63 and 606.

The fixing of the precise date depends on two considerations: (1)
whether the allusion to Thebes in iii. 8-10 implies that its capture
was very recent, and (2) whether we must suppose that the prophecy
was inspired by a definite historical situation. It is usually felt
that the reference to Thebes implies that the memory of its capture
is fresh, and that the prophecy must stand very near it--not later
perhaps than 650; and just about this time there was a Babylonian
rebellion against Assyria. This date must be regarded as by no means
impossible. On the whole, however, a later date appears to be
distinctly more probable The last few verses, iii. 12f., 18f., imply
the thorough weakness, disorganization and impending dissolution of
the Assyrian empire, and so early a date as 650 hardly meets the
case. We must apparently come down to the time when the fate of
Nineveh was obviously inevitable and her conqueror was on the way,
ii. 1. Probably Marti is not far from the truth in suggesting 610
B.C. The reference to Thebes is intelligible even at this later
date, when we remember that the capture of so strong a city, already
famous in Homer's time, must have left an indelible impression on
the mind of Western Asia. It is no doubt abstractly possible that
the prophecy is not intimately connected with any historical
situation, and therefore might be much earlier; but to say nothing
of the concreteness of the detail, such a supposition would be
altogether contrary to the analogy of Hebrew prophecy. When Jehovah
reveals His secret to the prophets, it is because He is about to do
something (Amos iii. 7).

The concreteness of detail just alluded to is characteristic only of
the second and third chapters. Ch. i., however, is confessedly
vague, and moves for the most part along the familiar lines of
theophanic descriptions. It is not plain in i. (cf. ii. 8) who are
the enemies to be destroyed, as i. 1 is probably a later addition.
Further, as far as _v_. 10 the prophecy is alphabetic: this
circumstance has given rise to the view that i., ii. 2 originally
formed a complete alphabetic psalm whose second half has either been
worked over, or displaced by i. 11-15, ii. 2, the object of the
psalm being to present a general picture of the judgment into which
the particular doom of Nineveh is fitted, and to give the prophecy a
theological complexion which it appeared to need. The acknowledged
vagueness of the chapter and the demonstrably alphabetic nature of
at least part of it, certainly render its authenticity very
doubtful.

The theological interest of Nahum is great. It is the first prophecy
dealing exclusively with the enemies of Judah. There is a hint of
the sin of Nineveh, but little more than a hint, iii. 1, 4; she is
the enemy and oppressor of Judah, and that is enough to justify her
doom. Whether we accept the earlier or the later date for the
prophecy, the reign of Manasseh or that of Josiah, the moral
condition of Judah herself was deplorable enough, and so clear-eyed
a prophet as Jeremiah saw that her doom was inevitable. Nahum
probably represents the sentiment of narrowly patriotic party, which
regarded Jerusalem as inviolable, and Jehovah as a jealous God ready
to take vengeance upon the enemies of Judah.




HABAKKUK


The precise interpretation of the book of Habakkuk presents unusual
difficulties; but, brief and difficult as it is, it is clear that
Habakkuk was a great prophet, of earnest, candid soul, and he has
left us one of the noblest and most penetrating words in the history
of religion, ii. 4_b_. The prophecy may be placed about the
year 600 B.C. The Assyrian empire had fallen, and by the battle of
Carchemish in 605 B.C., Babylonian supremacy was practically
established over Western Asia. Josiah's reformation, whose effects
had been transient and superficial, lay more than twenty years
behind. The reckless Jehoiakim was upon the throne of Judah, a king
who regarded neither the claims of justice (Jer. xxii. 13-19) nor
the words of the prophet (Jer. xxxvi. 23), and his rebellion drew
upon him and his land the terrible vengeance of Babylon, first in
601 B.C., then in 597.

The prophet begins by asking his God how long the lamentable
disorder and wrong are to continue, i. 1-4. For answer, he is
assured that the Chaldeans are to be raised up in chastisement, who,
with their terrible army, will mockingly defy every attempt to check
their advance, i. 5-11, But in i. 12-17 the prophet appears to be
confounded by their impiety; they have been guilty of barbarous
cruelty--how can Jehovah reconcile this with His own holiness and
purity? The prophet finds the answer to his question when he climbs
his tower of faith; there he learns that the proud shall perish and
the righteous live. The solution may be long delayed, but faith sees
and grasps it already: "The just shall live by his faithfulness,"
ii. 1-4. Then follows a series of woes, ii. 5-20, which expand the
thought of ii. 4_a_--the sure destruction of the proud. Woes
are denounced upon the cruel rapacity of the conquerors, their
unjust accumulation of treasure, their futile ambitions, their
unfeeling treatment of the land, beasts and people, and finally
their idolatry. In contrast to the stupid and impotent gods
worshipped by the oppressor is the great God of Israel, whose temple
is in the heavens, and before whom the earth is summoned to silence,
ii. 20. For He is on His way to take vengeance upon the enemies of
His people, as He did in the ancient days of the exodus, when He
came in the terrors of the storm and overthrew the Egyptians. His
coming is described in terms of older theophanies (Jud. v., Deut.
xxxiii.); and this "prayer," as it is called in the superscription,
concludes with an expression of unbounded confidence and joy in
Jehovah, even when all customary and visible signs of His love fail
(iii.).

Simple and coherent as this sequence seems to be, it is, in reality,
on closer inspection, very perplexing. Ch. i. 1-4 reveals a picture
of confusion within Judah, but it is impossible to say whether it is
foreigners who are oppressing Judah as a whole, or powerful classes
within Judah itself that are oppressing the poor. Perhaps the latter
is the more natural interpretation. In that case, the Chaldeans are
raised up to chastise the native oppressor, i. 5-11. This section,
however, has fresh difficulties of its own; _vv_. 5, 6 suggest
that the Chaldeans are not yet known to be a formidable power, they
are only about to be raised up, _v_. 6, and what they will do
is as yet incredible, _v_. 5. The minute description which
follows, however, looks as if their military appearance and methods
were thoroughly familiar. Assuming that i. 12-17 is the continuation
of i. 5-ll--and the descriptions are very similar--the Chaldeans,
whose coming was the answer to the prophet's prayer, now constitute
a fresh problem; they swallow up those who are more righteous than
themselves, _v_. 13, i.e. Judah. It cannot be denied that such
a characterization of Judah sounds strange after the charge levelled
at her in i. 1-4, unless we assume an interval of time between the
sections, or at least that in i. 12-17, Judah is regarded as
relatively righteous, i.e. in comparison with the Chaldeans.

The situation is further complicated by the very close resemblance
that prevails between i. 1-4 and i. 12-17. The very same words for
_righteous_ and _wicked_ occur in i. 13 as in i. 4; do they
or do they not designate the same persons? If they do, then, as in
i. 12-17, the wicked oppressor is almost certainly the Chaldean and
the righteous is Judah, and we shall have to interpret the confusion
pictured in i. 2-4 as due to the Chaldean suzerainty, and perhaps to
assign the section to a period after the first capture of Jerusalem
in 597 B.C. In that case, as it is obvious that the Chaldeans could
not be raised up to execute divine judgment upon themselves, the
section, i. 5-11, would have to be regarded as an independent piece,
whether Habakkuk's or not, announcing the rise of the Chaldeans, and
not inappropriately placed here, considering that the sections on both
sides of it have the Chaldeans for their theme. On the other hand,
however, it may be urged that the identification of the righteous and
wicked in i. 13 with i. 4, though natural,[1] is not necessary; and by
denying it the prophecy becomes distinctly more coherent. The wrong done
by Judah, i. 1-4, is avenged by the coming of the Chaldeans, i. 5-11;
they, however, having overstepped the limits of their divine commission,
only aggravate the prophet's problem, i. 12-17, and he finally finds the
solution on his watch-tower, in the assurance that somehow, despite all
 seeming delay, the purpose of God is hastening on to its fulfilment, and
that the moral constitution of the world is such as to spell the ultimate
ruin of cruelty and pride and the ultimate triumph of righteousness,
ii. 1-4. His faith was historically justified by the fall of the
Babylonian empire in 538 B.C.
[Footnote 1: Some scholars feel so strongly that the historical
background of i. 1-4 and i. 12-17 is the same, that they regard the
latter section as the direct continuation of the former. Budde,
followed by Cornill, ingeniously supposes that the oppressor in
these two sections is the Assyrian (about 615 B.C.), and it is this
power that the Chaldeans, i. 5-11, are raised up to chastise. These
scholars put i. 5-11 after ii. 4 as a historical amplification of
its moral and more indefinite statement. But the strength of
Habakkuk rather seems to lie in this, that he abandons the immediate
historical solution, i. 5, and is content with the moral one, ii. 4,
though no doubt he believes that the moral solution will realize
itself in history.]

The authenticity[1] of some of the woes in ch. ii. may be contested,
e.g. _vv._ 12-14, which appears to be a partial reproduction of
Jer. li. 58, Isa. xi. 9. It is very improbable that ch. iii. is
Habakkuk's: it is not even certain that the poem is a unity. The
situation in _vv._ 17-19 (especially _v._ 17) seems
different from that in the rest of the chapter: there an enemy was
feared, here rather infertility. Again the general temper of the ode
is hardly that of ii. 3, 4. There the vision was to be delayed, here
the interposition seems to be impatiently awaited and expected soon.
If "thine anointed" in iii. 13 refers to the people--and the
parallelism makes this almost certain--then the days of the monarchy
are over and the poem cannot be earlier than the exile. Probably, as
the superscription, subscription, and threefold _Selah_
suggest, we have here a post-exilic psalm. The psalm, however, is
fittingly enough associated with the prophecy of Habakkuk. Its
belief in the accomplishment of the divine purpose and its emphasis
on a faith independent of the things of sight, are akin in spirit,
though not in form to ii. 4.
[Footnote 1: Marti explains the book thus: (_a_) i. 2-4,
12_a_, 13, ii. 1-4, a psalm, belonging to the fifth or perhaps
the second century, giving the divine answer to the plaint that
judgment is delayed; (_b_) i. 5-11, 12_b_, 14-17, a
prophecy about 605 B.C. dealing with the effect of the battle of
Carchemish; (_c_) ii. 5-19, the woes: about 540, when the
Chaldean empire is nearing its end; (_d_) iii., a post-exilic
psalm.]

Patience and faith are the watch-words of Habakkuk, ii. 3, 4. There
was a time when he had expected an adequate historical solution to
his doubts in his own day, i. 5; but, as he contemplates the immoral
progress of the Chaldeans, he recognizes his difficulty to be only
aggravated by this solution, and he is content to commit the future
to God. He is comforted and strengthened by a larger vision of the
divine purpose and its inevitable triumph--if not now, then
hereafter. "Though it tarry, wait for it, for it is sure to come, it
will not lag behind." That purpose wills the triumph of justice, and
though the righteous may seem to perish, in reality he lives, and
shall continue to live, by his faithfulness.




ZEPHANIAH


If the Hezekiah who was Zephaniah's great-great-grandfather, i. 1,
was, as is probable, the king of that name, then Zephaniah was a
prince as well as a prophet, and this may lend some point to his
denunciation of the princes who imitated foreign customs, i. 8. He
prophesied in the reign of Josiah, i. 1, and the fact that he censures
not the king but the king's children, i. 8, points to the period when
Josiah was still a minor (about or before 626 B.C.). With this
coincides his description of the moral and religious condition of
Judah, which necessitates a date prior to the reformation in 621.
Idolatry, star-worship and impure Jehovah-worship are rampant,
i. 4, 5, 9. The rich are easy-going and indifferent to religion,
supposing that God will leave the world to itself, i. 12. The people
of Jerusalem are incorrigible, iii. 2, reckless of the lessons that
God has written in nature and history, iii. 5ff.; their leaders--princes,
prophets, priests--are immoral or incompetent. The prophecy may be
placed between 630 and 626, and the prophet must have been a young man.

To this idolatrous and indifferent people he announces the speedy
coming of the day of Jehovah, whose terrors he describes with a
certain solemn grandeur (i.). The judgment is practically
inevitable, i. 18, but it may perhaps yet be averted by an earnest
quest of Jehovah, ii, 1-3. That judgment will sweep along the coast
through the Philistine country, ii. 4-7, and on to Egypt, and
afterwards turn northwards and utterly destroy Assyria with her
great capital Nineveh, ii. 12-15. Again the prophet turns to
Jerusalem, and for the sins of her people and their leaders
proclaims a general day of judgment, from which, however, the humble
will be saved, iii. 1-13 (except _vv_. 9, 10.). The book ends
with a fine vision of the latter days, when the dispersed of Judah
will be restored to their own land, and rejoice in the omnipotent
love of their God, iii. 14-20.

The prophecy presents a very impressive picture of the day of Jehovah,
but it cannot all be from the pen of Zephaniah. Besides adopting a
very different attitude towards Jerusalem from the rest of the prophecy,
iii. 14-20 clearly presupposes the exile, _v_. 19, towards the end
of which it was probably written. Ch. ii. 11, iii. 9, 10, containing
ideas which are hardly earlier than Deutero-Isaiah, are also probably
exilic or post-exilic. The oracle against Moab and Ammon, ii. 8-10,
countries which lay off the line of the Scythian march southwards from
Philistia, _v_. 7, to Egypt, _v_. 12, are for linguistic,
contextual, and other reasons, also probably late.

Prophecy has practically always an historical occasion, and the
thought of the black and terrible day of Jehovah was no doubt
suggested to Zephaniah by the formidable bands of roving Scythians
which scoured Western Asia about this time, sweeping all before them
(Hdt. i. 105). They do not seem to have touched Judah; but it is not
surprising that men like Jeremiah and Zephaniah should have regarded
them as divinely ordained ministers of vengeance upon Jehovah's
degenerate people.




HAGGAI


The post-exilic age sharply distinguished itself from the pre-exilic
(Zech. i. 4), and nowhere is the difference more obvious than in
prophecy. Post-exilic prophecy has little of the literary or moral
power of earlier prophecy, but it would be very easy to do less than
justice to Haggai. His prophecy is very short; into two chapters is
condensed a summary, probably not even in his own words, of no less
than four addresses. Meagre as they may seem to us, they produced a
great effect on those who heard them.

The addresses were delivered between September and December in the
year 520 B.C. The people were suffering from a drought, and in the
first address, i. 1-11, Haggai interprets this as a penalty for
their indifference to religion--in particular, for their neglect to
build the temple. The effect of the appeal was that three weeks
afterwards a beginning was made upon the building, i. 12-15. The
people, however, seem to be discouraged by the scantiness of their
resources, and a month afterwards Haggai has to appeal to them
again, reminding them that with the silver and the gold, which are
His, Jehovah will soon make the new temple more glorious than the
old, ii. 1-9. Two months later the prophet again reminds them that,
as their former unholy indifference had infected all their life with
failure, so loyal devotion to the work now would ensure success and
blessing, ii. 10-19; and on the same day Haggai assures Zerubbabel a
unique place in the Messianic kingdom which is soon to be ushered
in, ii. 20-23.

The appeals of Haggai and Zechariah were successful (Ezra v. 1, vi.
14), and within four years the temple was rebuilt (Ezra vi. 15). It
was now the centre of national life, and therefore also of prophetic
interest. Haggai was probably not himself a priest, but in so short
a prophecy his elaborate allusion to ritual is very significant, ii.
11ff. This prophecy, like pre-exilic prophecy, was no doubt
conditioned by the historical situation. The allusion to the shaking
of the world in ii. 7, 22, appears to be a reflection of the
insurrections which broke out all over the Persian empire on the
accession of Darius to the throne in 521 B.C.; and probably the Jews
were encouraged by the general commotion to make a bold bid for the
re-establishment of an independent national life. That they
cherished the ambition of being once more a political as well as a
religious force, seems to be suggested by the frequency with which
Haggai links the name of Zerubbabel, of the royal line of Judah,
with that of Joshua the high priest; and, in particular, by the
extraordinary language applied to him--in ii. 23 he is the elect of
Jehovah, His servant and signet. Clearly he is to be king in the
Messianic kingdom which is to issue out of the convulsion of the
world.

It cannot be safely inferred from ii. 3 that Haggai was among those
who had seen the temple of Solomon and was therefore a very old man.
Simple as are his words, his faith is strong and his hope very bold.
Considering the meagre resources of the post-exilic community, it is
touching to note the confidence with which he assures the people
that Jehovah will bring together the treasures of the world to make
His temple glorious.




ZECHARIAH


CHAPTERS I-VIII

Two months after Haggai had delivered his first address to the
people in 520 B.C., and a little over a month after the building of
the temple had begun (Hag. i. 15), Zechariah appeared with another
message of encouragement. How much it was needed we see from the
popular despondency reflected in Hag. ii. 3, Jerusalem is still
disconsolate (Zech. i. 17), there has been fasting and mourning,
vii. 5, the city is without walls, ii. 5, the population scanty, ii.
4, and most of the people are middle-aged, few old or young, viii.
4, 5. The message they need is one of consolation and encouragement,
and that is precisely the message that Zechariah brings: "I have
determined in these days to do good to Jerusalem and to the house of
Judah; fear not," viii. 15.

The message of Zechariah comes in the peculiar form of visions, some
of them resting apparently on Babylonian art, and not always easy to
interpret. After an earnest call to repentance, i. 1-6, the visions
begin, i. 7-vi. 8. In the first vision, i. 7-17, the earth, which
has been troubled, is at rest; the advent of the Messianic age may
therefore be expected soon. The divine promise is given that
Jerusalem shall be graciously dealt with and the temple rebuilt. The
second is a vision, i. 18-21, of the annihilation of the heathen
world represented by four horns. The third vision (ii.)--that of a
young man with a measuring-rod--announces that Jerusalem will be
wide and populous, the exiles will return to it, and Jehovah will
make His abode there.

These first three visions have to do, in the main, with the city and
the people; the next two deal more specifically with the leaders of
the restored community on its civil and religious side, Zerubbabel
the prince and Joshua the priest. In the fourth vision (iii.) Joshua
is accused by the Adversary and the accuser is rebuked--symbolic
picture of the misery of the community and its imminent redemption.
Joshua is to have full charge of the temple, and he and his priests
are the guarantee that the Branch, i.e. the Messianic king (Jer.
xxiii. 5, xxxiii, 15), no doubt Zerubbabel (Zech, iii. 8, vi. 12;
Hag. ii. 23), is coming. In the fifth vision (iv.)[1] the prophet
sees a lampstand with seven lamps and an olive tree on either side,
the trees representing the two anointed leaders, Zerubbabel and
Joshua, enjoying the divine protection.
[Footnote 1: Except vv. 6b-10a, which appears to be a special
assurance, hardly here in place, that Zerubbabel would finish the
temple which he had begun.]

The next two visions elaborate the promise of iii. 9: "I will remove
the iniquity of that land,"--and indicate the removal of all that
taints the land of Judah, alike sin and sinners. The flying roll of
the sixth vision, v. 1-4, carries the curse that will fall upon
thieves and perjurers; and in the somewhat grotesque figure of the
seventh vision, v. 5-11, Sin is personified as a woman and borne
away in a closed cask by two women with wings like storks, to the
land of Shinar, i.e. Babylon, there to work upon the enemy of Judah
the ruin she has worked for Judah herself. In the last vision, vi.
1-8, which is correlate with the first--four chariots issuing from
between two mountains of brass--the divine judgment is represented
as being executed upon the north country, i.e. the country opposed
to God, and particularly Babylonia.

The cumulative effect of the visions is very great. All that hinders
the coming of the Messianic days is to be removed, whether it be the
great alien world powers or the sinners within Jerusalem itself. The
purified city will be blessed with prosperity of every kind, and
over her civil and religious affairs will be two leaders, who enjoy
a unique measure of the divine favour. In an appendix to the visions
vi. 9-15, Zechariah is divinely commissioned to make a crown for
Zerubbabel (or for him and Joshua)[1] out of the gold and silver
brought by emissaries of the Babylonian Jews, and the hope is
expressed that peace will prevail between the leaders--a hope
through which we may perhaps read a growing rivalry.
[Footnote 1: It seems practically certain that the original prophecy
in _v_. 11 has been subsequently modified, doubtless because it
was not fulfilled. The last clause of _v_. 13--"the counsel of
peace shall be between them _both"_--shows that two persons
have just been mentioned. The preceding clause must therefore be
translated, not as in A. V. and R. V., "and _he_ shall be a
priest upon his throne," as if the office of king and priest were to
be combined in a single person, but "and _there_ shall be" (or,
as Wellhausen suggests, "and _Joshua_ shall be") "a priest upon
his throne," (or no doubt more correctly, with the Septuagint, "a
priest _at his right hand_"). As two persons are involved, and
the word "crowns" in v. 11 is in the plural, it has been supposed
that the verse originally read, "set the crowns _upon the head of
Zerubbabel and_ upon the head of Joshua." On the other hand, in
_v_. 14 the word "crown" must be read in the singular, and
should probably also be so read in _v_. 11 (though even the
plural could refer to one crown). In that case, if there be but one
crown, who wears it? Undoubtedly Zerubbabel: he is the Branch, iii.
8, and the Branch is the Davidic king (Jer. xxiii. 5, xxxiii. 15).
The building of the temple here assigned to the Branch, vi. 12, is
elsewhere expressly assigned to Zerubbabel, iv. 9. It is, therefore,
he who is crowned: in other words, v. 11, may have originally read,
"set it _upon the head of Zerubbabel._" Whether we accept this
solution or the other, it seems certain that the original prophecy
contemplated the crowning of Zerubbabel. As the hopes that centred
upon Zerubbabel were never fulfilled, the passage was subsequently
modified to its present form.]

The concluding chapters of the prophecy (vii., viii.), delivered two
years later than the rest of the book, vii. 1, are occupied with the
ethical conditions of the impending Messianic kingdom. To the
question whether the fast-days which commemorated the destruction of
Jerusalem are still to be observed, Zechariah answers that the
ancient demands of Jehovah had nothing to do with fasting, but with
justice and mercy. As former disobedience had been followed by a
divine judgment, so would obedience now be rewarded with blessing,
fast-days would be turned into days of joy and gladness, and the
blessing would be so great that representatives of every nation
would be attracted to Jerusalem, to worship the God of the Jews.

In Zechariah even more than in Haggai it is clear that prophecy has
entered upon a new stage.[1] There is the same concentration of
interest upon the temple, the same faith in the unique importance of
Zerubbabel. But the apocalyptic element, though not quite a new
thing, is present on a scale altogether new to prophecy. Again, the
transcendence of God is acutely felt--the visions have to be
interpreted by an angel. We see, too, in the book the rise of the
idea of Satan (iii.) and of the conception of sin as an independent
force, v. 5-11. The yearning for the annihilation of the kingdoms
opposed to Judah, i. 18-21, has a fine counterpart in the closing
vision, viii. 22, 23, of the nations flocking to Jerusalem because
they have heard that God is there. The book is of great historical
value, affording as it does contemporary evidence of the drooping
hopes of the early post-exilic community, and of the new manner in
which this disappointment was met by prophecy. But, though Zechariah's
message was largely concerned with the building of the temple, and
was delivered for the most part in terms of vision and apocalyptic,
the ethical elements on which the "former prophets" had laid the
supreme emphasis, were by no means forgotten, viii. 16, 17.
[Footnote 1: Zechariah himself is conscious of the distinction, which
is more than a temporal one, between himself and the pre-exilic
prophets: notice the manner of his allusion to the "former prophets,"
i. 4, vii. 7, 12.]


CHAPTERS IX.-XIV.

Practically all the distinctive features of the first eight chapters
disappear in ix.-xiv. The style and the historical presuppositions
are altogether different. There are two new superscriptions, ix. 1,
xii. 1, but there is no reference to Zerubbabel, Joshua, or the
situation of their time. There the immediate problem was the
building of the temple; here, more than once, Jerusalem is
represented as in a state of siege. A sketch of the contents will
show how unlike the one situation is to the other.

The general theme of ix. 1-xi. 3 is the destruction of the world-powers
and the establishment of the kingdom of God. Judgment is declared at
the outset upon Damascus, Phoenicia and Philistia, while Jerusalem is
to enjoy the divine protection and to be the seat of the Messianic King,
ix. 1-9. Greece, the great enemy, will be overcome by Judah and Ephraim,
who are but weapons in Jehovah's hand, ix. 10-17. Then follows[1] a
passage in which "the shepherds" are threatened with a dire fate. Judah
receives a promise of victory, and Ephraim is assured that her exiles
will be gathered and brought home from Egypt and Assyria to Gilead and
Lebanon; the cedars of Lebanon and the oaks of Bashan--types perhaps of
foreign rulers--will be laid low, x. 3-xi. 3.
[Footnote 1: Ch. x. 1, 2 appears to stand by itself. It is an
injunction to bring the request for rain to Jehovah and to put no
faith in teraphim and diviners.]

The next section is of a different kind. In it the prophet is
divinely commissioned to tend the flock which has been neglected and
impoverished by other shepherds. To this end he takes two staves,
named Favour and Unity, to indicate respectively the favour enjoyed
by Judah in her relations with her neighbours, and the unity
subsisting between her and Israel (or Jerusalem, according to two
codices); and thus invested with the instruments of the pastoral
office he destroyed three shepherds in a short time. But the flock
grew tired of him, and, in consequence he broke the staves, i.e. the
relations of favour and unity were ruptured. A foolish and careless
shepherd is then raised up, who abuses the flock, and over him a woe
is pronounced, xi. 4-17, more minutely defined in xiii. 7-9, which
appears to have been misplaced. Jehovah will slay the shepherd and
scatter the sheep; a third of the flock after being purified by fire
will constitute the people of Jehovah.

The next section, xii. 1-xiii. 6, introduces us to a siege of
Jerusalem by the heathen, abetted by Judah. Suddenly, however, Judah
changes sides; by the help of Jehovah they destroy the heathen, and
Jerusalem is saved, xii. 1-8. Then the people and their leaders are
moved by the outpouring of the spirit to confess and entreat
forgiveness for some judicial murder which they have committed and
which they publicly and bitterly lament, xii. 9-14. The prayer is
answered; people and leaders are cleansed in a fountain opened, with
the result that idolatry and prophecy of the ancient public type are
abjured, xiii. 1-6.

The theme of the last section also (xiv.) is a heathen attack upon
Jerusalem, but this time the city is destroyed and half the
inhabitants exiled. Then Jehovah intervenes, and by a miracle upon
the Mount of Olives the rest of the people effect their escape, and
Jehovah Fights with all His angels against the heathen. Those
glorious Messianic days, when Jehovah will be King over all the
earth, will know no heat or cold, or change from light to darkness.
Jerusalem will be secure and the land about her level and fruitful,
watered east and west by a living stream. Those who have made war
against her will waste away, while the rest of the world will make
pilgrimages to the holy city to worship Jehovah and celebrate the
feast of booths. Then the mighty war-horses, once the object of His
hatred, will be consecrated to His service, and the number of
pilgrims will be so great that every pot in the city and in the
province of Judah will be needed for ceremonial purposes.

Few problems in the Old Testament are more perplexing than that of the
origin and relation of the sections composing, ix.-xiv. to one another.
The utmost that can be said with comparative certainty is that the
prophecy, in its present form, is post-exilic, while certain elements
in it, especially in ix.-xi., are, if not pre-exilic, at any rate
imitations or reminiscences of pre-exilic prophecy. Many scholars even
deny that ix.-xiv. is a unity and assign it to at least two authors.
Though the superscription in xii. 1, which seems to justify this
distinction, was probably added, like Malachi i. i, by a later hand,
the presence of certain broad distinctions between ix.-xi. and
xii.-xiv. can hardly be denied. In the former section, Ephraim is
occasionally mentioned in combination with Judah, cf. ix. 13; in the
latter, Judah alone is mentioned, and partly, on the strength of this,
the former section is assigned to a period between Tiglath Pileser's
invasion of the north of Palestine in 734 (xi. 1-3) and the fall of the
northern kingdom in 721, while the latter is assigned to a period between
the death of Josiah in 609, to which the mourning in Megiddo is supposed
to allude, xii. 11, and the fall of the southern kingdom in 586.

Even within these sections there are differences which are held to
be incompatible with the unity of each section. The most notable
difference is perhaps that affecting the siege of Jerusalem. In ch.
xii. the heathen are destroyed before Jerusalem, while the city
itself remains secure; in ch. xiv. the houses are rifled, the women
ravished, and half of the people go into captivity before Jehovah
intervenes to protect the remainder. These and other differences are
unmistakable, yet it may be questioned whether they are so serious
as to be fatal to the unity of the whole section, ix.-xiv. It is not
impossible that they may be due to the eclectic spirit of an author
who gathered from many quarters material for his eschatological
pictures. Besides, the sections which have been by some scholars
relegated to different authors, occasionally seem to imply each
other. The general assault on Jerusalem in ch. xii., e.g., is the
natural result of the breaking of the staves, Favour and Unity, in
ch. xi. But, even if ix.-xiv. be a unity, it is well to remember, as
Cornill reminds us, that there is "much in these chapters which will
ever remain obscure and unintelligible, because our knowledge of the
whole post-exilic and especially of the early Hellenic period is
extremely deficient."

This leads to the question of date. The last section (xii.-xiv.) at
any rate is obviously post-exilic. The idea of the general assault
on Jerusalem is undoubtedly suggested by Ezekiel xxxviii.; the
curiously condemnatory attitude to prophecy in xiii. 2-6 would have
been impossible in pre-exilic times; the phrase, "Uzziah _king of
Judah_," xiv. 5, rather implies that the dynasty is past, and the
reference to the earthquake in his reign has the flavour of a
learned reminiscence.[1] These and other circumstances practically
necessitate a post-exilic date, and the objection based upon xii. 11
falls to the ground, as that verse alludes, in all probability, not
to lamentations for the death of Josiah, which would no doubt have
taken place in Jerusalem, but to laments which accompanied the
worship of the Semitic Adonis. Nor can any objection be grounded
upon the allusion to idolatry in xiii. 2, as idolatry persisted into
post-exilic times.[2]
[Footnote 1: Even if the earliest possible date (about 600) for this
section be accepted, the earthquake had taken place a century and a
half before.]
[Footnote 2: Cf. Job xxxi. 2eff. and perhaps also Ps. xvi.]

If ix.-xiv. be a unity, a definite _terminus a quo_ is provided
in ix. 13 by the mention of the Greeks, whose sons are opposed to
the sons of Zion. Such a relation of Jews to Greeks is not
conceivable before the time of Alexander the Great, and this fact
alone would throw the prophecy, at the earliest, into the fourth
century B.C. But there are other facts which seem to some to make
for a pre-exilic date: e.g. the mention of Judah and Ephraim
together, ix. 13 (cf. ix. 10), seems to presuppose the existence of
both kingdoms, and Egypt and Assyria are placed side by side, x. 10,
11, precisely in the manner of Hosea (ix. 3, xi. 5). But these
facts, significant as they may seem, are by no means decisive in
favour of a pre-exilic date. Assyria was the first great world power
with which Israel came into hostile contact, and the name was not
unnaturally transferred by later ages to the hostile powers of their
own day--to Babylon in Lam. v. 6, to Persia in Ezra vi. 22, and
possibly to Syria in Isaiah xxvii. 13. Consequently, in a context
which assigns the passage, at the earliest, to the Greek period,
Assyria and Egypt would very naturally designate the Seleucid and
Ptolemaic kingdoms respectively, and the prophecy might be safely
relegated to the third century, B.C.[1] The allusion to Ephraim is
not incompatible with this date, for the prophecy presupposes a
general dispersion, x. 9, which must be later than the fall of Judah
in 586, considering that residence in Egypt, x. 10, is implied (cf.
Jer. xlii.-xliv.). Nothing more need be implied by the allusion to
Ephraim than that there will be a general restoration of all the
tribes that were once driven into exile and are now scattered
throughout the world.
[Footnote 1: Marti puts it as late as 160. One of the most important
clues would be furnished by xi. 8--"I cut off the three shepherds in
one month"--if the reference were not so cryptic. Advocates of a
pre-exilic date find in the words an allusion to three successors of
Jeroboam II. of Israel--Zechariah, Shallum and some unknown
pretender (about 740); others, to the rapid succession of high
priests before the Maccabean wars (about 170). One month probably
signifies generally a brief time.]

If chs. ix.-xiv. belong to the third century B.C., they give us an
interesting glimpse into the aspirations and defects of later Judaism.
They reveal an unbounded faith in the importance of Jerusalem, and in
the certainty of its triumph over the assaults of heathenism; on the
other hand, they are inspired by a fine universalism, xiv. 16ff. But
this universalism has a distinctly Levitical and legalistic colouring,
xiv. 21. Membership in the kingdom of God involves abstinence from
food proscribed by the Levitical law, ix. 7; and even for the heathen
the worship of Jehovah takes the form of the celebration of the feast
of booths, xiv. 16. There is in the prophecy a noble appreciation of the
world-wide destiny of the true religion, but hardly of its essentially
spiritual nature.




MALACHI


It is not inappropriate that Malachi,[1] though not the latest of
the prophets, should close the prophetic collection. The concluding
words of this book, which predict the coming of the great prophet
Elijah, iv. 5f, and the apocalyptic tone of Malachi, show that
prophecy feels itself unable to cope adequately with the moral
situation and is conscious of its own decline. Here, as in Haggai,
interest gathers round ritual rather than moral obligation, though
the latter is not neglected, iii. 5, and the religion for which
Malachi pleads is far from being exhausted by ritual. He takes a
lofty view, approaching to Jesus' own, of the obligations of the
marriage relation, ii. 16; and perfunctory ritual he abhors, chiefly
because it expresses a deep-seated indifference to God and His
claims, iii. 8. The clergy or the laity who offer God their lame or
blemished beasts are guilty of an offence that goes deeper than
ritual. Their whole ideal of religion and service is insulting; they
have forgotten that Jehovah is "a great King," i. 14.
[Footnote 1: Ch. i. 1 is late, modelled, like Zech. xii. 1 on Zech.
ix. 1. The word Malachi has no doubt been suggested by
_Malachi_ in iii. i (= my messenger). The prophecy is really
anonymous.]

The prophecy of Malachi is closely knit together. Addressing a people
who doubt the love of their God, he begins by pointing-strangely
enough from the Christian standpoint, but intelligibly enough from
that of early post-exilic Judaism--to the desolation of Edom, Judah's
enemy (cf. Obadiah) in poof of that love, i. 2-5; and asks how Judah
has responded to it. The priests present inferior offerings, thus
forming, in their insulting indifference, a strange contrast to the
untutored heathen hearts all the world over, which offer God pure
service; they have put to shame the ancient ideals, i. 6-ii. 9. The
people, too, are as guilty as the priests; for they had divorced
their faithful Jewish wives who had borne them children, and married
foreign women who were a menace to the purity of the national religion,
ii. 10-16. Those who are beginning to doubt the moral order because
Jehovah does not manifestly interpose as the God of justice, are
assured by the prophet that the Lord, preceded by a messenger, is on
His way; and He will punish, first the unfaithful priests, and then
the unfaithful people, ii. 17-iii. 5. His apparent indifference to the
people is due to their real indifference to Him; if they bring in the
tithes, the blessing will come, iii. 6-12. As before, ii. 17ff., the
despondent are assured that Jehovah has not forgotten them; He is
writing their names in a book, and when He comes in judgment, the
faithful will be spared, and then the difference between the destinies
of the good and the bad will be plain for all to see. The wicked shall
be trampled under foot, and upon the dark world in which the upright
mourn shall arise the sun, from whose gentle rays will stream healing
for bruised minds and hearts, iii. 13-iv. 4. Before that day Elijah
will come to heal the dissensions of the home, iv. 5, 6. (cf. ii. 14).

The atmosphere of the book of Malachi is very much like that of
Ezra-Nehemiah. The same problems emerge in both--foreign marriages,
neglect of payment of tithes, etc. But the allusion to the presents
given the governor, i. 8, shows that the book was not written during
the governorship of Nehemiah, who claims to have accepted no
presents (Neh. v. 14-18). On the other hand, the state of affairs
presented by the book is inconceivable after the measures adopted by
Ezra and Nehemiah; therefore, Malachi must precede them. Probably
however, not by much; it was Malachi and others like-minded who
prepared the way for the reformation, and his date may be roughly
fixed at 460-450 B.C. Consistently with this, the priests are
designated Levites, ii. 4, iii. 3, as in Deuteronomy; the book must
therefore precede the priestly code which sharply distinguishes
priests and Levites.

There is an unusual proportion of dialogue in Malachi. Good men are
perplexed by the anomalies of the moral order, and they are not
afraid to debate them. Malachi's solution is largely, though not
exclusively, iii. 8-12, apocalyptic; and though in this, as in his
emphasis on the cult, iii. 4, and his attitude to Edom, i. 2ff., he
stands upon the level of ordinary Judaism, in other respects he
rises far above it. Coming from one to whom correct ritual meant so
much, his utterance touching heathen worship is not only
refreshingly, but astonishingly bold. In all the Old Testament,
there is no more generous outlook upon the foreign world than that
of i. 11. Though the priests of the temple at Jerusalem insult the
name of Jehovah and are wearied with His service, yet "from sunrise
to sunset My name is great among the (heathen) nations, and in every
place pure offerings are offered to My name; for great is My name
among the heathen, saith Jehovah of hosts."




PSALMS


The piety of the Old Testament Church is reflected with more
clearness and variety in the Psalter than in any other book of the
Old Testament. It constitutes the response of the Church to the
divine demands of prophecy, and, in a less degree, of law; or,
rather, it expresses those emotions and aspirations of the universal
heart which lie deeper than any formal demand. It is the speech of
the soul face to face with God. Its words are as simple and
unaffected as human words can be, for it is the genius of Hebrew
poetry to lay little stress upon artifices of rhyme and rhythm. By
its simple device of parallelism, it suggests a rhythm profounder
than the sound of any words--the response of thought to thought, the
calling of deep to deep, the solemn harmonies that run throughout
the universe. Whether the second thought of a verse is co-ordinate
with the first, as--

  Let us break their bands asunder,
  And cast away their cords from us, ii 3.

or contrasted with it, as--

  Jehovah knows the way of the righteous,
  But the way of the ungodly shall perish, i. 6,

the resulting parallelism is essentially simple, and the Hebrew poet
can express his profoundest thoughts and feelings with lucidity and
freedom. It is the depth and sincerity of its emotion, coupled with
this unrivalled simplicity of expression that has given the Psalter
its abiding-place in the religious history of humanity.

With the partial exception of Psalm xlv., which is a marriage song,
the songs of the Psalter are exclusively religious. Indeed most of
the poetry of the Old Testament is religious; the Song of Deborah,
e.g. (Jud. v.), or the Psalm of Hezekiah (Isa. xxxviii.). But, from
scattered hints it is abundantly plain that, especially before the
exile, Hebrew poetry must have ranged over a wide variety of themes.
So far as we know, the Hebrews never had an epic; and though a
certain epic power is occasionally suggested by the extant
literature, it may be doubted whether the Hebrew genius, which was
essentially lyrical, would have been capable of the long sustained
effort demanded by a great epic. But the lyrical genius of the
Hebrew found abundant opportunity in life's common joys, sorrows and
activities. Victories in battle were celebrated in ballads, which
made the blood leap, love songs were sung at weddings, and dirges
were chanted over the dead. The labour of drawing water, of reaping
the fields or gathering the vintage, was relieved by snatches of
song. There was all this and more, but it has nearly all perished,
leaving little more than an echo, because the men who compiled and
edited the Old Testament were dominated by an exclusively religious
interest.

But if the interest of the Psalter be exclusively religious, we have
no reason to complain of its variety. From the deepest despair to
the highest exaltation, every mood of the soul is uttered there.
Many a classification of the Psalter has been attempted, e.g. into
(_a_) psalms of gladness, such as thanksgiving (xlvi.),
adoration (viii.); (_b_) psalms of sadness, such as lamentation
(lxxiv.), confession (li.), supplication (cii.); (_c_) psalms
of reflection, such as the occasional didactic poetry (cxix.), or
discussions of the moral order (lxxiii.). But in the nature of the
case, no classification can ever hope to be completely satisfactory,
if for no other reason than that the psalms, being for the most part
lyrics, are often marked by subtle and rapid changes of feeling,
passing sometimes, as in Psalm xxii., from the most touching laments
to the most daring expressions of hope and gladness. The following
classification, though exposed, as all such classifications must be,
to the charge of cross-division, will afford a working basis for the
study of the Psalter:--

(1) Psalms of Adoration, including (_a_) adoration of God for
His revelation in nature, viii., xix. 1-6, xxix., civ.; (_b_)
adoration of Him for His love to His people, xxxiii., ciii., cxi.,
cxiii., cxv., cxvii., cxlvii.; (_c_) praise of His glorious
kingdom, cxlv., cxlvi., ending with the call to universal praise,
cxlviii., cl.

(2) Psalms of Reflection (_a_) upon the moral order of the
world, ix., x., xi., xiv., xxxvi., xxxvii., xxxix., xlix., lii.,
lxii., lxxiii., lxxv., lxxxii., xc., xcii., xciv.; (_b_) upon
Divine Providence, xvi., xxiii., xxxiv., xci., cxii., cxxi., cxxv.,
cxxvii., cxxviii., cxxxiii., cxxxix., cxliv. 12-15; (_c_) on
the value of Scripture, i., xix. 7-14, cxix.; (_d_) on the
nature of the ideal man, xv., xxiv. 1-6, l.

(3) Psalms of Thanksgiving, most of them for historical
deliverances, e.g. from the exile, or from the Syrians in the second
century B.C., xxx., xl., xlvi., xlviii., lxv., lxvi., lxvii.,
lxviii., lxxvi., cxvi., cxviii., cxxiv., cxxvi., cxxix., cxxxviii.,
cxliv. 1-11, cxlix.

(4) Psalms in Celebration of Worship, v., xxiv., 7-10, xxvi.,
xxvii., xlii.-xliii., lxxxiv., cxxii., cxxxiv.

(5) Historical Psalms (_a_) emphasizing the unfaithfulness of
the people, lxxviii., lxxxi., cvi.; (_b_) emphasizing the love
or power of God, cv., cxiv., cxxxv., cxxxvi.

(6) Imprecatory Psalms, lviii, lix., lxix., lxxxiii., cix., cxxxvii.

(7) Penitential Psalms, vi., xxxii., xxxviii., li., cii., cxxx.,
cxliii.

(8) Psalms of Petition (_a_) prayers for deliverance,
preservation or restoration, iii., iv., vii., xii., xiii., xvii.,
xxv., xxxi., xxxv., xli., xliv., liv., lv., lx., lxiv., lxxi.,
lxxiv., lxxvii., lxxix., lxxx., lxxxv., lxxxvi., lxxxviii., cxx.,
cxxiii., cxxxi., cxl., cxli., cxlii; (_b_) answered prayers,
xxii., xxviii., lvi., lvii.

(9) Royal Psalms (_a_) king's coronation, xxi.; (_b_)
marriage, xlv.; (_c_) prayers for his welfare and success, xx.,
lxi, lxiii.; (_d_) his character, lxxii., ci.; (_e_)
dominion, ii., xviii., cx.; (_f_) yearning for the Messianic
King, lxxxix., cxxxii.

(10) Psalms concerning the universal reign of Jehovah, i.e.
Messianic psalms in the largest sense of the word, xlvii., lxxxvii.,
xciii., xcv., xcvi., xcvii., xcviii., xcix., c.

The Psalter has plainly had a long history. In its present form it
obviously rests upon groups, which in turn rest upon individual
psalms, that are no doubt often far older than the groups in which
they stand. Like the Pentateuch, and perhaps in imitation of it, the
Psalter is divided into five books, whose close is indicated, in
each case, by a doxology (xli., lxxii., lxxxix., cvi.), except in
the case of the last psalm, which is itself a doxology (cl.). This
division appears to have been artificially effected. Psalm cvii.,
which starts the last book, goes naturally with cv. and cvi., which
close the fourth book; and the circumstance that the number of
psalms in the fourth book corresponds exactly with that of the
third, raises a strong suspicion that the break was deliberately
made at Psalm cvi. It is very probable, too, that the doxology at
the close of Psalm cvi. (cf. 1 Chron. xvi. 36), which differs
somewhat from the other doxologies, was originally intended as a
doxology to that psalm only, and not to indicate the close of the
book. In any case, the contents of books 4 and 5, which are very
largely liturgical, are so similar that they may be practically
considered as one book.

Books 2 and 3 may also be similarly regarded; for whereas in books
1, 4 and 5 the name of the divine Being is predominantly Jehovah, in
books 2 and 3 it is predominantly Elohim (God), and there can be no
doubt that these two books, at least as far as Ps. lxxxiii., have
been submitted to an Elohistic redaction. Psalm xiv., _e.g._,
reappears in the 2nd book as Psalm liii. in a form practically
identical, except for the name of God, which is Jehovah in the one
(xiv.) and Elohim in the other (liii.); the change is, therefore,
undoubtedly deliberate. This is also made plain by the presence of
such impossible phrases as "God, thy God," xlv. 7, 1. 7, instead of
the natural and familiar "Jehovah, thy God." Whatever the motive for
the choice of this divine name (Elohim) may be, it is so thoroughly
characteristic of books 2 and 3 that they may not unfairly be held
to constitute a group by themselves. In this way the Psalter falls
into three great groups--book I (i.-xli.), which is Jehovistic,
books 2 and 3 (xlii.-lxxxix.), which are Elohistic, and books 4 and
5 (xc.-cl.), which are Jehovistic..

These greater groups rest, however, upon other smaller ones, some formally
acknowledged, e.g. the so-called Psalms of Ascent or Pilgrim psalms
(cxx.-cxxxiv.), the Psalms of David, Psalms of the Korahites (xlii.-xlix.,
etc.), Psalms of Asaph (lxxiii.-lxxxiii., etc.), and others not so obvious
in a translation, e.g. the Hallelujah Psalms, cxi.-cxiii., cxlvi.-cl.
These groups must often have enjoyed an independent reputation as
groups, and even been invested with a certain canonical authority, for
occasionally the same psalm appears in two different groups (xiv.=liii.,
xl. 13-17=lxx., cviii.=lvii. 7-11 +lx. 6-12). Such repetition proves that
the final editors did not consider themselves at liberty to make any
change within the groups. The principle of the arrangement of individual
psalms within the group was probably not a scientific one: e.g. xxxiv.
and xxxv. seem to be placed together for no other reason than that both
refer to "the angel of Jehovah," xxxiv. 7, xxxv. 5. Sometimes a psalm
has been wrongly divided into two (cf. xlii., xliii., originally one
psalm) and occasionally two psalms have been united, usually for
reasons that are transparent (so perhaps xix., the revelation in the
heavens and the revelation in the Scriptures, and xxiv., the entrance
of Jehovah into His temple, and the essential conditions for the
entrance of man).

The original order of the groups themselves appears to have been
dislocated. Whoever added the subscription to Psalm lxxii. can hardly
have been aware of the eighteen psalms which, in the subsequent books
of the Psalter, are ascribed to David; nor is it natural to suppose
that the Asaphic (l.) and Korahitic psalms (xlii.-xlix.) stood in the
second book when that subscription was written. It is not improbable
that Psalms xlii.-l. originally belonged to the third book, along
with the Asaphic group, lxxiii.-lxxxiii., and that lxxii. 20, "The
prayers of David the son of Jesse are ended," was intended as the
subscription of all the Davidic psalms that had then been collected
(Book I, except Pss. i., ii., x., xxxiii., and book 2, Pss. li.-lxx.).[1]
The first two books originally represented a Davidic hymn-book; they
probably represent, as a whole, the oldest part of the Psalter.
[Footnote 1: Psalms i. and ii. were placed at the beginning as
prefatory to the whole Psalter. They deal with the two cardinal
points of Judaism--the law and the Messianic hope. Psalms ix. and x.
originally constituted _one_ alphabetic psalm, and xxxiii. is
ascribed to David in the Septuagint.]

The problem of the authorship of the Psalms is one of the thorniest
in the Old Testament. One hundred psalms are ascribed to definite
authors: one is ascribed to Moses (xc.), seventy-three to David, two
to Solomon (lxxvii., cxxvii.); and yet there are not a few scholars
who maintain that, so far from any psalm being Mosaic, or even
Davidic, there is not a single pre-exilic psalm in the Psalter, and
the less radical critics do not allow more than thirty or forty. The
question must be settled entirely upon internal evidence, as the
superscriptions, definite as they often are, are never demonstrably
reliable, while some of them are plainly impossible. To begin with,
doubt attaches to the meaning of the Hebrew preposition in the
phrase, "Psalm _of_ David." It is the same preposition as that
rendered by _for_ in the phrase, "For the chief musician," and
as in this phrase authorship is out of the question, it may be
seriously doubted whether it is implied in the phrase rendered
"Psalm of David." This doubt is corroborated by the phrase, "Psalms
of the sons of Korah." Plainly all the Korahites did not cooperate
in the composition of the psalms so superscribed; and the most
natural inference is that the phrase does not here designate
authorship, but that the psalm is one of a collection in some sense
belonging to or destined for the Korahitic guild of temple-singers.
[1] In that case the phrase would have a liturgical sense, and the
parallel phrase "of (or for) David," might have to be similarly
explained. It must be confessed, however, that whatever the actual
origin of the superscription, "of (or for) David," it certainly came
to be regarded as implying authorship--the many historical notices
in the superscriptions of Psalms li.-lx. are proof enough of that;
and no other explanation is possible of the superscription "of
Moses" in Psalm, xc (cf. Is. xxxviii. 9, the writing of Hezekiah).
[Footnote 1: It is not absolutely impossible that the phrase might
point to a collection composed by this guild, cf. "Moravian
brethren." But the other supposition is more likely.]

In later times, then, authorship was plainly intended by the
superscriptions. But it is quite certain that the superscriptions
themselves are no original and integral parts of the psalms. In the
Septuagint they occasionally differ from the Hebrew, assigning
psalms that are anonymous in the Hebrew (xcv., cxxxvii.) to David,
or to other authors (e.g., cxlvi.-cxlviii. to Haggai and Zechariah.)
The ease with which psalms were, without warrant, ascribed to David
may be seen from the Greek superscription to Psalm xcvi. "When the
house [i.e. the temple] was being built after the captivity; a song
of David": in other words, an admittedly post-exilic psalm is
ascribed to David. The superscriptions were added probably long
after the psalms, and there is no reason to suppose that the Hebrews
were exempt from the uncritical methods and ideas which
characterized the Greek translators. That they shared them is
abundantly proved by the historical superscriptions. One at least
(Ps. xxxiv.) in substituting the name of Abimelech (Gen. xx.) for
Achish (1 Sam. xxi.) shows either ignorance or carelessness, and
casts a very lurid light on the reliability of the superscriptions.
The contents of other psalms are manifestly irreconcilable with the
assumed authorship: Asaph, e.g., whom the Chronicles regards as a
contemporary of David (1 Chron. xvi 7), laments in Psalms lxxiv.,
lxxix. the devastation of the temple, which was not at that time in
existence. The principles on which the superscriptions were added
were altogether superficial and uncritical. Psalm cxxvii. is
ascribed to Solomon, chiefly because its opening verse speaks of the
building of the house, which was understood to be the temple. So
Psalm lxiii. is described as "a psalm of David when he was in the
wilderness of Judah," simply on the strength of the words, "My soul
thirsteth for thee in a dry and weary land where no water is"--words
which are taken literally, though they were undoubtedly intended
metaphorically. A parallel case is that of the psalm inserted in
Jonah ii., obviously a church psalm whose figurative language has
been too literally pressed.

Enough has been said to show that the superscriptions are later than
the psalms themselves, and often, if not always, unreliable; we are
therefore wholly dependent upon internal evidence, and the criteria
for Davidic authorship must be sought outside the Psalter. The only
absolutely undisputed poems of David's are the elegy over Saul and
Jonathan in 2 Samuel i. and the lament over Abner (2 Sam. iii. 33,
34). There is no means of proving that 2 Samuel xxii. (=Ps. xviii.)
and 2 Samuel xxiii. 1-7 are David's, as they are interpolated in a
section of Samuel which is itself an interpolation (xxi.-xxiv.),
interrupting as it does the continuity of 2 Samuel xx. and I Kings
i. The data offered by the elegy are much too slender to enable us
to decide whether any particular psalm is David's or not. Some have
ventured to ascribe a dozen psalms or so to him on the strength of
their peculiar vigour and originality, but obviously all such
decisions must be altogether subjective. What is certain is that
David was an accomplished musician (1 Sam. xvi. 18) and a great poet
(2 Sam. i.), a man of the most varied experience, rich emotional
nature and profound religious feeling, a devoted worshipper of
Jehovah, and eager to build Him a temple; and it is not impossible
that such a man may have written religious songs, but in the nature
of the case it can never be proved that he wrote any of the songs in
the Psalter. Psalm xviii. has been by many assigned to him with
considerable confidence because of the support it is thought to
receive from its appearance in a historical book; but besides the
fact that this support, as we have seen, is slender, the psalm can
hardly, at least in its present form, have come from David. The
superscription assigns it to a later period in his life when he had
been delivered from all his enemies; but at that time he could not
have looked back over the past, stained by his great sin, with the
complacency which marks the confession in vv. 20-24. Others have
supposed that xxiv. 7-10, with its picture of the entrance of
Jehovah through the "ancient gates," may well be his. It may be, if
the gates are those of the city; but if, as is more probable, they
are the temple gates, then the psalm must be long after the time of
Solomon. In the quest for Davidic psalms we can never possibly rise
above conjecture. Later ages regarded David as the father of sacred
song, just as they regarded Moses as the author of Hebrew law.

There can be little doubt, however, that there are pre-exilic psalms
or fragments in the Psalter. From Psalm cxxxvii. 3, 4 we may safely
infer that already, by the time of the exile, there were songs of
Jehovah or songs of Zion. We cannot tell what these songs were like;
but when we remember that for nearly two centuries before the exile
great prophets had been working--and we cannot suppose altogether
ineffectually, for they had disciples--it is difficult to see why,
granting the poetic power which the Hebrew had from the earliest
times, pious spirits should not have expressed themselves in sacred
song, or why some of these songs may not be in the Psalter.

We appear to be on tolerably sure ground in at least some of the
"royal" psalms. Doubtless it is often very hard to say, as in Psalms
ii., lxxii., whether the king is a historical figure or the
Messianic King of popular yearning; and possibly (cf. lxxii.) a
psalm which originally contemplated a historical king may have been
in later times altered or amplified to fit the features of the ideal
king. Other psalms, again (e.g., lxxxix., cxxxii.), clearly are the
products of a time when the monarchy is no more. But there remain
others, expressing, e.g. a wish for the king's welfare (xx., xxi.),
which can only be naturally referred to a time when the king was on
the throne. It is not absolutely impossible to refer these to the
period of the Hasmoneans, who bore the title from the end of the
second century B.C.; but the history of the canon renders this
supposition extremely improbable. The contents of these psalms are
not above pre-exilic possibility, and their position in the first
book would, generally speaking, be in favour of the earlier date.
Psalm xlv. also, which celebrates the marriage of a king to a
foreign princess, seems almost to compel a pre-exilic date.

Some scholars, struck by the resemblance between many of the
sorrowful psalms and the poetry of Jeremiah, have not hesitated to
ascribe some of them to him (cf. xl. 2). Such a judgment is
necessarily subjective, but there can be little doubt that Jeremiah
powerfully influenced Hebrew religious poetry. The Greek
superscriptions, again, which assign certain psalms to Haggai and
Zechariah, though doubtless unreliable, are of interest in
suggesting the liturgical importance of the period following the
return from the exile. This period seems to have produced several
psalms. Psalm cxxvi,, with its curiously complex feeling, apparently
reflects the situation of that period, and the group of psalms which
proclaim Jehovah as King, and ring with the notes of a "new song,"
were probably composed to celebrate the joy of the return and the
resumption of public worship in the temple (xciii., xcv.-c., cf.
xcvi. 1). The history of the next three centuries is very obscure,
and many a psalm which we cannot locate may belong to that period;
but the psalms which celebrate the law (i., xix. 7ff., cxix.) no
doubt follow the reformation of Ezra in the fifth century.

It is not probable that there are many, if any, psalms later than
170-165 B.C. in the Maccabean period; some deny even this
possibility, basing their denial on the history of the canon. But if
the book of Daniel, which belongs to this same period, was admitted
to the canon, there is no reason why the same honour should not have
been conferred upon some of the psalms. The Maccabean period was
fitted, almost more than any other in Israel's history, to rouse the
religious passion of the people to song; and, as the possibility
must be conceded, the question becomes one of exegesis. Exegetically
considered, the claims of at least Psalms xliv., lxxiv., lxxix.,
lxxxiii. are indubitable. They speak of a desolation of the temple
in spite of a punctilious fulfilment of the law, a religious
persecution, a slaughter of the saints, a blasphemy of the holy
name. No situation fits these circumstances so completely as the
persecution of the Jews by Antiochus Epiphanes in 168 B.C., and
these psalms betray many remarkable affinities with passages in the
first book of the Maccabees. As long ago as the fifth century A.D.
the sharp-sighted Theodore of Mopsuestia believed that there were
seventeen Maccabean psalms; Calvin admitted at least three. It may
be safely concluded, then, that the Psalter brings us within about a
century and a half of the Christian era.

The criteria for determining the date of a psalm are few and meagre.
The Psalter expresses the piety of more than half a millennium, and
even the century cannot always be fixed. The language is often
general, and the thoughts uttered would be as possible and
appropriate to one century as another. Nearly forty years ago
Nldeke maintained that there were psalms of which we could not say
with any definiteness to what period they belonged between 900 and
160 B.C. He himself referred Psalm ii. to Solomon, which had been
referred by Hitzig to Alexander Jannaeus (105-78 B.C.). Even where
the historical implications may seem fairly certain, there may be
more than one legitimate interpretation. Psalm xlvi., e.g., which is
usually regarded as a song of triumph sung after the departure of
Sennacherib, is by some interpreted eschatologically; Zion is the
ideal Zion of the latter days, and the stream that makes her glad is
the stream of Paradise. Some psalms, of course, have their origin
stamped very legibly upon them. Psalm cxxxvii. e.g., clearly implies
that the exile is not long over. The presence of Aramaisms in a
psalm is a fairly sure indication of a relatively late date. Within
certain limits, also, its theological ideas may be a guide, though
we know too little of the history of these ideas to use this
criterion with much confidence. Still, so elaborate an emphasis on
the omnipresence of God as we find in Psalm cxxxix. is only possible
to a later age, and this inference is more than confirmed by its
highly Aramaic flavour. Both these considerations render its
ascription to David utterly untenable.

The question was raised long ago and has been much discussed in
recent times, whether the subject of the Psalter is the individual
or the church; and till very recently the opinion has been gaining
ground that the experience and aspiration of the Psalter are not
personal and individual, but that in it is heard the collective
voice of the church. Many difficulties undoubtedly disappear or are
lessened on this interpretation, e.g., the bitterness of the
imprecatory psalms, or the far-reaching consequences attached in
other psalms (cf. xxii., xl.) to the deliverance of the singer. Till
the exile, the religious unit was the nation, and the collective use
of the singular pronoun is one of the commonest phenomena in Hebrew
literature. The Decalogue is addressed to Israel in the 2nd pers.
sing., in Deuteronomy the 2nd pers. sing, alternates with the pl.,
in the priestly blessing (Num. vi. 24ff.) Israel is blessed in the
singular. In Deutero-Isaiah, the servant of Jehovah is undoubtedly
to be interpreted collectively, and in many of the psalms the
collective interpretation is put beyond all doubt by the very
explicit language of the context:

  Much have they afflicted me from my youth up,
  Let _Israel_ now say, cxxix. 11

All this is true, and there are probably more collective psalms in
the Psalter than we have been accustomed to believe. But it would be
ridiculous to suppose that every psalm has to be so interpreted. Some
of the psalms were originally written without any view to the temple
service, and they must have expressed the individual emotion of the
singer.[1] Besides, Jeremiah had shown or at least suggested that
the real unit was the individual; the teaching of Ezekiel and the
book of Job are proof that the lesson had been well learned; and,
although the post-exilic church may have felt its solidarity and
realized its corporate consciousness as acutely as the pre-exilic
nation, the individual, as a religious unit, could never again be
forgotten. He had come to stay; and if, in many psalms, the general
voice of the church is heard, it is equally certain that many  others
utter the emotions and experiences of individual singers.
[Footnote 1: That Psalms, now collective, were originally
individual, and subsequently altered and adapted to the use of the
community is seen, e.g., in the occasional disturbance of the order
in alphabetical psalms (ix., x.). ]

The Psalter, or part of it, was used in the temple service[1]-witness
the numerous musical and liturgical superscriptions (cf. superscr. of
Ps. xcii.)--though the people probably did no more than sing or utter
the responses (cvi. 48). It would be difficult to estimate the
importance of the Psalter to the Old Testament Church. It was the
support of piety as well as the expression of it; and, to a worship
which laid so much stress upon punctilious ritual and animal sacrifice,
the Psalter, with its austere spiritual tone, its simple passion for
God, and its bracing sense of fellowship with the Eternal, would come
as a wholesome corrective. Almost in the spirit of the older prophets
(Hos. vi. 6) animal sacrifice is relegated to an altogether subordinate
place (xl., l., li.), if it is not indeed rebuked: the sacrifice dear
to God is a broken spirit. Thus the Psalter was a mighty contribution
in one direction, as the synagogue in another, to the development of
spiritual religion. It kept alive the prophetic element in Israel's
religion, and did much to counteract the more blighting influences of
Judaism. The place of the law is occasionally recognized (i., xix. 7ff.),
once very emphatically (cxix.), but it is honoured chiefly for its moral
stimulus. It is not, as in later times, an incubus; it is still an
inspiration.
[Footnote 1: The addition of the last verse to the alphabetic
psalms, xxv. and xxxiv., adapts these psalms, whether originally
individual or collective, to the temple service.]

There are tempers in the Psalter which are anything but lovely-hatred
of enemies, protestation of self-righteousness, and other utterances
which prevent it from being, in its entirety, the hymn-book of the
Christian Church. Historically these things are explicable and perhaps
inevitable, but the glory of the Psalter is its overwhelming sense of
the reality of God. The men who wrote it counted God their Friend; and
although they never forgot that He was the infinite One, whose home is
the universe and who fills the vast spaces of history with His
faithfulness and His justice, He was also to them the patient and
loving One, who preserves both man and beast, under the shadow of whose
wings the children of men may rest with quietness and confidence, and
before whom they could pour out the deepest thoughts and petitions of
their hearts, in the assurance that He was the hearer of prayer, and
that His tender mercies were over all His works. He was to them the
source of all strength and consolation and vision. In His light they
saw light; and in their noblest moments--whatever they might lose or
suffer--with Him they were content. In Luther's fine paraphrase of
Psalm lxxiii. 25, "If I have but Thee, I ask for nothing in heaven or
earth."




PROVERBS


Many specimens of the so-called _Wisdom Literature_ are
preserved for us in the book of Proverbs, for its contents are by no
means confined to what we call proverbs. The first nine chapters
constitute a continuous discourse, almost in the manner of a sermon;
and of the last two chapters, ch. xxx. is largely made up of
enigmas, and xxxi. is in part a description of the good housewife.

All, however, are rightly subsumed under the idea of wisdom, which
to the Hebrew had always moral relations. The Hebrew wise man seldom
or never gave himself to abstract speculation; he dealt with issues
raised by practical life. Wise men are spoken of almost as an
organized guild, and coordinated with priests and prophets as early
as the time of Jeremiah (xviii. 18), but the general impression made
by the pre-exilic references to the wise men is that they exercised
certain quasi-political functions and hardly correspond to the wise
men of later times who discussed issues of the moral life and
devoted themselves to the instruction of young men (Prov. i. 4, 8).

Most of the important types of thought of the wise men are represented
in the book of Proverbs. There are proverbs proper, a few of the
popular kind, but most of them bearing the stamp of deliberate art,
and dealing with the prudent conduct of life (x.-xxix.); there are
speculations of a more general kind on the nature that wisdom which
is the guide of life (i.-ix.); and there is scepticism (cf. Eccles.)
represented by the words of Agur (xxx. 1-4). The book, as a whole, might
be described as a guide to the happy life, or, we might almost say, to
the successful life--for a certain not ignoble utilitarianism clings
to many of its precepts. The world is recognized as a moral and orderly
world, and wisdom is profitable unto all things. The wisdom which the
wise man manifests in contact with life and its exigencies is but a
counterpart of the divine wisdom which, in one noble passage, is the
fellow of God and more ancient than creation (viii.).

There is not a little literary power in the book. Very beautiful is
Wisdom's appeal to the sons of men, and her invitation to the
banquet (viii., ix.). The isolated proverbs in x.-xxix. are usually
more terse and powerful than they appear in the English translation.
There are flashes of humour too:

  As a ring of gold in a swine's snout,
  So is a fair woman without discretion, xi. 22.
  Withhold not correction from thy son,
  Though thou smite him with the rod, he will not die, xxiii. 13.

They deal with life upon its average levels: there is nothing of the
prophetic enthusiasm, but they are robust and kindly withal.

Not without reason has the book been called "a forest of proverbs,"
for at any rate in the body of it it is practically impossible to
detect any principle of order. Usually the sayings in x.-xxix. are
disconnected, but occasionally kindred sayings are gathered into
groups of two or more verses; and sometimes it would seem as if the
principle of arrangement was alphabetic, several consecutive verses
occasionally beginning with the same letter, e.g., xx. 7-9, xxii. 2-4.
 There are eight divisions--

(_a_) i.-ix. (of which i. 1-6 is no doubt designed as an
introduction to the whole book, and vi. 1-19 is probably an
interpolation): an impressive appeal to secure wisdom and avoid
folly, especially when she appears in the guise of the strange
woman. Wisdom's own appeal and invitation.

(_b_) x.-xxii. 16. A series of very loosely connected proverbs
in couplets, x.-xv. being chiefly antithetic (cf. x. 1, xv. 1) and
xvi. 1-xxii. 16 chiefly synthetic (cf. xvi. 16).

(_c_) xxii. 17-xxiv. 22, designated as "the words of the wise,"
containing a few continuous pieces (cf. xxiii. 29-35 on drunkenness)
and addressed, like i.-ix., to "my son," cf. xxiii. 15, 26.

(_d_) xxiv. 23-34, probably little more than an appendix to
(_c_), and also containing a continuous piece (cf. _vv._
30-34 on sloth).

(_e_) xxv.-xxix. A series, in many respects resembling
(_6_), of loosely connected sayings. This section, especially
xxv.-xxvii., contains more proverbs in the strict sense, i.e.
sayings without any specific moral bearing, e.g. xxv. 25.

(_f_) xxx. The words of Agur, of a sceptical and enigmatical
kind, worked over by an orthodox reader (cf. _vv_. 5, 6, which
reprove _vv_. 2-4).

(_g_) xxxi. 1-9. Words addressed to king Lemuel (whom we cannot
identify) by his mother.

(_h_) xxxi. 10-31. An alphabetic poem in praise of the good
housewife.

Clearly the book makes no pretence to be, as a whole, from Solomon.
If we except i. 1-6, which is introductory to the whole book, only
(_b_) and (_e_) are assigned to Solomon: the other
sections--except the last, are deliberately assigned to others,
(_c_) and (_d_) expressly to "the wise." The ascription of
the whole book to Solomon, which seems to be implied by its opening
verse, and which, if genuine, would render the fresh ascription in
x. 1 unnecessary, is no doubt to be explained as the similar
ascription of the Psalms to David or the legislation to Moses. He
was the "wise man" of Hebrew antiquity, and he is expressly said in
1 Kings iv. 32 to have spoken 3,000 proverbs. The implication of
that passage (cf. _v_. 33) is that those proverbs consisted of
comparisons between men and trees or animals: that supposition is
met by some (cf. vi. 6) but not by many in the book. There are not
likely then to be many of his proverbs in our book; but not
impossibly there may be some. Ch. xxv. 1 is indeed very explicit,
but that notice is, on the face of it, late. The fact that Hezekiah
is called not simply king, but king of Judah, seems to point to a
time--at the earliest the exile--when the kingdom of Judah was no
more; so that this notice would be about a century and a half after
Hezekiah's time, and Hezekiah is more than two centuries after
Solomon. Obviously many of the proverbs in x.-xxix. could not have
been Solomon's. The advice as to the proper demeanour in the
presence of a king (xxv. 6, 7) would not come very naturally from
one who was himself a king (cf. xxiii.1ff.); nor, to say nothing of
the praises of monogamy, would he be likely so to satirize his own
government as he would do in xxix. 4: "He whose exactions are
excessive ruins the land."

The question may, however, be fairly raised whether the proverbs,
though as a whole not Solomonic, may yet be pre-exilic; and here two
questions must be kept apart--the date of the individual proverbs
and the date of the collections or of the book as a whole. Now it is
very probable that some of the proverbs are pre-exilic. The
references to the king, e.g.--kindly in x-xxii., and more severe in
xxv-xxix.--might indeed apply to the Greek period (fourth and third
centuries B.C.), but are equally applicable to the pre-exilic
period; and many of the shrewd observations on life might come
equally well from any period. But there can be little doubt that the
groups in their present form are post-exilic. The sages do their
work on the basis of the achievements of law and prophecy.[1] The
great prophetic ideas about God are not discussed, they are
presupposed; while the "law" of xxviii. 4, 7, 9, as in Psalm cxix.,
appears to be practically equivalent to Scripture, and would point
to the fifth century at the earliest. True, there are sayings quite
in the old prophetic spirit, to the effect that character is more
acceptable to God than ritual and sacrifice, xxi. 3, 27, xv. 8, xvi.
6; but this would be an equally appropriate and almost more
necessary warning in post-exilic times, especially upon the lips of
men whose profession was in part that of moral education.
[Footnote 1: The text of xxix. 18_a_ is too insecure (cf.
Septuagint) to justify us in saying that prophecy still exists. ]

There is no challenge of idolatry, such as we should expect if the
book were pre-exilic, and monogamy is everywhere presupposed. Indeed
it is very remarkable that no mention is made of Israel, or of any
institutions distinctly Israelitic. Its subject is not the nation,
but the individual, and its wisdom is cosmopolitan. Now though this
appeal to man rather than Israel, this emphasis on the universal
conscience, can be traced as far back as the eighth century[1] (Amos
iii. 9), the thoroughgoing application of it in Proverbs suggests a
larger experience of international relationships, which could hardly
be placed before the exile, and was not truly developed till long
after it, say, in the Persian or Greek period. This is peculiarly
true of chs. i-ix., which was probably an independent piece,
prefixed to x.-xxix., to gather up their sporadic elements of wisdom
in a comprehensive whole, and to secure an adequate religious basis
for their maxims which were, in the main, ethical. It is not
necessary to suppose that the personification of wisdom in ch. viii.
is directly influenced by Greek philosophy, but the whole
speculative manner of the passage points to a late, even if
independent, development of Jewish thought. The last two chapters
are probably the latest in the book, which, while it must be earlier
than Ben Sirach (180 B.C.), who distinctly adapts it, is probably
not earlier than 300 B.C.
[Footnote 1: Micah vi. 8, "He that showed thee, _O man_, what
is good," is also a saying of far-reaching significance in this
connection.]

The value of this much-neglected book is very great. It is easy of
course to point to its limitations--to show that it hardly, if ever
(ix. 18?) looks out upon another world, but confines its
compensations and its penalties to this, xi. 31, or to discover
utilitarian elements in its morality, in. 10, or mechanical features
in its conception of life, xvi. 31. But it would be easy to
exaggerate. The sages know very well that a good name is better than
wealth, xxii. 1, and that the deepest success of life is its
conformity to the divine wisdom (i.-ix.). While most of the maxims
are purely ethical, it has to be remembered that to the Hebrew
morality rests upon religion: the introductory section (i.-ix.)
throws its influence across the whole book, the motto of which is
that the fear of Jehovah is the basis of knowledge and its chief
constituent, i. 7. Besides, many of the maxims themselves are
specifically religious, e.g., "He that oppresseth the poor
reproacheth his Maker," xiv. 31, "He that hath pity on the poor
lendeth to Jehovah," xix. 17. On the more purely moral side, besides
giving a welcome glimpse into ancient Hebrew society, it is rich in
applications to modern life. Slander and revenge are severely
denounced; and earnest and repeated warnings are lifted up in
different parts of the book against wine and women (v., xxiii.,
xxxi.). Care for animals is inculcated, xii. 10, and love to
enemies, xxv. 21., in words borrowed by the New Testament--a notable
advance on Leviticus xix. 18.

In one or two respects the book is of peculiar interest and value to
the modern world. It is more interested, e.g., in practice than in
creed. Its creed is very simple, little more than a general fear of
Jehovah; but this receives endless application to practical life.
Again, the appeal of the book is, on the whole, not to revelation,
but to experience, and it meets the average man and woman upon their
ordinary level. Its appeal is therefore one which cannot be evaded,
as it commends itself, without the support of revelation, to the
universal moral instincts of mankind. Again, its emphasis upon the
moral, as opposed to the speculative, is striking. Immediately after
a passage which approaches as near to metaphysical speculation as
any Old Testament writer ever approaches, viii. 22-31, comes a
direct, tender and personal appeal. Lastly, there is an almost
modern sense of the inexorableness of law in the solemn reminder
that those who refuse and despise the call of wisdom will be left
alone and helpless when their day of trouble comes, i. 22ff. But the
sternness is mitigated by a gentler thought. Like a gracious lady,
wisdom, which is only one aspect of the divine Providence, pleads
with men, yearning to win them from their folly to the peace and
happiness which are alone with her; and even suffering is but one of
the ways of God, a confirmation of sonship, and even a manifestation
of His love.

  Whom Jehovah loveth, He reproveth,
  Even as a father the son in whom he delighteth, iii. 12.

This is perhaps the profoundest note in the book of Proverbs. A book
so rich in moral precept and religious thought may well claim to
have fulfilled its programme: "to give prudence to the simple, to
the young man knowledge and discretion," i. 4.




JOB


The book of Job is one of the great masterpieces of the world's
literature, if not indeed the greatest. The author was a man of
superb literary genius, and of rich, daring, and original mind. The
problem with which he deals is one of inexhaustible interest, and
his treatment of it is everywhere characterized by a psychological
insight, an intellectual courage, and a fertility and brilliance of
resource which are nothing less than astonishing. Opinion has been
divided as to how the book should be classified, whether as epic,
dramatic or didactic poetry. It is didactic at any rate in the sense
that the poet, who wrote it with his heart's blood, intended to read
his generation a much-needed lesson on the mysterious discipline of
life; and it is dramatic, though not in the ordinary sense--for in
the poetry proper there is no development of action--yet in the
sense that it vividly pourtrays the conflict of minds, and the clash
of conventional with independent opinion.

The story of the book is easily told. The prologue (i., ii.)
introduces Job as a pattern of scrupulous piety, and therefore, in
accordance with the ancient view, a prosperous man. In the heavenly
council, the Satan insinuates that, if the prosperity be withdrawn,
the piety will also disappear. Jehovah, sure of His servant Job,
grants the Satan permission to deprive Job of all that he
_has_, in order that he may discover what he _is_. Job
sustains the four fierce blows, which stripped him of all, with
beautiful resignation. The Satan is foiled. He now insinuates that
the trial has not been severe enough: only his property has been
touched--not his person. With Jehovah's permission a second assault
is made, and Job is smitten with the incurable and loathsome disease
of leprosy, so that he is without hope in the world. He has nothing
but God--will God be enough? Again Job sustains his trial in noble
and ever-memorable words; and the Satan is foiled again. Then three
of Job's friends--great sheikhs--come to express their sorrow.

Then follow three cycles of speeches between Job and his friends
(iii.-xiv.; xv.-xxi.; xxii.-xxxi).

_First cycle_. Job begins by lamenting his birthday and longing
for death (iii.). Eliphaz, a man of age and wisdom, with much
courtesy and by an appeal to a revelation which had been given him
in the night, seeks to reconcile Job to his lot, reminding him that
no mortal man can be pure in the sight of God, and assuring him of
restoration, if he accepts his suffering as discipline (iv., v.).
Job rejects this easy optimism and expresses his longing for a
speedy death, as life on the earth is nothing but a miserable
warfare (vi., vii.). Bildad, annoyed at Job's challenge of God's
justice, asserts the sure destruction of evildoers, but implicitly
concedes, at the end, that Job is not an evil-doer, by promising him
a bright future (viii.). Job then grows ironical. Of course, he
says, God is always in the right. Might is right, and He is
almighty, destroying innocent and guilty alike. He longs to meet
God, and to know why He so marvellously treats the creature He so
marvellously made (ix., x.). Zophar bluntly condemns Job's bold
words and urges repentance, but, like his friends, foretells the
dawn of a better day for Job, though his very last words are ominous
and suggestive of another possibility (xi.). Job, with a sarcastic
compliment to the wisdom of his friends, claims the right to an
independent judgment and challenges the whole moral order of the
world. Better be honest--God needs no man to distort the facts for
Him. Job longs for a meeting, in which God will either speak to him
or listen to him. But, as no answer comes, he laments again the
pathos of life, which ends so utterly in death (xii.-xiv.).

_Second cycle_. Eliphaz, concluding that Job despises religion,
describes in vigorous terms the fate of the godless (xv.). Job
complains of his fierce persecution by God, and appeals, in almost
the same breath, against this unintelligible God to the righteous
God in heaven, who is his witness and sponsor; but again he falls
back into gloom and despondency (xvi., xvii.). Bildad answers by
describing the doom of the wicked, with more than one unmistakable
allusion to Job's case (xviii.). Job is vexed. He breaks out into a
lament of his utter desolation, the darkness of which, however, is
shot through with a sudden and momentary gleam of assurance that God
will one day vindicate him (xix.). Not so, answers Zophar: the
triumph of the wicked is short (xx.). Job, in a bold and terrible
speech, assails the doctrine of the friends, challenges the moral
order, and asserts that the world is turned upside down (xxi.).

_Third cycle_. To the friends Job now seems to be condemned out
of his own mouth, and Eliphaz coolly proceeds to accuse him of
specific sins (xxii.). This drives Job to despair, and he longs to
appear before the God whom he cannot find, to plead his cause before
Him. Why does He not interpose? and again follows a fierce challenge
of the moral order (xxiii., xxiv.). The arguments of the friends are
being gradually exhausted, and Bildad can only reply by asserting
the uncleanness of man in presence of the infinite majesty of God
(xxv., xxvi.). In spite of this Job asserts his integrity, xxvii. 1-6.
Zophar repeats the old doctrine of the doom of the wicked, xxvii. 7-23.
Then Job rises up, like a giant, to make his last great defence. He
pictures his former prosperity and his present misery, and ends, in a
chapter which touches the noblest heights of Old Testament morality,
with a detailed assertion of the principles that governed his conduct
and character. With one great cry that the Almighty would listen to
him, he concludes (xxix.-xxxi.).

The Almighty does listen; and He answers--not by referring to Job's
particular case, still less to his sin, but by questions that
suggest to Job His own power, wisdom, and love, and the ignorance
and impotence of man, xxxviii., xxxix., xl. 2, 8-14. Job humbly
recognizes the inadequacy of his criticism in the light of this
vision of God, xl. 3-5, xlii. 2-6, and with this the poem comes to
an end.

The epilogue, xlii. 7-17, in prose, describes how Jehovah severely
condemned the friends for the words they had spoken, commended His
servant Job for speaking rightly of Him, and restored him to double
his former prosperity.

It is obvious that we have here a religious and not a philosophical
discussion. Indeed it is hardly a discussion at all; for, though the
psychological interest of the situation is heightened by every
speech, there is practically no development in the argument. The
friends grow more excited and unfair, Job grows more calm and
dignified; but so far as argument is concerned, neither he nor they
affect each other--the author meaning to suggest by this perhaps the
futility of human discussion.

The problem of the book of Job has been variously defined. In one
form it is raised by the question of Satan, i. 9, "Doth Job fear God
for naught?" which is the Hebrew way of saying, "Is there such a
thing as disinterested religion?" But the body of the book discusses
the problem under a wider aspect: how can the facts of human life,
and especially the sufferings of the righteous, be reconciled with
the justice of God? With delicate skill the author has suggested
that this problem is a universal one; not Israel alone is perplexed
by it, but humanity. To indicate this, he puts his hero and his
stage outside the land of Israel. Job is a foreign saint, and Uz is
on the borders of the Arabian desert.

The ancient theory of retribution was very simple: every man
received what he deserved--the good prosperity, the bad misfortune.
In its national application, this principle was obviously more or
less true, but every age must have seen numerous exceptions in the
life of the individual. The exceptions, however, were not felt to be
particularly perplexing, because, till the exile, the individual was
hardly seriously felt to be a religious unit: his personality was
merged in the wider life of the tribe or nation. But the exile,
which saw many of the best men suffer, forced the question to the
front; and the explanation then commonly offered was that they were
suffering for the sins of the fathers. Ezekiel denied this and
maintained that the individual received exactly what he deserved
(xviii.): it is well with the righteous and ill with the wicked. The
friends of Job in the main represent this doctrine, Eliphaz
appealing to revelation, Bildad to tradition, and Zophar to common
sense. The author of the book of Job desires, among other things, to
expose the inadequacy of this doctrine. Job, a good man--not only on
his own confession (xxxi.), but on the express and repeated
admission of God Himself, i. 8, ii. 3--is overwhelmed with
calamities which cannot be explained by the imperfections which are
inherent in all men, and which Job himself readily admits vii. 21.
How are such sufferings to be reconciled with the justice of God?

The problem had to be solved without reference to the future world.
To a steady faith in immortality, which can find its compensations
otherwhere, there is no real problem; but it is certain that, though
there are scattered hints, xiv. 13, xix. 25ff.--which, however, many
interpret differently--of a life after death, this belief is not
held by Job (or by the author) tenaciously, nor offered as a
solution, for the lamentations continue to the end. The solution, if
there is any, the author must find in this world. It would seem that
no definite solution is offered, though there are not a few profound
and valuable suggestions.

(1) The prologue, e.g., suggests that the sufferings of earth find
their ultimate explanation in the councils of heaven. What is done
or suffered here is determined there. (2) Again the prologue
suggests that suffering is a test of fidelity. Job has proved his
essential and disinterested goodness, besides glorifying the name of
the God, who trusted him, by standing fast. (3) The friends make
their shallow and conventional contribution to the solution: from
the doctrine--whose strict and universal truth Job denied--that sin
was always followed by suffering, they inferred the still more
questionable doctrine that suffering was punishment for sin. In
estimating the views of the friends, it should never be forgotten
that Jehovah, in the epilogue, condemns them as not having spoken
the thing that is right, xlii. 7, 8. Of course, though inadequate,
they are not always absolutely wrong; and Eliphaz expresses a truth
not wholly inapplicable to Job's case--at least to the Job of the
speeches--when he insists on the disciplinary value of suffering, v.
17 ff.

(4) If a real solution is offered anywhere, one would most naturally
look for it in the speeches of Jehovah (xxxviii. ff.); and at first
sight they are not very promising. Their effect would most naturally
be rather to silence and overwhelm Job than to convince him; and to
some they have suggested no more than that the contemplation of
nature may be a remedy for scepticism. But their object is
profounder than that. By heightening the sense of the mystery of the
universe, they show Job the folly, and almost the impertinence, of
expecting an adequate answer to all his whys and wherefores. A man
who cannot account for the most familiar facts of the physical world
is not likely to explore the subtler mysteries of the moral world.
But there is more. The divine speeches suggest that God is not only
strong--Job knew that very well (ix.)--but wise, xxxviii. 2, and
kind, feeding even the ravenous beasts, xxxviii. 39, and tenderly
caring for the waste and desolate place where no man is, xxxviii.
26. The universe compels trust in the wisdom and love of God. (5)
The epilogue, too, shows how the suffering hero was rewarded and
vindicated. The reward we shall discuss afterwards; but it is with
fine instinct that the epilogue represents Job as a man so powerful
with God that his prayer is effectual to save his erring friends,
and four times within two verses, xlii. 7 f, Jehovah calls him "My
servant Job." Therein lies his real vindication, rather than in the
reward of the sheep and the oxen.

The book clearly intends to suggest that in this world it is vain to
look for exact retribution. From calamity it is unjust to infer
special or secret sin: the worst may happen to the best. Again,
there is such a thing as disinterested goodness, a goodness which
believes in and clings to God, when it has nothing to hope for but
Himself. But the book may also be fairly regarded as a protest
against contemporary theology; and, in its present form, at any
rate, it suggests that God loves the independent thinker. The
friends are orthodox, but shallow; "Who ever perished, being
innocent?" iv. 7. They are so wedded to their theories that even the
oldest and wisest among them cruelly invents falsehoods to support
them (xxii.). Job replies to theories by facts. He is a man of
independent observation and judgment, his mouth must "taste for
itself," xii. 11. He is bold sometimes almost to blasphemy, he
accuses God of destroying innocent and guilty alike, ix. 22, and
does not scruple to parody a psalm, vii. 17 f. Yet he does this
because he must be true to facts, whatever comes of theories: he
must cling to the God of conscience against the God of convention.

In discussing the scheme of the book and the solution it offers of
the problem of suffering, we have not yet taken into account the
_speeches of Elihu_ (xxxii.-xxxvii.). The value and importance
of these have been variously estimated, the extremes being represented
by Duhm, who characterizes them as the childish effusions of some
bombastic rabbi, and Cornill, who calls them "the crown of the book
of Job." It is not without good reason that the authenticity of this
section has been doubted. After the dramatic appeal at the close of
Job's splendid defence, it is natural to suppose that Jehovah appears;
and when He does appear (xxxviii.), His speech is expressly said to be
an answer to Job. Elihu is completely ignored, as he is not only in
the prologue but also in the epilogue, xlii. 7. The latter omission
would be especially strange, if he is integral to the book. As his
speech is not condemned, it is natural to infer from the silence
that it is implicitly commended. In that case, however, we have two
solutions--the Elihu speeches and the Jehovah speeches. But there is
practically nothing new in the Elihu speeches: in emphasizing the
greatness of God, they but anticipate the Jehovah speeches, and in
emphasizing the disciplinary value of chastisement, they but amplify
the point already made by Eliphaz in v. 17ff., and most summarily
expressed in xxxvi. 15. Almost the only other assertion made is
that, as against Job's contention, God does speak to men--through
dreams, sickness, angels, etc. The lengthy description in which
Elihu is introduced, and the mention of his genealogy, are very
unlike the other introductions. The literary art of the section is,
speaking generally, inferior to that of the rest of the book. It is
imitative rather than creative. Elihu takes about twenty verses to
announce the simple fact that he is going to speak, though there
might be a dramatic propriety in this, as he is represented as a
young man. Further, the language is more Aramaic than the rest of
the book. Cornill, however, defends the section as offering the real
solution of the problem. "If a man recognizes the educative
character of suffering and takes it to heart, the suffering becomes
for him a source of infinite blessing, the highest manifestation of
divine love." But it seems rather improbable that the true solution
should be put into the lips of a young man, who said he was ready to
burst if he did not deliver himself of his speech, xxxii. 19. Apart
from the fact that it is more natural to look for the solution in
the speeches of Jehovah, and that the Elihu speeches, in condemning
Job, disagree with the epilogue, which commends him, the arguments
against their authenticity seem much more than to counterbalance the
little that can be said in their favour; and in all probability they
are an orthodox addition to the book from the pen of some later
scholar who was offended by Job's accusations of God and
protestations of his own innocence.

The authenticity of the _prologue and epilogue_ has also been
questioned, some scholars asserting that they really form the
beginning and end of an older (pre-exilic) book of Job, the body of
which was replaced by the speeches in our present book. The question
is far from unimportant, as on it depends, in part, our conception
of the purpose of the author of the speeches. Against the idea that
the prologue and epilogue are from his hand are these
considerations. They are in prose, while the body of the book is in
verse. Again, the name of God in the prologue and epilogue is
Jehovah; elsewhere, with one exception, which is probably an
interpolation, xii. 9, it is El, Eloah, Shaddai, as if Jehovah were
purposely avoided.[1] In xix. 17_b_, where the true translation
is "Mine evil savour is strange to the sons of my body," the
children are regarded as living:[2] while in the prologue they are
dead. But more serious is the fact that the Job of the prologue
seems to differ fundamentally from the Job of the speeches. The
former is patient, submissive, resigned; the latter is impatient,
bitter, and even defiant. Further, the epilogue represents Jehovah
as commending Job and condemning the friends without qualification,
whereas it may be urged that, in the course of the speeches, the
friends were not always wrong, nor was Job always right, and that it
is impossible that his merciless criticisms of the moral order could
have passed without divine rebuke: much that Job said would have
delighted the Satan of the prologue. These considerations have led
to the supposition that, in the original book, Job maintained
throughout the spirit of devout resignation which he showed in the
prologue, while it was the friends who accused God of cruelty and
injustice. A bolder and profounder thinker of a later age attacked
the problem independently on the basis of the old story, and
inserted his contribution, iii.-xlii. 6, between the prologue and
the epilogue, thus giving a totally different turn to the story.
[Footnote 1: Ch. xxxviii. i, being introductory to the speeches of
Jehovah, should hardly be counted.]
[Footnote 2: See, however, viii. 4, xxix. 5, so that xix. 17_b_
may be due to forgetfulness.]

This view is ingenious, but does not seem necessary.
Psychologically, there is no necessary incompatibility between the
Job of the prologue and the Job of the speeches. It must not be
forgotten that months have elapsed between the original blow and the
lamentations, vii. 3--months in which the brooding mind of the
sufferer has had time to pass from resignation to perplexity, and
almost to despair. Again, the words of Job are not to be taken too
seriously; they are, as he says himself, the words of a desperate
man, vi. 26, and the commendation in the epilogue may be taken to
apply rather to his general attitude than to his particular
utterances. Some kind of introduction there must undoubtedly have
been; otherwise the speeches, and especially Job's repeated
asseverations of his innocence, are unintelligible. The literary
power and skill of the prologue is as great as that of the speeches:
dramatically, the swift contrast between the happy family upon the
earth and the council of gods in heaven, or the rapid succession of
blows that rained upon Job the moment that Satan "went forth from
the presence of Jehovah," is as effective as the psychological
surprises in which the book abounds. The language is slightly in
favour of a post-exilic date, and the conception of Satan appears to
be somewhat in advance of Zechariah iii. 1 (520 B.C.). On the whole
it seems fair to conclude that the great poet who composed the
speeches also wrote the prologue, though of course his material lay
to hand in a popular, and not improbably written story.

With the prologue must go at least part of the epilogue, xlii. 7-9;
for the author's purpose is to characterize the two types of thought
represented by the discussion and to vindicate Job. More doubt may
attach to the concluding section, _vv_. 10-17, which represents
that vindication as taking the form of a material reward. A Western
reader is surprised and disappointed: to him it seems that the
author has "fallen from his high estate," and has failed to be
convinced by his own magnificent argument. But, as we have already
said, the real vindication of Job is the efficacy of his prayer, and
the material reward is, in any case, not much more than a sort of
poetic justice. It is indeed an outward and visible sign of the
relation subsisting between Job and his God; but it is hard to
believe that the genius who fought his way to such a solution as
appears in xxxviii., xxxix., would himself have laid much stress
upon it. Yet it is not inappropriate or irrelevant. Job's sufferings
had their origin in Satan's denial of his integrity; and now that
Satan has been convinced--for Job clings in the deepest darkness to
the God of his conscience--it is only just that he should be
restored to his former state.

It is not certain that ch. xxviii. with its fine description of
wisdom, which is neither to be found in mine nor mart, is original
to the book. It does not connect well either with the preceding or
the following chapter. The serenity that breathes through ch.
xxviii. would not naturally be followed by the renewed lamentations
of xxix., and it would further be dramatically inappropriate for a
man in agony to speak thus didactically. It is a sort of companion
piece to Proverbs viii.; it is too abstract for its context, and
lacks its almost fierce emotion.

Doubt also attaches to the sections descriptive of _the
hippopotamus and the crocodile_, xl. l5-xli. The defence is that,
as the earlier speeches of God, xxxviii. xxxix., were to convince
Job of his ignorance, so these are to convince him of his impotence.
But the descriptions, though fine in their way (cf. xli. 22), do not
stand on the same literary level as those of xxxviii., xxxix. These
are brief and drawn to the life--how vivid are the pictures of the
war-horse and the wild ass!--those of xl., xli. are diffuse and
somewhat exaggerated. Of course Oriental standards of taste are not
ours; still the difference can hardly be ignored. It is worthy of
note, too, that the word leviathan in xli. 1 is used in a totally
different sense from iii 8, where it is the mythological (sea?)
dragon. The author appears to have travelled widely and the book
betrays a knowledge of Egypt (cf. pyramids, iii. 14; papyrus, viii.
11; reed ships, ix. 26; phoenix, xxix. 18), but it is not without
significance that all his other animal pictures are drawn from the
desert--the lion (iv.), the wild ass, the war-horse. On the whole,
it is hardly probable that these long descriptions, rather
unnecessarily retarding, as they do, the crisis between Jehovah and
Job for which the sympathetic reader is impatiently waiting, are
original to the book.

Certain redistributions of the speeches seem to be necessary. Ch.
xxvi. is conceived in a temper thoroughly unlike that of Job at this
stage, while it closely resembles that of xxv. As ch. xxv. would be
an unusually short speech, it is probable that xxv. and xxvi. should
both be given to Bildad. That there is something wrong is plain from
the fresh introduction to xxvii. 1 (cf. xxix. 1), a phenomenon which
does not elsewhere occur and which, if xxvi. is Job's, should be
unnecessary. Again in xxvii. 7-23 Job turns completely round upon
his own position and adopts that of the friends. It has been said
that he "forgets himself sufficiently in ch. xxvii. to deliver a
discourse which would have been suitable in the mouth of one of the
friends." Surely such an explanation is as impossible as it is
psychologically unnatural: in all probability _vv_. 7-23 ought
to be given to Zophar--the more probably as xxvii. 13 is very like
xx. 19, which is Zophar's. This would have the further advantage of
accounting for the fresh introduction to xxix. (especially if we
allow xxviii. to be a later addition).

Probably xxxi. 38-40, which constitute, at least to an Occidental
taste, an anticlimax in their present position, should be placed
after _v_. 32, and xl. 3-5 (followed by xlii. 2-6) after xl. 6-14.

The date of the book of Job is not easy to determine. Ch. xii. 17
shows a knowledge of the dethronement of kings and the exile of
priests and nobles which compels a date at any rate later than the
fall of the northern kingdom (721 B.C.) more probably also of the
southern. The reference in Ezekiel, xiv. 14, 20, to Job should not
be pressed, as it involves only a knowledge of the man, not
necessarily of any book, still less of our book. Nor can much be
made of the parody of Psalm viii. 4 in Job vii. 17, as we have no
means of fixing precisely the date of the psalm. Job's lament and
curse in ch. iii. are strikingly similar to Jeremiah xx. 14-18, and
there can be little doubt that the priority lies on the side of the
prophet. Jeremiah was in no mood for quotation, his words are brief
and abrupt. The book of Job is a highly artistic poem, and it is
much more probable that Job iii. is an elaboration of the passionate
words of Jeremiah than that Jeremiah adapted in his sorrow the
longer lament of Job. This circumstance would bring us down to a
time, at the earliest, very near the exile.

At this point it has to be noted that the discussion of the moral
problem in the book of Job is in advance of Jeremiah or Ezekiel.
Against the explanation that the children's teeth are set on edge
because their fathers have eaten sour grapes, Ezekiel has nothing to
offer but a rather mechanical doctrine of strict retribution (ch.
xviii.). The book of Job represents a further stage, when that
doctrine was seen to be untenable; and the whole question is again
boldly raised and still more boldly discussed. This would carry the
date below Ezekiel. As the problem in Job is individual, and only
indirectly, if at all, a national one--"there was _a man_ in
the land of Uz"--the book cannot be earlier than the exile.

But further, there is an unmistakable similarity between the temper
of this book and that of the pious in the time of Malachi. "Every
one that doeth evil is good in the sight of Jehovah, and He
delighteth in them. Where is the God of justice?" Malachi ii. 17. We
might fancy we heard the voice of Job; and almost more plainly in
Malachi iii. 14, "It is vain to serve God, and what profit is it
that we have kept His ordinance?" Equally striking is the similarity
between the dialectic temper in Job and Malachi. Everywhere in
Malachi occur the phrases, "Ye have said, yet ye say," etc. Good men
have not only raised the problem of the moral order, as Habakkuk and
Jeremiah had done: they are formally discussing it--exactly the
phenomenon which we have in Job and do not have in pre-exilic times.
If it be asked why, in that case, there is no trace of influence of
Deutero-Isaiah's solution, the answer is that, in any case, that
solution stands without serious influence on the subsequent
development of religious thought in the Old Testament.

Again, the peculiar boldness of the discussion suggests a post-exilic
date. Jeremiah is also very bold, xii. 1, but it is a different type of
audacity that expresses itself in the book of Job. Unlike Ecclesiastes
in practically everything else, Job is like it in being a sustained and
fearless challenge of the phenomena of the moral world. A post-exilic
date, and perhaps not a very early one, would seem to be suggested by
these phenomena. It is the product not only of an unhappy man, but of
an unhappy time, when life is a warfare, vii. 1, and good men are
bitter in heart. This date is borne out by the angelology of the book,
v. 1, and by its easy use of mythology, iii. 8, xxvi. 5--a mythology
which is felt to be completely innocuous, because monotheism is secure
beyond the possibility of challenge. It is practically certain that the
book falls before Chronicles (_circa_ 300 B.C.) as in 1 Chronicles
xxi. 1, Satan is a proper name, whereas in Job the word is still an
appellative--he is "the Satan.". Where the evidence is so slender
certainty is impossible; but there is a probability that the book may
be safely placed somewhere between 450 and 350 B.C. One could conceive
it to be, in one sense, a protest against the legalistic conception of
religion encouraged by the work of Ezra, and this would admirably fit
the date assigned.




SONG OF SONGS


The contents of this book justify the description of it in the
title, i. 1, as the "loveliest song"--for that is the meaning of the
Hebrew idiom "song of songs." It abounds in poetical gems of the
purest ray. It breathes the bracing air of the hill country, and the
passionate love of man for woman and woman for man. It is a
revelation of the keen Hebrew delight in nature, in her vineyards
and pastures, flowers and fruit trees, in her doves and deer and
sheep and goats. It is a song tremulous from beginning to end with
the passion of love; and this love it depicts in terms never coarse,
but often frankly sensuous--so frankly sensuous that in the first
century its place in the canon was earnestly contested by Jewish
scholars. That place was practically settled in 90 A.D. by the Synod
of Jamnia, which settled other similar questions; and about 120 A.D.
we find a distinguished rabbi maintaining that "the whole world does
not outweigh the day when the Song of Songs was given to Israel;
while all the _Writings_ are holy, the song is holiest of all."
This extravagant language suggests that the canonicity of the song
had been strenuously contested; and it may have been a latent sense
of the secular origin of the song that led to the prescription that
a Jew must not read it till he was thirty years of age. Its place in
the canon was no doubt secured for it by two considerations, (i) its
reputed Solomonic authorship, (ii) its allegorical interpretation.

The reception of the book in the Canon led, as Siegfried has said,
to the most monstrous creations in the history of interpretation. If
it be by Solomon, and therefore a holy book, it must be a
celebration of divine love, not of human. So it was argued; and the
theme of the book was regarded as the love of Jehovah for Israel.
Christian interpreters, following this hint of their Jewish
predecessors, applied it to the love of Christ for His church or for
the individual soul. The allegorical view of the poem has many
parallels in the mystic poetry of the East, and it even finds a
slender support in Hosea's comparison of the relation of Jehovah to
Israel as a marriage relationship; but taking into account the
general nature of the poem, and the tendencies of the Hebrew mind,
it may be fairly said that the allegorical interpretation is
altogether impossible. Any love poem would be equally capable of
such an interpretation.

Another view, first hinted at in a phrase of Origen, is that the
book is a drama, a view which has held the field--not without
challenge--for over a century. There is much in the language of the
song to suggest this: it is obvious, e.g., that there is occasional
dialogue, i. 15, 16, ii. 2, 3, but the actual story of the drama was
very far from clear. The older view was that it was a story of
Solomon's love for a peasant girl, and of his redemption from his
impure loves by his affection for her. But as in viii. 11 f. and
elsewhere, Solomon is spoken of by way of contrast, room must be
made for a third person, the shepherd lover of the peasant maid;
and, with much variety of detail, the supporters of the dramatic
theory now adhere in general to the view that the poem celebrates
the fidelity of a peasant maid who had been captured and brought to
Solomon's harem, but who steadily resisted his blandishments and was
finally restored to her shepherd lover. The book becomes thus not a
triumph of love over lust, but of love over temptation. The story is
very pretty; but the objections to it and to the dramatic view of
the book are all but insuperable. It must be confessed that, to
arrive at such a story at all, a good deal has to be read between
the lines, and interpreters usually find what they bring; but the
most fatal objection to it is that the text in vi. 12, on which the
whole story turns--the maiden's surprise in the orchard by the
retinue of the king--is so disjointed and obscure that the attempt
to translate it has been abandoned by many competent scholars.

Apart from that, the story can hardly be said to be probable. "She,
my dove, is but one," vi. 9, would sound almost comical upon the
lips of one who possessed the harem of vi. 8. But in any case, it is
almost inconceivable that Solomon would have taken a refusal from a
peasant girl: Oriental kings were not so scrupulous. Again, it is
very hard to detect any progress on the dramatic view of the book.
Ch. viii. with its innocent expression of an early love, follows ch.
vii., which is sensuous to the last degree. Further, in the absence
of stage directions, every commentator divides the verses among the
characters in a way of his own: the opening words of the song, i.
2_a_, may be interpreted in three or four different ways, and
equal possibilities of interpretation abound throughout the song. Of
course the difficulties are not quite so great in the Hebrew as in
the English (e.g. i. 15 must be spoken by the bridegroom and i. 16
by the bride), but they are great enough. Again, how are we to
conceive of so short a play--ll6 lines--being divided into acts and
scenes? for the scenes are continually changing, and the longest
would not last more than two minutes. It would not be fair to lay
too much stress upon the fact that there is no other illustration of
a purely Semitic drama; that would be to argue that, if a thing did
not happen twice, it did not happen once. Nevertheless, coupled with
the untold difficulties and confusions that arise from regarding the
song as a drama, the absence of a Semitic parallel is significant.

The true view of this perplexing book appears to be that it is, as
Herder called it, "a string of pearls"--an anthology of love or
wedding songs sung during the festivities of the "king's week," as
the first week after the wedding is called in Syria. Very great
probability has been added to this view by the observations of
Syrian customs made by Wetzstein in his famous essay on "The Syrian
Threshing-board," and first thoroughly applied by Budde to the
interpretation of the Song. Syrian weddings, we are told, usually
took place in March, ii. 11ff. The threshing-floor is set on a sort
of platform on the threshing-board covered with carpets and pillows;
and upon this throne, the "king and queen," i.e. the bride and
bridegroom, are seated, while the guests honour them with song, game
and dance. This lasts for seven days (cf. Gen. xxix. 27; Jud. xiv.
12); and the theory is that in the Song of Songs we have specimens
of the songs sung on such an occasion. In particular, it is
practically certain that vi. 13-vii. 9 is the song which
accompanied the "sword-dance" (as the last words of vi. 13 should
probably be translated) performed by the bride on the eve of her
wedding day. This would explain the looseness of the arrangement, no
special attempt being made to unify the songs, though it may be
conceded that the noble eulogy of love in viii. 6, 7, as it is the
finest utterance in the book, was probably intended as a sort of
climax.

The king, then, is not Solomon, but the peasant bridegroom, who
enjoys the regal dignity, and even the name of Israel's most
splendid monarch, iii. 7, 9, for the space of a week. Ch. iii. 11,
with its reference to the bridegroom's crown (cf. Isa. lxi. 10), is
all but conclusive proof that the hero is not king Solomon, but
another sort of bridegroom. His bride, perhaps a plain country girl,
counts for the week as the maid of Shulem, vi. 13, i.e. Abishag,
once the fairest maid in Israel (vi. 1, I Kings i. 3). So throughout
the "king's week" everything is transfigured and takes on the
colours of royal magnificence: the threshing-board becomes a
palanquin, and the rustic bodyguard appear as a band of valiant
warriors, iii. 7, 8. There is a charming naivete, and indeed
something much profounder, in this temporary transformation of those
humble rustic lives. We are involuntarily reminded of scenes in _A
Midsummer Night's Dream_. This view of the book has commended
itself to scholars like Nldeke, who formerly championed the
dramatic theory, though two of the latest writers[1] have argued
skilfully against it.
[Footnote 1: Harper, in the Cambridge Bible "Song of Songs," and
Rothstein, in Hastings' _Dictionary of the Bible_.]

The following may be taken as an approximate division of the songs,
though some of the longer sections might easily be regarded as a
combination of two or three songs. The bride praises the bridegroom,
modestly depreciates her own beauty, and asks where her bridegroom is
to be found, i. 2-8. Each sings the other's praises: the happiness of
the bride, i. 9-ii. 7. A spring wooing, ii. 8-17. The bride's dream,
iii. 1-5. The bridegroom's procession, iii. 6-11. The charms of the
bride, iv. 1-v. 1. The beauty of the bridegroom, v. 2-vi. 3. Praise of
the bride, vi. 4-12. Praise of the bride as she dances the sword-dance,
vii. 1-10. The bride's longing, vii. 11-viii. 4. The incomparable power
of love, viii. 5-7. The bride's proud reply to her brothers, viii. 8-10.
The two vineyards, viii. 11, 12. Conclusion, viii. 13, 14.

The immortal verses in praise of love, viii. 6, 7, show that, in
spite of its often sensuous expression, the love here celebrated is
not only pure but exclusive; and the book, which once was regarded
as a satire on the court of Solomon, would in any case make in
favour of monogamic sentiment, and tend to ennoble ideals in a
country where marriage was simply regarded as a contract.

The mention of Israel's ancient capital Tirzah in vi. 4 (if the text
be correct) as a parallel to Jerusalem, would alone be enough to
bring the date below Solomon's time (cf. 1 Kings xiv. 17, xvi. 23).
But it is no doubt much later. The Persian word _pardes_ in iv.
13 appears to imply the Persian period, and is used elsewhere only
in post-exilic books (Neh. ii. 8; Eccles. ii. 5). Indeed the word
_appirion_ in iii. 9 appears to be the Hebraized form of a
Greek word _phoreion_, and if so would almost necessarily imply
the Greek period, though the Hebrews may have been acquainted with
Greek words, through the Greek settlements in Egypt, as early as the
sixth century B.C. Many of the words and constructions, however, are
demonstrably late and Aramaic; and the linguistic evidence alone
(unless we assume an earlier book to have been worked over in later
times) would put the Song hardly earlier than the fourth century
B.C. Yet the fact that though a secular writing, it is in Hebrew and
not Aramaic, which was rapidly gaining ground, shows that it can
hardly be brought down much later. On the whole, probably it is to
be placed somewhere between 400 and 300; and its sunny vivacity thus
becomes a welcome foil to the austerity of the post-exilic age. If
this argument is sound, it follows that the book cannot have been by
Solomon. The superscription, i. 1, was no doubt added by a later
hand on the basis of the many references to Solomon in the book,
iii. 7-11, viii. 11 f, and of the statement in 1 Kings iv. 32 that
he was the author of 1,005 songs.

Where the songs were composed we cannot tell. The scenes they
reflect so vividly are rather those of Israel than of Judah, but the
repeated allusions to the daughters of Jerusalem would be most
naturally explained if the songs came from Jerusalem or its
neighbourhood. With this agree the references to Engedi, Heshbon,
Kedar, while the northern places mentioned, Lebanon, Hermon, Gilead,
Damascus, are such as would be familiar, at any rate, by reputation,
to a Judean.




RUTH


Goethe has characterized the book of Ruth as the loveliest little
idyll that tradition has transmitted to us. Whatever be its didactic
purpose--and some would prefer to think that it had little or none-it
is, at any rate, a wonderful prose poem, sweet, artless, and persuasive,
touched with the quaintness of an older world and fresh with the scent
of the harvest fields. The love--stronger than country--of Ruth for
Naomi, the gracious figure of Boaz as he moves about the fields with a
word of blessing for the reapers, the innocent scheming of Naomi to
secure him as a husband for Ruth--these and a score of similar touches
establish the book for ever in the heart of all who love nobility and
romance.

The inimitable grace and tenderness of the story are dissipated in a
summary, but the main facts are these. A man of Bethlehem, with his
wife Naomi and two sons, is driven by stress of famine to Moab,
where the sons marry women of the land. In course of time, father
and sons die, and Naomi resolves to return home. Ruth, one of her
daughters-in-law, accompanies her, in spite of Naomi's earnest
entreaty that she should remain in her own land. In Bethlehem, Ruth
receives peculiar kindness from Boaz, a wealthy landowner, who
happens to be a kinsman of Naomi; and Naomi, with a woman's happy
instinct, devises a plan for bringing Boaz to declare himself a
champion and lover of Ruth. The plan is successful. A kinsman nearer
than Boaz refuses to claim his rights by marrying her, and the way
is left open for Boaz. He accordingly marries Ruth, who thus becomes
the ancestress of the great King David.

Why was this story told? The question of its object is to some
extent bound up with the question of date; and for several reasons,
this appears to be late. (1) In the Greek, Latin and modern Bibles,
Ruth is placed after Judges; in the Hebrew Bible it is placed
towards the end, among the _Writings_, i.e. the last division,
in which, speaking generally, only late books appear. Had the book
been pre-exilic, it is natural to suppose that it would have been
placed after Judges in the second division. Some indeed maintain
that this is its original position; but it is easier to account for
its transference from the third division to the second, as a foil to
the war-like episodes of the judges, than for its transference from
the second to the third. (2) The argument from language is perhaps
not absolutely decisive, but, on the whole, it is scarcely
compatible with an early date. Some words are pure Aramaic, and some
of the Hebrew usages do not appear in early literature, e.g.,
"fall," in the sense of "fall out, issue, happen," iii. 18. (3) The
opening words--"In the days when the judges judged," i. 1--suggest
not only that those days are past, but that they are regarded as a
definite period falling within an historical scheme. The book must
be, at any rate, as late as David--for it describes Ruth as his
ancestress, iv. l7--and probably much later, as the implication is
that it is a great thing to be the ancestress of David. The
reverence of a later age for the great king shines through the
simple genealogical notice with which the story concludes.[1] (4)
Further, the old custom of throwing away the shoe as a symbol of the
abandonment of one's claim to property, a custom familiar in the
seventh century B.C. (Deut. xxv. 9f.) is in iv. 7 regarded as
obsolete, belonging to the "former time." The cumulative effect of
these indications is strongly to suggest a post-exilic date. Not
perhaps, however, a very late one: a book as late as the Maccabean
period would hardly have reflected so kindly a feeling towards the
foreigner (cf. Esther).
[Footnote 1: Probably iv. 18-22 is a later addition, but that does
not affect the general argument (cf. _v_.17).]

The story probably rests upon a basis of fact. David's conduct in
putting his parents under the protection of the king of Moab (I Sam.
xxii. 3, 4) would find its simplest explanation, if he had been
connected in some way with Moab, as the book of Ruth represents him
to have been; whereas a later age would hardly have dared to invent
a Moabite ancestress for him, had there been no tradition to that
effect.

The object of the book has been supposed by some to be to commend
the so-called levirate marriage. This is improbable: not so much
because the marriage was not strictly levirate, since neither Boaz
nor the kinsman was the brother-in-law of Ruth--it would be fair
enough to regard this as a legitimate extension of the principle of
levirate marriage, whose object was to perpetuate the dead man's
name--but rather because this is a comparatively subordinate element
in the story.

The true explanation is no doubt to be sought in the fact that Ruth
the Moabitess is counted worthy to be an ancestress of David; and,
if the book be post-exilic, its religious significance is at once
apparent. It was in all probability the dignified answer of a man of
prophetic instincts to the rigorous measures of Ezra, which demanded
the divorce of all foreign women (Ezra ix. x, cf. Neh. xiii. 23ff.);
for it can hardly be doubted that there is a delicate polemic in the
repeated designation of Ruth as _the Moabitess_, i. 22, ii. 2,
6, 21, iv. 5, 10--she even calls herself the "stranger," ii. 10. It
would be pleasant to think that the writer had himself married one
of these foreign women. In any case, he champions their cause not
only with generosity but with insight; for he knows that some of
them have faith enough to adopt Israel's God as their God, i. 16,
and that even a Moabitess may be an Israelite indeed. Ezra's severe
legislation was inspired by the worthy desire to preserve Israel's
religion from the peril of contagion: the author of Ruth gently
teaches that the foreign woman is not an inevitable peril, she may
be loyal to Israel and faithful to Israel's God. The writer dares to
represent the Moabitess as eating with the Jews, ii. l4--winning by
her ability, resource and affection, the regard of all, and counted
by God worthy to be the mother of Israel's greatest king. The
generous type of religion represented by the book of Ruth is a much
needed and very attractive complement to the stern legalism of Ezra.




LAMENTATIONS


The book familiarly known as the Lamentations consists of four
elegies[1] (i., ii., iii., iv.) and a prayer (v.). The general theme
of the elegies is the sorrow and desolation created by the
destruction of Jerusalem[2] in 586 B.C.: the last poem (v.) is a
prayer for deliverance from the long continued distress. The elegies
are all alphabetic, and like most alphabetic poems (cf. Ps. cxix.)
are marked by little continuity of thought. The first poem is a
lament over Jerusalem, bereft, by the siege, of her glory and her
sanctuary, i. 1-11, though the bitter and comfortless doom which she
bewails in i. 12-22, is regarded as the divine penalty for her sin,
i. 5, 8. Similarly in ii. 1-10 her sorrow and suffering are admitted
to be a divine judgment. Her shame and distress are inconsolable,
ii. 11-17, and she appeals to her God to look upon her in her agony,
ii. 18-22. The third poem, probably the latest in the book,
represents the city, after a bitter lament, iii. 1-21, as being
inspired, by the thought of the love of God, to submission and hope,
iii. 22-36. A prayer of penitence and confession, iii. 37-54, is
followed by a petition for vengeance upon the adversaries, iii. 55-66.
The fourth poem, like the second, offers a very vivid picture of the
sorrows and horrors of the siege: it laments, in detail, the fate of
the people, iv. 1-6, the princes, iv. 7-11, the priests and the prophets,
iv. 12-16, and the king, iv. 17-20, and ends with a prophecy of doom
upon the Edomites, iv. 21, 22, who behaved so cruelly after the siege
(Ps, cxxxvii. 7). In the last poem the city, after piteously lamenting
her manifold sorrows, v. 1-18, beseeches the everlasting God for
deliverance therefrom, v. 19-22.
[Footnote 1: In the Hebrew elegiac metre, as in the Greek and Latin,
the second line is shorter than the first--usually three beats
followed by two.]
[Footnote 2: An unconvincing attempt has been made to refer the last
two chapters to the Maccabean age--about 170 B.C.]

A very old and by no means unreasonable tradition assigns the
authorship of the book to Jeremiah. In the Greek version it is
introduced by the words--which appear to go back to a Hebrew
original--"And it came to pass, after Israel had been led captive
and Jerusalem made desolate, that Jeremiah sat down weeping, and
lifted up this lament over Jerusalem and said." This view of the
authorship is as old as the Chronicler, who in 2 Chronicles xxxv. 25
seems to refer the book to Jeremiah, probably regarding iv. 20,
which refers to Zedekiah, as an allusion to Josiah. Chs. ii. and iv.
especially are so graphic that they must have been written by an
eye-witness who had seen the temple desecrated and who had himself
tasted the horrors of a siege, in which the mothers had eaten their
own children for very hunger. The passionate love, too, for the
people, which breathes through the elegies might well be Jeremiah's;
and the ascription of the calamity to the sin of the people, i. 5,
8, is in the spirit of the prophet.

Nevertheless, it is not certain, or even very probable, that
Jeremiah is the author. Unlike the Greek and the English Bible, the
Hebrew Bible does not place the Lamentations immediately after
Jeremiah but in the third division, among the _Writings_, so
that there is really no initial presumption in favour of the
Jeremianic authorship. Again, Jeremiah could hardly have said that
"the prophets find no vision from Jehovah," ii. 8, nor described the
vacillating Zedekiah as "the breath of our nostrils," iv. 20, nor
attributed the national calamities to the sins of _the
fathers_, v. 7 Other features in the situation presupposed by ch.
v. appear to imply a time later than Jeremiah's, v. 18,20, and it is
very unlikely that one who was so sorely smitten as Jeremiah by the
inconsolable sorrow of Jerusalem would have expressed his grief in
alphabetic elegies: men do not write acrostics when their hearts are
breaking. When we add to this that chs. ii. and iv. which stand
nearest to the calamity appear to betray dependence on Ezekiel (ii.
14, iv. 20, Ezek. xxii. 28, xix, 24, etc.) there is little
probability that the poems are by Jeremiah.

It is not even certain that they are all from the same hand, as,
unless we transpose two verses, the alphabetic order of the first
poem differs from that of the other three, and the number of
elegiacs--three--in each verse of the first two poems, differs from
the number--one--in the third, and two in the fourth. In the third
poem each letter has three verses to itself; in the other three
poems, only one.

Ch. iii. with its highly artificial structure and its tendency to
sink into the gnomic style, iii. 26ff., is probably remotest of all
from the calamity.[1] Considering the general hopelessness of the
outlook, chs. ii. and iv. at any rate, which are apparently the
earliest, were probably composed before the pardon of Jehoiachin in
561 B.C. (2 Kings xxv. 27) when new possibilities began to dawn for
the exiles. 580-570 may be accepted as a probable date. The calamity
is near enough to be powerfully felt, yet remote enough to be an
object of poetic contemplation. The other poems are no doubt later:
ch. v. may as well express the sorrow of the returned exiles as the
sorrow of the exile itself. More than this we cannot say.
[Footnote 1: The intensely personal words at the beginning of ch.
iii. are, no doubt, to be interpreted collectively. The "man who has
seen affliction" is not Jeremiah, but the community, Cf. _v_.
14, "I am become the laughing stock of all nations" (emended text).
Cf. also _v_. 45.]

The older parts of the book, whether written in Egypt, Babylon, or
more probably in Judah, are of great historic value, as offering
minute and practically contemporary evidence for the siege of
Jerusalem (cf. ii. 9-12) and as reflecting the hopelessness which
followed it. Yet the hopelessness is by no means unrelieved. Besides
the prayer to God who abideth for ever, v. 19, is the general
teaching that good may be won from calamity, in. 24-27, and, above
all, the beautiful utterance that "the love of Jehovah never
ceases[1] and His pity never fails," iii. 22.
[Footnote 1: Grammar and parallelism alike suggest the emendation on
which the above translation rests.]




ECCLESIASTES


It is not surprising that the book of Ecclesiastes had a struggle to
maintain its place in the canon, and it was probably only its
reputed Solomonic authorship and the last two verses of the book
that permanently secured its position at the synod of Jamnia in 90
A.D. The Jewish scholars of the first century A.D. were struck by
the manner in which it contradicted itself: e.g., "I praised the
dead more than the living," iv. 2, "A living dog is better than a
dead lion," ix. 4; but they were still more distressed by the spirit
of scepticism and "heresy" which pervaded the book (cf. xi. 9 with
Num. xv. 39).

In spite of the opening verse, it is very plain that Solomon could
not have been the author of the book. Not only in i. 12 is his reign
represented as over--I _was_ king--though Solomon was on the
throne till his death, but in i. 16, ii. 7, 9, he is contrasted with
all--apparently all the kings--that were before him in Jerusalem,
though his own father was the founder of the dynasty. There is no
probability that Solomon would have so scathingly assailed the
administration of justice for which he himself was responsible, as
is done in iii. 16, iv. i, v. 8. The sigh in xii. 12 over the
multiplicity of books is thoroughly inappropriate to the age of
Solomon.

Indeed the whole manner in which the problem is attacked is
inappropriate to so early a stage of literary and religious
development. But it was by a singularly happy stroke that Solomon
was chosen by a later thinker as the mouthpiece of his reflections
on life; for Solomon, with his wealth, buildings, harem,
magnificence, had had opportunity to test life at every point, and
his exceptional wisdom would give unique value to his judgment.

Ecclesiastes is undoubtedly one of the latest books in the Old
Testament. The criteria for determining the date are chiefly three.
(1) _Linguistic_. Alike in its single words (e.g., preference
for abstract nouns ending in _th_) its syntax (e.g., the
almost entire absence of waw conversive) and its general linguistic
character, the book illustrates the latest development of the Hebrew
language. There are not a few words which occur elsewhere only in
Chronicles, Ezra, Nehemiah, Esther: there are some pure Aramaic
words, some words even which belong to the Hebrew of the Mishna.
Even if we allow an early international use of Aramaic, the corrupt
Hebrew of the book would alone compel us to place it very late. Some
have sought to strengthen the argument for a late date from the
presence of Greek influence on the _language_ of the book,
e.g., in such phrases as "under the sun," "to behold the sun," "the
good which is also beautiful," v. 18; but, probable as it may be, it
is not certain that there are Graecisms in the language of
Ecclesiastes.[1]
[Footnote 1: Cf. A. H. McNeile, _Introduction to Ecclesiastes_,
p. 43.]

(2) _Historical_. There is much interesting detail which is
clearly a transcript of the author's experience: the slaves he had
seen on horseback, x. 7, the poor youth who became king, iv. 13-16
(cf. ix. 14ff.). These incidents, however, are too lightly touched,
and we know too little of the history of the period, to be able to
locate them definitely. The woe upon the land whose king is a child,
x. 16, has been repeatedly connected with the time of Ptolemy V.
Epiphanes (205-181 B.C.), the last of his house who ruled over
Palestine and who at his father's death was little over four years
old. However that may be, the general historical background is
unmistakably that of the late post-exilic age. The book bears the
stamp of an evil time, when injustice and oppression were the order
of the day, iii. 16, iv. 1, v. 8, government was corrupt and
disorderly and speech dangerous, x. 20. The allusions would suit the
last years of the Persian empire (333); but if, as the linguistic
evidence suggests, the book is later, it can hardly be placed before
250 B.C., as during the earlier years of the Greek period, Palestine
was not unhappy.

(3) _Philosophical_. The speculative mood of the book marks it
as late. Though not an abstract discussion--the Old Testament is
never abstract--it is more abstract than the kindred discussion in
the book of Job. It is hard to believe that Ecclesiastes was not
affected by the Greek philosophical influences of the time. If it be
not necessary to trace its contempt of the world to Stoicism, or its
inculcation of the wise enjoyment of the passing moment directly to
Epicureanism, at least an indirect influence can hardly be denied.
Greek thought was spreading as the Greek language was; and the
scepticism of Ecclesiastes, though not without parallels in earlier
stages of Hebrew literature, yet here assumes a deliberate,
sustained and all but philosophic form, which finds its most natural
explanation in the profound and pervasive influence of Greek
philosophy--an influence which could hardly be escaped by an age in
which books had multiplied and study been prosecuted till it was a
burden, xii. 12.

This "charming book," as Renan calls it, has in many ways more affinity
with the modern mind than any other in the Old Testament. It  is weary
with the weight of an insoluble problem. With a cold-blooded frankness,
which is not cynical, only because it is so earnest, it faces the stern
facts of human life, without being able to bring to their interpretation
the sublime inspirations of religion. More than once is the counsel
given to fear God, but it is not offered as a _solution_ of the
riddle. The world is crooked, i. 15, vii. 13, and no change is possible,
iii. 1-8. It is a weary round of contradictions, birth and death, peace
and war, the former state annihilated by the latter; and by reason of the
fixity of these contradictions and the certainty of that annihilation,
all human effort is vain, iii. 9. It is all alike vanity--not only the
meaner struggles for food and drink and pleasure (ii.) but even the
nobler ambitions of the soul, such as its yearning for wisdom and
knowledge. Whether we turn to the physical or the moral world it is
all the same. There is no goal in nature (i.): history runs on and
runs nowhere. All effort is swallowed up by death. Man is no better
than a beast, iii. 19; beyond the grave there is nothing. Everywhere
is disillusionment, and woman is the bitterest of all, vii. 26. The
moral order is turned upside down. Wrong is for ever on the throne.
Providence, if there be such a thing, seems to be on the side of
cruelty. Tears stand on many a face, but the mourners must remain
uncomforted, iv. 1. The just perish and the wicked live long, vii.
15. The good fare as the bad ought to fare, and the bad as the good,
viii. 14. Better be dead than live in such a world, iv. 2; nay,
better never have been born at all, vi. 3. For all is vanity: that
is the beginning of the matter, i. 2, it is no less the end, xii. 8.
Over every effort and aspiration is wrung this fearful knell.

Sad conclusion anywhere, but especially sad for a Jew to reach!
Indeed he contradicts some of the dearest and most fundamental
tenets of the Jewish faith. Many a devout contemporary must have
been horrified at the dictum that man had no pre-eminence above a
beast, or that the world, which he had been taught to believe was
very good (Gen. i, 31) was one great vanity. The preacher could not
share the high hopes of a Messianic kingdom to come, of resurrection
and immortality, which consoled and inspired many men of his day. To
him life was nothing but dissatisfaction ending in annihilation. If
this is not pessimism, what is?

But is this all? Not exactly. For "the light is sweet, and a pleasant
thing it is for the eyes to behold the sun," xi. 7. Over and over
again the counsel is given to eat and drink and enjoy good, ii. 24;
and despite the bitter criticism of woman already alluded to, a wife
can make life more than tolerable, ix. 9. Nor does the book display
the thorough-going rejection of religion which the previous sketch of
it would have led us to expect. It is pessimistic, but not atheistic;
nay, it believes not only in God but in a judgment, iii. 17, xi. 9_b_,
though not necessarily in the hereafter. There is considerable
extravagance in Cornill's remark that "never did Old Testament piety
celebrate a greater triumph than in the book of Ecclesiastes"; but
there is enough to show that the book is, after its own peculiar
melancholy fashion, a religious book. It is significant, however,
that the context of the word God, which only occurs some twenty times,
is often very sombre. He it is who has "given travail to the sons of
men to be exercised therewith," i. 13, iii. 10, cf. esp. iii. 18.
Again, if the writer has any real belief in a day of judgment, why
should he so persistently emphasize the resultlessness of life and
deny the divine government of the world? "The fate of all is the
same-just and unjust, pure and impure. As fares the good, so fares the
sinner," ix. 2. This is a direct and deliberate challenge of the law
of retribution in which the writer had been brought up. It may be
urged, of course, that his belief in a divine judgment is a postulate
of his faith which he retains, though he does not find it verified by
experience. But such words--and there are many such--seem to carry us
much farther. Here, then, is the essential problem of the book. Can
it be regarded as a unity?

Almost every commentator laments the impossibility of presenting a
continuous and systematic exposition of the argument in
Ecclesiastes, or Qoheleth, as the book is called in the Hebrew
Bible.

The truth is that, though the first three chapters are in the main
coherent and continuous, little order or arrangement can be detected
in the rest of the book. Various explanations have been offered.
Bickell, e.g., supposed that the leaves had by some accident become
disarranged--a supposition not wholly impossible, but highly
improbable, especially when we consider that the Greek translation
reads the book in the same order as the Hebrew text. Others suppose
with equal improbability that the book is a sort of dialogue, in
which each speaker maintains his own thesis, while the epilogue,
xii. 13f, pronounces the final word on the discussion. One thing is
certain, that various moods are represented in the book: the
question is whether they are the moods of one man or of several.
Baudissin thinks it not impossible that, "apart from smaller
interpolations, the book as a whole is the reflection of the
struggle of one and the same author towards a view of the world
which he has not yet found."

Note the phrase "apart from interpolations." Even the most cautious
and conservative scholars usually admit that the facts constrain
them to believe in the presence of interpolations: e.g., xi. 9b and
xii. la are almost universally regarded in this light. The
difficulties occasioned by the book are chiefly three. (1) Its
fragmentary character. Ch. x.; e.g., looks more like a collection of
proverbs than anything else. (2) Its abrupt transitions: e.g., vii.
19, 20. "Wisdom strengtheneth the wise more than ten men that are in
a city: for there is not a righteous man on the earth." This may be
another aspect of (1). But (3) more serious and important are the
undoubted contradictions of the book, some of which had been noted
by early Jewish scholars. E.g., there is nothing better than to eat
and drink, ii. 24; it is better to go to the house of mourning than
to the house of feasting, vii. 2. In iii. 1-8 times are so fixed and
determined that human labour is profitless, iii. 9, while in iii. 11
this inflexible order is not an oppressive but a beautiful thing. In
viii. 14, ix. 2 (cf. vii. 15) the fate of the righteous and the
wicked is the same, in viii. 12, 13, it is different: it is well
with the one and ill with the other. In iii. 16, which is radically
pessimistic (cf. _vv_. 18-21), there is no justice: in iii. 17
a judgment is coming. Better death than life, iv. 2, better life
than death, ix. 4 (cf. xi. 7). In i. 17 the search for wisdom is a
pursuit of the wind: in ii. 13 wisdom excels folly as light
darkness. Ch. ii. 22 emphasizes the utter fruitlessness of labour,
iii. 22 its joy. These contradictions are too explicit to be
ignored. Indeed sometimes their juxtaposition forces them upon the
most inattentive reader; as when viii. 12, 13 assert that it is well
with the righteous and ill with the wicked, whereas viii. 14 asserts
that the wicked often fare as the just should fare and vice versa;
and that this is the author's real opinion is made certain by the
occurrence of the melancholy refrain at the end of the verse.

Different minds will interpret these contradictions differently.
Some will say they are nothing but the reflex of the contradictions
the preacher found to run through life, others will say that they
represent him in different moods. But they are too numerous,
radical, and vital to be disposed of so easily. There can be no
doubt that the book is essentially pessimistic: it ends as well as
begins with Vanity of Vanities, xii. 8; and this must therefore have
been the ground-texture of the author's mind. Now it is not likely
to be an accident that the references to the moral order and the
certainty of divine judgment are not merely assertions: they can
usually, in their context, only be regarded as protests--as
protests, that is, against the context. That is very plain in ch.
iii., where the order of the world, _vv_. 1-8, which the
preacher lamented as profitless, _vv_. 9, 10, is maintained to
be beautiful, _v_. 11. It is equally plain in iii. 17, which
asserts the divine judgment, whereas the context, iii. 16, denies
the justice of earthly tribunals, and effectually shuts out the hope
of a brighter future by maintaining that man dies[1] like the beast,
_vv_. 18-21.
[Footnote 1: Ch. iii. 21 should read: "Who knoweth the spirit of
man, _whether_ it goeth upward?" This translation involves no
change in the consonantal text and is supported by the Septuagint.]

Of a similar kind, but on a somewhat lower religious level are the
frequent protests against the preacher's pessimistic assertions of
the emptiness of life and the vanity of effort. For the injunction
to eat and drink and enjoy the fruits of one's labour may, in their
contexts, also be fairly considered not simply as statements, but as
protests (cf. v. 18-20 with v. 13-17); for this glad love of life
was thoroughly representative of the ancient tradition of Hebrew
life (cf. Jeremiah's criticism of Josiah, xxii. 15.) Doubtless these
protests could come from the preacher's own soul; but, considering
all the phenomena, it is more natural to suppose that they were the
protests of others who were offended by the scepticism and the
pessimism of the book, which may well have had a wide circulation.

It now only remains to ask whether books regarded as Scripture ever
received such treatment as is here assumed. Every one acquainted
with the textual phenomena of the Old Testament knows that this was
a common occurrence. The Greek-speaking Jews, translating about or
before the time at which Ecclesiastes was written, altered the simple
phrase in Exodus xxiv. 10, "They saw the God of Israel," to "They saw
the place where the God of Israel stood." In Psalm lxxxiv. 11 they
altered "God is a sun (or pinnacle?) and shield" to "God loves mercy
and truth." They altered "God" to "an angel" in Job xx. 15, "God will
cast them (i.e., the riches) out of his belly"; or even to "an angel
will cast them out of his house." These alterations have no other
authority than the caprice of the translators, acting in the interests
of a purer, austerer, but more timid theology. At the end of the Greek
version of the book of Job, which adds, "It is written that Job will
rise again with those whom the Lord doth raise," we see how deliberately
an insertion could be made in theological interests. The liberties which
the Greek-speaking Jews thus demonstrably took with the text of
Scripture, we further know that the Hebrew-speaking Jews did not
hesitate to take. A careful comparison of the text of such books as
Samuel and Kings with Chronicles[1] shows that similar changes were
deliberately made, and made by pious men in theological interests. We are
thus perfectly free to suppose that the original text of Ecclesiastes,
which must have given great offence to the stricter Jews of the
second century B.C., was worked over in the same way.
[Footnote 1: Cf., e.g., the substitution of Satan in 1 Chron. xxi. 1
for Jehovah in 2 Sam. xxiv. 1.]

It would be impossible to apportion the various sections or verses
of the book with absolute definiteness among various writers; in the
nature of the case, such analyses will always be more or less
tentative. But on the whole there can be little doubt that the
original book, which can be best estimated by the more or less
continuous section, i.-iii., was pervaded by a spirit of almost, if
not altogether, unqualified pessimism. This received correction or
rather protest from two quarters: from one writer of happier soul,
who believed that the earth was Jehovah's (Ps. xxiv. 1) and, as
such, was not a vanity, but was full of His goodness; and from a
pious spirit, who was offended and alarmed by the preacher's
dangerous challenge of the moral order, and took occasion to assure
his readers of the certainty of a judgment and of the consequent
wisdom of fearing God. On any view of the book it is difficult to
see the relevance of the collection of proverbs in ch. x.

If this view be correct, the epilogue, xii. 9-14, can hardly have
formed part of the original pessimistic book. The last two verses,
in particular, are conceived in the spirit of the pious protest
which finds frequent expression in the book; and it is easy to
believe that the words saved the canonicity of Ecclesiastes, if
indeed they were not added for that very purpose. The reference to
the commandments in _v_. 13 is abrupt, and almost without
parallel, viii. 5. Again, the preacher, who speaks throughout the
book in the first person, is spoken of here in the third, _v_.
9; and, as in no other part of the book, the reader is addressed as
"my son" _v_. 12 (cf. Prov. i. 8., ii. 1, iii. 1).

The value of Ecclesiastes is negative rather than positive. It is
the nearest approach to despair possible upon the soil of Old
Testament piety. It is the voice of a faith, if faith it can be
called, which is not only perplexed with the search, but weary of
it; but it shows how deep and sore was the need of a Redeemer.




ESTHER


The spirit of the book of Esther is anything but attractive. It is
never quoted or referred to by Jesus or His apostles, and it is a
satisfaction to think that in very early times, and even among Jewish
scholars, its right to a place in the canon was hotly contested. Its
aggressive fanaticism and fierce hatred of all that lay outside of
Judaism were felt by the finer spirits to be false to the more
generous instincts that lay at the heart of the Hebrew religion; but
by virtue of its very intensity and exclusiveness it as all the more
welcome to average representatives of later Judaism, among whom it
enjoyed an altogether unique popularity, attested by its three Targums
and two distinct Greek recensions[1]--indeed, one rabbi places it on
an equality with the law, and therefore above the prophets and the
"writings."
[Footnote 1: It is probable also that the two decrees, one commanding
the celebration for two days, ix. 20-28, the other enjoining fasting
and lamentations, ix. 29-32, are later additions, designed to incorporate
the practice of a later time.]

The story is well told. The queen of Xerxes, king of Persia, is
deposed for contumacy, and her crown is set upon the head of Esther,
a lovely Jewish maiden. Presently the whole Jewish race is
imperilled by an act of Mordecai, the foster-father of Esther, who
refuses to do obeisance to Haman, a powerful and favourite courtier.
Haman's plans for the destruction of the Jews are frustrated by
Esther, acting on a suggestion of Mordecai. The courtier himself
falls from power, and is finally hanged on the gallows he had
prepared for Mordecai, while Mordecai "the Jew" is exalted to the
place next the king, and the Jews, whom the initial decree had
doomed to extermination, turn the tables by slaying over 75,000 of
their enemies throughout the empire, including the ten sons of
Haman. In memory of the deliverance, the Purim festival is
celebrated on the 14th and 15th of the month Adar.

The popularity of the book was due, no doubt, most of all to the
power with which it expresses some of the most characteristic, if
almost most odious, traits of Judaism; but also in a measure to its
attractive literary qualities. The setting is brilliant, and the
development of the incident is often skilful and dramatic, The
elevation of Mordecai, due to the simple accident of the king's
having passed a sleepless night, the unexpected accusation of Haman
by Esther, the swift and complete reversal of the situation by which
Haman is hanged upon his own gallows and Mordecai receives the royal
ring--the general sequence of incidents is conceived and elaborated
with considerable dramatic power.

The large number of proper names, the occasional reference to
 chronicles, ii. 23, vi. 1, and the precise mention of dates, combine
to raise the presumption that the book is real history; but a glance
at the facts is sufficient to dispel this presumption. The story falls
within the reign of Xerxes--about 483 B.C., but the hero Mordecai is
represented as being one of the exiles deported with Jehoiachin in
597 B.C. This is a manifest impossibility. Equally impossible is it
that a Jewish maiden can have become the queen of Persia, in the face
of the express statement of Herodotus (iii. 84) that the king was
bound to choose his consort from one of seven noble Persian families.
These impossibilities are matched by numerous improbabilities. It is
improbable, e.g., that Mordecai could have had such free intercourse
with the harem, ii. 11, unless he had been a eunuch, or in the palace,
ii. 19, unless he had been a royal official. It is improbable that
Xerxes would have announced the date of the massacre months beforehand,
improbable that he would later have sanctioned so indiscriminate a
slaughter of his non-Jewish subjects, and most improbable of all that
the Jews, who were in the minority, should have slain 75,000 of their
enemies, who cannot be supposed to have been defenceless. It is much
more likely that this wholesale butchery took place chiefly in the
author's imagination, though doubtless the wish was father to the
thought. Clearly he wrote long after the events he claims to be
describing, and the sense of historical perspective is obscured where
it is not lost. The Persian empire is a thing of the relatively distant
past, i. 1, 13, and though the author is acquainted with Persian
customs and official titles, it is significant that the customs have
sometimes to be explained. The book is, in fact, not a history, but
a historical novel in miniature.

Its date is hard to fix, but it must be very late, probably the
latest in the Old Testament. In spite of its obvious attempt to
reproduce the classic Hebrew style, the book contains Aramaisms,
late Hebrew words and constructions, and the language alone stamps
it as late. Still more decisive, however, is its sentiment. Its
intensely national pride, its cruel and fanatical exclusiveness, can
be best explained as the result of a fierce persecution followed by
a brilliant triumph; and this condition is exactly met by the period
which succeeded the Maccabean wars (135 B.C. or later). The book,
with its Persian setting, may indeed have been written earlier in
Persia; but it more probably represents a phase of the fierce
Palestinian Judaism of the last half of the second century B.C. It
has been suggested with much probability that Haman is modelled on
Antiochus Epiphanes; between their murderous designs against the
Jews there is certainly a strong resemblance, iii. 9, 1 Macc. i. 41,
iii. 34-36.

The object of the book appears to have been twofold: to explain the
origin of the Purim festival, and to glorify the Jewish people. The
real explanation of the festival is shrouded in mystery. The book
traces it to the triumph of the Jews over their enemies and connects
it with _Pur_, ix. 26, supposed to mean "lot"; but no such
Persian word has yet been discovered. Doubtless, however, the book
is correct in assigning the origin of the festival to Persia. A
festival with a somewhat dissimilar name--Farwardign--was held in
Persia in spring to commemorate the dead, and there may be just a
hint of this in the fasting with which the festival was preceded,
ix. 31, cf. 1 Sam. xxxi. 13, 2 Sam. i. 12. The Babylonians had also
held a new year festival in spring, at which the gods, under the
presidency of Marduk, were supposed to draw the lots for the coming
year: this may have been the ultimate origin of the "lot," which is
repeatedly emphasized in the book of Esther, iii. 7, ix. 24, 26. In
other words, the Jews adopted a Persian festival, which had already
incorporated older Babylonian elements; for there can be little
doubt that the ultimate ground-work of the book is Babylonian
mythology. Esther is so similar to Istar, and Mordecai to Marduk,
that their identity is hardly questionable; and in the overthrow of
Haman by Mordecai it is hard not to see the reproduction of the
overthrow of Hamman, the ancient god of the Elamites, the enemies of
the Babylonians, by Marduk, god of the Babylonians. This supposition
leaves certain elements unexplained--Vashti, e.g., is without
Babylonian analogy, but it is too probable an explanation to be
ignored; and it goes to illustrate the profound and lasting
influence of Babylonia upon Israel. The similarity of the name
Esther to Am_estr_is, who was Xerxes' queen (Hdt. vii. 114, ix.
112) may account for the story being set in the reign of Xerxes.

A collateral purpose of the book is the glorification of the Jews.
In the dramatic contest between Haman the Agagite and Mordecai the
Jew, the latter is victor. He refuses to bow before Haman, and
Providence justifies his refusal; for the Jews are born to dominion,
and all who oppose or oppress them must fall. Everywhere their
superiority is apparent: Esther the Jewess is fairer than Vashti,
and Mordecai, like Joseph in the old days, takes his place beside
the king.

What we regretfully miss in the book is a truly religious note. It
is national to the core; but, for once in the Old Testament,
nationality is not wedded to a worthy conception of God. Too much
stress need not be laid on the absence of His name--this may have
been due to the somewhat secular character of the festival with its
giving and receiving of presents--and the presence of God, as the
guardian of the fortunes of Israel, is presupposed throughout the
whole story, notably in Mordecai's confident hope that enlargement
and deliverance would arise to the Jews from one place, if not from
another, iv. 14. But the religion of the book--for religion it is
entitled to be called--is absolutely destitute of ethical elements.
It is with a shudder that we read of Esther's request for a second
butchery, ix. 13; and all the romantic glamour of the story cannot
blind us to its religious emptiness and moral depravity. In a
generation which had smarted under the persecution of Antiochus and
shed its blood in defence of its liberty and ancestral traditions,
such bitter fanaticism is not unintelligible. But the popularity of
the book shows how little the prophetic elements in Israel's
religion had touched the people's heart, and how stubborn a
resistance was sure to be offered to the generous and emancipating
word of Jesus.




DANIEL


Daniel is called a prophet in the New Testament (Matt. xxiv. 15). In
the Hebrew Bible, however, the book called by his name appears not
among the prophets, but among "the writings," between Esther and
Ezra. The Greek version placed it between the major and the minor
prophets, and this has determined its position in modern versions.
The book is both like and unlike the prophetic books. It is like
them in its passionate belief in the overruling Providence of God
and in the sure consummation of His kingdom; but in its peculiar
symbolism, imagery, and pervading sense of mystery it stands without
a parallel in the Old Testament. The impulse to the type of prophecy
represented by Daniel was given by Ezekiel and Zechariah. The book
is indeed rather apocalyptic than prophetic. The difference has been
well characterized by Behrmann. "The essential distinction," he
remarks, "between prophecy and apocalyptic lies in this: the
prophets teach that the present is to be interpreted by the past and
future, while the apocalyptic writers derive the future from the
past and present, and make it an object of consolatory hope. With
the prophets the future is the servant and even the continuation of
the present; with the apocalyptic writers the future is the
brilliant counterpart of the sorrowful present, over which it is to
lift them." This will be made most plain by a summary of the book
itself.

Chs. i.-vi. are narrative in form; chs. vii.-xii. are prophetic or
apocalyptic--they deal with visions. Curiously enough ii. 4-vii. 28,
for no apparent reason, are written in Aramaic. In ch. i. Daniel and
his three friends, Jewish captives at the court of Babylon, prove
their fidelity to their religion by refusing to defile themselves
with the king's food. At the end of three years they show themselves
superior to the "wise" men of the empire. Then (ii.) follows a dream
of Nebuchadrezzar, in which a great image was shivered to pieces by
a little stone, which grew till it filled the whole world. Daniel
alone could retell and interpret the dream: it denoted a succession
of kingdoms, which would all be ultimately overthrown and succeeded
by the everlasting kingdom of God. Ch. iii. deals not with Daniel
but with his friends. It tells the story of their refusal to bow
before Nebuchadrezzar's colossal image of gold, and how their
fidelity was rewarded by a miraculous deliverance, when they were
thrown into the furnace of fire. The supernatural wisdom of Daniel
is again illustrated in ch. iv., where he interprets a curious dream
of Nebuchadrezzar as a token that he would be humbled for a time and
bereft of his reason. Ch. v. affords another illustration of the
wisdom of Daniel, and of the humiliation of impiety and pride, this
time in the person of Belshazzar, who is regarded as
Nebuchadrezzar's son. Daniel interprets the enigmatic words written
by the mysterious hand on the wall as a prediction of the overthrow
of Belshazzar's kingdom, which dramatically happens that very night.
Ch. vi. is intended to teach how precious to God are those who trust
Him and scrupulously conform to the practices of true religion
without regard to consequences. Daniel is preserved in the den of
lions into which he had been thrown by the cruel jealousy of the
officials of Darius' empire.

With ch. vii. Daniel's visions begin. Four great beasts are seen
coming up out of the sea, which, according to Babylonian mythology,
is the element opposed to the divine. The last of the beasts,
especially cruel and terrible, had ten horns, and among them a
little horn with human eyes and presumptuous lips. Then is seen the
divine Judge upon His throne, and the presumptuous beast is judged
and slain. Before this same Judge is brought one like a son of man,
who comes with the clouds of heaven--this human and heavenly figure
being in striking contrast to the beasts that rise out of the sea.
Daniel is informed that the beasts represent four kingdoms, whose
dominion is to be superseded by the dominion of the saints of the
most High, i.e. by the kingdom of God, which will be everlasting. In
a second vision (viii.) a powerful ram is furiously attacked and
overthrown by a goat. The angel Gabriel explains that the ram is the
Medo-Persian empire, and the goat is the king of Greece, clearly
Alexander the Great. From one of the four divisions of Alexander's
empire, a cunning, impudent and impious king would arise who would
abolish the daily sacrifice and lay the temple in ruins, but by a
miraculous visitation he would be destroyed. In ch. ix. Daniel,
after a fervent penitential prayer offered in behalf of his sinful
people, is enlightened by Gabriel as to the true meaning of
Jeremiah's prophecy (xxv. 11f., xxix. 10f.) touching the desolation
of Jerusalem. The seventy years are not literal years, but weeks of
years, i.e. 490 years. During the last week (i.e. seven years) there
would be much sorrow and persecution, especially during the last
half of that period, but it would end in the utter destruction of
the oppressor.

In another vision (x.-xii.) Daniel is informed by a shining one of a
struggle he had had, supported by Michael, with the tutelary angel
of Persia; and he makes a revelation of the future. The Persian
empire will be followed by a Greek empire, which will be divided
into four. In particular, alliances will be formed and wars made
between the kings of the north (no doubt Syria) and the south
(Egypt). With great elaboration and detail the fortunes of the king
of the north, who is called contemptible, xi. 21, are described: how
he desecrates the sanctuary, abolishes the sacrifice, cruelly
persecutes the holy people, and prescribes idolatrous worship. At
last, however, he too perishes, and his death is the signal that the
Messianic days are very soon to dawn. Israel's dead--especially
perhaps her martyred dead--are to rise to everlasting life, and her
enemies are also to be raised to everlasting shame. Well is it for
him who can possess his soul in patience, for the end is sure.

Two facts are obvious even to a cursory inspection of the contents
of Daniel (1), that certain statements about the exilic period,
during which, according to the book, Daniel lived, are inaccurate;
and (2) towards the close of the book and especially in ch. xi.,
which represents a period long subsequent to Daniel, the visions are
crowded with minute detail which corresponds, point for point, with
the history of the third and second centuries B.C., and in
particular with the career of Antiochus Epiphanes (xi. 21-45).

(1) Among the unhistorical statements the following may be noted.
There was no siege and capture of Jerusalem by Nebuchadrezzar in 605
B.C., as is implied by i. 1 (cf. Jer. xxv. 1, 9-11), nor indeed
could there have been any till after the decisive battle of
Carchemish, which brought Western Asia under the power of Babylon.
Again, Belshazzar is regarded as the son of Nebuchadrezzar (v.),
though he was in reality the son of Nabunaid, between whom and
Nebuchadrezzar three monarchs lay. Nor is there any room in this
period of the history (538 B.C.) for "Darius the Mede," v. 31; the
conquest of Babylon threw the Babylonian empire immediately into the
hands of Cyrus, and the impossible figure of Darius the Mede appears
to arise through a confusion with the Darius who recaptured Babylon
after a revolt in 521, and perhaps to have been suggested by
prophecies (cf. Isa. xiii. 17) that the Medes would conquer Babylon.
Again, though in certain passages the Chaldeans represent the people
of that name, v. 30, ix. 1, in others (cf. ii. 2, v. 7) the word is
used to denote the wise men of Babylon--a use demonstrably much
later than the Babylonian empire and impossible to any contemporary
of Daniel. Such a seven years' insanity of Nebuchadrezzar as is
described in Daniel iv. is extremely improbable; equally improbable
is the attitude that Nebuchadrezzar in his decree (iii.) and
confession (iv.) and Darius in his decree (vi.) are represented as
having adopted towards the God of the Jews.

(2) Concerning the immediately succeeding period--from Cyrus to
Alexander--the author is apparently not well informed. He knows of
only four Persian kings, xi. 2 (cf. vii. 6). Ch. xi. 5-20 gives a
brief _rsum_ of the relations between the kings of the north
and the kings of the south--which, in this context, after a plain
allusion in _vv_. 3, 4 to Alexander the Great and the divisions
of his empire, can only be interpreted of Syria and Egypt. From
_v_. 21, however, to the end of ch. xi. interest is
concentrated upon one particular person, who must, in the context,
be a king of the north, i.e. Syria. The direct reference in
_v_. 31 to the pollution of the sanctuary, the temporary
abolition of sacrifice, and the erection of a heathen altar, put it
beyond all doubt that the impious and "contemptible" monarch is none
other than Antiochus Epiphanes. This conclusion is confirmed by the
details of the section, with their unmistakable references to his
Egyptian campaigns, _vv_. 25-28, and to the check imposed upon
him by the Romans, _v_. 30, in 168 B.C.

The phenomenon then with which we have to deal is this. A book
supposed to come from the exile, and to announce beforehand the
persecutions and ultimate triumph of the Jewish people in the second
century B.C. is occasionally inaccurate in dealing with the exilic
and early post-exilic period, but minute and reliable as soon as it
touches the later period. Only one conclusion is possible--that the
book was written in the later period, not in the earlier. _It is a
product of the period which it so minutely reflects_, 168-165
B.C. The precise date of the book depends upon whether we regard
viii. 14 as implying that the dedication of the temple by Judas
Maccabaeus in 165 B.C. is a thing of the past or still an object of
contemplation. In any case it must have been written before the
death of Antiochus in 164 (xi. 45). Like all the prophets, the
author of Daniel addresses his own age. The brilliant Messianic days
are always the issue of the existing or impending catastrophe; and
so it is in Daniel. The redemption which is to involve the
resurrection is to follow on the death of Antiochus and the
cessation of the horrors of persecution--horrors of which the author
knew only too well.[1]
[Footnote 1: Daniel is fittingly chosen as the hero of the book and
the recipient of the visions, as he appears to have enjoyed a
reputation for piety and wisdom (Ezek. xiv. 14, 20, xxviii. 3).
Ezekiel's references to him, however, would lead us to suppose that
he is a figure belonging to the gray patriarchial times, rather than
a younger contemporary of his own.]

Thus the belief in the late date of the book is reached by a study
of the book itself, and is not due to any prejudice against the
possibility of miracle or predictive prophecy. But the late date is
confirmed by evidence of other kinds, especially (1) linguistic, and
(2) theological. (1) There are over a dozen Persian words in the
book, some even in the Babylonian part of the story. These words
would place the book, at the earliest, within the period of the
Persian empire (538-331 B.C.). Further, within two verses, iii. 4,
5, occur no less than five Greek words (herald, harp, trigon,
psaltery and bagpipe), one of which, _psantern_, by its change
of l (psa_l_terion) into n, betrays the influence of the
Macedonian dialect and must therefore be later than the conquests of
Alexander, and another, _symphonia_, is first found in Plato.
Though it is not impossible that the names of the other musical
instruments may have been taken over by the Semites from the Greeks
at an early time, these words at any rate practically compel us to
put the book, at the earliest, within the Greek period (i.e. after
331 B.C.). Further, the Hebrew of the book has a strongly Aramaic
flavour. It is not classical Hebrew at all, but has marked
affinities, both in vocabulary and syntax, with some of the latest
books in the Old Testament, such as Chronicles and Esther.

(2) The theology of Daniel undoubtedly represents one of the latest
developments within the Old Testament. The transcendence of God is
emphasized. He is frequently called "the God of Heaven," ii. 18, 19,
and once "heaven" is used, as in the later manner (cf. Luke xv. 18)
almost as a synonym for "God," iv. 26. As God becomes more
transcendent, angels become more prominent: they constitute a very
striking feature in the book of Daniel--two of them are even named,
Gabriel and Michael. Very singular, too, and undoubtedly late is the
conception that the fortunes of each nation are represented and
guarded in heaven by a tutelary angel, x. 13ff. 20.

The view of the future life in xii. 2, 3 is the most advanced in the
Old Testament: not only the nation but the individuals shall be
raised, and of the individuals not only the good (cf. Isa. xxvi. 14,
19) but the bad, to receive the destiny which is their due. These
facts so conclusively suggest a late date for the book that it is
unnecessary to emphasize Daniel's prayer three times a day with his
face towards Jerusalem, vi. 10, though this is not without its
significance.[1]
[Footnote 1: It is worthy of notice that the reference to "the
books" from which the prophecy of Jeremiah is quoted in ix. 2 seems
to imply that the prophetic canon of Scripture was already closed;
and this was hardly the case before 200 B.C.]

The interpretation of this difficult book loses much of its
difficulty as soon as we recognize it to be a product of the time of
Antiochus Epiphanes. It is best to begin with ch. xi, for there the
allusions are, in the main, unmistakable and undeniable. Antiochus
is the last of the kings of the north, i.e. Syria, regarded as one
of the divisions of the Greek empire of Alexander the Great. Without
enigma or symbolism of any kind, the Persian empire is mentioned in
xi. 2 as preceding the Greek, and in _v_. 1 as being preceded
by the Median, which in its turn had been preceded by the
Babylonian. Here, then, in the plainest possible terms, is a
succession of four empires--Babylonian, Median, Persian, Greek--the
last to be succeeded by the kingdom of God (ch. xii.); and with this
key in our hand we can unlock the secret of chs. vii. and ii.

In ch. vii. the four kingdoms, represented by the four beasts and
contrasted with the humane kingdom which is to follow them, are no
doubt these very same kingdoms, as are also the four kingdoms of ch.
ii., symbolized by the different parts of the colossal image of
Nebuchadrezzar's dream: the little stone which destroys the image is
again the kingdom of God. In ch. viii. the ram with the two unequal
horns is the Medo-Persian empire, and the goat which overthrows the
ram is symbolic of the Greek empire, founded by Alexander.

These great features of the book are practically certain. It is
further extremely probable that, in spite of a noticeable difference
in the context, the "little horn" of viii. 9 is the same as the
little horn of vii. 8, 20: the detail of both descriptions--the war
with the saints, the destruction of the temple, the abolition of the
sacrifice--is an undisguised allusion to Antiochus Epiphanes in his
persecution of the faithful Jews and his efforts to extirpate their
religion. The one like a son of man in vii. 13 is almost certainly
not the Messiah: coming as he does with the clouds of heaven, he is
the symbol of the kingdom of God, in contrast to the beasts, which
emerge from the ungodly sea and symbolize the empires of this world.
Again, his being "like a man"--for this is probably all that the
phrase means--is meant to suggest that the kingdom of God is
essentially human and humane, in contrast to the four preceding
kingdoms, which are essentially brutal and cruel. This
interpretation, which the contrasts practically necessitate, is made
as certain as may be by _vv_. 18, 22, 27, where the kingdom and
dominion, which in _v_. 13 are assigned to one like a son of
man, are assigned in similar terms to "the people of the saints of
the most High," i.e. the faithful Jews.

The passages whose interpretation is least certain occur in ch. ix.
In each of two consecutive verses, _vv_ 25f., is a reference to
an "anointed one"--a different person being intended in each case.
The question of their identity involves the further question of the
precise interpretation of the prophecy of the seventy weeks. In ix.
2 Daniel is reminded by a study of Jeremiah (xxv. 11f., xxix. 10) of
the prophecy that the desolation of Jerusalem would last for seventy
years. But it is not over yet.[1] Gabriel then explains, _v_.
24, that the years are in reality weeks of years, i.e. by the
seventy years prophesied by Jeremiah are really meant 490 years. The
period of seventy weeks, thus interpreted, is further subdivided in
_vv_. 25, 26 (a passage almost unintelligible in the Authorized
Version) into three periods, viz. seven weeks (=forty-nine years),
sixty-two weeks, and one week (=seven years).
[Footnote 1: Another incidental proof that the book is late. In the
time presupposed by it for the activity of Daniel, the seventy years
had not yet expired, and so there could have been no problem.]

With the first and last periods there is no difficulty. Starting
from 586 B.C., the date of the exile, forty-nine years would bring
us to 537, just about the time assigned to the edict of Cyrus, which
permitted the Jews to return and rebuild their city. Cyrus would
thus be "the anointed, the prince," and it is an interesting
corroboration of this view that Cyrus is actually called the
anointed in Isaiah xlv. 1. Now, as the book ends with the
anticipated death of Antiochus in 164 B.C., the last week would
represent the years 171 to 164; and in 171 the high priest, who, as
such, would naturally be an anointed one, was assassinated.
Attention is specially called to the sorrows of the last half of the
last week, when the sacrifice would be taken away. This corresponds
almost exactly with the suspension of the temple services from 168
to 165; and this period, again, is that which is elsewhere
characterized as "a time, and times, and half a time," i.e. three
and a half years (vii. 25, xii. 7), or "2,300 evenings-mornings,"
i.e. 1,150 days (viii. 14) or 1,290 or 1,335 days (xii. 11, 12).
These varying estimates of the period, not differing widely,
probably suggest that the book was written at intervals, and not all
at once. The beginning and the close of the seventy weeks or 490
years are thus satisfactorily explained; but the period between 537
and 171 represents 366 instead of 434 years, as the sixty-two weeks
demand. Probably the simplest explanation of the difficulty is that
during much of this long period the Jews had no fixed method of
computing time. Also it ought not to be forgotten that the numbers
are, in any case, partly symbolical, and ought not to be too
strictly pressed. For the purposes of the author, the first and last
periods are more important than the middle.

The precise interpretation of the enigmatic writing on the wall
(_mene_, _tekel_, _peres_, v. 28) is uncertain. It
has been cleverly explained as equivalent to "a mina (=60 shekels),
a shekel and a part" (i.e. about sixty-two) and regarded as a
cryptogram for Darius, who, according to _v_. 31, was on the
eve of destroying Belshazzar's kingdom. More probably it simply
means "number, weigh, divide"--the ambiguity being caused by the
different possibilities of pointing and therefore of precisely
interpreting these words, which were of course unpointed in the
original. Further, in the word _peres_ (divide), there is a
veiled allusion to the Persians.

It is difficult to account for the fact that part of the book, ii.
4-vii., is written in Aramaic. It has been supposed that the author
began to use that language in ii. 4, either because he regarded that
as the language spoken by the wise men, or because they, being
aliens, must not be represented as speaking in the sacred tongue;
and that, having once begun to use it, and being equally familiar
with both languages, he kept it up till he came to the more purely
prophetic part of the book, in which he would naturally recur to the
more appropriate Hebrew. Ch. vii., on this view, is difficult to
account for, as it, no less than viii.-xii., is prophetic; and we
should then have to assume, rather unnaturally, that the vision in
ch. vii. was written in Aramaic because it so strongly resembled the
dream of ch. ii. Besides it is not certain that the word "in
Aramaic" in ii. 4 is meant to suggest that the wise men spoke in
that language: it may have originally been only a marginal note to
indicate that the Aramaic section begins here, just as vii.
28_a_ may indicate the end of the section. Some have supposed
that part of a book originally Hebrew was translated into the more
popular Aramaic, or that part of a book originally Aramaic was
translated into the sacred Hebrew tongue. The difficulty in either
case is to account reasonably for the presence of Aramaic in that
particular section which does not coincide with either of the main
divisions of the book (narrative or apocalyptic), but appears in
both (i.-vi., vii.-xii.). Probably, as Peters has suggested, the
Aramaic portion represents old and popular folk-stories about Daniel
and his friends, that language being retained because in it the
stories were familiarly told, while for the more prophetic or
apocalyptic message the sacred language was naturally used. Ch.
vii., however, presents a stumbling-block on any view of the Aramaic
section. The Aramaic of the book is that spoken when the book was
written: it was certainly not the language spoken by the Babylonian
wise men. It is most improbable that they would have used Aramaic at
all; and if they had, it would not have been the dialect of the book
of Daniel, which is a branch of western Aramaic, spoken in and
around Palestine.

In spite of its somewhat legendary and apocalyptic form, the
religious value of Daniel is very high. It is written at white heat
amid the fires of persecution, and it is inspired by a passionate
faith in God and in the triumph of His kingdom over the cruel and
powerful kingdoms of the world. Its object was to sustain the tried
and tempted faith of the loyal Jews under the fierce assaults made
upon it by Antiochus Epiphanes. Never before had there been so awful
a crisis in Jewish history. In 586 the temple had been destroyed,
but that was practically only an incident in or the consequence of
the destruction of the city; but Antiochus had made a deliberate
attempt to exterminate the Jewish religion. It was to console and
strengthen the faithful in this crisis that the book was written.
The author reminds his readers that there is a God in heaven, and
that He reigns, iv. 26. He bids them lift their eyes to the past and
shows them how the fidelity of men like Daniel and his friends was
rewarded by deliverance from the lions and the flames. He bids them
lift their eyes to the future, the very near future: let them only
be patient a little longer, xii. 12, and their enemies will be
crushed, and the kingdom of God will come--that kingdom which shall
know no end.

It is of especial interest that Antiochus died at the time when our
author predicted he would, in 164 B.C., though not, as he had
anticipated, in Palestine, xi. 45. In the kingdom that was so
swiftly coming, the lives that had been lost on its behalf would be
found again: the martyrs would rise to everlasting life. The
narrative parts have an application to the times not much less
immediate than the apocalyptic. The proud and mighty, like
Nebuchadrezzar, are humbled: the impious, like Belshazzar, who drank
wine out of the temple vessels, are slain. Any contemporary, reading
these tales, would be bound to think of Antiochus, who had
demolished the temple and suspended the sacrifices. So Daniel's
refusal to partake of the king's food was well calculated to
encourage men who had been put to the torture for declining to eat
swine's flesh.

Man's extremity is God's opportunity. However cruel the sufferings
or desperate the outlook, yet the Lord is mindful of His own, and He
will Himself deliver them. For one of the most impressive features
of the book is its utter confidence in God and its refusal to appeal
to the sword (Ps. cxlix. 6). It counsels to patience, xii. 12.
Without human hands, God's kingdom comes, ii. 34, and His enemies
are destroyed, viii. 25. In the most skilful way, the book reaches
its splendid climax. It moves steadily on, from a distant past in
which God's servants had been rewarded and His enemies crushed, down
through the centuries in which successive empires were all
unconsciously working out His predetermined plan, and on to the
darkest days in history--so dark, because the glorious and
everlasting kingdom of God was so soon to dawn.




EZRA-NEHEMIAH


Some of the most complicated problems in Hebrew history as well as
in the literary criticism of the Old Testament gather about the
books of Ezra and Nehemiah. Apart from these books, all that we know
of the origin and early history of Judaism is inferential. They are
our only historical sources for that period; and if in them we have,
as we seem to have, authentic memoirs, fragmentary though they be,
written by the two men who, more than any other, gave permanent
shape and direction to Judaism, then the importance and interest of
these books is without parallel in the Old Testament, for nowhere
else have we history written by a contemporary who shaped it.

It is just and practically necessary to treat the books of Ezra and
Nehemiah together. Their contents overlap, much that was done by
Ezra being recorded in the book of Nehemiah (viii.-x.). The books
are regarded as one in the Jewish canon; the customary notes
appended to each book, stating the number of verses, etc., are
appended only to Nehemiah and cover both books; the Septuagint also
regards them as one. There are serious gaps in the narrative, but
the period they cover is at least a century (538-432 B.C.). A brief
sketch of the books as they stand will suggest their great
historical interest and also the historical problems they involve.

In accordance with a decree of Cyrus in 538 B.C. the exiled Jews
return to Jerusalem to build the temple (Ezra i.). Then follows a
list of those who returned, numbering 42,360 (ii.). An altar was
erected, the feast of booths was celebrated, and the regular
sacrificial system was resumed. Next year, amid joy and tears, the
foundation of the temple was laid (iii.). The request of the
Samaritans for permission to assist in the building of the temple
was refused, with the result that they hampered the activity of the
Jews continuously till 520 B.C. (iv, 1-5, 24). Similar opposition
was also offered during the reigns of Xerxes and Artaxerxes, when
the governor of Samaria formally accused the Jews before the Persian
government of aiming at independence in their efforts to rebuild the
city walls, and in consequence the king ordered the suspension of
the building until further notice, iv. 6-23. Under the stimulus of
the preaching of Haggai and Zechariah, the real work of building the
temple was begun in 520 B.C. The enterprise roused the suspicion of
the Persian governor, who promptly communicated with Darius. The
Jews had appealed to the decree of Cyrus granting them permission to
build, and this decree was found, after a search, at Ecbatana.
Whereupon Darius gave the Jews substantial support, the buildings
were finished and dedicated in 516 B.C., and a great passover feast
was held (v., vi.).

The scene now shifts to a period at any rate fifty-eight years later
(458 B.C.) Armed with a commission from Artaxerxes, Ezra the scribe,
of priestly lineage, arrived, with a company of laity and clergy, at
Jerusalem from Babylon, with the object of investigating the
religious condition of Judah and of teaching the law (vii.). Before
leaving Babylon he had proclaimed a fast with public humiliation and
prayer, and taken scrupulous precautions to have the offerings for
the temple safely delivered at Jerusalem. When they reached the
city, they offered a sumptuous burnt-offering and sin-offering
(viii.). Soon complaints are lodged with Ezra that leading men have
been guilty of intermarriage with heathen women, and he pours out
his soul in a passionate prayer of confession (ix.). A penitent mood
seizes the people; Ezra summons a general assembly, and establishes
a commission of investigation, which, in about three months,
convicted 113 men of intermarriage with foreign women (x.).

The history now moves forward about fourteen years (444 B.C.).
Nehemiah, a royal cup-bearer in the Persian palace, hears with
sorrow of the distress of his countrymen in Judea, and of the
destruction of the walls of Jerusalem (Neh. i.). With the king's
permission, and armed with his support, he visited Jerusalem, and
kindled in the whole community there the desire to rebuild the walls
(ii.). The work was prosecuted with vigour, and, with one exception,
participated in by all (iii.). The foreign neighbours of Jerusalem,
provoked by their success, meditated an attack--a plan which was,
however, frustrated by the preparations of Nehemiah (iv.). Nehemiah,
being interested in the social as well as the political condition of
the community, unflinchingly rebuked the unbrotherly treatment of
the poor by the rich, appealing to his own very different conduct,
and finally induced the nobles to restore to the poor their
mortgaged property (v.). By cunning plots, the enemy repeatedly but
unsuccessfully sought to secure the person of Nehemiah; and in
fifty-two days the walls were finished (vi.). He then placed the
city in charge of two officials, taking precautions to have it
strongly guarded and more thickly peopled (vii.).

At a national assembly, Ezra read to the people from the book of the
law, and they were moved to tears. They celebrated the feast of
booths, and throughout the festival week the law was read daily
(viii.). The people, led by the Levites (under Ezra, ix. 6, lxx.),
made a humble confession of sin (ix.), and the prayer issued in a
covenant to abstain from intermarriage with the heathen and trade on
the Sabbath day, and to support the temple service (x.).

The population of the city was increased by a special draft,
selected by lot from those resident outside, and also by a body of
volunteers (xi.). After a series of lists of priestly and Levitical
houses, one of which[1] is carried down to the time of Alexander the
Great, xii. 1-26, the walls were formally dedicated, and steps were
taken to secure the maintenance of the temple service and officers,
xii. 27-47. On his return to Jerusalem in 432 B.C. Nehemiah enforced
the sanctity of the temple, and instituted various reforms,
affecting especially the Levitical dues, the sanctity of the
Sabbath, and intermarriage with foreigners, xiii.
[Footnote 1: According to Josephus, Jaddua (Neh. xii. 22) was high
priest in the time of Alexander (about 330 B.C.?).]

The difficulties involved in this presentation of the history are of
two kinds--inconsistencies with assured historical facts, and
improbabilities. Perhaps the most important illustration of the
former is to be found in Ezra iii. There not only is an altar
immediately built by the returned exiles--a statement not in itself
improbable--but the foundation of the temple is laid soon after,
iii. 10, and the ceremony is elaborately described (536 B.C.). The
foundation is also presupposed for this period elsewhere in the book
(cf. v. 16, in an Aramaic document). Now this statement is at least
formally contradicted by v. 2, where it is expressly said that,
under the stimulus of the preaching of Haggai and Zechariah, who did
not prophesy till 520 B.C., Zerubbabel and Joshua _began_ to
build the house of God. This is confirmed by the very explicit
statements of these two prophets themselves, whose evidence, being
contemporary, is unchallengeable. Haggai gives the very day of the
foundation, ii. 18, and Zechariah iv. 9 says, "The hands of
Zerubbabel have laid the foundation of this house." It is not
impossible to surmount the difficulty by assuming that the laying of
the foundation in 536 B.C. was a purely formal ceremony while the
real work was not begun till 520; still, it is awkward for this view
that the language of two contemporary prophets is so explicit. And
in any case, the statement in Ezra v. 16 that "since that time (i.e.
536) even until now (520) hath the temple been in building" is not
easy to reconcile with what we know from contemporary sources; the
whole brunt of Haggai's indictment is that the people have been
attending to their own houses and neglecting Jehovah's house, which
is in consequence desolate (Hag. i. 4, 9).

The most signal illustration of the improbabilities that arise from
the traditional order of the book lies in the priority of Ezra to
Nehemiah. On the common view, Ezra arrives in Jerusalem in 458 B.C.
(Ezra vii. 7, 8), Nehemiah in 444 (Neh. ii. 1). But the situation
which Ezra finds on his arrival appears to presuppose a settled and
orderly life, which was hardly possible until the city was fortified
and the walls built by Nehemiah; indeed, Ezra, in his prayer,
mentions the erection of the walls as a special exhibition of the
divine love (Ezra ix. 9). Further, Nehemiah's memoirs make no
allusion to the alleged measures of Ezra; and, if Ezra really
preceded Nehemiah, it is difficult to see why none of the reformers
who came with him from Babylon should be mentioned as supporting
Nehemiah. Again, the measures of Nehemiah are mild in comparison
with the radical measures of Ezra. Ezra, e.g. demands the divorce of
the wives (Ezra x. 11ff.), whereas Nehemiah only forbids
intermarriage between the children (Neh. xiii. 25). In short, the
work of Nehemiah has all the appearance of being tentative and
preliminary to the drastic reforms of Ezra. The history certainly
gains in intelligibility if we assume the priority of Nehemiah, and
the text does not absolutely bind us. Ezra's departure took place
"in the seventh year of Artaxerxes the king" (Ezra vii. 7). Even if
we allow that the number is correct, it is just possible that the
king referred to is not Artaxerxes I (465-424), but Artaxerxes II
(404-359). In that case, the date of Ezra's arrival would be 397
B.C.; in any case, the number of the year may be incorrect.

Any doubt which might arise as to the possibility of so serious a
transformation is at once met by an indubitable case of misplacement
in Ezra iv. 6-23. The writer is dealing with the alleged attempts of
the Samaritans to frustrate the building of the temple between 536
and 520 B.C. (Ezra iv. 1-5), and he diverges without warning into an
account of a similar opposition during the reigns of Xerxes (485-465)
and Artaxerxes (465-424) (Ezra iv. 6-23), resuming his interrupted
story of the building of the temple in ch. v. The account in iv. 6-23
is altogether irrelevant, as it has to do, not with the temple, but
with the building of the _city_ walls, iv. 12.

Such peculiarities and dislocations are strange in a historical
writing, and they are to be explained by the fact that the book of
Ezra-Nehemiah is not so much a connected history as a compilation.
The sources and spirit of this compilation we shall now consider.
First and of surpassing importance are (_a_, _b_) what are
known as the I-sections--verbal extracts in the first person, from
the memoirs of Ezra and Nehemiah:--

(_a_) Ezra vii. 27-ix., except viii. 35, 36.

(_b_) Neh. i.-vii. 5, xii. 27-43, xiii. 4-31.

(_c_) Other sections, though they are not actually extracts from
the memoirs, appear to rest directly on them: cf. Ezra vii. 1-10, x.,
Neh. viii.-x. In these sections Ezra is spoken of in the third person.

(_d_) Of great interest and importance are the Aramaic
sections, Ezra iv. _7b_-vi. 18 and vii. 12-26, involving
correspondence with the Persian court or royal rescripts.

(_e_) Finally, there are occasional lists, such as Neh. xii. 1-26_a_,
or Neh. vii. 6-69, a list of the returning exiles, incorporated in the
memoirs of Nehemiah from some earlier list and borrowed in Ezra ii.

These are the chief sources, but there can be no doubt that they
were compiled--that is put together and in certain cases worked
over--by the Chronicler. That suspicion is at once raised by the
fact that Ezra-Nehemiah is a strict continuation of the book of
Chronicles,[1] though in the Hebrew Bible Chronicles appears last,
because, having to compete with Samuel and Kings, it won its
canonical position later than Ezra-Nehemiah. But apart from this,
the phraseology, style and point of view of the Chronicler are very
conspicuous. There is the same love of the law, the same interest in
Leviticalism, the same joy in worship, the same fondness for lists
and numbers. He must have lived a century or more after Ezra and
Nehemiah; he looks back in Neh. xii. 47 to "the days of Nehemiah,"
and he must himself have belonged to the Greek period. One of his
lists mentions a Jaddua, a high priest in the time of Alexander the
Great. He speaks of the king of _Persia_ (Ezra i. 1), and of
Darius _the Persian_[2] (Neh. xii. 22), as one to whom the
Persian empire was a thing of the past; contemporaries simply spoke
of "the king," Ezra iv. 8.
[Footnote 1: Note that the opening verses of Ezra are repeated at
the end of Chronicles to secure a favourable ending to the book--the
more so as that was the last book of the Hebrew Bible.]
[Footnote 2: In Ezra vi. 22 Darius is even called the king of
Assyria.]

Many of the peculiarities of the book are explained the moment it is
seen to be a late compilation. The compiler selected from his
available material whatever suited his purpose; he makes no attempt
to give a continuous account of the period. He leaves without
scruple a gap of sixty years or more[1] between Ezra vi. and vii. He
interpolates a comment of his own in the middle of the original
memoirs of Nehemiah.[2] He transcribes the same list twice (Ezra
ii., Neh. vii.), which looks as if he had found it in two different
documents. He gives passages irrelevant settings (cf. Ezra iv. 6-23).
He passes without warning from the first person in Ezra ix. to the
third person in Ezra x., showing that he does not regard himself
as the slave, but as the master, of his material. Whatever may be
thought of the view that he has reversed the chronological order of
Ezra and Nehemiah, the book undoubtedly contains misplaced passages.
Ezra x. is a very unsatisfactory conclusion to the account of Ezra,
whereas Neh. viii.-x., which deal with the work of Ezra and its
issue in a covenant, form an admirable sequel to Ezra x., and have
almost certainly been misplaced.
[Footnote 1: Unless we take into account the brief misplaced section
in iv. 6-23.]
[Footnote 2: Cf. especially xii. 47 with its reference to "the days
of Nehemiah," whereas in xii. 40, xiii. 6, etc., Nehemiah speaks in
the first person. Ch. xii. 44-47 at least belongs to the
Chronicler.]

We cannot be too grateful to him for giving intact the vivid and
extremely important account of the activity of Nehemiah the layman
in Nehemiah's own words (i.-vii. 5); at the same time, his own
interests are almost entirely ecclesiastical. Unlike Ezra (viii.
15ff.), he says little of the homeward journey of the exiles in 537,
but much of the temple vessels (Ezra i.) and of the arrangements for
the sacrificial system, iii. 4-6. He dwells at length on the laying
of the foundation stone of the temple, iii. 8-13, on the Samaritan
opposition to the building, iv. 1-5, on the passover festival at the
dedication of the temple when it was finished, vi. 19-22. He
amplifies the Nehemiah narratives at the point where the services
and officers of the temple are concerned.

The influence of the Chronicler is unmistakable even in the Aramaic
documents, whose authenticity one would on first thoughts expect to
be guaranteed by their language. Aramaic would be the natural
language of correspondence between the Persian court and the western
provinces of the empire, and these official documents in Aramaic one
might assume to be originals; but an examination reveals some of the
editorial terms that characterize the Hebrew. A decree of Darius is
represented as ending with the prayer that "the God that hath caused
His name to dwell there (i.e. at Jerusalem) may overthrow all kings
and peoples that shall put forth their hand to destroy this house of
God which is at Jerusalem" (Ezra vi. 13). To say nothing of the
first clause, which has a suspicious resemblance to the language of
Deuteronomy, such a wish addressed to the God of the Jews is
anything but natural on the lips of a Persian. Again, there are
several distinctively Jewish terms of expression in the rescript
given by Artaxerxes to Ezra, e.g. the detailed allusion to
sacrifices in Ezra vii. 17. This, however, might easily be explained
by assuming that Ezra himself had had a hand in drafting the
rescript, which is not impossible.

The question, however, is for the historian a very serious one: how
great were the liberties which the Chronicler allowed himself in the
manipulation of his material? It is interesting in this connexion to
compare his account of the decree of Cyrus on behalf of the Jewish
exiles in Ezra i. 2-4 with the Aramaic version in vi. 3-5, which has
all the appearance of being original. The difference is striking.
Cyrus speaks in ch. i. as an ardent Jehovah worshipper; but the
substance of the edict is approximately correct, though its form is
altogether unhistorical and indeed impossible. The Chronicler's
idealizing tendency is here very apparent; and it is not impossible
that this has elsewhere affected his presentation of the facts as
well as the form of his narrative. In the light of the very plain
statements of the contemporary prophets Haggai and Zechariah, we are
justified in doubting whether, in Ezra iii., the Chronicler has not
antedated the foundation of the temple. To him it may well have
seemed inconceivable that the returned exiles should--whatever their
excuse--have waited for sixteen years before beginning the work
which to him was of transcendent importance.

It is possible, too, that prophecy may have influenced his
presentation of the history. He throws into the very forefront a
prophecy of Jeremiah (xxv. 12), and regards the decree of Cyrus as
its fulfilment (Ezra i. 1). He may also have had in mind the words
of the great exilic prophet who had represented Cyrus as issuing the
command to lay the foundation of the temple (Isa. xliv. 28); and he
may in this way have thrown into the period immediately after the
return activities which properly belong to the period sixteen years
later. But it is perfectly gratuitous, on the strength of this, to
doubt, as has recently been done, the whole story of the return in
537 B.C. Those who do so point out that the audience addressed by
Haggai, i. 12, 14, ii. 2, and Zechariah viii. 6, is described as the
remnant of the people of the land--that is, it is alleged, of those
who had been left behind at the time of the captivity. No doubt the
better-minded among these would lend their support to the efforts of
Haggai and Zechariah to re-establish the worship, but this community
as a whole must have been too dispirited and indifferent to have
taken such a step without the impulse supplied by the returned
exiles. The devotion of the native population to Jehovah, not great
to begin with--for it was the worst of the people who were left
behind--must have deteriorated through intermarriage with heathen
neighbours (Neh. xiii., Ezra ix. x.); and without a return in 537 on
the strength of the edict of Cyrus, the whole situation and sequel
are unintelligible. The Chronicler's version of the decree of Cyrus
throws a flood of light upon his method. It cannot be fairly said
that he invents facts; he may modify, amplify and transpose, but
always on the basis of fact. His fidelity in transcribing the
memoirs of Nehemiah is proof that he was not unscrupulous in the
treatment of his sources.

It remains to consider briefly the value of these sources. The
authenticity of the memoirs of Nehemiah is universally admitted.
Similar phrases are continually recurring, e.g. "the good hand of my
God upon me," ii. 8, 18, and the whole narrative is stamped with the
impress of a brave, devout, patriotic and resourceful personality.
The authenticity of the memoirs of Ezra has been disputed with
perhaps a shadow of plausibility. The language of the memoirs
distinctly approximates to the language of the Chronicler himself,
though this can be fairly accounted for, either by supposing that
the spirit and interests of Ezra the priest were largely identical
with those of the Chronicler, or that the Chronicler, recognizing
his general affinity with Ezra, hesitated less than in the case of
Nehemiah to conform the language of the memoirs to his own. But more
serious charges have been made. It has been alleged that the account
of the career of Ezra has been largely modelled on that of Nehemiah,
as that of Elisha on Elijah, and that legendary elements are
traceable, e.g. in the immense wealth brought by Ezra's company from
Babylon (Ezra viii. 24-27). These reasons do not seem altogether
convincing. The Chronicler stood relatively near to Ezra. Records
and lists were kept in that period, and he was no doubt in
possession of more first-hand documentary information than appears
in his book. There is no obvious motive for the writer who so
faithfully transcribed the memoirs of Nehemiah, inventing so vivid,
coherent and circumstantial a narrative for Ezra in the first person
singular (Ezra vii. 27-ix.).

The question of the Ezra memoirs raises the further question of the
Aramaic documents. The memoirs are immediately preceded by the
Aramaic rescript of Artaxerxes permitting Ezra to visit Jerusalem
for the purpose of reorganizing the Jewish community (Ezra vii. 12-26).
Doubt has been cast upon the authenticity of this document on the
strength of its undeniably Jewish colouring; but this, as we have seen,
is probably to be explained by the not unnatural assumption that Ezra
himself had a hand in its preparation. Its substantial authenticity
seems fully guaranteed by the spontaneous and warm-hearted outburst of
gratitude to God with which Ezra immediately follows it (Ezra vii. 27ff):
"Blessed be Jehovah, the God of our fathers, who hath put such a thing
as this in the king's heart," etc. A similar criticism may be made in
general on the Aramaic document, Ezra iv. _7b_-vi. 18. It is certain,
as we have seen, that the document has been retouched by the Chronicler;
but the whole passage and especially the royal decrees are substantially
authentic. Attention has been called to the Persian words which they
contain, though this alone is not decisive, as they might conceivably
be due to a later author; but the authenticity of the decree of Cyrus
is practically guaranteed by the story that it was discovered at
Ecbatana (Ezra vi. 2). Had it been a fiction, the scene of the discovery
would no doubt have been Babylon or Susa.

After making allowance, then, for the Chronicler's occasionally
cavalier treatment of his sources, we have to admit that the sources
themselves are of the highest historical value, though in order to
secure a coherent view of the period, they have, in all probability,
to be rearranged. No rearrangement can be considered as absolutely
certain, but the following, which is adopted by several scholars,
has internal probability:--

Ezra i.-iv. 5, iv. 24-vi., followed by about seventy years of
silence (516-444 B.C.). Neh. i.-vi., Ezra iv. 6-23, Neh. vii. 1-69
(= Ezra ii.), Neh. xi., xii., xiii. 4-31, Ezra vii., viii., Neh.
vii. 70-viii., Ezra ix.-x. 9, Neh. xiii. 1-3, Ezra x. 10-44, Neh.
ix., x.

Despite their enormous difficulties, Ezra-Nehemiah are a source of
the highest importance for the political and religious history of
early Judaism. The human interest of the story is also great--the
problems for religion created by intermarriage (Neh. xiii. 23ff.,
Ezra ix., x.), and the growth of the commercial spirit (Neh. xiii.
15-22). The figure of Ezra, though not without a certain devout
energy, is somewhat stiff and formal; but the personality revealed
by the memoirs of Nehemiah is gracious almost to the point of
romance. Seldom did the Hebrew people produce so attractive and
versatile a figure--at once a man of prayer and of action, of clear
swift purpose, daring initiative, and resistless energy, and endowed
with a singular power of inspiring others with his own enthusiasm.
He forms an admirable foil to Ezra the ecclesiastic; and it is a
matter of supreme satisfaction that we have the epoch-making events
in his career told in his own direct and vigorous words.




CHRONICLES


The comparative indifference with which Chronicles is regarded in
modern times by all but professional scholars seems to have been
shared by the ancient Jewish church. Though written by the same hand
as wrote Ezra-Nehemiah, and forming, together with these books, a
continuous history of Judah, it is placed after them in the Hebrew
Bible, of which it forms the concluding book; and this no doubt
points to the fact that it attained canonical distinction later than
they. Nor is this unnatural. The book of Kings had brought the history
down to the exile of Judah; and the natural desire to see the history
carried from its new starting point in the return and restoration
through post-exilic times is met by the book of Ezra-Nehemiah, to
which there was no rival, whereas Chronicles had a rival in the
existing and popular books of Samuel and Kings.

The book, whose name _Chronicles_ is borrowed by Luther from
Jerome, is very late. Ezra-Nehemiah with which Chronicles goes must
be, as we have seen,[1] as late as Alexander the Great; but the
lateness of Chronicles can be proved without going beyond the book
itself. The Hebrew text of 1 Chron. iii. 19ff. carries the date six
generations beyond Zerubbabel (520 B.C.), that is, at the earliest,
to 350 B.C., while the Greek text postulates eleven generations,
which would compel us to come as late as 250 B.C. We shall not go
far astray if we consider the date as roughly 300 B.C. It is thus
seven centuries later than the reign of David, with whose
ecclesiastical enterprises it deals so elaborately, and about two
and a-half centuries from the exile, with which it closes. The
distance of the record from the events has to be borne in mind when
estimating its religious spirit and historical value.
[Footnote: See p. 355.]

The book of Chronicles is an ecclesiastical history in a sense very
much more severe than the book of Kings; on every page it reflects
the ritual interests which were predominant when the book was
written. To it the only history worth recording is the history of
Judah. The first ten chapters are occupied with the preparation for
that history, and the rest of the book (i Chron. xi.-2 Chron.
xxxvi.) with the history itself from the coronation of David to the
exile. Israel is the apostate kingdom; she had revolted alike from
Judah and Jehovah, and had been swept for her sins into exile, from
which she never emerged again. The Chronicler makes a man of God say
to Amaziah, "Jehovah is not with Israel," 2 Chron. xxv. 7, and this
exactly represents his own attitude. He therefore all but absolutely
ignores the history of the northern kingdom, touching upon it only
where it is in some special way implicated in the history of Judah.

This practically exclusive attention of the Chronicles to Judah is
based upon her unique religious or rather ecclesiastical importance.
In Judah God made Himself known as nowhere else (cf. Ps. lxxvi. 1,
2); she was the religious metropolis of the world (Ps. lxxxvii.);
Jerusalem was the capital of Judah, and the temple was the centre of
Jerusalem. Therefore the temple and its affairs completely dwarf all
other interests. Not only is the story in Kings of its building and
dedication by Solomon repeated and expanded (2 Chron. i.-ix.), but
the story of David's reign (1 Chron. xi.-xxix.) is almost entirely
monopolized by an account of the arrangements which he made for the
temple ordinances and the material which he collected for the
building. He is said to have given Solomon a plan of the temple with
all its furniture and sundry other details, the pattern of which he
is said to have himself received from the hand of God (xxviii).
Every opportunity is taken in the course of the history to dwell
with an affectionate elaboration of detail on the temple services or
festivals; and the resultant contrast between the corresponding
accounts of the same reign in Kings and Chronicles is often very
singular--nowhere more so than in the story of Hezekiah, most of
which is devoted to an account of the great passover held in
connexion with the reformation (2 Chron. xxix., xxx.).

The Chronicler betrays, if possible, even more interest in the
Levites than in the priests. It is a Levite who is moved by the
Spirit to encourage Jehoshaphat before the battle (2 Chron. xx. 14),
and special attention is called to their enthusiasm at the
reformation of Hezekiah (2 Chron. xxix. 34). The Chronicler also
displays exceptional interest in the musical service--in his
account, e.g., of the inauguration of the temple and of the
passovers of Hezekiah and Josiah; so that it has been not
unreasonably conjectured that the author was himself a Levite and
member of one of the guilds of temple singers or musicians.

Since, then, the interests of the Chronicler are so undeniably
ecclesiastical, the question may be fairly raised how far his
narrative is strictly historical. It must be confessed, e.g., that
the impression made by his account of David is distinctly unnatural
and improbable, in the light of the graphic biography in 1 and 2
Samuel. It is not a supplementary picture, but an altogether
different one. The versatile minstrel-warrior of the earlier books
is transformed into a saint, whose supreme aim in life is the
service of religion; and this transformation is thoroughly
characteristic of the Chronicler. He deals with his literary sources
in the most sovereign fashion, and adapts them to his theories of
Providence. His omissions, e.g., are very significant. He has
nothing to say of David's adultery, nor of Solomon's idolatry, nor
of the intrigues by which he succeeded to the throne, nor of the
tribute of silver and gold which Hezekiah paid Sennaccherib (2 Kings
xviii. 14-16). It may be urged in extenuation of his silence that
his public were already familiar with these stories in the books of
Samuel and Kings; but he repeats so many sections from these books
word for word that his failure to repeat the sections which militate
against his heroes can only be regarded as part of a deliberate
policy. Especially must this be maintained in the light of his
numerous modifications or contradictions of his sources. David's
sons, he tells us, were chief about the king (1 Chron, xviii. 17);
he cannot allow that they were priests, as 2 Sam. viii. 18 says they
were. Nor can he allow that Solomon offered his dedicatory prayer
before the altar (1 Kings viii. 22)--that was the place for the
priest--so he erects for him a special platform in the midst of the
court, from which he addresses the people (2 Chron. vi. 13).

The motive of these changes is obviously respect for the priestly
law. Sometimes the motive is to glorify his heroes or to magnify
their enthusiasm or devotion. Where, e.g. in 2 Sam. xxiv. 24 David
pays Araunah fifty shekels of silver for the ground on which the
temple was afterwards built, in 1 Chron. xxi. 25 he pays 600 shekels
of gold. Similarly, in 1 Kings ix. 11 Solomon gives Hiram certain
cities in return for a loan; in 2 Chron. viii. 2 it is Hiram who
gives Solomon the cities. David accumulates 100,000 talents of gold
and 1,000,000 of silver for the building of the temple (1 Chron.
xxii.)--a fabulous and impossible sum when we remember that Solomon
himself had only 666 talents of gold yearly (1 Kings x. 14). In 2
Sam. xxi. 19 Elhanan is the hero who slays Goliath; the Chronicler
sees that this conflicts with the romantic story of David (1 Sam.
xvii.) and therefore makes Elhanan slay the brother of Goliath (1
Chron. xx. 5). In 2 Kings xxii., xxiii., the reformation of Josiah
follows very naturally upon the finding of the law in the eighteenth
year of the king, but the Chronicler represents the reformation as
taking place in his twelfth year, i.e. as soon as he came of age (2
Chrori. xxxiv. 3). He still, however, dates the finding of the law
in his eighteenth year (cf. 8), i.e. _six years after the
reformation_, and thus throws the history into an impossible
sequence, apparently for no other object than to illustrate the
youthful devotion of his hero-king. He is not even always consistent
with himself; following Kings (1 Kings xv. 14, xxii. 43) he says
that Asa and Jehoshaphat did not remove the high places (2 Chron.
xv. 17, xx. 33), and yet he had just before told us that they did (2
Chron, xiv. 5, xvii. 6) as, on his theory,--being good kings, they
should. The motive for the change is usually obvious. In 2 Sam.
xxiv. 1 Jehovah had tempted David to number the people. This is
intolerable to the more advanced theology of the Chronicler, so he
ascribes the impulse to Satan (1 Chron. xxi. 1). A similar
transformation may be seen in his notice of the doom of Saul. In 1
Sam. xxviii. 6 it is implicitly said that Saul earnestly sought to
discover the divine will; in 1 Chron. x. 14 this is roundly denied-he
did not inquire of Jehovah.

These and similar transformations, amounting sometimes to
contradictions of the original sources, are due to a religious
motive, and they appear to be made in perfectly good faith. The
Chronicler is a religious man who, unlike Job, finds no perplexities
in the moral world, but everywhere a precise and mechanical
correspondence between character and destiny. Not only is piety
rewarded by prosperity, but prosperity presupposes piety. The most
pious kings have the most soldiers. David has over a million and a
half, Jehoshaphat over a million, while Rehoboam has only 180,000.
Manasseh's long reign of fifty-five years--a stumbling-block, on the
Chronicler's theory--has to be explained by his repentance (2 Chron.
xxxiii. 11ff.). Religious explanations are everywhere assigned for
facts. Josiah's defeat and death are the penalty of his disobedience
to the word of God which came to him through the Egyptian king (2
Chron. xxxv. 21ff). So Uzziah's leprosy is the divine punishment of
his pride in presuming to offer incense despite the protests of the
priests (2 Chron. xxvi. 16ff.), The Chronicler sees the hand of God
in everything; He is the immediate arbiter of all human destiny.
That is why rewards and punishments are so swift and just and sure.
The divine control of human affairs is most conspicuously seen in
the Chronicler's account of battles, where the human warriors count
for nothing. God fights or causes a panic among the enemy; the
warriors do little more than shout and pursue (2 Chron. xiii. 15,
xx.). The battle-scenes show how little imagination the Chronicler
possessed; clearly he had never seen a battle, and he has no
conception of one (cf. Num. xxxi.). He thinks nothing of describing
a conflict between 400,000 Judeans and 800,000 Israelites, in which
half a million of the latter were slain (2 Chron. xiii.). It is all
so different from the stirring and life-like tales of the Judges or
the Maccabees.

In the face of these historical improbabilities, what are we to make
of the Chronicler's continual appeal to his sources? These are
ostensibly of two kinds: (_a_) historical, (_b)_
prophetical. (_a_) He frequently refers to the book of the
kings of Israel and Judah, the book of the kings of Judah and
Israel, the book of the kings of Israel, and the history of the
kings of Israel. No doubt one book is cited under these different
titles. The history of Manasseh, e.g., is said to be recorded in the
history of the kings of Israel (2 Chron. xxxiii. 18); clearly this
cannot be northern Israel, as Manasseh was a king of Judah. What,
then, was this book of the kings of Israel and Judah? At first we
are strongly tempted to regard it as our canonical book of Kings.
That book was already over two centuries in existence and must have
been familiar; not only are whole sections copied from it by the
Chronicler verbatim, but occasionally passages which he adopts
presuppose other passages which he has omitted; e.g. he follows 2
Sam. v. 13 in asserting that David took _more_ wives (1 Chron.
xiv. 3), though the word "more" has no meaning in his context; in
his source it points naturally enough back to 2 Sam. iii. 2-5. There
can be no doubt, then, that the canonical books of Samuel and Kings
constituted one of his sources.

Yet it is almost equally certain that that is not the book to which
he continually refers his readers. The "book of Jehu," which
recorded the history of Jehoshaphat, is said to be incorporated in
the book of the Kings of Israel (2 Chron. xx. 34); it is not,
however, in our canonical Kings. Neither is the prayer of Manasseh
(2 Chron. xxxiii. 18), nor are the genealogies referred to in 1
Chron. ix. 1. Again, for further information about Jotham the reader
is referred to the book of the kings of Israel and Judah (2 Chron.
xxvii. 7), when, as a matter of fact, the Chronicler has more to
tell about him than our book of Kings (2 Kings xv. 32-38). Clearly,
then, the book so frequently cited is not the canonical book of
Kings. What sort of production it was may be inferred from the
reference in 2 Chron. xxiv. 27 to the "_midrash_ of the book of
the Kings." Doubtless the book in question was a midrash, i.e. an
edifying commentary on the history, of the sort preserved in the
very late story of 1 Kings xiii. The tendency towards midrash, which
so powerfully affected the later Jewish mind, appears as early as
the stories of Elisha. (_b_) Prophetic sources are also
frequently cited or alluded to, e.g. the books of Samuel, Nathan,
Gad (1 Chron. xxix. 29), the prophecy of Ahijah, the book of
Shemaiah, the book of Iddo (2 Chron, xii. 15), the vision of Isaiah
(2 Chron. xxxii. 32), etc. Probably, however, these were not
independent prophetic works. The reference to the "_midrash_ of
the prophet Iddo" (2 Chron. xiii. 22) suggests that these works,
like the history of the kings, were midrashic; in all probability
they were simply extracts from the midrashic book of Kings already
alluded to. Practically all the prophets to whom books are ascribed
in Chronicles are mentioned in the canonical books, and probably
they were regarded as the authors of the sections in which their
names occur, so that the books of Samuel, Nathan and Gad would be
none other than the relevant portions of Samuel and Kings, or of the
midrash of these books. Thus the Chronicler's imposing array of
citations may be without injustice reduced to two books--the
canonical book of Kings (or Genesis to Kings) and the midrash to
those books.

These facts have led many to deny all value whatever to the
Chronicler's unsupported statements. But such a condemnation is too
sweeping. The genealogies in 1 Chron. i.-ix., though they no doubt
received many later additions, probably rest on good sources, and
there are other notices bearing, e.g., on the fortifications of
Rehoboam (2 Chron. xi.), Jotham (2 Chron. xxvii.), etc., on Uzziah's
enterprise in peace and war (2 Chron. xxvi. 5-15), on Judah's border
warfare (2 Chron. xvii. 11, xxi. 16, xxvi. 7, xxviii. 17f), etc.,
which do not display the Chronicler's characteristic tendencies and
appear to be authentic. On the whole, however, the historical value
of Chronicles must be rated low. Nor is its religious value high.
Its attitude to the problems raised by the moral order is
exceedingly mechanical, and with one noble exception (2 Chron. xxx.
18, 19), its general conception of religion is ritualistic. But it
is a valuable monument of the Judaism of the third century B.C., and
we learn from it to appreciate the daring independence of such books
as Job and Ecclesiastes.






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Introduction to the Old Testament
by John Edgar McFadyen





This eBook was produced by Joel Erickson <joel@oneporpoise.com>,
Charles Franks <charlz@lvcablemodem.com>, and Juliet Sutherland




PAULA

THE WALDENSIAN

by Eva Lecomte

_Adapted and translated from the Spanish Version by W. M. Strong_



PREFACE

I Hope and trust that the young people who read this book will have as much
joy in the reading of it as I have had in its writing.

Paula's Saviour wishes to be your Saviour too. Paula was by no means
perfect, but she did love God with all her heart and her neighbor as
herself.

This simple country girl, young and strong, yet so tender-hearted and
forgetful of self, appears to me sometimes like one of the clear brooks of
my beloved land, pure and fresh, slipping noiselessly between flowered
banks of forget-me-nots. It was by love that she "conquered"--as we shall
see!

If some day you should come to my country, do not forget that I would have
great joy in seeing any of those who have read this book. I live in the
little town of Villar at the bottom of the valley, where on every side
there are hills and mountains as far as the eye can reach. To me it is the
loveliest country in the world and I am sure that Paula thought so too.

And so good-bye, dear young reader! I must not keep you any longer, for I
am sure you have a great desire to know about Paula; and anyway, I suppose
you will have done what I would have done at your age, namely, read the
story first, and left my poor preface to the last--for which I have already
pardoned you!

And now, may God bless you, Paula dear, as you walk among these my young
friends who read about you! My prayer is that you may shed over them the
same sweet ray of celestial light that you have already shed over others.

EVA LECOMTE.

Villar-Pellice, France.



Translator's note:

"Paula" was originally written in French and translated from thence into
Spanish; and the present translator having discovered this literary and
spiritual jewel, felt that it should be given also to the young people of
the English-speaking world, not only that they might know Paula herself,
but that, through her, they might become more intimately acquainted with
Paula's Saviour and accept Him as their own Redeemer and Lord.

W. M. STRONG.

Coihueco, Chile, South America, 1940.



CONTENTS

PART ONE

1. AN UNEXPECTED LETTER

2. MEMORIES

3. PAULA ARRIVES

4. PAULA'S TREASURES

5. LOUIS' WATCH

6. IN THE MIDST OF DARKNESS

7. CATALINA'S ILLNESS

8. THE FIVE-FRANC PIECE

9. A LITTLE GLIMPSE OF HEAVEN

10. IN THE COUNTRY

11. THE CAT MOTHER

12. A TREASURE RESTORED

13. THE SCHOOL-TEACHER AND HER BROTHER

PART TWO

1. SOME YEARS LATER

2. THE BRETON

3. SAVED!

4. THE YOUNG SCHOOL-MISTRESS

5. THE NIGHT-SCHOOL

6. THE HOUSE OF GOD

7. IN HIS PRESENCE



PART ONE



CHAPTER ONE

AN UNEXPECTED LETTER

Clearly engraved on the walls of my memory there still remains a picture of
the great gray house where I spent my childhood. It was originally used for
more than a hundred years as the convent of the "White Ladies", with its
four long galleries, one above the other, looking proudly down upon the
humbler dwellings of the village. On the side of the house, where ran the
broad road from Rouen to Darnetal, a high rugged wall surrounded a wide
yard, guarded at the entrance by two massive doors, studded with enormous
spikes. The naked barrenness of this yard was, to say the least, forbidding
in the extreme; but the fertile fields on the other side of the house
spread themselves like a vast and beautiful green carpet, dotted here and
there with little villages, crowned with church spires and their
corresponding belfries, from which on a Sunday morning pealed out the
cheerful call to prayer and worship. The ancient convent long before our
story begins had been transformed into a lovely dwelling with an immense
garden on one side, edged by a dozen little brick houses that seemed so
small that they made us children think of certain doll-houses that we used
to see in the Paris magazines. They were known locally as the "Red
Cottages." A long avenue of ancient elms separated us from these houses of
our neighbors, and in front of the cottages stretched a line of stone
benches, where, in the shade of the great trees, the old men of the village
used to sit and recount to us tales of the days when the Convent
flourished. Some of these stories made us shiver. (Indeed, they had a habit
of straying into our dreams at night.)

The rest of the land around the Convent had, with the passing of the years,
fallen into the hands of the villagers themselves. Each one had a small
space for flowers in front and a vegetable garden behind.

Of course, our own garden covering the whole space in front of the Red
Cottages, was a much more pretentious affair with its deep well, its
many-colored kiosks, and its noisy bee-hives. In fact, it was in our eyes,
the most enchanting corner of the earth.

I don't remember all the details about the special thing that happened one
day, but I know that I shall never forget it to the end of my life.

We were at tea in the garden. Teresa, our old servant, was walking up and
down in her kitchen. She never seemed to have time to sit down to eat Dear
old Teresa! She always seemed like a mother to me, for we had lost our own
dear mother when I was still in the cradle.

My brother and I had quarrelled over a mere nothing, when we were called in
to tea by our father. Of course, we did not dare continue our dispute
openly in front of him, but we continued our war-like activities by kicking
each other under the table.

Louis was ten years old and I was nine. As he was older and a boy, he of
course, considered that he had the right to the last word. Now kicks had
replaced words; but as we were seated at quite a distance from one another,
we did not succeed in causing very great damage to each other's shins.
Notwithstanding this, I began to lose patience, and in order to end the
matter, knowing that Louis was not very courageous, I leaned my chair as
far inside as I could and let him have one terrific kick. At this, his face
changed color and my father now disturbed by the extra noise of my kick,
finally began to realize what was happening. I do not know how matters
would have terminated, if Teresa had not at this moment come into the
garden with a black-bordered letter in her hand which she delivered to our
father. He took it silently and opened it as Teresa carried away the
tea-pot.

I saw immediately by my father's expression that the letter carried serious
news, and I am sure Louis noticed it also for he completely forgot to
return my kick.

"Teresa!" called my father.

"All right, I'm coming," said that good lady.

"Read this, and tell me what you think of it," and my father handed the
letter to the old servant.

Teresa seated herself at the end of the table between Louis and me, and
with her head in her hand commenced to read--Teresa was not very
well-educated and she read the letter very slowly and half-aloud. "Who
wrote this?" was her first question.

"The Pastor of the village," replied my father.

"A minister!" exclaimed Teresa. "He's a mighty poor writer for a minister,
and no doubt his mother paid mighty well for his 'education.'"

My father smiled a bit sadly.

"You don't understand it, Teresa?"

"Yes, yes; I understand half of it, and I think I can guess at the other
half."

"Do you want me to help you?" offered Louis.

Teresa looked scornfully at Louis--

"You! I should say not! You don't care to help me in the kitchen or run
errands for me, and the only thing the matter with you now is curiosity!"

That settled Louis, and Teresa went on with her reading. Bending her great
fat form more and more closely over the letter, she became more serious as
she neared the bottom of the fourth page where the writing became so close
and so fine that it was hardly possible to decipher it. When, at last, she
lifted her head, her eyes were full of tears. "Poor, poor little thing!"
she repeated softly.

"Well, what do you think?" said my father.

"What do I think? Why we must send at once and have her come here as soon
as possible, because--"

"Who?" my father interrupted her without ceremony.

"Yes; who? who?" questioned Louis.

"Tell us, father, please," added my sister Rosa, a tall, serious girl of
fifteen.

And as he did not answer us quickly our questions multiplied.

"Patience! Patience!" cried my father; "your turn will come."

"Teresa, you are getting old, and another girl in the house simply means
more work for you and a lot more problems for me. If 'she' (my father had
never been able to reconcile himself to pronounce the name of my mother
since her untimely death)--if 'she' were here I would not hesitate, but to
bring another orphan into a family already half-orphaned doesn't seem right
to me."

"Don't worry, sir, a little more work doesn't worry Teresa Rouland. She
will have to get up a little earlier and go to bed a little later, and that
will be all."

"Well, Teresa, I'll think about it, and it needs to be 'thought about' a
good deal."

"And why do you say that, sir? One doesn't have to reflect long about doing
good."

"Well, I'll tell you why I hesitate. I'm sure that someone else could much
better replace the parents of this orphaned girl. I must confess that for
my part I don't feel equal to the task."

"Sir, would you like to know what I think? You have said to yourself, 'From
the time that my wife died life has become a burden, and if it wasn't for
the children I would have died of grief, but for love of them I must work
and live. Therefore, with my heart torn and desolated as it is, I don't
feel called upon to take any responsibility upon myself other than that of
my own children!'"

"There is a good deal of truth in what you say, Teresa."

"Yes, sir, but it is very bad, very bad, if you will let me say so! I know
I ought not to talk so, as I'm only a poor old servant; but remember, I was
the one that brought up the lovely woman that we all mourn for, and I knew
her before you did, sir, and I loved her as if she were my own child. When
I put her in the coffin it was as if they had taken out a piece of my own
heart. She was so young to die, so sweet, so good, and besides so
marvelously beautiful! But I dried my tears as best I could, for I knew
there was much to be done; and I said to myself that I would honor the
memory of my mistress by doing always that which I knew she would have
approved of. And now, sir, take this little orphan as you know your good
wife would have done, as the daughter of her beloved sister...." She
stopped suddenly, slightly abashed, as she realized that perhaps she had
said a little too much for one in her station in life.

But more than her mere words, her voice vibrant with emotion had moved us
all to the depths of our souls.

"You are a valiant woman with a great heart," my father said, as he took
her hand. "I will write this very night and ask them to send the girl to us
as soon as possible."

Then turning to us he added, "You no doubt know by this time of whom we
have been speaking. Your cousin Paula has just lost her father. You will
remember, her mother died some years ago, and we are her nearest relatives.
Your uncle's friends have written me as to whether I will consent to
receive Paula in our home, and in a few days, more or less, she will be
among us."

We opened our mouths to ask a thousand questions, but father stopped us.
"No, no! That is enough for now! Later I will tell you the details;
besides, I must go out immediately. Go now to your various tasks and don't
be thinking too much about this coming of your cousin."



CHAPTER TWO

MEMORIES

That night I could not study my lessons. In fact, I could do nothing but
think about Paula! I was not a student and was always at the bottom of the
class. Louis, in the matter of study, was no better than I; but in the
school, thanks to his brilliancy of mind, he always seemed to skin through
somehow. Rosa was not a bit like her brother and sister; being a model of
patience, application and obedience. I was very proud of my sister Rosa,
and I loved and admired her, but I never had the slightest desire to
imitate her.

After my father had gone, nothing was talked of except our cousin Paula.
When would she come? What would she be like? Would she be content to be
here among us? All these were questions which we could not answer as we
knew very little about her. They had told me that Paula lived in the
Waldensian Valley--a country where the inhabitants fed on black bread and
lived in homes that were like stables. I had no idea just exactly where the
mountains of Piedmont were. I had searched the map without being able to
find the region, but I supposed it must be somewhere between France, Italy
and Switzerland.

There was another thing I had found out; namely, that Paula was about my
own age. What happiness! This fact I repeated over and over until Louis
told me to keep quiet. This attitude on his part I put down as discontent
because Paula wasn't a boy, so I kept repeating, "Paula's the same as me!"

"For mercy's sake, will you keep quiet, Lisita? Besides you have your
grammar twisted as usual. It doesn't surprise me in the least that you're
always at the foot of the class, if that's the way you study."

"You can talk to me as you like," I answered, "but when Paula gets here
I'll never speak to you again, and I'll tell her not to say a word to you
either. I am mighty glad that Paula's a girl and not a disagreeable boy
like you."

"Oh, keep your Paula, much do I care!" replied Louis.

"Come, come," exclaimed Rosa, "what's the good of fighting over this poor
girl Paula whom neither of you have ever seen!"

"It's Louis' fault!"

"No, it's Lisita's!"

"It's the two of you! If Paula could see the way you quarrel I'm sure she
would not want to come. I hope she will love us all and we must all of us
love her also, because she's not only an orphan, but she's a niece of our
poor dear, dead mother."

Rosa knew well how to bring about peace. One word about our mother was
enough.

"See here, Lisita," and Rosa drew me toward her, "I see that you haven't
the slightest desire to study tonight, so close your book, and if you get
up early tomorrow morning I'll help you. Do you know what I would do now if
I were you."

"What?"

"I'd go and see Catalina, You know that she does not like to be alone all
of the afternoon, and I think Teresa has gone out If I didn't have so much
to do I'd see her myself. Now, look out you don't make too much noise.
Catalina has a terrible headache today."

"All right. I'm off!" I said.

The idea of visiting my oldest sister never made me very happy in those
days. In fart, I hardly ever entered her room because it bored me terribly
to be in the company of such a disagreeable invalid.

I remembered the time when Catalina was the liveliest and happiest person
in the whole house, but unfortunately all this had changed in an instant.
One day three years before, Catalina had fallen from the top of a high
cherry-tree which she had climbed against the advice of Teresa. She was
unconscious when we picked her up, and it seemed at first as if she would
die as a result of the fall. After six months of cruel suffering, however,
her youth had triumphed over death; but the big sister who had always been
as happy and as lively as a bird was gone from us, and in her place
remained a forlorn, unhappy girl with a poor twisted body, who at rare
intervals sallied from her room a few steps with the aid of her crutches.
Unfortunately her character had also suffered severely, for in spite of the
tenderness and solicitude of my father who sought to satisfy her slightest
desire, and in spite of the untiring care of Teresa and the patience and
sweetness of Rosa, Catalina's life was one long complaint. Her room, with
its white bed adorned with blue curtains and its magnificent view of the
fields and mountains, was the most beautiful in the whole house. A pair of
canaries sang for her in their respective corners; the finest fruits were
always for her; and as she was a great reader, new books were continually
brought in; but nothing seemed to have power to put a smile of satisfaction
on her thin, wasted face.

Poor Catalina! It was certainly true--I didn't love her very much. I was so
accustomed to see my sister in her invalid state that her pitiful condition
didn't seem to move me, and she was always in such a bad humor that I only
went to see her on rare occasions.

However, on this particular afternoon, I had, of course, a great desire to
carry her the news of our cousin's coming, and so I gladly went to visit
her; but forgetting all the warnings of Rosa I burst open the door like a
gust of wind.

Catalina was lying with her face toward the wall with the curtains of the
bed partly drawn, and a green shade had been placed over the cages of the
two birds in order to stop their singing. Under other circumstances I would
have prudently retired, thinking that Catalina, more irritated or sicker
than usual, was endeavoring to sleep. Doubtless our old servant had come in
to speak to her regarding Paula, and finding her apparently asleep had
arranged things as I found them. She turned her head on hearing me come in
and in a sharp tone exclaimed, "What a noise, Lisita! Can't you give me a
single quiet moment!"

"You know I haven't been here all day!" I answered impatiently. "In fact, I
haven't been here since yesterday morning, and besides, I forgot that Rosa
told me that you had a headache."

"Well, you know it now!"

"So you wouldn't care to have me tell you the big news!"

"No!"

"Well, I am going to tell you anyhow, because I can't keep it to myself any
longer! Uncle John is dead!"

"Uncle John! Dead?"

"Yes, and I'm happy!"

"What do you mean, you're happy!"

"Well, I am happy!--not because Uncle John is dead, but because his little
girl, Paula, who is just my age, is coming to live with us, so, of course,
why shouldn't I be happy?"

"Well, you can just forget your 'happiness,' because Paula is _not_ going
to live with us. I can tell you that right now!"

"And why not? Father said she was coming! You can ask Teresa, or Rosa, or
Louis!"

"I am not going to ask anyone, but I tell you that Paula is _not_ coming
here! No! and indeed, NO! I've got enough to put up with, with Louis and
you! It seems as if you tear my head apart, for you quarrel from morning
till night; and when you play it seems as if the house is coming down; and
now suppose another bad-mannered little girl should come among us! But I
tell you it _never_ shall happen!"

"You're not the one who orders things here!"

"Neither do you, you impertinent little thing."

"Now, don't get mad, Catalina!" I cried, as I burst into tears.

"You don't know what you are talking about. You do not realize that Paula
has no one in the world to care for her. Teresa read us the letter out
loud. I know I'm not a good girl and I'm almost as disagreeable as you are,
but I am going to be good when Paula comes. You shall see. She will be my
dearly beloved sister and she is almost exactly my age. Oh, I certainly
shall love her so, and we shall always be together and we, we...."

"Keep quiet, Lisita. Your tongue runs like a mill-wheel. Besides, where did
you get all these details?"

"It was this afternoon, just as we finished tea. They wrote to father, and
father gave the letter to Teresa, and Teresa said that a little extra work
didn't bother her, and so father said, 'All right, let her come!'"

"And I? Father said nothing about me?"

"Not that I remember."

"Oh," sobbed Catalina, "everything is done without me now! Because I am
nothing more than an invalid, everything is arranged without consulting me!
What difference does it make to you--who are able to laugh and run and
play--if I suffer here without having a thing to say about what goes on in
the house! How would you like to be in my place? Father never came to say
one single word to me about the matter, and now without consulting me as to
whether it would disturb me, they wish to bring another trouble to torment
me more! But it shall not be, and the day that she comes I shall go to a
hospital, because they do not want me here any more!"

Poor Catalina! She had passed a very bad day, and always on such days she
would weep on the slightest pretext. I didn't care for her very much, but
that day I pitied her with all my heart and I did what I could to calm her;
for once her nerves were excited, nothing could console the poor unhappy
girl. Besides, I was very much afraid that she would be able to change my
father's purpose in regard to Paula. He, generally so severe, so cold, and
insensible in his attitude toward us, obeyed the slightest wish of his
eldest daughter. And if--if!--she succeeded in preventing Paula's coming I
felt that I would never, never pardon Catalina! But now I tried to embrace
her.

"Listen," I said; "father had to go out, but when he returns he will tell
you the same thing that I have told you!"

But Catalina would not hear me. With her head hidden in the pillows, she
continued crying.

I was desperate! As a rule it took a lot less than this to make Catalina
worse. Catalina worse! And all my fault! What would my father say! And yet
I had had no bad intentions. How could I have known that she would have
received my good news in this way? Suddenly I had a brilliant idea. Leaving
Catalina I ran to the kitchen where Teresa was preparing the vegetables for
supper. "Teresa, come quickly," I cried with my eyes full of tears;
"Catalina is making herself sick with crying."

"And why? I left her sleeping only a short time ago."

"Oh, yes, I know; but please come at once, Teresa! It's all my fault! I
told her that Paula was coming and she is beside herself! But really and
truly I had no idea that she would take it that way!"

Teresa jumped up quickly, saying under her breath, "What next?" and then to
me, "You certainly are a troublesome youngster, my poor Lisita!"

"But Teresa, I vow to you...."

"Be quiet, and go back to Catalina's room! I'll be there as soon as I can!"

I left the kitchen well content. Teresa was not full of pretty phrases but
she had a heart of gold, and I knew that somehow or other she would be able
to fix things with Catalina. I found Rosa already in Catalina's room on my
return, trying in vain to calm her. She turned to me.

"What on earth has happened? I heard Catalina sobbing, clear at the other
end of the house. Are you responsible for this?"

"No, no, it wasn't I; it was Paula."

"Paula!"

I tried to explain, but at this minute Teresa entered, bringing with her a
plateful of delicious apples.

"Come, come, Catalina!" and her deep, sonorous voice seemed like soothing
balm, as her presence appeared to fill the room. "What on earth are you
crying about? It is but a short moment ago that I secured permission from
your papa to read you a letter which he has just received from Italy, and I
went out to pick up some of your favorite apples, the first of the season,
and here I come to find you crying!"

Catalina became a little calmer hearing the word "letter," for, to the poor
confined invalid, a letter from abroad was a great event. Nevertheless,
between her sobs she remarked, "Is it a letter about this terrible 'Paula'
that they are talking about?"

"Yes," answered Teresa, with that soothing voice of hers. "It's a letter
that tells us a bit about a niece of your poor mother."

Catalina calmed down completely. If the memory of our mother still lived in
the heart of her other daughters it had first place above all else with
Catalina.

"Now, read it to me, Catalina," said Teresa. "You can do so much better
than I can in the reading line, and it will sound so much better from your
lips than from my poor stumbling ones. Wait till I fix up the pillows, and
don't cry any more. And now your headache is better, isn't it?"

"It still pains terribly, Teresa. Let Rosa read it."

Rosa took the letter, and read in her clear, sweet voice the lines that had
so stirred us all.

There were but few details. Our Uncle John had died; so wrote the pastor of
the little church in that far-off Waldensian Valley. He had died as he had
lived--a real Christian. He had no near relatives, it appeared; and the
rest of the family had gone to America two years before. Paula, therefore,
was alone. Just before breathing his last, my uncle had expressed the
desire to leave his daughter in the care of our father whom he had never
known, but of whom he had heard nothing but good. Beside all this he had
left his daughter in the hands of God, the loving Father of all orphans,
praying Him to guide and direct in the whole affair. His last prayer had
been for us; asking God to bless our family that we might all be guided
into the straight and narrow Way that leadeth unto life eternal. Then
followed certain details relative to a small inheritance that Paula
possessed, and the prayer of the Pastor himself that the temporal and
spiritual happiness of the little orphan might be maintained.

"Is that all?" asked Catalina.

"Yes," said Rosa; "that is the end of the letter."

"Poor little thing!"

There was a long silence. I think Catalina was thinking of her mother, for
her face had softened for once.

Teresa sat with her large agile fingers flying--those strong fingers that
were never idle;--the metallic sound of her needles alternating with the
happy song of the canaries, from whose cages the curtains had again been
removed.

Never in my life had I lingered very long to observe Catalina, but this
afternoon I could not help but notice how pale and delicate she really was.
Propped up on her pillows with her golden hair falling around her
shoulders, one would not have guessed her to be more than fourteen years
old, instead of eighteen. Seeing her thus after her day of sufferings, I
pardoned all her bad humor and hardness of heart toward Paula; and I had a
great desire to take her in my arms but I did not dare do such a
thing--fearing she would refuse my caresses.

"Teresa," she said suddenly, closing her eyes to keep back the tears, "do
you think that it hurts very much when one dies?"

"Why do you ask that?" and Teresa looked at her quite surprised.

"I was thinking of Uncle John."

"That depends, Catalina, that depends. There are some persons who die
tranquilly in their sleep with no pain at all, but in the case of others it
is quite the contrary."

"But afterward, Teresa! How about afterward? What happens to us after
death?"

"Afterward?" Teresa looked puzzled. "Nobody knows what happens to us
afterward. When I was a little girl, my mother who was a very pious woman,
told us that if we were very good we would go to heaven, but if we were bad
we went to hell. I believe she was right, poor woman, but it is sometime
since I have thought of religious things, and your father does not like to
have us talk about it."

"I know _that_, Teresa, but I can't help thinking about it often and often.
Was our mother a 'pious woman?'"

"Not exactly--at least, not before she became ill. Her relatives in
Villar--your Aunt and your Uncle John used to write lovely letters to her,
that spoke of God and heaven and prayer. Your mother used to sigh after
reading them, and sometimes she would read me a page or two from those
letters, and would say to me, 'My good Teresa, we both ought to think about
these things! My sister is far more happy in her hut on the mountain-side
in Waldensia than we are here in the midst of abundance. It must be
wonderful not to fear death and to love God with all our heart' When she
spoke thus to your father he laughed at her and said. 'Now, don't you worry
about that, darling, you couldn't be any better than you are now; and I am
glad that you are not like these pious ladies who try to tell you what will
happen to you after death. You'll have plenty of time to think about those
things when you come to your last days; but now with your good health and
robust constitution you can count on a good old age.'"

"But father was mistaken, Teresa!"

"Yes, he certainly was mistaken, poor man. Nobody could have believed that
when on that Monday afternoon she complained of a little pain in her
throat, she would die on the following Thursday."

"Was it diphtheria, Teresa?"

All that poor Teresa could say amid her tears was, "Poor, poor little
beloved one! Never shall I forget her last moments or the desperation of
your father. From his very first visit the doctor said that there was no
hope. I thought I would go insane when he said that! How I remember her the
day before she was taken ill, in all her youth and beauty--singing as she
worked, and then suddenly came that terrible pressure in her throat."

"Then, Teresa, you remember, she could not kiss us goodbye."

"No, poor lady, that was her greatest pain when they told her that her
sickness was very contagious. But--there! there! Catalina, I did not mean
to make you cry, and I have told you this story so many times, and now here
I am telling it over again like the foolish woman I am!"

"No, no, Teresa, go on," answered Catalina between her sobs. "I am always
happy when I hear you speak of our beloved Mamma."

And now, I too could not keep back my tears as I kneeled beside the old
servant, who left her work to pass her hand over my head.

"Thou didst not know her, dear Lisita. How many times during her sickness
she told me especially to take care of thee, and love thee as if I were
thine own mother. Yes, and correct thee also.... At times I ask myself
whether I have obeyed her."

"Oh, Teresa," exclaimed Rosa, interrupting her and closing, with a bang the
book which she had not read. "Indeed, you have done your duty. What would
we have done without you? Of course, I can't say," and Rosa smiled, "that
your punishments have been very numerous, but father has taken care of
that. Father corrects us and you do the loving part"

"Now, see here, your father loves you also, and it's only the pain of
having lost your mother that makes him appear more severe than he really
is. Open the window, Rosa, I can hardly see, and I must finish this
stocking before I quit tonight."

Rosa obeyed, and a soft breeze entered, laden with the perfume of the
garden, and Teresa resumed; "After the doctor had gone that afternoon your
mother called me and said, Teresa, tell me the truth. The doctor believes I
am going to die; does he not?' I didn't know what to answer her. Your
father hoped in spite of the doctor's opinion that she'd pull through, and
did not wish me to let your poor mother know that there was any danger. But
here she lay praying me with her joined hands that I should tell her the
truth. She spoke with great difficulty and I feared that soon she would not
be able to speak at all, and therefore weeping, told her the whole truth."

"And then?

"Then she said to me, 'Teresa, I'm certainly afraid to die! I'm afraid! I'm
afraid!"

"'But,' said I, 'Madame, why should you be afraid? You have always been so
good to everybody. The good God will take you to heaven.' But she could not
be calm.

"'According to the world's standard perhaps yes, Teresa--but before God! To
think that in a few hours I shall be face to face with the Lord Jesus and I
am not prepared!--No, no, let me speak, Teresa! I have done my duty by my
husband and by my children, but I have forgotten God. I have not loved Him,
neither have I prayed to Him and therefore I'm afraid to meet Him. Oh,
Teresa, I'm afraid to die."

"I could only repeat, 'The good God will pardon you, Madame. He is so good
and kind. He will have pity on you, for you have never done any harm to
anybody.'

"'Ah.' she answered, if I had but listened to my sister and brother-in-law!
How many times they urged me in their letters to surrender to the Lord
Jesus, but I always put it off ... and now I'm dying! Oh, Teresa, Teresa,
can you not help me?'"

"But I thought Mamma died in peace?" suddenly questioned Rosa. "I remember
toward the end that she was anxious to go, and at last said that she was
going to heaven."

"Yes, my beloved madame did indeed die in peace. Sometime after she had
asked me whether I could help her she said, 'Teresa, read again that last
letter from my sister. I have it here under my pillow.' I read it to her as
best I could, and as I finished she said to me, 'Read it again, Teresa. Oh,
if only my dear sister were here this minute!" Twice again I read the
letter, but still she was not satisfied. 'Those last words, Teresa, Read
them again to me, please.' And again I read them."

"Do you remember those last words, Teresa?" Catalina asked as she listened
with rapt attention to the story she had heard so often from the lips of
our old servant.

"I don't remember all. I would have liked to have kept the letter. It was
such a letter that would help any one to die, for it was certainly a
treasure. But my poor madame wished to carry it to the tomb with her, and
no doubt it is there yet in her hands, poor little angel. As I remember it,
the letter concluded thus: 'He that believeth on Me hath everlasting life,
and him that cometh to Me I will in no wise cast out!'"

"I read these, the last words of the letter, a dozen times over to her and
she seemed to take hold of them as a drowning man would grasp a board that
floated by him--then without movement, with her eyes shut, she seemed to be
sleeping, but every once in a while she appeared to be talking with
someone."

"Do you think she was praying, Teresa?" I asked in a trembling voice.

"Yes, Lisita, she was praying. And I am sure that the good God heard her,
for she said to me after a long silence, Teresa, I believe my Saviour has
taken me for His own--I am a poor, guilty, and ungrateful sinner--I have
waited until the last moment, and I know my sins are great, but my
Saviour's love is greater. But oh, my husband!--and my children! I have
done nothing to attract them to God. Oh, Teresa, take care of them! Take
care of them! I have put them in the hands of the Lord that He may save
them also. I can do nothing and--it is too late!'

"She asked me to call your father who was resting in the next room for he
had watched all the previous night and had worked as usual all day. She
could hardly speak, but as best she could she prayed him to be reconciled
to God and to teach their children to know the way of salvation."

"The strange thing to me, Teresa," said Rosa thoughtfully, "is that our
father who loved our mother so much, has not taught us this Christian
religion according to our dear mother's last wish."

"That is the terrible part," Teresa answered. "An awful change came on him
at the death of your mother. He loved her desperately and when she died it
seemed as if his heart turned to stone, and when I tried to console him he
cried out bitterly, 'Don't speak to me of God and don't try to tell me He
is a God of love. He took away my most precious treasure and tore my heart
and my very life to pieces.'

"About a week after the death of my poor madame he called me to him and
said, 'Teresa, you are a good woman. You've brought up my dear Maria,
carried her in your arms when she was small, and in your arms she drew her
last breath. She commended her poor children into your hands, and I want
you to remain forever at their side, but on one condition, remember--that
you never speak to them again on the subject of religion, neither of
prayer, nor of church, nor anything of the kind. Hear me well, Teresa! Hear
me! I have prayed very little in my life, but on that last night when my
dear wife passed away, if anyone prayed with all his heart and all his
strength, I did so. Kneeling beside her bed I promised God to serve Him; to
bring up my children for Him if He would only leave me my treasure. But He
didn't do it Then why should I serve Him?'

"When I saw that it was useless to argue with him I promised what he asked.
Just think, if I had been obliged to abandon you to a strange servant!" and
Teresa viewed the three of us with those great blue eyes of hers full of
affection for us.

"Oh," I cried, trying to take her great fat body in my arms, "What would we
have done without you!"

But Teresa, wanting very much to cry and yet trying hard not to show it,
put me gently aside, saying, "There, there! You are making me lose a lot of
time. Stand up, stand up! You have been on the floor at my feet for over
half-an-hour like a little purring kitten and wearing out your stockings
besides."

And then continuing without awaiting my reply:

"Well, I am only a poor ignorant servant. If I can read, it is because my
poor madame taught me. Nevertheless it has nearly broken my heart to see
all three of you, and Louis besides, growing up like a bunch of heathen.
And, what happiness prayer does bring one!"

"Do you pray, Teresa?" asked the wondering Rosa.

"Oh, at times. But see now, servants must do what they see their masters
do. After the death of my poor madame I prayed often, but little by little
I seemed to lose the habit. Your father hardly ever spoke to me, and
excepting Catalina, you were all too small to understand important things,
and the neighbors!--Oh, you know among our neighbors one never hears any
prayers at their houses either. I would be so happy before I die to see the
day when my poor madame's prayers be heard regarding us."

"It's a shame," said Rosa, "that Paula is so small. If she were only a few
years older perhaps she could"--"I'll tell you what's a shame, and that is
that she is coming at all," interrupted Catalina with the return of her bad
humor.

"Oh," sighed Teresa, "poor little thing! What could she do at her age! A
child of ten years will never be able to change your father's ideas. The
more you speak to him the worse he is. No, the one who has to change will
be the child _herself_! She must learn to do as we do. I do hope she may
not have to suffer too much. Of course, at her age she will adapt herself
quickly to her surroundings, and after all, your father is a good-hearted
man. There! At last the sock is done! It was time, for I cannot see any
more. What a lovely day it has been! The fruit ought to ripen quickly with
a few more days like this."

One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine ... it was the great
clock of Darnetal that recalled us to the present.

"Nine o'clock!" exclaimed Teresa, "how the time has passed! Lisita! Off to
bed!"

"Please, Teresa, let me stay a few minutes more; it's lovely here by the
open window."

"Yes, it won't be so lovely tomorrow morning when you must rise early to be
in class on time. Isn't that so? Now go, Lisita! No more nonsense!"

"Here, take this," said Catalina, handing me a lovely orange that she had
received; "You can have it if you go to bed immediately!"

"Oh," I exclaimed beamingly; "I do love you so, dear Catalina."

"Is it me or the orange that you love?"

"It's you, and the orange, and Teresa, and Papa, and Rosa, and Louis, and
Paula."

"There! there! Go to bed," said Catalina, disentangling herself from my
arms. "If you don't go to bed at once I will take away your orange."

Laughing, I embraced her again, and Rosa too, and then rushed off to my
room, but not without slamming Catalina's door with a noise that shook the
whole house.



CHAPTER THREE

PAULA ARRIVES

For nearly a week I couldn't think of another thing but the coming of
Paula.

My father had gone to Paris. He would be there some days to arrange certain
important matters of business in connection with his factory, and also to
wait for the little orphan to be placed in his care by a lady who was
journeying from Villar to Paris. In school I talked of nothing else. In
fact, I talked about her all day and every day. I learned nothing, nor
could I seem to do anything around the house.

One night, while dreaming, I jumped from the bed, crying, "Paula! Paula!"
This awakened Teresa, and she made me take some nasty medicine thinking I
had fever. I made promises of reform. I wanted to be good, studious and
patient, in order to be an example to Paula who would see my good qualities
and would thus endeavor to imitate me. Nevertheless I became absolutely
insufferable! My older sisters without being quite so enthusiastic as I
was, nevertheless spoke often of Paula. Catalina began to worry that Paula
might suffer in our house, but she soon consoled herself by remembering
that my father had promised to put her out to board, if it turned out that
she could not get along amicably with us. As to Louis, he soon showed us
that he was not at all interested in the arrival of his young cousin. If it
had been a boy, it would have been different--but a girl!

Teresa spoke very little as to Paula, but I am persuaded that long before
the arrival of our little orphan cousin, she had been given a large place
in our old servant's heart. She found a little white bed up in the attic
which was placed in my room beside my own cot.

At last the great day arrived. It was a Wednesday, and of course I had to
go to school as usual. We did not know at what hour my father would come
from Paris with Paula, and so every moment I said to myself, "Perhaps they
have arrived!" Result--my lessons went from bad to worse, but at last at
five in the afternoon, I reached the house breathless only to find that
Paula had not yet come. "They are not coming!" I cried impatiently, "I knew
they wouldn't be here!"

"Then why did you run so fast?" Teresa asked.

I said nothing, but soon Rosa also arrived, and after tea I put all my
books in order, redressed my dolls, got rid of the ink on my hands with
pumice-stone, and in between each task, took a turn in the garden on the
passing of any coach-but always with the same result! Would they _ever_
arrive? Then came supper-time. Catalina had been up and dressed all day and
would not hear of going to bed until Paula came. Our summer days are very
long, but night had arrived, the lamps had been lighted, and we had
resigned ourselves to wait without the consolation of seeing the road from
the window. Then suddenly--Oh, joy! We heard a faint sound of wheels in the
distance; then clearer and clearer as they rattled over the pavement of the
deserted street. Teresa had already arisen from her chair. I had a wild
desire to run out in the dark to receive my young cousin for whom I had
waited all these weeks, but something seemed to detain me. Then while I
waited questioning myself as to what I would say to Paula, trying to
remember all the many counsels of Teresa, our old servant staggered in from
the yard with a great bag in each hand. Then our father entered with a
young girl at his side dressed in black. Paula had come!

In anticipation I had fancied Paula as a pale, sad little girl with blue
eyes full of tears. She would have golden hair, very smooth, cut off at the
base of her ears, and would be dressed in black muslin, and wear a straw
hat with a black ribbon tied under her chin. But here was a different
Paula. She was large for her age and appeared quite strong. Her frank open
face, bronzed with the sun and air, showed health and intelligence. A black
silk cap with a wide ribbon of the same color, failed to entirely hide a
magnificent head of brown hair, gathered beneath her cap after the manner
of the Waldensians. Her simple dress of black and gray stripes reached
almost to her ankles, while an apron of fine cretonne came to her knees. A
black shawl whose points passed under her arms and were knotted behind,
protected her shoulders, while a pair of great thick shoes completed her
attire. In spite of what to our mind was a certain quaint oddness in her
dress, it could not hide Paula's beauty. Her forehead was broad and
intelligent, her large brown eyes were full of a certain sweetness, and a
lovely smile played on her half-opened lips.

"Come," said our father in an almost kindly voice for him; "Embrace your
young cousin, and give her a hearty welcome."

Rosa came forward, and I timidly did the same; but Paula dropping father's
hand, rushed toward Rosa and then to me, kissing us both and laughing and
crying at the same time. She seemed to forget her long voyage and her
weariness as she repeated to each one of us in her melodious voice, "I know
I shall love you all, and my Uncle Charles here. I already love him, and he
has told me all your names. Let me see, this is Rosa," and then turning to
me, "You are Lisita. Oh, if you only knew how much I love you all!"

"Now go and greet your cousin Catalina," said my father. "She is the sick
one," he added softly.

Paula drew near the big chair where the sick girl re-clined. Catalina was
smiling sadly at the young stranger. "Do you also love me a little?" asked
my eldest sister.

With tenderness and infinite care Paula enveloped her in her strong arms.
"I already love you with all my heart!" she said, laying her head against
Catalina's shoulder.

"Have you ever been sick, Paula?" she questioned her.

"No, but Papa was," she said in a trembling tone.

At this moment Teresa arrived carrying in the final bag. "At last," she
said, embracing Paula. "Do you know who I am?" Then, seeing that Paula
viewed her a bit strangely, she added, "I am only old Teresa. It was I who
brought up your dear mother, and I thought I would have to do the same with
you; but it looks to me as if you wouldn't need very much of my care. You
are so large and healthy, much bigger than Lisita here, and yet you
probably are no older. How old are you, pray?"

"I am ten years old, madame."

"Oh, don't call me 'madame.' Call me Teresa, just as your mother did many
years ago."

And Teresa took the lamp and brought it close to Paula. "No, you hardly
have any similiarity in your face, but your voice is like hers. Now, let me
hug you once more, my treasure." And Teresa pressed to her heart the
motherless child.

"In my country they say I am like Papa. In fact, I have his portrait in the
trunk and I will show it to you."

"Show it to us now!" I shouted.

But Teresa interrupted me. "What a child you are, when poor Paula is so
tired! Tomorrow will be time enough."

The meal for the young traveler had been prepared on the end of the great
table, where Teresa had placed buttered toast and jam, and soon she sallied
from the kitchen with the rest of the food.

"There you are, Paula," Teresa said, drawing her to the table; "Sit down
and eat!"

"And the others?" said Paula, looking at us.

"Oh, we ate long ago," said Rosa.

"I think we might eat a little bread and jam to accompany her," I said.
Then everybody laughed.

"I think Lisita is right for once," said Teresa, always happy when she was
able to give us a bit of pleasure; "and I think Paula will be a little more
comfortable that way."

"Now then, Paula, are you not hungry?" asked Teresa with her hand on the
lock of the kitchen door.

"Yes, madame ... that is--yes, Teresa."

"Begin then! Lisita doesn't need any urging. Do as she does, and I trust
you will eat with a good appetite."

Paula looked at us, one after the other, and then looked at Teresa as if
she would say something. As Teresa remained, looking on in an astonished
manner, Paula got down from her chair and stood in front of her now cooling
cup of hot milk. She placed her hands together, closing her eyes and
bending her head a little, she said slowly and deliberately in a low voice,
"The food which we receive, O Lord, may it be blessed, in the name of the
Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, Amen!"



CHAPTER FOUR

PAULA'S TREASURES

Naturally, on awakening the next morning, after Paula's arrival, it was
"Paula, Paula, Paula," that occupied my every thought. I found she was
still sleeping. How I did wish to wake her up! But Teresa had cautioned me
to let her sleep as long as she wished on account of her long journey of
the day before. So I simply half-opened the curtains of her bed and closed
the window to warm up the room.

I had no idea what hour it was. Teresa had the watch under her pillow, and
I could never tell the time by the sun, like Louis and Rosa, but I could
tell it was very early, for almost every door and window of the red houses
across the street, were still closed. Once in a while, I saw a factory hand
passing with his lunch under his arm, on his way to work. Among these, I
noticed one whom we called the "Breton," a terrific drunkard of whom I was
greatly afraid; but, strange to say, this morning he went on his way with a
firm, straight step, behaving himself quite like an ordinary person.

The sky was clear and very, very blue, without a single cloud. It had
rained the night before, for on all the trees and bushes thousands of
water-drops glistened like diamonds in the light of the newly risen sun.

Dozens of little birds were singing their morning songs in the great linden
trees on the avenue, and the scent of the flowers from the laborers' little
gardens over the way, floated in through the window, and what a multitude
they were!--roses, lilies, geraniums, pansies and forget-me-nots. I could
not see our own garden from our bedroom window, but I knew that there also
there would be flowers in profusion, thanks to faithful Teresa's unceasing
care. Here also hung that delight of my life--the swing which my father had
placed under the apple-tree one happy day five years ago. Oh, how Paula
would love it, and how happy she would be among us! Again I took a peep
between the curtains but still she slept. Would she never wake up? Now I
had a chance to observe her more closely. That beautiful face, just a bit
serious, buried in the white pillow, on which were signs of moisture,
betraying the fact that tears had been mixed with her slumbers.

It was long after we finished breakfast, and our father had gone to his
work, that she finally awoke. But now, all her sadness had disappeared, and
not a sign of a tear remained. She ate her breakfast with great gusto, not
however without again performing that strange custom of putting her hands
together, and repeating the prayer which our astonished ears had heard the
night before.

Teresa searched among my sister's clothes for something a little more
modern with which to clothe our little country visitor. Meanwhile Paula
chatted happily to us, telling us quite a little of her life in that
far-off Waldensian valley. In the winter she and her father had lived in
the stable in the midst of the cows, goats, sheep, rabbits, etc. It was the
heat from the bodies of these animals that kept them quite warm; and at the
same time saved the price of the fuel which would otherwise have been
necessary if they had stayed during the day in the dwelling-house.
Sometimes, she told us, the poor from the village would come to their
stable, bringing their children with them for this same purpose of getting
warm without any expenditure for fuel. Then, what happiness and what games
they had together, in that little space in the stable between the animals!

Oh, yes, she went to the school, she said--the little school whose teacher
was her own father who every afternoon gathered the children together in
that self-same stable. In the evening, the neighbors would bring each one
his own little stool, crowding into every unoccupied space that could be
found in the stable; the women spinning, the men reading in turn from the
Bible by the light of a tallow candle. Meanwhile the babies were put to
sleep in the straw above the sheep-fold, until the time came to disperse
for the night Paula, being a great girl of ten years old, always tried
desperately to keep awake along with the older folks. Toward the close of
the evening, her father would say, "Now, my friends, let us meet before the
Lord." Then the needles would be put away, the hymn-books would be taken
out, and often they would sing far into the night. Then after earnest
prayers by several of the neighbors, the long winter meeting would break
up.

Of course, Paula preferred the summer, she said, when she ran barefoot
through the flower-covered fields or when she accompanied her father as
they gathered the wheat. Then at other times she had to take her turn
caring for the flocks of sheep and goats, and see that the lambs and little
kids did not stray too far away. She never tired of watching these happy
little creatures with their thousand antics as thy jumped over the rocks.

In the summer, how happy she was in those vast green Alpine fields, how
magnificent that pure air, and that bluest of all blue skies! And in the
autumn!--What a beautiful season was that, with the nut-gathering and the
bringing in of the apples and the grapes. Then she told us how our Uncle
John would take the honey from the hives, that golden honey with its
heavenly taste.

As she spoke, Paula with her lovely animated face, appeared to live again
in her happy past, quite forgetful that she was now far away from her
beloved, sunny land of the Alps, where that dear father slept on the
hillside, nevermore to return.

I, of course, had been in the habit of hearing our mother speak of her home
in the Alps with nothing but sighs and tears. It astonished me now to hear
this young creature so full of life and vigor and happiness speak of her
old life in Waldensia. I had been preparing myself to console her and
endeavor to make her happy and forget her past life of poverty. But now it
was quite the contrary. Here was Paula scattering happiness and love all
around her, entertaining us and making us laugh at her wonderful stories.

Teresa came and went from one room to another opening boxes, finding here a
dress that Catalina could not wear any more, there an apron that had grown
too short for Rosa, and here again a pair of small shoes that would no
doubt fit our country cousin, with a black ribbon or two that had formerly
served us in our time of mourning when mamma died. From her bed in the
other room, Catalina listened, calling me at times to re-tell some of the
conversation which she had missed, and Rosa wrote a letter to Louis to tell
him in detail all about Paula's arrival.

Of course, we were all in high good humor, but I believe I was the happiest
of all, for I certainly loved this newly-arrived cousin of mine and found
her a thousand times finer than I had even imagined.

I said to her once without thinking, "Paula, were you very sorry when you
lost your father?" Teresa looked at me threateningly, but it was too late!
Paula had already heard me and her eyes filled with tears. I would have
given a good deal if I could have recalled my thoughtless words. "Father is
in heaven," said this valiant, young daughter of his. "He suffered much
before he died, but now he is happy indeed! One day I shall go and be with
him there."

Never had I heard such an astonishing statement. Suddenly Teresa exclaimed,
her voice shaking with emotion, "Surely, thou art a daughter of the good
God and our very beloved Paula!"

The three days that followed Paula's arrival were very happy ones for me. I
greatly wanted to take her to school with me, but my father thought that
for a while she would be better in the house, where she could accustom
herself to her new life and be with poor Catalina whose strength diminished
day by day.

In the morning, and at dinner-time, and after school, and in the evening,
we were always together. On my return from school, we took tea together out
of doors. When I had finished my home-work, we would dig together in my
portion of the garden, and then as the summer days were long ones, Teresa
would let us play outside until bed-time.

Of course, I showed Paula all our toys and dolls and the wonderful
illustrated books that had been given me from time to time by relatives and
friends. Paula was in ecstasies in this new world of books that opened
before her. She touched my dolls one by one, looking at them with awe,
examining their clothes, passing and repassing her fingers through their
hair and exclaimed, "Oh, how beautiful! Never have I seen such things
before!" Paula in her turn, showed us her treasures. They were not very
numerous, but we could see our country cousin esteemed them very highly.
With a trembling hand she untied a red-and-blue pocket-handkerchief, and
without a word placed on the table a portrait, a little black-covered book,
and some faded flowers. I took up the portrait. It was that of a young man
with smiling eyes, quite similar to those of Paula, and with that same
kindness and sweetness in his face, so that it was not difficult to
recognize who he might be. "It's my father," said Paula quite simply.

I wished at that moment I could have said something to comfort her but I
could not find a word to say. Sobbing, I embraced her, and I felt her hot
tears mingling with mine.

"Don't let us cry any more," she said presently. "My father has gone to
heaven and my mother also. They are there with the Lord. Some day we shall
go and join them, and we shall be with them there forever; shall we not,
Lisita?" "Yes," I said, somewhat troubled.

"See my flowers," she said. "I picked them near our house in the morning
just before leaving. Do you not see? Here are forget-me-nots, pansies and
daisies. Poor little things! It is hard to recognize them, but I shall keep
them always, and when I return to Villar, I will carry them with me." "But
you will never return there," I cried, "you are to stay with us always. I
never want you to leave us."

"Well, don't worry about that, Lisita. When we grow up, you will go with me
to my old home. Uncle Peter and the man that rented the farm from father,
promised me never to leave the place until I grew up and returned. So I
made them a solemn promise that I would come back and take over the farm
some day. Perhaps the cows and the goats and the rabbits will all be
different when I go back. If you only knew how I cried when I kissed them
all on coming away. They all know me so well. I wonder if they still
remember me."

With a sigh, Paula put her flowers back carefully in the handkerchief, and
then passed over the little black book to me. "This is my Bible," she said.
"It was my father's for years, and he gave it to me on the day he died.
See, he has written my name here on the first page."

I was hardly able to decipher the shaky signature of our Uncle John, but
finally made out the following,

  "To
  PAULA JAVANEL
  A remembrance from her dying father."

It was an old book with many loosened leaves. On each page were many
underlined passages, some marked with pencil, others with ink, with small
neat comments in the margins.

"This is my most precious treasure," said Paula. "Father had it in his
hands as he breathed his last. I promised him to read from it every day of
my life, asking the Lord's help to understand what I read. Although Papa is
no longer here, still I obey him. I try to remember all that he told me. He
was a wonderful man, this dear father of mine, and how he did love the
Lord! My one desire is to be like him."

"Yes, but you are only a girl yet," I said to her.

"That's true, Lisita, naturally I know that, but father used to say to me,
'You're not too small to serve the Lord, Paula!' I read the Bible with him
many times, and when we didn't have time to read it in the house, we took
it to the fields with us and read it as we rested. Then as I watched the
cows and sheep, I read the Book alone. And now you and I can read it
together; can we not, Lisita? And I know the Lord will help us to make
everybody else happy around us. I've never had a sister, and now that you
say you wish to be my sister, my prayers are answered!"

Then after a pause, she said, "Why don't you answer me, Lisita?" And she
laid her head on my shoulder and fixed her great eyes upon me. How could I
answer her! I had a great desire to tell her of the true situation. We all
of us wished to be as good as possible, if that should please her, but we
would never be permitted to read the Bible. I knew father would never
consent to that. Yet how could I tell her that things in our house were not
as they were in hers--in that God was never mentioned! Then I remembered a
long discussion our old servant had had that very morning with my sisters
on this subject, and Teresa had ended the matter by saying, "She's only a
little girl, anyway, and she'll soon become accustomed to do as we do.
Besides your father will remember how she has been brought up, and he has
too good a heart to make the poor child unhappy. Of course in the end the
thing will finally adjust itself. Poor little thing! How she would suffer
if we should bluntly tell her the truth that we live here in this house
like a bunch of savages."

As I searched my poor brain for a reply, Teresa without knowing it, came to
my help by calling me into the kitchen. Upon any other occasion, I would
have simply answered, without moving, "What do you want?" But now I was
only too glad to obey her immediately and so put an end to a difficult
situation. "I'm going to town," she said, as she put on a clean apron.
"Perhaps you and Paula would like to come along." "What a lark!" I cried,
as I ran out to tell the glad news to Paula, and two minutes later we were
ready.

Teresa looked us over from head to foot, reminding us that the strings of
our shoes hadn't even been tied, that our faces and hands showed signs of
an all-too-hasty toilet, to say nothing of a lack of a comb in our hair.
Finally, however, we were on the road to town, happy to find ourselves in
the cool shade of the long avenue of linden trees that stretched away in
the distance. What a joy it was to have at my side this new, wonderful
companion to whom I would be able to open the mysteries of the great shops
and public buildings--marvelous things which this simple country girl had
never seen before in all her life. What could be greater happiness for any
girl of my age!



CHAPTER FIVE

LOUIS' WATCH

When Louis returned at the end of the week, he was surprised to find Paula
so happy and contented. He found her in the kitchen helping Teresa to dry
the dishes. "One would think," said he, "that you had been with us for many
months instead of a few days." Paula showed herself to be much more
embarrassed in his presence than she had been with us. It may have been the
school uniform that did it. But Louis, like the good-hearted lad that he
was, did what he could to make her feel at home. Presently, out we went
into the garden to play, not without an anxious look from Teresa, for she
knew that when Louis came into any situation, he generally caused trouble.
When, however, we returned with our aprons decorated with mud but still
happy, the good old lady heaved a sigh of relief. The fact is, that when
Louis played with us he always acted as he did with the boys at school. But
no matter what happened, Paula seemed afraid of nothing. When it came to
running races, Louis found to his great chagrin, that she could even beat
him at this; and in the other games if she happened to fall and hurt
herself, she'd rub an injured knee with a laugh or sucked a stubbed finger
without further comment, and go on playing as if nothing had happened. But
in spite of entering wholeheartedly into all our fun, it was easy to see
that our servant had well named her, "The daughter of the good God!" She
was always ready to step aside and let others take the first place, and to
yield all her own rights, to recover a ball at whatever distance when a
dispute arose as to, "Who should get it?" or to look for a lost kite, no
matter how thick the brambles might be. No wonder Louis was quite content
to have such an accommodating companion!

Then the moment arrived when we must go back to the house. That fatal time
always seemed to arrive on the wings of the wind. Teresa seldom had any
time to come and call us, but she relied on Louis, as he had a watch.
Beside all that, we could clearly hear the hour strike in the great clock
on Darnetal Church.

"Listen," cried Paula, woefully, "it's nine o'clock, and Teresa said we
must go back to the house at nine."

"Oh, shut up," said Louis. (He had just started a thrilling new game of
jumping from a high wall.) "I'll tell you when it's time to go home. Now
are you ready? Hurry up, Paula, get the ladder. There it is, under the
cherry-tree!" Paula obediently ran and returned with the required ladder,
and helped Louis put it in position, saying at the same time, "But Louis,
you know well that Teresa told us that we must be in at nine o'clock."

"Oh, yes, I heard it," said Louis ill-humoredly.

"Well, then we must go!"

"Oh, not yet, five minutes more or less won't make any difference."

"No, five minutes won't make any great difference, of course," said Paula
slowly, "and it certainly is lovely here, but Teresa ordered us in at nine
o'clock. I'll run and ask her if we cannot stay another fifteen minutes."

"Certainly not," sneered Louis. "Teresa would never give permission. Now,
hurry up, you're first on the wall, Paula."

"No, I'm not going to stay. Teresa will be angry."

"No, no, never fear. Besides, she'll never know. I think she's out."

"Well, she'll know when she returns. She'll ask us what time we came in."

"Oh, you needn't worry about that," and Louis took out his watch. "I can
fix that matter easily." We both looked over his shoulder at the watch,
which by this time clearly pointed to five minutes after the hour.
Suddenly, we saw the hands of the watch begin to turn backwards. "Now,"
said Louis, "what time it is?"

"Half-past eight," answered Paula, lifting astonished eyes to her cousin's
face.

"Well, if it's half-past eight why do you look at me like that?"

"Because I don't understand."

"What do you mean by saying you don't understand? It's all quite simple. If
Teresa is angry, I'll tell her that we left the garden at nine o'clock;
then I'll show her my watch."

"But," cried Paula, quite upset, "that would be a lie!"

"Nonsense, you foolish youngster, that's not a lie. We'll go from here at
the dot of nine, according to my watch, and that's what I'll tell Teresa in
case she asks us. Of course, if she doesn't ask us, we don't have to say
anything. Besides, I do it for you and Lisita, for if you were boys instead
of girls, there would be no reason to return so early. Now, up with you.
Yes, or no."

"Not I," said Paula, with a heightened color. Louis was furious.

"No, you say? Oh," he laughed, "the wall's too high." Paula looked at the
wall. It was certainly high, but he knew very well from past exploits that
the height would not bother her.

"No," she said, "I'm not afraid to jump. Over in Villar, when I had to tend
the goats, many a time I have had to jump from far greater heights than
that to keep them from straying into our neighbor's pastures; but I tell
you now, we promised Teresa to return at nine o'clock, and I'm not going to
disobey her."

Then it was that I joined in on the side of Louis. "If you're always going
to obey Teresa, you'll never have a quiet moment."

"Then are you, too, going to stay with Louis?" Paula asked sadly.

"Of course," cried Louis, without giving me time to reply. "And now, go if
you wish and leave us in peace. Get out of the way!"

Paula, who was seated on the lowest rung of the ladder, immediately stepped
aside and soon Louis was on the wall.

"Now, it's your turn," he called to me. I followed my brother as Paula
slowly moved away up the garden walk.

"I'm going back with Paula," I said to Louis. Then from the top of the
wall, I saw her turn her head for one last look.

"Oh, let her go!" said Louis. "She can find her own way. I'm afraid the
little fool is going to become impossible. Now, do as I do. But be sure and
don't break your nose, for Teresa will blame me."

"You jump first," I said.

"Getting afraid, are you? All right, see me jump. One, two, three!" and
down he went, in the middle of a pansy-bed, Teresa's especial pride and the
object of her particular care.

"Oh, oh," I cried, viewing the ruin that Louis had made. "Now, won't Teresa
be angry indeed!"

"Well, why should I care?" said Louis. "Why did she have to put flowers
alongside of a perfectly good wall like this? Now, hurry up and jump. We'll
fix it up and water it, and she'll know nothing about what happened."

"Oh, Louis, I'm afraid!"--Certainly the distance to the ground seemed
enormous!

"What are you afraid of? I'll catch you if you fall. Don't be a
'fraidcat!'" Just at that moment I would have done anything rather than
jump.

"I'm coming down by the ladder."

"No, you'll do no such thing! Now, come on; don't be a coward!"

Just at this moment we heard a voice calling, "Louis! Lisita!"

Louis turned to see Paula calling us from the bottom of the garden.

"And now what do you want?" cried Louis. "I thought you had gone home."

I profited by this diversion to come rapidly down the ladder.

"I was almost at the house," answered Paula, coming nearer, "but I didn't
go in because I didn't want to meet Teresa."

"Why not?"

"Because I didn't know what to say to her, if she should ask me where you
two were."

"Well, wouldn't you have told her the truth?"

"Of course, I would have had to tell her. That's why I've come back to look
for you. I've run all the way. Oh, please, come now; won't you?"

My brother seemed to hesitate.

"You know I hated to disobey," added Paula, with tears in her eyes, "and at
the same time, I don't like to be a 'tattle-tale.' Won't you please come
home now with me?"

Louis was a good-hearted lad in spite of his shortcomings. Therefore,
seeing his young cousin beginning to cry, he said, "All right, let's go.
Anyway, I can't play the way I want, especially with a pair of youngsters
like you two. But, look here, Paula, you forgot the ladder. Take it away
now, if you want us to play up to all your nonsense."

Paula, grabbing the ladder, simply said, "Oh, thank you so much," as she
dried her tears. I went meanwhile and filled the watering-pot while Louis
tried to restore the crushed pansies as best he could.

"There you are," said Louis finally, "Teresa will never know." And off we
all three raced for the house.

"And so you are back already," remarked Teresa as we invaded the kitchen.

"Back already!" said Louis. "It's more than a quarter after nine, but if it
hadn't been for the country cousin here, we'd have been a whole lot later."



CHAPTER SIX

IN THE MIDST OF DARKNESS

My father had not had much time to pay attention to Paula since her
arrival; for on his return from his long trip he had found the head of the
factory very sick. This had so increased his duties that he hardly had time
in the morning to take a hurried cup of coffee, before going off to his
work. In the evening, he always went to see Catalina for a few moments, and
then he shut himself in his room where he worked far into the night.

It was, therefore, with a sigh of relief that he sat down at the family
table on Sunday morning to take breakfast with us children.

"Now, then, Paula," he said, turning to our cousin as Teresa served us
coffee, "you haven't told me how you like your new family?"

Paula colored a little as she said, "Oh, I love you all very much, uncle
mine."

"Well, that's a happy reply," said my father, "and we love you also, my
little daughter."

The coffee had been served. Paula had been with us four days and she knew
that we never asked the blessing; but she never dreamed that anyone would
hinder her from following her own custom which she still continued at every
meal. Without any hesitation therefore, she repeated in front of my father,
the words that had surprised us so at our very first meal. "The food which
we receive, O Lord, may it be blessed in the name of the Father, and of the
Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen."

"What's that you say?" said my father, hardly giving her time to conclude.

Paula, still on her feet, with her hands still joined for the prayer, fixed
her great luminous eyes on my father.

She was not smiling now, and I saw that she understood that somehow she
must have displeased him.

"Answer me," demanded my father. "What were you doing?"

"But ..."

"Repeat those words of your prayer."

Paula quietly obeyed.

"Where did you learn that?"

"My father taught it to me. We always prayed before and after eating."
Paula said this with a trembling voice, trying to restrain her tears.

"Listen to me, Paula," my father said in a voice much less severe; "I don't
wish you to imagine that I'm angry with you. In fact, I'm glad that you
want to remember your father and his words. That is all very well. But I
simply wish you to understand that in the future you are to conduct
yourself like the other members of my family. Do you understand, my little
daughter?"

"No, uncle, I don't."

"No? Well, then, I must speak more plainly. Your cousins no doubt have
already told you that in this house I will permit no word relative to
religion. In the future that applies to you also."

"But, uncle dear!"

"That will do. When you come to more mature years you will be able to
understand my reasons, and if you should desire it at that time I will give
them to you. At present it is enough for you to know that you are not to
pray anymore. Hand me the morning paper, Rosa."

We ate in silence, all except Paula who apparently couldn't swallow a
mouthful. Our father with his eyes buried in the paper, paid no more
attention to her. I had a great desire to cry without knowing why, for I
couldn't possibly understand why my father's warning should make Paula so
unhappy. Father had not punished her, yet, nevertheless, to see her stand
there with a mixture of grief and fright on her pale face, one would have
thought that she had been threatened with a most terrible misfortune.

Rosa and Louis made understanding signs to one another. Meanwhile to
demonstrate my own sympathy, I tried to take my poor cousin's hand, but she
withdrew it, and I understood that it was useless to try to comfort her.

"Uncle," she cried suddenly, "oh, uncle mine, please pardon me but I
cannot, cannot obey you."

"What's this?" said my father, gazing at her with stupefaction and growing
anger. Our surprise at this untoward daring of our young country cousin was
so great, that even Louis dropped his spoon and forgot to eat.

We had disobeyed very often, especially Louis and I, and many times we had
been punished for it, for disobedience in my father's eyes was the greatest
of all crimes; but never had we dared to defy him openly.

"Paula, be quiet," cried Rosa, fearing the terrible consequences of such
temerity.

To our great surprise, my father, in spite of his anger, remained calm.

"So you don't wish to obey me," he said, fixing Paula with a cold and
severe eye. "That's the first time I've ever heard such words from any
child in this house. Tell me, my daughter, what do you mean?"

"Oh, dear uncle," she said, drawing quite close to father, "oh, oh, uncle
mine, don't be angry, please. I do wish to obey you in everything. Oh, yes,
in everything, everything! I promised my father to be good and to show to
everyone that I am a daughter of the Lord Jesus. But, oh, uncle, I must
pray, and I must serve the Lord. My father told me so, and God Himself
tells me so, for so it is written down in the Bible itself."

"I think," said my father, "you will find written in your Bible, these
words, 'Children, obey your parents.' And according to you, you ought to
obey the Bible."

"Yes, I know that well, those words truly are in the Bible, but papa told
me that I should always obey God, cost what it may. Oh, dear uncle, surely
you wish to serve Him. The Lord died for us, and for this, of course, we
love Him. And I thought that you loved Him too. I never knew that there
were people in this world who did not love God. Oh, please let me pray,
dear uncle. I beg of you, I beg of you. Papa, my dear papa, oh, if he
should know that I could never pray anymore! I promised him I'd see him in
heaven one day, and he'll be waiting for us there, waiting there for all of
us, you, and Lisita, and Rosa, and Catalina, and everybody. Oh, please,
please let me pray!" And Paula put her head on my father's shoulder and
sobbed as if her heart would break.

"Oh, let her pray, father," implored Rosa in a low voice. "She is so young,
she'll soon forget." We could all see that there was a great struggle in my
father's innermost self, as a tender look came in his eye, as if he would
say, "Don't cry any more. There, there! Pray if you wish." But suddenly his
eye rested on us and the stern look returned. He had forgotten us. If he
gave way to Paula now, how about the discipline of the rest of his family?
Besides, if he permitted her to pray, what would hinder us also from
invoking that same holy Name? It was too much.

"Listen, I tell you," he said; "you must obey, and obey at once. This thing
has gone too far already." The only reply that came was the sound of
Paula's crying. "There, there," said my father, "Stop your crying. I know
your religion perfectly, and once I was on the point of practising it, but,
as I said before, your religion teaches obedience to those who are over
you."

Paula raised her head, and amid her tears she said, "Listen, uncle dear,
I'm only a little girl, and I don't know much, and I can't explain to you
what I wish to say. I know well that it is my duty to obey you, and so my
father instructed me before he died, and when I disobeyed him, he punished
me, but in my father's case--" and here she hesitated.

"Go on, go on," said my father.

"My father's will was also God's will. He used to say that he was my
earthly father but that God was my heavenly Father, and that if he should
die, God was to be my Father forever. And no matter what happened, or where
I was, I must continue to serve God, no matter who endeavored to stop me.
For it is written in God's Word, 'We should obey God, rather than men.'"

I saw my father go pale with anger. "You're an insolent girl!" he cried.
"And I have a good mind to give you a good whipping, to teach you to
respect your elders."

Paula looked at him with surprise. "I don't understand, uncle. Those words
are written in the New Testament."

"Show them to me," ordered my father.

Paula, glad to escape for a moment, ran for her Bible, which was always
beside her in our little bedroom. As she crossed the threshold, Teresa
entered to carry away the dishes. "What now? What's the matter?" said the
old servant as she looked at Paula's tearful face. "What on earth have you
been crying about, poor child?"

My father answered for her. "She's been guilty of most incredible
impertinence."

"That's strange," said the old servant. "That's not a bit like her, with
her happy, humble ways with all of us."

"That may be," said my father, "but it's just as I feared. She's got all
the ideas of her father's family. She talks of nothing but God and the
Bible and of her religion, and that's insupportable in this house."

"Oh, do go slow, sir," Teresa implored. "She's a mere child yet."

"Yes, but she must obey."

Teresa contented herself with a shrug of her shoulders, for she saw that my
father was not going to yield. And now Paula had returned with her Bible in
hand.

"And now," said my father, after a moment of silence, "let us see those
words. Have you found them yet?"

Paula had paused, her hand turning over the pages of her Bible rapidly.
"No, uncle, not yet, but I will find them soon."

Again there was silence. Teresa had returned to the kitchen, the door
closing with a bang to demonstrate her displeasure. Nothing could be heard
but the tick-tack of the clock, and the sound of the turning pages, as
Paula, in spite of her tears, looked for the desired words.

"Here it is," she said at last, smiling in spite of her emotion. "See,
uncle, here you are, at the fifth chapter of Acts, verse 29."

"'We ought to obey God, rather than men!'" murmured my father two or three
times, as he read the words of Holy Writ, while Paula looked at him with
confident eyes, even though a few tears still lingered.

"Let us see, now, something of the context," he added. "Oh, yes, here it
is," and he commenced to read aloud,

  "'And the high priest asked them saying, Did not we straitly command you
  that ye should not teach in this name? and, behold, ye have filled
  Jerusalem with your doctrine, and intend to bring this man's blood upon
  us. Then Peter and the other apostles answered and said, _We ought to
  obey God rather than men_.'"

Teresa, who had forgotten the tablecloth, came to get it, and smiled as she
saw that happiness had again returned to Paula's countenance; for nothing
pleased the good woman more than to find everybody in the house happy.

My father leaving certain directions relative to Catalina whom he had found
very weak that morning, gathered up his papers, also the Bible, and started
to go out.

"Uncle," Paula reminded him timidly, "you've made a mistake. You are
carrying my Bible away with your papers."

"Yes, that is true, but I've made no mistake. I'm keeping your Bible now."

"And you will return it to me tonight, uncle?"

"And why tonight?"

"To read it, uncle, as I always do, every night."

"Well, you're not going to read it any more! My children do not read the
Bible and they're not so bad. And I've already told you that from now on,
you're going to live the same as all the other members of my family, of
which you now form a part!"

"Oh, uncle, uncle!" implored Paula, "please leave me that Bible! It is the
Bible my father gave me on his dying bed! Please let me have it, I pray
you, my dear uncle! I will be good, and I will give you everything that I
brought here from Villar. But leave me my Bible, please! please! Leave me
my Bible!" Paula sobbed, clinging to my father with a desperate courage.

Teresa, who had viewed this scene with dismay, did not dare to interfere.
She came and went, pretending to arrange things here and there in the room.

For my part, I could not comprehend Paula's conduct, not being able to
imagine why she should dare so much for her little old black book--I, who
would have exchanged all my books for a new doll; but I would have suffered
anything to help her now. And so in spite of all Teresa's signs for me to
keep quiet and sit down, I took my father by the sleeve and burst into
tears saying, "Papa, please give it to her."

My father turned and looked at me for an instant. Never had I seen him so
angry. His face had become as white as a sheet. Suddenly throwing Paula
off, who had been holding on to him on the other side, he raised the Bible
over her head and with a thundering voice, he threatened her. "Will you
keep quiet?" Paula appeared not to have heard him.

"Oh, dear uncle," she implored once more, extending her hands to secure her
treasured book, "oh, uncle." In reply all I heard was a dull thud, and I
saw Paula fall to the ground. Beside himself, my father had given her a
tremendous blow on the head with the Bible.

Teresa rushed toward the child and carried her into the kitchen, turning as
she did so toward my father "Have a care, sir," she cried, her voice
trembling with indignation. "Mark my words, you will repent some day of
what you have just done."

It appeared to me that my father had already repented. He took his hat
without a word and went out, and did not return until the evening.

       *       *       *       *       *

"What a shame that Paula isn't a boy," said Louis, as soon as our father
had disappeared.

"Why?" I asked.

"Because she is so brave. Did you notice she stopped crying as soon as
father hit her? In her place, you would have been crying yet."

"And you? How about yourself?"

"Oh, boys wouldn't cry for a little thing like that. I'm surprised, though,
that father hit her."

"I'm surprised too," said Rosa, "but, of course, she must learn to obey."

"I wonder what can be in this Bible of hers to make her love it so,"
continued Louis. "Any way, what is a Bible? Is it a kind of a prayer-book?"

"No," I said, proud that I knew so much, "it's not a prayer-book. At least
I have seen Paula pray in the morning and at night. She kneels and closes
her eyes and prays, and does not use the Book at all during the time that
she prays. She tells me that in the Book she learns how to be good and to
serve God. Her father used to read it to her every day, and when he died
she promised him to continue to read it."

"Poor Paula!" sighed Rosa. "There is something mighty fine about her. I
wonder how all this is going to come out."

"I think she'll die," I said, trying hard to keep back the tears.

"Nonsense," said Louis, "she'll not die! Not she! Don't worry about that.
In a few days she'll forget all about it. But I can't help feeling very
sorry to see her so unhappy. Well, good-bye, Rosa. Don't cry anymore,
Lisita. I'm going into the kitchen to see what's happened to poor Paula."

I followed him out and we found the kitchen empty. I went to our room and
found Teresa seated on my bed with Paula on her lap. I heard Teresa say,
"My treasure, don't cry any more! Don't afflict poor Teresa who loves you
so, and who loved your mother before you. Now, come, come, my angel, that
will do. You will make yourself sick. See, here comes Lisita also to
comfort you."

But Paula continued crying, inconsolable, as she hid her face on the ample
shoulder of our old servant I came quite near her and stroked her hair, but
I could not utter a word.

"Papa! papa," she called, time after time.

"Your father's in heaven," answered Teresa, taking her tenderly in her
arms. "What would he think if he saw his little girl in such a state?"

"Oh, I only wish father had taken me with him! If I could only see him now!
You see, I promised him to read my Bible and now I cannot, for my uncle has
carried away the only one I had--that wonderful Book that told me of God,
and where my father had marked so many beautiful passages! Oh, papa, papa,
do come! Your daughter needs you now!"

Teresa, finally seeing that it was useless to try to comfort her, limited
herself to drying the floods of tears that still continued to flow. But
finally, thoroughly exhausted, Paula at last became calm and listened
tranquilly to Teresa's long story which we already knew so well, regarding
the death of our mother and Catalina's terrible fall. And following this,
she showed her that on account of these great misfortunes, instead of
leading our father to seek the Lord, it seemed on the contrary to have
hardened his heart. Thus he had become rebellious, and had made it an
established rule in our home that not a word should be uttered relative to
the Supreme Being. Then she added, "But don't you believe that he does not
care for you! If you could know how many times he has said that you should
lack nothing and should be treated as one of his own daughters."

"That is certainly true," said Rosa, who had entered during Teresa's
narrative. "Father appears severe, and this morning, of course, he became
very angry, but he is very good-hearted after all."

"I did not know, I did not know," said Paula, as she bowed her head; "how
my poor uncle must have suffered!"

"Besides," continued Teresa, "who can tell but what your uncle will begin
to read your little--what is it you call it?--the Bible?"

"Do you think so? Oh, Teresa! Do you think he will read it himself?"

"Certainly I do, and why not? And when he has read it and found that it is
a good book, I'm sure he will return it to you. So now, just calm yourself
and don't worry any more."

"But," questioned Paula, "do you mean to tell me that my uncle hasn't got a
Bible himself?"

"Yes, he had one once, but I imagine that he must have lost it, for it's
many years since I have seen the one that he had."

"Oh," exclaimed Paula, "what a wonderful thing if my uncle should read my
Bible. For I am sure that he will come to believe in God as my father did,
and then he will let me have my precious Book back again. My father, too,
passed through great affliction. My mother also died, and then my two
sisters, all three in the same year. Father told me that by thus passing
through the fire he had learned not to fix his eyes on the things of this
world, but to find his happiness in God. I don't know how to explain it
very well, of course; but I did understand it fairly well when my father
told me and showed me some of the precious passages in the Book that helped
me to understand."

"I think I also understand," murmured Teresa, drying her own eyes on the
back of her sleeve, as she turned to Rosa. "Rosa, you claim to be very
wise. Tell me, where can one buy a Bible?" Rosa smiled, and said, "I'm not
very sure, but I think in one of the book-shops one could find a Bible. I
could find out in school tomorrow. I know one of my schoolmates has one."

"Good," exclaimed Teresa, "you must find out tomorrow morning. I've got an
idea, Paula, a wonderful idea, so dry your tears. I must go tomorrow
afternoon to the city, and if Rosa can find out tomorrow morning where a
Bible can be found, we shall all four of us go and buy a new Bible there,
and you can read it in your room and your uncle will never know."

"Oh, Teresa," cried Paula in a burst of gratitude, "what a good woman you
are!"

"That's something I've never yet found out," said the old servant with a
dry smile.

Then suddenly we all saw that something had begun to trouble Paula. "What's
the matter now?" said Rosa. "Are you not content to get a new Bible?"

"Oh, yes," said Paula, "but under such circumstances that would deceive my
uncle."

It was here that Teresa broke in. "No, no," she said, "you don't
understand. I'm going to buy this Bible with my own money, and I can do as
I please. If I care to buy a Bible, it's no one else's business."

But there was trouble in Paula's eyes as she said, "I would certainly like
to have a Bible, but uncle has forbidden me to read it. I can see from what
you say that it would be easy for you to buy another and read it
yourselves, but my uncle has prohibited me and that settles it. I simply
can't be a hypocrite and deceive him. Dear Teresa, I do certainly thank you
from the bottom of my heart, but, you see, you had forgotten what uncle
said. Now, listen, the Lord Jesus is going to help me! There are many
beautiful passages of the Bible that I know by heart, and there are plenty
of the Bible stories that I'll never forget. All these I will keep in my
memory, and then besides I shall pray every day for my uncle, that he'll
soon return my precious Bible to me, and give me permission to read it. I
know the Lord will hear me, if I obey Him and pray with faith. Dear Teresa,
I hope you're not going to be provoked with me."

"And why should I be, my precious treasure?"

"Well, just because I didn't want you to buy me a Bible."

"No, no, dear, no; you certainly are right, and a whole lot better than we
are." And we, together with our old servant, could not help admiring the
honesty of our sturdy country cousin.

"Teresa!" It was Paula who broke the silence that followed the above
discussion.

"What now, Paula?"

"Will you pray for me?"

"I," said the astonished Teresa.

"Yes, please, Teresa dear."

"My poor little Paula, I never pray for myself, so how could I pray for
you?"

Poor Paula seemed at a loss. "Well, you see," she said, hesitatingly in a
trembling voice, "I'm afraid to do it. You see, I don't dare to forget
God."

And so our good Teresa, in order to satisfy the poor child, promised to
pray for her that very night.

"No," insisted Paula, "let's pray now."

Our poor servant looked around her in dismay.

"I--! I pray here! In front of you and Lisita and Rosa! Never--! Besides, I
wouldn't know what to say."

"Do you mean to say that you don't know, 'Our Father which art in heaven?'"

"Perhaps, but it's some time since I've repeated that prayer. I remember my
poor mother. I used to kneel beside her and repeat it when I was your age.
Once in a while since then, I have said my 'paternoster.' But it's been
many years since it's passed my lips, and I haven't even thought of it for
ages. No, no; it's useless. No, Paula, you pray for us. We certainly need
it, but as for me praying--a poor sinner like me--I tell you it's useless."

But Paula was not easily discouraged.

"Teresa," and Paula put her cheek against the wrinkled one of our old
servant, "you know that Jesus died for us, and do you mean to say,
notwithstanding that, you are living like a heathen."

"What's that you say? Like a heathen?" cried poor Teresa.

"Yes, Teresa dear, like a heathen. My father used to read me missionary
stories on Sunday, and in these stories I always noticed that the heathen
people live without praying to God, and that they didn't read the Bible,
and that they didn't know how to sing any hymns, and they had no church to
go to, that is, until the missionaries came. But we are different here in
this house from the heathen because they had never heard of God." And then
she added with one of those lovely smiles that always seemed to spread a
halo over her, "All the heathen in the pictures that I saw had black skins,
whereas you, Teresa, have such a lovely white face."

Poor Teresa, placed her well-worn hands over her wrinkled countenance, and
said, "Paula, Paula, you certainly are right. So we are even less worthy of
God's mercy than they are."

Paula looked at her for a moment in silence and then, kneeling down beside
her, said, "Teresa, you just pray with me, won't you? I know the Lord Jesus
will pardon you, and He'll help you to love Him for He has promised to give
you a new heart. I'm only a little girl, but He helps me and He hears me
when I pray, for that's what He has promised, Teresa. Once my father taught
me a beautiful verse, and when my uncle returns my Bible, I'll show it to
you, but this is what it says, 'Him that cometh unto Me, I will in no wise
cast out.'"

Poor Teresa, with her head hidden in her hands, could not reply.

"Do come and kneel with me," insisted Paula, pulling her by her apron.
After a long silence suddenly Teresa fell heavily on her knees beside the
bed. Paula up to this moment appeared to have forgotten the rest of us, but
now taking both of us by the hand she invited us to kneel also.

"No," said Rosa, with an offended air, "I'll do no such thing."

"Nor will I." I said, a bit intimidated by my sister's refusal.

And so Teresa and Paula kneeled together, "'Our Father which art in
Heaven,'" commenced the clear voice of Paula. Slowly came the repetition,
'Our Father which art in Heaven,' and poor Teresa's deep voice trembled
with emotion.

"'Hallowed be Thy name'"

"'Hallowed be Thy name.'"

And now Teresa, gathering fresh courage, as the words of the great prayer
began to return to her memory, the voices now mingled in the same majestic
words from, oh, such different hearts--the one, pure and confiding, and the
other now contrite and penitent.

Then, as they finished, Paula continued, "Lord Jesus, be pleased to bless
my uncle, Teresa, Catalina, Rosa, Lisita and Louis. Oh, bless them, Lord,
and help them all to come to Thee. And bless me, also, and give me of Thy
goodness, for Thy name's sake, Amen."

"So may it be," sighed poor Teresa.

Paula opened her eyes, but closed them again as she saw that Teresa had not
moved, and that she was struggling to add a prayer of her own. Then finally
it came.

"Oh, my God, my God," murmured poor Teresa. "If you can have pity on a poor
sinful woman like me, that has forgotten Thee for so many years, be pleased
to pardon me, and change my poor wicked heart, in the name of Thy Son,
Jesus Christ, Amen."

       *       *       *       *       *

For a good while after that, Teresa made no allusion whatever to what had
transpired in our little bedroom on that first Sunday after Paula's
arrival; but we noticed a great change in her conduct She did not work
harder--that would have been impossible--neither was she more unselfish,
for a more unselfish person than our dear old servant would have been hard
to find. But the thing we began to notice was that she was more patient and
tender in her dealings with us children, and more charitable toward the
great number of our poor neighbors, who would come to the door from time to
time to "borrow" food--these poor, miserable neighbors whom she had
despised on account of their laziness and untidiness. Beside all this, we
saw no more of her days of bad humor and fretfulness. For instance, she
treated our father with much more respect and listened without argument or
impatience when, at times, he was unjust in his criticism of the house
arrangements. Then we noticed also that all her little lies with which she
tried to frighten us at times had completely disappeared.

In the cottages of our poor neighbors, there had existed an atmosphere of
discouragement and desperation, brought on of course, through poverty and
drink, and it was here that our good Teresa began to be known as a
veritable friend. As she passed from door to door giving a word of
encouragement here, or taking the burden temporarily from the shoulders of
a poor tired mother there, we began to notice the under-current of a happy
change in the atmosphere of these poor and destitute ones around us. It was
easy to imagine that Teresa might be the cause of the change.

       *       *       *       *       *

The day following the above-mentioned Sunday, Rosa was sitting by the
bedside of Catalina who complained of her usual headache, and Teresa had
gone out on an errand.

Paula, a bit exhausted with her emotions of the day before, appeared to
have lost all animation, but soon her naturally happy nature asserted
itself, and by the time my father returned from his work, she ran to meet
him and opened the door as he entered, embracing him as if nothing had
happened.

"Well, well," said my father, "I'm glad to see that you have recovered your
good humor, Paula." A frank smile passed over Paula's face, but she said
nothing. "And how has Catalina been today?" he said, turning to me.

"She has a terrible headache. Teresa is afraid she's going to be sick
again."

"Poor girl! We must be especially careful then not to make any noise," and
he turned to go into Catalina's room, but Paula detained him.

"Please, uncle, have you pardoned me?"

"What for, child?"

"For what occurred yesterday. Surely you remember, uncle. I was a bit
stubborn about giving up my Bible."

My father looked down at her, surprised. "And now, you're perfectly willing
that I keep it?"

"Oh, yes, of course, for I did not at all understand. Teresa tells me that
you had no Bible, and you see I didn't know that. And she said that after
you had read it, you would of course be giving it back to me. I am so sorry
that I appeared so selfish. Please, pardon me, won't you, uncle dear?"

"I've already pardoned you, so don't worry about that. So you like to read
your Bible?"

"Oh, yes; indeed I do, uncle."

"Well, perhaps some day I'll return it to you."

It was not exactly a promise, but Paula was willing to content herself with
that much.

"Oh, thank you, thank you so much, uncle," said Paula as she embraced him.

"And so you love me a little, do you? In spite of everything?" asked my
father smiling, as he took hold of her chin and turned her face up toward
his.

"Oh, yes, indeed; you don't know how much!"

"You do?" said my father. "Well, that certainly gives me great pleasure. I
see that soon we shall come to understand one another, you and I. By the
way, I noticed that in your Bible there were quite a number of dry flowers.
If you would like them, I will return them to you immediately."

"Oh, many thanks, uncle. I kept them there as remembrances of my father. I
shall keep them in some book where I can look at them often--often!"

"That's what I thought, my little daughter. I'll go and get your Bible, and
you yourself shall take them out."

But now Paula seemed to have a different idea. "No, I think that I prefer
that they remain where they are," she said in an altered voice.

"What's that you say?" exclaimed my father, astonished. "How is it that you
have so suddenly changed your mind?"

"Well, you see," explained Paula, trembling a bit, "they'd better remain
where they are, for I love my Bible, and I've read it every day, and now if
I saw it again, I'm afraid--I'm afraid--" and poor Paula's lip was
trembling.

"I understand, I understand," said my father.

But on turning to go into Catalina's room, he hesitated with his hand on
the latch of the door, and turning, he looked searchingly at Paula, as if
he would know the secret of the innermost heart of this child, so loving,
so angelic, and yet so absolutely natural.



CHAPTER SEVEN

CATALINA'S ILLNESS

Teresa had not been mistaken. Catalina became so critically ill during the
following week, that my father lost all hope of her recovery. Not being
able to be with her during the day, he watched at her bedside during the
greater part of the night, and if it had not been for Teresa, who compelled
him to go and take some rest, he would have, undoubtedly, suffered a
collapse himself. How long those days appeared to be in spite of the happy
companionship that I had found with my dear cousin Paula! My father hardly
noticed us, absorbed as he was with the fear that filled his heart, and
Teresa was occupied with so many tasks that she had no time for us either.

Rosa had to leave school in order to help nurse the sick one, and Paula
also was required to stay home until the afternoon session. As for me, I
was packed off to school in the morning, carrying my lunch in a little
basket, fearing each night as I came back to the house that I would receive
bad news as to Catalina. My! What grand resolutions for the future I made
during those sad days--to try to love my poor sick sister, and to treat her
better than I had done, should she recover.

One afternoon, I was surprised to find my father at home. It was only about
five o'clock and he generally did not return from work until eight. He
seemed so sad and depressed that I dared not embrace him as was our custom.
Teresa crossed the dining-room and gave me her usual warning. "Don't make
any noise, Lisita. Go and sit down and be quiet"

"Teresa," said my father in a low voice, "do you think Catalina would be
able to see the children?"'

"Why do you ask that, sir?" she said.

"I would like them to see her that she may embrace them for the last time.
You know what the doctor said."

"Oh, those doctors!" said Teresa in a scornful tone. "The doctors don't
know what they're talking about. Don't lose hope, sir. I know that Catalina
may not live to be very old, but if God wills her to live, she will do so
in spite of the doctors."

"Yes, but you know how weak she is. She never will be able to survive so
many complications. And yet, how can I bear such affliction? She reminds me
so much of her mother, the same voice, the same blue eyes, and even her
identical way of smiling. And now to follow this child to the cemetery and
return to the house where she will never be any more. Oh, what shall I do!
What shall I do!"

"Why don't you consult the Great Physician, sir?"

"What do you mean by 'the Great Physician?'"

"I mean the Lord Jesus. Deliver Catalina into His hands. When He walked
this earth, all the sick ones were brought to Him and He healed them all."

"But He's no longer on the earth."

"No; but His power is the same today as it was then."

"Teresa, do you pray nowadays?"

"Yes, sir, I do."

"When did you begin to pray?"

"From the time that Paula entered the house, sir."

"I suspected that."

"Now, please don't go and rebuke her, sir. If you only knew how she loves
you, and how she prays for you and Catalina. Oh, sir, how many times she
has made me blush for shame."

"How so, my good Teresa?"

"That's a fact, sir. I used to think to myself, 'You're a pretty good
woman, you have suffered much in your life, you work hard, you don't do any
harm to anybody, surely you will go to heaven.' But when I saw Paula and
the reality of her religion, and how she loved God, oh, then, sir, I
comprehended for the first time in my life that I was a sinner worthy of
hell, and I prayed to God that He would pardon me."

"And--did He do it?"

"The Saviour assures us, sir, that 'He that cometh to Him, He will in no
wise cast out.' So I dare to believe that He has pardoned me" Teresa was
pale with emotion. It was the first time that she had confessed the Lord
before men, and it cost her a good deal to do so to my father. He was
apparently too depressed to be angry. After a moment of silence he said,
"Where is Paula?"

"I sent her to the drug store, sir, to get certain medicines that the
doctor ordered."

"When she returns, send her to Catalina's room. I shall remain there until,
until--" My poor father could not conclude the sentence.

Then turning to me, "When Paula returns I wish you to come in to Catalina's
room also, Lisita."

"Yes, father," I answered him in a low voice.

A quarter of an hour later Paula returned. Never shall I forget the anguish
and terror that I experienced when Teresa, warning us to be quiet, led the
way to the bedside of my dying sister.

Catalina did not appear to notice our entrance. Her eyes were closed, and
her face so pale that I believed her already dead, but my father made signs
to us to draw a little nearer and putting his hand over the forehead of my
poor sister, he called to her gently, in a voice that betrayed great
anguish.

"Catalina, Lisita and Paula have come to visit you. Would you not like to
embrace them?"

"Lisita ... Paula ..." I heard Catalina murmur in a far-away voice. "Ah,
yes, I remember. Help me up, father." My father lifted the poor thin body
of his daughter. In spite of all I could do, I could not keep from crying,
thinking that it would be the last time that I would embrace my big sister,
whom I had loved so little. She looked at us for a long while, and then
said calmly, "Have you two come to say good-bye to me?"

"No, no," said my father; "we hope that ..."

"No, father, I'm dying. I know that well. It is useless to keep it from me.
Think of it, only eighteen years old, and yet I've been of no use to
anybody, and nobody's going to miss me very much."

"Catalina," exclaimed my father, "do not speak so. You hurt me talking that
way, and you make Lisita and Paula cry."

"Are you really crying, Lisita?" And Catalina turned her feverish eyes
toward me. "How strange! I have not been a very good sister to you, and I
always thought you didn't care for me."

"Oh, Catalina," I exclaimed, kneeling beside the bed, "please don't die. I
do love you so. I promise to come and care for you every day and I'll never
make another noise while you are sick. I will be always good to you,
indeed--even when you're bad-humored. Please don't die." And then I sobbed
with such violence that my father, fearing that such conduct would cut even
shorter that parting life upon the bed, asked Teresa to take me away.

But Catalina said, "Let her alone, father. It really does me good to see
her cry. I never dreamed that Lisita had any heart at all. But I see now
that it has been all my fault. If I had only been a bit better-tempered
with her, she would have shown me a little more affection. Rosa, give me a
little water, please." And Rosa placed a teaspoonful of water between the
lips of our poor sister.

"Are you quite bad, my daughter?" asked my father.

For some minutes, Catalina could not reply, but finally she said, "Lisita,
don't cry any more, please. Now, listen."

I tried to calm myself.

"We need to ask each other's pardon, my poor little sister," she said.

"Now kiss me. Tell me that you forgive me."

"Oh, yes, indeed, I do forgive you," I answered, "from the bottom of my
heart. It is I who have been wicked, whereas you have been so very, very
sick, while I enjoy such good health."

"Yes, that's true," said Catalina, "but I'm older, and I should have shown
you a better example. I had always thought of myself and now--it's too late
to change! Come, dear Lisita, come and kiss me once more."

I could have wished to have stayed there on my knees for hours and hide my
head with shame and tears, but I didn't dare refuse to show this last sign
of affection for Catalina. So I laid my hot cheek against that of my
sister, toying to bid her good-bye, and her tears mingled with mine.

When Paula's turn came, Catalina was so exhausted that she could hardly say
a word. But finally, she said, "You will take my place at father's side,
Paula. Father, I'm dying. Paula will take my place, and I know she will be
a better daughter that I could have ever been."

Her strength was going rapidly and we could hardly hear her words. And now
my father softly put her back on the pillows and motioned us to retire.

Exhausted by remorse and grief, I threw myself on my bed and continued
crying until at last I fell into a heavy sleep.

       *       *       *       *       *

During the week that followed, Catalina hovered between life and death and
good old Dr. Lebon came and went two or three times a day. Teresa never
went to bed, but took short cat-naps in her chair at times, as best she
could, and my father made very rare and short visits to his office,
bringing a good part of his work home with him.

Rosa now replaced Teresa, either in the kitchen or at the bedside of the
invalid, as the case might be. And I continued at school where, thanks to
the fears that filled my heart, I was a model of good conduct.

Paula had quickly learned to make herself useful. She lacked experience in
a house like ours, but her willingness and cheerfulness more than made up
for the clumsiness of her hands as she would say to Teresa, "Let me do
that, dear Teresa; you are so tired, and you have so much work now."
Teresa, accustomed as she was to perform everything herself, hesitated a
little at first; but Paula would look at her in such a beseeching way that
she generally yielded to her.

From the time that Catalina fell ill, Rosa had to make all the purchases in
town, and this was not a small thing, for the distance from the old Convent
to the city was considerable. At times Paula was allowed to go with her.
"Why don't you let me go alone to the city?" Paula said to her. "If you did
not have to go out, you could help Teresa so much more in caring for
Catalina."

"That's true; but you couldn't go alone to the city. You'd get lost!"

"No, no, never fear such a thing. Let me go, and I'll have not a bit of
trouble finding my way back." And Rosa, like Teresa, at last yielded to her
pleading.

"How is Catalina now?" was my first question on returning from school.

"Always the same," Paula would say.

"Do you think, Paula, she'll ever get well?"

"That I don't know, Lisita. But I believe she will. Teresa prays for her,
and so do I. God is able to heal all the sick people. You know that; don't
you, Lisita?"

And then, as she thought of the dear sick one that the Lord had not healed,
whose body was lying in the faraway Waldensian valley she added, "I know
the Lord did not heal my father, but then, you know, he was _prepared_ to
go."

"What do you mean 'prepared'?" I said, a bit puzzled.

"Oh, I mean to say that my father had given his heart to the Lord Jesus,
and so he was _ready_ to go to heaven."

"I suppose it is very difficult to prepare one's self for heaven," I said
guardedly.

"Oh, no," said Paula. "If we ask the Lord Jesus to give us a new heart, He
always does so."

"What do you think," I said, "has Catalina received a new heart?"

"I don't know," and Paula hesitated, "but I don't think so. She torments
herself so, and seems so afraid to die."

"Oh, Paula, how I wish she would get well! Before she became so ill, I
didn't care for her a bit, and I believe she didn't care for me either. But
after having said good-bye to her that afternoon, I certainly do love her.
Poor Catalina! In the middle of the school session, many times it comes to
me, 'Suppose that Catalina should die today!' Then I do not seem to be able
to pay any more attention to the lessons. It seems as if Catalina was
there, dead in her bed, and I hardly dare to come home. If I had not been
so wicked to her before she became so ill, I know I would not feel so."

"Now listen, Lisita! This is what you ought to do. You ought to ask the
Lord Jesus to heal Catalina."

"He'd never do it for me," I said.

"And why not?" asked Paula.

"Because I'm sure God doesn't hear the prayers of wicked people."

For a while Paula did not answer me. I saw that she was thinking about what
I had just said. Suddenly, a ray of happiness illumined the dear face with
its great dark eyes, as-she exclaimed, "Yes, He does hear wicked people."

"How do you know that?" I said.

"Because when Jesus Christ hung on the cross, one of the robbers asked Him
to remember him when He came into His kingdom, and the Lord promised to do
so."

"Well, then," I murmured, "perhaps the Lord might hear me also."

Paula turned about and faced me. "But, my dear Lisita, you're not wicked."

"Most certainly I am," said I.

"No, no, you're not that bad, and if you wish to be my sister, you will
love the Lord Jesus, and you love Him now with all your heart; do you not,
Lisita! I don't like to hear you say that you're wicked, for you are a good
girl, and I love you dearly, Lisita!"

I? I? Good! I stared at my cousin. At any rate I knew that that very night,
for the first time in my life, I was going to pray to the good Lord before
I slept. Teresa had come in to say good-night and put out the light. I
hadn't the courage to get up and kneel beside the bed as Paula did, but I
joined my hands in prayer and closed my eyes as she had done, and with my
head buried in the pillow, I murmured, "Oh, my God, I've never asked
anything of You, and I wouldn't have dared to have said a word to You
tonight if Paula had not said that You heard the prayers even of wicked
penitent ones like me. My God, I ask You to heal my sister Catalina, and I
ask it with all my heart I haven't been very good to her, and I'm very
sorry, and I'm going to be better from now on. My God, please let her live,
and if she gets well, I promise You now to do all my lessons faithfully for
a whole week. And so I thank you ahead of time, Amen."

       *       *       *       *       *

Two days later Catalina was out of danger! It was my father who told me the
good news on my return from school. "Oh, how happy, how happy I am,
father!" I cried as I danced for joy.

"No more than I am, my daughter," he answered gravely.



CHAPTER EIGHT

THE FIVE-FRANC PIECE

Catalina recovered slowly and seemed to constantly desire Paula's company.
In the afternoon, on returning from school, I would find her by the
bedside, always happy, always smiling, with the complete forgetfulness of
self that had always been such a wonder to me.

A new gentleness seemed to come over my father as the days passed, and I
noticed that he always seemed to observe Paula with a sort of puzzled air.

Paula, too, seemed to change. That little Alpine flower, accustomed to the
pure mountain air of her beloved country, naturally could not be
transplanted from her native soil without some damage, and besides, that
sensitive conscience of hers always seemed to be in a struggle between
obedience to her God and her duty towards my father.

"That girl is nothing more or less than stubborn," I heard my father say
one day to Teresa; which remark our old servant answered with a grimace
behind his back.

One day, Teresa with an air of triumph, showed us a New Testament on her
return from town. Paula took it from her hand for a moment, and then
returned it to our old servant after caressing the shining cover with great
tenderness.

"Take it," said Teresa, "it's not only mine, but yours, and you will have
more time to read it than I will."

"No, Teresa dear," and Paula sighed as she put her hands behind her back.
"I know I'll get my Bible some day. That's what I've asked God for, and I
know He answers prayer."

A little later, Paula said to me, "I certainly would have loved that New
Testament, for there are two or three favorite passages with which I would
like to refresh my memory, but I simply can't deceive my uncle. But what am
I going to do, Lisita? I must never forget what I promised papa when he
died." (Never forget, never forget! was Paula's constant preoccupation.)

But in spite of these problems which seemed to confront her, her perfect
faith in God came to her aid, and seemed to give her wisdom to take the
right road through it all. At times I would surprise her on her knees with
her eyes closed and a certain strange indefinable light on her tear-stained
face. Immediately however as she sensed my presence, she would spring to
her feet and I found the same natural happy creature that I delighted to
call my companion. It was not in vain that she prayed! Her God, whom she
had not ceased to serve in the midst of the worldly atmosphere that
surrounded her, seemed to come to comfort and strengthen her.

Away off here in Villar, the little orphan was not forgotten. One day, to
her great excitement, Paula received a letter, directed personally to her,
from someone from her own beloved land.

"What beautiful writing!" exclaimed Rosa. "Who could it be from?"

"I think it must be from my god-mother," responded Paula, trembling with
emotion. "Oh, do give me the letter, Rosa."

Rosa, always full of fun, pretended to keep the letter, to the dismay of
our small cousin, who didn't always see through our jokes, but finally
yielded to her entreaties.

"Wouldn't you like to read it to us, Rosa?" asked Paula, tearing open the
envelope. "I find it much harder to read writing than printing."

Rosa was only too glad to learn the secrets contained in such an unusual
communication. And so this is what we heard as she read:

"My dear god-daughter: I cannot tell you how dismayed I was on my return
from Geneva to learn of the death of thy father. I know he is at peace in
heaven, happy at the side of the Lord he so dearly loved. But it is for
thee that my heart was torn with anguish. Canst thou imagine the pain that
filled it when I found on my return to Villar, that both of you had gone
from me?

"The Pastor in the village told me that thou hadst gone to your uncle's
house in Normandy, and that thou wert well-cared for. But oh, how I would
have wished to have kept thee with me. But thou knowest, that for me, that
would have been impossible, having to care for my old father and mother, as
well as pay off their debts. I know, however, with the help of God, some
day I shall be free. Then we shall return to buy the little farm where my
father made us such a happy home, and at that time I trust that thou wilt
come back and live with me--but then, I suppose thou wilt have become a
great lady, and wilt not be content to come back to such a simple life with
an obscure country woman (although I really don't believe that)."

"Oh, no, no, no!" suddenly interrupted Paula. "Godmother knows very well
that I shall never forget the happy life in Villar."

"Then, you will go back there?" inquired Rosa.

"Of course. Why not?" and Paula looked quite surprised.

"What's that you say? You would leave all of us who love you so?"

"Oh, no indeed, you shall all come with me," responded Paula, who generally
had a way of solving every difficulty.

Rosa smiled and returned to her reading.

"I have just been to see the grave of thy dear father where I planted some
hardy white roses which will stand the winter winds. I went also to the
neighboring village of Endroit where thou usedst to visit the poor, and
immediately I was surrounded by thy friends. Papa Pierre Vigne especially
sends his love. They all spoke of thee and called down blessings on thy
head, especially that thou mightst be a witness for the Lord in thy new
home. Mama Vigne recalled the time when thou visitedst her when she was so
sick, and how happy thou madest her when thou didst sing those beautiful
hymns to her. I believe, my dear one, that if thou shouldst write her a few
lines, it would be like letting in a little heaven on her simple life, as
she would thus see that the daughter of their best friend is thinking still
of those whom she used to make happy by her heavenly presence. All those
that have known thee and know that I am writing send kisses and loving
remembrances. Many persons have asked that thou shouldst pray for them.
They love thee so and miss thy presence, my dear, dear god-daughter!
Continue, Paula, always to be obedient. Love everybody, and above all else,
the God of thy father who awaits thee in heaven. Love not the world nor the
things that are in the world. Be thou a valiant soldier, faithful unto
death, and Christ shall give thee the crown of life, for He will never
forget thee, and neither do we in this far-off valley, nor thy good deeds
which thou hast done amongst us. And now, may God bless thee and keep thee
safe in His hands.... Thy loving godmother, Evangelina, who prays for
thee."

Paula, overcome by emotion, buried her face on Rosa's shoulder.

"Wait a minute," said Rosa, "don't cry. Here is something more."

Paula dried her eyes and listened intently as Rosa continued, "P. S. I am
sending thee five francs by money order which you can redeem at your post
office. Buy something with it by which to remember me."

"Five francs!" repeated Paula, with astonishment now instead of tears on
her face, "Are you sure?"

"Of course. See. Here is the money order."

Paula, who never in her life had owned a single cent, could hardly believe
that she was the possessor of so much riches!

Her godmother's letter was, of course, a tremendous event for all of us.
Rosa had to read it over and over many times, and it seemed as if Paula
wished to learn it by heart. Even my father read it with great attention
and appeared quite pleased. Teresa declared that "The god-mother was surely
a 'trs comme il faut,'" but she did not explain to us why.

One thing however displeased Teresa--the eagerness with which Paula
immediately planned to spend all her money.

"How now!" she exclaimed, "Is it burning a hole in your pocket? I should
think a little girl like you would prefer to keep the money."

"Keep it?" said Paula. "Why should I keep it?"

But the next day, when Teresa announced that she was going to the city, she
invited us both to come along. "What are _you_ going to buy?" she asked
Paula.

"Oh, so many things. You shall see!"

And the "things" which we "saw" were certainly a great surprise to us.
First we went to the book-shop where a number of souvenir cards were
purchased to send back to Villar. From there, on passing a window filled
with fruit, Paula exclaimed, "Oh, my, Catalina certainly does love grapes.
I must get her some."

"Grapes!" said Teresa. "Look at the price, you silly child."

"Never mind. I'm rich this afternoon."

"Well, you won't be rich long, if you make many purchases like that!"

But Paula would not be satisfied until a great bunch of the luscious fruit
was safely stowed away in Teresa's bag, destined for Catalina. Having
arrived in front of a stationer's shop, two pencils went into the bag, one
for Rosa and the other for Louis.

"And aren't you going to get anything for yourself?" said Teresa, with a
quizzical grin.

"Oh, you shall see," laughed Paula. "Besides, you know, Teresa, I've got
everything I need, and a good deal more."

But now a present for my father was the next object for discussion. "Men
don't need presents," said Teresa impatiently.

But Paula did not agree with her. "I know," she cried at last, "I remember
what he said yesterday that his coffee cup was too small. Let's get him a
big one." So off to the china-shop we went, where a huge blue cup decorated
with flowers of extraordinary size depleted Paula's treasure by a whole
franc. I began to ask myself whether I was going to have any part in
Paula's generosity. But on passing a certain bazaar where a myriad of
things were sold, I saw Paula make signs that Teresa seemed to understand.
Contrary to her custom Teresa entered alone, telling us to walk on a bit
and she would join us soon.

"And now," said Paula, "we must buy an apron for Teresa, while she's not
looking. Where shall we go?"

"I think it would be better to let her choose one, and anyway, Teresa will
soon be out of the bazaar and will be looking for us."

"Oh, my, no! This has got to be a surprise!"

"Yes, I know. But how are we going to work it?"

A moment later, however, Paula discovered a way, a bit risky perhaps, but
the circumstances seemed to justify the means.

Teresa, suspecting that Paula's generosity would extend to her, and wishing
to avoid that, watched us both carefully; but when all the purchases
appeared to be completed, the good woman occupied herself with buying
provisions for the house, which of course entailed considerable discussion
as to price, etc. It was then that Paula had her chance.

"Now's our time," she said to me in a low voice.

I followed her without delay. Teresa, meanwhile, argued the price of butter
and cheese with an old school-friend, now elevated to proprietorship of the
shop, and we knew that this would take at least a quarter-of-an-hour. We
soon arrived at a place where they sold novelties, and where the clerks
were about ready to close for the night.

"Oh, sir," cried Paula, to one of the young men, "will you not please
attend to me? I'm in a great hurry."

"So, you're in a hurry," said the young man jovially.

"Yes, you see, we've run away and we've--"

"Wait a minute," said the young man, and he appeared to grow suddenly grave
"This is quite serious. Who have you run away from?"

"Oh, it's only Teresa across the street, and this must be a surprise for
her. Will you please show me an apron?"

So the young man, without further ado, hauled down a number of those
articles for inspection. "There you are. Take your pick."

Paula gave one look, "Oh, no; not that kind," she said with a consternation
which I shared, seeing in imagination old Teresa with her great wooden
shoes and her long skirts adorned with one of these elegant articles of the
latest fashion.

"No? Don't you like these?" questioned the clerk.

"Oh, no," said Paula. "You see, it's for Teresa."

"And, pray, who is Teresa?"

Paula started to explain, when the anxious face of the old servant showed
itself at the door of the shop across the way, and not seeing us, had
started to look up and down the street "Here she comes," I said. "Oh,
Paula, what shall we do?"

"Go in behind the counter, there," said Paula who never lost her head.

I got in behind a pile of merchandise while Paula continued to explain her
wants to the clerk from the dark corner of the shop. The youug man appeared
to comprehend our situation.

"Bertrand," and he turned to one of his fellow-clerks, "please attend to
this young girl. I'll be back in a minute."

But "Bertrand" hardly had time to ask us what we wanted, when our first
friend returned, bringing with him a package under his arm.

"I had a look at your Teresa," he said, "and I think that an apron of this
excellent cloth will give her a thousand thrills. See, what beautiful stuff
it is."

Paula gave a nervous look toward the window before answering.

"No, she's not there," said the young man, divining her thoughts. "Not
finding you here, she's gone on a bit, but you can find her easily enough."

We were enchanted with the goods which he displayed, and we were soon
served, at not too great a cost.

"You have been very good to us, sir," said Paula, starting to go out. "We
have given you so much trouble, but when we wish to buy anything more, we
shall always come here, will we not, Lisita? In the meantime, many thanks,"
and she extended her hand to him with surprising self-possession.

"The pleasure is all mine," said the young man, and I could see that he'd
never met her like before.

Teresa was not far away, gazing into a jeweler's window. "At last, you're
here," she said amiably. "Now, we must hurry, for it is very late." She
made no mention of our untoward absence and one would have believed that
she had not noticed it, and that relieved us very much.

"You certainly are late," said my father to Teresa on our return.

"I thought we'd never get through," said the good woman. "For you see,
Paula had to spend--"

"Oh, yes, I understand. She had to get rid of her five francs.

"And now, Paula, show me what you have bought."

"All right. Here you are, uncle!"

Paula had always shown a certain timidity toward my father, and appeared to
be slightly afraid of him. Slightly red in the face, she took out the
packages one after the other from Teresa's bag.

"You shall see, sir. You shall see," commented Teresa, with a shake of her
head.

"What a lot of packages!" said Rosa, on seeing all the bundles tied up with
such care.

"Shall I help you open them?" said my father. "Let us see what's in this
first package. My, my, what's this? White grapes! And of the finest kind!
You certainly have got good taste. I'll say that much, Paula!"

"They are for Catalina, uncle."

"For Catalina?"

"Yes, uncle dear."

Now there was not a sign of derision in my father's voice. It had changed
to a surprising tenderness as he said, "So you bought this for our
Catalina? I know the cost of such fruit, and Teresa should not have
consented."

"And do you think, sir," broke in Teresa, "that when Paula wants to buy
something, that she asks for my consent? You will soon be able to judge
that for yourself. I never saw her equal."

"And this?" questioned Rosa, taking up the package of souvenir cards.

Paula indicated the destination of each one as she gave the name and
address of many of her old neighbors in far-away Villar.

"So you don't forget your old friends," observed my father.

"Oh, what a beautiful box this is," continued Rosa, "and, oh, look here,"
as she displayed the thimble inside. "Who can this be for?"

"Oh, that's for Lisita."

"For me," I cried, jubilantly, "oh, Paula! So you remembered that I have
just lost my thimble."

"Two pencils," announced my father, undoing another small paper package.

"One of them is for Rosa and the other is for Louis," said Paula simply.

"My poor dear child," exclaimed Rosa. "What on earth are we going to do
with you! Here's another package, but it appears so fragile that you'd
better open it yourself."

"No, no; that's for uncle. Let him open it."

My father cut the cord that held the package. Paula hardly dared to raise
her eyes, as he took the beautiful cup with its blue and gold ornamentation
and took it over to the fading light, in order to examine it more
carefully.

"I don't know whether I should be angry or content," he said, with a dry
smile.

"Better be content, uncle," said Paula appealingly.

"Well, so be it," he said. "At any rate, I am happy to have such a good and
generous niece, who does love her uncle a bit. Is it not so, Paula?"

"There's one more thing," I cried. I wanted to see the effect on Teresa of
that final package, which Paula handed over immediately to the old servant,
saying gently, "It's for you, Teresa dear."

"What's this? How is it for me? When I strictly forbade you? But there you
are! What can one do with such a girl?"

The apron was found to be eminently satisfactory, and Teresa promised to
put it on the first thing in the morning, and I could see a few tears in
her eyes as she said so.

"And now," said my father, "you've shown us all these things which you have
bought us with your five francs. Where is the present for yourself?"

Paula looked at us all with dismay.

"I declare," she said, "I forgot! Never mind, I can buy something
tomorrow." And she held up a few small coins which was all that remained of
her five-franc-piece.

My father looked at her searchingly, with that new tenderness which I had
seen frequently lately, and then left the room without another word.

"I believe," said Rosa, "that she'd be happy to give us her last piece of
bread if there was occasion for it"

"Yes, and her life also, if that was necessary," said Teresa in a shaky
voice, as she turned back to her duties in the kitchen.



CHAPTER NINE

A LITTLE GLIMPSE OF HEAVEN

What a wonderful afternoon it was! The sun far down in the west, painted
the eastern mountains with a lovely tint of orange. The warm air was balmy
with the perfume of flowers and the birds were singing cheerfully as they
flitted about.

All was quiet in Catalina's bedroom, where Paula and I were seated. My
sister was now on the road to a partial recovery, having passed the
danger-mark some days before. Another change also I noticed had come over
her. Her impatience and irritability had gradually disappeared, day by day,
and when she suffered more than ordinarily, she never seemed to complain.
The expression of her face had sweetened also, and even a slight but quite
natural smile would often illumine her thin features. Death had passed her
by, but now seemingly a new influence gradually possessed her. This simple
country maid of the Waldensian mountains had come smiling into her life,
and although Catalina had frequently abused the kindness of our cousin,
Paula never had lost patience with the poor invalid. Soon love had
triumphed, and Catalina had begun to return the love of her little nurse
even though at times she still kept her tyrannical attitude.

One day Catalina said to Teresa, "Paula's not a bit like the rest of us."

"No," she answered, "She's a 'Daughter of the good God!' Just as I said one
day when she first arrived." Teresa sighed as she added, "What would I give
to be like her!"

One beautiful afternoon, the poor invalid lay there with her eyes on Paula
as if she wished to say something.

"How do you feel now?" said Paula as Catalina's fixed gaze seemed to
disturb her somewhat.

"Oh, I'm all right just now. I was thinking of your god-mother's letter.
She remembered, she said, the hymns you used to sing. You've never sung any
of them to us, Paula."

I saw a mist in Paula's eyes as she answered. "No, that's true. I don't
think I've sung a note since my father's death. Would you like to hear me
sing?"

"Yes, indeed," said Catalina, without noticing Paula's emotion.

I was on the point of reminding them of father's formal prohibition
relative to hymn-singing, but an imperative sign from Catalina stopped me.

"What do you wish me to sing?" said Paula.

"Anything you care to. It's all the same to me."

"Then," said Paula, "I will sing to you, 'No Night There.'" And then to our
unaccustomed ears came the glorious words:

  In the land of fadeless day,
  Lies the city four-sqare,
  It shall never pass away,
  And there is no night there.

  "God shall wipe away all tears;
  There's no death, no pain, nor fears;
  And they count not time by years,
  For there is no night there.

Paula had that rare gift, the "golden" voice, a voice that seemed to
penetrate to one's very soul. Catalina was enchanted!

Suddenly, I heard the heavy steps of a man coming along the corridor. But
as Paula began the second stanza, I heard them pause.

  "All the gates of pearl are made,
  In the city four-square,
  All the streets with gold are laid,
  And there is no night there.

  "And the gates shall never close,
  To the city four-square,
  There life's crystal river flows,
  And there is no night there."

Paula's voice trembled at the beginning. Then presently the sadness in her
tones disappeared, and they seemed to swell out like an echo of radiant
happiness. Catalina listened, hardly breathing. Involuntarily, I asked
myself if Paula in heaven would be any different from the little country
girl I saw seated near the window at this moment. I had an instant's
impression that a man was standing behind the door, but I felt this could
not be, for I knew that my father would be at his office. A special light
came over the expressive face of Paula as she continued:

  "There they need no sunshine bright,
  In the city four-square,
  For the Lamb is all the light,
  And there is no night there."

And then again the wonderful refrain:

  "God shall wipe away all tears;
  There's no death, no pain, nor fears;
  And they count not time by years,
  For there is no night there."

The sweet sounds died away, and Paula looked smilingly at Catalina as if
asking her opinion of the song.

"What a marvelous song!" exclaimed the poor sick girl. "And, Paula, you
have a voice like an angel!"

I did not hear my little companion's reply. This time I was not mistaken;
there was someone there behind that door. Impelled by curiosity I ran to
open it At first I saw no one in the darkened passage, but finally I could
make out my father moving off down the hall. When he saw that I had
discovered him, he stopped and put a finger to his lips, and made signs to
me to keep silent, but in my surprise I cried, "Is it you, father?"

"Yes," he answered, "I came home earlier than I expected. Was that Paula
who was singing in Catalina's room?"

"I--I--don't know," I hesitated, not knowing what to say.

There was an instant of terrible silence like a calm before the storm.

"You--don't--know," my father slowly repeated. "You dare to look at me and
say you don't know when you have just this moment come out of your sister's
room?"

"Oh, father, please forgive me," I exclaimed penitently. "It was indeed
Paula that sang. But don't punish her. She didn't know that you had
forbidden our singing hymns."

"Who said I was going to punish her?" my father questioned. And I could see
that his anger had cooled. "Come here!"

Taking me by the hand, we went back together to my sister's room.

"Would it tire you, Catalina, to hear Paula sing again?" he asked.

"Why, no, father," Catalina answered, surprised.

"Then, Paula," said my father, "sing again that same song."

And once more we heard, "There's no night there."

"Who taught you to sing?" my father asked.

"I think it was my father. But in our valley, everybody sings. On the
roads, climbing the hills, caring for the animals, in the meetings; in
fact, everywhere."

Catalina looked at my father furtively, and noticed that his face remained
serene, almost tender, and so she hastened to profit by the occasion.

"Dear father," she said in a low voice, "Let her sing to us once in a
while; will you? It's such a joy to hear her."

"Doesn't it tire you?"

"On the contrary, I think it does me good." And Catalina looked at her
father appealingly.

"Let her sing," he said, "but leave it to the nightingales to sing alone.
There are so few of them."

"And won't you let the crows sing along with her too, if we care to?"

"There are too many crows," said my father, shaking his head.

"You are right, father, and your daughter Catalina is one of the number,
for she's only a poor sick crow. But sometimes, father, you know the crows
envy the nightingales."

The comparison made my father laugh heartily, and he let himself be
persuaded by his elder daughter--that elder daughter whose voice was so
like that of that dear wife of his, now forever silent.

"Well, crows and nightingales let them sing together," he said; and
embracing all three of us, he bid us goodnight. He disappeared, but not
without turning for a moment to Paula with the remark, "Good-night, my
little Alpine nightingale."

And Paula, who did not seem to comprehend a single word of this
conversation, answered gravely, "Good-night, uncle."



CHAPTER TEN

IN THE COUNTRY

Once a year we were accustomed to visit our grandparents and this was
generally made a real family reunion. There we met with all our uncles and
aunts and cousins. It was also a joyful occasion for Teresa who was very
fond of Justina, grandmother's faithful old servant Grandfather had been a
very successful farmer, intelligent, hard-working and economical without
being stingy. After many years' work he had amassed a considerable fortune.
The big farm which to Catalina and Rosa was but a dim memory, but whose
glories Teresa had often recounted to us, had been sold quite a number of
years before. My grandfather had then bought a beautiful house nearby, with
a few acres surrounding it just to remind him of his former activities. The
garden itself was large and imposing and well-cared for under the critical
eyes of both of our grandparents, who specialized in new and rare plants.
The flowers, appearing in profusion in all seasons of the year (even in
winter in the great hot-houses), filled the air with their delicious
perfumes.

Our grandparents reigned over this domain and it was here that they loved
to welcome us. Our father was their especial pride and joy as he was the
oldest son.

Our grandfather had a gruff enormous voice and possessed a pair of great
square shoulders; in fact, he was a real "countryman." But beneath his rude
exterior he had a heart of gold, and no one could gain the confidence of a
little child quicker than he.

Grandmother was of a different type with her long black dress and her
beautiful white hair, of which she was justly proud. She could easily have
been mistaken for a noblewoman. She was a strong character and had had the
advantage of considerable schooling. She was every inch "the fine lady,"
with her firm step and resolute voice and her brilliant black eyes.
Nevertheless, we all loved her dearly, for there was a simple loving heart
hidden away beneath all her magnificence.

Justina, who had been her faithful servant for forty years, never tired of
singing the praises of her "Madame." If during our short stay at "Las
Lilas" we showed ourselves unduly boisterous, or when we disobeyed orders,
Justina would say to us after we had been properly reprimanded, "You never,
never will be like your grandmother!"

Grandfather always met us at the little railway station. On our arrival he
embraced everybody, including our father whom he would kiss on both cheeks
as if he had been a child. Catalina would first be hoisted up into the
great carriage and we would follow one after the other. Louis took unto
himself the honor of holding the reins, and after everybody was
well-seated, except my father and grandfather who marched on ahead of the
horses, the slow procession to the house would begin.

In half-an-hour we could see the great house where grandma and Justina,
decked out in their Sunday gowns, awaited our arrival. There, after various
comments on our growths and states of health, Catalina would be conducted
by her grandmother to her room to rest after the tiresome journey, while
Justina would carry off Teresa to the kitchen, and the rest of us would
hurry to the orchard where grandfather with a vigorous hand would shake
down the apples and pears into our outstretched aprons. Those were ecstatic
moments when we could bury our teeth in the newly-fallen fruit. Soon father
would cry, "That's enough! That's enough! There'll be nothing left for
anybody else!" But grandfather continuing to shake down more fruit would
answer with his great gruff voice, "First come, first served! Besides, look
over there to the right! There are thousands of apples that we haven't even
touched!"

Soon after this there would appear in a cloud of dust, the carriages of our
uncles August and Edward with their families from Havre and Paris, carrying
all sorts of bundles mixed up with the children and nurses.

In the doorway of the garden would be our grandmother waiting to welcome
everybody, her numerous grandchildren clambering about her and embracing
her affectionately, each one fighting for the first kiss. "Me, me, grandma;
I'm the smallest." "No, me, me, grandma; I'm the biggest" When they had
been all finally satisfied, she would embrace with great tenderness all her
sons, inquiring of each in turn as to his health.

Sometimes in the conversation there would come a cloud of sadness as some
relative would be mentioned who had departed since the last family reunion.
Then finally, after having returned to the garden to play for a while under
the great trees, the bell of the nearby church would strike the hour of
noon, and Justina would appear at the grape arbor entrance crying, "Come
one, come all! The soup is getting cold!"

Then there would be a wild race on the part of all the cousins to see who
would be first at the long table placed in the cool shade under the great
spreading vines, that wonderful table with its wide damask covering which
only appeared on state occasions. Grandma's loving hospitality was shown in
the minutest details of that elaborate feast; for she had remembered the
favorite dishes of each one of her three sons and each found himself
confronted with the delight of his childhood. When under the maternal eye
in bygone days, he was not allowed to overeat; but now each was left to his
own discretion to satisfy the most ample appetite.

And then came those delicious desserts followed by fruits and nuts which
had been especially kept as the crown of the feast to accompany the final
coffee-cup. Again the afternoon was spent in the garden, while the babies
slept in the shade under the eye of the respective mothers.

The most solemn moment of our visit was when we had to make our report to
our grandparents as to our progress in school. I remember especially one
year when Rosa was the first in her class, and Santiago our tall cousin had
taken the first prize in the great school of "Louis the Great," from which
each year he carried new laurels. For them it was of course a time of
triumph--but for me! oh, with what shame I presented my report card. My
grandmother read it. "Lisita Dumas--last place!" and I hid my face in my
hands.

"Come, come," grandma said, "don't cry. Try to do better next time."

My cousins were not quite so charitable as they passed my poor card from
hand to hand.

"Tell us, Lisita," Santiago said, when he thought we were well out of
ear-shot of our elders, "you certainly do love to ride in the seat behind,
do you not?" and he pulled my hair with the remark, "Better let somebody
else sit there, hereafter." But grandmother overheard him and she said, "Go
a little slower, my fine fellow. Lisita might have a more brilliant future
than you think. And besides, when you, my fine grandson, are scintillating
in the world of letters and Rosa is director of the great normal school,
perhaps Lisita may be occupying a comfortable post right here in this great
house." I didn't understand the full import of these remarks, but I noticed
it had the effect of silencing my tormentor who slunk away abashed.

We would play happily in the garden until supper-time and even the grown
folks joined us in some of our games. Sometimes father would gather all of
us children around him, and we would never tire of hearing the stories of
his adventures when, as a young man, he had gone far beyond the boundaries
of France. These wonderful stories seemed so strange to us as we looked
upon our father's sad and severe countenance; but our uncles August and
Edward informed us that at one time he was the happiest and gayest of them
all.

After supper came the problem of housing us all. The boys always slept in
the hay barn. "A good preparation," said Uncle August, "for their future
training in the army." The rest of us found resting-places somehow here and
there in the great house. On the following day we would gather at
breakfast, and then the men folks would be off again to their various tasks
in the big towns. After a good time in the garden in the morning, the two
carriages to Paris and Havre would be loaded up again, and we would take
the train once more, generally leaving Catalina to pass an additional week
in the invigorating air of "Las Lilas." This short visit in the country was
the great event of the year in my young life. I talked about it six months
beforehand and for six months afterward. The other scholars made fun of me
in school, and dubbed me "Las Lilas" because I talked so much about my
grandfather's home in the country. But Paula was a most sympathetic
listener. She never tired of hearing me repeat over and over our
experiences at "Las Lilas." It must be confessed that I exaggerated in
describing many things about my grandfather's place, until my country
cousin came to believe that my grandfather's house was a palace and that
the garden was a veritable Eden.

"You shall see, you shall see!" I exclaimed as I ended my description.

The cow appeared to be the most interesting thing to Paula. "If your
grandfather has a cow, it must be that he really lives in the country," she
said.

"Of course he lives in the country," I said, "it is so beautiful there. But
don't you think that we also are living in the country here in 'The
Convent'?" Paula laughed heartily at this but made no further comment.

At last the annual letter of invitation arrived. I recognized it on account
of the beautiful handwriting of my grandmother. "It is for next Saturday,"
announced my father, "and we are all invited to stay until Monday. And now
listen, Paula, this concerns you. Grandmother writes, 'It would delight me
very much to embrace our new little relative. I hope that from now on she
will keep a warm place in her heart for her old grandmother who loves her
without having ever met her.'"

Teresa, who was indeed tired out with the care of Catalina, and who was
very sensitive to warm weather, was no less happy than we were, for she,
too, was to go with us. Only Catalina manifested no enthusiasm over the
coming visit. My father observing this said to her anxiously, "You have
nothing to say, daughter mine?"

"I'm not going, father."

"What's that you say? You've been much better these last days and are well
able to stand the trip. You weren't very well last year, and yet you went
to 'Las Lilas' and found it so beneficial to your health."

"Yes, I know, father," answered poor Catalina, "but I know also that I've
always been a source of great trouble for you, and Teresa would never have
a minute's peace because of me. I shall go a little later, father, when I'm
stronger, if grandmother will have me. She knows very well how I long to go
to 'Las Lilas' but I fear that the trip would only bring on an especial
spell of weariness and that would spoil the fun of everybody. Maria, who
works in the garden here, can look after me for a day or two. She is very
kind and thoughtful, and I know she'll care for me very well."

We all stared at Catalina! It was the first time in all her history that I
had ever seen her forget herself. It was a great struggle, for she had
become so accustomed to think only of her own comfort. Tears welled up in
her eyes as she smilingly awaited father's decision. "But this is going to
be a great disappointment to you," he said, passing his hand over the
feverish forehead of the invalid.

"No, father; it will give me great pleasure this time," came Catalina's
brave answer.

"Be it therefore as you wish," he said.

Pleasure? I couldn't understand what pleasure there would be for Catalina
to stay behind alone with Maria, especially at this time of the great event
of the year.

My father looked at Catalina tenderly as if he read her very heart, and saw
there something he had never seen before. "Thou hast changed much, daughter
mine, since your last sickness."

"For better or worse?" asked Catalina with a mischievous smile.

"For better, my daughter. Indeed, far better!"

"It's because I'm older than I was, perhaps, father."

"No, no; it's more than that."

"I wonder if I could dare tell you the truth."

"Never fear. Tell me what's on your mind, Catalina."

"Well, it's this, father dear. God has spoken to me and I have answered
Him."

"How has He spoken to thee?" said my father, and there was no sternness in
his look either.

Catalina pointed furtively at Paula.

"And how hast thou answered Him?"

"I've asked Him that He might save me and that He might make me a real
Christian."

There was a strange look in my poor father's face as he answered quietly,
"If I could believe that there was a God, I would say that He had heard
thee."

Catalina wrote a long letter to grandmother, the contents of which she did
not care to show us. So it was as Catalina wished, and Maria promised to
take good care of the invalid.

At last the great day arrived. Paula and I, up at sunrise, scurried to the
window to look at the weather, and oh joy! It was a magnificent day without
a cloud in the sky! A little later when Teresa arrived to call us, great
was her surprise to find us all ready to start.

"What a wonderful thing," she remarked dryly, "you'd never be late to
school if you did this every morning."

After the first moment of enthusiasm, Paula strangely enough began to lose
little by little the happy atmosphere which usually surrounded her. I
discovered soon the cause. She was thinking of Catalina.

"It's going to be terribly lonely for her," she said.

"Never fear," I said, "she can go another time."

But she shook her head as if trying to throw off something painful that
seemed to be on her mind.

"Oh, Lisita, if you could but know how lonely Catalina will feel as she
sees us go without her. When I took her breakfast to her yesterday and saw
that she had been crying I simply could not bear the thought of leaving her
at home alone."

"But if papa says it is all right, it can't be so bad. Besides, father
loves her as much as you do."

Paula didn't answer me.

Soon the time came to start. Teresa started calling to one and another. One
had lost this thing, another had misplaced something else. My father
scolded and helped, at the same time trying to get us off. Then Rosa wasn't
ready and Louis, always unprepared, couldn't find his favorite blue
necktie. At last we were ready. The only thing that remained was to say
good-bye to Catalina. Louis, impatient to be off, performed that ceremony
quickly; Rosa who had reserved a surprise for the invalid, put a new book
into her hand as she kissed her; Teresa, as she embraced her in her turn,
left many instructions; then, as Paula came forward, we heard a sob as she
buried her face on my oldest sister's shoulder.

"What's the matter now?" said my father. An unintelligible sound was heard;
but Catalina understood and her eyes moistened with happiness. "Oh,
father," she said, "I know; she's crying on my account, she doesn't want to
leave me alone here." "Is that it, Paula?" questioned my father. "Yes,
please leave me here, uncle, I shall be so happy to be at Catalina's side
while you are gone." But Catalina refused this sacrifice, saying, "No, no,
my dear little Paula. I'll not be lonely. You have too tender a heart. Now
go, things will be all right here. Everything has been arranged for me, and
it will make me happy to know of the good time you are all to have with our
grandmother."

My father didn't know what to do. The time was passing. "Come, Paula,
come," he said; "it's time to go."

Paula raised her head. "If you order me to go, I'll go, for I must obey
you, and I know they are waiting for us. But if you will _permit_ me to
stay"--and she put emphasis on the word _permit_ in her peculiarly
irresistible manner--"I would be a whole lot happier here than in 'Las
Lilas.'"

"Stay then," said my father, as he added with a smile, "You certainly are a
little despot, for you seem to twist me to your will in everything."

Paula laughed at this, as happy as if she had received the most valuable of
gifts, as she kissed him.

"Oh, yes; kisses are all very well," said father, pretending to be angry,
"but what will the grandparents say?"

"You will tell them"--but the rest of the sentence I could not hear, as she
bent close to my father's ear.

"Where's Paula?" everybody cried, as we went through the door downstairs.

"Look," said my father, pointing to the upper window. There was Paula, with
a radiant face, waving her handkerchief in good-bye to all of us!

"Come, come, hurry up; stop your fooling!" cried Louis.

"I'm staying here."

"How is that?"

"Oh, I'm just staying with Catalina."

"That's too much!" cried Louis, "to stay here while the rest of us go on a
holiday. Papa, you won't permit such a silly thing; will you?"

"Well, she begged me with tears to let her stay and there she is," said
father.

"Good-bye, uncle; good-bye, Teresa--A happy journey to you all," cried
Paula. "Give a good hug and a kiss to grandmother and to grandfather," we
heard her say as we turned the corner.

"She isn't a bit like the rest of us," said Louis, "she never seems to seek
her own pleasure, and yet the funny thing about it is, she's always happy.
I can't understand a nature like that."

"It's because she finds her happiness in making other people happy," said
Teresa.

This was also what our grandmother said, when we explained Paula's absence.



CHAPTER ELEVEN

THE CAT MOTHER

It was the month of October. I was sure that my father would permit Paula
to go to school with me after the summer vacation, but not so. Catalina
herself wished to teach her at home. This decision caused me many tears and
complainings.

Teresa tried to console me. "Don't worry," she said, "just wait a little. I
know Catalina, she'll soon tire of teaching, and then she'll let Paula go
to school with you." Teresa was right In the beginning Catalina was
enchanted with the task. Paula was obedient, and she did the best she
could; but she didn't learn very quickly, therefore Catalina soon tired,
and Paula, with a teacher so inexperienced, became sleepy and inattentive.

So it was that the teacher tired the pupil and the pupil tired the teacher.
Catalina was the first to complain. "Paula doesn't care much for study,"
she said to her father. "I'm afraid I am wasting my time trying to teach
her."

"Well, then," said my father, "perhaps the best thing will be to send her
along to school with Lisita."

Catalina hesitated a moment. She wished to do something for others, but she
was slow to learn how.

"I think it would be better to let her go," she said resignedly.

So it was that the following Monday my father accompanied us both to school
and duly inscribed her as a student. Paula immediately became the center of
great interest on the part of my school-companions. They remarked upon the
beauty of her eyes and hair, the latter reaching almost to her knees.

Coming out of class at noon-time all forty-five pupils surrounded her
affectionately, and at the end of a week Paula was the best-known pupil in
the entire school. Catalina was right, however, for Paula was not really a
student, but she applied herself because, as she said, she did not wish to
cause pain to Mademoiselle, the teacher.

As she left the school in the afternoon, the teacher would kiss Paula with
a tenderness not seen toward others. At times Paula would bring her a few
flowers, which caused Mademoiselle's eyes to sparkle with such happiness
that she almost seemed beautiful to us.

"Have you a garden?" she said to us one day.

"Yes, Mademoiselle."

"How happy I should be to have one. When you have an over-abundance of
flowers don't forget me."

"Poor Mademoiselle Virtud," said Paula one day, "I am sure she has some
secret burden."

"Nobody likes her," I said. (I remembered that I had twenty-five lines to
copy because I had talked all the afternoon.)

"God loves her!"

"And you?" I questioned.

"Oh, certainly," said Paula.

"Notwithstanding she is so disagreeable?"

"I do not know. We don't know her outside of school."

"And I don't want to know her. As for you, you love everybody that nobody
else loves." And that was true: Paula was always the friend of the poor and
the despised. In that great school which was a world in miniature, there
were many unfortunate little ones who suffered neglect from their drunken
parents; others were cruelly treated at home, and in the case of still
others, their timidity or physical weakness exposed them to the ridicule of
their comrades. In Paula, however, they all found a friend and a companion
who loved them and defended them.

The capacity to love and to make others happy, extended itself also to the
animals, but not to those small boys who destroyed the birds' nests or
threw stones at the horses or dogs--these she attacked without mercy. In
the neighborhood of "The Convent" where we lived, there were quite a number
of this type of boy whose greatest pleasure was to torture the dogs and
cats. One of these especially, the son of the "Breton," was a veritable
executioner. He never attended school, for his father never bothered with
him, and his mother, poor woman, accustomed to misery and the blows of her
drunken husband, had apparently lost all semblance of human feeling. This
boy spent his time tormenting anything or anybody who was unable to resist
him--old men, sick people, little children, and especially dumb animals.

One cold day in December Paula and I were walking slowly along the street,
studying our lessons as we walked. Suddenly we heard the piercing cries of
a cat in distress. Paula, always touched by suffering of any kind, stopped
to listen. Louder came the cries of the cat.

"Mee-ow, mee-ow."

Paula threw her grammar on a road-side bench. "Poor little thing," I cried,
"we can't help him, for I can't see where he can possibly be."

"Well, I can't stop here," said Paula. "Come along, we'll soon find him."

We ran over to the canal which ran along a few feet below the avenue.
Suddenly I was afraid!

"Perhaps Joseph, the Breton's son, is mixed up in this!" I said trembling.

"Come along anyway, unless you want me to go alone," Paula said quietly. So
I followed her.

Sure enough, it was the Breton's son surrounded by a dozen ragamuffins of
his own set. They took no notice of us. He had a beautiful black cat, that
had a string tied to its hind legs. The boy was swinging it around his head
and at times ducking it in the canal while his companions danced around him
with delight.

"Now that he's good and wet, let's bury him," suggested Joseph.

"Alive?" said his comrades.

"Of course alive! And the old dame, his owner can--"

But here Paula suddenly lunged forward, seizing the wicked youngster by the
wrists with a surprising strength for one of her age.

"You'll do nothing of the kind," she cried. "Let him go; do you hear me?"

"Let me alone!" said the young bully as he tried to bite her.

Not being able to accomplish this, he gave her a ferocious kick, which
caused Paula to let go with a cry of pain. She now saw that her efforts
were useless.

"See here," she said to him, after a few seconds' thought, "If you give me
the cat, I'll give you four cents."

"Ah, you haven't got four cents."

"Yes, I have; I have it here in my pocket"

"All right, let me have the money."

"No, no," said Paula, "if I give you my four cents first, I know you will
never let me have the cat. Come, give him to me," she said beseechingly;
"he's never done you any harm and you have made him suffer so much." But
Joseph refused this appeal. With a diabolical grin he raised the cat again
to swing it over his head. There was a meow of agony--but it was the last
one! In spite of her former lack of success, Paula made one supreme effort
to rescue the cat. Somehow the string got loose, the cat escaped, and was
soon lost to view.

Then the rage of the young ruffian knew no bounds as he turned to Paula.

"Run, run!" I cried; but Joseph and his companions cut off the only path of
escape.

Crazy with terror, I began to yell, "Help! help!" with all my strength; but
the boys drowned my cries with their own shouts. This very circumstance
saved us. I saw someone coming to our help.

We soon recognized with joy that it was Dr. Lebon. On seeing him the boys
ran away with the exception of Joseph, who was a little too late. The
Doctor, who knew him, suspected he was the guilty one, and succeeded in
getting him by the ear. Then the doctor said to me, "What has happened,
Lisita?" And I told him the whole story.

"Well, he won't do it again; that's one thing certain," said the doctor.

"Oh, let him go!" said Paula generously.

"Paula," said the doctor with a severity we had never seen in him before,
"Go back to the house with Lisita!"

We had nothing to do but obey. On the way back we could tell by Joseph's
cries that he was having a bad time of it!

Teresa was frightened when she saw the condition of Paula's leg, as the
result of the terrible kick she had received. The doctor soon arrived at
the house, and Paula could scarcely help crying as the doctor examined her;
but he said as he left us, "If I am not mistaken, Joseph will never trouble
you any more."

This was true. Joseph avoided us for a long time; but he took revenge on us
through the other boys, who would cry after Paula as she walked up the
street, "Cat mother! Cat mother!" This incident won us a friend. Shortly
afterwards, returning from school, an elderly woman that lived in one of
the most miserable huts among the "Red Cottages", stopped us and asked if
one of us was called Paula.

"This is she," said I, pointing to my cousin.

"Then you are the one that saved my cat," she said. "How can I thank you
enough, Mademoiselle? For that cat is my one consolation. If you would be
kind enough to visit me sometime, I would be so pleased to see you."

Paula looked at her in surprise, and said, "I will ask Teresa if we may
come to see you." Which permission Teresa readily gave.

"It's Louisa. I know her well. She has lived in that little hut for fifteen
years. True, she is a bit weak in her head but she would never hurt a fly.
Speak to her of the Lord Jesus, Paula! It will do her good."

On the following Thursday, therefore, we went to visit her. As we left the
house, Teresa handed us a jar of preserves, saying, "Give Louisa this. Poor
thing! Not many good things have come into her life."

Louisa herself answered our knock, "Ah," she said, "please excuse the
disorder. If I had known you were coming today I would have straightened
things a bit. Sit down here, on this box, Mesdemoiselles. I am sorry that I
have no chairs to offer you. Ah, here comes Cordero!" she continued, and we
could hardly recognize the beautiful black cat that jumped purring into
Paula's lap, as the same cadaverous animal that was swinging around
Joseph's head a few days before.

"It's my one friend," said the poor old woman, sitting down on another box.

"Do you believe that?" said Paula. "Can you not call us your friends? And
there's another friend who has sent you a present. Our Teresa sent this for
you." She placed in the eager hands of the old woman the preserves.

"Is it for me? How can I thank you? For years everybody has made fun of me,
for I never speak to anyone; preferring the company of animals to that of
people."

Paula had such a sympathetic way of getting at people's hearts, that
instinctively she understood how lonely Louisa had been.

"By the way," said Paula, "this is for your cat"--and she put two cents on
the table.

The old woman did not seem to understand.

"It's for him, you know," said Paula, "you can buy some liver with this.
Surely Cordero likes liver!"

The pleasure in Louisa's eyes was almost childlike, as she addressed her
cat saying, "You must thank this good mademoiselle," and Cordero jumped
down and rubbed against Paula in a most affectionate manner.

It was time to leave as the short day was ending and we had to be in the
house before dark.

"How can I thank you, mademoiselle?" said Louisa. "Do come to see me soon
again, even though I am a poor old woman who nobody loves."

"Oh, Louisa," exclaimed Paula, "there is One who loves you: don't you know
Him?"

Louisa shook her head sadly.

"No, nobody loves me. And to tell you the truth, I don't love anyone else
either."

"The Lord Jesus loves you, Louisa."

"The Lord Jesus? Tell me about Him, mademoiselle; I have heard the
name--who is He?"

"The Lord Jesus is He who died on the cross, that you might go to Heaven.
He suffered much before He died. They despised Him. They beat Him. They
spat in His face. Even His own friends deserted Him and He was so poor that
He didn't have any place at night to lay His head. Yet, He was God Himself.
He died for our sins--and He rose from the dead. He is now in Heaven, and
He waits to receive you there, Louisa. None of us deserve to go to Heaven,
but He who was so perfect suffered in our stead. He died for all of us
sinners that we might be pardoned. I wish I could explain it better, much
better, but Jesus loves you, Louisa. I know He loves you more than you
could ever dream."

Louisa's wrinkled face lighted with a smile; but she did not seem able to
believe or comprehend this good news, which came to her, oh, so late in
life.

"Oh, if it were only true," she murmured, as she clasped her hands together
and her eyes filled with tears.

"But it is true, Louisa; don't you believe it? See here, He knows very well
you live here alone with your cat, and that you are so sad, and that you
have nobody else to care for you. He wishes to be your Friend, and He will
be if you will ask Him. Why not ask Him now, Louisa?"

"Oh, perhaps so, some day, mademoiselle."

"Do it now, Louisa."

"No, no; not now."

"Oh, why not now, Louisa?"

"Because I don't understand very well, mademoiselle. How could God love me,
a poor, forlorn, useless old woman, who never loved Him, nor served Him.
You come back again. Perhaps I'll end up by understanding better. And now,
good-bye, mesdemoiselles. I have delayed you both too long."

We shook hands with her. Oh, what a cold hand it was! The touch of it sent
a shiver through me!

"Goodbye, Louisa," said Paula, and suddenly kissing her, she gave her a
hearty embrace as well and added, "I am going to pray for you, dear
Louisa." One could see that the poor old woman was greatly touched as she
said simply: "Thank you, mademoiselle, thank you."

I had almost forgotten Louisa and her cat when a few days later a neighbor
came in with a worried look asking for Teresa. When she appeared, the woman
blurted out the news that Louisa was dying.

"Louisa dying? Nonsense, I saw her on the street yesterday."

"Perhaps so, for she dragged herself around until the last minute. But I
knew she was ill, so I took her a cup of hot soup this morning. I found her
in bed with a terrible cough, and now she can scarcely breathe. She keeps
calling for Mademoiselle Paula."

"Have you sent for the doctor?"

"No; she's afraid he'll send her to the hospital and they'll take away her
cat."

Teresa shrugged her shoulders.

"I'll go at once, and I'll take Paula with me."

Murmuring her thanks, the woman left. "Can't I go?" I said. "Oh, Teresa,
please let me go too."

Teresa hesitated. "All right, come along!" she said at last.

Louisa's neighbor had not exaggerated her condition. The poor woman was
sitting up in her bed. Its thin covers could not protect her from the cold,
and a terrible cough racked her thin frame. When, at times, the cough left
her she would fall back on her pillow completely exhausted. It needed all
Teresa's efforts to restore her.

"My poor Louisa!" said Teresa tenderly.

"You were very good to come," said the neighbor who was staying as nurse.
"And Mademoiselle Paula?"

"Here she is. Come here, Paula."

And as Paula came near the bed, Louisa said with a weak voice. "Now I
understand the love of God, for when you kissed me and embraced me, it was
that kiss that made me understand that God loves even me. I will soon be
far from the living, but I shall die in the arms of the Lord Jesus."

"Now, don't cry," continued Louisa weakly, as she saw us all weeping. "My
misfortunes have been my own fault. I was selfish, I wished to live alone
without God and without hope. I have been abandoned. I have known what it
was to be cold and hungry for many years; but the happiest time of my life
has been these last three days. They began with your visit, Mademoiselle
Paula. That afternoon I prayed, and I believe God had pity on me. I am sure
of that."

Here Paula broke in: "You had better not talk any more now, Louisa. Your
cough will come back--you are already too tired."

"Perhaps so," Louisa said, "but I must speak while I have strength for it.
Oh, Mademoiselle Paula, I did want to thank you before I die!"

"But Louisa dear," said Paula in the midst of her tears, "I have done
nothing for you; I didn't even know you were ill."

The poor sick one took Paula's soft hand between her thin ones, and raised
it to her lips, "You have been like God's angel to me."

"No, no, Louisa, Louisa!"

"Yes, and you loved me, mademoiselle, and your love revealed to me God's
love! May He bless you richly!"

"Amen," sighed Teresa.

Then again came that terrible cough which seemed to tear the poor weak body
in two.

"I can do no more," she murmured, as soon as she was able to speak.

"Well," said Teresa, "you will soon be with the Lord Jesus in heaven."

A contented sigh came from the bed as we caught the words, "Oh, what
happiness!"

"Is there nothing you would like us to do for you? No word to send to some
friend or relative?"

"I have no other friend but Cordero, the cat. What will become of him?"

Teresa hated cats, and we never dared bring one into the home, but now we
saw a struggle going on within her, and finally she said, "Would you be
happy if we took him home with us?"

"Oh, indeed, yes," said the poor dying woman, "but please don't take him
yet. Leave him with me until the end. He has been my only comfort and the
nights are so long."

Louisa, however, did not remain alone any longer, for Teresa and several
kind neighbors took their turns night and day to care for the poor invalid.
Teresa brought from home pillows and blankets, and had a good hot fire
always going in the grate. Dr. Lebon was called immediately, but it was too
late; he could only make her last hours more comfortable. A few days later
she died in Teresa's arms. A beautiful smile on the yellow wrinkled face
gave it a happy expression that had never been seen there before.



CHAPTER TWELVE

A TREASURE RESTORED

Our birthdays generally passed without celebration, either in the form of
presents or parties, principally because my father disliked holiday
festivities, as they seemed to bring back to him more bitterly the loss of
her who could no longer share their joy with him. On New Year's Day,
however, he always gave a little gift to each one of us. It was our custom
to write him in turn "A Happy New Year" letter.

Louis would always come from school to visit us during his New Year's
holidays, and we had quite a number of visitors who bored us dreadfully.
For me it was a time of good resolutions, and I would go to Teresa and say
invariably as I embraced her, "I wish you a very happy New Year, Teresa.
Will you please forgive me for all the trouble I have caused you this past
year? And this new year, I am going to be very good." Unfortunately Teresa
never saw any change.

As Christmas-time drew near, Paula questioned me as to how we celebrated
that day.

"We don't celebrate it," I said.

"Oh, Lisita, is that true? You do nothing special on that day?" questioned
my poor cousin surprised.

"No, Christmas with us is not nearly so important as the New Year. Oh, yes;
I generally have to put on my Sunday dress, and then I can't play, for
Teresa is afraid I'll soil it."

"Oh," said Paula whose great eyes seemed to contemplate an invisible
splendor. "In my country we always had a Christmas-tree, and celebrated the
birth of the Lord Jesus."

"Tell me about it," I said, "I have heard about these Christmas
celebrations, but have never seen any."

"Well," said Paula, "sit down here, close to the fire, and I'll tell you
what we did last year. Four of our men went to the mountains and cut down a
beautiful pine tree. They had to go up to their waists in snow, and what a
job it was to bring it all the way down to Villar. But they were all very
strong. My father was one of them. They dragged the tree into the church
because there wouldn't have been room for everybody in the little
school-house. We all helped to decorate it with gold and silver nuts, and
we hung apples and oranges everywhere on its branches. But the beautiful
part were the candles. There were hundreds of them in blue, green, red,
white and yellow. If you could only have seen how beautiful it was, Lisita,
when the candles were lit, especially when they crowned the top of the tree
with a lovely white angel. We sang the wonderful Christmas hymns. Then the
pastor gave us a fine talk about the Saviour. At the close, each of us
children was given an apple, an orange, a little bag of sweets, and a
beautiful little book."

"Oh," said I, "how happy I should be if father would let us go to see it
all. It must be a beautiful country!"

"It is the most beautiful in the world," Paula assured me, her eyes
sparkling.

"We too shall go and live there when we grow up; shall we not, Paula?"

"Yes, indeed, Lisita."

"You know, Paula, father always gives us a New Year's present," as I saw
tears come into Paula's eyes as she thought of her old home. "What would
you like to have if you could choose?"

"There's just one thing I want," said Paula, "and that's my little Bible."

"But that wouldn't be a present," I said.

"No, but it would give me more pleasure than any present," sighed Paula.

       *       *       *       *       *

New Year's Day dawned with splendid weather. It had snowed during the night
and the whole countryside was dressed in white. The sparrows flew back and
forth under our windows, seemingly remembering our custom to scatter crumbs
for them on such an occasion. Of course, we soon satisfied their hunger.

In the dining-room a huge fire burned, and Teresa with Rosa's help prepared
the New Year's breakfast. Paula helped Catalina to dress, for Catalina,
contrary to her custom, decided to breakfast with us, although against
Teresa's advice, for she feared such early rising would tire her too much
for the rest of the day.

"Yes, but I wish to be on hand when father distributes his New Year gifts,"
our invalid said. So Teresa had to yield.

Our father was late in coming so Paula ran to tell him that breakfast was
ready, and soon back she came with her hand in his, with that affecting
grace that was so habitual to her.

When he had received our "Happy New Years" father asked us if we wanted the
presents before or after breakfast.

"Before! Before!" we all cried.

"Very well," he said, "I have tried to satisfy everybody's taste, so I
trust everybody will be contented. Here, Paula, this little package is for
you. Catalina assured me that this would give you more pleasure than
anything else."

Paula took the package and turned it over and over.

"It is a book," she said in a voice that was none too steady.

"Do you think so?" said Catalina with a smile. "In that case hurry up, and
show us."

"Hurry up," cried Louis, handing her his jack-knife. "Cut the string and
open the package. We want to see what it is."

She obeyed, a bit confused to see all eyes fixed upon her. Inside she found
a little black book with a much-used cover.

She raised her eyes in gratitude to father and tried to thank him, but
could not find a word to say. Eagerly her fingers turned the precious
pages. Suddenly out fell a five-franc-piece.

"There, there," said my father, as she tried to express her thanks, "I am
more than satisfied, if I have made you happy."

"Happy!" said Paula, "I am more than happy!" She took her beloved Book, and
as she turned its pages she found still other treasures--a few faded
flowers which to my mind appeared to have no value whatsoever, and yet I
could see that they seemed to call up once more the precious memories of
her past life in that far-off Waldensian Valley.

"Dear uncle," said Paula, "Did you read the Book?"

"Yes, I read part of it, but if I have returned it to you today, it is not
because I have finished reading it, nor is it because Catalina has begged
me to return it to you. It is because you have obliged me to read another
book."

"I, uncle? What book can that be?"

"Yes, it may seem strange to you, but you see, you have lived among us in
such a way that I am to confess that I wish that my three daughters would
imitate your manner of living. You have made me comprehend the love that
your Bible speaks of, and of which Christ gave us an example, and which He
apparently has put into your life, and so I give back your Bible to you
with all my heart."

One can imagine our feelings as we listened to this strange discourse from
the lips of him who only a short time before had been so opposed to such
things!

"And then, Paula, I have something more to say," said my father. "Do you
remember the day when I hit you on the head with your Bible as I took it
away from you? I wish to say that I am sorry beyond expression for what I
did that day;--and now have you pardoned me, little daughter?"

For reply Paula took my father's hands in hers, then in a flood of
generosity and forgetfulness of self she gave her Bible back to him, simply
saying, "I give it back to you, dearest uncle!"

"You give it back to me!" said my father, stupefied, "You give me back the
Bible you loved so much!" "Yes," answered Paula, "because Teresa has
promised to give me another."

"But do you mean to tell me that you would care for a new Bible as much as
this one?"

"Oh, no," she said, "Father gave me that one, and it's full of his
markings, and it was in that Bible that I learned to love the Lord Jesus."

"And then--?"

"Well, it's because it is the most precious thing that I have in all the
world that I give it to you. Because you see I love you so, and I would
wish ... Oh, how I do wish that you could learn to know Him too."

"My poor dear child," said my father, "I cannot accept your sacrifice, but
I shall always remember your thought of me; and in the meantime, if you
like, we can go and buy another Bible like yours that I, too, may read it.
How will that do?" At this Paula clapped her hands in delight, as she said,
"Indeed, that will be wonderful!"



CHAPTER THIRTEEN



THE SCHOOL-TEACHER AND HER BROTHER

"Lisita," said Paula to me one day on returning from school, "Mlle. Virtud
was not in class this morning."

"That's all the same to me," I said with indifference, "except that if I
had known that, I would have gone to school anyway in spite of my
chilblains."

"Do they still hurt you so badly," Paula asked.

"Yes, quite a bit; but not so badly as yesterday, and it bores me terribly
to stay at home alone. You see, Teresa makes me clean the spinach, and
Catalina gives me a basketful of stockings to darn, and I think I'd rather
go to school, especially if there is anything the matter with the teacher,
even though my feet hurt worse than a toothache. Do you ever have
chilblains?"

"No, I don't think I ever had them."

"Well," I said, "I always seem to be the one that gets something--something
that's bad and horrible."

"I think that Mlle. Virtud is sick," continued Paula.

"You're always thinking of that woman. I tell you, it doesn't make any
difference to me what happens to her," I said impatiently.

"Oh, Lisita, aren't you ashamed to say such a thing?"

"No," I said, "How do you expect me to like her? No matter what I do in the
class she punishes me for the slightest thing; and not only do I suffer in
class, but I get twenty-five lines to copy after school, so that I have no
time to play with the rest of them. How I do detest that woman!"

"Of whom were you speaking?" asked Teresa, who appeared at that moment.

"Of the school-teacher, Mlle. Virtud."

"I have a good mind to box your ears," cried Teresa indignantly. "You
detest such a fine young lady who works in your behalf."

"Oh, Teresa, don't be angry," I said. "You have no idea how she makes me
suffer. When you were little you never went to school, so you do not
understand. Now, listen--instead of keeping the bad children after school,
she sends us all home with twenty to fifty lines to copy, while she goes
calmly back to her house. The other teachers keep the bad ones there for
ten minutes or so, and that's all there is to it, which is a whole lot more
agreeable."

"Mlle. Virtud is absolutely right, for she makes the punishment fit the
crime."

"No, it isn't that," I answered in a rage; "It's because she doesn't want
to stay in school like the other teachers, the selfish thing! Here I am
right now with lines which were given last Monday, and I'm not going to do
them. She can say what she pleases!"

Paula, whose tender heart would have loved to have been on my side and also
on that of Mlle. Virtud at the same time, suggested that perhaps she had
someone who was ill in the house.

"She," I cried, "Mile. Virtud! Who do you think would ever have such a
disagreeable thing in the house with them! Besides, she has told us that
her family live far away in the country."

"I don't know," said Paula; "but do you remember the day when we saw her
carrying flowers back home with her. I dare say it was for somebody."

"Perhaps," I answered indifferently.

That afternoon Teresa permitted me to go to school, and there I found the
teacher of the Third Year in charge of our class. She was a beautiful woman
with lovely golden hair and blue eyes, and pink-and-white cheeks that
reminded one of a wax doll. "Ah," said I to myself, "how I wish I was in
the Third Year to have such a beautiful teacher always in front of me!" She
read to us and told us stories almost all the afternoon, and never punished
anybody, and on coming out of school her two little brothers ran to embrace
her affectionately. "Hurry up, dear sister," said one of them, "Mama is
waiting for us on the porch."

"My! How beautiful she is," I murmured to myself. "How I do love her! Mlle.
Virtud would never be so gentle with her little brothers, if she ever had
any." Then suddenly I stopped, for it seemed to me that I heard Paula
saying to me sadly, "Are you not ashamed of yourself, Lisita?" And I looked
up to see Paula exchanging a few words with a poorly-dressed child just
before she joined me. "Lisita, it is true," Paula said, "Mademoiselle
Virtud is quite ill; she tried to get up this morning and wasn't able to
raise her head. Victoria, the little girl who was speaking to me just now,
knows her very well; in fact, she lives in the same courtyard."

"Who is taking care of her?" I said.

"No one, as far as I can find out. Do you think Teresa would let us go to
see her?"

"No, I am sure she wouldn't, and for one thing, I'd never go. I haven't
done my fifty lines."

"Oh, but see; I'll help you do your fifty lines right now."

"Oh, but that wouldn't be square."

Paula laughed, "You generally haven't such a delicate conscience. You know
very well that half of the time Rosa does your lines for you."

"Oh, Paula, I swear to you--"

"No, don't do anything of the kind. It's useless, for I've seen it myself,
and I'm sure teacher would say nothing if I were to help you in order that
we should both be able to see her. I'm sure she would be so delighted,
Lisita. When my father was so ill, all his pupils came to see him, and he
was so happy."

"Your father wasn't like Mlle. Virtud though. Never! Never! I'll never go
to see her."

"The Lord Jesus said that when we go to see the sick it is as if we visited
Him. Wouldn't you care to go for love of Him, Lisita?"

"Well, we'll talk about that tomorrow," I answered, not daring to refuse on
such grounds, and not caring to promise anything either.

Teresa gave her permission, and promised herself to visit the sick one at
the very first opportunity. Paula wrote exactly half of my fifty lines, and
in order to do so she sacrificed her playtime that afternoon because she
wrote so slowly. I performed my twenty-five without further murmuring, and,
exacting a promise from Paula that she would go in first, I decided to
accompany my cousin on her visit to the teacher.

"Take this," Teresa said to us at the last moment. "It's just a little
chocolate for the sick one, for there is nothing better to fortify her
strength."

"Oh, many thanks," said Paula. "You think of everything. By the way I've
got four cents; what do you think we could buy with them?" Teresa reflected
a minute. "Get some oranges, and see that they are good and ripe. Don't
stay late, for the days are getting short, and it gets terribly cold when
the sun goes down."

Paula herself suddenly became very timid as we entered the Rue Blanche and
asked a young girl where Mlle. Virtud lived.

"Ah, you are looking for Mademoiselle," said a childish voice.

"It's you, Victoria," Paula cried, "I'm so glad to find you here. Yes, we
are looking for Mlle. Virtud."

"Come along, then," said Victoria as she blew on her hands that were purple
with the cold, "I'll take you to her door." She took us up four flights of
stairs when at last we came to Mlle Virtud's apartment. "Here you are,"
said our little guide, and downstairs she went. I started to follow her on
down. "Oh, Lisita," cried Paula; "remember your promise."

"Well, why don't you knock?" I said, rather wickedly, as I saw that Paula
was having trouble to muster up her courage.

"I don't know what's the matter with me; I can't seem to do it."

In a sudden spirit of mischief I suddenly ran to the door and gave it three
tremendous knocks, and then ran into the far comer of the hall.

"Oh, Lisita, how could you," cried poor dismayed Paula.

Pretty soon we heard someone coming slowly to the door, but as if he were
dragging something behind him with each step, and then the door opened
noiselessly, and there stood a forlorn twisted little figure, a lad of
about ten years. As we looked at his face with its halo of golden hair we
forgot all about his deformities.

"Have you come to see my sister?" he said.

"Yes," said Paula, "that is, we have come to see Mademoiselle Virtud."

"She is very, very sick," he said, and we saw that it was with difficulty
that he restrained his tears. As he opened the door a bit wider to let us
in, we saw that a black shawl had been placed over the only window in the
room, so that it was extremely difficult after the door was closed for our
unaccustomed eyes to see anything in the room.

"Elena," called the boy softly; "here are some visitors to see you."

"For me?" said a voice from the darkness--a voice which we recognized at
once.

"Well, then, Gabriel, please take the shawl from the window; they will find
it too dark here."

"But Elena, the light will make your head ache."

"No, no, dear; it's alright now I've slept a bit, and I feel better."

Presently the shawl came down from the window, allowing us to see the form
of poor Mlle. Virtud on the bed.

"Oh," she said, "so it's you! It's very kind of you, dear children, to come
and see me!"

We stood near the door transfixed as we looked on the face of our poor sick
teacher and we saw what a terrible change a few days had made. The little
boy came and stood near his elder sister with a mixed air of concern and
deep affection.

"And how is everybody at the school?" asked the invalid. And Paula told her
a bit about the small happenings in the class.

"And so Mademoiselle Virginia has taken the class. I am sure you must love
her very much."

"Not as much as we do you, dear teacher," said Paula.

"Oh, Paula, you just say that to make me feel good; do you not?" and poor
Mlle. Virtud looked from one to the other of us a bit sadly I thought.

At this, Paula came over to the bed and placed her warm hand on the thin
cheek of the sick one, as she said, "No, Mademoiselle; it is because it is
true, that I said it You are our dear teacher, and we know that you have
sacrificed so much and worked so hard to give us knowledge, and so that is
why we love you."

"I did my fifty lines!" I burst out, "that is to say, Paula did
twenty-five, and I did the rest."

"What's that you say?" and a smile of amusement passed over the thin
features of the teacher, and yet a certain tender look came into her eyes
as she said, "You poor little thing! I'd forgotten all about it!"

"Gabriel," she said, turning to the boy who had been examining us minutely,
"these are the young ladies who have been sending you such beautiful
flowers. You see, he loves flowers so!" explained Mademoiselle. "Poor
child, he cannot walk, and so he has to stay here in this stuffy room all
day long. Before I was ill, I was able to take him out in his little
carriage, and sometimes we would go as far as the open fields where he
could see all the flowers he wanted to, to his heart's desire, but now that
I'm confined to my bed with this heart-attack, those little excursions have
become impossible."

"Are you very sick, Mademoiselle?" Paula asked.

"Oh, I feel very much better today. I have suffered greatly. I must get
better quickly. Madame Boudre, the principal, wrote me yesterday that she
hoped I would be back very soon in my place in the class. Madame Boudre
doesn't care to have sick people," and our teacher looked toward the window
with its little white curtains and sighed deeply. Gabriel came near the
bed, "Don't worry about that, sister; when I get big I will work for you
and become rich, and then you won't need to go to school at all."

How many things I was discovering, I who thought that the life of the
school-teacher was a bed of roses.

"No, never any more," continued the little boy, "I know why you're sick.
It's because the school-children trouble you, and as you told me it gave
you so much pain to punish them, but when I get big you shall see, as I
said before."

Mlle. Virtud looked at the little face with its great earnest eyes.

"I'm afraid you will have to wait a long, long time," she said tenderly, "I
don't think I ever told you young ladies that I had a little brother at
home. He is the youngest of our family, and I am the oldest."

"How is it that Gabriel is not at home with his parents?" questioned Paula.

"Because, you see, he needed certain special treatment which my parents
could not give him in the small village where we live; but here in Rouen
there are fine doctors and big hospitals. Of course, I doubt if he can be
restored completely, but we are doing all we can. That is my one
consolation. I didn't expect that he would be with me so long a time. The
first time Gabriel came to Rouen, he went into the big hospital
'_Hotel-de-Dieu_' but, after staying there for many months, his hip seemed
to be no better, and they could not keep him any longer and then he stayed
with me here so that I could take him to the doctor once in a while."

"You'll tire yourself, Mademoiselle, talking to us," broke in Paula, who
had learned this much, taking care of Catalina.

"Do you think so," said Mademoiselle, "I know I'm not very well yet, but it
isn't very often that I have the pleasure of a visit from my pupils, and so
I'm profiting by it. You see, I took Gabriel home once, but when I started
to return, the poor boy begged so hard to come back with me that finally my
parents agreed; so he's been with me now for several years. We are very
happy, are we not, Gabriel? You see, when I'm in school he's able to tidy
up the house and wash the dishes. What would I do without my little
Gabriel?" she said, as she playfully pulled the little boy's hair.

"And I," said Gabriel, "What would I do without you? In fact, what would
everybody do around this whole court without you? Wasn't it you who--"

"There, that will do," said Mlle. Virtud. "You mustn't tell all the family
secrets. We are here in this world to help others; are we not, Lisita?"

"Yes, Mademoiselle," I answered, and I was filled with fear that there
might be another sermon coming. However, Mlle. Virtud began to tell us of
the rest of the family and of the little village to which they returned at
vacation time; and one could see that her heart was there with her loved
ones. During the next few minutes there was quite a silence, and I began to
shiver with cold, and we noticed that there was no fire in the grate.

"How pale you are," said Mademoiselle; "Are you cold?"

"Yes, a little, Mademoiselle," I said, quite ashamed for my discomfort to
be discovered.

"Poor little girl," she said. Taking my two hands in her two hot ones that
were burning with fever, "You had better not stay here any longer as you
are not accustomed to the cold. Our neighbor made a little fire in the
grate this morning to cook the breakfast with, but it's gone out."

Was it this little touch of tenderness on the part of Mademoiselle, or
remorse for all the wicked feelings I had so long held against my teacher?
Anyway, a flood of tears came as I kneeled beside the bed and hid my face
on the white cover. "Oh, Mademoiselle ... forgive me," I murmured between
by sobs.

All my pride had broken and I saw myself for what I was, guilty, unjust and
cruel toward this young woman whom I had accused of living solely for
herself. I felt a hand passing slowly over my head.

"I forgive you with all my heart, poor child," and the invalid's voice was
both sincere and kindly, and I rose and embraced her with a repentant
heart, and with a hearty kiss I buried our old war then and there, and in
that cold room I felt the warmth of the beginning of a new life for me
although at that time I could not have analyzed it. Suddenly we heard a
knock on the door.

"Ah, that will be Madame Bertin," said Gabriel, as he hitched himself to
the door and opened it, revealing a gray-haired woman who came in on
tiptoe.

"Ah, you have visitors, Mademoiselle," as she stopped a moment near the
door.

"Only two of my pupils who have come to see me. Come in, come in, it's all
right," insisted our teacher.

"Ah," said the new arrival with great interest, "so you are my Victoria's
schoolmates. How proud you ought to be to have such a wonderful teacher!"
Here she advanced to the bed. "Well, I declare," she said, "you have no
more drinking water!" She shook a flask near the bedside, saying, "I will
go and fill it and bring back a little something to make a fire with so as
to get your tea ready. I'm sure Gabriel must be hungry by this time," and
without waiting for a reply the good woman went rapidly down the four
flights of stairs. Paula then gave Mademoiselle the small package Teresa
had sent, as well as the little bag of oranges.

"See, Gabriel!" said Mademoiselle as she opened the packages with delight,
"Oranges!--and chocolate! What a treat! You are very good to remember me in
such a lovely way. Please thank your Teresa too."

"She said she was coming to see you," said Paula.

At this the poor young woman looked disturbed. "I'm afraid she'll find
things in a very bad state here," and she colored slightly.

But as we started to go away Paula assured her that Teresa wouldn't mind a
bit.

"Just a moment," said the invalid; "Would you mind reading me a chapter out
of this book? I have not been able to read it today, as my head ached too
badly. It's a book that I love very much."

"The Bible!" cried Paula, "Oh, I didn't know that you read it too."

The young lady shook her head sadly, "I used to read it when I was a child,
Paula. It was and is the beloved Book of my mother, but for many, many
years I never opened it. When your uncle came to inscribe you as a pupil,
he told me how much you loved your father's Bible, and that started me
thinking of my own, hidden in the bottom of my trunk, and so I began to
read many chapters that I remember having read with my mother, and now I
believe that Gabriel would never tire if I read it to him all day."

"Tell her to read the story of Jesus healing the sick people," came the
eager voice of Gabriel.

Mademoiselle smiled, "Gabriel is right. When people are sick they love to
hear of the greatest doctor of all. Read about the ten lepers, Paula."

At this point the old lady returned, and she too stood and listened as
Paula began to read the wonderful story.

"And as Jesus came to Jerusalem, He went through Galilee, and entering into
a village, behold, ten lepers stood afar off, and cried, Jesus, Master,
have mercy on us, and He said to them, Go show yourselves to the priest.
And as they went their way, they were healed, and one of them seeing that
he was healed, returned and glorified God in a loud voice, and cast himself
at the feet of Jesus, giving thanks to Him, and behold, he was a Samaritan.
Then said Jesus, Were there not ten healed? Where are the nine? Only this
foreigner has returned to give glory to God. And He said to him, Rise,
therefore; thy faith hath made thee whole" (Luke 17:11-19). Here Paula
stopped, not knowing whether to go on to the end of the chapter.

Mlle. Virtud then dosed her eyes, but one could see she was not sleeping.
Paula waited in silence, and so did the old lady as she stood there with
her rough, toil-worn hands clasped beneath her apron.

"Read some more," said Gabriel, "No," said Mlle. Virtud. "It's time the
children returned, for they must reach home before dark." She drew us to
her, giving us both a long embrace. "May God bless you both, by dear young
friends! Come back soon to see me." Then Victoria's mother embraced us
also, saying at the same time, "I have a poor blind daughter. I would be
very grateful if you would stop in to see her the next time and read her
the same story you have just read to Mademoiselle."

"I don't know how to read," she continued; "I have such a poor stupid head,
and Victoria doesn't seem to have learned to read very well. She can show
you where we live--and now, goodbye until the next time."

On our return Teresa prepared supper. She was more hurried than usual
because she had to get the week's wash ready for the next day; but she
listened with great interest, nevertheless, to the story of our afternoon's
visit. "I'm going to see her tomorrow, poor child," she said.

That night Teresa came to tuck us in and kiss us goodnight which was her
habit, as she said, to try to take partly the place of our poor dear
mother. I whispered in her ear, "Teresa, I've come to love Mademoiselle
Virtud."

"Good! good!" exclaimed the old servant; "that's something new indeed! And
why has the wind so suddenly changed in her direction?"

"It's because I know her now!" I said.

Teresa seated herself on my bed, and in spite of the cold she talked to me
a long time, telling me that my heart's coldness and my selfishness had
caused her much grief. I could see how happy I had made her to have
confessed my faults and thus show the beginning of a great change. She told
me how my mother died with a prayer on her lips for me. Then die spoke of
Paula who thought of nothing except making other people happy. "Wouldn't
you like to be like Paula?" Teresa questioned me. "Of course, dear Teresa,"
I said, "but that's impossible, I'm too bad for that."

"Who it is, Lisita, that makes Paula so good?" and Teresa's voice took on a
new and most tender note.

"It's the Lord Jesus!" I answered in a low whisper.

"That's well answered, Lisita! And the same Lord Jesus would do the like
for you. Let me ask you something. Do you not find me changed--since--
since--I began to pray to Him?"

"Yes, Teresa."

"In what way have you noticed the change?"

"Well, for one thing--wash-day doesn't make you irritable, as it used to
do," I said.

"That's something, now isn't it? Oh, when one has the peace of God in the
heart, anger doesn't have a chance to get inside as it used to do."

I looked at her furtively. By the lamplight I could see in those dark blue
eyes such a new, such a tender, confident look, that in spite of the
wrinkled cheeks and her white hair I saw a startling likeness to Paula
herself. I couldn't explain it at the time, but later I understood--Teresa
and Paula were just part of the family of God and it was His likeness of
Jesus, His dear Son, I had seen in both of them.



PART TWO



CHAPTER ONE

SOME YEARS LATER

The years passed swiftly without bringing any great changes in our quiet
life. Our grandparents had aged a bit, and Teresa was not quite as active
as formerly, while a few wrinkles had gathered on our father's forehead;
but all this had come so slowly that the change was hardly noticed.

Rosa, who was now eighteen years old, was studying in the city. She was
still the same--studious, faithful and sincere in all that she did. Her
quiet reserved manner caused some people to call her proud, but those who
knew her better loved her, and knew she could be depended on in time of
trouble.

Catalina still suffered somewhat, but now was able to walk around a bit
without crutches, and in spite of her delicate health and poor twisted body
she had come bravely to take her true place among us as our "big sister,"
so loving and solicitous for everybody's welfare that she came to be known
in the neighborhood as "The little mother."

Paula was now fourteen years of age. In the house, at school, in the
village, everywhere, everybody loved her, and I can say with all honesty
that never a shadow of envy ever disturbed the tender friendship which had
united us to her from the beginning. One could not possibly be jealous of
Paula. All that she possessed was ours. Our joys were hers. Our sorrows
were her sorrows. She had grown in body and mind, and yet had kept the same
characteristics. Always bright and happy and full of fun, she had the same
simple, humble ways as when at ten years of age she had come among us. Her
special summer delight was to run through the fields, always returning to
the house with a big bunch of wild flowers for Catalina. In one thing only
she always seemed to fail. Teresa had a fearful task in teaching her to sew
and to knit.

"What are you going to do in the future if you don't know how to do these
things?"

"I'm sure I don't know," Paula would say sadly, and would take up the work
once more with such sweet resignation that Teresa, moved with compassion,
would take the work from her hands saying--"There! There! Run outdoors now
for a bit of fresh air."

Then away Paula would go into the garden or under the trees that lined the
village street. Soon she was back with such a happy smile that Teresa
forgave her completely.

Once however Teresa lost all patience with her, exclaiming, as she saw the
strange ragged ends she had left in her sewing, "Drop that work, and go
where you please; but remember this, never will you be called a 'Dorcas.'
Never will you be able to sew and provide garments for the poor. It's not
enough to tell them you love them, you must show it by your works--and the
best way to do that would be to learn to be useful to them."

Paula sat back stiff and straight in consternation. "Oh, Teresa, I never,
never thought of that!" she said in a tone of greatest remorse, "Oh, please
let me go on! I will try to do better!"

But Teresa had taken away the work, and was not inclined to be easily
persuaded. "No, not now! Another time perhaps you may show what you can
do."

Paula therefore had to submit; but that was the last time that Teresa had
any reason to complain. That afternoon Paula had gone straight to her room,
and I followed soon after to comfort her, but I found her kneeling by her
bedside pouring out her heart in true repentance to Him who was ever her
unseen Companion. I closed the door gently behind me and stole away.

Later Paula said to me, "Oh, Lisita, I'm surely bad indeed. One thing I've
certainly hated to do, and that is to sit down and learn to sew, especially
in fine weather like this. I seem to hear a thousand voices that call me
out-of-doors. I never could see any earthly reason why I should have to
learn how to sew, and so I never even tried to please Teresa in that way.
But now she tells me that if I go on like this I shall never be able to sew
for the poor. I never thought of that! I wonder what the Lord Jesus must
think of me. He gave His life for me, and here I am not willing to learn
something that would help me to put clothes on poor folks! Oh, I must! I
must learn to sew, no matter what it costs."

That was it--to do something for others, that was the principal thing in
all her thoughts.

In school Paula never did win prizes--nor did I. Both of us were generally
about on an equal level at the bottom of our class.

About a year after our first visit to Mademoiselle Virtud's house, Madame
Boudre had moved us up to the Third Grade. Teresa made a magnificent
apple-cake as a sign of her pleasure. My father also showed his great
satisfaction, and in fact everybody rejoiced to see that at last we were
both making progress. In spite of all, however, there was one great heavy
weight on my heart, and I cried myself to sleep that night I think Mlle.
Virtud also felt badly that we were leaving her, but she made us promise to
come and visit her. "You are no longer my pupils," she said, "but you are
still, and will be always, my dear friends."

Gabriel was so glad to see us that it was always a joy to go and play with
him on our Thursday half-holidays. Paula always told him Bible stories, for
that seemed to be his chief pleasure, and I taught him to read. Victoria's
mother used to bring her work over to Mlle. Virtud's room and heard the
stories with great delight.

"If I had been able to leave my Victoria in school she would have become as
wise and learned as you, Mesdemoiselles," she would say a bit sadly at
times. "But there, I can't complain; what would we have done without the
money she earns at the factory?"

One afternoon we said good-bye to Gabriel and mounted the stairs to visit
the blind girl. Left alone for most of the day, she passed the long hours
knitting. She was about the same age as our Catalina, but she appeared to
be much older. The first time we had visited her, she had hardly raised her
head from her work, and showed but little interest in the stories that her
mother had asked us to read to her. It was not so much indifference as an
apparent incapacity to comprehend the meaning of what she heard. But on
this particular afternoon Paula started singing a hymn. The poor girl
suddenly dropped her work in her lap, and listened with rapt attention.
When Paula had finished she exclaimed "Oh, mamma! mamma! Tell her to please
sing again."

Mme. Bertin could not suppress a cry of delight as she said, "Dear
Mademoiselle Paula, please sing another song! Never have I seen my
Marguerite so happy." And so Paula sang hymn after hymn. As Paula at last
stopped singing, for the time had come to go home, poor Marguerite
stretched out her arms as if groping for something.

"Please do not be offended, Mademoiselle Paula," implored Madame Bertin;
"she wants you to come nearer that she may feel your face. The blind have
no other eyes." Paula kneeled at Marguerite's side and the blind girl
passed her hands gently over the upturned face, pausing an instant at the
broad forehead, then on over the beautiful arched brows and long eyelashes
and the delicately-fashioned nose and lips, that smiled softly as she
touched them.

"You have not seen her hair," said the mother, as she guided the girl's
hands upward and over the waves of light brown hair that seemed like an
aurora fit for such a face, and then finally down the long braids that
extended below Paula's waist Then with one of those sudden movements
characteristic of the blind, she carried the shining braids to her lips and
kissed them as in an ecstasy. Then, just as suddenly, in confusion she
dropped them and buried her own face in her hands.

At this Paula sprang to her feet and put her arms about the poor girl, and
murmured in her ear, "We do love you so, Marguerite!"

After that visit, little by little Marguerite began to love to hear us
speak of the Saviour. Her indifference and sadness disappeared, giving
place to a quiet peace and joy that was contagious for all who came in
contact with her. Mme. Bertin no longer called her "My poor daughter," only
"My Marguerite." For the next two years she became our constant delight.
Teresa at times gave us clothes but slightly worn to take to her, which
gave us almost as much joy as we carried them to Marguerite as she herself
felt on receiving them.

One day Gabriel came running to tell us that Marguerite was quite ill, and
we lost no time in going to see her. With painful feelings of presentiment
we mounted the steep stairs to her room.

As we entered, Madame Bertin came toward us with her apron to her eyes and
Mile. Virtud made signs for us to come over to the bed, as she slightly
raised the sick girl's head.

"Dearest Marguerite," said our teacher; "Here are Paula and Lisita."

"May God bless them both," and Marguerite spread out her ams toward us,
adding, "Oh, Paula, please sing again, 'There's no night there!'" And Paula
sang once more the old hymn.

  "In the land of fadeless day
  Lies the city foursquare;
  It shall never pass away,
  And there is no night there.

  "God shall wipe away all tears;
  There's no death, no pain, nor fears;
  And they count not time by years,
  For there is no night there.

"Oh, how beautiful!" And it seemed as if the poor blind girl were straining
those sightless orbs for a glimpse of the Beautiful City. "Don't cry,
mother," she said as she caught a low sob from the other end of the room.
"I am so happy now to go to be with Jesus in His City." The poor mother put
her face close to her daughter's lips so that she might not lose a word.

"One regret only I have, Mamma," Marguerite said; "and that is, that I have
never seen your face. Oh, that I might have seen it just once."

"In Heaven," interrupted our teacher, "your eyes will be open forever."

"Oh, yes," said the dying girl. "There perhaps I will see Mamma and
Victoria. Will you please give Victoria a kiss for me when she comes home
from the factory tonight Tell her I'm so grateful; she has worked so hard
for us!" Then suddenly--"Paula!" she called--"Paula!"

"Here I am, Marguerite," and Paula came closer, taking her hand.

"Ah, you are here. Thanks, dear Paula," she gasped. "Many thanks for
telling me about Jesus and His love for me. Sing--"

The sentence was never finished, but Paula's sweet voice rose, as once
again she sang the sublime words:

"There is no night there."

"Is she dead?" I said, as we looked down on the still white face.

"Her eyes are open now," said Mlle. Virtud tenderly, "in the City where
there is no night!"



CHAPTER TWO

THE BRETON

It was a snowy, blustery day. It is always a source of pleasure to see the
drifts beginning to bank against the houses across the street On this
afternoon the bushes and roofs were already crowned in white, and all the
trees were festooned as if for a holiday. The smaller objects in the garden
had disappeared under this grand upholstery of nature, and the rattle of
the carts and other ordinary sounds of the village were muffled in the
mantle of snow. To be sure Paula dampened my pleasure a bit by reminding me
that there were many people who were in great suffering on account of the
storm, without proper food, warm clothing, or fire in their houses.

It had been a hard winter. Many of the factories in town had had to
discharge their workers on account of lack of orders. Happily, Teresa with
Catalina's help had done all she could to aid the poor folks in our
neighborhood. Paula had sewed incessantly. Her stitches were pretty uneven
and the thread frequently knotted in her nervous hands, but Teresa said
that the mistakes she made were more than made up by the love that she put
into her work.

I read to Paula while she sewed, and we were certainly happy when at last
the mountain of old clothes which had been gathered for the poor had been
made over and finally distributed to the needy ones.

I remember especially one poor woman to whom Teresa had sent us with a
package of clothes, who received us with tears of gratitude.

And now, as I sat looking out at the gathering drifts, I heard Catalina
remark in a relieved tone, "At last that's finished!"

"What's finished?" I asked. "My old dress," she said. "Who would have
thought I could do a job like this! But there it is turned and darned and
lengthened. Happily, I don't believe that poor Celestina Dubois will be
very difficult to please"--and Catalina pulled a comical smile.

As one looked at that peaceful, beautiful face it was hard to realize that
it could belong to the poor, miserable, complaining invalid of a short time
before!

"What a shame that it's still snowing so hard," she said, "I would have
liked to have sent it over to Celestina today. Teresa says the poor woman
needs it badly. But I suppose we'll have to wait till morning."

"That won't be at all necessary," said Paula, "We're not afraid of a little
snow; are we, Lisita? If you only knew how I love to go out into a
snowstorm like this!"

"You must be like the mountain goats of your own country," said Catalina
with a laugh. "To think of getting any pleasure in going out in a
snowstorm!"

"Oh, no!" said Paula. "The goats don't like the cold."

"Well, I declare!" said Catalina, "I wouldn't have believed that! Well, run
and ask permission of Teresa."

And Teresa dressed us up as if we were going on a voyage to the North Pole
and gave us a thousand instructions. "Above all things don't 'dilly-dally'
on the way," she said. "The Breton was released from jail today, and you
may depend on it he will not be in a very good humor. What a shame that
Celestina should have such a terrible neighbor. You can never tell what a
man like that may do. If my rheumatism would only let me, I would gladly go
with you."

"What on earth would we do if we happened to meet the Breton?" I questioned
Paula, and terror began to grip my heart as we drew near the drunkard's
house.

"Don't you be afraid, Lisita," said Paula, taking my trembling hand in
hers.

Celestina received us with exclamations of surprise and delight.

Overcome with emotion, she said, "To think of your coming to see me through
all this terrible storm! I never would have expected you on such a day!"

We noticed a shade of sadness in her tone, and Paula questioned her as to
the reason.

The old lady shook her head. "No, there's nothing particular," she said;
"the Lord seems to heap good things upon me; but at times on nearing the
end of the journey the pilgrim gets a bit tired and longs for the blessed
final rest." Then she paused and turned to us once more with a smile. "And
you, young people, how goes the journey with you?"

"I too find," said Paula gravely, "that at times the way is difficult, but
as we put our hand in that of the Lord Jesus, He helps and strengthens us."

The old lady's eyes were full of amusement as she answered, "My, oh, me!
You talk as wisely as an old traveler who is about to finish his long
journey instead of being still at the bottom of the hill. And your uncle!
Has he begun to go with you yet?" "My uncle," and Paula hesitated, "at
least he permits us to serve the Lord."

"But he doesn't let you attend church yet?"

"No, but I think he will some day."

"Courage, Paula," said the old woman, "the Lord Jesus has said, 'Be thou
faithful unto death, and I will give thee the crown of life!' How happy I
shall be when your uncle permits you to attend with us. I know the Lord has
saved you and given you eternal life, and He will do exceeding abundantly
above all you can ask or think. I've learned to say to Him, 'Thy will be
done!' While here on this earth we're all students in His school. Sometimes
the hours are long and the bench is hard, but if we are attentive and apt
in the learning of our lessons, He is faithful, and oh, so generous in
giving us of His good things! Some things He's tried to teach me, but I'm
too dull yet to comprehend, but I do know that some day He'll let me see it
all quite clearly. For example, it's difficult to understand why He should
have given me the Breton and his children for neighbors. Do you know the
family?" she asked us.

"Oh, yes, indeed," said I; "I should say we did." This long conversation
had made me sleepy, but the mention of the Breton had brought me wide-awake
again.

"It I had known," continued the old lady, "that on the other side of the
partition I was to hear nothing but quarrels and fightings and cursing, I
would never have moved in here, but more that that, not content with
disturbing the peace from within his own apartment, he even comes over to
my side to torment me here in my small room. The Breton indeed is a
terrible man when he's drunk. I have tried to talk to him to see if I could
do something to change his evil ways, but so far all my efforts have been
useless."

I interrupted her to ask if she knew he had been liberated from the jail
that very day.

"Oh, yes," she said; "he made a terrible scene this morning bullying his
poor wife around. The poor soul is certainly worthy of our pity. But here I
am talking on and on without enquiring once as to Catalina's health."

"It was Catalina herself who sent us with this package for you," said
Paula. "For me!" cried the old lady. "What's all this?" and she nervously
untied the strings. Then as she saw the good warm dress, her eyes filled
with tears. "May the Lord bless the dear girl! He surely must have revealed
to her my need!"

"Would you mind, please, putting it on? Catalina wanted us to find out if
it fits you," I said.

The good woman nothing loath tried on the dress as she exclaimed, "My, oh
me, how handsome I am for once in my life, at least," and a merry twinkle
danced in old Celestina's eyes, "I'll have to keep this for Sunday wear
only."

"No," said Paula, "Catalina said to be sure to tell you it was for everyday
wear, for you see how it keeps out the cold."

"Well, then," said the old lady, "I suppose I must obey orders. But my, how
beautiful it is, too beautiful for the likes of me!" And Celestina stroked
the lovely cloth with her gnarled and withered fingers. "How very good the
dear Lord is! And now if you don't mind, let us pray together here to thank
Him for all His mercies." Celestina who could not kneel, placed her hands
on our bowed heads, and after a heartfelt prayer of thanks asked the Lord
to bless us each one and each member of our family, her neighbors, and
lastly herself.

Hardly had she finished when uncertain steps were heard coming down the
passage. The door suddenly burst open and a man staggered into the room.

"What's this you're doing?" he shouted.

"We're praying," the old woman answered tranquilly.

"No more praying then! Do you hear me? I forbid you!" he shouted again in
such a terrible voice that it was all I could do to keep from screaming
with fright "You know very well," said Celestina calmly, "that you cannot
prohibit my doing the thing that pleases me in my own house."

"And what pleasure do you get out of praying, tell me, you pious old
hypocrite!"

"Well, if you'll sit down calmly in that chair yonder, I'll answer your
questions."

"And suppose I don't care to sit down! Do I look as if I were tired?"

"Perhaps not, but when you visit your friends you should try to please
them, shouldn't you?"

"What! Do you count me as one of your friends?"

"And why not?"

"This is why!" and the Breton shook his great fist in the old lady's face.
"Oh, I'm a bad one I am! I could kill all three of you in a jiffy! Why, I
just finished a month in the jail for 'regulating' a fellow-worker at the
factory, and I don't mind doing another month for regulating you people!"
And the poor fellow's face was more terrible than his words, and I thought
our "time had come," as the saying is.

"Now, don't you be afraid," whispered Celestina, as she drew me close; "God
is with us; don't forget that!"

"Why do you wish to harm us?" she said aloud, fixing her eyes on the poor
drunken brute, in such a calm, loving and compassionate way that it seemed
to calm him a bit.

"We've done nothing against you, and I can't for the life of me see how we
could have offended you. I am glad they let you go free. Now if you care to
accept our hospitality I will make you a cup of coffee. It's not the best
quality but you're welcome to what I have."

The Breton looked at the old lady in an astonished sort of way. "You're
certainly different from the rest of 'em. Here I threaten to kill you, and
you offer me a cup of coffee! That's not what I deserve," and here he broke
out laughing immoderately, and sat down by the stove where a fire was
briskly burning.

"Well, this is a whole lot better than the prison anyway," said the Breton
coolly, as he settled himself to enjoy the warmth.

"I should say so," said Celestina, "and there's no reason for you to go
back there either."

"Now none of your sermons, you know, for if you come on with anything like
that I'll be leaving at once," and it was clear that the Breton's bad humor
was returning.

"Well, that would be to your disadvantage on a cold day like this," said
Celestina with a dry little smile.

"That's a fact, that's a fact. Brr! What weather!" and the poor drunkard
drew closer to the fire. "Aren't you two afraid to go out in such a
snowstorm?" he said, turning to Paula and me.

Celestina answered for us that we lived in the big house at "The Convent,"
and that we had come to deliver a good warm dress for her to wear. With
that the good woman poured out three cups of coffee, which she set before
the Breton, Paula and myself. "And where's yours?" said the Breton as he
swallowed his coffee in one great gulp.

"Oh, some other time I'll have a cup myself."

"Well, just as you please," said our unwelcome guest. "My! but that warms
one up though! My wife never so much as thought to get me a cup of coffee."

"And do you know why?" questioned Celestina severely.

"I suppose you're going to tell me it's because I don't give her enough
money; is that it?"

"Precisely! And that's the truth; isn't it?"

"Now none of your sermons, as I told you in the beginning; didn't I? Don't
I know? Of course it troubles me to see the children with their pale faces,
that used to be so rosy and fat like these two here. By the way what's your
names?"

Again Celestina answered for us--"The smaller girl is the daughter of
Monsieur Dumas, and the other is her cousin, Mademoiselle Paula Javanel."

"Paula Javanel! Paula Javanel!" repeated the Breton as if trying to
remember something. "I think I've heard that name before," and he looked
fixedly at Paula for some seconds, and then suddenly he laughed
immoderately. "Yes, yes; now I remember! Ha! ha! ha! Now I know! You're the
'Cat Mother'!"

"Cat Mother!" and Celestina looked much puzzled. "What on earth do you
mean?" I had completely forgotten the ridiculous nickname that the Breton's
son had given her, for the boy had run away from home several years ago.

"They called me that," explained Paula, "because I once saved a cat's
life."

But the strong coffee had quite restored the Breton's good humor and he
hastened to add, "Yes, she did; but she hasn't told the whole story! She's
the only person in the whole village that was ever brave enough to stand up
to that big brat of mine. She wrenched the cat out of his hands, and the
boy came back to the house, I remember well, with a pair of ears well
pulled and the air of a whipped dog."

"But I didn't pull his ears," said Paula, reddening.

"Well, if you didn't, who did, then?"

But Paula shook her head and would say nothing further.

"Well, anyway, I remember that the boy was made fun of by the whole
neighborhood, and to revenge himself he gave her 'Cat Mother' for a
nickname. He, too, is a bad one like his father. To tell the truth he never
obeyed anybody, and dear knows where he is or what he's doing now. At least
he's not like you two who came here to learn how to pray with Celestina."

"Paula doesn't need to learn how to pray, Monsieur Breton," said Celestina,
"she's known how to pray for years, not only for herself, but also for
others."

"For years, you say! And who then taught her to pray?" said the Breton
surprised.

"It was my father," said Paula quietly.

"Your father! Well, he wasn't much like me, then; was he!"

"No, he wasn't," and Paula without a sign of either fear or abhorrence
looked compassionately at the brutalized face that confronted her.

"And you don't live with him any more?"

"No," said Paula; "father is in heaven."

"And whatever would you do if you had a father like me?" and the poor
Breton looked at her keenly.

Paula sat a moment with closed eyes. She recalled the strong noble face and
figure of her dear father and asked God to give her a reply to the poor
drunkard's question.

"I think," she said at last, "I would ask God Himself to make him a man of
God like my father."

"And do you believe He could do it?" The Breton looked very doubtful.

"I'm sure of it!"

"Yes, but you don't know how bad I am."

"Yes, I know," said Paula; "everybody in town knows you're a bad man, but
you're no worse than the bandit who was crucified with the Lord Jesus; and
yet Christ saved him; didn't He?"

"That's more or less what I am--a bandit, I suppose. I remember that story.
When I was a little boy my mother told it to me. I never thought at that
time that I'd ever become the thing I am today. What would my poor mother
do if she could see what had become of me?"

"Perhaps she'd pray for you," Paula said simply.

"She! Yes, I think she would have prayed for me," he said. "But why talk
about my mother! I, who have just come out of prison;--hated, despised, and
made a laughingstock by everybody in our neighborhood, even pointed at by
the little street-urchins! My children fear me! My poor wife trembles when
I appear! Who would ever think of praying for a brute like me?"

"I," said Paula with a voice vibrant with emotion.

"You? Why you scarcely know me!"

"But I do know you, and I've prayed many times for you, Monsieur Breton. Do
you think it didn't distress me when they told me you had been put in the
prison where people say it's so cold and dark inside, and where many die
from the exposure, and what is the greater calamity--die without hope of
salvation."

"And so, while I was in prison you prayed for me?"

"Well, from the time I heard about it," said Paula, "I've prayed for you
every night, Monsieur Breton."

The poor fellow bowed his head. This young girl, so beautiful, so pure, so
innocent, had taken him and his shame, and misery and wickedness, to the
throne of Grace in her prayers each night during his recent stay in the
jail!

"You! You've been praying for me!" The Breton remained silent, overcome
with a greater remorse than he had ever felt in a court of justice.

"If I could believe," he said in a low voice, "that a man like me could
really change--but no! That's impossible! It's too late!"

"It's not too late," Celestina said, "God pardons sinners always if they
truly repent. Now you listen to what He says: 'Though your sins be as
scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red like crimson,
they shall be as wool.' And here's a bit more, 'Seek ye the Lord while He
may be found, call ye upon Him while He is near; let the wicked forsake his
way and the unrighteous man his thoughts; and let him return unto the Lord,
and He will have mercy upon him; and to our God for He will abundantly
pardon.' And then St. Paul gives us God's message also with these words:

"For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Saviour; who will
have all men to be saved, and to come unto the knowledge of the truth. For
there is one God, and one Mediator between God and men, the Man Christ
Jesus; who gave Himself a ransom for all" (1 Tim. 2:3-6).

"Do you really believe," said the Breton, as if in a daze, "that there's
hope for such as me?"

"Yes, I do, indeed!" And here Celestina quoted,

"The Lord is longsuffering to us-ward, not willing that any should perish,
but that all should come to repentance" (2 Pet 3:9).

But the poor Breton shook his head as if to say, "It's impossible!"

Here Paula broke in, "Ask pardon now, and Jesus will pardon you! Ask it
now! Surely you don't want to go on as you have done. The Lord loves you,
and is waiting to save you. He shed His blood on Calvary's cross to take
away the guilt of your sin. Then also, would it not be wonderful to always
have bread in the house--to see that your poor wife no longer fears you,
but instead, welcomes your homecoming. Ask Him now, Monsieur Breton, and
He'll work the miracle in you just as He did when He made the paralyzed man
to walk. You would be so much happier than you are now."

She had drawn very close to him, and now she took his great gnarled
hands--those hands that so many times had worn the handcuffs. Taking them
in her own beautiful ones, she raised those wonderful eyes to the brutal,
bloated face, and said simply, "We will help you, Monsieur Breton!"

"And what are you going to do, Mademoiselle?"

"I don't know yet, but we'll do what we can!"

The poor fellow tried to thank her, but could not utter a word. Something
in his throat seemed to be in the way, and in spite of all his efforts at
self-control, great tears began to run down his cheeks.

Suddenly he turned exclaiming, "Let me alone! Don't you see you're tearing
my very heart out! For thirty long years I've never shed a tear."

Here Celestina quoted Isa. 35:8,9,10: "And a highway shall be there, and a
Way; and it shall be called The Way of Holiness; the unclean shall not pass
over it, but it shall be for those: the wayfaring men, though fools, shall
not err therein. No lion shall be there, nor any ravenous beast shall go up
thereon, it shall not be found there; but the redeemed shall walk there:
and the ransomed of the Lord shall return, and come to Zion with songs and
everlasting joy upon their heads: they shall obtain joy and gladness, and
sorrow and sighing shall flee away."

But the Breton already had turned the door-handle,

"You're surely not going out yet!" said the old lady sadly.

"Celestina, I must go! If I stay one minute more I know I must yield, and
I'm not going to do anything foolish. No! No! I've served the devil too
long. But look here! If you wish to help me, then you can do one thing
anyway. You can pray for me!" Saying this, the poor Breton opened the door
and was gone.



CHAPTER THREE

SAVED!

That night on our return we poured into Teresa's sympathetic ears all that
had occurred during our eventful visit that afternoon at Celestina's house.
Then somewhat later as I was helping her with the dishes in the kitchen,
Teresa said, "Do you know, Lisita, it wouldn't surprise me in the least to
see the Breton converted and changed by God's power into a decent,
respectable man. No one seems to be able to resist Paula when she begins to
speak of God's love. She seems truly inspired by His Holy Spirit. Child
though she is, she surely is His messenger to all with whom she comes in
contact But there's just one thing,"--and Teresa seemed to hesitate to
express herself, then finally she continued, "I cannot seem to shake off
the feeling that she will not be with us much longer. I believe somehow--I
know it sounds absurd in one way, but I have a feeling that God will call
her to His side some day soon."

"Oh, Teresa!" I cried, "how can you say such a thing! Why, she's never
sick! She's much bigger and stronger and more vigorous than even I am. And
besides, I never, never could bear it to have Paula taken from me!"

"Hush! Hush, child! Don't shout that way, Paula will hear you! Besides it's
just a foolish idea of mine, maybe. But if God should wish it--But there,
as you say, what would we do without the dear girl?"

Later when we were alone in our bedroom I said to Paula in an anxious tone,

"You don't feel sick; do you, Paula?"

She looked at me surprised--"I should say not!" She laughed, "What put such
a notion in your head? Do I look as if I was sick?"

I was so relieved! Teresa was quite mistaken!

"No!" continued Paula, "on the contrary, I never felt better in my life.
Since I had that little touch of scarletina a while ago I've never had an
ache or a pain. In fact, as I look around and see so much sickness and
suffering, I long to share my good health with these other less fortunate
ones."

And as I looked at her tall well-developed figure outlined against the
window, I laughed at my foolish fears. But a few moments later as she
kneeled there in the moonlight in her long white night-dress, and as I
looked at that pure beautiful face with the eyes closed in prayer, with its
frame of glorious hair, I knew that never had I seen anything so lovely as
this child companion of mine just budding into womanhood; and the one word
"Angel" seemed to express the sum of my thoughts regarding this dear one
who had come into my life and who had transformed so many other lives
around me.

As she rose at the conclusion of the prayer, finding me still on my feet,
she said with surprise in her tone, "Not in bed yet, Lisita?"

"No," I said, confused that she should find me still seated on the edge of
my bed, lost in my own reflections.

Paula suddenly went to the window and looked out, "Oh, Lisita!" she
exclaimed, "how wonderful! Come and see."

The storm had stopped in the late afternoon, and now the moon shone in all
its splendor, touching the snow with silver and making millions of its
crystals sparkle like diamonds in the moonlight.

"How white and pure and beautiful everything is!" said Paula. "Do you
remember, Lisita, how only yesterday we remarked how squalid and dirty the
whole village looked? And now, what a lovely change!" She hesitated a
moment, and then continued in her quiet, simple way.

"It's God that has done it! It's quite a bit like when one gives their
heart to Jesus Christ. He takes it stained and scarred with sin, and then
He makes it white like the snow. Don't you see, Lisita?"

"Yes, I see," I said.

"Do you really see, dear Lisita?" And Paula drew me quite close to her.
"Then why don't you give your heart to Him? I do love you so! You see, I
don't wish to seem to be any better than you--but when I get thinking of
the fact that you never really have given your heart to Him, and if one of
us should die--"

I could not bear another word. The very idea of death either for Paula or
myself was simply unbearable. "Stop!" I cried, in such a terrible tone that
Paula, I could see, was frightened. "You mustn't die! I cannot live, and I
_won't_ live without you! I know I'm not good, but if you weren't here to
help me what would I do?"

My overwrought nerves, due to the happenings at that afternoon visit at
Celestina's, combined with what Teresa had suggested, were too much for me,
and here I broke down completely.

"Oh, Lisita!"--there was real consternation in Paula's voice, "I'm so sorry
I hurt you! You must get to bed, and don't let's talk any more tonight."

I dreamed of Paula the whole night long. I saw her either dying or dead, or
in heaven with the angels; but in the morning all my fears had disappeared
and a few days later I even forgot the whole thing.

A week passed, and we had seen nothing of the Breton. Paula mentioned him
several times, and I know she was praying for him. Teresa had gone to see
Celestina, but she hadn't seen anything of him either. Apparently he had
gone out early each day, and had returned very late. He had been the
principal subject of our conversation as each night we came together in the
big warm kitchen on those long winter evenings. Finally one evening just as
we were finishing the dishes, there came two hesitating knocks on the outer
door.

"I wonder who can be calling at this hour," said Rosa.

"It sounds like some child that can't knock very well," said Catalina.
"Open the door, Lisita!"

Only too glad to abandon my towel, I ran to open the door, but hardly had I
done so when I remained petrified and dumb with surprise, hardly able to
believe my own eyes. There stood the Breton twisting his battered cap
nervously between his bony fingers. The little oil lamp, which we always
kept lighted at night in the passageway, illuminated his pale face and
gaunt figure.

"Good evening, mademoiselle," he finally managed to say, and then he
stopped, apparently as embarrassed as I was.

"Who it is?" said Teresa, as she started to come to my rescue.

"It's the Breton," I said.

"Well, tell him to come in," said the old woman kindly.

As timidly as a child the Breton advanced over the threshold a few paces,
looking about him in a kind of "lost" way until his eyes encountered Paula,
and then he seemed to recover his ease of mind.

"I wish to speak with the Master," he said--directing his words to Teresa.

She led him into the study where my father sat, and left them together and
then joined us in the kitchen once more.

"I declare!" said Rosa. "Think of the Breton calling on us! I thought he
hated father since that day he discharged him from the factory two or three
years ago."

"The Breton knows very well that when your father got rid of him he well
deserved it," said Teresa, as she adjusted her spectacles and settled down
to her knitting.

My father did not keep him long. From the kitchen we could hear the door
open and my father's voice bidding the Breton a kindly "good night"
Evidently the interview, although short, had been quite a cordial one.

"Go, tell the Breton to come into the kitchen, Lisita," said Teresa.

I wondered as I saw him enter with such a humble, frank air, and with a new
look of peace that seemed almost to beautify the brutalized face.

"Mademoiselle Paula," he said as he stopped in the middle of our kitchen,
"I wish to say a word or two."

"To me alone?" said Paula rising.

He hesitated a moment. "No," he said finally, "I think it's better to say
it to you before everybody here. Do you remember how you spoke to me on the
afternoon of the great snow? I don't remember very well what you said. My
head wasn't in very good condition as I'd left my wits behind at the liquor
shop. But I know you spoke to me of my mother and you also said that God
would change me if I really desired. I didn't dare believe such a thing,
Mademoiselle--it seemed just a bit too good to believe. That night I simply
couldn't sleep. I seemed to feel my hands in yours and to hear your voice
saying, 'I'll do what I can to help you.' At last I couldn't stand it any
longer. I got out on the floor and kneeled there before God, and I asked
Him to have mercy on me, and change my wicked old heart if it were
possible."

Here he stopped to wipe away the great tears that were rolling down his
cheeks. Then pretty soon he continued, "God did indeed have mercy on me. I
deserved to be refused, but apparently He doesn't treat people as they
deserve to be treated, and now, mademoiselle, will you continue to help me
as you promised to do?"

"Yes, of course," said Paula; "What can we do for you?"

"Just one thing. Pray for me! That's what I need more than anything else. I
want to be faithful to Him and serve Him, but I don't know how to begin,
and when one has served the devil as many years as I have it's hard to
change masters."

"The Lord Jesus will help you," answered Paula.

"He's already done it, Mademoiselle," said the Breton. "If not, how could I
have endured these last days. At first I had a raging thirst for more drink
until I nearly went crazy. Then my old companions called me out and urged
me to go and drink with them, and I had almost yielded when suddenly I
cried to the Lord Jesus to help me, and then a wonderful thing happened!
All desire for the drink went away, and I've been free ever since! Then
too, I had no work, and my wife taunted me with that, and I wandered up and
down looking everywhere for something to do. Unfortunately everybody knew
me and knew too much about me, so there was no work for such as me." Then
suddenly the poor, thin face was illuminated with a smile as the Breton
triumphantly said, "I came to this door tonight as the very last resort,
never dreaming that my old master really would employ me, but just see the
goodness of God! I can face the world again, for I'm going back to my old
bench at the master's factory!"

"My! How glad I am!" exclaimed Paula.

"Yes, Mademoiselle, but I have you to thank for your great kindness to me."

"I," said Paula surprised; "why what have I done?"

"You, Mademoiselle! You made me feel that you really loved me. Also, you
persuaded me that God loved me, miserable sinner that I am. But if tonight
in this district you find one more honorable man and one criminal less, let
us first thank God, and then you, Mademoiselle!"

"Do you own a New Testament?" said Paula as the Breton started to leave.

"A New Testament; what's that?"

"It's a book--a part of the Bible--that tells us about the Lord Jesus, and
how He saves us from the guilt and power of sin, and how we can serve Him."

"Well, Mademoiselle," replied the Breton, "if it's a book, it's of no use
to me. I don't know how to read!"

Paula looked at him with a mixture of surprise and pity.

"I might have been able to read," continued the poor fellow. "My mother
sent me to school, but I scarcely ever actually appeared in the
school-room. The streets in those days were too attractive a playground."

"But you could begin to learn even now!"

"No, Mademoiselle," and the Breton shook his head sadly, "It's too late now
to get anything of that sort in this dull head."

Paula said nothing more at the time, but I could see that she had something
in her mind relative to this new problem.



CHAPTER FOUR

THE YOUNG SCHOOL-MISTRESS

The following day Paula had a word with my father regarding the matter.

"Now don't worry any more about the Breton, Paula," he answered. "He knows
enough to do what's necessary to gain his living, and if he wants to work
faithfully and not spend all his money on drink, he can do that without
knowing how to read. However, if it bothers you because he cannot read, why
don't you advise him to go to night-school? I can't imagine what could have
happened to him, but he's changed mightily, and for the better. I only hope
the change in him will last!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The days grew longer, the snow disappeared and the trees and fields began
to put on their spring clothes. Week by week the Breton's home also began
to show a marvelous transformation. The pigs who formerly found the garden
a sort of happy rooting-ground now found themselves confronted with a neat
fence that resisted all their attacks, and the garden itself with its
well-raked beds, showed substantial promise of a harvest of onions,
potatoes and cabbage in the near future. Spotless white curtains and shiny
panes of window-glass began to show in place of the dirty rags and paper
which used to stop part of the winter winds from entering, and the rain
which formerly kept merry company with the wind in that unhappy dwelling
now found itself completely shut out by shingles on the roof and sidewalk;
and a certain air of neatness and order so pervaded the whole place that it
became the talk of the little town.

"That's all very well, but it's not going to last long," said some.

"Well, we shall soon see," said others.

The Breton had to stand a good many jests and taunts from his former
companions but he took it all without either complaint or abatement of his
courage.

"I don't blame you one bit," he said to one of his tormentors, "for I was
once exactly the same--only I hope some day you'll be different too. In the
meantime, comrade, I'll be praying for you."

"You must admit I'm a changed man, anyway," he said one day to a group who
made sport of him.

"That's true, right enough," said one of them.

"Well, who changed me?"

Various opinions were offered to this question.

"Well, I'll tell you!" he thundered, and that stentorian voice which always
used to dominate every assembly in which he mingled, held them spellbound!

"It was the Lord Jesus Christ. He died for me--yes, and He died for every
one of you. He shed His blood on Calvary's cross to keep every man from
hell who surrenders to Him in true repentance. Then He does another thing!
His Holy Spirit takes away the bad habits of every man who surrenders to
Him. He said once, 'If the Son shall make you free, ye shall be free
indeed!' Now you look well at me! You know what a terrible temper I had.
You've tried your best in these past weeks to make me angry but you haven't
succeeded. That's a miracle in itself. You can say what you like to me now
but you won't make me lose my temper. That's not to my credit, let me tell
you! It's God Himself who's done something that I don't yet clearly
understand. The money I earn, I dump it all in the wife's lap, for I know
she can handle it better than I can! Then there's another thing! When I get
up in the morning now, I ask God to help, and He does it. When I go to bed
at night, I pray again. Let me tell you, if I should die I'll go to heaven,
and there I'll meet my dear old mother, for it's not what I've done, it's
what _He's_ done! It isn't that I'm any better than any of you. No! There
isn't one of you as bad as I was," he continued, "but if God was able to
change and pardon a beast like me, He can surely do the same with all of
you. So what I say is, why don't you all do just the same as I've done?
Surrender yourselves into Christ's hands!"

Little by little, seeing it was useless to try to bring the Breton back
into his old ways, his tormentors were silenced at least, and a life of new
activities commenced for the former drunkard.

"You certainly appear to be quite happy," said Paula, as we passed the
Breton's garden one evening where he was whistling merrily at his work.

"I certainly am that," said he, raising his head. "There's just one weight
on my heart yet, however."

"And what's that?" Paula's voice was sympathetic.

"It's that I cannot read."

"But I didn't think that that fact interested you very much."

"Yes, I know, Mademoiselle, but I didn't comprehend what I had lost, but
now I'd give my left hand if I could only read."

"Poor Breton," I said. It seemed to me we were a bit helpless before such a
problem.

"It isn't that I want to become a fine gentleman, and all that"; and the
Breton turned to address me also--"It's simply that I want to be able to
read the Great Book that tells about God and His Son Jesus Christ. Also I
would like to help my children that they might have a better chance than
hitherto I have given them. But there you are! I'm just a poor ignorant
man, and I suppose I always shall be."

"Well," said Paula, "why don't you attend the night school?"

"No, Mademoiselle," and the Breton shook his head; "that's all very well
for the young fellows who have learned a little something and wish to learn
a bit more. But me!--at my age!--and I don't even know the letter A from B,
and I have such a dull head that I would soon tire out the best of
teachers."

"Well, supposing I tried teaching you?" said Paula timidly.

"You, Mademoiselle!" cried the Breton stupefied, "you to try such a thing
as to teach me!"

"And why not, if my uncle should let me?"

"Well, Mademoiselle, that would be different. I believe that with you to
teach me I might be able to learn," and the Breton leaned on his spade for
a moment.

"You are so good and kind and patient, I would not be afraid of your making
fun of my stupid efforts. But there, there's no use thinking about such a
thing, for I'm sure the master would never permit it."

        *        *        *        *        *

In fact, it did take a good deal to persuade my father, but Paula won his
permission at last.

The Breton came every Saturday night Teresa complained a bit at first,
seeing her kitchen turned into a night-school for such a rough ignorant
workman, but "for Jesus Christ's sake," as Paula said, she had finally
become resigned to it.

It was both pathetic and comical to see the efforts which the poor Breton
made as he tried to follow with one great finger the letters which his
young teacher pointed out to him. He stumbled on, making many mistakes but
never discouraged. Sometimes the sweat poured from him when the task
appeared too great for him. At such times he would put his head in his
hands for a moment, and then with a great sigh he would start again.

At the end of a month he had learned the alphabet and nothing more, and
even then he would make mistakes in naming some of the letters.

"Oh, let him go!" said Teresa; "He's like myself. He'll never, never
learn."

But Paula's great eyes opened wide.

"Why! I simply can't abandon him unless he should give it up himself.
Besides, have you forgotten, Teresa, what it cost me to learn to sew? But
in the end I did learn; didn't I?"

So Teresa was silenced. But once the Breton had conquered this first
barrier to learning his progress was truly surprising. In the factory his
"primer" was always with him. At lunch hours he would either study alone,
or he'd persuade a fellow-worker more advanced than himself to help him
with his lesson. Paula was astonished to see how quickly she could teach
him a verse in the New Testament or a Waldensian hymn she had learned in
the valley back home.

Nevertheless a week or two later she noticed that he seemed to be a bit
distraught, and she feared he was getting weary of his task.

"What's the matter?" she finally asked him.

"Oh, nothing," and the Breton grinned rather sheepishly.

"Tell me, Breton, what's on your mind?"

He "guffawed" loudly as he replied. "You'd make fun of me sure, if I told
you--and with good reason!"

"I never make fun of anybody," said Paula reproachfully.

"No, Mademoiselle, I ought to know that better than anybody else! Well,
perhaps it might be well to tell you. If you must know it, it's this. There
are many, I find, that wish they could be in my place tonight"

"In your place tonight! I'm afraid I don't understand," said Paula.

"Well, you see, I've got four or five of my old comrades who also want to
learn to read."

"What's that you say?" Teresa said, leaving her knitting to stand in front
of the Breton.

"It's true enough, Mademoiselle Teresa, and when you come to think of it,
it's not a bit strange. Down at the factory they all know how different and
how happy I am. And how they _did_ make fun of me when I started to learn
to read; just as they jeered at me when Jesus Christ first saved me and I
learned to pray. But now some of them, seeing how happy I am, also want to
learn to read, and who knows but some day they will want to know how to
pray to the Lord Jesus also."

Paula's face took on a serious expression--finally, however, she slowly
shook her head.

"You know, with all my heart, I'd just love to see it done; but it's
perfectly useless, I suppose, even to think of it," she said sadly.

"That's what I thought too," said the Breton; "I'm sorry I spoke about it"

"Well, I don't know," continued Paula. "Perhaps if uncle could arrange
somehow--I remember when I was quite small, back there before I left the
valley, my dear god-mother had a night-school for laboring men. It was just
lovely. They learned to read and to write and to calculate. Then
afterwards, each night before they went home they would sing hymns and read
the Bible and pray."

"Yes, that's all very well," said Teresa, "but your godmother was a whole
lot older than you are."

Then turning to the Breton she said, "Why don't you tell your friends to go
to the night-school in town?"

"Well," said the Breton, "I know that they learn 'many things there, but
they don't teach them about God. However, as I said before, I'm sorry I
mentioned the thing. Let's not speak any more about it"

"Well," said Paula, "I know what I'm going to do. I'll speak to the Lord
Jesus about it."

And Paula kept her promise.

One morning, Teresa usually not at all inquisitive, could not seem to keep
her eyes off a certain little group who were engaged in moving out of one
of the "Red Cottages" across the road. More than once she paused in her
work of tidying up the house to peer out of one window or another.

"That's the very best of all the 'Red Cottages,' and they're moving out of
it" remarked Teresa finally.

"Of what importance is that?" I said to her rather sharply. I was washing
windows, and that task always made me irritable.

"I've got a certain idea!" Teresa said.

"Tell me your big idea," I said.

"No! You go ahead and wash your windows. I'll tell you tomorrow."

The next day I had forgotten Teresa and her "idea." As I started for school
she called after me, "Tell Mademoiselle Virtud, your teacher, that I want
to see her just as soon as possible I have to speak to her about
something."

In a flash I remembered what had happened the day before, and I guessed at
once her secret.

"Teresa!" I cried, "I've got it now! You want Mademoiselle Virtud to occupy
the house across the road. Oh, that'll be just wonderful!"

Teresa tried to put on her most severe air, but failed completely.

"Well, supposing that's not so!" she said, as with a grin she pushed me out
of the door.

Mademoiselle Virtud came over that very afternoon. I hadn't been mistaken.
She and Teresa went immediately across the road to see the empty house, the
owner having left the key with us. At the end of a half-hour they returned.

"It's all arranged," and Teresa beamed. "She's coming to live here right
across the road. I've thought of the thing for a long time, and now at last
the house I wanted is empty. Monsieur Bouch has promised to fix the fence
and put a new coat of paint on the house, and with some of our plants
placed in the front garden, it will be a fitting place for your dear
teacher and her Gabriel to live in."

"You'll certainly spoil us!" said Mlle. Virtud. "What a joy it will be to
leave that stuffy apartment in town. And Gabriel is so pale and weak! This
lovely air of the open country will make a new boy of him!"

It was a wonderful time we had, arranging things before our new neighbors
moved in. Teresa bought some neat linen curtains for the windows of the
little house. Paula and I gathered quantities of flowers from our garden
and placed them over the chimney-piece, and on the bedroom shelves and in
the window-seats--and how the floors and windows did shine after we had
finished polishing them!

When our teacher arrived in a coach with Gabriel packed in among the usual
quantity of small household things of all kinds, great was her gratitude
and surprise to find, in the transformed house, such signs of our care and
affection for her. It was indeed the happiest moving day that could
possibly be imagined. There wasn't a great quantity of furniture, and in an
hour or so after our new neighbors' arrival we had everything installed in
its proper place, to say nothing of the bright fire burning in the tiny
grate and the kettle singing merrily above it. One would hardly have
dreamed that it had been an empty house that very morning. Even Louis who
had come home for a week-end holiday had sailed in and worked with us in
putting the little cottage in order.

That night the newly-arrived tenants ate with us, after which Louis carried
Gabriel pick-a-back to his new home across the road.

Our teacher's prophecy regarding Gabriel was a correct one. Day by day he
grew stronger. Teresa looked out for him during school-hours, and with his
bright happy ways he soon became a great favorite with the neighborhood
boys.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Tell me, Paula," said my father one evening, "how is the new pupil coming
on?"

"Which new pupil?" our cousin said as she came and stood by my father's
chair, where he sat reading his paper.

"The Breton, of course. Surely you haven't more than one pupil?"

"For the present, no!" she answered, with a queer little smile on her quiet
face.

"For the present, no." repeated my father; "and what may that mean?"

Paula rested her cheek against the top of my father's head.

"Dearest uncle," she said, "will you please grant me a great favor?"

"Now, what?" said my father--and the stern, serious face lighted up with a
smile.

"You see, the Breton has almost learned to read, and it would be just
splendid if some of his old comrades and his two sons could learn too."

"Oh, Paula, Paula!" said my father--"where is all this going to end?"

But Paula was not easily daunted, especially when the thing asked for was
for the benefit of other people.

"Now, why won't you let me teach them, dear uncle?" She came and kneeled at
my father's feet, and took both his hands in hers.

"But you're only a very young and very little student, Paula. You must be
taught yourself before you can teach others." My father's voice was very
tender, but firm as well, and it didn't look to me as if Paula would win.
She said nothing in reply, but stayed kneeling there at his feet with those
great appealing eyes of hers fixed on his face.

"We shall see, we shall see," said my father gently, "when you've finished
your own studies. Besides I think you're reasonable enough to see that such
a task along with your studies would be too big a burden for a child like
you. I could not let you take this up."

"I suppose you're right, dear uncle," said Paula humbly, as she rose and
rested her head against my father's shoulder, "and yet if you could only
know how happy it would make the Breton and his comrades. And besides," she
added, "I had fondly hoped that if I could have taught them, they would
learn much about the Lord Jesus and take Him as their Saviour, as the
Breton has done."

"You seem to think of nothing but how to serve your 'Lord Jesus,'" and
there was a wistful sort of tone in my father's voice.

"Well, am I not His servant?"

"No!" said my father, "I'd call you a soldier of His, and one that's always
under arms!"

"That's because I have such a wonderful, such a kind, and such a powerful
Captain. I wish everybody might come to know Him! And to know Him is to
love Him!"

There followed a moment of silence, so solemn, so sweet, that it seemed as
if a Presence had suddenly entered, and I personally felt my soul in that
moment suddenly lifted toward God as it had never been before. And as I
looked at Paula standing so humbly there her eyes seemed to say: "Oh, my
uncle, my cousin, would that you, too, might love Him and receive Him as
the Saviour of your soul!"

"Listen, Paula," my father said; "will you leave the Breton and his friends
and his sons in my hands for the present?"

Paula looked at him searchingly for a moment, as if trying to find out what
was in his mind.

"Of course!" she finally said.

"Well, then, just rest content. I'll try to see the thing through somehow.
If I'm not very much mistaken, these protegs of yours will have very
little to complain of."

"Oh, uncle dear!" shouted Paula, delighted, "what are you planning to do?"

"I don't know yet exactly, but I've thought of something. No! No! Don't try
to thank me for anything, for I don't know how it will come out. But," he
smiled as he laid his hand on Paula's head, "you certainly have a method of
asking for things that I don't seem to find any way to refuse you."



CHAPTER FIVE

THE NIGHT SCHOOL

For the first time in my life a great secret had been confided to me. Of
course, I felt quite proud that they had considered me important enough to
be a sharer of the secret. But my! What a struggle it was not to tell
Paula!

In a few days it would be Paula's fifteenth birthday, and the whole family
seemed endued with the same idea, to make it an especially happy and
unforgettable occasion.

Paula must have suspected something with all the coming and going; the
whispering and smothered giggles in corners, etc., but she wasn't the kind
to pry into other people's affairs, and so, no matter what she may have
thought, she kept her own counsel.

On the morning of the great day, which to our great satisfaction, came on a
Sunday, Paula was quite a bit surprised to find that Mlle. Virtud and
Gabriel had been invited over to breakfast; but aside from that occurrence
there was nothing unusual as yet to indicate that we were celebrating
Paula's birthday.

When the meal was finished, however, my father folded up his napkin, and
with an air of mock gravity said, "Why, let me see, this is Paula's
birthday; isn't it? I suppose Paula's been wondering why there were no
gifts piled up on her plate. You see, Paula, we've all combined on the one
gift, but it's too big to put on the dining-table. However, it's not far
away. Let's all go and have a look at it together."

He led the way out of the house and across the road, and we all followed.

I presume the neighborhood received quite a shock of surprise to see such a
procession of folks coming out of the big house. Many came and stood in
their front door-yards to view the unusual sight, for instance, of Louis
with his arm linked in that of our old servant Teresa, and Paula herself on
our father's arm, and the rest of us strung out behind.

We finally stopped in front of Mlle. Virtud's newly-painted little house,
with its tiny garden in front in all the splendor of its spring dress.

"Come in, Paula," said our teacher of former days. "Your present is in here
in this front room."

We all followed after Paula, eager to see the result of her inspection of
the "present."

Paula took one step, and then stopped on the threshold.

"What do you think of your birthday present, Paula?" said my father. "Do
you think the Breton and his comrades will be content to come here to study
and to leam to sing, etc., in this room?"

"Oh, uncle dear!" and that was all she could say as she embraced and kissed
him with a gratitude we all knew well was too deep for mere words to
express.

Suddenly Louis pulled her hair a bit, saying, "Well, how about the rest of
us. Aren't you going to thank us too? There are a lot of folks here that
have had a share in this business."

Paula gave him a smile in which she included all of us in her thankful joy
and gratitude.

"Why!" said Paula, "this was the room everybody thought was useless, and
which was in such bad condition that the landlord didn't think it
worthwhile to fix up!"

"Yes," said my father; "it's the very room. I confess one would hardly
recognize it, but when Monsieur Bouch understood what it was to be used
for, he went to unusual trouble to fix it properly. You'll have to thank
him especially, Paula. He has a reputation of being not always so amiable."

"I will take him a lovely bunch of flowers," said Paula.

"Humph!" said Louis, "I'm sure I don't know what he'd do with them. He
doesn't often get flowers from his tenants."

Paula walked about the room as in a dream, examining everything.

The table in the center had been loaned by Dr. Lebon. The lovely red
curtains were a present from Mlle. Virtud. Rosa and Louis had given the two
long benches on each side of the table. My father had given the
school-books, and I had bought pencils and copy-books from my monthly
allowance. It was all very simple and severe, but to Paula's eyes these
gifts brought together in the little whitewashed room seemed to her quite
wonderful.

"Look up there," said Louis, "you haven't seen that yet," and Paula saw
hanging from the ceiling a fine new lamp to which a white paper seemed to
be tied. Louis reached up and took down the paper for her, and she read as
follows: "In great gratitude from the Breton."

"Now, look here," said Louis, "you don't need to weep over it! The Breton
is only grateful for all you've done for him. Thanks to you, he's been able
to save up a little money lately instead of spending it all on drink.

"Now, look here," he continued, "you don't need to weep to an elaborately
embroidered motto on the wall containing the Lord's words to the weary ones
of earth. 'Come unto Me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will
give you rest.'"

"Oh, it's all too much!" said Paula completely overcome. "How can I thank
you all for what you've done?"

"Your gratitude and happiness is sufficient reward for us," said my father.
"I don't know what put the idea in our heads. I suppose you will say it was
God, and perhaps you are right. All I know is that I spoke to Mlle. Virtud
of your desire to have a night-school for the Breton and his friends, and
then spoke to others about it and--well, now you've seen the result. You
owe most of your thanks to Mlle. Virtud who brought the thing about and
gave us the use of the room."

"Which room," said Mlle. Virtud, with a dry little smile, "had no value
whatsoever, you'll remember."

"And another thing," said my father, "she is the one who has taken over the
responsibility of the night-school. Otherwise I could not have permitted
you to take up such a task. Then Rosa is going to help when she can, and
Lisita has an idea she can do something also."

"And I," said Louis, "where do I come into the picture?"

With a grin my father turned to his son, "That's where you're only in the
background for once."

It was decided, in accord with Mlle. Virtud, to have classes twice a week.
Thursdays would be for reading, writing and arithmetic, and Sundays would
be a time for learning songs and for putting their studies into practice by
reading in the Bible, and, for what several had been asking, namely, to
learn how to pray.

If the Breton was a model scholar, this could not be said of his two
younger sons. These boys appeared to be much below the average in natural
intelligence, besides the fact that their ordinary educational
opportunities had, as in the case of Joseph, their older brother, been
decidedly neglected. Their father had compelled them to attend the
"night-school," but apparently they didn't seem to grasp what it was all
about. Without any apparent cause they both would suddenly duck down below
the table to hide their merriment. Whatever story, no matter how
interesting, was read aloud, they didn't appear to comprehend a word of it,
and if a chapter from the Bible was read they either showed elaborate signs
of boredom or else they would doze in their seats. Paula would gaze at them
sadly--her young heart was grieved at such colossal indifference.

The three comrades of the Breton, however, were decidedly different, taking
up their studies with great eagerness and listening well to everything that
was read aloud.

"It's a whole lot better here than spending our money at the liquor shop,"
they would say with a smile of satisfaction.

"I'll say so," the Breton would chime in. "I'll tell you what, comrades, if
I'd known only before all that one gains in Christ's service, I would have
started long ago on this new life with Him."

The happiest and most beloved of all in the school was Gabriel. He was so
happy that he was able to come in and study with the others; and when it
came to singing, his marvelously fresh and clear tones outclassed them
all--that is, all but one.

I seem to hear yet those lovely hymns that were sung with such sincerity
and heartiness--but the voice that rang clear and true above all others is
now mingling its notes with the choirs of heaven.



CHAPTER SIX

THE HOUSE OF GOD

It was vacation time--in August. Teresa said she had never seen a dryer or
a hotter summer in her whole existence. Gabriel and his sister had gone to
visit their family in the country and we had our usual "red letter" time at
Grandmother Dumas' house. We had returned from our visit greatly
refreshed--all except Paula, who seemed to have lost somewhat of that
perpetual happiness which, when she appeared on the scene had always been
such a tonic to us all. She had tried her best not to show it, but she gave
us all the impression that she tired very quickly.

"I think the reason you tire so soon is because you're growing so quickly,"
said Teresa. Paula laughed and said that that wasn't her fault.

One morning my father seemed to be looking at her more intently than usual.
He finally said, "You're not feeling well; are you, Paula?"

"I'm all right, dear uncle," she said. "Sometimes I get a bit tired. I
think it must be the heat."

"But, my dear child, you hardly eat anything at all, and you've lost those
roses in your cheeks."

He still continued looking at her--then suddenly he said, "I'll tell you
one thing that I think would please you very much. Do you know what that
would be?"

"What, sir?" and Paula seemed to regain all her usual animation.

"I think," said my father slowly in a low voice as if talking to himself,
"I think you"--and he paused a moment--"What would you say if you were to
go to church with Celestina on Sundays?"

"Oh, dear uncle, could I really go?" Paula jumped to her feet excitedly.

"Yes, I think I'll let you go--and"--again he hesitated a bit--"if Teresa,
Rosa and Lisita wish to, they may go along too."

"And you, dear uncle, will you not come with us?" questioned Paula, as she
looked into the sad, stern face that had softened considerably of late.

"We shall see, we shall see. But you'd better not count on me. My, oh, me!
Just see! Those roses have all come back again!"

"Well, but you don't know how happy you've made me!" said Paula as she
fairly danced out of the house with me to tell the news to Celestina.

"Well," said Celestina, "all I can say is that the Lord heard my prayers
and yours, dear Paula. It's the great weapon of the weak and needy, and in
fact can be the power to serve all and anyone who will surrender themselves
and all they are into the hands of the Saviour."

We had seated ourselves near the door of her little cottage. Something in
the deep tones of the old lady's voice seemed to search my very heart. We
always enjoyed listening to this old saint who, like Enoch and Noah, walked
with God. We seemed to be drawn closer to God in her humble little cottage
than in any other place.

"You see," she continued, "I'm old and quite feeble, and besides I'm poor,
and can't do very much for other folks; but there's one thing I can do, and
that is, pray. And I do pray for everybody--and especially for you and your
family, my dear young friends. God doesn't let me see many results of my
prayers, but that doesn't discourage me. I just keep everlastingly at it,
and I can leave the results to Him. Has He not said, through the mouth of
His Apostle John, 'This is the confidence that we have in Him, that if we
ask anything according to His will, He heareth us, and if we know that He
hear us, whatsoever we ask, we know that we have the petitions that we
desired of Him.'

"I remember once hearing a certain hymn about prayer. I never could
remember all the verses, but most of it has remained deeply engraved in my
memory although I only heard it once. It was sung by a young missionary
from Africa who happened to be passing through Paris. It was at a meeting
which I attended as a young girl many years ago."

"Please sing it to us, dear Celestina," said Paula, "even though you may
not remember it all."

"Well, my dear young friends," said Celestina, "that old hymn has been my
comfort and the inspiration of my prayers through all the years since I
heard it sung so long ago in Paris where I lived when I was young. Here it
is"; and as those quavering notes sounded we seemed lifted toward that
heavenly Throne of which she sang.

  On heavenly heights an Angel stands.
  He takes our prayer in heavenly hands,
  And with celestial incense rare,
  He mingles every heart-felt prayer
  Of those who trust His precious blood
  To reconcile their souls to God.

  "Then from that glorious, heavenly place
  Descend the lightnings of His grace;
  To heal, to strengthen, and provide,
  For those who trust in Him Who died.
  'Who died,' I say?--Yea, He Who rose
  Triumphant, Conqueror of His foes!

  "Who is this priestly Angel bright,
  Who thus dispels our darkest night?
  'Tis He who sets the captive free,
  Jesus Who died on Calvary's tree;
  Who is, Who was, and is to come--
  The glory of His Father's Home!

"Well," said Paula softly as the last note died away, "I've prayed much for
my dear uncle that he might be saved."

"And God will hear and answer you, my dear, according to the scripture I've
just quoted. Let me tell you something. Your uncle came here to see me a
few days ago, and I believe he is not far from the Kingdom of God!"

"Oh," cried Paula, "I would give everything to see him truly saved!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Never had I seen Paula so happy as when we entered the little old
evangelical church in the Rue San Eloi.

We had had the natural timidity of new-comers, and had feared more than
anything else that battery of eyes which would surely be turned on us at
our entrance. It was therefore a great relief to find that the meeting had
already begun, and an empty pew well toward the back that held us all,
seemed to beckon to us with a sort of mute welcome.

Hardly were we seated when I noticed Paula (who had of course been
accustomed to church-going at her old home in the valley) had kneeled, and
with her eyes closed seemed to be offering a prayer. This was soon ended
and she resumed her seat. It was all so new to me that I could not at first
take in much of the details of the service.

The preacher had a fine noble face which seemed to light up especially as
the hymns were heartily sung by the whole congregation.

Perhaps it was my imagination, but it seemed to me that a quiet smile of
approval passed over his face as his eyes rested on Paula who so fervently
joined in the songs--all of which seemed quite familiar to her.

It was an affecting thing, that vision of my girl companion. In her white
dress with its blue sash at the waist, and with her wide white straw hat,
she made a lovely picture. In that frank open countenance I think I read
her thoughts. Here in God's house she had entered once more the Promised
Land from which she had been exiled for four long years!

Suddenly the sun came from behind a cloud, especially designed, I thought,
to send a ray of rose-colored light through one of the stained-glass
windows of the church over that beautiful face at my side which now showed
only rapt attention to the simple gospel message saturated with God's Word
that flowed like a mighty river from the preacher's lips.

As we came through the door on our way out, I caught a glimpse of my
father's tall form just disappearing around a bend in the Rue San Eloi. I
think he must have stolen up to the door and had been listening outside!



CHAPTER SEVEN

IN HIS PRESENCE

At times I have wished to efface from my mind the memory of those last
moments that Paula was with us. Yet as I think of the dwelling to which she
has gone, and also the manner in which she went--in the path of duty--to
the House of Glory, as a good soldier of the Cross, I bless God and kneel
in gratitude to Him for having loaned her to us for those four precious
years when He used her to bring us all to the bleeding side of the Saviour,
and thus make us new creatures in Christ Jesus.

     *       *       *       *       *

It was on the Wednesday after that Sunday when we had first attended
church. It had been a day of terrible heat. The oppressive atmosphere
seemed to promise an electric storm. Louis who had forgotten a study book
when he went to school on Monday, had returned to get it. Paula had tried
to study, but I could see she was having great difficulty.

Suddenly Teresa appeared and called Paula to take a letter which my father
wished to send to a man who lived in the Rue Fourmi.

"Go quickly, Paula, there's a storm brewing, but I think you can easily get
back before it breaks. The Rue Fourmi is not far away."

Paula had no time to answer before Teresa disappeared again to the other
end of the house.

Paula turned to Louis, who was about to start out for his uncle's house,
where he stayed during the week in order to be near his school.

"Louis dear," she said, "won't you please take this letter on your way back
to your uncle's house?"

"No," said Louis sharply; "I never go that way."

"No, I know that; but it would only be a few steps out of your way to leave
it there, and--well--you see--I have quite a headache."

"Teresa told you to take the letter, not me. A fig for your headache! It's
only that you're too lazy to stir!" said Louis.

"Louis!" I shouted, "You ought to be ashamed of yourself! You know well
enough Paula's always willing to do anything for anybody! I'd go myself,
but I simply can't leave what I'm doing now. If Teresa had remembered, she
would have given you the letter and you know it! If you don't take it, I'll
tell father!"

"Do as you please," said Louis coolly. "I'll not be bothered with it!"

I was furious and couldn't keep back the angry tears that now began to roll
down my cheeks.

"Never mind, Lisita," said Paula, as she ran for her hat. Then as she went
through the door she turned for a last look at Louis, "Won't you please
take it, Louis?" she said.

"No!" said Louis--"and that's that!" and he turned his back to Paula.

"Good-bye, Louis dear!" she finally said without the least show of anger,
as she left the house. "We'll be seeing you again on Saturday."

She ran down the street quickly in order to return before the gathering
storm broke.

Louis followed shortly to return to his uncle's, whistling cheerfully as he
went; but his cheerfulness seemed to me to be a little too exaggerated to
be real.

After I'd finished my task I sought out Teresa at the other end of the
great house.

"Paula has a bad headache," I said.

"Why didn't she tell me that?" said Teresa. "I'd have sent Louis, but I
didn't think of it at the time"

I opened my mouth to say something, and then I shut it again. I had begun
slowly to learn from Paula's example not to be a "tattle-tale."

Meanwhile the sky grew darker. Suddenly Teresa said,

"I don't know what's keeping Paula, Here, Lisita! Take this umbrella and go
and meet her. I'm afraid she'll be caught in the rain before she gets
back."

I soon found her as she turned in at the bottom of the Rue Darnetal. "We
must hurry," she said as the thunder began to mutter in the distance.
Hardly had she spoken when a flash of lightning almost blinded us. This was
followed almost immediately by a great crash of thunder that seemed to
shake the very ground under our feet. Then came a sound of confused shouts
as if something had happened at the other end of a cross street that we
were passing. Could it be a house had been struck by the lightning? No, the
shouts increased and changed to cries of terror. Soon we guessed the cause,
as we heard a rushing sound of galloping horses, which, frightened by the
flash and the clap of thunder, came in sight around a bend in the street
enveloped in a cloud of dust, dragging a heavy wagon behind them.
Instinctively Paula retreated to a protecting doorway and I huddled in
terror close beside her.

"Lisita!" she called suddenly. "Look! look!" What I saw was something that
seemed to freeze my blood! Directly in the pathway of the onrushing horses,
totally unconscious of his danger, was a little boy of about three years
old toddling along in the middle of the road. One instant more and it would
have been all over! Suddenly Paula left our shelter like a shot from a gun.
Then I heard a sharp cry that rent the air like a knife, and then--I can
remember little more--just a confusion of people running hither and
thither, and then for me all was darkness, but in that darkness I seemed to
hear still that piercing cry of anguish.

     *       *       *       *       *

When I came back to consciousness I found myself on the sofa in our
dining-room, with Catalina bathing my face and hands with cold water.

"Where's Paula?" I cried, for I remembered at once that terrible scene in
the Rue Darnetal.

"Paula is in her room," said Catalina, turning her head to hide the tears
that would come in spite of all her efforts.

I tried to rise and go to our room.

"Stay where you are, Lisita!" said Catalina. "You may go a bit later when
you're feeling stronger."

But now a terrible suspicion crossed my mind. "Catalina," I cried, almost
beside myself with fear, "tell me the truth! Is Paula dead?"

"No, Lisita; Paula's not dead," as she tried in vain to detain me; "She is
still breathing--and"--but I heard nothing more. My legs trembled strangely
as I stumbled toward our bedroom. Once there, again that terrible darkness
started to come over me, but it was only a momentary weakness. With an
effort I steadied myself as I came near the bed where my dearest one lay so
still--that lovely face so white, the lips slightly parted with just a
faint stirring of the breath.

The room was full of people, some weeping silently, some trying to choke
back their sobs. Others, like my father and Dr. Lebon, with an agony
showing on their faces much more terrible than any tears.

All this I saw as in a horrible dream from which I hoped to awake at any
moment. But, no!--I soon realized it was all too true. This was the first
real grief of my life, and I had to sustain it alone for I had not yet
yielded to Him who sends comfort to His children in their time of anguish.
He did take pity on me, however. In the next room I hid my grief in
Teresa's arms--Teresa, who more than anyone else, knew the love that had
united me to Paula.

"Oh, Teresa," I cried, when I found myself alone with her, "she must not
die! She must not! I simply cannot live without her, you know that! Oh,
pray for _me_, dear Teresa. God will hear your prayer. He probably wouldn't
hear mine. Tell Him! Oh, please tell Him, Paula must not die!"

"No, Lisita," Teresa said as she dried my tears; "We must leave Paula in
God's hands. He loves her more than you and I could ever do. If you could
see that poor broken body as I've seen it you would not ask that she should
live! Yes, indeed, she was happy with us. She was to us all like an angelic
messenger sent from God to draw us to Him and to show us the way to heaven.
And now He's called her to Himself almost without suffering, for she
appears to have become insensible from the instant that the horses struck
her down. Listen to me, Lisita! Soon Paula will be in heaven at her
Saviour's side--her Saviour whom she loved so well; and in her dear
father's company of whom she spoke so often.

"We must think of her happiness, dear Lisita, not our own, from this day
forward. Paula, you remember, never thought of herself. Her thought was
always for others, and it was for another that she died. She gave her life
to save that little boy. So she followed in the footsteps of her Saviour,
as a good soldier of the Lord Jesus who died to save all who repent and
believe on His blessed name."

The voice of our old servant, so tender, so motherly, seemed to heal my
sorrow. When I became calmer she told me some of the details of the
tragedy. Paula had, dashed in front of the horses just in time to throw the
child out of danger but had been unable to escape herself. That much I
understood; but from that day to this, I have never been able to bring
myself to ask for any more details. It seems I had fainted, and they
carried us both home.

Poor Teresa, I knew how ardently she, too, loved our Paula, but courageous
and unselfish her only thought, as ever, was for us. In consoling me she
forgot her own sorrow. As I looked at that strong calm face lighted up as
from an inner brilliance, it seemed to take on a striking likeness to the
dear one whose life was ebbing away in the next room. There came to my mind
a verse from a Bible story that Paula had told us once. It was this:

"The spirit of Elijah hath fallen on Elisha."

     *       *       *       *       *

A stream of neighbors came in from everywhere. It was in those last moments
as these humble friends passed before that unconscious form that we came to
comprehend how many lives had been touched by the simple country girl from
the Waldensian mountains. Some remembered her just from the smile with
which she always greeted young and old as she passed up and down the long
street at our end of the town. Others spoke of the loving adoration of the
children whom she had protected and defended. Still others mentioned the
kindness she had shown them, and poured out many stories of Paula's
universal love for all--of her visits to the poor and sick, and of how she
had pointed them to the Saviour who had died to take away their sin;
bringing joy and hope and liberty into many a home where only discord and
misery had reigned before.

So the tears of many of our humble, friendless neighbors mingled with our
own as we waited for the end.

But there was one on whom the blow fell more terribly than on any one of
the rest of us, for it was a bitter mixture of remorse and shame that Louis
had to bear. When he arrived at the house after being summoned from our
uncle's place, and came to a full realization of what had happened, for an
instant he seemed turned to stone. Then a sharp cry came from him. In that
short moment he seemed to change from a careless, selfish boy to a man--a
man awakened at last to his terrible need of a change and with a
transforming purpose in his life from that day forward.

Louis demanded that I tell everybody present what had happened that
afternoon. When I refused, he poured out the whole sorry, sordid story of
his selfishness without one word of excuse, saying as he finished, "So you
see, it was I who killed her, for there was no need of her stirring from
the house." Then he turned to my father imploring him to punish him
severely. He said he could ask no pardon, for he had done what he
considered unpardonable. For answer my father took him in his arms; and I
knew that at that moment my father and Louis came to understand each other
better than they had ever done in their lives before.

"No, my poor boy," my father said; "you need no further punishment. Now go
to your heavenly Father and ask Him to make you His child." And I know that
Louis did so.

     *       *       *       *       *

In silence we waited. Paula was the bond of love that had united us all;
not only to one another but now also to God. How wonderful, how beautiful,
had been that short life, and how she had poured out her love upon us.
Again the scene came back to me of that moonlight night at this same
bedside, when at prayer she had seemed more like an angel talking with the
One who had sent her to us, than merely the simple, honest-hearted country
girl that she really was.

Suddenly the door opened slowly and a woman poorly dressed entered, leading
a little boy of about three years old. When he saw us he stopped and turned
to hide behind the folds of his mother's dress.

"Come in, come in," said Teresa kindly, as she led them both to the side of
my dear one lying there so white and still.

"Oh, Carlito," exclaimed the poor woman turning to her little son as she
dropped upon her knees beside the bed. "How I wish you could understand!
This is that lovely one who saved your life! She took your place there
under the horses' hoofs!" Then taking Paula's two hands in her own she
said, "Oh, Mademoiselle, oh, that you might hear me! Would that I might do
something in return for what you have done for my boy! Oh, is there nothing
I can do?"

"Yes, my dear woman," said our old servant--and her eyes were
streaming--"I'll tell you what you can do. Nothing would have pleased Paula
better than to have known that you had taken the Lord Jesus as your
Saviour. Also you may take this dear child and dedicate and train him for
God's service in the days to come."

"That," said the poor woman, "I solemnly promise to do if you will show me
how."

Thus it was that our Teresa had the joy of pointing her first soul to the
Saviour.

Tenderly my father cut off two locks of that beautiful hair of our dear
one, and as the woman went out he said. "Take this one and keep it always
in remembrance of the rescuer of your little boy; and this other one," and
he held out the second to her also, "keep it for him until he's old enough
to understand."

Taking them from my father's hand she silently kissed them and placed them
in the bosom of her dress as she and her little one glided through the
outer door.

Louis had gone out on a special errand, and he soon returned, bringing with
him from the factory the object of his search. The poor Breton, followed by
his sons and all the other "scholars" of the night-school, started to enter
the room and then stopped abashed at the threshold. At the invitation of my
father however, one by one they all came to the bedside, pale and shaken
with emotion.

"I'm glad you were able to get here before the end came," said my father.
"Oh, if you could only know how she loved you all!"

The Breton suddenly broke down and cried like a child. When he could
control himself he said, "It was but this very morning that I passed her on
the street. She seemed just like a happy bird as she waved me 'good
day,'--and now--now--to find her dying here!"

"May the dear Lord's will be done!" said Teresa.

The poor Breton had buried his face in his hands, but suddenly looking up,
he said humbly,

"You're quite right, Mademoiselle Teresa--but, you see, Mademoiselle Paula
was more to me than it seems she could mean to any one of you. I was a
drunkard and a robber--a monster of iniquity! I was despised and hated and
feared by everybody, and for good reason. But there in Celestina's kitchen
that day, Mademoiselle was not afraid to take these rough hands--these
hands that had been so often stained with crime and violence in her own
pure white ones to tell me she would help me! She it was who taught me to
pray. She it was who had prayed for me while I was in prison. I have seen
men ground to pieces in the gears of a machine in the factory. I've looked
on death in many terrible forms without shedding a tear--but this one!--oh,
Mademoiselle Paula! Would that I could have died in your place!" And again
quivering with emotion, the Breton turned and leaned against the wall to
hide his tears.

Suddenly a convulsion shook the form of my dear one and Dr. Lebon stepped
forward and took her hand. "The end is coming," he said.

My father dropped on his knees beside the bed. "Oh, Lord," he said, "I,
too, would be Thine own. Is it too late for me?"

At that moment a hand was laid on his shoulder. It was the same hand that
years ago had been laid on his wife's eyes to close them for the last time.
That same hand had tended and cared faithfully for his children ever since.

"Monsieur! My good Master!" said Teresa, in a tone of tender love and
respect such as I had never heard her use before, "It is not too late! He
has said, 'Him that cometh unto Me, I will in no wise cast out.'"

My father looked up. "Well, then, Teresa--I come to Him."

The dear old woman dropped on her knees and with folded hands simply said,
"Thanks, dear Lord, for Thou hast answered my prayer, and Paula's too!"

     *       *       *       *       *

The storm of wind and rain had passed. In the little gardens of the "Red
Cottages" across the street, the flowers once again began to raise their
heads and the birds began to sing as the sun came out once more.

Suddenly there came a soft sigh from the still form on the bed. Dr. Lebon
nodded as he turned away. His task was ended. The Good Shepherd had taken
His tired lamb in His arms.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then the sound of a deep voice was heard, saying,

"Except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die it abideth alone, but
if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit."






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Paula the Waldensian, by Eva Lecomte





This eBook was produced by Anne Soulard, Charles Franks
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.




IN TIMES OF PERIL
A TALE OF INDIA.

BY G. A. HENTY




CONTENTS.


CHAPTER I.

Life in Cantonments

CHAPTER II.

The Outbreak

CHAPTER III.

The Flight

CHAPTER IV.

Broken Down

CHAPTER V.

Back Under the Flag

CHAPTER VI.

A Dashing Expedition

CHAPTER VII.

Delhi

CHAPTER VIII.

A Desperate Defense

CHAPTER IX.

Saved by a Tiger

CHAPTER X.

Treachery

CHAPTER XI.

Retribution Begins

CHAPTER XII.

Dangerous Service

CHAPTER XIII

Lucknow

CHAPTER XIV.

The Besieged Residency

CHAPTER XV.

Spiking the Guns

CHAPTER XVI.

A Sortie and its Consequences

CHAPTER XVII.

Out of Lucknow

CHAPTER XVIII.

The Storming of Delhi

CHAPTER XIX.

A Riot at Cawnpore

CHAPTER XX.

The Relief of Lucknow

CHAPTER XXI.

A Sad Parting

CHAPTER XXII.

The Last Capture of Lucknow

CHAPTER XXIII.

A Desperate Defense

CHAPTER XXIV.

Rest after Labor




CHAPTER I.

LIFE IN CANTONMENTS.


Very bright and pretty, in the early springtime of the year 1857, were the
British cantonments of Sandynugghur. As in all other British garrisons in
India, they stood quite apart from the town, forming a suburb of their
own. They consisted of the barracks, and of a maidan, or, as in England it
would be called, "a common," on which the troops drilled and exercised,
and round which stood the bungalows of the military and civil officers of
the station, of the chaplain, and of the one or two merchants who
completed the white population of the place.

Very pretty were these bungalows, built entirely upon the ground floor, in
rustic fashion, wood entering largely into their composition. Some were
thatched; others covered with slabs of wood or stone. All had wide
verandas running around them, with tatties, or blinds, made of reeds or
strips of wood, to let down, and give shade and coolness to the rooms
therein. In some of them the visitor walked from the compound, or garden,
directly into the dining-room; large, airy, with neither curtains, nor
carpeting, nor matting, but with polished boards as flooring. The
furniture here was generally plain and almost scanty, for, except at meal-
times, the rooms were but little used.

Outside, in the veranda, is the real sitting-room of the bungalow. Here
are placed a number of easy-chairs of all shapes, constructed of cane or
bamboo--light, cool, and comfortable; these are moved, as the sun
advances, to the shady side of the veranda, and in them the ladies read
and work, the gentlemen smoke. In all bungalows built for the use of
English families, there is, as was the case at Sandynugghur, a drawing-
room as well as a dining-room, and this, being the ladies' especial
domain, is generally furnished in European style, with a piano, light
chintz chair-covers, and muslin curtains.

The bedroom opens out of the sitting-room; and almost every bedroom has
its bathroom--that all-important adjunct in the East--attached to it. The
windows all open down to the ground, and the servants generally come in
and out through the veranda. Each window has its Venetian blind, which
answers all purposes of a door, and yet permits the air to pass freely.

The veranda, in addition to serving as the general sitting-room to the
family, acts as a servants' hall. Here at the side not used by the
employers, the servants, when not otherwise engaged, sit on their mats,
mend their clothes, talk and sleep; and it is wonderful how much sleep a
Hindoo can get through in the twenty-four hours. The veranda is his
bedroom as well as sitting-room; here, spreading a mat upon the ground,
and rolling themselves up in a thin rug or blanket from the very top of
their head to their feet, the servants sleep, looking like a number of
mummies ranged against the wall. Out by the stables they have their
quarters, where they cook and eat, and could, if they chose, sleep; but
they prefer the coolness and freshness of the veranda, where, too, they
are ready at hand whenever called. The gardens were all pretty, and well
kept, with broad, shady trees, and great shrubs covered by bright masses
of flower; for Sandynugghur had been a station for many years, and with
plenty of water and a hot sun, vegetation is very rapid.

In two of the large reclining chairs two lads, of fifteen and sixteen
respectively, were lolling idly; they had been reading, for books lay open
in their laps, and they were now engaged in eating bananas, and in talking
to two young ladies, some three years their senior, who were sitting
working beside them.

"You boys will really make yourselves ill if you eat so many bananas."

"It is not that I care for them," said the eldest lad; "they are tasteless
things, and a good apple is worth a hundred of them; but one must do
something, and I am too lazy to go on with this Hindoo grammar; besides, a
fellow can't work when you girls come out here and talk to him."

"That's very good, Ned; it is you that do all the talking; besides, you
know that you ought to shut yourselves up in the study, and not sit here
where you are sure to be interrupted."

"I have done three hours' steady work this morning with that wretched
Moonshi, Kate; and three hours in this climate is as much as my brain will
stand."

Kate Warrener and her brothers, Ned and Dick, were the children of the
major of the One Hundred and Fifty-first Bengal Native Infantry, the
regiment stationed at Sandynugghur. Rose Hertford, the other young lady,
was their cousin. The three former were born in India, but had each gone
to England at the age of nine for their education, and to save them from
the effects of the climate which English children are seldom able to
endure after that age. Their mother had sailed for England with Dick, the
youngest, but had died soon after she reached home. Dick had a passion for
the sea, and his father's relations having good interest, had obtained for
him a berth as a midshipman in the royal navy, in which rank he had been
serving for upward of a year. His ship being now in Indian waters, a
month's leave had been granted him that he might go up the country to see
his father. The other lad had arrived from England three months before,
with his sister and cousin. Major Warrener had sent for his daughter,
whose education was finished, to take the head of his house, and, as a
companion, had invited Rose Hertford, who was the orphan child of his
sister, to accompany her. Ned, who had been at Westminster till he left
England, was intended for the Indian army. His father thought that it
would be well for him to come out to India with his sister, as he himself
would work with him, and complete his education, to enable him to pass the
necessary examination--then not a very severe one--while he could be at
the same time learning the native languages, which would be of immense
benefit to him after he had entered the army. Coming out as they had done
in the cold season, none of the four exhibited any of that pallor and
lassitude which, at any rate during the summer heats, are the rule
throughout the Anglo-Indian community.

As Ned finished his sentence the sound of the tread of two horses was
heard along the road.

"Captains Dunlop and Manners," Dick exclaimed; "a shilling to a penny!
Will either of you bet, girls?"

Neither his sister nor cousin replied to this offer; and the boys gave a
sly nod of intelligence to each other, as two horsemen rode up to the
veranda and dismounted; throwing their reins to the _syces_, who, whatever
the pace at which their masters ride, run just behind, in readiness to
take the horses, should they dismount.

"Good-morning, Miss Warrener; good-morning, Miss Hertford: we have brought
you some interesting news."

"Indeed!" said the girls, as they shook hands with the newcomers, who were
two as good specimens of tall, well-made, sunburnt Anglo-Saxons as one
would wish to see. "What is it?"

"We have just got the news that a family of wild boars have come down, and
are doing a lot of damage near Meanwerrie, four miles off. I suppose they
have been disturbed somewhere further away, as we have not heard of any
pig here for months; so to-morrow morning there is going to be grand pig-
sticking; of course you will come out and see the fun?"

"We shall be delighted," said Kate; but Rose put in: "Yes; but oh! how
unfortunate! it's Mrs. Briarley's garden party."

"That has been put off till next day. It is not often we get a chance at
pig, and we have always got gardens. The two need not have interfered with
each other, as we shall start at daylight for Meanwerrie; but we may be
out some hours, and so it was thought better to put off the party to a day
when there will be nothing else to do."

"Hurrah!" shouted Dick; "I am in luck! I wanted, above all things, to see
a wild boar hunt; do you think my father will let me have a spear?"

"Hardly, Dick, considering that last time you went out you tumbled off
three times at some jumps two feet wide, and that, were you to fall in
front of a pig, he would rip you up before you had time to think about it;
besides which, you would almost certainly stick somebody with your spear."

Dick laughed.

"That was the first time I had ever been on a horse," he said; "will you
ride, Ned?"

"No," said Ned; "I can ride fairly enough along a straight road, but it
wants a first-rate rider to go across country at a gallop, looking at the
boar instead of where you are going, and carrying a spear in one hand."

"Do you think papa will ride?" Kate asked.

"I don't know, Miss Warrener; the major is a famous spear; but here he is
to speak for himself."

Major Warrener was in uniform, having just come up from the orderly-room.
He was a tall, soldierly figure, inclining to stoutness. His general
expression was that of cheeriness and good temper; but he was looking, as
he drove up, grave and serious. His brow cleared, however, as his eye fell
upon the group in the veranda.

"Ah! Dunlop, brought the news about the boar, eh?"

"You will take us with you?" the girls asked in a breath.

"Oh, yes, you shall go; I will drive you myself. I am getting too heavy
for pig-sticking, especially with such responsibilities as you about.
There, I will get out of this uniform; it's hot for the time of year. What
are you drinking? nothing? Boy, bring some soda and brandy!"

Then, producing his cigar-case, he took a cheroot.

"Ag-low!" he shouted, and a native servant ran up with a piece of red-hot
charcoal held in a little pair of tongs.

"There, sit down and make yourselves comfortable till I come back."

The lads, finding that their society was not particularly required,
strolled off to the stables, where Ned entered into a conversation with
the _syces_ as to the distance to Meanwerrie and the direction in which
that village lay. Like all Anglo-Indian children brought up in India, the
boys had, when they left India, spoken the language fluently. They had
almost entirely forgotten it during their stay in England, but it speedily
came back again, and Ned, at the end of three months' work, found that he
could get on very fairly. Dick had lost it altogether.

When they went back to the veranda they found that the girls had gone
indoors, and that their father was sitting and smoking with his brother
officers. When the lads came up the conversation ceased, and then the
major said:

"It is as well the boys should know what is going on."

"What is it, father?" Ned asked, struck with the grave tone in which the
major spoke, and at the serious expression in all their faces.

"Well, boys, for some months past there have been all sorts of curious
rumors running through the country. Chupatties have been sent round, and
that is always considered to portend something serious."

"Do you mean the chupatties we eat--flat cakes, father?"

"Yes, Ned. Nobody knows who sends them round, or the exact meaning of the
signal, but it seems to be an equivalent for to 'prepare,' 'make ready.'
Chupatties are quickly prepared; they are the bread eaten on a journey,
and hence probably their signification. At any rate, these things have
been circulated among the native troops all over the country. Strangers
are known to have come and gone, and there is a general uneasy and
unsettled feeling prevalent among the troops. A ridiculous rumor has
circulated among them that the new cartridges have been greased with pig's
fat, in order that the caste of all who put it to their lips might be
destroyed. To-day I have received news from Calcutta that the Nineteenth
native regiment at Berhampore has behaved in a grossly mutinous manner,
and that it is feared the regiments at Barrackpore and Dumdum will follow
their example. The affair has been suppressed, but there is an uneasy
feeling abroad, and all the troops in Bengal proper appear tainted with
paltry disaffection. We have no reason for believing that the spirit has
spread to the northwest, and are convinced that as far as our own regiment
is concerned they can be relied on; but the affair, taken in connection
with the previous rumors, is very strange, and I fear that there are lots
of trouble ahead. I wish now that I had not had the girls out for another
year; but I could not foresee this, and, indeed, until this morning,
although there has been a good deal of talk, we all hoped it would have
passed off without anything coming of it. One hopes still that it will
spread no further; but should it do so, it is impossible to say what may
happen. All we have to do is to be watchful, and to avoid with care
anything that can offend the men's prejudices. We must explain to the
native officers the folly of the greased cartridge story, and tell them to
reassure the men. You don't see anything else to do, Dunlop?"

"No, major; I trust that the regiment is to be depended upon; it has
always been well treated and the men have seemed attached to us all. We
will do our best to reassure them; but if there is any insubordination, I
hope that the colonel will give the men a lesson which will put an end to
the nonsense in the bud."

"Of course you will stay to tiffin?" the major said, as the _kitmagar_, or
head servant, announced that tiffin was ready.

"Many thanks, major, but we promised to tiff with Bullen, and he would be
mad if we did not turn up. How are you thinking of going to-morrow? I
intend to drive over, and send my horse on; so I can give one of your boys
a lift in my buggy."

"Thank you," the major said, "that would suit us exactly. I shall drive in
my dog-cart, which will carry four of us; and if you will take Dick, that
will make it all right."

"What time do we start?"

"We are to be there by seven; we set it so late to give the ladies time to
breakfast comfortably before starting. I will call here at half-past six
for Dick; it will be all in my way. Good-morning."

Two minutes later the girls, Ned, and Dick came into the dining-room, and
the party sat down to luncheon--a meal always called tiffin in India. It
is a great mistake to suppose that people in India cannot eat because of
the heat; in the extreme heat of summer their appetites do, no doubt, fall
off; but at other times, they not only eat, but eat more largely than is
good for them; and a good deal of the liver complaint which is the pest of
India is in no small degree due to the fact that, the appetite being
unnaturally stimulated by hot and piquant food, people eat more than in
such a climate as this can be properly digested. The meal consisted of
curries, with which were handed round chutney and Bombay ducks--a little
fish about the size of a smelt, cut open, dried, and smoked with
assafoetida, giving it an intolerably nasty taste to strangers, but one
which Anglo-Indians become accustomed to and like--no one knows why they
are called Bombay ducks--cutlets, plantains sliced and fried,
pomegranates, and watermelons. They were waited upon by two servants, both
dressed entirely in white, but wearing red turbans, very broad and
shallow. These turbans denoted the particular tribe and sect to which
their wearers belonged. The castes in India are almost innumerable, and
each has a turban of a peculiar color or shape, and by these they can be
at once distinguished by a resident. On their foreheads were lines and
spots of a yellowish white paint, indicating also their caste, and the
peculiar divinity to whose worship they were specially devoted. On their
feet they wore slippers, and were as noiseless as cats in all their
movements. There are no better or more pleasant waiters in the world than
the natives of Hindostan.

Early as the hour named for the start would appear in England, it was by
no means early for India, where every one is up and about soon after
daylight--the morning hours up to eight o'clock being the most pleasant of
the whole day.

Kate and Rose were up, and all had had "_chota hazaree_" (little
breakfast) by half-past six, and were ready when Captain Dunlop drew up in
his buggy--a conveyance which will only hold two. The dog-cart was already
at the door, and the whole party were soon in motion. On the road they
passed several of their friends, for every one was going out to the hunt,
and merry greetings were exchanged.

The scenery round Sandynugghur resembles that which is common to all the
great plains of India watered by the Ganges and Jumna. The country is for
the most part perfectly flat, and cut up into little fields, divided by
shallow ditches. Here and there nullahs, or deep watercourses, with
tortuous channels and perpendicular sides, wind through the fields to the
nearest stream. These nullahs constitute the great danger of hunting in
the country. In the fields men may be noticed, in the scantiest of attire,
working with hoes among their springing crops; women, wrapped up in the
dark blue calico cloth which forms their ordinary costume, are working as
hard as the men. Villages are scattered about, generally close to groves
of trees. The huts are built of mud; most of them are flat-topped, but
some are thatched with rushes. Rising above the villages is the mosque,
where the population are Mohammedan, built of mud like the houses, but
whitewashed and bright. The Hindoo villages generally, but not always,
have their temples. The vegetation of the great plains of India is not
tropical, according to the ideas of tropical vegetation gathered from
British hothouses. There are a few palms and many bananas with their wide
leaves, but the groves are composed of sturdy trees, whose appearance at a
distance differs in no way from that of ordinary English forest trees.
Viewed closer, the banian with its many stems is indeed a vegetable
wonder; but, were it not for the villages and natives, a traveler might
journey for very many miles across the plains of India without seeing
anything which would specially remind him that he was out of England.

There were a considerable number of traps assembled when Major Warrener
drew up, and some eight or ten gentlemen on horseback, each carrying a
boar-spear--a weapon not unlike the lance of an English cavalryman, but
shorter in the handle. The riders were mostly dressed in coats of the
Norfolk jacket type, and knee-breeches with thick gaiters. The material of
their clothes was a coarse but very strong cloth of native make, gray or
brown in color. Some wore round hats and forage caps with puggarees
twisted round them.

A chorus of greeting saluted the party as they drove up.

"Well, young ladies," the colonel said, "so you have come out to see the
death of the boar,

  "'The boar, the boar, the mighty boar,'

as the song says? So you are not going to take a spear to-day, major?
Think it's time to leave it to the youngsters, eh?"

"Where are the wild boars, Mrs. Renwick?" Kate asked of the colonel's
wife.

"Pig, my dear; we always call them pig when we speak of them together,
though we talk of the father of the family as the boar. Do you see that
clump of long grass and jungle right across the plain? That's where they
are. They have been watched all night. They went out to feed before
daybreak and have just gone back again. Do you think we are in the best
place for seeing the sport, Major Warrener?"

"I think, Mrs. Renwick, that if you leave your trap and go up to the top
of that knoll, two hundred yards to the right, you will get a really good
view of the plain."

Mrs. Renwick alighted from the dog-cart in which the colonel had driven
her, and the whole party, following her example, walked in a laughing
group to the spot which Major Warrener had indicated, and which was
pronounced as just the place. The _syces_ stood at the heads of the
horses, and those who were going to take part in the sport cantered off
toward the spot where the pigs were lurking, making, however, a wide
_dtour_ so as to approach it from the other side, as it was desired to
drive them across the plain. At some distance behind the clump were
stationed a number of natives, with a variety of mongrel village curs.
When they saw the horsemen approach they came up and prepared to enter the
jungle to drive out the pigs.

The horsemen took up their position on either side of the patch in
readiness to start as soon as the animals were fairly off. A number of
villagers, in whose fields of young rice the family had done much damage
during the few days that they had taken up their abode in their present
quarters, were assembled on such little rises of ground as were likely to
give a good view of the proceedings. There were about a dozen horsemen
with spears; of these, three or four were novices, and these intended to
try their skill for the first time upon the "squeakers," as the young pigs
are called, while the others prepared for a race after the old ones.

Great nerve, considerable skill, and first-rate horsemanship are required
for the sport of pigsticking. The horse, too, must be fast, steady, well-
trained and quick, for without all these advantages the sport is a
dangerous one. The wild boar is, at the start, as fast as a horse. He is
very quick at turning, and when pressed always attacks his pursuers, and
as he rushes past will lay open the leg or flank of a horse with a
sweeping cut with his sharp tusk. If he can knock a horse down the
position of his rider would be serious indeed, were not help to arrive in
time to draw off the attention of the enraged animal from his foe. Heavy
falls, too, take place over watercourses and nullahs, and in some parts of
India the difficulties are greatly increased by bowlders of all kinds
being scattered over the ground, and by the frequent occurrence of bushes
and shrubs armed with most formidable spines and thorns. Conspicuous among
these is the bush known as the "wait-a-bit thorn," which is furnished with
two kinds of thorn--the one long, stiff, and penetrating, the other short
and curved, with a forked point almost like a fishhook. When this once
takes hold it is almost necessary to cut the cloth to obtain a release.

Scarcely had the beaters, with much shouting and clamor, entered the patch
of bush in which the pigs were lying, than the porcine family, consisting
of a splendid boar and sow, and eight nearly full-grown squeakers, darted
out on the open, and in a moment the horsemen were off in pursuit. The
ground was deep and heavy, and the pigs at the first burst gained fast
upon their pursuers. There was no attempt on the part of the pigs to keep
together, and directly after starting they began to diverge. The old boar
and sow both kept across the plain--one bearing toward the left, the other
to the right. The squeakers ran in all directions--some at right angles to
the line that the old ones were taking. The object of one and all was to
gain cover of some kind.

With their hats pressed well down upon their heads, and their spears
advanced with the head some two or three feet from the ground, the hunters
started after them--some making after the boar, some after the sow,
according to the position which they occupied at the commencement of the
chase, while some of the young hands dashed off in pursuit of the
squeakers.

There were five, however, after the boar; Captain Dunlop, a young ensign
named Skinner, the Scotch doctor of the regiment, and two civilians. For a
short time they kept together, and then Captain Dunlop and Skinner began
to draw ahead of the others.

The boar was a stanch one, and a mile had been passed before his speed
began sensibly to diminish. The young ensign, who was mounted on a very
fast Arab, began to draw up to him three or four lengths ahead of Captain
Dunlop, bearing his horse so as to get upon the left side of the boar, in
order to permit him to use his spear to advantage.

He was nearly up to him when Captain Dunlop, who saw the boar glancing
back savagely, cried:

"Look out, Skinner! he will be round in a moment; keep your horse well in
hand!"

A moment later the boar was round. The horse, young and unbroken at the
work, started violently, swerved, and, before his rider could get him
round, the boar was upon him. In an instant the horse was upon the ground,
with a long gash upon his flank, and Skinner, flying through the air, fell
almost directly in the boar's way.

Fortunately for the young ensign, Captain Dunlop, as he shouted his
warning, had turned his horse to the left, so as to cut off the boar when
he turned, and he was now so close that the boar, in passing, had only
time to give a vicious blow at the fallen man, which laid his arm open
from his shoulder to his elbow.

At that instant Captain Dunlop arrived, and his spear pierced the animal's
flank. His aim was, however, disconcerted by his horse, at the moment he
struck, leaping over the fallen ensign; the wound, therefore, was but a
glancing one, and in a moment the boar was round upon his new assailant.
Fortunately the horse was a well-trained one, and needed not the sharp
touch of his master's rein to wheel sharp round on his hind legs, and dart
off at full speed. The boar swerved off again, and continued his original
line of flight, his object being to gain a thick patch of jungle, now
little over a quarter of a mile distant; the detention, however, was fatal
to him, for the doctor, who was close on Captain Dunlop's heels, now
brought up his horse with a rush and, with a well-aimed thrust, ran the
animal through, completely pinning him to the earth. The honor of his
death was therefore divided between the doctor and Captain Dunlop, for the
latter had drawn first blood, or, as it is termed, had taken first spear,
while the former had scored the kill.

The sow had been more fortunate than her lord. She had taken a line across
a part of the plain which was intersected by several nullahs. She, too,
had been wounded, but one of the nullahs had thrown out several of her
pursuers: one rider had been sent over his horse's head and stunned; and
the sow, turning sharp down a deep and precipitous gully, had made her
escape. Three of the squeakers fell to the spears of the Griffs--young
hands--and the rest had escaped. The boar had been killed only a short
distance from the rise upon which the spectators from Sandynugghur were
assembled, and the beaters soon tied its four legs together, and, putting
a pole through them, six of them carried the beast up to the colonel's
wife for inspection.

"What a savage-looking brute it is!" said Kate; "not a bit like a pig,
with all those long bristles, and that sharp high back, and those
tremendous tusks."

"Will you accept the skin, Miss Warrener?" Captain Dunlop said to her
afterward; "I have arranged with the doctor. He is to have the hams, and I
am to have the hide. If you will, I will have it dressed and mounted."

"Thank you, Captain Dunlop, I should like it very much;" but, as it turned
out, Kate Warrener never got the skin.

The boar killed, the doctor's first care was to attend to the wounded, and
Skinner's arm was soon bound up, and he was sent home in a buggy; the man
who was stunned came to in a short time. The unsuccessful ones were much
laughed at by the colonel and major, for allowing half the game started to
get away.

"You ought not to grumble, colonel," Captain Manners said. "If we had
killed them all, we might not have had another run for months; as it is,
we will have some more sport next week."

There was some consultation as to the chance of getting the sow even now,
but it was generally agreed that she would follow the nullah down, cross
the stream, and get into a large canebrake beyond, from which it would
take hours to dislodge her; so a general move was made to the carriages,
and in a short time the whole party were on their way back to
Sandynugghur.




CHAPTER II.

THE OUTBREAK.


A week after the boar-hunt came the news that a Sepoy named Mangul Pandy,
belonging to the Thirty-fourth Native Infantry, stationed at Barrackpore,
a place only a few miles out of Calcutta, had, on the 29th of March,
rushed out upon the parade ground and called upon the men to mutiny. He
then shot the European sergeant-major of the regiment, and cut down an
officer. Pandy continued to exhort the men to rise to arms, and although
his comrades would not join him, they refused to make any movement to
arrest him. General Hearsey now arrived on the parade ground with his son
and a Major Ross, and at once rode at the man, who, finding that his
comrades would not assist him, discharged the contents of the musket into
his own body.

Two days later the mutinous Nineteenth were disbanded at Barrackpore. On
the 3rd of April Mangul Pandy, who had only wounded himself, was hung, and
the same doom was allotted to a native officer of his regiment, for
refusing to order the men to assist the officer attacked by that mutineer,
and for himself inciting the men to rise against the government.

"What do you think of the news, papa?" Dick asked his father.

"I hope that the example which has been set by the execution of these
ringleaders, and by the disbandment of the Nineteenth, may have a
wholesome effect, Dick; but we shall see before long."

It needed no great lapse of time to show that this lesson had been
ineffectual. From nearly every station throughout Bengal and the northwest
provinces came rumors of disaffection; at Agra, at Umballah, and at other
places incendiary fires broke out with alarming frequency, letters were
from time to time intercepted, calling upon the Sepoys to revolt, while at
Lucknow serious disturbances occurred, and the Seventh Regiment were
disarmed by Sir Henry Lawrence, the Commissioner of Oude. So the month of
April passed, and as it went on the feeling of disquiet and danger grew
deeper and more general. It was like the anxious time preceding a
thunderstorm, the cloud was gathering, but how or when it would burst none
could say. Many still maintained stoutly that there was no danger
whatever, and that the whole thing would blow over; but men with wives and
families were generally inclined to take a more somber view of the case.
Nor is this to be wondered at. The British form an almost inappreciable
portion of the population of India; they are isolated in a throng of
natives, outnumbered by a thousand to one. A man might therefore well feel
his helplessness to render any assistance to those dear to him in the
event of a general uprising of the people. Soldiers without family ties
take things lightly, they are ready for danger and for death if needs be,
but they can always hope to get through somehow; but the man with a wife
and children in India, at the time when a general outbreak was
anticipated, would have the deepest cause for anxiety. Not, however, that
at this time any one at Sandynugghur looked for anything so terrible.
There was a spirit of insubordination abroad in the native troops, no
doubt, but no one doubted but that it would, with more or less trouble, be
put down. And so things went on as usual, and the garden parties and the
drives, and the friendly evening visiting continued just as before. It was
at one of these pleasant evening gatherings that the first blow fell. Most
of the officers of the station, their wives, and the two or three
civilians were collected at Major Warrener's. The windows were all open.
The girls were playing a duet on the piano; five or six other ladies were
in the drawing-room and about the same number of gentlemen were standing
or sitting by them, some four or five were lounging in the veranda
enjoying their cheroots; native servants in their white dresses moved
noiselessly about with iced lemonade and wine, when a Sepoy came up the
walk.

"What is it?" asked Major Warrener, who was one of the group in the
veranda.

"Dispatch for the colonel, Sahib."

The colonel, who was sitting next to the major, held out his hand for the
message, and was rising, when Major Warrener said:

"Don't move, colonel; boy, bring a candle."

The servant brought it: the colonel opened the envelope and glanced at the
dispatch. He uttered an exclamation which was half a groan, half a cry.

"Good Heaven! what is the matter, colonel?"

"The native troops at Meerut have mutinied, have murdered their officers
and all the European men, women, and children they could find, and are
marching upon Delhi. Look after your regiment."

A low cry broke from the major. This was indeed awful news, and for a
moment the two men sat half-stunned at the calamity, while the sound of
music and merry talk came in through the open window like a mockery on
their ears.

"Let us take a turn in the compound," said the major, "where no one can
hear us."

For half an hour they walked up and down the garden. There could be no
doubt about the truth of the news, for it was an official telegram from
the adjutant at Meerut; and as to the extent of the misfortune, it was
terrible.

"There is not a single white regiment at Delhi," exclaimed the colonel;
"these fiends will have it all their own way, and at Delhi there are
scores of European families. Delhi once in their hands will be a center,
and the mutiny will spread like wildfire over India. What was the general
at Meerut about? what were the white troops up to? It is as inexplicable
as it is terrible. Is there anything to be done, major, do you think?" But
Major Warrener could think of nothing. The men at present knew nothing of
the news, but the tidings would reach them in two or three days; for news
in India spreads from village to village, and town to town, with almost
incredible speed, and Meerut was but a hundred and fifty miles distant.

"Had we better tell them inside?" the major asked.

"No," answered the colonel; "let them be happy for to-night; they will
know the news to-morrow. As they are breaking up, ask all the officers to
come round to the messroom; I will meet them there, and we can talk the
matter over; but let the ladies have one more quiet night; they will want
all their strength and fortitude for what is to come."

And so, clearing their brows, they went into the house and listened to the
music, and joined in the talk until ten o'clock struck and every one got
up to go, and so ended the last happy evening at Sandynugghur.

The next morning brought the news of the rising at Delhi, but it was not
till two days later that letters giving any details of these terrible
events arrived, and the full extent of the awful calamity was known.

The flame broke out at Meerut at seven o'clock in the evening of Sunday,
the 10th of May. On the previous day a punishment parade had been held to
witness the military degradation of a number of men of the Third Native
Cavalry, who had been guilty of mutinous conduct in respect to the
cartridges. The native regiments at the station consisted of the Third
Cavalry, the Eleventh and Twentieth Infantry; there were also in garrison
the Sixtieth Rifles, the Sixth Dragoon Guards, and two batteries of
artillery; a force amply sufficient, if properly handled, to have crushed
the native troops, and to have nipped the mutiny in the bud. Unhappily,
they were not well handled. The cantonments of Meerut were of great
extent, being nearly five miles in length by two in breadth, the barracks
of the British troops were situated at some distance from those of the
native regiments, and the action of the troops was paralyzed by the
incompetency of the general, an old man who had lost all energy, and who
remained in a state of indecision while the men of the native regiments
shot their officers, murdered all the women and children, and the white
inhabitants whose bungalows were situated at their end of their
cantonment, opened the jail doors, and after setting fire to the whole of
this quarter of Meerut, marched off toward Delhi, unmolested by the
British troops. Even then an orderly sent off with dispatches to the
officer commanding at Delhi, informing him of what had happened, and
bidding him beware, might have saved the lives of hundreds of Englishmen
and women, even if it were too late to save Delhi; but nothing whatever
was done; the English troops made a few meaningless and uncertain
movements, and marched back to their barracks. No one came forward to take
the lead. So the white troops of Meerut remained stationary under arms all
night, and the English population of Delhi were left to their fate.

From Meerut to Delhi is thirty-two miles, and the mutineers of Meerut,
marching all night, arrived near the town at eight in the morning.
Singularly enough, the ancient capital of India, the place around which
the aspiration of Hindoos and Mohammedans alike centered, and where the
ex-emperor and his family still resided, was left entirely to the guard of
native troops; not a single British regiment was there, not a battery of
white troops. As the center of the province, a large white population were
gathered there-the families of the officers of the native infantry and
artillery, of the civil officers of the province, merchants, bankers,
missionaries, and others. As at all other Indian towns, the great bulk of
the white inhabitants lived in the cantonments outside the town; had it
not been for this, not one would have escaped the slaughter that commenced
as soon as the Third Cavalry from Meerut rode into the town. The Fifty-
fourth Native Infantry, who had hastily been marched out to meet them,
fraternized with them at once, and, standing quietly by, looked on while
their officers were murdered by the cavalrymen. Then commenced a scene of
murder and atrocity which is happily without parallel in history. Suffice
to say, that with the exception of some half-dozen who in one way or other
managed to escape, the whole of the white population inside the walls of
Delhi were murdered under circumstances of the most horrible and revolting
cruelty. Had the news of the outbreak of Meerut been sent by a swift
mounted messenger, the whole of these hapless people would have had time
to leave the town before the arrival of the mutineers. Those in the
cantonments outside the city fared somewhat better. Some were killed, but
the greater part made their escape; and although many were murdered on the
way, either by villagers or by bodies of mutineers, the majority reached
Meerut or Aliwal. The sufferers of Delhi did not die wholly unavenged.
Inside the city walls was an immense magazine containing vast stores of
powder, cartridges, and arms. It was all-important that this should not
fall into the hands of the mutineers. This was in charge of Lieutenant
Willoughby of the royal artillery, who had with him Lieutenants Forrest
and Rayner, and six English warrant and non-commissioned officers,
Buckley, Shaw, Scully, Crow, Edwards, and Stewart. The following account
was given by Lieutenant Forrest:

"The gates of the magazine were closed and barricaded, and every possible
arrangement that could be made was at once commenced. Inside the gate
leading to the park were placed two six-pounders doubly charged with
grape. These were under acting sub-conductor Crow and Sergeant Stewart,
with lighted matches in their hands. Their orders were that if any attempt
was made to force the gate the guns were to be fired at once, and they
were to fall back to that part of the magazine where Lieutenant Willoughby
and I were posted. The principal gate of the magazine was similarly
defended by two guns and by the _chevaux-de-frise_ laid down in the
inside. For the further defense of this gate and the magazine in its
vicinity, there were two six-pounders so placed as to command it and a
small bastion close by. Within sixty yards of the gate, and commanding two
cross roads, were three six-pounders, and one twenty-four pound howitzer,
which could be so managed as to act upon any part of the magazine in that
neighborhood. After all these guns and howitzers had been placed in the
several positions above named, they were loaded with a double charge of
grape. After these arrangements had been completed a train was laid ready
to be fired at a preconcerted signal. On the enemy approaching the walls
of the magazine, which was provided with scaling ladders, the native
establishment at once deserted us by climbing up the sloped sheds on the
inside of the magazine and descending the ladders on the outside."

When the attack began the mutineers climbed the walls in great numbers,
and opened fire upon the little garrison; these replied by an incessant
fire of grape-shot, which told severely upon the enemy. There were but two
men to each gun, but they stood nobly to their pieces until all were more
or less wounded by the enemy's fire. Finding that no more could be done,
Lieutenant Willoughby gave the order, Conductor Scully fired the several
trains, and in another instant a tremendous explosion took place which
shook all Delhi, and covered the city with a cloud of black smoke. It was
calculated that from fifteen hundred to two thousand of the mutineers and
rabble of the town were killed by the falling walls, or crushed under the
masses of masonry. Lieutenants Willoughby, Forrest, Rayner, and Conductor
Buckley survived the explosion, and effected their retreat in the
confusion through a small sallyport on the river face. The mutineers were
so enraged by their misfortune that they rushed to the palace and demanded
of the king a number of European officers and ladies who had sought refuge
under his protection. They were handed over to the mutineers, and at once
slaughtered.

The Warreners listened with pale faces as their father, on his return from
the orderly-room, where the news had been discussed, told them the sad
story.

"There is nothing to be done, I suppose, papa?" Ned said gently.

"No, my boy; we are in the hands of God. We must wait now for what may
come. At present the regiment professes its fidelity, and has now
volunteered to march against the mutineers. The colonel believes them, so
do some of the others; I do not; it may be that the men mean what they say
at present, but we know that emissaries come and go, and every fresh
rising will be an incentive to them. It is no use blinking the truth,
dear; we are like men standing on a loaded mine which may at any moment
explode. I have been thinking, indeed for the last week I have done
nothing but think, what is best to be done. If the mutiny breaks out at
night or at any time when we are not on parade, we have agreed that all
the whites shall make at once for Mr. Thompson's house. It is the
strongest of any of the residences--for there would of course be no
getting to the messhouse--and then we will sell our lives as dearly as we
may. If it happens when we are on parade, defense by the rest of the
residents would be useless. There are but six civilians, with you two
boys--for we have counted you--eight. Probably but few of you could gain
Thompson's house in time; and if all did, your number would be too small
to defend it. There remains then nothing but flight. The rising will most
likely take place on parade. The residents have agreed that each day they
will, on some excuses or other, have their traps at their door at that
hour, so that at the sound of the first shot fired they may jump in and
drive off."

"But, you, papa?" Kate asked.

"My dear," said her father, "I shall be on duty; so long as a vestige of
the regiment remains as a regiment, I shall be with it; if the whole
regiment breaks up and attacks us, those who do not fall at the first
volley will be justified in trying to save their lives. The colonel, the
adjutant, and myself are mounted officers, and two or three of the others
will have their dogcarts each day brought up to the messhouse, as they
often do. If there is a mutiny on parade, the unmounted officers will make
for them, and we who are mounted will as far as possible cover their
retreat. So it is arranged."

"But will the road be open to Meerut, uncle?" Rose asked after a pause,
for the danger seemed so strange and terrible that they felt stunned by
it.

"No, my dear; it certainly will not. There are three garrison towns
between us, and they also will probably be up. The only thing is to keep
to the road for the first ten or twelve miles, and then take to the woods,
and make your way on foot. I have spoken to Saba this morning. We can
trust her; she nursed you all, and has lived with me ever since as a sort
of pensioner till you came out. I have asked her to get two dresses of
Mussulman country women; in those only the eyes are visible, while the
Hindoo dress gives no concealment. I have also ordered her to get me two
dresses: one, such as a young Mussulman _zemindar_ wears; the other, as
his retainer. They are for you boys. Keep the bundles, when you get them,
in that closet in the dining-room, so as to be close at hand; and in case
of alarm, be sure and take them with you. Remember my instructions are
absolute. If by day, escape in the trap at the first alarm; if the trap is
not available, escape at once on foot. If you hear the enemy are close,
hide till nightfall in that thick clump of bushes in the corner of the
compound, then make for that copse of trees, and try and find your way to
Meerut. I trust I may be with you, or that I may join you on the road. But
in any case, it will relieve my anxiety greatly to know that your course
is laid down. If I had to return here to look for you, I should bring my
pursuers after me, and your chance of escape would be gone--for I rely
upon you all to follow my instructions to the letter."

"Yes, indeed, papa," was the unanimous answer of the young Warreners, who
were deeply affected at the solemn manner in which their father spoke of
the situation.

"I have a brace of revolvers upstairs," he said, "and will give one to
each of you boys. Carry them always, but put them on under your coats, so
that they may not be noticed; it would be as well for you to practice
yourselves in their use; but when you do so, always go some distance from
the station, so that the sound will not be heard."

"Can you give Rose and me a pistol each, too, papa?" Kate said quietly.

Major Warrener kissed his daughter and niece tenderly.

"I have a pair of small double-barreled pistols; you shall each have one,"
he answered with a deep sigh.

That afternoon the young Warreners and their cousin went out for a walk,
and, fixing a piece of paper against a tree, practiced pistol shooting for
an hour. Any passer-by ignorant of the circumstances would have wondered
at the countenances of these young people, engaged, apparently, in the
amusement of pistol practice. There was no smile on them, no merry laugh
when the ball went wide of the mark, no triumphant shout at a successful
shot. Their faces were set, pale, and earnest, Scarcely a word was spoken.
Each loaded in silence, took up a place at the firing point, and aimed
steadily and seriously; the boys with an angry eye and frowning brow, as
if each time they were firing at a deadly foe; the girls as earnestly, and
without any of the nervousness or timidity which would be natural in girls
handling firearms for the first time. Each day the exercise was repeated,
and after a week's practice all could hit, with a fair amount of
certainty, a piece of paper six inches square, at a distance of ten yards.

During this time Captains Dunlop and Manners spent their whole time, when
not engaged upon their military duties, at Major Warrener's. They were now
the recognized lovers of Kate and Rose; and although, in those days of
tremendous anxiety and peril, no formal engagements were entered upon, the
young people understood each other, and Major Warrener gave his tacit
approval. Very earnestly all the party hoped that when the dread moment
came it might come when they were all together, so that they might share
the same fate, whatever it might be. The young officers' buggies now stood
all day in Major Warrener's compound, with the patient _syces_ squatting
near, or talking with the servants, while the major's horses stood ready
saddled in the stables.

However much the party might hope to be together when the crisis came,
they felt that it was improbable that they would be so, for at the first
symptoms of mutiny it would be the duty of the officers to hasten to the
barracks to endeavor to quell it, even if certain death should meet them
there.

In the face of the tidings from Meerut and Delhi, all the pretense of
confidence, which had hitherto been kept up at the station, came to an
end; and even had there been implicit confidence in the regiment, the news
of such terrible events would have caused an entire cessation of the
little amusements and gatherings in which Sandynugghur had previously
indulged.

As is usual in cases of extreme danger, the various temperaments of people
come strongly into relief at these awful times. The pretty young wife of
the doctor was nearly wild with alarm. Not daring to remain at home alone,
she passed the day in going from house to house of her female friends.
Advice and example she obtained from these, but poor comfort. The
colonel's wife was as brave as any man in the station; she hardly shared
her husband's opinion that the regiment would remain faithful in the midst
of an almost general defection; but she was calm, self-possessed, and
ready for the worst.

"It is no use crying, my dear," she said to the doctor's wife. "Our
husbands have enough to worry them without being shaken by our tears.
Death, after all, can only come once, and it is better to die with those
we love than to be separated."

But there were not many tears shed in Sandynugghur. The women were pale
and quiet. They shook hands with a pressure which meant much, lips
quivered, and tears might drop when they spoke of children at home; but
this was not often, and day after day they bore the terrible strain with
that heroic fortitude which characterized English women in India during
the awful period of the mutiny. Ten days after the news came in of the
rising at Delhi Major Warrener told his family, on his return from parade,
that the regiment had again declared its fidelity, and had offered to
march against the mutineers.

"I am glad of it," he said, "because it looks as if at present, at least,
they have not made up their minds to mutiny, and I shall be able to go to
mess with a lighter heart; as I told you yesterday, it is the colonel's
birthday, so we all dine at mess."

In the meantime Saba had faithfully carried out her commission as to the
dresses, and had added to the bundles a bottle containing a brown juice
which she had extracted from some berries; this was to be used for
staining the skin, and so completing the disguise. The Warreners knew that
if their old nurse had any information as to any intended outbreak she
would let them know; but she heard nothing. She was known to be so
strongly attached to the major's family that, had the other servants known
anything of it, they would have kept it from her.

The hour for the mess-dinner was eight, and the young Warreners had
finished their evening meal before their father started.

"God bless you, my children, and watch over and protect us all till we
meet again!" such was the solemn leave-taking with which the major and his
children had parted--if only for half an hour--since the evil days began.

For an hour and a half the young Warreners and their cousin sat and read,
and occasionally talked.

"It's time for tea," Kate said, looking at her watch; and she struck a
bell upon the table.

Usually the response was almost instantaneous; but Kate waited two
minutes, and then rang sharply twice. There was still no reply.

"He must be asleep," she said, "or out of hearing; but it is curious that
none of the others answer!"

Dick went out into the veranda, but came in again in a minute or two:

"There is no one there, Kate; and I don't hear any of them about
anywhere."

The four young people looked at each other. What did this mean? Had the
servants left in a body? Did they know that something was going to happen?
Such were the mute questions which their looks asked each other.

"Girls!" said Ned, "put your dark shawls round you. It may be nothing, but
it is better to be prepared. Get the bundles out. Dick, put a bottle of
wine in your pocket; and let us all fill our pockets with biscuits."

Silently and quietly the others did as he told them.

"There is that great biscuit-tin full," Ned said when they had filled
their pockets; "let us empty it into that cloth, and tie it up. Now, if
you will put your shawls on I will look in at the stables."

In a couple of minutes he returned.

"The horses are all unharnessed," he said, "and not a soul is to be seen.
Ah, is that Saba?"

The old nurse had been found asleep in her favorite place outside the door
of her young mistresses' room.

"Do you know what is the matter, Saba? All the servants are gone!"

The old nurse shook her head. "Bad news; no tell Saba."

"Now, Saba, get ready to start," for the nurse had declared that she would
accompany them, to go into the villages to buy food; "Dick, come with me;
we will put one of the horses into the dogcart."

They were leaving the room when they heard the sound of a rifle. As if it
were the signal, in a moment the air rang with rifle shots, shouts, and
yells. The boys leaped back into the room and caught up the bundles.

"Quick, for your lives, girls! some of them are not fifty yards off! To
the bushes! Come, Saba!"

"Saba do more good here," the old nurse said, and seated herself quietly
in the veranda.

It was but twenty yards to the bushes they had marked as the place of
concealment; and as they entered and crouched down there came the sound of
hurrying feet, and a band of Sepoys, led by one of the jemadars, or native
officers, rushed up to the veranda from the back.

"Now," the jemadar shouted, "search the house; kill the boys, but keep the
white women; they are too pretty to hurt."

Two minutes' search--in which furniture was upset, curtains pulled down,
and chests ransacked--and a shout of rage proclaimed that the house was
empty.

The jemadar shouted to his men: "Search the compound; they can't be far
off; some of you run out to the plain; they can't have got a hundred yards
away; besides, our guards out there will catch them."

The old nurse rose to her feet just as the Sepoys were rushing out on the
search.

"It is of no use searching," she said; "they have been gone an hour."

"Gone an hour!" shouted the enraged jemadar; "who told them of the
attack?"

"I told them," Saba said steadily; "Saba was true to her salt."

There was a yell of rage on the part of the mutineers, and half a dozen
bayonets darted into the faithful old servant's body, and without a word
she fell dead on the veranda, a victim to her noble fidelity to the
children she had nursed.

"Now," the jemadar said, "strip the place; carry everything off; it is all
to be divided to-morrow, and then we will have a blaze."

Five minutes sufficed to carry off all the portable articles from the
bungalow; the furniture, as useless to the Sepoys, was left, but
everything else was soon cleared away, and then the house was lit in half
a dozen places. The fire ran quickly up the muslin curtains, caught the
dry reeds of the tatties, ran up the bamboos which formed the top of the
veranda, and in five minutes the house was a sheet of flame.




CHAPTER III.

THE FLIGHT.


The young Warreners and their cousin, hurrying on, soon gained the thick
bush toward which they were directing their steps. As they cowered down in
its shelter the girls pulled their shawls over their heads, and with their
hands to their ears to keep out the noise of the awful din around them,
they awaited, in shuddering horror, their fate. The boys sat, revolver in
hand, determined to sell their lives dearly. Ned translated the jemadar's
speech, and at his order to search the compound both felt that all was
over, and, with a grasp of each other's hand, prepared to sally forth and
die. Then came Saba's act of noble self-sacrifice, and the boys had
difficulty in restraining themselves from rushing out to avenge her.

In the meantime the night was hideous with noises; musket shots, the sharp
cracks of revolvers, shouts, cries, and at times the long shrill screams
of women. It was too much to be borne, and feeling that for the present
Saba's act had saved them, the boys, laying down their weapons, pressed
their hands to their ears to keep out the din. There they sat for half an
hour, stunned by the awful calamity, too horror-stricken at what had
passed, and at the probable fate of their father, to find relief in tears.

At the end of that time the fire had burned itself out, and a few upright
posts still flickering with tongues of fire, and a heap of glowing embers
marked where the pretty bungalow, replete with every luxury and comfort,
had stood an hour before.

Dick was the first to move; he touched Ned's arm.

"All is quiet here now, but they may take it into their heads to come back
and search. We had better make for the trees; by keeping close to that
cactus hedge we shall be in shadow all the way."

The girls were roused from their stupor of grief.

"Now, dears, we must be brave," said Ned, "and carry out our orders. God
has protected us thus far; let us pray that He will continue to do so."

In another five minutes the little party, stealing cautiously out from
their shelter, kept along close to the wall to a side door, through which
they issued forth into the open. Ten steps took them to the cactus hedge,
and stooping low under its shelter, they moved on till they safely reached
the clump of trees.

For some time the little party crouched among the thick bushes, the
silence broken only by the sobs of the girls. Ned and Richard said
nothing, but the tears fell fast down their cheeks. The crackling of the
flames of many of the burning bungalows could be distinctly heard; and
outside the shadow of the trees it was nearly as light as day. Yells of
triumph rose on the night air, but there was no firing or sounds of
conflict, and resistance was plainly over. For a quarter of an hour they
sat there, crushed with the immensity of the calamity. Then Ned roused
himself and took the lead.

"Now, dears, the fires have burned down, and we must be moving, for we
should be far away from here before morning. No doubt others have hidden
in the woods round this place, and those black fiends will be searching
everywhere to-morrow. Remember what our orders are;" and he paused for a
moment to choke down the sob which would come when he thought of who had
given the order, and how it was given. "We were to make for Meerut. Be
strong and brave, girls, as father would have had you. I have gone over
the course on the district map, and I think I can keep pretty straight for
it. We need not change our clothes now; we can do that when we halt before
daylight. We must walk all night, to be as far as possible away before the
search begins. We know this country pretty well for some miles round,
which will make it easier. Come, girls, take heart; it is possible yet
that some of the officers have cut their way out, and our father may be
among them. Who can say?"

"I knew that he had talked over with Dunlop and Manners the very best
course to take whenever they might be attacked," Dick said in a more
cheerful tone, "so they were sure to keep together, and if any one has got
away, they would." Neither of the boys had at heart the least hope, but
they spoke as cheerfully as they could, to give strength and courage to
the girls. Their words had their effect. Kate rose, and taking her
cousin's arm said:

"Come, Rose, the boys are right. There is still some hope; let us cling to
it as long as we can. Now let us be moving: but before we go, let us all
thank God for having saved us from harm so far, and let us pray for His
protection and help upon the road."

Silently the little group knelt in prayer, and when they rose followed
Ned--who had naturally assumed the position of leader--out into the open
country beyond the grove, without a word being spoken. The moon was as yet
quite young, a favorable state for the fugitives, as it afforded light
enough to see where they were going without giving so bright a light as to
betray them to any one at a distance.

"The moon will be down in a couple of hours," Ned said; "but by that time
we shall be beyond where any sentries are likely to have been placed on
the road, so we can then trust ourselves on that till it begins to get
daylight. We must keep in the fields till we are past Nussara, which is
five miles by the road; then we can walk straight on. There is a nullah a
few yards on; we had better keep in that for a quarter of a mile; it does
not go quite the way we want, but it will be safer to follow it till we
are well out of sight of any one who may be watching the plain."

They scrambled down into the bed of the nullah. Then Kate said, "Walk on
as fast as you can, Ned; we can keep up with you, and if we hurry on we
shan't be able to think."

"All right," Ned answered; "I will go fast for a bit, but you must not
knock yourselves up; we have a long journey before us."

Walking fast, however, was impossible at the bottom of the nullah, for it
was pitch dark between its steep banks, and there were bowlders and stones
lying here and there. After half an hour's walking Ned scrambled up and
looked back.

"It is quite safe now," he said; "let us make as straight as we can for
Nussara."

Kate Warrener and Rose Hertford have never been able to recall any
incidents of that night's walk. Mechanically, as in a dreadful dream, they
followed Ned's guidance, stumbling across little watercourses, tramping
through marshy rice-fields, climbing into and out of deep nullahs, now
pausing to listen to the barking of a village dog, now making their way
through a thick clump of trees, and at last tramping for hours--that
seemed ages--along the dead flat of the highroad. This at the first faint
dawn of morning they left, and took refuge in a thick grove a quarter of a
mile from the highway. Before throwing themselves down to rest, the girls,
at Ned's earnest request, tried to eat a piece of biscuit, but tried in
vain, they, however, each sipped a little wine from the bottles, and then,
utterly worn out and exhausted, soon forgot their misery in a deep and
heavy sleep.

The sun was upon the point of setting when their companions aroused them,
and they woke up to their sorrows and dangers. The day had passed quietly;
the boys, after both sleeping for some four or five hours, had watched by
turns. No one had approached the wood; but a party of four Sepoys, mounted
on horses, had passed from Sandynugghur; and a larger party had, later in
the afternoon, come along in the other direction. From this the boys
guessed that a successful revolt had also taken place at Nalgwa, the next
station to Sandynugghur.

"Now, girls, the first thing to do is to eat. Here are biscuits for some
days, and the two bottles of wine, which we must be sparing of. Dick and I
have eaten lots of biscuits, and have had some water from a well at a
little distance behind the wood. There was a large gourd lying by it which
we have taken the liberty of borrowing. You can drink some water if you
like, but you must each take a glass of wine. You must keep up your
strength. There is no one in sight, so if you like you can go to the well
and have a wash. Don't be longer than you can help; it would be ruin to be
seen before we have changed our clothes. While you are away washing, Dick
and I will put on our dresses, and when you come back you can do the same.
We can stain our faces and hands afterward."

The girls chose to have their wash first and their meal afterward, and
felt refreshed and brighter after they had done so. Then they dressed in
the clothes Saba had provided for them, and could, at any other time, have
laughed at the comicality of their aspect, muffled up in white, with only
their eyes visible. The awkward shoes were the only part of the costume to
which they objected; but the sight of European boots below the native
dress would have betrayed them instantly; however, they determined to
adopt them for walking in at nights, or when crossing the fields, and to
put the native shoes in a bundle, to be worn in public.

The boys presently joined them, Ned in the dress of a young Mussulman
zemindar, Dick as his follower.

"I should not have known you in the least," Rose said; "as far as
appearances go, I think we are all safe now."

When it was quite dark they again started, regained the road, and kept
steadily along it. After two hours' walking they approached a village.
After some consultation it was decided that Dick, whose dress was the
darkest and least noticeable, should steal forward and reconnoiter. If
every one was indoors they would push boldly through; if not, they would
make a circuit round it. In ten minutes he returned.

"Ned, there are two troopers' horses standing before the largest house of
the place. I suppose they belong to some of the men of the cavalry
regiment at Nalgwa. If we could but steal them!"

"Splendid, Dick; why should we not? I can get on one, you on the other;
one of the girls can sit behind each of us, with her arms round our
waists. What do you say, girls? With our dress it would be natural for us
to be on horseback, and no one would ask any questions. We are pretty
safe, because if they come out there are but two of them, and we are more
than a match for them with our pistols."

"It seems a terrible risk to run, Ned; but I do think it would be our best
plan. What do you say, Rose?"

"I think we had better try, Kate."

"Now let us settle everything before we start," said Ned. "We must mount
first, I think, that we may be able to help you more easily; and you would
have less risk of falling off if you get up in front of us. We can change
when we have gone half a mile. Will you stand close to Dick, Kate, when he
mounts; Rose, you keep close to me. The moment we are fairly in the
saddle, and have got the reins in our hands, you put your foot on mine,
and take hold of my hand, and climb up in the saddle in front of me. Put
your arms round our necks and hold us, because we shall want one hand for
the reins, the other for a pistol."

"Let us cut a stick, Ned, to give them a lick and make them start at a
gallop."

Very gently, and with bated breath, they stole up the village. The horses
were still standing with their reins thrown over a hook in the wall. Very
quietly the boys unhooked the reins, but the horses moved uneasily, and
objected to their mounting them, for horses accustomed to natives dislike
to be touched by Europeans. However, the boys had just managed to climb
into their seats when a shutter of the house opened, and a voice said in
Hindostanee, "What is fidgeting the horses?" Then a head looked out.

"Some one is stealing the horses," he shouted.

"Quick, girls, up with you," Ned said; and the girls, as light as
feathers, sprang up. "Go along," the boys cried, bringing down their
sticks on the animals' sides. Dick's at once leaped forward, but Ned's
horse only backed. Ned gave his stick to Rose and seized his pistol, which
was cocked and ready for use. As he did so a native trooper rushed from
the house. As he came out Ned fired, and the man fell forward on his face.

Startled by the shot, the horse darted off after his companion. For a few
minutes they went forward at a gallop, the boys holding on as well as they
could, but expecting every moment to be thrown off. For awhile shouts and
cries were heard from the village, and then all was quiet again. The two
boys reined in their horses.

"That was awful," Dick said; "I would rather sit on the yardarm in a storm
than ride on that beast any further at the pace we have been going."

The girls had not spoken a word since they started, and they now slipped
to the ground. It was not an easy thing for them to get up behind, and
several slips were made before their attempts were successful. Once
seated, they were more comfortable, and they again went on, this time at
an easy canter. After half an hour's ride they came to a crossroad, and
turned up there, going now at a walk. After awhile they took a well-marked
path running in a parallel direction to the road; this they followed for
some time, passing fearlessly through one or two small villages.

Then, feeling by the flagging walk of their horses that they were becoming
fatigued, they plunged deep into a thick wood, dismounted, and prepared
for the night. Attached to the saddle of each horse was a nose-bag with
some forage. These were put on, the horses fastened up, and the little
party were soon asleep again.

Before starting next morning the first care of the boys was to take off
the embroidery of the horse-cloths, and as much of the metal work on the
bridles as could be possibly dispensed with, in order to conceal the fact
that the horses had belonged to a British cavalry regiment; then they
mounted, with the girls behind them, and rode quietly forward, taking care
not to travel by the main road, as the news of the carrying off the horses
would have been generally known there.

They passed through several villages, attracting but little attention as
they did so, for there was now nothing unusual in the appearance of a
Mohammedan zemindar and follower riding with two closely-veiled women _en
croupe_. Late in the afternoon they stopped at a village store, and Ned
purchased, without exciting any apparent suspicion, some grain for the
horses. That night they slept as usual in a wood, and congratulated
themselves on having made fully twenty-five miles of their journey toward
Meerut.

The next morning, after two miles' riding, they entered a large village.
As they were passing through it a number of peasants suddenly rushed out
into the road, and shouted to them to stop. They were armed with sticks
and hoes, and a few had guns. Looking behind, Ned saw a similar body fill
up the road behind them, cutting off their escape.

"Look, Ned, at that old fellow with the gun; that's the man who sold us
the grain last night," Dick said.

"We must charge them, Dick; there's nothing else to do. Hold tight, girls.
Now for your revolver, Dick! Now!"

And, digging their heels into their horses' side, the boys rode at the
crowd of peasants. There was a discharge of guns, and Dick felt as if a
hot iron had been drawn suddenly across his cheek; then they were in the
midst of the crowd, emptying their revolvers with deadly effect among
them; some fell, and the horses dashed forward, followed by the yells of
their assailants. A minute later three or four more guns were discharged,
the rear party having now joined the other, and being therefore able for
the first time to fire.

Dick heard a little startled cry from Kate.

"Are you hurt, darling?" he cried in alarm.

"Nothing to speak of, Dick. Ride on."

In a quarter of a mile they drew rein, and found that a ball had passed
through the upper part of Kate's arm, as it went round Dick's body.
Fortunately it had gone through the flesh only, without touching the bone.
Dick was bleeding copiously from a wound across the cheek.

"Another two inches to the right," he said, "and it would have taken me
fairly in the mouth. It's well it's no worse."

Kate's arm was soon bandaged up, and a handkerchief tied round Dick's
face. Ned proposed that for Kate's sake they should make a halt at the
first wood they came to, but Kate would not hear of it.

"On the contrary, Ned, we ought to press forward as hard as we can, for it
is very possible that at that village where we were recognized--I suppose
because they had heard about the horses--they may have dispatched people
to the main road, as well as further on to stop us here; and we may be
pursued at any moment, if there happens to be any native cavalry upon the
road. Evidently they are very much in earnest about catching us, and have
sent word to look after four people on two horses all over the country, or
they could not have known about it at the village yesterday evening."

"I am afraid you are right, Kate; if we could turn off this road I should
not fear, but the river cannot be far to our right, and the main road is
to our left. There is nothing for it but to press straight on.
Fortunately, the country is not thickly populated, and there is a good
deal of jungle. If the worst comes to the worst, we must leave our horses
and go on foot again. I fear that is more fatiguing for you, but we can
hide ourselves a good deal better."

It was late in the afternoon when Rose cried. "They are coming, Ned; there
is a party of cavalry behind!"

Ned looked round; and far back, along the straight road, he saw a body of
horsemen.

"They are a long distance behind," he said; "now for a race!"

The boys plied their sticks, and the horses sprang on at full gallop.

"How much are they gaining, Rose?" he asked, after twenty minutes' hard
riding.

"They are nearer, Ned--a good deal nearer; but they have not gained half
their distance yet."

"The sun set fully ten minutes ago," Ned said; "in another half-hour it
will be dark. Their horses must be done up, or they would gain faster on
us, as ours have to carry double, and are getting terribly blown; but
there is a wood, which looks a large one, a couple of miles ahead. If we
can get there five minutes before them, we are safe."

By dint of flogging their horses they entered the wood while their
pursuers were half a mile behind.

"Another hundred yards," Ned said, "and then halt. Now, off we get."

In an instant they leaped off, and gave a couple of sharp blows with their
sticks to the horses, who dashed off at a gallop down the road.

It was already perfectly dark in the wood, and the fugitives hurried into
the thickest part. In five minutes they heard the cavalry come thundering
past.

"We must push on," Ned said; "fortunately, we have done no walking, for we
must be far away by to-morrow morning. They will come up with the horses
before very long, and will know we are in the wood, and they will search
it through and through in the morning."

A quarter of a mile, and the wood grew thicker, being filled with an
undergrowth of jungle.

"If you will stop here, Ned, I will push on through this jungle, and see
how far it goes. The girls can never get through this. I think we are near
the edge of the wood; it looks lighter ahead."

In ten minutes he came back.

"Ned, we are on the river; it is not fifty yards from here."

This was serious news.

"What a pity we did not take to the left instead of the right when we left
the horses. However, they won't know which way we have gone, and must
watch the whole wood. We must push forward, and, by keeping as close as we
can to the river, shall most likely pass them; besides, they will be some
time before they decide upon forming a chain round the wood, and as there
are only about twenty of them they will be a long way apart. There! Do you
hear them? They are coming back! Now let us go on again!"

In ten minutes they reached the edge of the wood. They could see nothing
of the horsemen. Keeping in the fields, but close to the line of jungle
that bordered the river, they walked onward for upward of an hour. Then
they came upon the road. The river had made a bend, and the road now
followed its bank.

"Shall we cross it, and keep in the open country, or follow it, girls?"

"Follow it as long as we can keep on walking," Kate said. "It is in the
right direction, and we can go on so much faster than in the fields. If we
hear them coming along we can get into the jungle on the bank."

"Listen, Kate," Rose said a few minutes afterward; "they are following!"

"I expect," Ned said, "they find that the wood is too big to be watched,
and some of them are going on to get some help from the next garrison, or,
perhaps, to rouse up a village and press them in the work. Trot on, girls;
the jungle is so thick here you could hardly squeeze yourself in. We have
plenty of time; they won't be here for five minutes yet."




CHAPTER IV.

BROKEN DOWN.


They ran at the top of their speed, but the sound of the horses' feet grew
louder.

"There is a path leading to the river," Ned said; "let us turn down there;
we can hide under the jungle on the bank."

Breathlessly they ran down to the river.

"Hurrah! here is a boat, jump in;" and in another minute they had pushed
off from the bank, just as they heard a body of cavalry--for that they
were troops they knew by the jingling of their accouterments--pass at a
gallop. The stream was strong; and the boys found that with the rude oars
they could make no way whatever.

"We had better land again, and get further from the river," Ned said. "We
will push the boat off, and it will be supposed that we have gone off in
it."

This was soon done, and having regained the road, they crossed it and
struck over the fields.

The moon, which had been hitherto hidden under a passing cloud, was soon
out fully, and for some time they kept across the country, carefully
avoiding all villages. These were here more thinly scattered; patches of
jungle and wood occurred more frequently; and it was evident that they
were getting into a less highly cultivated district. It was long before
daybreak that Rose declared that she was too fatigued to go further, and
they entered a large wood. Here they lay down, and were soon fast asleep.
It was broad daylight when the Warreners woke. Rose still slept on.

Presently Kate came to her brothers. "I am afraid Rose is going to be ill.
She keeps talking and moaning in her sleep; her face is flushed, and her
hands as hot as fire."

As they were looking sadly at her she opened her eyes.

"Is it time to get up?" she asked. "Oh, my head! it is aching terribly. Is
the trap at the door?"

Then she closed her eyes again, and went on talking incoherently to
herself.

"She has fever," Kate said, "and we must get her under shelter, at
whatever risk."

"I heard a dog bark not far off, just as I went to sleep," Ned said. "I
will go and reconnoiter. Dick, you had better stay here."

Dick nodded, and Ned advanced cautiously to the edge of the wood. There he
saw a farmhouse of a better class than usual. Three peons were just
starting for work, and an elderly man with a long beard was standing at
the door. Then he went in, and after a few minutes reappeared with a long
staff in his hands, and went out into the fields. He did not, however,
follow the direction which the peons had taken, but took a line parallel
with the edge of the wood. "He looks a decent old fellow," Ned said to
himself; "I can but try; at any rate, at the worst I am more than a match
for him."

So saying, he stepped out into the field. The farmer started with surprise
at seeing a young Mussulman appear before him.

"I am English," Ned said at once. "I think you are kind by your face, and
I tell you the truth. There are two English girls in the wood, and one is
ill. We can go no further. Will you give them shelter?"

The old man stood for some time in thought.

"I have no complaint against the Feringhees," he said; "in my fathers time
the country was red with blood, but all my life I have eaten my bread in
peace, and no man has injured me. Where are the English ladies?"

Ned led the way to the spot where Rose was still lying. The old man looked
at her flushed face, and then at Kate, and said:

"The English ladies have suffered much, and can have done harm to no one.
I will shelter them. My wife and daughter will nurse the sick one. They
will be in the women's chamber, and my servants will not know that there
is a stranger there. I believe that they would be faithful, but one who
knows nothing can tell no tales. On the other side of the wood there is a
shed. It is empty now, and none go near it. The English sahibs can live
there, and each day I will bring them food. When their sister is well they
can go on again."

Ned translated the old man's words, and Kate, who was kneeling by Rose,
caught his hand and kissed it in her gratitude. He patted her head and
said, "Poor child!"

"How are we to carry Rose? I don't think she can walk," Kate asked.

The farmer solved the difficulty by motioning them to stay where they
were. He then went off, and in ten minutes returned, bearing a dried
bullock's skin. On this Rose was laid. The Hindoo took the two ends at her
feet, the boys each one of those by her head, and then, slung as in a
hammock, Rose was carried to the house, where the wife and daughter of
their host, prepared by him for what was coming, received them with many
expressions of pity, and she was at once carried into the inner room. The
farmer then placed before the boys two bowls of milk and some freshly made
chupatties, and then gave them some food for the day. With an expression
of fervent gratitude to him, and a kiss from Kate, who came out to tell
them that Rose would be well nursed and cared for, the boys started for
the hut in the direction the Hindoo pointed out to them. It was a small
building, and had apparently been at some time used as a cattle shed. The
floor was two feet deep in fodder of the stalks of Indian corn. Above was
a sort of rough loft, in which grain had been stored.

The boys at once agreed that, to prevent suspicion, it was safer to occupy
this, and they soon transferred enough of the fodder from below to make a
comfortable bed. Then, feeling secure from discovery, even if by chance
some passer-by should happen to glance into the shed, they were soon deep
in a sounder sleep than they had enjoyed since they left Sandynugghur.

The next day, when the old man came to see them, he was accompanied by
Kate. She looked pale and wan.

"How is Rose?" was their first question.

"She is as bad as she can be, dears. She has been delirious all night, and
is so this morning. I did not like to leave her for a moment. But this
kind old man wanted me to go with him, as I think he has something to say
to you."

"Have you any news?" Ned asked him.

"My servants tell me that the Sepoys are searching the whole country, some
of the officers have escaped from Sandynugghur, and also from Nalgwa,
where the troops rose on the same night; some of the residents have
escaped also. There is a reward offered for them alive or dead, and any
one hiding them is to be punished with death. The white lady is very ill.
She is in the hand of God; she may get better, she may die. If she gets
better it will be weeks before she can go through the hardships of the
journey to Meerut. I think it better that you should go on alone; the
white ladies will be as my daughters. I have told my servants that my
daughter is ill, so that if they hear cries and voices at night they will
think that it is she who is in pain. You can do no good here. If the woods
are searched you may be found; if you are found they will search
everywhere closely, and may find them. I will hide them here safely. The
orders are, I hear, that the captives taken are to be carried to Delhi;
but if they should be found I will myself journey to Meerut to bring you
the news. You will give me your names, and I will find you; then you may
get help and rescue them on the way."

Ned translated the old man's opinion and kind offer to his brother and
sister, and said that he was very unwilling to leave the girls--a
sentiment in which Dick heartily joined.

Kate, however, at once expressed her warm approval of the plan.

"It will be weeks, dears, before Rose can walk again, and I shall have an
anxious time with her. It would add greatly to my anxiety if I knew that
you were near, and might at any time be captured and killed. If dear papa
has escaped he will be in a terrible state of anxiety about us, and you
could relieve him if you can join him at Meerut, and tell him how kindly
we are treated here. Altogether, boys, it would be so much better for you
to go; for if the Sepoys do come, you could not defend us against more
than two or three, and they are sure to come in a stronger party than
that."

In spite of their disinclination to leave the girls without such
protection as they could give them, the boys saw that the course advised
was the best to be pursued, and told their Hindoo friend that they agreed
to follow his counsel, thanking him in the warmest terms for his kindness.

He advised them to leave their Mohammedan dresses behind, and to dress in
the simple costume of Hindoo peons, with which he could supply them. They
would then attract far less attention, and could even by day pass across
the fields without any comment whatever from the natives at work there,
who would naturally suppose that they belonged to some village near at
hand. "Englishmen could not do this," he said; "too much leg, too much
arm, too much width of shoulders; but boys are thinner, and no one will
notice the difference. In half an hour I will come back with the things."
Ned gave him the rest of the berries, which they had preserved, and asked
him to boil them up in a little water, as they would now have to color
their bodies and arms and legs, in addition to their faces.

It was a sad parting between Kate and her brothers, for all felt that they
might never meet again. Still the course decided upon was, under the
circumstances, evidently the best that could be adopted.

In an hour the Hindoo returned. The boys took off their clothes, and
stained themselves a deep brown from head to foot. The farmer then
produced a razor and a bowl of water and some soap, and said that they
must shave their hair off their heads, up to a level with the top of the
ears, so as to leave only that which could be concealed by their turban.
This, with some laughter--the first time they had smiled since they left
Sandynugghur--they proceeded to do to each other, and the skin thus
exposed they dyed the same color as the rest of the body. They then each
put on a scanty loincloth, and wrapping a large piece of dark blue cotton
stuff first round their waists and then over one shoulder, their costume
was complete, with the exception of a pair of sandals and a white turban.
The old Hindoo surveyed them gravely when their attire was completed, and
expressed his belief that they would pass without exciting the slightest
suspicion. Their pistols were a trouble. They were determined that, come
what might, they would not go without these, and they were finally slung
behind them from a strap passing round the waist under the loin-cloth; the
spare ammunition and a supply of biscuit were stowed in stout cotton bags,
with which their friend provided them, and which hung by a band passing
over one shoulder. Their money and a box of matches they secured in a
corner of their clothes. A couple of stout staves completed their outfit.

Bidding a grateful farewell to their friendly Hindoo, the boys started on
their journey. The sandals they found so difficult to keep on that they
took them off and carried them, except when they were passing over stony
ground. They kept to bypaths and avoided all villages. Occasionally they
met a native, but either they passed him without speech, or Ned muttered a
salutation in answer to that of the passer. All day they walked, and far
into the night. They had no fear of missing their way, as the road on one
hand and the river on the other both ran to Meerut; and although these
were sometimes ten miles apart, they served as a fair index as to the line
they should take. The biscuits, eked out with such grain as they could
pluck as they crossed the fields, lasted for two days; but at the end of
that time it became necessary to seek another supply of food.

"I don't know what to ask for, Dick; and those niggers always chatter so
much that I should have to answer, and then I should be found out
directly. I think we must try some quiet huts at a distance from the
road."

The wood in which they that night slept was near three or four scattered
huts. In the morning they waited and watched for a long time until one of
the cottages was, as far as they could judge, deserted, all its inmates
being gone out to work in the fields. They then entered it boldly. It was
empty. On hunting about they found some chupatties which had apparently
been newly baked, a store of rice and of several other grains. They took
the chupatties, five or six pounds of rice, and a little copper cooking-
pot. They placed in a conspicuous position two rupees, which were more
than equivalent to the value of the things they had taken, and went on
their way rejoicing.

At midday they sat down, lit a fire with some dried sticks, and put their
rice in the pot to boil. As Ned was stooping to pick up a stick he was
startled by a simultaneous cry of "Look out!" from Dick, and a sharp hiss;
and looking up, saw, three or four feet ahead of him, a cobra, with its
hood inflated, and its head raised in the very act of springing. Just as
it was darting itself forward Dick's stick came down with a sharp tap on
its head and killed it.

"That was a close shave, Ned," the boy said, laughing; "if you had stooped
he would have bit you on the face. What would have been the best thing to
do if he had bitten you?"

"The best thing is to suck the wound instantly, to take out a knife and
cut deeply in, and then, as we have no vesuvians, I should break up half a
dozen pistol cartridges, put the powder into and on the wound, and set it
alight. I believe that that is what they do in some parts of Eastern
Europe in the case of the bites of mad dogs; and this, if no time is lost
after the bite is given, is almost always effectual in keeping off
hydrophobia."

"Well, Ned, I am very thankful that we had not to put the virtue of the
receipt to a practical test."

"Would you like to eat the snake, Dick? I believe that snake is not at all
bad eating."

"Thank you," Dick said, "I will take it on trust. We have got rice; and
although I am not partial to rice it will do very well. If we could have
got nothing else we might have tried the snake; but as it is, I had rather
not. Two more days, Ned, and we shall be at Meerut. The old Hindoo said it
was a hundred miles, and we go twenty-five a day, even with all our bends
and turns to get out of the way of villages."

"Yes, I should think we do quite that, Dick. We walk from daylight to
sunset, and often two or three hours by moonlight; and though we don't go
very fast, we ought to get over a lot of ground. Listen! There is music!"
Both held their breath. "Yes, there are the regular beats of a big drum.
It is on the highroad, I should say, nearly abreast of us. If we go to
that knoll we shall have a view of them; and there cannot be the least
danger, as they must be fully a mile away."

Upon gaining the rise in question they saw a regiment in scarlet, winding
along the road.

"Are they mutineers, Dick, or British?"

It was more than any one could say. Mounted officers rode at the head of
the regiment; perfect order was to be observed in its marching; there was
nothing that in any way differed from its ordinary aspect.

"Let us go back and get our rice and lota, Dick. We can't afford to lose
that; and if we go at a trot for a couple of miles we can get round into
some trees near the road, where we can see their faces. If the mounted
officers are white it is all right; if not, they are mutineers."

Half an hour's trot brought them to such a point of vantage as they
desired. Crouched in some bushes at the edge of a clump of trees, not
fifty yards from the road, they awaited the passage of the regiment. They
had not been in their hiding-place five minutes when the head of the
column appeared.

"They march in very good order, Ned; do you think that they would keep up
such discipline as that after they had mutinied?"

"I don't know. Dirk; but they'll want all their discipline when they come
to meet our men. For anything we know we may be the two last white men
left in India; but when the news gets to England there will be such a cry
throughout the land that, if it needed a million men to win back the
country, I believe they would be found and sent out. There! There are two
mounted officers; I can't see their color, but I don't think they are
white."

"No, Ned; I am sure they are not white; then they must be mutineers. Look!
Look! Don't you see they have got three prisoners? There they are,
marching in the middle of that column; they are officers; and oh! Ned! I
do think that the middle one's father." And the excited boy, with tears of
joy running down his cheeks, would have risen and dashed out had not Ned
forcibly detained him.

"Hush! Dick! and keep quiet. Yes! It is father! and Dunlop and Manners.
Thank God!" he said, in deep gratitude.

"Well, let's go to them, Ned; we may as well be all together."

"Keep quiet, Dick," the elder said, holding him down again; "you will
destroy their chance as well as ours. We must rescue them if we can."

"How, Ned, how?"

"I don't know yet, Dick; but we must wait and see; anyhow, we will try.
There goes the bugle for a halt. I expect they have done their day's
march. Come on, Dick; we must get out of this. When they have once pitched
their tents they will scatter about, and, as likely as not, some will come
into this wood. Let us get further back, so as to be able to see them
pitch their tents, and watch, if we can, where they put the prisoners."

The regiment piled arms, and waited until the bullock-carts came up with
the tents. These were taken out and pitched on the other side of the road,
and facing the wood. The ground being marked out, the men were told off to
their quarters, and the poles of the tents aligned with as much regularity
and exactness as could have been used when the regiment possessed its
white officers.

Near the quarter-guard tent--that is, the tent of the men engaged upon
actual duty--a small square tent was erected; and into this the three
officers, who were handcuffed, were thrust; and two sentries, one in
front, the other at the back of the tent, were placed.

"Now, Dick, we know all about it; let us get further away, and talk over
how it is to be managed."

The task was one of extreme difficulty, and the boys were a long time
arranging the details. Had there been but one sentry, the matter would
have been easy enough: but with two sentries, and with the quarter guard
close at hand, it seemed at first as if no possible scheme could be hit
upon. The sentry at the back of the tent must be the one to be disposed
of, and this must be done so noiselessly as not to alarm the man in front.
Each marched backward and forward some eight paces to the right, and as
much to the left, of the tent, halting occasionally. When both marched
right and left at the same time, they were in sight of each other except
during the time of passing before and behind the tent; when they walked
alternately, the tent hid them altogether from each other.

"I suppose there is no chance of our being able to gag that fellow, Ned?
It's horrid to think of killing a man in cold blood."

"There is no help for it, Dick. If he were alone, we might gag him; as it
is, he must be killed. These scoundrels are all mutineers and murderers.
This regiment has, no doubt, like the others, killed its officers, and all
the men, women, and children at the station. I would not kill the man
unless it could be helped, but our father's life depends upon it; and to
save him I would, if there were no other way, cut the throats of the whole
regiment while they were asleep! This is no ordinary war, Dick; it is a
struggle for existence; and though I'm sure I hate the thought of it, I
shall not hesitate for an instant."

"I shan't hesitate," the midshipman said; "but I wish the fellow could
make a fight of it. However, as he would kill me if he had a chance, he
mustn't grumble if I do the same for him. Now, Ned, you tell me exactly
what I am to do, and you may rely on my doing it."

Every minute detail of the scheme was discussed and arranged; and then, as
the sun set, the boys lit a fire in a nullah and boiled some rice, and ate
their food with lighter hearts than they had done since they left
Sandynugghur, for the knowledge that their father had escaped death had
lifted a heavy burden from their hearts. As to the danger of the
expedition that they were about to undertake, with the happy recklessness
of boys they thought but little of it.

Across the plain they could see the campfires, but as the evening went on
these gradually died away, and the sounds which had come faintly across
the still night air ceased altogether. As patiently as might be, they
waited until they guessed that it must be about ten o'clock. The night
was, for the country, cold--a favorable circumstance, as the natives, who
are very chilly, would be less likely to leave their tents if they felt
restless. The moon was now half full and shining brightly, giving a light
with which the boys could well have dispensed.

"Now, Dick, old boy, let's be moving. May God help us in our night's
work!"

They made a considerable detour to approach the camp in the rear, where
they rightly judged that the Sepoys, having no fear whatever of any
hostile body being near, would have placed no sentries.

"Listen!" Dick said, as they were pausing to reconnoiter; "that sounded
like a cannon in the far distance."

There was no doubt of it; faintly, but quite distinct, across the air came
the sound of heavy cannon fired at regular intervals.

"Those cannon must be fired as a salute to some great chief newly arrived
at Delhi--we should not fire so late, but I suppose they are not
particular," Ned said; "we calculated it was not more than twenty-five
miles off, and we should hear them at that distance easily. We had better
wait a few minutes to see if any one comes out to listen to it."

But there was no movement among the white tents. Then they stole quietly
into the camp.

The tents of the Indian native regiments are large, oblong tents, with two
poles, holding thirty men each. They are manufactured at the government
prison at Jubbalpore, and are made of thick cotton canvas, lined with red
or blue cotton. In the daytime they open right along one side, the wall of
the tent being propped outward, with two slight poles, so as to form a
sort of veranda, and shade the inside of the tent while admitting the air.
At night-time, in the cool season, this flap is let down and the tent
closed. In front of the tents the muskets of the men inside are piled.

Into one of these tents Dick crawled, Ned watching outside. When Dick
first entered it was so dark that he could see nothing; but the moonlight
penetrated dimly through the double cotton, and he was soon able to
discover objects around. The ground was all occupied by sleeping figures,
each wrapped up from head to foot in his blanket, looking like so many
mummies. Their uniforms were folded, and placed between their heads and
the wall of the tent. Six of these, with the same number of caps, and six
ammunition pouches and belts, and a uniform cloak, taken carefully off one
of the sleepers, Dick collected and passed out through the door of the
tent to Ned. Not a sleeper stirred while he did so, and he crept quietly
out, with the first part of his task accomplished. Gathering the things
together, the boys made all speed back to a clump of trees half a mile in
the rear of the camp. Here Ned put on one of the uniforms and the cloak,
and they then started back again for the camp.

The sentries upon the prisoners' tent were changed at twelve o'clock, and
a few minutes later the sentry at the rear of the tent saw one of his
comrades come out of one of the large tents close to the end of his beat.
He was wrapped in his blanket, and his face was tied up with a cloth.
Coughing violently, he squatted himself in front of his tent, and rocked
himself to and fro, with his hands to his face, uttering occasional
groans. This was all so natural--for the natives of India suffer much from
neuralgia in the cold weather--that the sentry thought nothing of the
matter. He continued to pace his beat, turning back each time when within
a yard or two of the sufferer. The third time he did so the figure dropped
off his blanket, and, with a sudden bound, threw himself on the sentry's
back; at the same moment a Sepoy in uniform darted out from the tent. One
hand of the assailant--in which was a damp cloth--was pressed tightly over
the mouth and nostrils of the sentry; the other grasped the lock of his
musket, so that it could not be discharged. Thrown backward off his
balance, taken utterly by surprise, the sentry was unable even to
struggle, and in an instant the second antagonist plunged a bayonet twice
into his body, and he fell a lifeless mass on the ground. It was the work
of an instant to drag the body a yard or two into the shadow of the tent,
and before the other sentry appeared from the opposite side of the
prisoner's tent the native was rocking himself as before; the sentry,
wrapped in his cloak, was marching calmly on his beat. The whole affair
had lasted but twenty seconds, and had passed as noiselessly as a dream.

The next time the sentry in front was hidden from view the native started
from his sitting position and stole up behind the tent. Cautiously and
quietly he cut a slit in the canvas and entered. Then he knelt down by the
side of one of the sleepers, and kissed him. He moved in his sleep, and
his disturber, putting his hand on his mouth to prevent sudden speech,
shook him gently. The major opened his eyes.

"Father, it is I--Richard; hush! do not speak."

Then, as the bewildered man gradually understood what was said, his son
fell on his neck, kissing him with passionate delight.

After the first rapturous joy of the recognition was over, "Ned and the
girls?" Major Warrener asked.

"The girls are at present safe," Dick said; "Ned is outside behind. He is
the sentry. Now, father, wake the others, and then let us steal off. Take
off your boots; the men's tents are only ten yards behind; once there, you
are safe. I will let Ned know when you are ready, and he will occupy the
sentry. We can't silence him, because he is within sight of the sentry of
the quarter-guard."

Major Warrener aroused his sleeping companions, and in a few whispered
words told them what had happened. In silence they wrung Dick's hand, and
then taking off their boots, stole one by one out of the tent. As Ned
passed he exchanged a silent embrace with his father. The next time the
sentry in front was passing before the tent, a heavy stone, hurled by Ned,
crashed into a bush upon the other side of the road. The sentry halted
instantly, and, with gun advanced, listened, but he could hear nothing,
for his comrade was at that instant seized with a fit of coughing.

After standing in a listening attitude for three or four minutes the Sepoy
supposed that the noise must have been caused by some large bird suddenly
disturbed in the foliage.

"Did you hear anything?" he asked Ned, as their path crossed.

"Nothing," Ned answered, continuing his march.

For another quarter of an hour he passed backward and forward, his only
fear being that the sentry might take it into his head to open the tent
and look in to see if the prisoners were safe. In a quarter of an hour he
knew that the fugitives would have gained the trees, and would have time
to put on the Sepoy uniforms before he reached them; and also, by the aid
of a couple of large stones, have got rid of their handcuffs, lie might
therefore be off to join them.

Waiting till the sentry was at the other end of his beat, he slipped round
the tent, stripped off his cloak, lay down his musket and belt--for Dick
had arranged that they should carry off five muskets in their retreat--
threw off the Sepoy jacket, and in light running order, darted through the
tents. He calculated that he should have at least a couple of minutes
start before his absence was discovered, another minute or two before the
sentry was sufficiently sure of it to hail the quarter-guard and report
the circumstance. Then would follow the discovery of the escape of the
prisoners; but by that time he would be far out on the plain, and even if
seen, which was unlikely, he was confident that he could outrun any
native.

His anticipations turned out correct; he was already some distance off
when he heard the call of the sentry to the quarter-guard, followed almost
immediately by a still louder shout, that told that he had discovered the
flight of the prisoners; then came the sound of a musket shot, a drum beat
the alarm, and a babel of sounds rang on the still air. But by this time
Ned was halfway to the clump of trees, and three minutes later he was in
his father's arms. There was no time to talk then. Another coat was
hurried on to him, an ammunition belt and pouch thrown over his shoulder,
and Captain Manners carrying his musket until he should have quite
recovered breath, the five went off at a steady trot, which after a
quarter of an hour broke into a walk--for there was no fear of pursuit--in
the direction in which they knew Delhi to lie.




CHAPTER V.

BACK UNDER THE FLAG.


"How far is it to Delhi? We heard the guns there just now."

"Not thirty miles."

"Have you heard how things are going on there?" Dick asked.

"According to the Sepoy reports, fresh regiments are pouring in from all
quarters; and they boast that they are going to drive us out of the
country. Our troops are still at Meerut, and a force is gathering at
Umballah; but they are after all a mere handful."

"Do you think there is any chance of help coming to us?"

"None for the present. The Sepoys say that every station has gone down
except Agra, Allahabad, and Benares, and that these are soon to go too.
Cawnpore and Lucknow have risen."

"Are all the whites killed everywhere?"

"I am afraid they are all killed where there are no white troops; but
there, we must hope that they are making a stand. We shall be a long time
before we know anything. It is but a week yet since our station went;
seven days longer since Delhi rose."

"It seems ages ago," Ned said. "You don't mean to try and get to Meerut
to-night, I hope; we could walk as far if it were absolutely necessary,
but we have done a long day's walk already."

"No, no, Ned. I only want to get well away from our late camp. To-morrow
we will get near the river, hide all next day, and cross after nightfall.
There is a clump of trees; we will pass the night there; I think we are
safe enough now. The mutineers are too anxious to be at Delhi to spend
much time in looking for us. Now, first of all, let us get a fire."

"We have never had a fire at night," Dick said, "since we started; we have
been too much afraid of being seen."

"There is not much chance of its being observed in a wood; especially if
the bushes are thick. We are four miles at least from the camp, and we are
all wet through with dew. Now for sticks."

The whole party soon collected a pile of sticks; and the major was about
to scatter some powder among the dead leaves, when Ned said, "We have
matches, father."

"Oh, that's all right, Ned. There we are, fairly alight. Yes, we have
chosen the place well; there are bushes all around. Now," he said, when
the fire had burned up brightly, "let us hear the full story of what has
passed; you gave us a short account when we first got free. Now let us
hear all about it."

Ned and Dick told the story--sometimes one taking it up, sometimes the
other. There were many questions from their auditors, and expressions of
warm approval of their conduct; and Captain Dunlop threatened under his
breath that if he ever had a chance he would not leave one cake of mud
upon another in the village where Kate was wounded. He and Captain Manners
proposed that they should go back, and afford what protection they could
to the girls. But Major Warrener at once negatived this idea.

"If they could come straight back with us, I should say yes," he said,
"for with us five we might hope to get them through safely; but even that
would be very risky, for the larger the party is, the more easily it
attracts attention, and the whole country is alive with rebels marching to
Delhi. But as Rose cannot be fit to travel for weeks, we have no choice in
the matter. They must remain where they are, and we can only hope and pray
for their safety. Our duty lies clearly at Meerut, where every man who can
sight a rifle will be wanted most urgently. Now let us be off to sleep;
the fire has burned low, and in another hour or two it will be daybreak;
however, there will be no reveille, and we can sleep on with lighter
hearts than we have had for some time."

"What figures you are in those uniforms!" Dick said, laughing, next
morning; "you can scarcely move in them, and they won't meet by eight or
nine inches. It does not seem to me that they are any disguise at all. Any
one could see in a moment that they were not made for you."

"They are wretchedly uncomfortable, Dick." his father said; "and, as you
say, any one could see they were not made for us. But they are useful. As
we go along, any one who saw us at a distance would take us for a
straggling party of mutineers making our way to Delhi; while the bright
scarlet of our own uniform would have told its tale miles off."

"I shall be glad enough to get rid of mine, Dick; I feel as if I had got
into a boy's jacket by mistake. Jack Sepoy has no shoulders to speak of;
as far as height goes he is well enough; but thirty Sepoys on parade take
up no more room than twenty English. I had to take my jacket off last
night and lay it over my shoulders; I might as well have tried to go to
sleep in a vise. There! major; do you hear the music? These rascals are on
the march again."

The strains of music came very faintly to the ear, for the bivouac was
nearly a mile from the road.

"That is all right," the major said. "Now they have gone by, we can be
moving. We must give them an hour's start."

"Now, father, we have not heard your adventures yet; please tell us all
about them."

"Well, we have not had so much variety as you, but we have gone through a
good deal. You know we had talked over the best possible course to take in
case of an attack, come when it might. We had arranged what each should do
in case of a night attack, or of a rising upon parade; and we had even
considered the probability of being set upon when gathered in the
messroom. We had all agreed that if taken by surprise, resistance would
mean certain death; they would shoot us down through the doors and
windows, and we should be like rats in a cage. We agreed, therefore, that
in case of an attack, a simultaneous attempt to break out must be made,
and we had even settled upon the window by which we should go. The married
men were, of course, to make for their bungalows, except where, as in my
case, I had made other arrangements; and the rest to various bungalows
agreed upon, where traps were to be in readiness. Dunlop, Manners, and
myself had agreed to make for Dunlop's, as it was the nearest, and his
trap was to be ready that evening.

"There were not many who believed in a mutiny that night. The villains,
only in the morning, having sworn to be faithful, deceived most of us, for
it was very hard to believe they could be capable of such diabolical
treachery. Swords and pistols were, of course, taken off, but instead of
being left in the anteroom, were brought into the messroom. Some fellows
put theirs in a corner, others against the wall behind them. I was sitting
between Dunlop and Manners, and we were, as it happened, at the corner
nearest the window fixed upon for the bolt. Things went on all right till
dinner was over, There was an insolent look about some of the servants'
faces I did not like, but nothing to take hold of. I pointed it out to
Dunlop, and we agreed that the plan arranged was the best possible; and
that, as resistance would be of no use, if at each of the eight large
windows and the two doors a stream of musketry fire were being poured in,
we would make a rush straight for the window. Presently the colonel rose
and gave 'The Queen.' We all rose, and as if--as I have no doubt it was--
the toast was the signal, there was a sudden trampling in the veranda
outside, and at every window appeared a crowd of Sepoys, with their arms
in their hands. I shouted, 'To the window for your lives!' and without
stopping to get my sword, I dashed at the Sepoys who were there. Dunlop
and Manners were with me, and before the scoundrels had time to get their
guns to their shoulders, we were upon them. We are all big men; and our
weight and impetus, and the surprise, were too much for them; we burst
through them, standing as they did four or five deep, as if they had been
reeds. They gave a yell of rage and astonishment as they went down like
ninepins; but we scarcely saw it, for as we went through them the musketry
fire broke out round the messroom.

[Illustration: BEFORE THE SCOUNDRELS HAD TIME TO GET THEIR GUNS TO THEIR
SHOULDERS, WE WERE UPON THEM.]

"Whether any of the others tried to follow us, we don't know. I think most
of them forgot their arrangement, and rushed to their arms: certainly some
of them did so, for we heard the crack of revolvers between the rifle
shots. We made straight across the parade for Dunlop's bungalow, with
musket balls flying in all directions, as soon as the fellows we had gone
through recovered from their first astonishment; but they are not good
shots at the best, and a man running at his top speed is not an easy mark
by moonlight. We heard yells and musket shots all round, and knew that
while a part of the regiment was attacking us, parties were told off to
each bungalow. By the time we had got over the few hundred yards to
Dunlop's, the whistling of the bullets round us had pretty well ceased,
for the fellows had all emptied their muskets; besides, we were nearly out
of range. None of them were near us, for they had stopped in their run to
fire; they were too much interested in the massacre going on inside, and
we seemed pretty safe; when, just as I entered the gate of the compound, a
stray bullet hit me on the head, and down I went like a log.

"Happily, the syce had proved faithful; he had been with Dunlop ever since
he joined the regiment, and Dunlop once risked his life to save him from a
tiger. There was the syce with the trap. He had not dared bring it out
till the first shot was fired, lest his fellow-servants, who were all
traitors, should stop it; but the instant it began, he came round. They
ran the horse up to where I was lying, lifted me in, and jumped in, and
drove out of the gate as a score of fellows from the mess-house came
making toward the bungalow. We had fifty yards' start, but they fired away
at us, a ball passing through the syce's leg as he scrambled up behind.
The horse went along at a gallop; but we were not safe, for parties were
carrying on their hellish work in every bungalow, Dunlop and Manners were
maddened by the screams they heard; and if it had not been for having me
under their charge, and by the thoughts of the girls, I believe they would
have jumped out and died fighting. A few of the black devils, hearing
wheels, ran out and fired; but we kept on at a full gallop till we were
well out of the place. A mile further Dunlop found the horse begin to
slacken his speed, and to go very leisurely. He jumped out to see what was
the matter, and found, as he expected, that the horse had been hit. He had
one bullet in the neck, another in the side. It was evident that it could
not go much further. They lifted me out and carried me to a patch of
bushes thirty yards from the road. The syce was told to drive on quietly
till the horse dropped. Dunlop gave him money and told him to meet us at
Meerut."

"Why did you not keep him with you? he would have been very useful?" Dick
asked.

"You see I wanted to get the trap as far away as possible before the horse
fell," Captain Dunlop said. "We did not know how severely wounded the
major was; indeed, we both feared he was killed; but the mutineers, when
they found the dead horse in the morning, were certain to make a search in
its neighbourhood, and would have found your father had he been close by
laid up with a wound."

"Happily I now began to come to," the major went on, continuing his story.
"The ball was nearly spent, and had given me a nasty scalp wound, and had
stunned me, but I now began to come round. The instant I was able to
understand where I was or what had happened, Dunlop and Manners, who were
half-wild with excitement and grief, made me promise to lie quiet, while
they went back to see what had become of you all. Of course I consented.
They were away about three hours, for they had to make a circle of the
cantonments, as our bungalow was quite at the other end. They brought
cheering news. They had first been to the house, and found it utterly
destroyed as they expected. That told them nothing; for if you had been
killed, your bodies would probably have been burned with the house. Then
they went out to the tope of trees where it was agreed that you should, if
possible, first fly. Here they found a pocket-handkerchief of Rose's; and
going round to the other side, found by the marks upon the soil that four
of you had started together. With hearts immensely lightened by the
discovery that you had, at any rate, all escaped from the first massacre,
they hurried back to gladden me with the news. I was past understanding it
when they arrived, for the intense pain in my head and my terrible anxiety
about you had made me delirious. It would have been certain death to stay
so near the road, so they dipped their handkerchiefs in water, and tied
them round my head; and then supporting me, one on each side, they half-
dragged, half-carried, me to a deserted and half-ruinous cottage, about a
mile away.

"Next day I was still feverish, but fortunately no one came near us.
Dunlop and Manners went out at night, and got a few bananas. Next morning
our regiment marched away; and Dunlop then appealed to an old cottager for
shelter and food for us all. He at once promised to aid us, and I was
removed to his cottage, where everything in his power was done for me. I
was now convalescent, and a day later we were talking of making a move
forward. That night, however, the cottage was surrounded--whether the
peasant himself or some one else betrayed us, we shall never know--but the
men that we saw there belonged to a regiment of mutineers that had marched
in that afternoon from Dollah. We saw at once that resistance was useless,
and we were, moreover, without arms. Had we had them, I have no doubt we
should have fought and been killed. As it was, we were bound and marched
into the camp at Sandynugghur. It was resolved to take us in triumph into
Delhi; and we were marched along with the regiment till you saw us. We had
talked over every conceivable plan of escape, and had determined that we
would try to-night, which will be the last halt before they get to Delhi.
It is very unlikely that we should have succeeded, but it was better to be
shot down than to be taken to Delhi and given over to the mob to torture
before they killed us. I am convinced we had no chance of really getting
off, and that you have saved our lives, just as Dunlop and Manners saved
mine, at the risk of their own, on that first night of our flight. And now
let us be on the march."

They had not gone far before the three officers found that it was
impossible to walk in their Sepoy jackets. They accordingly took them off,
and slung them from their muskets. Ned and Dick were fairly fitted. They
halted for the night near the river, about ten miles above Delhi. In the
morning they were off early. By nine o'clock they stood on the bank of the
river, five miles higher up.

The river is wide, or rather the bed of the river is wide, half a mile at
least; this in the rainy season is full to the brim, but at other times
the stream is not more than half that width. After crossing the river they
would have fifteen miles still to traverse to arrive at Meerut; and it was
probable that the whole intervening country was in the hands of the
Sepoys.

"Had we not better keep this side of the river for a bit, father?" Ned
asked.

"No, my boy; we will cross here after dark, and make straight for Meerut.
If we can't find a boat, we will each cut a large bundle of rushes, to act
as a lifebuoy and carry your guns and ammunition, and so swim across after
it is dark."

"Well, major, as the sun is getting awfully hot, I vote we get into the
shade of those stunted trees, and have a nap till the afternoon. It won't
do to begin even to make the raft till the sun is down."

Captain Dunlop's proposition was carried into effect; but it is
questionable whether any of the party slept much, for they were excited by
the thought that in a few hours they would be with friends, once more
soldiers instead of fugitives, with power to fight in defense of their
sovereign's dominions, and of the helpless women and children exposed to
the fury of the atrocious mutineers. With these thoughts mingled the
anxiety which was wearing them all, although each refrained from talking
about it, as to the safety of the girls, whose lives wore dependent upon
the fidelity of a native and his servants.

Over and over again, since they met the boys, had they regretted that they
had not gone back to watch over them; but the fact that Rose might be
weeks before she was able to stand, and that, as their protector had said,
the presence of Europeans near them might be detected, and would be a
source of constant danger, convinced them that they had taken the proper
course. They knew, too, that in acting as they had done they were
performing their duty; and that at a moment when the fate of British India
trembled in the balance, the place of every soldier was by the side of the
British troops who still maintained the old flag flying in the face of
increasing numbers of the enemy. Still, although they knew that they were
doing their duty, and were, moreover, taking the wisest course, the
thoughts of the girls alone in the midst of danger, with one of them down
with fever, tried them terribly, and they longed with a fierce desire for
the excitement of work and of danger to keep them from thinking of it.

"Here, boys, is a ear of Indian corn apiece; eat that and then get to
work."

The frugal meal was soon over, and they then set to work, cutting down,
breaking off, and tearing up large reeds with which to make floats. The
boys had knives, but the others had been stripped of everything they had
at the time of their capture. In about an hour, however, five bundles were
made, each some six feet long and nearly three feet thick. The muskets and
ammunition pouches were fastened on these, and soon after it was quite
dark they entered the water.

"There are no crocodiles, I hope," Dick whispered to Ned.

"Nothing to fear in these large rivers; the chances of meeting one are
very small."

"All right," Dick said. "Of course we've got to risk it. But they're as
bad as sharks; and sharks, as the Yankee said, is pison. Well, here goes."

When the bundles were placed in the water they were lashed side by side
with long trailing creepers which grew abundantly among the rushes; and
they were thus secured from the risk of turning over from the weights on
the top. Upon the raft thus formed their clothes were placed, and then,
side by side, pushing it before them, the party shoved off from shore. In
twenty minutes they touched ground on the other side. They dressed,
examined their muskets to see if they were in good order, and then started
in the direction in which they knew Meerut to be. Several times they
paused and listened, for they could occasionally hear the noise of
galloping men, and it was evident that there were troops of some kind or
other moving about.

They walked for some hours until they thought that they could not be far
from their destination, and had begun to congratulate themselves upon
being near their friends, when the sound of a strong body of men was heard
sweeping along the level plain across which they were now passing.

"There is a small building ahead," the major said; "run for that; they are
coming across here."

They were seen, for a shout of "Who goes there?" in Hindostanee was heard.

"Give me your musket, Dick," Captain Dunlop exclaimed. For the lad, with
the weight of his musket and ammunition, could hardly keep up with the
others.

Just in time they reached the building in front of them, rushed in, and
closed the door as the cavalry swept up. It was a small temple; a building
of massive construction, with one little window about six inches square,
and on the same side a strong door.

"Pile everything against the door," the major cried. "Dunlop, fire at once
at them. Our only chance is to hold out with the hope that we may be
heard, and that some of our fellows may come to the rescue."

Captain Dunlop fired just as the troopers dashed up to the door.

"Now, Manners, steady, pick off your man," the major said, as, aided by
the boys, he jammed a beam of wood between the door and the wall, at such
an angle that, except by breaking it to pieces, the door could not be
forced.

"Now," he said, "it's my turn;" and he fired into the enraged enemy. "Now,
Ned, steady. Are you loaded again, Dunlop?"

"Yes, major; just ready."

"Dick, you follow; take good aim."

The cavalry answered their fire, every shot of which was taking effect, by
a confused discharge of their pistols at the door and window.

"Draw off!" their leader shouted; "rear-rank men hold the horses, front-
rank men dismount and break in the door."

The order was obeyed; and the troopers rushed forward on foot, and were
met by a steady fire, to which the straggling return of their pistols was
but an inefficient answer. Vainly the mutineers hacked at the door with
their sabers and struck it with their pommels.

"Throw yourselves against it, all at once," cried their leader; and a
dozen men sent themselves against the door; it creaked and strained, but
the beam kept it in its place.

"You keep up the fire through the window," said the major; "the boys and I
will fire through the door."

Yells and shrieks followed each shot through the door, and after three or
four minutes the troopers drew off.

"Any one hurt?" the major asked.

"I have got a bullet in my shoulder," said Captain Dunlop.

But that was the only reply. There was a shout outside, and Manners
exclaimed: "Confound the fellows, they have got a big log of wood that
will soon splinter the door."

"We must stop them as long as we can," said the major, as he fired among
the men who were advancing with the log.

Several Sepoys fell before they got up to the house, but they pressed on,
and, at the first blow given by the battering-ram driven by the men, the
door split from top to bottom.

"Fix bayonets," the major said. "Now, Manners, you and I will hold them
back. Not more than two can come at once, and their swords are of no use
against bayonets in a narrow space. Dunlop, will you stand in reserve? you
have still got your right hand; use your bayonet as a dagger if a rush
comes. Boys, you go on loading and firing; put in four balls each time. If
they get in, of course use your bayonets; there goes the door!"

A shout burst from the natives as the last portion of the door dropped
from its hinges, and the doorway was open. There was, however, no
inclination betrayed to make a rush.

"Forward! Death to the infidel dogs!" shouted their officer.

"Suppose you lead us," said one of the troopers; "the officers always show
the way."

"Come, then," cried an old officer, on whose breast hung several medals;
"follow me!"

Drawing his sword, he rushed forward, followed by twenty of his men. But
as he passed over the threshold he and the trooper next to him fell
beneath the bayonet thrusts of Major Warrener and his companion. The next
two, pushed forward by their comrades, shared the same fate; while, as
they fell, the muskets of Ned and Dick sent their contents into the mass.
The rest recoiled from the fatal doorway, while the defenders set up a
cheer of triumph. It was drowned in a crash of musketry, mingled with a
cry of surprise and despair from the natives, as a body of British
soldiers leaped from the wood, and followed their volley by an impetuous
charge. The cavalry on the plain turned and fled at a gallop; and in five
minutes, but for a few dark figures prostrate on the plain, not an enemy
was in sight.

"Well, gentlemen, you have made a stout defense," the officer in command
said, as he returned to the shrine, outside which the little party had
gathered. "It seems as if you could have done without my help. Who are
you, may I ask? And where have you sprung from?"

"Why, Sibbold, is it you? You haven't forgotten Warrener? And here are
Dunlop and Manners."

"Hurrah!" shouted the officer. "Thank God, old fellows, you are saved; we
fancied that you had all gone down. I am glad;" and he shook hands
enthusiastically with his friends; while two of the officers, coming up,
joined in the hearty greeting.

"Do those two men belong to your regiment?" Captain Sibbold asked. "If so,
they are wonders; for I don't know a case as yet where any of the men
proved true when the rest mutinied."

"They are my sons," Major Warrener answered.

"What?" exclaimed the other, laughing--believing that the major was
joking.

"It's a fact, as you will see when they have got rid of the stains on
their faces," he replied; while Captain Dunlop added, "and two as fine
young fellows as ever stepped. Do you know that we three were prisoners,
and that these lads rescued us from the middle of a pandy regiment. If
they hadn't we should have been dead men before now. And now have you got
anything to eat at Meerut, for we are famishing? In the next place, I have
got a bullet in my shoulder, and shall enjoy my food all the more after it
has been taken out. Our stories are long and will keep. How go things
here?"

"Not very brightly, Dunlop; however, that will keep, too; now let us be
off. Have we any casualties, sergeant?" he asked a non-commissioned
officer who came up for orders.

"None, sir."

"What is the enemy's loss?"

"There are fifteen which can be fairly counted to us, sir, and nineteen
here."

"That's a respectable total. Fall in, lads," he said to the men who had
gathered round, "and let us get back. You will be glad to hear that these
officers have escaped from the massacre at Sandynugghur."

There was a hearty cheer of satisfaction from the men, for Englishmen were
knit very closely together in those terrible days. Then, falling in, the
two companies of the Sixtieth Rifles marched back again to their
cantonments at Meerut.




CHAPTER VI.

A DASHING EXPEDITION.


On arriving at the cantonments, the party were soon surrounded by the
troops, who had been called under arms at the sound of distant firing, but
had been dismissed again on the arrival of a message to the effect that
the enemy had fled. The news had spread rapidly that some fugitives had
escaped from Sandynugghur, where it was supposed that the massacre had
been general; and officers pressed forward to shake their hands, and the
men uttered words of kindly congratulation and welcome. The greeting
swelled into a cheer as the detachment fell out, and, scattering among
their comrades, told of the desperate defense, and of the slaughter
inflicted upon the enemy by this handful of men. The fugitives were, of
course, taken first to the messroom, Captain Dunlop being, however,
carried off by the surgeon to his quarters, to have his wound examined and
attended to.

It seemed almost like a dream to the worn and weary party, as they sat
down again to a table laid with all the brightness and comfort of
civilization, and felt that they were indeed safe among friends. Many were
the questions asked them by officers who had friends and acquaintances
among the military and civilians at Sandynugghur; and the fugitives
learned that they were, so far as was known, the only survivors from the
massacre. The story of their escape, and the safety of the girls, was told
briefly, and listened to with eager interest; and very deep and hearty
were the congratulations which the boys received for their share in the
history. In return, Major Warrener learned what had taken place in the
last ten days.

The story was not reassuring; tidings of evil were coming from all parts.
As yet the number of stations where risings had taken place was
comparatively small; but the position was everywhere critical. In Agra,
Allahabad, and Benares, the attitude of the native troops and population
was more than doubtful. At Lucknow and Cawnpore every precaution was being
taken, but a rising was regarded as inevitable. In fact everywhere, save
in the Punjab, trouble had either come or was coming. General Anson was
collecting in all haste a force at Umballah, which was intended to advance
upon Delhi--where the ex-king had been proclaimed Emperor of India--but
his force would necessarily be an extremely small one; and no help could
possibly arrive up country for many weeks. There was therefore only the
Punjab to look to for aid. Happily, the troops of the Madras and Bombay
presidencies had so far remained faithful.

"I suppose you have a good many men from Delhi, civilians and military, as
well as from other places?"

"Oh, yes, we are crowded; every bungalow has been given up to the ladies,
and we all sleep under canvas."

"I intend to ask leave to get up a troop of volunteers," Major Warrener
said; "in the first place to go out and bring in my daughter and niece,
and afterward to do any scouting or other duty that may be required."

"There has already been a talk of forming the unattached officers and
civilians into a sort of irregular cavalry, so I should think that you
will get leave; but it will be a hazardous business to make your way
eighty miles through the country, especially as the mutineers are marching
in all directions toward Delhi."

The next morning Major Warrener obtained permission, without difficulty,
to carry out his scheme; and the news no sooner was known through the
cantonments that a body of irregular horse was to be formed for scouting
and general purposes, and that unattached officers might, until they
received further orders, join it, than the tent which had been assigned to
Major Warrener was besieged by men anxious to join a corps which seemed
likely to afford them a chance of striking an early blow at the mutineers.

Hitherto, the officers who had escaped from Delhi and other stations,
those who had come in from police duties in isolated districts, and
civilians, both merchants and government officials, had been fretting that
they could not be doing something to aid the great work of holding India,
and punishing those who had murdered their friends and relations. Major
Warrener's Light Horse, as it was to be called, afforded the opportunity
desired, and by the next morning eighty-five volunteers had enrolled
themselves. Some thirty-five of these were officers, the rest civilians.
Many of them had ridden in, others had driven, so that most of them were
already provided with horses. An appeal was made to the officers of the
Meerut garrison, and to the civilians resident there, to give up any
horses they might be able to spare for the public service, while others
were bought from friendly zemindars. In a week the troop were all mounted,
and during this time they had worked hard to acquire a sufficient amount
of cavalry drill to enable them to perform such simple evolutions as might
be necessary. Major Warrener divided the squadron into two troops, each
with a captain and subaltern; all these officers being cavalrymen, as were
the officers who did duty as sergeants. Thus Major Warrener had the
general command, each troop being maneuvered by its own officers. In the
ranks as simple privates were two majors and a dozen captains--among these
latter, Captain Manners. Captain Dunlop was for the present in the
surgeon's hands; but he was resolved that when the time came for a start
for the rescue of the girls he would take his place in the ranks. The boys
of course formed part of the troop. The uniform was simple, consisting
simply of a sort of Norfolk jacket made of karkee, a kind of coarse brown
holland of native make. Each man carried a revolver, and sword belt of
brown leather. Their headgear was a cap of any kind, wrapped round and
round with the thick folds of a brown puggaree. Beyond the Norfolk jacket
and puggaree there was no actual uniform. Most of the men had hunting
breeches, many had high boots, others had gaiters; but these were minor
points, as were the horses' equipments.

Nothing had been said as to the intended expedition to bring in the
fugitives, as native spies might have carried the news to the rebels, and
so caused a renewed search to be made for their hiding-place. There was,
therefore, a deep feeling of satisfaction, as well as of surprise, when,
on the tenth day after the formation of the corps, the men were told, on
being dismissed from morning parade, that the squadron would parade for
duty at evening gunfire; that each man was to be provided with a blanket
and a haversack, with cooked food sufficient for four days, and a bag with
twenty pounds of forage for his horse, each horse to be well fed before
coming on parade.

Had the route been free from enemies, the distance might have been done in
two long night marches; but it would be necessary to make a detour on
starting, so as to avoid striking the main road, as on the way out it was
all-important to avoid detection, as the enemy might muster in such
strength that their return would be difficult and dangerous in the
extreme. The girls once in their hands, the return journey would be easy,
as they could avoid any infantry, and had no fear of being able to cut
their way through any body of cavalry whom they might accidentally come
across, especially as they would have all the advantage of a surprise.
Half an hour after sunset the squadron rode out from the lines at Meerut,
amid a hearty cheer from the many troops at the station, who, hearing that
Warrener's Light Horse were off on an expedition against the mutineers,
had assembled to see the start. Major Warrener rode at the head of the
squadron, with Captain Kent, who commanded the first troop, by his side,
and behind them came two native guides well acquainted with the country.
These had been dressed in the uniform of a native cavalry regiment, in
order that if they passed any village and were challenged, they could ride
forward and represent the troop as a body of native cavalry sent out from
Delhi on a mission to a friendly rajah. The precaution was unnecessary.
During two long night marches, with occasional halts to rest the horses,
they rode without interruption. They passed through several villages; but
although the tramp of the horses and the rattle of sabers must have been
heard by the inhabitants, none stirred, for the mutineers took what they
wanted without paying, and were already behaving as masters of the
country; and even thus early the country people were beginning to doubt
whether the fall of the English Raj, and the substitution of the old
native rule, with its war, its bloodshed, and its exactions, was by any
means a benefit, so far as the tillers of the soil were concerned. Just
before morning, on the third day, the troop halted in a thick grove,
having watered their horses at a tank a half-hour before. They had ridden
some seventy miles, and were, they calculated, about fifteen miles from
the place where they had left the girls. It might have been possible to
push on at once, but the day was breaking, and it would have been
inexpedient to tire out the horses when they might want all their speed
and strength on the return journey. Very slowly passed the day. Most of
the men, after seeing to their horses and eating some food, threw
themselves down and slept soundly. But Major Warrener, his sons, and
Captains Dunlop and Manners were far too anxious to follow their example,
for some time. It was more than a fortnight since the boys had left the
ladies, and so many things, of which they hardly dare think, might have
happened since.

"Don't let us talk about it any more," Major Warrener said at last; "we
only add to each other's anxiety. Now, Dunlop, you must positively lie
down; you know Johnson said it was mad in you to get on horseback till
your bone had set firmly, and that it was ten to one in favor of
inflammation coming on again. You have much to go through yet."

[Illustration: AFTER FIVE MINUTES' RIDING, THEY DREW UP THEIR HORSES WITH
A CRY OF DISMAY.]

Gradually sleepiness overcame excitement, and with the exception of ten
men told off as sentries and to look after the horses, the whole party
slept quietly for some hours. It had been determined to start in time to
arrive at the farmhouse before it was dark, as the boys required daylight
to enable them to recognize the locality; besides which it was advisable
to get as far back upon the return journey as possible before daybreak.
The boys were now riding in front with their father.

"That is the wood," Ned said presently. "I know by those three palm trees
growing together in a clump, at a short distance in advance. I noticed
them particularly."

"Where is the house?" Major Warrener asked.

"We ought to see the house," Dick said, and he looked at his brother
apprehensively.

"Yes," Ned said; "we certainly ought to see it."

"You are sure you are not mistaken in the locality?" their father asked.

"Quite sure," the boys answered together; "but the house----"

"Let us gallop on," Major Warrener said, catching the fear which was
expressed in each of his sons' faces.

Five minutes' riding, and they drew up their horses with a cry of dismay.
A large patch of wood ashes marked the spot where the house had stood. No
words were needed; the truth was apparent; the fugitives had been
discovered, and the abode of their protectors destroyed. Their two friends
joined the little group, and the rest of the troop dismounted at a short
distance, respecting the deep pain which the discovery had caused to their
leader.

"What is to be done?" Major Warrener asked, breaking the deep silence.

For a moment no one answered; and then Dick said:

"Perhaps we may find some of the farmer's people in the hut where we
slept, and we may get news from them."

"A capital thought, Dick," said Major Warrener. "We must not give up hope;
there are no bodies lying about, so the farm people are probably alive. As
to the girls, if they are carried off we must rescue them. Where is the
hut?"

A few minutes' walking brought them to it. Even before they reached it it
was evident that it was inhabited, for two or three peons were squatted
near the door. These rose on seeing the group of Englishmen, but made no
attempt at flight. They entered the hut without ceremony, and Ned and Dick
hurried to the side of an old man lying on a heap of straw, while some
females standing near hastily veiled themselves at the entrance of the
strangers.

"Where are the girls? what has happened? are you hurt?" were the three
questions poured out rapidly by Ned, as the boy seized the old man's
hands.

"Is it you, sahibs? I am glad, indeed. I did not break my promise to come
and tell you; but as you see," and he pointed to the bandage which
enveloped his head, "I was wounded, and am still ill."

"But the girls?" asked Ned.

"They have been carried off by the troops of the Rajah of Nahdoor."

"How long since?"

"Thursday, sahib."

"How far off is Nahdoor?"

"Ten miles, sahib."

Major Warrener now took up the interrogation.

"How is the one who was ill?"

"She was better, and was getting stronger again when they carried her
off."

"Do you think they are still at Nahdoor? or that they have been sent into
Delhi?"

"They are still there," the Hindoo said. "I have sent a man each day to
watch, so that directly I got better I might be able to tell you the truth
of the matter. My servant has just returned; they had not left at three
o'clock, and they would be sure not to start after that hour. The rajah
will go with his troops in a few days to pay his respects to the emperor;
he will probably take the _mem_ sahibs with him."

"Thank God for that," Major Warrener said. "If they have not yet been
taken to that horrible den of murder we will save them. I am the father of
one, and the other is my niece," he said to the zemindar; "and I owe their
lives so far to you. The debt of gratitude I can never pay to you--or to
your wife and daughter," he added, turning to the women, who, their first
impulse of alarm over, had now, in the presence of friends, uncovered
their faces, for it is only the higher class of Hindoo women who closely
veil--"for your care in nursing my niece, and for giving them shelter,
when to do so was to risk your lives. This debt I can never pay; but the
losses you have sustained in the destruction of your house, and the loss
of animals, I can happily more than replace. And now tell me how it
happened."

"It was late in the afternoon," the Hindoo said, "when a body of horse
galloped across the field to my door. Their captain rode up to me. 'Are
there any Feringhees hid here, old man?' he asked. 'I have seen no man of
the white race since the troubles began,' I said; and you know I spoke not
falsely. 'I must search the house,' he said; 'there are a party of
fugitives hiding somewhere in this district, and the orders from Delhi are
strict that every Feringhee is to be hunted down and sent there.' 'You
will find no one here,' I said, 'but my women, one of whom is sick.' 'I
must see them,' he said; and he knocked loudly at the door of the women's
room, and ordered them to come out. My wife and daughter came to the door.
'Where is the one who is said to be sick?' he said; 'I must see her too.'
Then, seeing that he was determined to enter, the young _mem_ sahib came
to the door. The captain gave a shout of pleasure; calling in his men, he
entered the room, and, in spite of the entreaties of her sister, brought
the one who was sick out also. She was able to walk, but, as we had agreed
between us should be done if discovery was made, she pretended that she
was almost at the point of death. Some poles were got; a hammock was made;
and borne by four bearers, she was carried away, her sister being placed
on a horse closely guarded. As he turned to ride off the captain's eye
fell upon me. 'Ah! old traitor!' he said; 'I had forgotten you!' and he
drew a pistol and fired at me. I know no more; his men put fire to the
barn and granaries, and drove off our cattle and horses. When he had
ridden off my servants--who thought I was dead--by order of my sorrowing
wife carried me here. Happily, however, by the will of Brahma, the bullet,
instead of going through my skull, glanced off, and I was only stunned. I
had lost much blood, but I determined to set out as soon as I could walk
to bring you the news, and in the meantime have had a watch kept upon
Nahdoor."

Major Warrener and his sons thanked the old peasant and his family in the
warmest terms for what they had done, and the former pressed upon the
farmer a sum of money which would cover all the losses he had sustained.

"Your conduct," he said, "will be reported to the government, and you will
find when these troubles are over that England knows how to reward those
who proved faithful when so many were faithless. Now we will say adieu.
When the war is over the ladies you have so kindly treated will themselves
return to thank you."

In a few minutes the troop was in the saddle again, and directed its march
toward Nahdoor.

On the way Major Warrener questioned his guide as to the strength and
position of the fortress, which lay away from the main road, and had not
been visited by any of the troop--as the major had ascertained before
starting. The account was not reassuring. The guide reported that it stood
on a rock, which rose perpendicularly some eighty or a hundred feet from
the plain; the only access being by a zigzag road cut in the face of the
cliff, with a gateway defended by a gun, and loopholed walls at each turn,
and with a very strong wall all round the edge of the rock. The garrison,
they had learned from the persons at the farm, was some three hundred
strong, the ordinary number of retainers being at present increased by
many fighting men, who had within the last few days joined the rajah, on
hearing that he was going to march to Delhi to fight under the emperor
against the Feringhees.

The troop halted in a wood three miles from Nahdoor; as the guide said
that there was no place nearer where they could be concealed without a
certainty of discovery.

Before morning Major Warrener and his second in command put on native
clothes, which the former bad brought with him, in case it should be
necessary to open communication with the girls, and left the wood with one
of the native guides. The disguises were not meant to deceive close
investigation, and no attempt was made to change the color of the skin,
but they were sufficient to enable the wearers to pass without exciting
suspicion by any one who only saw them at a distance.

When morning broke they stood within half a mile of the fortress, which
answered exactly to the description they had received of it. Gradually--
keeping always at a distance, and availing themselves as far as possible
of cover--they made a circuit of the place, and then returned to the
troop, who were anxiously awaiting their report.

"It is a very hard nut to crack," Major Warrener said to his sons. "There
is no possibility of climbing the rock anywhere, or of attacking in any
way except by the regular ascent. There are eight gateways to be forced
before arriving at the main entrance through the walls. We should require
petards to blow in gates, and ought to have field guns to drive them out
of the gate-houses. I do not say it would be absolutely impossible,
because before now British troops have done what seemed impossible in
India; but the difficulties would be so enormous, the risk of failure so
great, and the loss certainly so crushing, that I should not be justified
in undertaking such a desperate adventure on my own responsibility, and
for my own private ends. We have no right, boys, to cause the loss of some
thirty or forty of these fine young fellows, even to rescue the girls. An
attack by surprise is the only possibility. At present we don't see the
way, but something may turn up to help us. Failing that, our only plan is
to wait till the rajah starts with his following and the girls for Delhi,
and then to attack them on their way. The drawback to this is that he may
not leave for days, and that at any moment we may be discovered. Besides,
there is the difficulty of feeding the horses and ourselves. Now, boys,
you know as much as I do. Think it over while I have a talk with Dunlop
and Manners."

"Manners is at the other end of the wood, father, half a mile away. We
found, after you had gone, that the main Delhi road ran through the
further skirts of the wood, so Manners suggested to Lieutenant Simmons
that he should go with ten men and hide there, so that they could see who
went along the road and perhaps intercept some messenger between Delhi and
Nahdoor."

"A capital idea," Major Warrener said.

Two hours later Captain Manners returned with his party, bringing in two
prisoners.

"Who have you there, Manners?" Major Warrener asked.

"Two of the rascally Third Cavalry, who mutinied at Meerut. This fellow,
as you see, is a native officer; there were two of them and two sowars,
but they showed fight when we surrounded them, and tried to ride through
us, so we had to shoot two of them. They are bearers of a letter from the
Delhi prince to the rajah. Here it is."

Major Warrener looked sternly at the prisoners, who were still wearing
their British uniform, and then ordered them to be taken away and hung at
once.

"What did you do with the others, Manners?"

"We hid their bodies under some bushes at a distance from the road."

"You must go back," the major said, "with another; take Larkin with you.
You must strip off the uniforms and bring them here."

Half an hour later Major Warrener summoned the captains of his two troops,
and took them into council.

"Nothing could be more fortunate than this capture," he said; "it seems to
clear the way for us altogether. What I propose to do is this: that two of
the best linguists of the troop, with the two native guides, should dress
in the uniforms of these scoundrels. They can then go boldly in with the
letter from the prince. They will of course be well received, and will
stay for the night. The two who go as officers will be entertained by the
rajah, and will learn the plan of the state apartments; the other two will
be made welcome by the retainers. When all is quiet at night they must
steal out and wait on the wall. That projecting watch-tower that overhangs
the cliff on the other side would be the best. We will be below. Then a
rope must be lowered. We have two long picketing ropes, either of which
would be long enough, but they would be too bulky to carry in without
suspicion. Our native guides, however, will soon tear up some cloth, and
twist a rope not much thicker than string, but strong enough to hold the
rope. Then the string can be twisted round the body without fear of
detection, and when the time comes lowered, with a stone at the end. We
shall be below with a strong rope ladder, made with the picket-ropes and
bamboo staves; and once fixed, we shall be up in no time. I leave it to
you to decide who are the best linguists. They must of course be asked if
they are willing to undertake it. I will speak to the guides. What do you
think of the general plan?"

"Excellent," the officers said. "It might be as well," one suggested,
"that each of the party should have a light rope wound round him, so that
if one, two, or even three could not slip away, the fourth could still
carry out the plan."

Some other details were arranged, and then the officers went to pick out
the two men who could best pass as natives. There was no difficulty upon
this score, for two of the troop, who had for years commanded large police
districts, spoke the language as perfectly as natives, and these, upon
being asked, readily accepted the duty. The work of making the rope
ladders, and the light ropes for hauling them up, was entered upon, and by
sunset all were ready for the expedition.

It was fortunate that they had no longer to stay in the wood, for during
the day five or six natives who came in to gather wood had to be seized
and bound, and it was certain that a search would be set on foot there
next morning. Fortunately a large field of Indian corn bordered one side
of the wood, and from this both man and horse had satisfied their hunger.

Every detail of the plan was carefully considered and discussed, so that
no mistake could occur; and each of the principal actors in the piece had
his part assigned to him. The two native guides, who had themselves served
as soldiers in native regiments, consented willingly to perform their
parts, and just at sunset the two officers and men rode off to Nahdoor,
bearing the letter from the prince of Delhi to the rajah.

There was high feasting in Nahdoor that night. The rajah had received with
all honor the officers from Delhi. The letter from the prince had promised
him a high command in the army which was to exterminate the last infidel
from the land. It had thanked him for the capture of the white women, and
had begged him to bring them on with him to Delhi, and to come at once
with his own force. From the officers the rajah had heard how the mutiny
was everywhere a success, and that at Lucknow and Cawnpore the troops
would rise in a day or two and massacre all the whites. The evening ended
early, for the officers from Delhi were fatigued with their long ride, and
being shown into a little square marble-lined room off the great hall
where they had supped, were soon apparently asleep on the cushions and
shawls spread for them. The rajah retired to his apartments, and his
officers to their quarters; and although for another hour talking and
laughing went on round the little fires in the courtyard, presently these
too were hushed, and a profound stillness fell upon Nahdoor. Then,
barefooted, the officers from Delhi stole out of their apartment and made
for the outer wall. As they had anticipated, they found no one about;
beyond a sentry at the lower gate there would be no watch kept, and they
reached the watch-tower on the wall without the slightest interruption.
Here two other figures had already arrived, and after throwing down some
small stones as a signal, which was answered by a faint whistle, the ropes
were lowered without delay. One of them was soon seized from below, and
the others being also found and fastened to the rope ladder, the weight of
which was considerable, those above began to draw up. Everything succeeded
admirably. One by one fifty men appeared at the top of the wall. Quietly
they made their way down to the courtyard, and broke up into parties,
taking their places at the entrance to the various buildings; then, all
further need for concealment being at an end, a bugle call sounded loud in
the air. It was answered by another down upon the plain near the gate. The
rajah himself was one of the first to rash out. He was seized and disarmed
before he was aware of what had happened.

"Tell your men to throw down their arms and surrender," Major Warrener
said to him, "or we will put you and every soul here to the sword. The
place is surrounded, and there is no escape. Do you not hear our bugles on
the plain?"

It needed not the rajah's order; the garrison, taken utterly by surprise,
and finding the castle captured by an enemy of unknown strength, threw
down their arms as they came out of their quarters. Orders were sent by
the rajah to the men at the various gates on the hill to come up and lay
down their arms, and the sentry at the lowest of all was to open it to the
troops there. A bugler and ten men were left below, and the rest joined
the party in the castle.

Long ere they had arrived, the joyful meeting of the captives and their
friends had taken place. Rose and Kate had awoke at the sound of the
bugle, but had heeded it little, believing that it was only a Sepoy call.
Even the stir and commotion outside had not disturbed them, and they had
lain quiet until they heard a loud knocking at the door of the women's
apartments, followed by screams from the women, and then--they could
scarcely believe their ears--their names shouted in Major Warrener's
voice. With a cry of delight both sprang up, and seizing shawls, rushed to
the door, and in another moment Kate was in the arms of her father.

"We are all here, dear," he said, after the first wild greeting--"the
boys, and Dunlop, and Manners. Hurry on your clothes, darlings; they are
longing to see you."

The garrison of the castle were all collected in one of the smaller
courts, where twenty troopers, revolver in hand, kept guard over them. The
whole of the arms found in the castle were broken to pieces and thrown
over the walls, and the cannon planted there were first spiked and then
pitched over. The guns on the gates were similarly rendered useless, and
the stores of gunpowder all wetted. The rajah and his two sons, boys of
six and eight, were then told to prepare to accompany the troops, and
warning was given that they would be shot in case an attack was made upon
the force as it returned to Meerut.

"Tell your followers this," Major Warrener said, "and order them to give
no alarm, or to spread the news; for if we are caught your life and that
of your sons will pay forfeit. As it is, you may hope for clemency. You
have as yet taken no part in the insurrection; and although there is no
doubt of your intention, your good conduct in the future may, perhaps,
wipe out the memory of your faults."

It needs not to say anything of the rapturous greeting of the girls and
their brothers and lovers, or the happy half-hour which was spent together
in the great hall while the preparations for the departure were being made
outside. Captain Kent saw to all that there was to be done, leaving the
major free to join the happy party within.

"Are you strong enough to ride, Rose?"

"Oh, I think so, uncle; I have been shamming ill, and they thought I could
not walk; but I am pretty strong, and if I can't ride by myself I must be
tied on to some one else."

"I dare say my horse will carry double," Captain Manners said, laughing.

"Have the women here been kind?" Major Warrener asked.

The girls shook their heads:

"Not very, papa; they have been talking of Delhi;" and Kate shuddered.

The major frowned; he could guess what they must have suffered. He went to
the door.

"Kent, order the women out of the _zenana_ into one of the other rooms.
Tell them that they will all be searched as they come out, and that if one
brings out an ornament or a jewel with her she will be put to death. Of
course you will not search them; but the threat will do. Let no insult be
offered them. Then let Rivers take four men, and go in, and take all the
loot you can find. The jewels we will divide among the men when at Meerut.
Tell off another party to loot the rest of the rooms, but only take what
is really valuable and portable. We cannot cumber ourselves with baggage.
It would serve the rajah right if I were to burn his castle down; he may
think himself lucky to get off with his life."

The girls pleaded for the women. "We bear them no ill-feeling," they said.
"They are very ignorant; they only acted as they were taught."

"Well, well," said the major, "we will take the jewels alone; they are a
fair loot."

Another hour and the troops were already well on their way on the Delhi
road. The good luck which had attended them so far followed them to the
end. Anxious to avoid an encounter with the enemy, they took an even more
circuitous route than that by which they had come, and on the fourth
afternoon after leaving rode into Meerut, where their arrival after the
long and successful expedition created quite an excitement. A comfortable
house was found for the girls, with some old friends of the major, who
resided permanently at Meerut; as for the major and his troops, they
prepared to accompany the column which was on the point of marching
against Delhi.




CHAPTER VII.

DELHI.


Never did a government or a people meet a terrible disaster with a more
undaunted front than that displayed by the government and British
population of India when the full extent of the peril caused by the rising
of the Sepoys was first clearly understood. By the rising of Delhi, and of
the whole country down to Allahabad, the northern part of India was
entirely cut off from Calcutta, and was left wholly to its own resources.
Any help that could be spared from the capital was needed for the menaced
garrisons of Allahabad, Benares, and Agra, while it was certain that the
important stations of Cawnpore and Lucknow, in the newly-annexed province
of Oude, would at best be scarcely able to defend themselves, and would in
all probability urgently require assistance. Thus the rebel city of Delhi,
the center and focus of the insurrection, was safe from any possibility of
a British advance from the south. Nor did it look as if the position of
the English was much better in the north. At Sealkote, Lahore, and many
other stations, the Sepoys mutinied, and the Sikh regiments were
disturbed, and semi-mutinous. It was at this all-important moment that the
fidelity of two or three of the great Sikh chieftains saved British India.
Foremost of them was the Rajah of Puttiala, who, when the whole Sikh
nation was wavering as to the course it should take, rode into the nearest
British station with only one retainer, and offered his whole force and
his whole treasury to the British government. A half-dozen other prominent
princes instantly followed the example; and from that moment Northern
India was not only safe, but was able to furnish troops for the siege of
Delhi. The Sikh regiments at once returned to their habitual state of
cheerful obedience, and served with unflinching loyalty and bravery
through the campaign.

Not a moment was lost, as it was all-important to make an appearance
before Delhi, and so, by striking at the heart of the insurrection, to
show the waverers all over India that we had no idea of giving up the
game. The main force was collected at Umballah, under General Anson.
Transport was hastily got together, and in the last week of May this force
moved forward, while a brigade from Meerut advanced to effect a junction
with it. With this latter force were Warrener's irregular horse, which had
returned only the evening before the advance from its successful
expedition to Nahdoor. On the 30th of May the Meerut force under
Brigadier-General Wilson came in contact with the enemy at Ghazee-ud-deen-
Nugghur, a village fifteen miles from Delhi, where there was a suspension
bridge across the Hindur. This fight, although unimportant in itself, is
memorable as being the first occasion upon which the mutineers and the
British troops met. Hitherto the Sepoys had had it entirely their own way.
Mutiny, havoc, murder, had gone on unchecked; but now the tide was to
turn, never to ebb again until the Sepoy mutiny was drowned in a sea of
blood. Upon this, their first meeting with the white troops, the Sepoys
were confident of success. They were greatly superior in force; they had
been carefully drilled in the English system; they were led by their
native regimental officers; and they had been for so many years pampered
and indulged by government, that they regarded themselves, as being, man
for man, fully equal to the British. Thus, then, they began to fight with
a confidence of victory which, however great their superiority in numbers,
was never again felt by the mutineers throughout the war. Upon many
subsequent occasions they fought with extreme bravery, but it was the
bravery of despair; whereas the British soldiers were animated with a
burning desire for vengeance, and an absolute confidence of victory. Thus
the fight at Ghazee-ud-deen-Nugghur is a memorable one in the annals of
British India.

The mutineers, seeing the smallness of the British force, at first
advanced to the attack; but they were met with such fury by four companies
of the Sixtieth Rifles, supported by eight guns of the artillery, by the
Carbineers and Warrener's Horse, that, astounded and dismayed, they broke
before the impetuous onslaught, abandoned their intrenchments, threw a way
their arms, and fled, leaving five guns in the hands of the victors, and
in many cases not stopping in their flight until they reached the gates of
Delhi. The next day considerable bodies of fresh troops came out to renew
the attack; but the reports of the fugitives of the day before, of the
fury and desperation with which the British troops were possessed, had
already effected such an impression that they did not venture upon close
fighting, but after engaging in an artillery duel at long distances, fell
back again to Delhi.

On the 7th of June the Meerut force joined that from Umballah, at Alipore,
a short march from Delhi; and the next morning the little army, now under
the command of Sir H. Barnard--for General Anson, overwhelmed by work and
responsibility, had died a few days before advanced upon the capital of
India, After four miles march they came at Badulee-Ka-Serai upon the
enemy's first line of defense, a strong intrenched position, held by three
thousand Sepoys with twelve guns. These pieces of artillery were much
heavier than the British field guns, and as they opened a heavy fire, they
inflicted considerable damage upon our advancing troops. The British,
however, were in no humor for distant fighting; they panted to get at the
murderers of women and children--these men who had shot down in cold blood
the officers, whose only fault had been their too great kindness to, and
confidence in them. Orders were given to the Seventy-fifth to advance at
once and take the position; and that regiment, giving a tremendous cheer,
rushed forward with such impetuosity through the heavy fire that, as at
Ghazee-ud-deen-Nugghur, the Sepoys were seized with a panic, and fled in
wild haste from their intrenchments, leaving their cannon behind them.

At the foot of the steep hill on which the signal tower stands, another
and stronger line of defense had been prepared; but the mutineers
stationed here were infected by the wild panic of the fugitives from the
first position, and so, deserting their position, joined in the flight
into the city.

The British troops had marched from their encampment at Alipore at one in
the morning, and by nine A.M. the last Sepoy disappeared within the walls
of the town, and the British flag flew out on the signal tower on the
Ridge, almost looking down upon the rebel city, and the troops took up
their quarters in the lines formerly occupied by the Thirty-eighth, Fifty-
fourth, and Seventy-fourth native regiments. As the English flag blew out
to the wind from the signal tower, a thrill of anxiety must have been felt
by every one in Delhi, from the emperor down to the lowest street ruffian.
So long as it waved there it was a proof that the British Raj was not yet
overthrown--that British supremacy, although sorely shaken, still asserted
itself--and that the day of reckoning and retribution would, slowly
perhaps, but none the less surely, come for the blood-stained city. Not
only in Delhi itself, but over the whole of India, the eyes of the
population were turned toward that British flag on the Ridge. Native and
British alike recognized the fact that English supremacy in India depended
upon its maintenance. That England would send out large reinforcements all
knew, but they also knew that many an anxious week must elapse before the
first soldier from England could arrive within striking distance. If the
native leaders at Delhi, with the enormously superior forces at their
command, could not drive off their besiegers and pluck down the flag from
the Ridge, the time must come when, with the arrival of the
reinforcements, the tide would begin to flow against them. So India
argued, and waited for the result. The Delhi leaders, as well as the
English, felt the importance of the issue, and the one never relaxed their
desperate efforts to drive back the besiegers--the other with astonishing
tenacity held on against all odds; while scores of native chiefs hesitated
on the verge, waiting, until they saw the end of the struggle at Delhi. It
was called the siege of Delhi, but it should rather have been called the
siege of the Ridge, for it was our force rather than that of the enemy
which was besieged. Never before in the history of the world did three
thousand men sit down before a great city inhabited by a quarter of a
million bitterly hostile inhabitants, and defended moreover by strong
walls, a very powerful artillery, and a well-drilled and disciplined
force, at first amounting to some ten thousand men, but swelled later on,
as the mutineers poured in from all quarters, to three times that force.
Never during the long months which the struggle lasted did we attempt to
do more than to hold our own. The city was open to the enemy at all sides,
save where we held our footing; large forces marched in and out of the
town; provisions and stores poured into it; and we can scarcely be said to
have fired a shot at it until our batteries opened to effect a breach a
few days before the final assault.

The troops with which Sir H. Barnard arrived before Delhi consisted of the
Seventy-fifth Regiment, six companies of the Sixtieth Rifles, the First
Bengal Fusiliers, six companies of the Second Fusiliers--both composed of
white troops--the Sirmoor battalion of Goorkhas, the Sixth Dragoon Guards
(the Carbineers), two squadrons of the Ninth Lancers, and a troop or two
of newly-raised irregular horse. The artillery consisted of some thirty
pieces, mostly light field-guns.

Upon the day following the occupation of the Ridge a welcome accession of
strength was received by the arrival of the Guides, a picked corps
consisting of three troops of cavalry and six companies of infantry. This
little force had marched five hundred and eighty miles in twenty-two days,
a rate of twenty-six miles a day, without a break--a feat probably
altogether without example, especially when it is considered that it took
place in India, and in the hottest time of the year.

The Ridge, which occupies so important a place in the history of the siege
of Delhi, is a sharp backed hill, some half a mile long, rising abruptly
from the plain. From the top a splendid view of Delhi, and of the country,
scattered with mosques and tombs--the remains of older Delhi--can be
obtained. The cantonments lay at the back of this hill, a few posts only,
such as Hindoo Rao's house, being held in advance. Until the work of
building batteries and regularly commencing the siege should begin, it
would have been useless putting the troops unnecessarily under the fire of
the heavy guns of the city bastions.

When the troops had fairly taken possession of the old native lines on the
8th of June many of them, as soon as dismissed from duty, made their way
up to the flagstaff tower, on the highest point of the Ridge, to look down
upon Delhi. Among those who did so were Major Warrener and his two sons.
Both uttered an exclamation of pleasure as the city came into view:

"What a superb city!"

Delhi is indeed a glorious city as viewed from the Ridge. It is surrounded
by a lofty crenelated wall, strengthened with detached martello towers,
and with eleven bastions, each mounting nine guns, the work of our own
engineers, but in admirable architectural keeping with the towers.
Conspicuous, on a high table rock rising almost perpendicularly in the
heart of the city, is the Jumma Musjid, the great mosque, a superb pile of
building, with its domes and minarets. To the left, as viewed from the
Ridge, is the great mass of the king's palace--a fortress in itself--with
its lofty walls and towers, and with its own mosques and minarets. These
rise thickly, too, in other parts, while near the palace the closely-
packed houses cease, and lofty trees rise alone there. The Ridge lies on
the north of the city, and opposite to it is the Cashmere gate, through
which our storming parties would rush later on; and away, a little to the
right, is the Lahore gate, through which the enemy's sorties were
principally made. On the left of the Ridge the ground is flat to the
river, which sweeps along by the wall of the town and palace. There are
two bridges across it, and over them the exulting mutineers were for weeks
to pass into the city--not altogether unpunished, for our guns carried
that far, and were sometimes able to inflict a heavy loss upon them as
they passed, with music playing and flags flying, into the town.

"A glorious city!" Ned Warrener said, as they looked down upon it. "What a
ridiculous handful of men we seem by the side of it! It is like Tom Thumb
sitting down to besiege the giant's castle. Why, we should be lost if we
got inside!"

"Yes, indeed, Ned," said his father; "there will be no possibility of our
storming that city until our numbers are greatly increased; for if we
scaled the walls by assault, which we could no doubt do, we should have to
fight our way through the narrow streets, with barriers and barricades
everywhere; and such a force as ours would simply melt away before the
fire from the housetops a