 determine the exact amount of ice (not
altogether an impossible problem) about the two poles at any given time,
and then determine the effect of its entire transference from one pole to
the other.

4. It is not probable that the present ice-cap of the south pole extends
continuously and permanently much farther north than 80° or 81°. Mt.
Erebus, in Victoria Land, lies in about this latitude, and it was only a
few years since that the coast line of that island or continent was
traversed, by English exploring vessels, from Mt. Erebus to a point some
ten or twelve degrees further north. [18]

5. But if we estimate the southern cap as extending continuously to 75°,
what would be the effect of its transference at once to the ice-cap of the
north pole? Would it extend it, after assuming its proper glacial slope,
below 60°, a point falling within the present subarctic zone? The utmost
limit to which Mr. Croll, in his great work on "Climate and Time,"
conceives it possible that it should extend, in any glacial epoch, is to
55°, or about the northern boundary of England.

Now unless the astronomers and physicists are all at sea about the causes
of glaciation, the warm temperate zone can never be pushed any further
south than the tropical zone, nor the cold temperate any further than the
sub-tropical. This would be the extreme limit. Mr. Croll says, in speaking
of these glacial periods; "It is, of course, absurd to suppose that an
ice-cap could ever actually reach down to the equator. It is probable that
the last great ice-cap of the glacial epoch nowhere reached half way to
the equator. Our cap (that of Europe) must therefore, terminate at a
moderately high latitude." And if the gulf stream flows southward during
the glacial period north, as he supposes probable, the cap on this
continent would probably terminate at the same moderately high latitude.
Assuming that Mr. Croll's estimate is the more probable one, it would only
push the cold temperate zone down to the line of the Gulf States; the warm
temperate, to the southern line of Mexico; the sub-tropical, to the
Central American States, and the tropical to the United States of
Columbia, Venezuela, and Guiana.

Suppose, then, that some seven hundred thousand years ago, more or less,
when the North Pole had fully donned the earth's ice-cap, with all the
isothermal and isochimenal changes thereby effected, what must have been
the line of march taken by our northern vegetal and animal forms to escape
the cataclysm of ice and snow then impending? Manifestly, they would have
flocked, first to the Gulf states, then to Mexico, and afterwards to the
Central American states; but none of them could ever have been crowded
through the Isthmus of Panama, since at the height of the last glaciation,
that portion of the continent must have been the tropical barrier to our
northern forms, as it is now the equatorial barrier.

For the sake of the argument, however, we will suppose the northern
ice-cap to have been even more imperative in its demands than Mr. Croll
has deemed possible, driving some of our warm and cold temperate forms
down into the lowlands of Columbia, Venezuela, etc., in the extreme
northern portions of South America. But how would these forms have
managed, even then, to cross the thermal equator and secure a permanent
habitat in the present warm and cold temperate zones of that continent?
Manifestly, this question has never been practically solved, nor is it
ever likely to be in our day or generation. It is nevertheless susceptible
of solution, as Mr. Darwin thinks, by easy mental processes. We have only
to take a bird's eye view of the situation, and mentally follow these
forms in their long geographical tramp from the northern to the southern
hemisphere.

They must have started, of course, some twenty thousand years or more
before the earth reached its last superior limit of eccentricity. At that
distant epoch the sub-arctic breezes must have been blowing pretty stiffly
in our present temperate latitudes, and these forms would have been
constrained, in due time, to seek a more congenial isotherm. They must
accordingly have set out on their expedition, at about the period
indicated, with the prospect of a long and tedious journey before them.
Some twenty thousand years must have transpired before they reached the
line of the present Gulf states, and it would have taken as many more
years for them to deploy to the right and successfully enter the Mexican
states. In another twenty thousand years or so they might have doubled
Vera Cruz, and headed, in a southeasterly direction, for the Central
American states. The thermal equator would by this time have reached a
point some thirty degrees south of the geographical equator, while the
northern ice-cap would have swept down upon the traditional "hub of the
universe," or some ten or twelve degrees in excess of Mr. Croll's
calculations.

To have accomplished this grand glaciatorial feat the North Pole must have
donned some twenty times the amount of ice now about both poles of the
earth, and so changed the earth's centre of gravity as to have inundated
every foot of land on its habitable surface. But if this terrible
catastrophy had been avoided, and some of our extreme northern forms had
forced their way through the Isthmus into the lowlands of Columbia, they
must have done so at their greatest possible peril, even if they had
reached the base of Old Mt. Tolima in advance of the thermal equator, now
fleeing in dismay before the southern Ice-monarch, with all his
isochimenal hosts in mad pursuit of their invaders. And if these
adventurous northern forms had succeeded in ascending Mt. Tolima, they
could never have got down again, with the assistance of forty glaciations.

But we can imagine Mr. Darwin promptly snatching his pen to show the
stupidity of these northern forms in not climbing Popocatepetl or some
other lofty mountain in Central America or Mexico, on their retreat before
the still advancing thermal equator. But how this would have helped them
to cross the geographical equator, we fail to see. When Mr. Darwin, and
the eminent corps of geologists and physicists accepting his solution of
this "vexed question," can make a "warm term" south _succeed_ a "cold
term" north, we shall have no difficulty in solving the problem ourself.
But, unfortunately, the two terms--the cold one north and the warm one
south--are simultaneous in occurrence, and the same causes which forced
these northern invaders into the tropics, when they followed _after_ the
thermal equator, would have driven them ignominously back again _before_
it. The climbing of mountains would only have prolonged their disaster.
For after the glaciation north comes the glaciation south, and unless our
cold temperate zone were pushed down beyond the geographical equator, none
of its living forms could ever have reached the corresponding zone in the
southern hemisphere.

But as this "migration theory" is one of paramount importance to modern
science, and especially to "Darwinism," [19] distinctively so called, let
us, at the risk of repetition and tediousness, propose a scientific
expedition for the better solution of this problem. To do this, we propose
to cut loose from our stupid predecessors, the plants and animals, and
invite Mr. Darwin and some of his more distinguished European
contemporaries, not omitting Professors Gray, Winchell, Yeomans, and some
few other American admirers of his, to accompany us on a fresh expedition
from the warm and cold temperate zones north to the corresponding zones
south, _purely in the interest of science_. To make it certain that the
time fixed upon for this "expedition" to start, will not escape their
attention, we will state what many of them already well know, that the
present eccentricity of the earth's orbit is very low, being only 0.0168,
and that, in the year of our Lord 851,800, it will reach its next superior
limit, with a few intervening oscillations of such minimum value as to
render it hardly worth our while to start before that time.

We shall be obliged, of course to invite our distinguished European party
to join us on this side of the Atlantic, as their own narrow and
contracted continent furnishes no proper field for determining the problem
in question. We shall insist upon one condition only: "_That they shall
never leave the warm temperate zone in which we shall set out on our
expedition, except to pass halfway into an adjoining zone as is the habit,
at times, with plants and animals_." This condition will have to be
rigidly observed, otherwise our expedition would be of no scientific value
to future generations. As we shall have plenty of time to provide the
necessary outfit, we will appoint Mr. Darwin purveyor-general of the
party, and hold him responsible for any misadventure.

We will arrange for the expedition to start in the early autumn of the
year of our Lord 831,800, or about twenty thousand years before the earth
shall reach its next superior limit of eccentricity,--all of us eager, of
course, to brave the climatic vicissitudes of the journey, and to solve
the "great problem of the ages," which is, to determine how the gigantic
elephantoids of the Eocene period managed to cross the thermal equator,
and pass into the present arctic regions of our globe.

As "the king never dies," so the old southern Ice-monarch will be
succeeded by the young northern one, at about the period named. We shall
then have a decided advantage over our predecessors, the plants and
animals, in their journey southward, since we shall know the exact route
they took, and need only follow it. Presumably they had no such
information, nor had they either chart or compass to guide them,--a
circumstance which Mr. Darwin has not sufficiently taken into account in
predicating intelligence of his favorite pedestrians. Besides, these
vegetal and animal forms had one difficulty to encounter which we shall
not experience. With all the northern forms driven down into the Central
American states, they must have been sadly crowded for room, especially
near the Isthmus. The social conifers must have monopolized all the more
favored sites on the mountain sides and tops, while the humbler denizens
of the forest must have contented themselves with still more limited
quarters. The more impatient animals, for lack of necessary forage, must
have crowded through the Isthmus only to be driven back by the tropical
heats to their proper isotherms.

But our warm temperate zone is now moving southward, and our scientific
expedition is moving with it. The northern Ice-monarch has resumed
absolute sway, and our aphelion distance from the sun has increased some
tens millions of miles. We have, in the mean time, moved down to the line
of the Gulf states, and are deploying to the right in order to make a
triumphant entry into Mexico. Mr. Darwin is daily consulting the
isochimenals, and is confident that our northern ice-cap will equal Mr.
Croll's highest expectations. The news finally reaches us that the Gulf
stream has turned its course southward, and is now pouring its immense
treasures of heat into the South Atlantic, if not turning the African
"horn" and washing the far-off Australian coast. This fact greatly
increases the enthusiasm of our European party, and they hasten forward
into the sub-tropical zone, almost "violating conditions" in their haste
to enter the tropics.

At length, we crowd the narrow passages of the Isthmus, and the glory of a
warm temperate climate bursts upon our view in the Columbian states, of
South America. _The expedition promises to be an entire success_. At
least, Mr. Darwin thinks so, and he is now the Sir Oracle of our party. We
deliberately enter the lowlands of Columbia, and make ready to ascend the
sub-tropical mountains--those formerly equatorial--where the "great
scientific problem of the ages" is to be demonstrated. But we are
measuring time by almost _Sirius_ distances, and vast geologic periods
sweep by without apparent record. The northern ice-cap has been a
prodigious one, crowding us nearly down to the geographical equator, with
the advantage we have of appropriating some five and half degrees of the
sub-tropical zone.

But the year Anno Domini 851,800 finally rolls round, and the maximum of
the earth's ice-cap is reached. Old Mt. Tolima looms up in the distance,
and we soon ascertain that its height is sufficient for all scientific
purposes. Its summit displays a glittering ice-cap, and we are certain to
find the proper isotherm by climbing its umbrageous sides. We accordingly
make haste to reach its base, and get there not a minute too soon; for the
young southern Ice-monarch has stolen a march on the thermal equator, and
is driving it irresistibly back to its old quarters. His march northward
is a continuous triumph and ovation up to 55°, and the heart of Patagonia
is made glad by his near approach. True, the white gates of commerce are
closed about the Horn; but that is no concern of these wild Patagonians.
The aggressive Britton is driven out of New Zealand, and that is another
source of joy to the savage breast. Tasmania would extend a gladder
welcome than all to the Ice-crowned monarch, but alas, not a drop of
Tasmanian blood runs in human veins! Cape Good Hope has now a sub-arctic
climate, and the heart of the wild Kaffir and Zulu rejoices that the
sceptre of "perfidious Albion" is broken.

The thermal equator at length reaches the base of Mt. Tolima, and hastens
northward to the Isthmus, and thence to Hondurus and New Guatemala, where,
by sheer force of exhaustion, it comes to a halt.

But, as the equatorial zone extends fifteen degrees both ways from the
thermal equator, its southern limit now rests on the geographical equator,
and accordingly encircles the base of our "mount of refuge." We are now up
this mountain some sixteen thousand feet above the equatorial lowlands,
with the sub-tropical, tropical, and equatorial zones between us and the
possibility of our further migration southward, without violating the
express conditions imposed at the outset of our expedition.

The fact soon stares us in the face that we have been no more successful,
in our efforts to cross the thermal equator and pass into high southern
latitudes, than the stupid plants and animals before us; and Mr Darwin's
faith in high mountains springing from equatorial lowlands, disappears in
jest and derision as we all good-humoredly agree "to break conditions,"
and find our way back to the centres of activity and trade in the Old and
New Worlds, leaving the great scientific problem of the ages to solve
itself as best it may. We accordingly descend from our mountain fastness,
hasten to the coast, and take passage by steamer to Manhattan, the great
commercial metropolis of the world. Here we find that the barometer of
exchange was long ago taken down in London and hung up in New York. The
Old Antiquarian Society rooms are the first object of interest sought by
us. On making our way thither we look for a copy of the _Herald_, of the
date of our departure, in which we find an account of the scientific
expedition fitted out by us, facetiously termed "_The Great Wild-Goose
Chase after the Thermal Equator_"--presenting one of the most humorous
bits of sensational pleasantry ever given to the American public.

But an apology is due the staider reader for the seeming levity of this
narrative adventure. The exposition of Mr. Darwin, though widely accepted
on both sides of the Atlantic by the scientific world, has seemed to us
too trivial for serious reply. If we have leaped over vast periods of
time, it makes no difference with the argument. So long as the thermal
equator, or more properly the equatorial zone, or any part of it, lies
between the warm or cold temperate forms, whether plants or animals, and
their point of destination in the southern hemisphere, they can never
migrate thither, any more than the right whale of the arctic seas can swim
the equatorial oceans. Nothing is gained by going out of the way to climb
mountains, except to hopelessly retard the return of both plants and
animals to their native zones. If we have not demonstrated this fact to
the reader's fullest comprehension, it will be useless for him ever to
write a Q.E.D. at the end of any proposition.

It is true that some eminent astronomers and physicists hesitate to
accept the theory that these glacial epochs are due to the eccentricity
of the earth's orbit. But the argument favoring it is well fortified and
ably advanced, and if we add to the astronomical considerations involved,
the physical proofs of a change in the earth's centre of gravity, caused
by the excessive accumulation of ice about either pole, and the probable
shifting of the Gulf stream to a southerly direction during the glacial
period north, it is difficult to resist the conviction that the real
cause of glaciation has been suggested in this theory. With all the ice
now accumulated about the south pole transferred to the north pole, it
would make an ice-cap of over thirty miles in thickness at the pole, and
one sloping in all directions southward to about 60°. This accumulation,
it is claimed, would so change the earth's centre of gravity as to cause
all the equatorial warm waters to flow southward instead of northward, as
they now do.

This would certainly seem to be a most wonderful provision of nature, as
well as one strongly calculated to impress the human mind with the belief
that an Infinite _Pre_vision lies behind all possible _pro_vision, whether
witnessed in the heavens or in the earth, in astronomical or physical
phenomena. Everywhere we see infinite perfection, combined with infinite
beneficence, in the adaptation of means to ends. Nothing runs to
waste--all things are conserved for use.

But in all the outspoken grandeur of the universe, there is nothing so
grand, in exhibition at least, as the simple faith of a child, that "He
who watereth the hills from his chambers," and "causeth the day-spring to
know his place," will watch over the trustful little sleeper during the
darkness and silence of the night.




Chapter VI.

The Distribution and Premanence of Species.



Professor Gray, in his address before the American Association for the
advancement of science, delivered at Dubuque (Ia.) in 1872, while
remarking upon the wide extent of similar flora in the same plant zones,
says: "If we now compare, as to their flora generally, the Atlantic United
States with Japan, Mantchooria and Northern China,--_i.e._ Eastern North
America with Eastern North Asia--half the earth's circumference apart, we
find an astonishing similarity." But why astonishing? Had our
distinguished botanical professors, in this country and in Europe,
thoroughly informed themselves as to the climatic conditions, the general
physical features, geographical characteristics, soil-constituents, and
other conditional incidences of this Asiatic region, in the light of all
the physiological facts before them, the circumstance of this great
similarity of flora would have been anything but astonishing. Indeed, the
astonishment, if any, would have been expressed at the want of similarity,
had it been found to exist.

Ever since 1862, these distinguished professors have had the great
plant-charts of Mr. Arthur Renfrey before them, with the warm temperate
zone north accurately laid down in its proper isotherms, as well as the
different classes of vegetation peculiar to the two regions referred to,
and some general conclusions of value to science might have been drawn
therefrom. Besides, the fact of these similar antipodal flora was well
known to many of them before this chart was issued. They also knew that
all along the higher mountain ranges of this country, as well as in
Europe, the same alpine flora was to be found under the same or similar
alpine conditions. From Mt. St. Elias, in Alaska, to the Central American
States, and thence, through the Isthmus, to the southern extremity of the
Andes in South Patagonia, there is one unbroken line of alpine vegetation
pressing the sides or summits of the loftier mountain ranges, at altitudes
correspondingly varying with the latitudes in which they occur. And the
same is true of the Alps in Europe and the Himalaya ranges in Asia, if not
of all the mountain systems of the globe.

These, and hundreds of other equally suggestive facts, all pointing to
geographical, climatic, and other influencing conditions, as the real
objective points of inquiry, have been constantly before our botanical
friends; and yet they have been content with Mr. Darwin's theory of
climbing mountains to cross the geographical equator, under the impression
that an enormous ice-cap, or rather prodigious "ice-ulster," would
ultimately drift them into the southern hemisphere, or enable them to
"coast" their way thither with the greatest imaginable ease. But why
insist upon the migration of plants growing in the lowlands and about the
bases and sides of mountains, and not suggest some means of transport for
the equally beautiful flora, known as "alpine," on the mountain summits of
the earth? These are distributed, as we have before shown, over all our
mountain systems, in all latitudes and in all parts of the globe, as well
as in the higher regions of vegetation as we approach the north pole.
Surely, the delicate little harebells of these alpine regions should
attract some interest, if not sympathy, from those who are constantly
hunting up means of transport for the more hardy and robust plants that
seem able to take care of themselves almost anywhere.

When the next great ice-cap shall sweep down from the north pole upon
these beautiful alpine flowers they will have to travel somewhere. There
is manifestly as much necessity for them to get out of the way as for the
rest of the flora. How will they manage to get down the mountains into the
lowlands, and traverse uncongenial plains and deserts, to find other and
far-distant alpine homes? They can never, of course, get very far away
from the regions skirted by eternal frost, for their cup of joy must be
chaliced by the snow-flake, or their beautiful life is soon ended. But if
all our alpine flora have traveled from one evolutional centre, or have
been "created but once in time and place," how have they managed to cross
the thermal equator and spread themselves out over all the alpine regions
of the globe? We call upon Mr. Darwin and Professor Gray to rise and
explain. Not that we want any explanation, but that their theory of
plant-migration stands sadly in need of one.

The theory which the Bible genesis suggests to us is fully adequate to the
explanation wanted. It explains not only _why_ these alpine flora appear
where they do, but why they cannot appear anywhere else. It also explains
all the physiological facts to which we have referred in the foregoing
chapters. Wherever the necessary alpine conditions exist the earth
responds to the divine command, and the beautiful little alpine harebell
is cradled into life, and rejoices in the bright embroidery it wears. And
so, wherever streams are turned aside to flow through new meads and
sheltered woods, or over broken and swaly places where cowslips never grew
before, hardly a year will pass before this "wan flower" will hang therein
"its pensive head," while all along the line of the stream the black alder
will make its appearance in the lowlands, no matter how far its current
may be diverted from its original channel, or how distant the supply of
natural seeds. For nature's sternest painter can only delineate her as
"instinct with music and _the vital spark_."

If our botanical professors would come forth into the true light of
nature, they should accept the position of pupil to her, and not assert
that of teacher. So long as they continue to peep and botanize upon her
grave, or over ancient mounds and Hadrianic tumuli, they will never find
out the cunning of her processes, much less the means she employs to
accomplish her perfected ends. This modern idolatry of "hypotheses," with
our chronic neglect of what nature _does_, is the great scientific
stumbling-block of the age in which we live. Our botanists all agree that
certain plants and trees disappear--hopelessly die out--from the
_absence_ of "necessary conditions;" when will they come to recognize the
reverse of this undeniable proposition, and agree that the _presence_ of
necessary conditions may cause the same plants and trees to make their
appearance, that is, spring into life in obedience to some great primal
law, as unerringly obeyed by nature as the attractive force of the
universe itself?

For nearly half a century the fact has been known that the geographical
distribution of the European flora, and especially that of the British
Islands, was referable to latitude, elevation, and climatic conditions. As
early as 1835, Mr. Hewett Watson, a well-known botanist of that day, in
his published "Remarks on the Geographical Distribution of Plants, in
connection with Latitude, Elevation, and Climate," drew the attention of
the botanical world to this remarkable feature of plant distribution;
while the late Professor Edward Forbes pursued the same line of thought in
his attempt to show how geographical changes had affected plant areas in
Great Britain as far back as the last glacial drift. And yet all our
botanical writers have been steadily persisting on immense
plant-migrations to account for their geographical distribution, and have
given us maps without number to show how the vegetal hosts have traversed
vast continents, swam multitudinous seas, braved the fiery equator, and
scaled the summits of the loftiest Andes. In the mean time, no botanist of
any distinguished note, except M. De Candolle, has confidently ventured to
question this migration theory, so imposing and formidable has been the
array of names which have frowned down, like so many gigantic ghauts, upon
the audacious questioner.

But the present actual state of knowledge on this subject forbids us any
longer to accept theories for facts, premises for conclusions, or
fallacious reasoning for legitimate induction. Truth and daylight never
meet in a corner, and no one, in our day, need go to the bottom of a well
in search of either. We are forever stumbling over the truth without
knowing it, because our old traditional beliefs, like so many
superannuated grasshoppers, are constantly springing up in our path and
diverting our attention from her. There are physiological facts enough
daily obtruding themselves upon our attention, if we would but notice
them, in the case of wayside plants, garden and household weeds, and the
more aggressive vegetation of worn out pasture-lands, to satisfy us of the
truth of our theory, were it not for the swarms of these old traditional
grasshoppers continually rising into the air before us, and shutting out
the truth as it is in nature. And the worst feature about this whole
business is, that we have come to regard these multitudinous insects as a
delight instead of a burden.

But it is hardly necessary to pursue this subject further. We have shown,
or shall show in the succeeding pages, that all crystalline forms come
from necessary or favoring statical conditions; that all infusorial forms
come in the same way, only their conditions may be said to be dynamical
rather than statical; that all mycological forms (fungi) are dependent,
for their primary manifestation, on conditions of moisture and decay; that
all plant-life, from the lowest cryptogam to the lordliest conifer, is
dependent on some similar incidence of conditions; that the mastodon, now
only known by his fossil remains, must have wallowed forth from his
"necessary mire" (plasmic conditions) in the Eocene period; and that all
animal life must have come from some underlying law of primordial
conditions, as impressed upon matter, in harmony with the "Divine
Intendment" from the beginning; and that this law is still operative in
the production of new forms of life whenever and wherever the same may
appear. We shall also show that all living organisms, such as seeds,
fungus-spores, morphological cells, etc., perish at a temperature of about
100° C., and that _Bacteria, Torulæ_, and other infusorial forms, making
their appearance in super-heated flasks, originate not from morphological
cells, plastide particles, bioplasts, or any other vital organism, but
from indestructible vital units, which are everywhere present in the
organic matter of our globe, and ready to burgeon forth into life whenever
the necessary vital conditions exist, and the proper incidences of
environment occur.

We have also shown that the earth still obeys the divine command to bring
forth, or--if objection be made to this form of statement as
unscientific--still obeys some inexorable underlying law tantamount to
such command, and can no more help "bringing forth," when the necessary
telluric conditions favor, than the cold can help coming out of the north,
or the clouds dropping rain, when the necessary meteorological conditions
occur. Give the future American botanist the physical geography of a
country--its average rain-fall, temperature, etc., and the plant zone in
which it lies, and, whether explored or unexplored, he will give us the
general character of its vegetation, and name most of the plants and trees
peculiar to its soil. And he will do this, not because he has any faith in
the present theories of plant-migration, nor in the necessary distribution
of seeds, but because he will study his favorite science with reference to
latitude, elevation, climate, physical characteristics, rain-fall,
soil-constituents, and other influencing conditions of plant-life.

But we will now proceed to consider the duration of vegetable species, for
the purpose of showing that the evolutional changes they are undergoing,
if any, must cover infinitely vaster periods of time than we have any data
for determining, to say nothing of the unverified theories the
evolutionists have been spinning for us.

Our geologic and paleontologic records are becoming richer in materials,
more interesting in details, and more authentic in character, every year.
We are turning back page after page of these lithographic records, only
to find the domain of science widened and deepened in interest as we
advance, or as our rocks are being excavated, our mountains tunneled, our
vast mines explored, and the beds of our rivers and arms of seas
thoroughfared and traversed by the iron rail. Meanwhile, science exhibits
signs of becoming less devoted to new-fangled theories, more exacting in
her demands upon her votaries, and more eager to extend the domain of
facts as the only true basis on which to rest her claims for future
recognition. She is less dogmatic to-day than she was a year ago, and is
likely to become less so a year hence than now. And this is largely due
to her methods of research and inquiry. She is now everywhere sending out
her hardier and more enthusiastic sons into new fields of exploration, to
return laden with ampler materials to build, and richer treasures to
adorn, a temple worthy of her name. In the field of the fossilized fauna
and flora, these treasures are of the highest value and interest, all
indicating not only wide areas of distribution, but immense periods of
time, in which species have existed without any greater changes in
character than the necessary shadings into varieties would seem to
require. For nature everywhere characterizes her methods of production
and reproduction by a loving tendency to diversify and variously adorn
her species, as if to express the infinite conceptions of that power
above her, which "spake and it was done, which commanded and it was
brought forth."

From the fossilized plants of Atanekerdluk--a flora rich in species and
wonderfully preserved in type--and the Miocene flora of Spitzenburg, to
the southernmost limits of vegetation on the globe, science has reached
out her hands for materials, and gathered them with as much success as
avidity. And all scientific botanists agree in referring these fossilized
forms from the high northern latitudes, to the Miocene period--one so
remote that we can form no adequate conception of it, except as time may
be measured by geologic periods. And these materials show that varieties
of the _Sequoia_, the tulip-tree, oaks, beeches, walnuts, firs, poplars,
hazelnuts, etc., etc., all flourished in these sub-arctic regions during
the far-distant period we have named. Many of them must have grown on the
spot where their trunks are now to be found, as their roots remain
undisturbed in the soil, as well as at a time when these regions enjoyed a
warm or cold temperate climate. Many of these fossilized and carbonized
forms are identical with the living species of to-day, conclusively
showing that neither natural variation, nor any secondary causes, have
worked out any changes capable of being scientifically expressed in
genetic value.

There is also abundant evidence to show that many of the present tropical
forms flourished in central and southern Europe as far back as the warm
inter-glacial epoch in the Eocene period. And if these inter-glacial
periods occurred at the lowest minimum limits of eccentricity in the
earth's orbit, as calculated by Leverrier's formulæ, we can have no
conception whatever of the length of time actually intervening the period
named and our present era. Mr. Croll has given us the limits of highest
glaciation covering the last three million years, and shows that there
have been but two periods of superior eccentricity in that time, and can
be only one in the next million years, with but two or three intervening
maxima and minima that may, or may not have been, of any special value. It
is true that he assigns importance to these maxima, as affecting possible
glaciations, but there are other eminent astronomers and physicists who
differ from him, and really attach little or no importance to these of any
other intervening periods of eccentricity. If Mr. Croll is correct in his
theory and estimates, we must separate these superior glacial epochs by an
interval of not less than one million seven hundred thousand years; and
nearly three of these periods must have intervened since some of the
present tropical forms flourished in Europe. And if these forms have
undergone no specific change in all this time, how many years will it
require to work out even _one_ of Mr. Darwin's many evolutional changes?

The kinship between some of these arctic and sub-arctic fossilized flora
and the living forms of to-day, is so near that they cannot be
distinguished by a single difference. This is true of some of the
varieties of the _Sequoia_ family, the oaks, beeches, firs, hazelnuts,
etc., while others are so nearly identical that it would be difficult to
classify them as separate varieties. At all events, if they cannot be
placed in the list of identical species, they cannot be ruled out of
representative types. But why should our speculative botanists insist upon
these "evolutional changes" in plant-life--these "derivative forms" of
which they are constantly speaking? Paleontological botany has given us
the very highest antiquity of species, and the most that can be claimed is
that nature was just as prolific of diversified forms millions of years
ago as now. Because we, by forcing nature into unnatural, if not
repugnant, alliances, can produce

            --"Streak'd gillyflowers,
  Which some call nature's bastards."

it is no evidence that she commits any such offence against herself. Her
alliances are all loving ones. She indulges in no forced methods of
propagation. If she produced the _Sequoia gigantea_, or the great redwood
tree of our California Sierra, as far back as the Crustaceous period, she
has propagated it ever since according to her own loving methods, and it
is idle to talk of the _Sequoia Langsdorfii_ as being the original
ancestor of this tree, or any other distinguished branch of the sequoias.
How much more rational the suggestion of Professor Agassiz that these
trees--the entire family of sequoias--were quite as numerous in
individual varieties at first as now, and that the fruit of the one can
never bear the fruit of the other.

Again, take the still hardier and more numerous branches of the
_Quercus_ or oak family. M. De Candolle has expended a vast deal of
ingenuity to show that the various members of this old and
ancestrally-knotty family have all descended from two or three of the
hardier varieties. He arrives at this conclusion from a geographical
survey of what he would call the "whole field of distribution," and
"the probable historical connection between these congeneric species."
But science should deal with as few probabilities as possible,
especially where experience furnishes no guide to certainty, and only
the remotest clue to likelihood. We should never predicate
probabilities except on some degree of actual evidence, or some
likelihood of occurrence, falling within the limits, analogically or
otherwise, of human observation and experience. In no other way can we
determine whether an event is probable or not. But here we have not so
much as a probable experience to guide us. Geographical distribution in
the past is hardly a safe criterion to go by, because we can never be
absolutely certain that we have the requisite data on which to form a
determinate judgment. The _Quercus robur_ may furnish the maximum test
to-day, but a few concealed pockets of nature may bring some other
variety of the congeneric species to the front to-morrow, requiring M.
De Candolle to correct his classification. There are no less than
twenty-eight varieties of this one species of oak, all of them conceded
to be spontaneous in origin, and it has been on the earth quite as long
as the more stately tribe of Sequoias. Besides, not more than one
twenty-thousandth part of the earth's surface has been dug over to
determine the extent to which any one of its varieties has flourished
in the past.

Since these several varieties are only one degree removed from each other,
M. De Candolle supposes divergence to be the natural law which has
governed their growth, and not hereditary fixity. But here again he has
only remote probabilities to work upon, no absolute data. We are still
speaking of his fossilized herbaria, not his modern specimens. These may
show a large number of genetically-connected individuals, or those claimed
to be so connected. And yet no naturalist can be certain that, because
they exhibit similarly marked characteristics, the one ever descended from
the other; for the universal experience-rule still holds good that "like
engenders like," and we search in vain for anything more than a similarity
of _idea_, or logical connection, which justifies a recognition of the
_individuorum similium_ in Jessieu's definition of species. But similarity
must not be mistaken for absolute likeness, which nowhere exists in
nature. Infinite diversity is the law, absolute identity the rarest
possible exception. No two oak leaves, for instance, in a million will be
found actually alike, although taken from the same tree, or trees of the
same variety; and the same may be said of the segmentation and branching
of their limbs, as well as the striatures of their corticated covering,
_Et sic de similibus_ everywhere, and with respect to every thing. Nature
is more solicitous of diversity and beauty, than of similarity and
tameness of effect, in all her landscape pictures; and the Platonic
conception that "contraries spring from contraries," may be only a
supplementary truth to that of _de similibus_. In the eye of the soul all
objective existences are discerned in their logical order, or as
consecutive thoughts of the Divine mind, as outspoken in the material
universe. To insist upon cutting down these transcendental forms[20] into
the smallest possible number of similar or identical forms, may be all
well enough to accomplish scientific classification; but the productive
power of nature can never be limited by these mental processes of our own.

The oak family can be traced back to the Miocene period, and consequently
enjoys quite as high an antiquity as the sequoias. Professor Gray, in
speaking of the _Quercus robur_ and its probable origin, says that it is
"traceable in Europe up to the commencement of the present epoch, looks
eastward, and far into the past on far-distant shores." By "far-distant
shores," he undoubtedly means Northwest America, where its remotest
descendants still flourish. But that these trees should have waded the
Pacific, or sent their acorns on a voyage of discovery after new habitats
on the Asiatic coast, is hardly more probable than Jason's voyage after
the golden fleece, in any other than a highly figurative sense. The
spontaneous appearance of a forest of oaks on the eastern shores of Asia
was just as probable, under favoring conditions--though occurring
subsequently to the time of their appearance on this continent--as that of
the miniature forests of "samphire," or small saline plants, which
spontaneously made their appearance about the salt-works of Syracuse, when
conditions actually favored. The high antiquity of the oak makes no
difference in respect to the principle of dispersion, since geographical
conditions are what govern, and not the theoretical considerations of the
speculative botanist.

Mr. A. R. Wallace's formula concerning the origin of species, that they
"have come into existence coincident both in time and place with
preëxisting closely-allied species," may or may not be true so far as
individual localization is concerned. But it proves nothing in the way of
original progeny, nor can we, by any actual data before us, satisfactorily
determine, under this formula, which of the two closely-allied species
preceded the other. If they came coincidently, both in time and place,
their existence must have been concurrent, not separated by preëxistence.
The formula may be true to this extent, that the conditions favoring the
appearance of one species may have equally favored what we call a
closely-allied species. But even in this case, the material sequence is
lost, and we have nothing to express a relationship as from parent to
progeny. For, however restricted as to localization, each species
preserves its own characteristics, the similarities always being less than
the dissimilarities. These, and other equally conclusive facts of
observation, led Professor Agassiz to question any necessary genetic
connection between the different species, or between even the same
species, in widely-separated localities; his idea being precisely that
advanced by us in connection with the Bible genesis, that localization
depended on geographical conditions, not on the migration of plants or the
dispersion of seeds.

The actual geographical distribution of species--any species--does not
depend solely on lines of ancestry, however great their persistence of
specific characters; nor on any principle of natural selection, nor on the
possibility of fertile monstrosities, but on the simple incidence of
conditions; and M. De Candolle, in his "Geographie Botanique," virtually
concedes this, while treating of geographical considerations in connection
with distribution. He in fact says, in so many words, that the actual
distribution of species in the past "seems to have been a consequence of
preceding conditions." [21] And he is forced to this conclusion by his
virtual abandonment of plant-migration, and the alleged means of
seed-distribution.

The question after all, says Professor Gray, is not "how plants and
animals originated, but how they came to exist where they are, and what
they are." On only one of these points--that of favoring conditions--can
any satisfactory answer be given, except as we defer to the Bible genesis,
which explains all. And the reason is, that we can never determine what
forms are specific without tracing them back to their origin, and this is
impossible. Orders, genera, species, etc., are only so many lines of
thought on which we arrange our classifications, just as the parallel
wires of an abacus, with their sliding balls, are the lines on which we
make our mathematical computations. Agassiz would not allow that varieties
existed in nature, except as man's agency effected them, that is, as they
were brought about by artificial processes.

These artificial processes are quite numerous, and many of them have been
practised from remote antiquity. But they seem to have no counterpart in
nature, except as insects may contribute to modifications by the
distribution of pollen. But all modifications of this character tend
towards infertility, while few plants accept any fertilizing aid from
other and different species. Any break in their hereditary tendencies,
resulting in a metamorphosis that involves the integrity of their stamens
and pistils, is stoutly resisted by nature. In considering the question of
species, therefore, we should confine our observations to those produced
by natural, not artificial, methods; to plants as propagated by the loving
tendencies of nature, not by the arbitrary and exacting methods of
man--those looking to his gratification only. All these fall into the
category, of "nature's bastards," as Shakespeare happily defines them. In
view of these considerations, and the new methods of classification, such
as grouping genera into families or orders, and these into sub-orders,
tribes, sub-tribes, etc., we can readily understand why the great Harvard
Professor should have wholly eliminated community of descent from his idea
of "species," or hesitated to regard varieties otherwise than as the
result of man's agency.

Indeed, the whole question of species, as well as varieties, is likely to
undergo material modifications in the future. On some points the botanists
and zoologists differ widely already, many making likeness among
individuals a secondary consideration, and genealogical succession the
absolute test of species. Others, on the contrary, make resemblance the
fundamental rule, and look upon habitual fecundity within hereditary
limits as provisional, or answering to temporary needs only. These
differences of opinion would seem to be the more tenaciously held as the
question of new varieties presses for solution at the hands of nature,
rather than by the agency of man. All these varieties tend less to new
races than to cluster about type-centres, and can go no further than
certain fixed limits of variation, beyond which all oscillations cease.
But none of these questions touch the real marrow of the controversy as to
origin, or aid us in determining the duration of species.

The presence of the two great families of trees--the sequoias and the
oaks--as far back as the Miocene period, if not extending through the
Eocene into the Cretacious, is conclusive of the point we would make, that
no great evolutional changes have taken place in the last two or three
million years, and none are likely to take place in the next million
years, except that the _Sequoia gigantea_ may drop out, from the vandalism
of man or the next glacial drift.

M. Ch. Martins, in his "Voyage Botanique én Norwege," says "that each
species of the vegetable kingdom is a kind of thermometer which has its
own zero." It may also be said to have its hygrometric and telluric
gauges, or instruments to determine the necessary conditions of moisture
and soil-constituents. When the temperature is below zero, the
physiological functions of the plant are suspended, either in temporary
hybernation or death. And so when the hygrometric gauge falls below the
point of actual sustentation, the plant shrinks and dies; while, without
the necessary conditions, it would never have made its appearance. There
was nothing more imperative in the command for the earth to bring forth
than the necessary conditions on which plant-life depended in the first
instance, and still depends, as we have endeavored to show.

Dr. J.G. Cooper, in an interesting article prepared by him at the expense
of the Smithsonian Institute, on the distribution of the forests and trees
of North America, with notes and observations on the physical geography,
climate, etc., of the country, after classifying, arranging, and
tabulating the results of the various observations forwarded to that
institution, indulges in the following general observations: "We have with
a tropical summer a tropical variety of trees, but chiefly of northern
forms. Again, with our arctic winters, we have a group of trees, which,
though of tropical forms, are so adapted to the climate as to lose their
leaves, like the northern forms, in winter. But, here, it must be
distinctly understood, is no alteration _produced_ by climate. Trees are
made for and not _by_ climate, and they keep their characteristics
throughout their whole range, which with some extends through a great
variety of climate." The italics are the authors, and we suppose he means
by "tropical" and "arctic," the sub-tropical and sub-arctic.

In making his general observations, he had before him large collections of
the leaves, fruits, bark, and wood of trees from all parts of the United
States, including portions of Mexico, the Canadas and Alaska, and
extending from the Atlantic to the Pacific. But one of the most important
elements--in fact, the _most_ important--is wanting in the tables before
us, and that is, the elevation at which these thousands of specimens were
obtained. So great an oversight as this should not have occurred, although
it may not have been entirely Dr. Cooper's fault. He had his materials to
work upon, and may have done the best that any one could with them. And
yet it is just as important to know at what _elevation_ a particular tree
grows in its own plant zone, as to know whether it comes from a sub-arctic
or sub-tropical region.

But this was not the comment we designed to make. Dr. Cooper labors, with
most professional botanists, under the delusion that all our plants and
trees originated in some one "centre of creation," at some period or other
in time and place, and have been steadily spreading themselves outward
from that centre until they occupy their present areas of distribution. We
have no objection to his clinging to this superannuated faith and belief,
if he derives any pleasure in flushing up these "traditional
grasshoppers." But we have a right to insist that he shall be logical. He
wants it distinctly understood that trees are made _for_, and not _by_,
climate. Then his "centre of creation" should be everywhere, not a
localized one. For he insists that no alteration can be produced by
climate, but that the characteristics of each specific form are preserved
throughout its entire range of distribution. But if these nomadic and
migratory forms have wandered thus far from their centres of creation, it
would seem that the trees had either adapted themselves to the climate, or
the climate to the trees. But our Smithsonian systematizer will allow us
neither horn of this dilemma. He insists that the trees were made for the
climate, and that they have preserved their characteristic features during
their entire ambulation upon the earth's surface.

With the change of a single monosyllabic predicate, this proposition is
undoubtedly true. We have never heard that plants or trees were "made."
They were ordered "to grow," or rather the earth was commanded to bring
them forth, which is an equivalent induction. And the fact that they grow
now, renders it absolutely certain that they grew at first, when "out of
the ground made the Lord God _to grow_" every plant of the field, and
every tree that is pleasant to the sight. We accept this genesis for the
want of a better. And if Dr. Cooper will add to his climatic conditions,
the hygrometric and other conditions necessary for the development and
growth of his plants and trees, we will agree with him to the fullest
extent of his novel position--that trees neither adapt themselves to the
climate, nor the climate to the trees; although it is true that trees
modify climate quite as much as they are modified by it. The true
physiological formula is undoubtedly this:--Trees make their appearance
_in_ climatic and other environing conditions, and flourish, without
material change in characteristics, so long as these conditions favor.
_Why_ they make their appearance is not a debatable question, except as we
assume a preëxisting vital principle, and apply to its elucidation our
subtlest dialectical methods. We are told that God commanded the earth to
bring them forth, after _his_ spirit (the animating soul of life) had
moved upon the face of the depths--the chaotic and formless mass of the
earth in the beginning. Plato has uttered no profounder or more
comprehensive truth than this, with all his conceptions of Deity and the
perfect archetypal world after which he conceived our own to be modeled.
Our preference for the Bible genesis over the Platonic conception is, that
it is vastly simpler and constitutes a more objective reality to the human
soul. Besides, we find _it true in fact_, since the earth is constantly
teeming with life, as if in obedience to some great primal law impressed
upon matter by an infinitely superior intelligence to our own.--

              "If this faith fail,
  The pillar'd firmament is rottenness,
  And earth's base built on stubble."




Chapter VII.

What Is Life? Its Various Theories.



The question, "What is life?" does not lie within the province of human
reason, the science of logic, or the intuitions of consciousness, to
determine. It furnishes no objective _datum_ on which to predicate
attributes that are either congruent or diverse. It can only be defined as
the coordination of the _vis vitae_ in nature, which is an undisguised
form of reasoning in a circle. We can ascribe to it only such attributes
as are utterly inconceivable in any other concept or object of thought. It
admits of but one attribution, and that embracing an identical
proposition. To say of life that it is "a coördination of action," might
be true as a partial judgment, but not as a comprehensive one; otherwise,
crystallization would fall under its category, which is manifestly an
illicit induction. It allows, therefore, of no possible explication,
analysis, or separate logical predicament. It stands absolutely alone and
apart by itself--a positive, self-subsistent vital principle, or process
of action, which all physiologists agree, for the sake of convenience and
uniformity of expression, in designating as a _power, property, force_,
etc., in nature. Whenever questioned as to its origin the subtlest and
profoundest intellects, in all ages of the world, have returned but one
answer: "I know no possible origin but God"--the great primal source of
all life in the universe.

Among the ancients we find an almost equivalent induction in the phrases,
borrowed by them from the highest antiquity, "_Jupiter est genitor_,"
"_Jupiter est quodcunque vivit_," etc., which, although uninspired
utterances, strike their roots deeply into the _terra incognita_ of
consciousness, wherein we ascribe to God the "issues of life" as a
paramount theological conception. When the ingenious and learned Frenchman
defined life as "the sum of all the functions by which death is resisted,"
he was as conclusively indulging in the _argumentum in circulo_ as if he
had said, "Life is the antithesis of what is not life." This would be as
luminous a definition as that which should make Theism the opposite of
Anti-theism, or the Algebraic statement _x-y_ the antithesis of _x+y_--one
of no definitional value so long as there is no known quantity expressed
in the formula.

To begin with begging the question, and then adroitly whipping the
argument about a pivotal point, as a boy would whip a top, may be amusing
enough to the childish mind, but is manifestly making no more progress in
logic than to substitute an ingenious paraphrase of a term for its real
definition. It is a mere verbal feat at best, without the possibility of
reaching any determinate judgment. It is like some of the half-circular
phrases we are likely to meet with in the categories of modern
materialistic science, such as the "correlated correlates of motion," the
"potentiated potentialities of sky-mist," the "undifferentiated
differentialities of life-stuff," called, by special condescension on the
part of the materialists, "life." All of which is an easy logic, but a
whimsical enough way of putting it.

According to Leibnitz, everything that exists is replete with life, full
of vital activity, if not an actual mass of living individualities. But
this daring hypothesis has ceased to attract the attention it once
received. There are states and conditions of matter in respect to which it
is idle to predicate the _vis vitae_. For the great bulk of our globe is
made up of the highly crystallized and non-fossiliferous rocks, which
neither contain any elementary principle of life, nor exhibit the
slightest trace of vital organism, even to the minutest living speck or
plastid. During all those vast periods of uncomputed time, covering the
world's primeval history, there was an utter absence of life until the
chief upheavals of the outer strata of our globe, now constituting the
principal mountain chains of its well-defined continents, occurred. In
whatever atomic or molecular theories, therefore, we may indulge, in
respect to the original formation of the earth, the utmost stretch of
empirical science can go no further, in the solution of vital problems,
than to touch the threshold of inorganic matter, where, in our backward
survey of nature, vegetable life begins and animal life ends. All beyond
this point must be given up to other "correlates of motion" than those to
which the materialists specifically assign the beginnings of life.

The theory of "panspermism," originating with the Abbé Spallanzani in
modern times, and still stoutly advocated by M. Pasteur and some few
others, is manifestly defective in this,--that it goes beyond the
inorganic limit in assigning vital units to all matter, even to its
elemental principles. It is true that they speak of "pre-existing
germs"--"primordial forms of life"--that are "many million times smaller
than the smallest visible insect." But their assumptions go far beyond
the construction we give to the Bible genesis, which merely asserts that
the germinal principle of life--that of every living thing--is in the
earth, or in "the waters and the earth," which were alone commanded "to
bring forth."

Some of the panspermists have gone so far as to assert that everything
which exists is referable to the _vis vitæ_--to non-corporeal, yet
extended vital units, mere metaphysical points--like Professor Beale's
bioplasts in the finer nerve-reticulations--or living things endowed with
a greater or less degree of perceptive power. This was the assumption of
the great German philosopher, Leibnitz, who carried the panspermic theory
so far as to accept the more fanciful one of "monads"--those invisible,
ideal, and purely speculative units of Plato, which go to make up the
entire universe, extending even to the ultimate elements, or elements of
elements. Leibnitz says: "As it is with the human soul, which sympathizes
with all the varying states of nature--which mirrors the universe--so it
is with the monads universally. Each--and they are infinitely
numerous--is also a mirror, a centre of the universe, a microcosm:
everything that is, or happens, is reflected in each, but by its own
spontaneous power, through which it holds ideally in itself, as in a
germ, the totality of things."

But the specific germ theory advanced in the Bible genesis, is capable of
being taken out of the purely speculative region in which "panspermism"
landed the great German philosopher. It is a simple averment that the
animating principle of life is in the earth; that the germs of all living
things, vegetal and animal alike, are implanted therein, and that they
make their appearance, in obedience to the divine command, whenever and
wherever the necessary environing conditions occur. The fact that nature
still obeys this command is proof that she has the power to do so--that
this indestructible vital principle still animates her breast. Innumerable
experiments, as well as phenomenal facts, attest the truth of this genesis
of life, while the researches of Professor Bastian and other eminent
materialists, made in infusorial and cryptogamic directions, confirm
rather than discredit it. The fact that it appears for the first time in
this ancient Hebrew text can detract nothing from its value as a
scientific statement. Granting that panspermism may rest upon a purely
fanciful and unsubstantial basis, it is but fair to concede that its great
advocates have honestly attempted to explain by it all the vital phenomena
occurring in nature, as M. Pasteur is conclusively attempting to do now.
It is certain that the materialists, who are resolutely antagonizing the
panspermic, as well as all other "vital" theories, have not yet gone so
deeply into elementary substance as to shut off all further investigation
in these directions.[22] Neither the lowest primordial cell, nor the least
conceivable molecule, has yet been reached by the aid of the microscope,
any more than the outermost circle of the heavens has been penetrated by
the aid of the telescope. We must stop somewhere, and when we find a
scientifically formulated statement which embraces all vital phenomena,
and satisfactorily accounts for them all, whether it originally came from
Aristotle, from Plato, or from Moses, is a matter of comparatively slight
moment, so far as the scientific world is concerned. At least, it would
seem so to us. But to talk of the _de novo_ origin of "living matter" as
the result of the dynamic force of molecules--themselves concessively
"dead matter"--is to indulge in quite as fanciful a speculation as the
advocates of the panspermic hypothesis have ever ventured to suggest.
Professor Bastian is forced to go back of his infusorial forms and
fungus-germs to a microscopical "pellicle," from which he admits they are
"evolved." But why evolved? Does not the principle of vitality lie back of
the pellicle, as well as the fungus-germ? How absolutely certain is he
that the extremest verge of microscopic investigation has been attained,
in what he is pleased to designate "primary organic forms?" "Evolution" is
a very potential word, and no one may yet know what boundless stores of
absurd theory and metaphysical nonsense are locked up in it![23] He admits
that "evolution," as embracing the idea of "natural selection," can have
nothing to do with the vast assemblage of infusorial and cryptogamic
organisms, until they assume definitely recurring forms, that is, rise
into species and breed true to nature. Then, he agrees with Mr. Darwin,
that the law of vital polarity or "heredity," as he calls it, may come in
and play its part towards effecting evolution, or variability, in both
animal and vegetal organisms, but not before. Why then should he lug in,
or attempt to lug in, the diverse potentialities of this word "evolution,"
for the purpose of demonstrating the dynamic law governing the
developmental stages of his microscopic pellicle? This, he will agree,
lies far below the point, in primary organism, where specific identity, or
the law of heredity, asserts its full recognition. All below this
developmental point is inconstancy of specific forms, with no line of
ancestry to be traced anywhere.

This, Professor Bastian readily concedes, notwithstanding it cuts the
Darwinian _plexus_ squarely in the middle. He says: "Both Gruithuisen and
Tréviranus agree that the infusoria met with have never presented similar
characters when they have been encountered in different infusions; nor
have they been uniform in the same infusion, when different portions of it
have been _exposed to the incidence of different conditions_. The
slightest variations in the quality or quantity of the materials employed,
are invariably accompanied by the appearance of different organisms--these
being oftentimes strange and peculiar, and unaccompanied by any of the
familiar forms." Other writers of equal eminence in this field of
investigation have not only observed the same characteristics, but
encountered the same difficulties in classification, from the very great
diversity obtaining even in the nearest allied forms. So great is this
diversity, and so multitudinous the different forms, that little certainty
or value can be attached to the classifications already made. Even
Professor O.F. Müller, after he had convinced himself that he had
discovered not less than twelve different species belonging to a single
genus, was subjected to the mortification of seeing Ehrenberg cut them all
down to mere modifications of one and the same species.

We refer to these several statements of fact for the purpose of
emphasizing the true genesis of life as supplemented by "the incidence of
different conditions," on which all vital manifestations depend. The
presence of the germinal principles of life in the earth is emphatically
averred in the Bible genesis. And we have only to connect the doctrine of
"conditional incidence" with this averment, to account for all the vital
phenomena which so profoundly puzzle these gentlemen while prying into the
mysteries of the ephemeromorphic world. Whatever may be the character of
any infusion, or to whatever incidence of conditions it may be subjected,
it will produce _some_ form of life; not because it contains this or that
morphological cell, destructible at a temperature of 100° C--that to which
it is experimentally subjected before microscopic examination,--but
because every organic infusion, whether undergoing the required heat-test
or not, contains vital units--those as indestructible by heat as by
glacial drift--which burgeon forth into life whenever the proper
conditions of environment obtain. The slightest variation, in either the
quantity or quality of the material employed in the infusion, is, as these
eminent microscopists agree, invariably accompanied by the appearance of
different forms of life, just as the slightest change in soil-conditions,
such as that produced by the presence of one species of tree with another
in natural truffle-grounds, will result in the appearance of another and
altogether different plant, as well as truffle tuber.

But the theory which the vitalists are more particularly called upon to
combat is that to which the non-vitalists most rigidly adhere; and we
refer to it, in this connection, that the reader may compare its
complexity and involution of statement and idea with the extreme
simplicity of the biblical genesis, as heretofore presented. We give it in
the exact phraseology employed by Professor Bastian: "Living matter is
formed by, or is the result of, certain combinations and rearrangements
that take place _in invisible colloidal molecules_--a process which is
essentially similar to the mode by which higher organisms are derived from
lower in the pellicle of an organic infusion." This carefully-worded
definition of life, or the origin of "living matter," presents a
hypothetical mode of reasoning which is eminently characteristic of all
materialists. In the stricter definitional sense of the word, there is no
such thing as "living matter" or "dead matter," as we have before claimed.
There are "living organisms" in multitudinous abundance--those resulting
_from_, not _in_, the _vis vitæ_, or the elementary principle of life in
nature--as there are also "dead organisms" in abundance. This
materialistic definition of life, which is not so much as a generic one
even, begins in an absurdity and ends in one. It is agreed that the
"proligerous pellicle" of M. Pouchet, the "plastide particle" of Professor
Bastian, the "monas" of O.F. Müller, the "bioplast" of Professor Beale,
etc., are essentially one and the same thing, except in name. They are
mere moving specks, or nearly spherical particles, which exhibit the first
active movements in organic solutions. They vary in size from the one
hundred-thousandth to the one twenty-thousandth of a second of an inch in
diameter, and appear at first hardly more than moving specks of
semi-translucent mucus. Indeed, Burdach calls them "primordial mucous
layers." But they move, pulsate, swarm into colonies, and act as if they
were guided, not by separate intelligence, but by some master-builder
supervising the whole work of organic structure. This master-builder is
the one "elementary unit of life," which directs the movements of all the
plastide particles, constantly adding to their working force, from the
first primordial mucous layer of the superstructure to the majestic dome
of thought (in the case of man) which crowns the temple of God on
earth.[24]

But this "pellicle" of Professor Bastian is not mere structureless matter,
any more than the "bioplast" of Professor Beale. The fact that they move,
pulsate, work in all directions, shows that they have the necessary organs
with which to work. These organs may be invisible in the field of the
microscope, but that is no proof that they do not exist. Organs are as
essential for locomotion in a plastide particle as in a mastodon or
megatherium, and if the microscope could only give back the proper
response, we should see them, if not be filled with wonder at the
marvellous perfection of their structure. But into whatever divisions or
classifications we may distinguish or generalize the properties of matter,
we can never predicate _vitality_ of it, any more than we can predicate
_intellectuality_. Indeed, "intellectual matter" presents no greater
incongruity or invalidity of conception than "vital matter." These
qualifying terms are applied to the known laws and forces of nature, not
to insensate matter. To assert that life results _from_ "certain
combinations and rearrangements of matter," and not _in_ them, is utterly
to confound cause and effect, or so incongruously mingle them together
that no logical distinction between the two can exist as an object of
perception. Without the _vis vitæ_, or some germinal principle of life,
lying back of these "combinations and rearrangements of matter," and
determining the movements of their constituent molecules, there could be
no vital manifestation, any more than there could be a correlate of a
force without the actual existence of the force itself. [25]

The materialists give the name of "protoplasm" to that primitive
structureless mass of homogeneous matter in which the lowest living
organisms make their appearance. They claim that this generic substance is
endowed with the property or power of producing life _de novo_, or, as
Professor Bastian puts it, of "unfolding new-born specks of living matter"
which subsequently undergo certain evolutional changes; but whether they
die in their experimental flasks, or rise into higher and more potentially
endowed forms of life, it is difficult for those following their diagnoses
to determine. They further claim that the same law of vital manifestation
obtains in organic solutions as in the structureless mass they call
"protoplasm." Both are essentially endowed with the same potentiality of
originating life independently of vital units, or _de novo_, as they more
persistently phrase it. But why speak of _unfolding_ "new-born specks of
living matter?" "To unfold" means to open the folds of something--to turn
them back, get at the processes of their _infoldment_. It implies a
pre-existing something, inwrapped as a germ in its environment. If not a
germ, what is this pre-existing vital something which their language
implies? Is our scientific technology so destitute of definitional
accuracy that they cannot use half a dozen scientific terms without
committing half that number of down-right scientific blunders? "New-born
specks of living matter" is language that a vitalist might possibly use by
sheer inadvertence; but no avowed materialist, like Professor Bastian,
should trip in this definitional way.

"Living matter," _born_ of what? Certainly not of _dead_ matter. Death
quickens nothing into life, not even the autonomous moulds of the grave.
It implies the absence of all vitality--a state or condition of matter in
which all vital functions have been suspended, have utterly ceased, if,
indeed, they ever existed. It behooves the materialists to use language
with more precision and accuracy than this. "Dead matter," whatever the
phrase may imply, can bear nothing, produce nothing, quicken nothing. The
pangs of death once past, the pangs of life cease. Nor is there any birth
from unquickened matter. Animals _bear_ young, trees _bear_ fruit, but
force _produces_ results. What then quickens protoplasmic matter? Neither
vital force, nor vegetative force, if we are to credit the materialists.
They would scorn to postulate such a theory, or accept any such absurd
remnant of the old vitalistic school. It is rather "molecular force"--a
physical, not a vital unit--that gives us these "new-born specks of living
matter." [26] This is what they would all assert at once, in their
enthusiasm to enlighten us on a new terminology.

But "molecular force" fails to give us any additional enlightenment on the
subject we are investigating. It is even less satisfactory than "atomic
force," or "elementary force"--that which may be considered as inhering in
the elementary particles from which both atoms and molecules are derived.
And since both the ultimate atom and the ultimate molecule lie beyond
microscopic reach, the assumption that vital phenomena are the result of
either molecular force or atomic force, rests upon no other basis than
that of imaginary hypothesis. To postulate any such theory of life, is
going beyond the limits of experimental research and inquiry, and hence
adopting an unscientific method. At what point the smallest living
organism is launched into existence--started on its life-journey--no one
is confident enough to assert. The materialist is just as dumb on this
subject as the vitalist; and the only advantage he can have over his
antagonist is to stand on this extreme verge of attenuated matter, and
deny the existence of any force beyond it. The postulation by him of
molecular force at this point, is virtually an abandonment of the whole
controversy. He ceases to be a materialist the moment he passes the
visible boundaries of matter, in search of anything like "undifferentiated
sky-mist" beyond it.

All that we definitely know is that certain conditions of protoplasmic
matter, of organic solutions, of soil-constituents, etc., produce certain
forms of life; and, in the case of solutions, certain low forms of life:
But whether the lower rise, by any insensible gradations, into the higher,
more complex, and definitely expressed forms of life, is altogether
unknown. That any such gradations can be traced from the lowest vital
unit, in the alleged collocations of molecules, is not yet claimed. These
primordial collocations, like the lowest living organisms, lie beyond the
microscopic aids to vision, so that the ultimate genesis of life remains
as much a mystery as ever--becomes, in fact, a mere speculative
hypothesis. And when it comes to this sort of speculation, the materialist
is just as much in the dark as the vitalist, and neither can have any
advantage over the other, except as the one may adopt the analytic, and
the other the synthetic method.

This is the materialistic argument covering the _de novo_ origin of living
organisms:--There is no greater microscopical evidence, they assert, that
these organisms come from pre-existing invisible germs or vital units,
than that crystals are produced in a similar manner--that is, come from
pre-existing invisible germs of crystals. But this is overlooking all
generic distinction in respect to processes or modes of action. Crystals
are inorganic matter which _form_, do not _grow_. They are mere
symmetrical arrangements, not organic growths; and are produced by some
law akin to chemical affinity, acting on the molecules of their
constituent mass. They possess no vital function. They show no beginning
or cessation of life. But, once locked up in their geometric solids, they
remain permanently enduring forms--concessively inorganic, not
functionally-endowed, matter. To speak, therefore, of the "germs of
crystals," is using language that has no appreciable significance to us.
Germs are embryonic, and imply a law of growth--a process of assimilation,
not of mere aggregation.

But, at the risk of being tedious, let us extend this argument of the
materialists a little further: The only difference, they will still
insist, between the preëxisting germs of crystals and plants--or the only
difference essentially worth noticing--is that crystalline particles of
matter are endowed with much less potentiality of undergoing diversified
forms and structural changes than the more highly favored vital particles,
such as the proligerous pellicle, the bioplast, the plastide, etc. The one
represents mere crystallizable matter, the other the more complex
colloidal or albuminoid substance, or that capable of producing a much
greater number of aggregates. The analogies, they concede, end here. But
the difference is world-wide when we come to processes--the true
experimental test in all classification. Crystallizable substances
_crystallize_--that is all. They pass into a fixed and immovable state,
and mostly into one as enduring as adamant; while colloidal or albuminoid
matter (laboratory protoplasm) takes on no fixed forms--only those that
are ephemeral, merely transitory. This is so marked a feature, in respect
to all the primordial forms of life, that Professor Bastian gives them the
more distinctive name of "ephemeromorphs," in place of _infusoria_. But
all these primordial forms grow--develop into vital activity. Not so with
a solitary crystal. Everywhere the statical unit _forms_, the dynamical
unit _grows_; the one aggregates, the other assimilates; the one
solidifies, the other opens up into living tissue; the one rests in the
embrace of eternal silence, the other breaks the adamantine doors, and
makes nature resonant with praise.

Great stress is laid by the materialists on the changeability of certain
microscopic forms, and the startling metamorphoses they apparently undergo
in different infusions, especially those forms having developmental
tendencies towards fungi and certain low forms of algæ. They attribute
their different modes of branching, articulation, segmentation of
filaments, etc., both to intrinsic tendencies and extrinsic causes, the
latter depending, no doubt, in a great measure upon the chemical changes
constantly taking place in their respective infusions. These intrinsic
tendencies, they would have us believe, depend upon the dynamic force of
molecules, rather than any vital unit, or even change in elementary
conditions. But "Dynamism" simply implies that force inheres in, or
appertains to, all material substance, without specifically designating
either the quantity or quality of the inhering force. If these
materialists, therefore, use the terms "dynamic force," in this
connection, in the sense in which we use vital force, or in the sense in
which they use "statical force" as applied to the formation of crystals,
in contradistinction from "dynamical force" as applied to living
organisms, we have no special objection to urge against this particular
formula. It presents no such formidable antagonism as the vitalists would
expect to encounter from them.

M. Dutrochet is approvingly quoted by Professor Bastian, as asserting that
he could produce different genera of mouldiness (low mycological forms)
_at will_, by simply employing different infusions. This is unquestionably
true, with certain limitations. And the chief limitation is as to _his_
(M. Dutrochet's) will. He might "will," for instance, to plant one field
with corn and another with potatoes, but if the husbandman he employed to
do the planting should happen to plant the one crop where he had willed to
plant the other, and corn should grow where potatoes were planted, and
_vice versa_, then he might be said to have produced corn _at will_. And
so of his infusions. No change in their conditions enabled him to produce
one species, much less a genus, of mouldiness in preference to another, by
any change in the infusions employed by him. The power which implants life
in the mycological world, implants it in every other world, from that
without beginning to that without end. And this implanted life is quite as
complete in one form as another,--

  "As full, as perfect, in vile man that mourns,
  As the rapt seraph that adores and burns."

All that the materialists can claim respecting man's agency in the
production of life is, that he may take advantage of the uniform laws of
nature, so far as they are known to him, planting seeds here, changing
chemical conditions there, using different infusions in his experimental
flasks,--organic or inorganic, as he may choose--and then await the
action of these uniform laws. He will find them operative everywhere, and
if he studies them deeply enough, he will find that they are not so much
the laws of nature as they are the laws of nature's God.

Professor Bastian thinks he has conclusive evidence that what he calls
"new-born specks of living matter" are produced _de novo_, that is,
independently of any conceivable germ or germinal principle of life
implanted in nature. But he confounds this implanted principle of life
with the living organism it produces. His morphological cells, as well as
plastide particles, are among these living organisms, as is conclusively
shown by his own experiments. These all perish in his super-heated flasks.
But the vital principle that produced them--that which becomes germinal
under the proper conditional incidences--he can no more destroy by
experimentation than he can create a new world or annihilate the old one.
His flask experiments, therefore, prove nothing; and all this talk about
_de novo_ production is the sheerest scientific delusion. For, were it
possible to destroy every plant, tree, shrub, blade of grass, weed, seed,
underground root, nut, and tuber to-day, the earth would teem with just as
diversified a vegetation as ever to-morrow. A few trees, like the gigantic
conifers of the Pacific slope, might not make their appearance again, and
some plants might drop out of the local flora; but the _Pater omnipotens
Æther_ of Virgil, would descend into the bosom of his joyous spouse (the
earth), and, great himself, mingle with her great body, in all the
prodigality, profusion, and wealth of vegetation as before.[27]

But these defiant challengers of the vitalists, who refuse us even the
right to assume the existence of a special "vital force" in nature, are
anything but consistent in their logical deductions. For while they
resolutely deny the invasion of vital germs in their experimental flasks,
they talk as flippantly of the "germs of crystals," and their presence in
saline and other solutions, as if there were no scientific formula more
satisfactorily generalized than that establishing their existence. Even
Professor Bastian speaks of "germs," in a general sense, as if they
thronged the earth, air, water, and even the stratified rocks, in
countless and unlimited numbers. But we fail to see that any of his
accurately obtained results determine their exclusion from the
experimental media employed by him for that purpose. His unit of value is
a morphological cell, a derivative organism rather than a primary vital
unit; and all organisms are, as we have before said, destructible by heat.
Professor Agassiz is pretty good authority for doubting the existence of
such a cell. The difficulty of assigning to it any definitional value is,
that it lies too near the ultimate implications of matter--those shadowy
and inexplicable confines not yet reached--to admit of any scientific
explication necessarily resting on objective data. If they mean by "germs"
primary organic cells, then none exist in their super-heated infusions,
and they are logical enough in rejecting the idea of their invasion. But
in assuming the cell to be the ultimate unit of value, is where they trip
in attribution, and stumble upon a partial judgment only.

The only value attaching to their theory of crystalline germs is, that it
conclusively establishes the law of uniformity by which all structural
forms are determined, whether they originate in organic infusions or
inorganic solutions--in protoplasm or protoprism. The crystalline system
presents no variability in types, but a rigid adherence to specific forms
of definitely determined value. Whatever geometrical figure any particular
crystal assumed at first, it has continued to assume ever since, and will
forever assume hereafter. As a primary conception of the "Divine
Intendment" (to speak after the manner of Leibnitz) it can neither change
itself, nor become subject to any law of change, or variability, from
eternally fixed types. And this is as demonstrably true of all living
types, after reaching the point of heredity, as of the countless
crystalline forms that go to make up the principal bulk of our planet. In
this light, and as affording this conclusive induction, the crystalline
argument of the materialists has its value.

The materialists should not too mincingly chop logic over the validity of
their own reasoning. If they force upon us their conclusions respecting
statical aggregates, or crystalline forms, let them accept the inductions
that inevitably follow in the case of dynamical aggregates, or living
organisms. Beggars of conditions should not be choosers of conditions,
nor should they be al lowed to dodge equivalent judgments where the
validity of one proposition manifestly rests upon that of another. If
they insist upon the presence of a chemical unit, or, worse still, a
crystalline "germ" or unit, in the case of statical aggregations, they
are effectually estopped from denying the presence of vital units in
dynamical aggregations. And if they further force upon us the conviction
that the process of aggregation, when once determined, remains in the one
case, eternally fixed and certain, they should not be permitted to turn
round and insist that, in the other case, there is nothing fixed and
certain, but all is variability, change, uncertainty of specific forms.
If vital units have only a hypothetical existence, then chemical units,
statical units, and morphological units, should fall into the same
categories of judgment.

A great deal of needless ingenuity has been wasted, both by the vitalists
and materialists, in formulating impossible definitions of life--in
attempts to tell us what life is. But Mr. Herbert Spencer is believed, by
his many admirers, to have hit upon the precise explanatory phrases
necessary to convey its true definitional meaning. He defines it as "_the
continuous adjustment of internal relations to external relations_." This
definition, when first formulated, was received by all the materialists of
Europe with the wildest enthusiasm. It was absolutely perfect. All the
phenomenal facts of life fitted into it, as one box, in a nest of them,
fitted into another. The universal world was challenged to show that any
other phenomenal fact than the one of life would fit into this prodigious
formula of Mr. Spencer. The London "Times" tried its hand on it, but only
in a playful way. It said: "All the world, or at least all living things,
are nothing but large boxes containing an infinite number of little boxes,
one within the other, and the least and tiniest box of all contains the
germ,"--the elementary principle of life. But this was hardly a legitimate
characterization. A nest of boxes presents no idea of "continuous
adjustment," nor are the internal relations of one box adjusted to the
external relations of another. The definition is really that of a piece of
working machinery--any working machinery--and was designed to cover Mr.
Spencer's theory of "molecular machinery" as run by molecular force.

But the earth presents the most perfect adjustment of internal relations
to those that are external, and it continuously presents them. Even the
upheaval of its fire-spitting mountains affords the highest demonstration
of the adjustment of its inner terrestrial forces to those that are purely
external; and much more does it show the adjustment of its internal to its
external relations. There is a continuous adaptation of means to ends, of
causes to effects, of adjustments to re-adjustments, in respect to the
characteristics of the earth's surface--its physical configuration, the
distribution of its fluids and solids, its fauna and flora, its
hygrometric and thermometric conditions, its ocean, wind, and
electro-magnetic currents, and even its meteorological manifestations--all
showing a continuous adjustment of interior to exterior conditions or
relations. The earth should, therefore, fall under the category of "life,"
according to Herbert Spencer's definitional formula. And so should an
automatic dancing-jack that is made to run by internal adjustments to
external movements or manifestations. There are any number of Professor
Bastian's "ephemoromorphs" that do not live half as long as one of these
automatic dancing-jacks will run, and so long as they run, the adjustment
of their internal to their external relations is continuous.

The success of Mr. Spencer's definition of "life" encouraged Professor
Bastian to try his hand at it, with this definitional result: "Life," he
says, "is an unstable collocation of Matter (with a big M), capable of
growing by selection and interstitial appropriation of new matter (what
new matter?) which then assumes similar qualities, of continually varying
in composition in response to variations of its Medium (another big M),
and which is capable of self-multiplication by the separation of portions
of its own substance."

It shall not be our fault if the reader fails to understand this
definition--to untwist this formidable formula of life. And we can best
aid him by grammatically analyzing its structure. And,

1. "Life is capable of growing." We are glad to know this. As a vitalist
it enables us to take a step towards the front--gets us off the "back
seat" to which we were summarily ordered at the outset of this inquiry. We
let its "unstable collocation" pass for what it is worth, and stick to our
grammatical analysis.

2. "Life grows--is capable of doing something." This assurance positively
encourages us.

3. "It grows by selection and interstitial appropriation." This is still
more encouraging. It emboldens us to take a second step forward. Life, we
feel, is increasing in potentiality.

4. "By appropriation it enables _new matter to assume similar qualities
to old matter_." This makes us more confident than ever; we take another
step forward--are half disposed to take two of them. Life is getting to
be almost a "potentiated potentiality," to adopt the style of
materialistic phrases.

5. "It causes matter _to continually vary in composition._" Bravo! we
unhesitatingly take two steps forward on the strength of this most
comforting assurance. Life is assuredly getting the upperhand of
Matter (with a big M.) It is no longer a mere "undiscovered correlate
of motion"--a hypothetical slave to matter only. It wrestles with
it--throws it into the shade. We involuntarily take several more
steps forward.

6. "Life is capable of self-multiplication"--has almost a creative
faculty. Here we interject a perfect bravura of "bravoes," and,
stepping boldly up to the front, demand of Professor Bastian to "throw
up the sponge," take a back seat, and there--formulate us a new
definition of "life."

But our London University materialist is not entirely satisfied with his
own definition, or at least with the moral effect of it. He thinks that
all these attempts to define life as a non-entity only, tend to keep up
the demoralizing idea that it is an actual entity. We entirely agree with
him in this conclusion. The infelicity and entire inconclusiveness of the
definition he has vouchsafed us can hardly have any other effect. He sees
this himself, and hence this foot-note to his great work on
Ephemeromorphs: "Inasmuch as no life can exist without an organism, of
which it is the phenomenal manifestation, so it seems comparatively
useless to attempt to define this phenomenal manifestation alone--and,
what is worse, such attempts tend to keep up the idea that life is an
independent entity."

It may be objected that our grammatical analysis of the professor's
definition of life is unfair, since he manifestly intended that it should
cover a "living thing," and not "life" as an abstract, term. Our reply to
this is, that he makes no distinction between the two. Life, with him, is
simply a phenomenal manifestation. The two are correlative terms; so that
his definition of the one must necessarily be the definition of the other,
either as an identical or partial judgment. But let us take his definition
entirely out of its abstract sense, and run it into the concrete. The able
pathological anatomist of the London University college is a "living
thing." He is, therefore, presumably a phenomenal manifestation. He is
capable of growing, by "selection and interstitial appropriation," in
reputation at least, if not in the direction of "an independent entity."
His work of twelve hundred pages, covering his laborious delvings into the
ephemeromorphic world, is conclusive on this point. As a phenomenal
manifestation alone, any attempt to define either him or his professional
labors, may be worse than useless, since it would tend to keep up the idea
that he is an actual London entity. We are very confident that he is not a
London non-entity, but are willing to agree that he is either the one or
the other. The flaw that we are after lies in his interstitial logic, not
in the hallucination in which he indulges respecting nonentities. His
assumption that life cannot exist without an organism, of which it is the
phenomenal manifestation, is what we propose to deal with.

Now, directly the reverse of this proposition is what is true. An organism
cannot exist without life or an independent vital principle in nature, any
more than celestial bodies can be held in their place independently of
gravitation. The vital principle that organizes must precede the thing
organized or the living organism, as the great formative principle of the
universe (call it the will of God, gravitation or what you may) must have
existed before the first world-aggregation. In logic, we must either
advance or fall back--insist upon precedence being given to cause over
effect, or deny their relative connection altogether. The organism is the
phenomenal manifestation, not the vital principle which organizes it. To
say that there can be no _manifestation_ of life without an organism is
true; but to assume that the vital principle which organizes is dependent
on its own organism for its manifestation is absurd. It would be the
lesser fallacy to deny the phenomenal fact altogether, and insist that
cause and effect are mere intellectual aberrations, or such absurd mental
processes as find no correlative expression in nature, as that embodying
the idea of either an antecedent or a consequent.

"Plato lived." He ate, he drank, he talked divinely. He was the occupant
of an admirably constructed life-mansion; one that St. Paul would have
looked upon as "the temple of God," and all the world would have
recognized as a god-like temple. His head was a study for the Greek
chisel; none was ever more perfectly modeled, or artistically executed.
All agreed in this. And yet it was not the _habitat_ but the _habitant_
that attracted the admiration of the Greek mind; enkindled its highest
enthusiasm; drew all the schools of philosophy, about him at once. It was
the lordly occupant of the temple, the indwelling _Archeus_, presiding
over all the organic phenomena and directing all the dynamic powers
therein, which was so profoundly present in the living Plato. Even
Professor Haeckel, of the famous University of Jena, would not deny this,
with all that his new terms "ontogeny" and "phylogeny" may imply. When
potential life passed over into actual life in the individual Plato, it
was not the pabulum that assimilated the man, but the man the pabulum. If
this were not so, then the mere potentiality of growing, as in the case
of plants and animals, would be all there is to distinguish the
phenomenal manifestation of a Plato from that of a mole or a
cabbage-stalk. In other words, if the animating principle of life--or, as
the Bible has it, the "animating soul of life"--is not what manifests
itself in material embodiment, but the reverse, what can Professor
Haeckel mean by his new term "phylogeny," which ought to cover the lines
of descent in all organic beings?

If it be a question of mere pabulum, it is altogether _mal posé_. Pabulum
is nothing without a preëxisting "something" to dispose of it. It is not
so much as a jelly-mass breakfast for one of Professor Haeckel's
"protamoebæ;" for if it were served up in advance, there would be none of
his little non-nucleated jelly-eaters to partake of it, much less any of
his "protogenes." As the famous Mrs. Glass would say, in her "hand-book of
cookery," if you want a delightful "curry," first catch your hare. But our
ingenious professor of Jena dispenses with both the hare and the curry, in
serving up his pabulum to the "protamoebæ." The improvident pabulum
"evolves" its own eaters, and then, spider-like, is eviscerated by them,
as was Actaeon by his own hounds. As Life, therefore, begins in the
tragedy of Mount Cithæron, it is to be hoped it will end in the delights
of Artemis and her bathing nymphs.




Chapter VIII.

Materialistic Theories of Life Refuted.



The methods by which the advocates of a purely physical origin of life
seek to establish the correctness of their conclusions, are unfortunately
not always attended by uniform results in experimentation. They subject
their solutions of organic matter to a very high temperature by means of
super-heated flasks, the tubes to which are so packed in red-hot materials
that whatever air may enter them shall encounter a much greater degree of
heat than that indicated by boiling water. At this temperature (100°
C--212° F) they assume that all living organisms perish, especially when
the solutions containing them have been kept, for the space of fifteen or
twenty minutes, at this standard point of heat. But, in the light of all
the experiments which have been made in this direction, there is some
doubt as to the entire correctness of their assumption. That many, if not
most living organisms, perish at a temperature of 100° C, there is little
or no doubt; but that there are some which are much more tenacious of
life, that is, possess greater vital resistance to heat, is equally
unquestionable.

M. Pasteur, for instance, mentions the spores of certain fungi which are
capable of germinating after an exposure of some minutes to a temperature
of 120° to 125° C. (248-257° F), while the same spores entirely lose their
germinating power after an exposure for half an hour or more to a slightly
higher temperature. Dr. Grace-Calvert, in a paper on "The Action of Heat
on Protoplasmic Life," recently published in the proceedings of the Royal
Society, asserts that certain "black vibrios" are capable of resisting the
action of fluids at a temperature as high as 300° F, although exposed
therein for half an hour or more. But none of these crucial tests, however
diverse in experimental results, really touch the all-important question
in controversy. They all relate either to living organisms, or to the
seeds and spores of vegetation, not to living indestructible
"germs"--invisible vital units--declared to be in the earth itself.

We use the term "vital unit" in the same restricted sense in which the
materialists speak of "chemical units," "morphological units," etc., which
they admit are invisible in the microscopic field, and hence they can have
no positive information as to their destructibility or indestructibility
by heat. That this vital unit lies, in its true functional tendencies,
between the chemical and morphological units--manifesting itself in the
conditions of the one and resulting in the structural development of the
other--is no new or startling theory, but one that has been more or less
obscurely hinted at by Leibnitz, and even acknowledged as possible by
Herbert Spencer. It is this vital unit that assimilates or aggregates
protoplasmic matter into the morphological cell, or the initial organism
in a vital structure, or an approach towards structural form.
Morphological cells are not therefore "units," considered as the least of
any given whole, nor are they mere structureless matter, or any more
homogeneous in character than in substance. Different chemical solutions
give rise to different morphological cells, as differently constituted
soils produce different vegetal growths. Change the chemical conditions in
any solution or infusion, and you change the entire morphological
character of the infusoria appearing therein.[28] The cells are living
organisms springing from vital units, and can no more manifest themselves
independently of these units than life can manifest itself independently
of an actual organism. And they make their appearance in the proper
environing conditions, just as the oak comes from its primordial germ or
vital unit in the chemically changed conditions of the soil. Everywhere
the vital germ or unit precedes the vital growth as the plant or tree
precedes the natural seeds it bears.

This is not only the logical order, but the exact scientific method of
vital manifestation and growth. In this truth lies the whole mystery of
vegetal and animal life as hitherto manifested on our globe, with the
single exception of man whose crowning distinction it was to receive "a
living soul." This may be rejected as a scientific statement, but its
verification will appear in the very act of its rejection. Pry as deeply
as we may into the _arcana_ of nature in search of exact scientific truth,
and we shall ultimately land in one or the other of these
propositions,--either that nature was originally endowed with some occult
and unknown power "to bring forth," which power is either continuously
inherent or continuously imparted, or else "specific creation" was the
predetermined plan and purpose, with no higher or more specialized animal
or vegetal forms than were specifically created in the beginning.
Otherwise, we are inevitably forced back, by our mental processes, which
we cannot resist, upon an effect without a cause--a physical law of the
universe without any conceivable law-giver--an all-pervading,
all-energizing principle of matter which must have existed as a cause
infinitely anterior to its first effect. And this is forcing language into
such crazy and paralytic conclusions as to utterly destroy its efficiency
as a vehicle of thought.

To conceive of the existence of the universe, or of any possible law that
may be operative therein, without an adequate antecedent cause, is as
metaphysically impossible as to conceive of substance without form, space
without extension, or a God who has been superceded in the universe by the
operation of his own laws. For if the world-ordaining and world-arranging
intelligence of the universe has ceased to ordain and arrange,--if all
things therein have been left to the operation of fixed and eternally
unchangeable laws--then no further supervisional direction is required on
the part of either an infinite or a finite intelligence, and our idea of a
God must disappear in the paramount induction of a universe which has
successfully risen up in insurrection against its own maker and lawgiver,
if it has not remorselessly consigned him to some inconceivable limbo
outside of the universe itself. But this Titanic, and worse than satanic,
insurrection on the part of a universe of matter and motion, is only the
conjectural coinage of the human brain--the wild supposition hazarded by
the materialistic mind--and fortunately has no conceivable counterpart
outside of it.

But the palpable blunder, in materialistic science, consists in its
overlooking the necessary outgrowth of theological ideas in the human
mind--as conclusively a phenomenal fact of nature as the invariable
uniformity of astronomical movements, the ebb and flow of the tides, or
the electro-magnetic waves of the earth itself. And nature furnishes no
greater clue to the one set of phenomena than the other. For when we say
that bodies act one upon another by the force of gravity, we are no nearer
an explication of the force itself, than we should be were we to allege
any corresponding manifestation on the part of the human mind. Kant says;
"We cannot conceive of the existence of matter without the forces of
attraction and repulsion--the conflict of two elementary forces in the
universe;" much less can we have any conception of the elementary forces
themselves. Science can, therefore, assign no more conclusive reason for
overlooking psychical manifestations than physical phenomena. Nor is the
one set of phenomena any more marvellous in its manifestations than the
other. They may both furnish food for speculative thought and inquiry, and
yet the nearer we get to the ultimate implications of either, the more
completely are we lost in Professor Tyndall's "primordial haze," from
which he assumes that the universe, and all the phenomenal manifestations
therein, originally came.

But however rapidly these materialistic theories may disappear in the
scientific waste-basket of the future, there is one sublime verity that
will stand the test of all time, and that is, that the moral universe of
God is no less complete, in the Divine Intendment, than the physical
universe, while the latter is so inter-correlated and inter-tissued with
the former, in all its conceivable relations, that it can no more exist
independently of its correlative, than matter can exist independently of
space, or time independently of eternity. [29]

According to this view of Leibnitz, all living organisms have their own
essence, or essential qualities and characteristics. They have been from
all eternity in the "Divine Intendment," and can undergo no changes or
modifications which shall make them essentially different from what they
were in the beginning, or are now. This is not only true of the "germs"
that are "in themselves upon the earth," but of every living thing,
whether lying within or beyond the telescopic or microscopic limits. As a
law of causation, as well as of consecutive thought, there must be in the
order of life (all life) a continuous chain of ideas linking the past to
the present, the present to the future, and the future to eternity. But
that this continuous chain is dependent on mere physical changes or
manifestations, is a logical induction utterly incapable of being
exhibited in scientific formulæ. The higher and more satisfactory
induction is that which places cause before effect, the Maker before the
made, the Creator before the creature, and so on, in the analogical order,
till the smallest conceivable "vital unit" is reached in the universe of
organic matter. To begin, therefore, with microscopic observation, at a
point in the ephemeromorphic world where that optical instrument fails to
give back any intelligible answer, and synthetically follow this chain of
causation upward and outward to Dr. Tyndall's "fiery cloud of mist," in
which it is assumed that all the diversified possibilities and
potentialities of the universe once lay latent, may answer the logical
necessities of the "Evolution" theory, but will never satisfy the
inductive processes of a Plato, a Leibnitz, or a Newton.

Professor Tyndall, in speaking of his "fiery-cloud" theory, says: "Many
who hold the hypothesis of natural evolution would probably assent to the
position (his position) that at the present moment all our philosophy, all
our poetry, all our science, all our art,--Plato, Shakespeare, Newton, and
a Da Vinci--are potential in the fires of the sun." But, to be consistent
in their inductions, they should proclaim themselves sun-worshippers at
once, and ascribe to that transcendent luminary all the potentialities of
a universe

  "Fresh-teeming from the hand of God."

But what possible advantage, we would ask, can this physical hypothesis of
life have over that which ascribes to God the issues of all life in the
universe, from the highest to the lowest living organism? We can
positively conceive of none but that of placing the cosmological cart
before the horse, and so harnessing "cause and effect" _in tandem_, that
the latter shall uniformly precede the former in the chain of logical
induction. As a dialectical feat, in exhibiting the higher possibilities
of logic, it may have its advantages in subordinating the facts of science
to the higher illuminations of fancy, and thus resting the basis of
reality on the ever-changing and ever-shifting assumptions of the human
mind. For the materialistic theories of to-day are not those of yesterday,
nor is there any certainty that they will be those of to-morrow. They are
almost as fantastic and variable as the forms of the kaleidoscope,
although, as a general rule, they lack the symmetrical arrangements and
proportions of that scientific toy.

Professor Bastian, in considering the heterogenetic phenomena of "living
matter," is obliged to fall back, near the end of his great work, on "the
countless myriads of living units which have been evolved (?) in the
different ages of the world's history." But by what process a "vital
unit" can be _evolved_, he does not condescend to tell us. He has no
"primordial formless fog" to fall back upon as has Professor Tyndall, nor
can he imagine anything beyond the least of possible conceptions in a
chemical, morphological, or vital unit. A "unit" can neither be evolved
nor involved; it admits of no square, no multiple, no differentiation; it
is simply the ever-potent unit of "organic polarity," by which it
multiplies effects, but can never be multiplied itself. The chief fault
that we have to find with the London University professor is that he
confounds a morphological cell with a morphological unit, and insists
upon drawing unwarrantable conclusions therefrom. His "countless myriads
of living units" are all well enough in their way. That they exist in the
earth, and are constantly developed into innumerable multitudes of living
organisms, of almost inconceivable variety, in both the animal and
vegetal world, is true, as he half-reluctantly admits in almost the
identical language we here use.

And he also admits that morphological cells, when once formed, continue to
grow by their own individual power or inherent tendency. But before they
can manifest any such inherent tendency, they must be developed from the
vital units that lie back of them, and on which their manifestation
unquestionably depends. The only doubt that can possibly exist on this
point is, that the process of development cannot be determined by
microscopic examination. But we may as well assume the presence of vital
units in the case of dynamical aggregates, as for Professor Bastian to
insist upon crystalline units in the case of statical aggregates or
crystals. Both processes, in their initial stages of development, lie
beyond the reach of human scrutiny, and all that we know, or possibly can
know, is, that certain inorganic conditions are favorable for the
development of crystals, as certain organic conditions are favorable for
the development of morphological cells. Beyond this Professor Bastian
knows nothing--we know nothing.

Professor Beale, in his recent work on "the Mystery of Life"--one that is
now justly attracting very wide attention--says: "Between the two sets of
phenomena, physical and vital, not the faintest analogy can be shown to
exist. The idea of a particle of muscular or nerve tissue being formed by
a process akin to crystallization, appears ridiculous to any one who has
studied the two classes of phenomena, or is acquainted with the structure
of these tissues." And he quietly, yet effectively, ridicules the idea
that the ultimate molecules of matter--substantially the same matter, in
fact--have the power to arrange themselves, independently of vital
tendency, alternately into a dog-cell or a man-cell, according to the
specific direction they may take, or the incidence of conditions they may
undergo, in their primary movement. And for the benefit of Professor
Beale, behind whose "bioplasts," we place the "vital unit"--not a variable
but a constant unit--we would have him bear in mind (what he so well
knows) that the finest fibres that go to make up these tissues lie quite
beyond the microscopic limit in their interlaced and spirally-coiled
reticulations, so that nothing can be predicated of their ultimate
contexture, any more than of the ultimate distribution of matter itself.
He has himself traced these wonderfully minute nerve-ramifications under
glasses of the highest magnifying power, and knows that their ultimate
distribution cannot be reached. Let him come out then, as the ablest
vitalist now living, and boldly assert the presence of the man-_unit_ and
the dog-_unit,_ instead of falling back on his bioplastic spinners and
weavers of tissue, which are only the servants and willing workers of the
one integral unit, or life-directing force, within. It is far more
rational, and, at the same time, more accordant with strict scientific
methods, to attribute these muscular and nerve reticulations to a single
direct cause, than to a multitude of secondary causes.

There is a world-wide difference between the dog-_ego_ and the man-_ego;_
but the physical differences are not by any means the greatest. The
bioplastic spinners and weavers work as obediently for the one
master-_ego_ as the other. They never stop to inquire how far they shall
differentiate this vital tissue or that, or in what direction even they
shall work. Not a thread is spun nor a shuttle thrown that is not directed
by the one head-webster of vital tissue. These obedient bioplasts
determine nothing, direct nothing. Each works in his own cell as
obediently as a galley-slave. All specific modifications, all determinate
movements, all molecular arrangements, all multiplications of bioplastic
force, are the work of the one vital webster, or principle of life,
within--that which shapes all, directs all, determines all. And this is
true from the first or embryological inception of the dog-unit or "germ,"
until the real occupant of the dog-tenement dismisses his bioplastic
weavers, and lies down to die. And so of all vital units. Each determines
its own structural form, and unchangeably retains it to the end, even to
the slightest impression of a scar inflicted years and years before. The
occupant of this dog-mansion has dismissed one set of bioplastic weavers
after another; has thrown aside this spun tissue and that warp and woof of
woven texture, time and time again, so that the dog of to-day is not the
same _physical_ dog of a year ago; and yet he has the same affection for
his master, carries with him the same scar received twenty years before in
the chase, gives the same glad bark of welcome as his owner nears home,
exhibits the same characteristic wag in his tail, and, lying down to
sleep, dreams of the once happy chase in which he is no longer able to
engage. This continuous presence of the same dog, through all these twenty
years of physical change--the old dog reappearing in the new, a dozen
times over--is what we mean by the constantly differentiating yet
undifferentiated "dog-unit."

Those who attempt to bisect this vital unit, divide it up into one
fractional part after another, until it shall represent a million
bioplastic workers in as many different cells, are committing the same
sort of folly--in principle at least, if not in practice--as that which
led the simple-minded daughters of Pelias to cut up their father, in the
expectation of boiling the old bioplasts into new, and then, by the
cunning aid of Medea, who directed the operation, reuniting them into the
one Peliastic-unit they so much delighted to honor. But this first and
only recorded attempt at differentiating a vital unit disastrously failed,
as the reader of ancient myths well knows, although the experiment was
conducted by the most careful and loving hands. The necessary chemical
re-agents to reproduce life, as well as the necessary processes of
producing it _de novo_ have not yet been ascertained, nor is it likely
they ever will be. And herein lies the most marked distinction between
crystallizable matter and living substance.

And yet there is no evidence that the vital principle perishes in the
destruction of its temporary organism. It is not the material seed that
germinates, but the vital principle it contains, bursting forth from its
environment into newness of life. All that can be alleged of either boiled
or calcined seeds is, that the material substances of which they were
composed are so changed in their chemical constituents, or molecular
adjustment, that they are no longer capable of developing, or being
developed, into a living organism. "Principles never die," and this is as
true of the vital principles in nature, as those obtaining in ethics and
morals. Were it possible to restore the exact chemical conditions and
constituent particles of the boiled or calcined seed, there is no more
doubt that nature would respond to the environing conditions, and give
forth the proper expression of plant-life, than there is that crystals of
spar would make their appearance in an overcharged bath chemically
prepared for that purpose. It is not the albuminous substance enclosed in
the seed, but the vital principle therein--that continuously imparted to
nature from the great vital fountain of the universe--which burgeons forth
into life whenever and wherever the required conditions obtain.

In proof of this statement, we might instance any number of cases where
recently abandoned brick-yards and other clayey excavations, were situated
at considerable distances from any natural water-courses, or fish-stocked
ponds, from which spawn could have been derived, and yet these excavations
have no sooner been filled with permanently standing rain water, than
certain small fishes of the _Cyprinidae_ and other families, have made
their appearance therein.[30] Nobody has thought of stocking these
standing pools of water with the fish in question, nor has there been any
surface overflow to account for their presence, nor any other apparent
means of transportation, if we except the fish-catching birds, and they
generally swallow their food in the water or on the nearest tree to the
point of capture. Any theory accounting for the presence of spawn is,
therefore, out of the question. This spawn must have traversed hard clay
deposits for the distance of half a mile or more to make their appearance
in these waters. The only possible explanation of this class of phenomena,
and they are by no means infrequent, is to be found in "favoring
conditions" and the "presence of vital units." They are primordial
manifestations of life, and such as would have made their appearance in
any corresponding latitude of the southern hemisphere, under the same
favoring conditions.

And this is true of all living organisms from the lowest morphological
cell, in the ichthyologic world, to the highest and lordliest conifer that
grows. Their spawn and seeds are perishable by heat, but the vital
principle that organizes them is as imperishable in one element as
another. No seven-times heated furnace, much less the experimental flasks
of the physicist, will affect a vital principle of nature any more than a
May-morning puff of the east wind would shake Olympus. And all the
countless myriads of vital units in nature are now manifesting themselves
in animal and vegetal forms, under favoring conditions, the same as in
those far-distant epochs of the world's history when a more exuberant
vegetation prevailed, if not a more abounding animal life. The same
persistent, ever-acting law of vital development and growth has been
present, in all conditions and circumstances of matter, ever since the
detritus of the silicious rocks felt the first influence of the rains, the
dews, and the sunlight. Then the earth commenced "to bring forth the
grass, the herb yielding seed, and the fruit-trees yielding fruit, after
his kind;" and in their growth was laid the foundation of animal life.
Whether there was any audible or inaudible command of God uttered at the
time, is not the question. It is the _fact_ of vital growth that we are
after, and not the command. The geologic records attest the fact, as well
as the ever-acting vital law; and it is enough for us to know, with sturdy
old Richard Hooker, that all law--and especially all _vital_ law--"has her
seat in the bosom of God, and her voice is the harmony of the world."

Professor Beale, while resolutely combating the physical hypothesis of
life, is not a little unfortunate in his use of scientific terms. He is
constantly using those of "living matter" and "dead matter," as if they
contained no fatal concession to the materialists, with which to
completely overthrow his own ultimate conclusions as to life. For he gains
nothing by merely substituting "bioplasm" and "bioplasts" for "protoplasm"
and "plastide particles." The essential plasma in both cases is the same,
and behind each lies the vital unit or principle therein manifested--the
invisible, indestructible germ or ZRA of the Bible genesis. Living
organisms come, of course, from this essential plasma, but without an
elementary principle or vital unit therein, there would be no "bioplasts,"
in the sense in which Professor Beale uses this term. These bioplasts are
living organisms which take up nutrient matter and convert it by
assimilation into tissues, nerves, fibres, bones, etc.--into the higher
and more complex organs that go to make up living structure. This
mysterious transmutation of one thing into another, as organic matter into
living organisms, is due to a vitally implanted principle, not to these
little bioplasts, or mere epithelial and other tools with which the vital
principle works. To apply the term "living matter" to the tools with which
a living structure is built up, is to lose sight of the master-mechanic
using them for an apparently intelligent purpose. The microscope may
demonstrate that these little bioplasts throb--have life; but there is no
intelligent purpose manifested by them except as they are moved by an
unseen hand that conclusively directs the whole structural work--builds up
the one complete symmetrical structure, not its thousand independent parts
having no relation to a general plan. The future lord and occupant of the
mansion is presumably present, and if he uses tools that "throb and have
life," it is because everything he touches is quickened into life that it
may be the more obedient to his will. If this structure be the
soul-endowed one of man, the vital principle imparted is that which
fashions the epithelial tools, and uses them, as well in laying the
embryological foundation, as in crowning its work with that many-colored
"dome of thought flashing the white radiance of eternity."

Mr. Joseph Cook, who enthusiastically follows Professor Beale in his
theory of life, in one of his "Boston Monday Lectures," says; "It is
beyond contradiction that we know that these little points ('bioplasts')
of structureless matter spin the threads, and weave the warp and woof, of
organisms." With all due respect to this distinguished lecturer, we must
except to not less than three points in as many lines of his
over-confident statement. In the first place, we know nothing respecting
the "beginnings of life," which may not be contradicted with some show of
reason. Take his own definition of "bioplasts," as copied from Professor
Beale, coupled with what they both term "nutrient matter" and "germinal
matter," or bioplasm, and this confident assertion of his will land him at
once where the highest powers of the microscope fail to give back any
intelligible answer, or where neither assertion nor contradiction avails
anything. A bioplast, they tell us, is a germinal point in germinal matter
or bioplasm. It is also assumed that the central portion of every cell in
an organic tissue is a bioplast. Here this wonderful little weaver of
tissue sits spinning his threads and weaving them into the warp and woof
of "formed matter"--that which, according to Professor Beale, becomes
"dead matter" as soon as it is woven! But it is admitted that the nerve
fibres constitute an uninterrupted network which admits of no
endings--that is, whose ultimate reticulations lie beyond the microscopic
limit. But there is a cell in every hundredth part of an inch of these
ultimate reticulations, in each of which one of these bioplastic weavers
sits plying his threads into the warp and woof of nerve tissue, if not of
nerve force. What is known of these little weavers, either by Mr. Joseph
Cook or Professor Lionel S. Beale? Manifestly nothing, unless they have
been specially favored with microscopes of over 2,800 diameters--the
highest yet made,--and have fathomed the ultimate implications of nerve
force; an assumption on the part of the Boston lecturer to which we are
bound to except.

Nor are these "bioplasts" mere structureless matter, however minute they
may be as "little points." They differ only from "morphological cells," in
the definitional language employed by different theorists, and lack the
all-essential accuracy of distinction necessary to scientific
classification. To define a bioplast as a germinal point in germinal
matter, or bioplasm, is to draw no satisfactory line of distinction
between the two, except that the one is a mere aggregation of the other. A
germinal mass is only made up of germinal points--those considered as the
least of any given whole--however infinitesimal they may be in theoretical
statement. If any germinal point in germinal matter, therefore, be a
bioplast, then every germinal point, to the extent of making up its entire
mass, must be a bioplast; and the distinction between the two becomes
merely verbal, and without generic signification. But every morphological
cell is conceded to be an organism, whether it lie within or beyond the
microscopic limit. And it invariably exhibits a greater or less amount of
cellular activity at its centre. It grows rather than spins; it builds up
tissue, rather than weaves it into warp and woof; it assimilates nutritive
matter rather than plies a loom in any conceivable sense in which we may
view that industrial machine. No matter what we may call this point of
vital activity in a cell--whether it be a bioplast, a plastid, a
physiological unit, or a granule of "elementary life-stuff"--it simply
performs the one single function of life to which it is specifically
assigned in the process of "building up" any one identical individual of a
species, whether it be a man, an ape, a tree, or a parasitic fungus. The
very admission that the bioplast spins, makes it an organism, and not mere
structureless matter. For the first thread it spins is manifestly for its
own covering or the ornamentation of its own cell-walls. And to speak of
these as "structureless matter" is to confound all scientific sense, as
well as meaning.

The third objection to Mr. Cook's statement is, that if bioplasts spin, it
is as dependent, and not as independent machines or agencies. There are
millions of these bioplasts--taking the word in the sense in which
Professor Beale uses it--in every living organism considered as a
biological whole. In the case of man, there are millions of them within a
comparatively small compass; and each has its own cell to which its
specific work is assigned. Now, these germinal points, or bioplasts, in
each of these myriads of cells, work, not separately and independently,
like so many oysters in their respective shells, but harmoniously and
together, as if under the supervisional direction of one supreme architect
and builder. This builder is that one elementary principle of life,
appertaining to each specific individual as a species, with which nature
was endowed from the beginning, and which, in the case of man, was a
direct emanation from Deity. It is this vital principle manifesting itself
_in_ all living organisms, not _from_ them; directing Professor Beale's
"bioplastic weavers," not directed by them; availing itself of necessary
plasmic conditions, if not giving rise to them in the first instance;
observing no developmental processes by which one form of life laps over
upon another, and following no order but that of universal harmony in the
Divine intendment. There is struggle and rivalry for existence, even among
the same classes, orders, genera, and species, and the smallest and
weakest must give place to the largest and strongest everywhere, and _vice
versa_, as Time, the greatest of all rodents, gnaws away at the mystical
tree of life. But in every living organism, from the lowest and simplest
to the highest and most complex, all bioplastic spinners of filamentous
tissue, all plastide weavers of membranous or spun matter, all epithelial
bobbin-runners, and other anatomical helpers and workers, perform their
respective tasks under the special supervision we have named, that is,
under the higher unit of life. They all work for the advancement and
well-being of the higher organism of which they form a component and
necessarily subordinate part.

The fact that Professor Beale has discovered that what he calls bioplasm
and germinal points or bioplasts may take on a distinct and separate color
from tissue, when subjected to a solution of carmine in ammonia, is no
evidence that he has penetrated the adytum of this sacred temple of Life,
wherein lies the "mystery of mysteries." It is an important discovery so
far as tracing tissue is concerned, but it admits him into no higher
mystery within the temple built by God than another may attain to by the
accidental discovery that the tissues may take on the same color in some
other solution--by no means an improbable discovery. Carmine in ammonia is
not the only solution that may aid science in the investigations now being
carried forward by the vitalists and non-vitalists with so much bitterness
and asperity of feeling between them; and now that Professor Beale has
made _his_ happy discovery, it is by no means certain that some other
equally persistent worker in this interesting field of inquiry may not hit
upon quite as happy a discovery in the same or some equivalent
direction--one that shall throw the bioplasmic theory as far into the
shade as Mr. Cook thinks the bioplasts have already thrown the cells.

But decidedly the most objectionable statement of Professor Beale,
although one confidently re-affirmed by our "Boston Monday Lecturer," is
that which makes bioplasm and bioplasts the only "living matter." We have
already referred to the phrases "living matter" and "non-living matter" as
altogether objectionable in biological statement, since they are more than
half-way concessions to the materialists, who contemptuously order the
vitalists to take a "back seat" in the discussions now going forward as to
the true origin of life. But the objection we here make is less technical,
and touches a far more vital point in the inquiry. It is true that
Professor Beale speaks of "formed matter," as if it were a peculiar
something--a sort of _tertium quid_--between living and non-living matter.
But he distinctly avers that the substance which turns red in his carmine
solutions is the "only living matter," and hence asserts, inferentially at
least, that all other matter, in any and every living organism, is "dead
matter." But we may just as confidently aver that no matter is living in
any vital organism which has not been assimilated and built up into living
membranous tissue capable of responding (in the case of man) to his will,
as well as performing the autonomous functions of plants and the lower
animals. For all these membranous tissues are innumerably thronged with
bioplasts or plastide particles, not for the purposes of obedience to
man's will, or of performing any autonomous function, but simply to supply
the tissues with the necessary nutrient matter to make up for the constant
waste that is going on in a healthy living organ. This waste is very much
greater than has heretofore been supposed, so that the man or animal of
to-day may be an entirely distinct and separate one, considered
materially, from that of a year or more ago. And this averment would have
a decided advantage over Professor Beale's, since, in meeting a friend, we
might be certain that four-fifths of him at least was alive, while the
other one-fifth was industriously at work to keep him alive, instead of a
stalking corpse, as he would otherwise be, upon the street. Besides, it
would obviate the necessity, on the part of the vitalists, of giving
themselves four-fifths away to the materialists, as Professor Beale
virtually does in the argument.

The too rude touch of a child's hand will rob the canary bird of its
life--stifle its musical throat, hush its most ecstatic note, still its
exquisite song, and render forever mute and silent its voice. But where
are Professor Beale's bioplasts which, but a moment before, were not only
weaving the nerves, tissues, muscles, bones, and even the wonderful
plumage of this canary bird, but plying the invisible threads of
song--throwing off its chirps, carols, trills, quavers, airs, overtures
and brilliant _roulades_, as if the little vocalist had caught its
inspiration from the very skies? Where, we repeat, are these bioplasts
now? They are all quietly and industriously at work as before. The
occupant of the song-mansion is gone, but not one of these bioplasts has
dropped a clew, thrown down a shuttle, abandoned a loom, or fled in dismay
to the core of its cell. They still pulsate, throb, throw off tissue. No
chemical change has yet intervened to break down their cell-walls, or
interfere with the occupations assigned them. The machinery that ran their
looms is stopped--that is all. The invisible shuttles have ceased to
ply--the meshes of their tangled webs are broken--the more delicate
threads of song are snapped in sunder, but the bioplastic spinners and
weavers are all there. Not one of them has been displaced from its seat,
nor in any way disturbed or molested in its work. If they are conscious of
any danger, it is that the occupant of this little song-mansion has
suddenly stepped out--is no longer present to direct their tasks. The icy
hand of decay and death will soon be upon them--these poor bioplastic
weavers of tissue--but the vocal spark, the "bright gem instinct with
music," is beyond the reach of these dusky messengers. _Where_ it is, not
man, but the Giver of all life knows. We only know, when our faith is
uplifted by inspiration, that--

  "The soul of music never dies,
     Nor slumbers in its shell;
  'Tis sphere-descended from the skies,
     And thence returns to dwell."




Chapter IX.

Force-Correlation, Differentiation and Other Life Theories.



Among the more startling, if not decidedly brilliant, vital theories which
have been advanced within the last few years, is that which makes life an
"undiscovered correlative of force." Those who have the reputation of
being the profoundest thinkers and delvers in the newly-discovered realm
of Force-correlation in Europe, and who have more or less modestly
contributed to that reputation themselves, have evidently thought to
eclipse, if not to entirely throw into the shade, the great exploit of
Leverrier, in pointing out the exact place in their empirical heavens
where the superior optics of some future observer shall behold, in all its
glory, this "undiscovered correlative of force," which they have indicated
as lying within the higher possibilities and potentialities of matter.
Precisely what they mean by this undiscovered correlate, is what puzzles
us quite as much to determine as it does the materialists to explain. Were
they to define life as an "undiscovered force" simply, their definition
would manifestly lack in brilliancy what it would conclusively make up in
precision and accuracy of definitional statement. But such a poor
metaphrastic and half-circular exposition of vital force would never
answer the necessities of that profounder profundity required for the
success of modern scientific treatises. Hence the interpolation of this
"correlative" of theirs. Let us ascertain, if we can, what it means, since
they are so chary of informing us themselves.

A "correlate" of a thing--any thing--simply implies the reciprocal
relation it bears to some other thing. As a cognate term it expresses
nothing, can express nothing, but reciprocity of relationship, such as
father to son, brother to sister, uncle to aunt, nephews to nieces, etc.
As applied to vital force, it means nothing more nor less than that this
particular force stands in some sort of relationship to the other forces
of nature, or, as they would have us believe, the _material_ forces of
nature. And the simple strength or potentiality of this relationship is
what makes all the difference between the severally related forces of the
universe, since it would be as impossible to differentiate a fixed
relationship as to change the nature of vital units. But whether vital
force, as a distinct correlate, is paternal or filial, brotherly or
sisterly, avuncular or amital in its relationship, is not stated. The
scientific formula, however, may be stated thus: As A (chemical force) is
to B (molecular force) so is C (a third known force) to _x_ (the vital or
unknown force); so that, by multiplying the antecedents and consequents
together, and eliminating the value of _x_, we may mathematically obtain
the value of vital force.

But to eliminate the value of _x_ is what troubles them. Herbert Spencer
has tried his hand at it, but failed to express life under any higher
correlation than "molecular force;" nor can he definitely inform us
whether either force is third or fourth cousin to the other. But he
manifestly regards their relationship as constituting either a very
attractive or highly repulsive force. In his vexation at not finding the
value of _x_, he is driven from mathematical to mechanical biology, and
gives us this new definitional value of life--that singularly
contumacious quantity which so persistently refuses to be eliminated in
scientific equations: "Life is molecular machinery worked by molecular
force." But as Professor Beale has utterly demoralized, if not
demolished, this machinery, in his recent treatise on "The Mystery of
Life," we will spare it any further blows, and proceed to the
consideration of "molecular force."

Before we proceed however, to the consideration of this force, let us
definitely understand the meaning of the terms we shall be called upon
to use. We can have no difficulty in understanding the meaning of
"molecular attraction," or that force acting immediately on the
integrant molecules or particles of a body, as distinguished from the
attraction of gravitation which acts at unlimited distances. But when it
comes to ascribing other and higher manifestations of power to
molecules, such as have not been scientifically shown to exist, we must
feel our way with caution, and demand of these pretentious molecules, or
rather of their materialistic backers, a reason for the faith, or rather
force, that is in them.

It is agreed by all physicists, as well as chemists, that a "molecule" is
the smallest conceivable quantity of a simple or compound substance, as an
"atom" is the smallest conceivable quantity of an element which enters
into combination with other elements to form material substance. For
instance, the smallest conceivable quantity of water is a molecule, while
the smallest conceivable quantity of either of the two elements of which
water is composed, is an atom. In every molecule of water, therefore,
there are three elementary atoms, two of hydrogen and one of oxygen. And
since a molecule, as a general rule, contains two or more atoms, and may
contain many of them, why not predicate dynamic force of the atoms, which
lie one step nearer the elementary forces of nature? For the mightiest
forces of nature lie in these elements, when forced into unnatural
alliances, or chained up in durance vile. It is in the elements of matter,
and not in its molecules, that this tremendous dynamic force resides. Man,
knowing this, harnesses them into his service, first by forcing them into
unnatural alliances, as in the case of charcoal, sulphur and saltpetre,
and then successfully pitting them in conflict against the rocks and the
general inertia of matter. To charge all the destructive work they do on
the innocent and harmless molecules, which are two steps removed from the
actual force expended, is drawing conclusions from the sheerest
hypothetical data. It is the office of "molecular force," if there is any
meaning to the term beyond what is expressed by "molecular attraction," to
conserve matter--bind rocks together, not rend them in sunder.

If the dynamic forces of nature lie pent up in the molecules, then man
must array molecular force against molecular force in order to rend rocks
and tear mountains in sunder. This theory of molecular force, as extended
to vital physics in the force-doctrine of life, is irreconcilably at war
with the principal phenomena of life, and should be classed with the other
undiscovered correlates of force, which Professor Beale speaks of as "the
fictions of a mechanical imagination." The truth is that these much abused
and much slandered molecules are the most innocent and harmless things in
nature. They never become destructive unless some other force than that
inhering in themselves drags them into its service and hurls them along a
devastating path. Of themselves, they are the very quintessence of
quiessence in the universe, and, when formed in nature's laboratory, at
once seek quiet and loving companionship with kindred molecules, and
retain it forever afterwards. The idea that they should break away from
their loving molecular embrace, and, by any process of differentiation or
constructive agency of their own, seek an alliance with some living
dog-germ in order to be built up into living dog-tissue, presents about as
perverse and wayward an impulse on the part of matter as can well be
imagined by the scientific mind. That the dog-germ should seek to get hold
of, and differentiate them, we can well understand. The Circean witchery
and enticement is all on the part of the dog-germ, not in the inclination
of the molecules.

If there is any truth in this molecular-force-theory of life, it is about
time for us to discard some of the old categories respecting matter,
motion, and life, and substitute new ones in their place. In the
multiplicity of new scientific terms constantly springing up for
recognition in these days, there ought to be no difficulty in expressing
the true categories, and assigning to them their proper definitional
value. To include physical force, chemical force, molecular force, and
vital force all under one and the same category, and then interpret their
several modes of action on any theory of force-correlation, is not
emancipating language from the gross thraldom into which their "molecular
machinery" has driven it. Besides, there is moral force, mental force, the
force of will, the force of reason, the force of honesty, the force of
fraud, etc., and any number of other forces, all possessing more or less
impetus or momentum, and capable of binding or coercing persons and
things, in all their diversified relations, correlations, incidences,
coincidences, affinities, antagonisms, and so on through an interminable
chapter of interchangeable predications. All these different expressions
of force are to be tethered together--definitionally bound hand and
foot--under the one explanatory head of "force-correlation." We protest
against the labor of thus unifying all the natural forces of the universe,
even if it were practicable under scientific methods.

But Professor Tyndall denies that "molecular groupings" and "molecular
motions" explain anything--account for anything--in the way of explicating
life-manifestations, or determining what life is.[31] And it would be
difficult to cite a stronger and more determined materialist as authority
on the point we are considering. He says: "If love were known to be
associated with a right-handed spiral motion of the molecules of the
brain, and hate with the left-handed, we should remain as ignorant as
before, as to the cause of motion." But there is no proof that the
molecules of the brain manifest any other motions than those necessary for
keeping up the normal condition of health and vital activity in the brain
itself. No one can be certain that he has seen these molecules in a state
of mental activity; for where portions of the human brain have been
exposed to microscopic examination, even in perfect states of
consciousness on the part of those whose brains have been laid bare, there
can be no certainty that the molecular action, if any, is referable to one
set of movements more than another. And even in the case of animalcules,
as seen in the object glass of the microscope, there is no absolute
certainty that their quick, darting or jerking movements are due to any
life-manifestation, as heretofore assumed. Some quite as well defined
forms are entirely motionless, and if all were so, it would be idle to
predicate vitality of them.[32] These infinitessimal and constantly
varying forms, many of them not the one hundred-thousandth part of an inch
in length, to say nothing of their other dimensions, may owe their
oscillations, wave movements, darting and other manifestations, and even
their molecular arrangements and rearrangements, to other causes than
those strictly "vital." And it should be borne in mind that their actual
movements are just as much exaggerated under the microscope as their real
dimensions. But as they make their appearance in organic infusions only,
they are presumably vital organisms rather than fomentative or mere
filamentous yeast-manifestations.

Professor Huxley, while conceding that molecular changes may take place
under environing life-conditions, or in protoplasmic matter, denies that
the "primordial cells" possesses in any degree the characteristics of a
"machine," nor can they undergo any differentiating process by which the
character of their manifestations can be changed. And he even denies to
them the poor right to originate or in any way modify their own plasma. He
says: "They are no more the producers of vital phenomena, than the shells
scattered in orderly line along the sea-beach are the instruments by which
the gravitative force of the moon acts upon the ocean. Like these, the
cells mark only where the vital tides have been, and how they have acted."
This is undoubtedly true of all cells in which the vital or functional
office has ceased, as in the case of Professor Beale's "formed matter."
The cells are the result of the vital principle that lies behind them, and
simply indicate where life exists, or has manifestly ceased to exist.
Where the vital currents have ceased to flow, the wreck of primordial
cells is quite as wide and disastrous as where millions of sea-shells have
been strewn along a desolated and storm-swept sea-beach. They all come,
both the cells and shells, from the preëxisting vital units, or
determinate germs, that fall into their own incidences of movement,
without any concurrence of physical conditions beyond their own inherent
tendency to development. For "conditions" do not determine life; they only
favor its manifestation.

But some of the materialists claim that what we call "vital units," or
invisible, indestructible germs,[33] are at best only "physical
relations;" that they have nothing more than a hypothetical existence,
without any independent recognizable quality justifying our conclusions
respecting them. But may not this identical language be retortively
suggested in the case of their "correlates of force?" What more than a
hypothetical existence have they? Certainly their enthusiasm to get rid of
all vital conditions or manifestations, is quite as marked a feature in
their speculations respecting life as any enthusiasm we have shown in the
verification of vital phenomena, on the established law of cause and
effect. They insist upon this law in the case of statical aggregates, and
even assign absolute identity of attributes; but when it comes to
dynamical aggregates, they fall back on partial identity only, and deny
the presence of the law altogether.

Nor are they any more felicitous in their treatment of other points in
controversy. In speaking of his "plastide particles," Professor Bastian,
the most defiant challenger of vitalistic propositions now living, says:
"Certain of these particles, through default of _necessary conditions,_
never actually develop into higher modes of being." Here he makes the
absence of "necessary conditions" the cause of non-development, while he
stoutly denies that the presence of such "conditions" give rise to the
development of a pre-existing vital unit. And yet, strange to say, he
speaks of the elemental origin of "living matter" as "having probably
taken place on the surface of our globe since the far-remote period when
such matter was first engendered." But how his "sum-total of external
conditions," acting upon _dead_ matter, can "engender" _living_ matter, is
one of those "related heterogenetic phenomena" which he does not
condescend to explain. It is by this sort of scientific verbiage that he
gets rid of the pre-existing vital principle, or germinal principle of
life, which the biblical genesis declares to be in the earth itself.

To be entirely consistent with himself, he should deny the existence of
this germinal principle in the seeds of plants themselves, and insist upon
the sum-total of external conditions as the cause of all
life-manifestations, in the vegetal as in the animal world. There can be
no inherent tendency, he should insist, in the seed itself towards
structural development, but only external conditions acting upon "dead
matter," in heterogentic directions. The shooting down of the radicle or
undeveloped root, and the springing up of the plumule or undeveloped
stalk, is accordingly due to no vital principle in the seed, but to the
complexity or entanglement of the molecules wrapped up in their
integumentary environment. And this, or some similar fortuitous
entanglement of molecules, should account for all life-manifestations, as
well as all life-tendencies, in nature. These molecular entanglements
should, therefore, be infinite in number, as well as in fortuitous
complexity, to account for all the myriad forms of life "engendered from
dead matter" in the material universe.

For if there is any one thing that the materialists insist upon more
resolutely than another, it is the fortuitousness of nature--the
happening by chance of whatever she does. Formerly it used to be the
"fortuitous concourse of atoms;" now it is the "fortuitous aggregate of
molecules." By what accidental or fortuitous happening the atoms have
dropped out of their scientific categories, and the molecules have been
advanced to their commanding place in _absolute accidentalness_, is one
of those unassignable causes in which they apparently so much delight. We
can only account for it on the supposition that they have all become
worshippers of that blind and accidental Greek goddess, who bore the horn
of Amalthea and plentifully endowed her followers with a wealth of
language and other much-coveted gifts, but not with the most desirable
knack at disposing of them.

The true cause of vital phenomena manifestly depends on these two
conditions--the presence of the specific vital unit, and the necessary
environing plasma, or nutrient matter, for its primary development.
Without the presence of both of these conditions, or conditioning
incidences, there can be no life-manifestation anywhere. And we do not see
that anything is gained, even in the matter of scientific nomenclature, by
merely substituting "molecular force" for "vital force," in the
explication of vital phenomena. Even granting that molecular changes do
take place during the development of the vital units in their necessary
plasmic environment; it by no means follows that these changes are not
dependent on the vital principle _as it acts_, rather than on the
molecules _as they act_,[34] The higher force should always subordinate
the lower in all metamorphic, as well as other processes, of nature. It is
the vital principle that differentiates matter--the aggregate of
molecules--not matter differentiating the vital principle. No "molécules
organiques" can ever differentiate an ape-unit into a man-unit, any more
than Professor Tyndall can fetch a Plato out of mere sky-mist. Once an
ape-unit, always an ape-unit; once a man-unit, eternally a man-unit.

Let the vitalists stick to this proposition--this eternally fixed _unit_
as "_une idée dans l'entendement de Dieu," _ (to use a better French
expression than English)--and they can fight the materialists off their
own ground anywhere. The one sublime verity of the universe is that
"life exists," and that it has existed from all eternity _as possible_
in the Divine mind, and in the Divine mind alone. If materialistic
science is disposed to butt its head against this impregnable
proposition, it can do so. The proposition will stand, whatever may
happen to the inconsiderate head.

For science may press her devotees into as many different pursuits as
there are starting-points to an azimuth circle, and command them to search
and find out the ultimate causes of things in the universe, but the
forever narrowing circle in one direction, and the forever widening one in
the other, would utterly baffle all their attempted research. Whether they
descended into the microscopic world, with its myriad-thronged conditions
of life, or passed upward and outward, in _Sirius-_distances, to the
irresolvable nebulæ, where other and perhaps brighter stars might burst
upon their view--gleaming coldly and silently down the still enormous
fissures and chasms in the heavens--the result would be the same. Wider
and wider fields of observation might open upon their view, as the stellar
swarms thickened and the power of human vision failed, but the
uranological expedition would return no wiser than when it started, and
Science would still be confronted with the same illimitability of space,
the same infinitude of matter, and the same incomprehensibility of the
world-arranging intelligence that lies beyond. For He who hath garnished
the heavens by his spirit--who divideth the sea with his power, and
hangeth the earth upon nothing--"_holdeth back the face of his throne and
spreadeth his cloud upon it_."

What if, in one direction, we should find those inconceivably small
specks, or mere bioplastic points, which we call "living matter," or, in
the other direction, those inconceivably vast world-forming masses which
we call "dead matter," who shall say that "the secret places of the Most
High" are not hidden from us, or that when the spirit of God first moved
through these vast fissures and chasms in the heavens upon the face of all
matter, there was not imparted to it that "animating principle of life" of
which the biblical genesis speaks, and which we everywhere see manifesting
itself in nature? Surely this inquiry is not one to be superciliously set
aside by the materialists, after the failure of their uranological
expedition, on the ground that it does not furnish food enough for
scientific contemplation, without such physiological fancies as their
specialists have been giving us in the shape of force-correlations and
molecular theories of life.

But speaking of the higher forces as subordinating the lower, suggests
that there should be something more definitely explained regarding the
hypothesis of "differentiation," on which Mr. Herbert Spencer hangs so
much of his mathematical faith in the true explication of vital
phenomena. The term "differentiation" is not so formidable as it might
seem to the general reader at first sight. As applied to physiological
problems it should have the same determinate value, in expressing
functional differences, as in the higher operations of mathematics.
Nothing can, of course, differentiate itself, nor can any two things
differentiate each other, even when functionally allied. The actual
coëfficient sought is the difference effected, in functional value, in
one of two independent variables. For all formulæ in differentiation are
constructed on the hypothesis that only one of two variables suffers
change. The differential coëfficient has yet to be determined which shall
express the developmental changes in two variables at once. When,
therefore, we attempt to extend the formulæ of differentiation to plant
and animal life, we are confronted by a very formidable difficulty at the
outset--the impossibility of determining an invariable coëfficient for
any two variables. Besides, all attempts at differentiating an ape-unit
into anything else than an ape-unit would be as impossible as to multiply
or divide cabbages by turnips, or sparrows by sparrowhawks. Such
divisions would give us no quotients, any more than their
differentiations would give us a coëfficient. Physiological
differentiation will, therefore, never help us out of fixed species or
nearly allied types. We can bridge no specific differences by it. In the
differentiation of the horse and the ass for instance, the superior blood
will predominate in the preservation of types, and even the mule will
kick against further differentiation. Nature would so utterly abhor the
practice as resolutely to slam the door in Mr. Spencer's face, if the
obstinacy of the mule did not kick it off its hinges.

And nature would be quite as intractable in the case of
"force-correlation," another of Mr. Spencer's redoubtable phrases. This
term is quite recent in its application to animate objects, nor has it
been long applied to inanimate. It is claimed to be a recently discovered
force, and is one that the materialists have seized upon as the Herculean
club with which to smite all vital theories to the earth. Its meaning, so
far as it has any, is not difficult to get at. The simplest way to explain
it, however, is the best. The reader is to understand that when he rubs
two flat sticks together, the heat thereby engendered is not the result of
friction, as all the world has heretofore supposed, but that the amount of
force expended in rubbing the right-hand stick against the left-hand
stick, is, by some law of versability, not over-well defined, transferred
to the two sticks, and gets so entangled between their surfaces that it
can only reappear in another and altogether different kind of force. When
it leaves the hands and passes into the two sticks, it is, as the
materialists assert, vital force. But as no force can be annihilated, the
conclusive assumption is that it still exists somewhere. All of it, in the
first place, went into the two flat sticks, and, when there, _ceased to be
vital force._ Some of it disappeared, of course, in overcoming the inertia
of the sticks, but the bulk of it became entangled with the superficial
molecules of the two sticks, and reappeared as _heat_--another name for
molecular force.

This is what is meant by the "differentiation" of vital force into
molecular force, and _vice versa_. But by what process of rubbing, under
this law of versability, molecular force can be reversed, or
differentiated back into vital force, Mr. Spencer has not condescended to
inform us. The simple truth is, and the materialists will be forced to
admit it in the end, that there is no verification of this theory beyond
that of mere force-equivalence. For instance, it has been experimentally
determined that a certain amount of fuel expended in heat is equivalent to
a certain amount of mechanical force, not mechanical _work_, as M. Carnot
puts it. For force is not expended in work until it is actually generated,
and the amount generated, not that expended in work, is the real
equivalence of the heat produced from fuel.

Another problem is presented when it comes to determining the amount of
generated force necessary to run a piece of machinery which shall
accomplish a given amount of mechanical work.

A far better phrase to express this equivalence of force has been
suggested and used by several writers in what is called the "Transmutation
of Force." For there is no correlation, or reciprocal relation, between
heat as originally produced by the consumption of fuel and the force as
engendered in steam before it is transmuted into work. Nor is there any
real equivalence as between the two forces after its transmutation. A very
large per centage of heat is lost in its transmutation from a latent form
in fuel to an active or available form in steam, and a still greater loss
in its transmission into work by machinery. Theoretically, there may be
such an equivalence as that named, but practically it is impossible to
realize it. And a theory that is impossible of realization is of no
practical utility in itself, and of little value as the basis of further
theory. If, then, the theory of force equivalence is a failure in
practical application, it furnishes a very poor basis on which to
predicate force-correlation, or the doctrine of reciprocal forces. It is
estimated, for instance, that a pound weight falling seven hundred and
seventy-two feet, will, in striking the earth, impart to it a degree of
heat equivalent to raising one pound of water 1° F. But the heat thus
imparted can never be so utilized as to raise a pound weight seven hundred
and seventy-two feet into the air.

This shows that there is no actual reciprocity of relationship between the
force as originally engendered and finally expended in work. Nor can it be
shown that the original force is transmuted or changed into another and
different kind of force by the operation. The force generated and the
force expended are essentially one and the same, as much so as that
transmitted from the power to the weight by means of a rope and pulley.
And the quality of the force is not changed, whether the weight be lifted
by machinery or the human hand. Force, in its mechanical sense, is that
power which produces motion, or an alteration in the direction of motion,
and is incapable of being specialized, except in a highly figurative
sense, into a thousand and one correlates of motion. But these
miscellaneous and figurative forces are not what we are considering. The
doctrine of force-correlation takes no such wide and comprehensive sweep.
It embraces neither the force of wit, nor the force of folly; but
mechanical force and its equivalents. The force exercised by the human
hand in lifting a weight either with or without rope and pulley is, in
every definitional sense of the word, mechanical force. For the arm and
hand are only the implements, or mechanical contrivances of nature, by
which the will-power transmutes itself into work, or, more properly
speaking, transmits itself from the point of force-generation to that of
force-expenditure. And this is precisely the office performed by all
mechanical contrivances for the transmission--not transmutation--of force.
And the most perfect machine is that which transmits the engendered force,
with the least possible waste or abandonment, to its point of ultimate
expenditure in work.

All these hypothetical correlates of force, therefore, predicated upon the
doctrine of force-transmutation, have no foundation in fact, since the
force transmitted from the point of generation to the point of expenditure
undergoes no change but that of direction, in its passage along rope,
wire, belt, pulley, shafting, etc. A man whose limbs have been paralyzed,
may still will to remove mountains. The will-power is the same, but the
mechanical contrivances for its transmission are wanting. Of the actual
point or centre of this force-generation, in the case of the will-power,
we know nothing; but the moment the power is started on its way towards
the point of force-expenditure, whether it traverses the nerves and
tissues of the brain, or the right arm or the left, or a crowbar or
pickaxe, it is in no sense distinguishable from the force that traverses a
rope and pulley. Nor is there any evidence that it undergoes molecular
changes, or becomes modified or conditioned by any nearly or remotely
related force, as it darts along the nerves, runs through the contracted
tissues, electrifies the crowbar, or flashes into work from the point of a
pickaxe. Whatever produces, or tends to produce, motion, or an alteration
in its direction, is mechanical force, no matter from what force-centre it
may start. When we can definitely determine the centre of vital force, as
exercised in building up vital structure, _not in wielding pickaxes_, it
is to be hoped we shall be able to distinguish, by the proper correlates,
vital force from that which is mechanical. But the task is manifestly a
hopeless one with the materialists.

Professor Beale positively denies that there are any such physical
force-relations as those claimed by the materialists, and asserts that
vital force bears no relation, or correlation, to either chemical or
physical force; that the one is a distinct and separate factor from the
other, and cannot be interpreted in the same force-formulæ. He says: "The
idea of motion, or heat, or light, or electricity _forming_ or _building_
up, or _constructing_ any texture capable of fulfilling a definite
purpose, seems absurd, and opposed to all that is known, and yet is the
notion continually forced upon us, that vitality, which does construct, is
but a correlate of ordinary energy or motion."

But after devoting so much time to "force-correlation," and
"force-differentiation," the advocates of "molecular-machinery" may feel
themselves neglected if we dismiss their favorite hobby without further
notice. The precise parentage of this term is disputed, but it has any
number of _putative_ fathers. We have spoken of the size of the molecules
themselves, and the numbers of them that might be huddled together on the
point of a cambric needle without jostling. Let us now consider the size
of a molecular machine. For each molecule runs its own machine, and is
provident enough to see that they do not jostle. In fact, it is a very
nice question in physics, whether the machines do not run the molecules,
instead of the prevailing opposite opinion that the molecules run the
machines. Unfortunately, the question is one that can never be determined.
The requisite scientific data will forever be wanting.

But Professor James C. Maxwell, now, or quite recently, filling the chair
of experimental physics in the University of Cambridge, England, has
furnished us with _approximate_ calculations. On the strength of his
approximations we will proceed to consider the dimensions of these
wonderful little machines. And first, it may be axiomatically laid down
that these molecular machines, which either run the molecules or are run
by them, can never exceed the size of their respective molecules.
Conceding, then, that each one of these machines exactly fits into its own
molecule, so as to present identically the same dimensions--as well as
their largest possible dimensions--it would require two millions of them,
placed in a row, to make one millimetre, or the one three hundred and
ninety-four thousandths of an inch in length, or seven hundred and
eighty-eight billions of them to make one inch! Who will ever be staggered
at _Sirius_-distances, after this? And who will deny that an infinite
world lies below the point of our microscopic vision, if not an Infinite
kingdom and throne beyond our telescopic glance?

But, following the same high authority in experimental physics, let us
consider the aggregate weight of these molecular machines. We will not
marshal their aggregate numbers in a row, for an array of forty billions
of them would make too insignificant a figure for inspection; but simply
give their actual weight as computed under the French or metric system.
Take, then, a million million million million of these machines, throwing
in molecules and all, and they will weigh, if there is no indiscreet
kicking of the beam, just a fraction between four and five grammes, or--to
differentiate the weights--a small fraction over one-tenth of an ounce!

But why not get down to the atoms, of which the molecules are only the
theoretical congeries, and marshal the "atomic forces" into line? These
embryonic atoms are much the braver warriors, and, when summoned to do
battle, spring, lithe and light-armed, against the elemental foe. They are
no cowardly molecules, these atoms, but make war against Titans, as well
as Titanic thrones and powers. The elements recognize them as their body
guardsmen, their corps of invincible lancers, their bravest and best
soldiers in fight. And they are wholly indifferent as to the legions of
molecules arrayed against them, and would as soon hurl a mountain of them
into the sea as to sport with a zephyr or caper with the east wind. Why
not summon these countless myriads of bright and invincible spearmen, to
batter down the walls of this Cretan labyrinth of Life? An army of these
would be worth all the molecules that Professor Maxwell could array in
line, in a thousand years. No life-problem need remain unsolved with their
bright spears to drive the tenebrious mists before them. Even Professor
Tyndall's "fog-banks of primordial haze" would be ignominiously scattered
in flight before these atomic legions. Let our materialistic friends
summon them, then, to their aid. The field of controversy will never be
won by their molecular "Hessians." The ineffably bright lancers that stand
guard over the elemental hosts are the light brigade with which to rout
the vitalistic enemy. Advance them then to the front, and, beneath the
shadowy wing of pestilence or some other appalling ensign of destruction,
the abashed vital squadrons will flee in dismay.

But let us pass from scientific speculations to alleged scientific facts.
In a paper read by Dr. Hughes Bennett before the Royal Society of
Edinburgh, in 1861, its author says: "The first step, in the process of
organic formation, is the production of an organic fluid; the second, the
precipitation of organic molecules, from which, according to the molecular
law of growth, all other textures are derived either directly or
indirectly." Here again the molecules, and not the elementary atoms, are
advanced to the front, and not a little anxiety is shown, in a
definitional way, to identify vital processes of growth with crystalline
processes of formation. But Dr. Bennett entirely mistakes, as well as
misstates, the process of vital development, if he does not overlook the
law governing the formation of crystals. There can be no symmetrically
arranged solids in an inorganic fluid without the presence of some law, or
principle, definitely determining, not the "precipitation," but the
"formation," of crystals. The inorganic particles are not precipitated or
thrown downward, any more than they are sublevated or thrown upward. The
process is one of formation, not precipitation. Every crystallographer,
not hampered by materialistic views and anti-vital theories, admits the
presence of a fixed and determinate law governing each crystalline system,
whatever may be the homologous parts or the unequal axes it represents.

And so of the equally undeviating law of vital growth. Life comes from no
mere "precipitation of organic molecules," as Dr. Bennett would have us
believe. If so, what is it that precipitates the molecules? They can
hardly be said to precipitate themselves. To precipitate, in a chemical
sense, is to be thrown down, or caused to be thrown down, as a substance
from its solution. What, then, causes the molecules to be thus
precipitously thrown down from a fluid to a solid, or a semi-solid, state?
It cannot be from any blind or inconsiderate haste on the part of the
molecules themselves. There must be some independent principle, or law of
nature--one presupposing an intelligent law-giver--to effect the
"precipitating process," if any such really exists.

But it does not exist. The first step is one of development and
growth--the manifestation of functional activity--the building up of
organic or cellular tissue. The exact process, in the case of seed-bearing
plants and trees, is well known. All those familiar with the
characteristic differences of seeds, their chemical constituents, their
tegumentary coverings, rudimentary parts, etc., thoroughly understand the
process in its outward manifestation. There is no precipitation of
molecules as in an organic fluid, unless the albumen lying between the
embryo and testa of the seeds, and constituting the nutriment on which the
plant feeds during its primary stages of growth, can be called a fluid. It
throws none of its characteristic ingredients downward any more than
upward. Indeed the greater tendency of its molecules is upward rather than
downward, in the "molecular processes" (vital ones) by which the embryonic
cell is started upon its career of plant-life. The celebrated Dr. Liebig
says of this albuminous environment: "It is the foundation, the
starting-point, of the whole series of peculiar tissues which constitute
those organs which are the seat of all vital actions." In the case of
animal life, this albumen abounds in the serum of the blood, enters
largely into the chyle and lymph, goes to build up the tissues and
muscles, and is the chief ingredient of the nerves, glands, and even the
brain itself. And in all these developmental stages, its tendency is to
coagulate rather than precipitate. In its coagulated condition, it dries
to a hard, partially translucent and friable state, and is more or less
insoluble in water, and entirely so at a temperature from 140° to 160° F.

When the seed is planted or placed in water, it first commences to swell
from the absorption of the water or moisture of the ground by the pores of
its external covering, the favorable temperature being from 60° to 80° F.
It gradually expands until its outer membranes burst, and its initial
rootlets clasp their hold upon the earth. From this point its several
stages of development are well known to the ordinary observer. Here the
first step is absorption and expansion, not precipitation. There is also a
change in chemical conditions, the water at least being decomposed. For it
would seem to be a law of vegetal growth that reproduction should begin in
decomposition and decay. The Apostle's description of the "death of the
grain," as symbolizing the death of man, in his first Epistle to the
Corinthians, points conclusively in this direction. It is in the
decomposition and decay of the grain that the implanted germ is quickened
into life--ascends into the bright light, the warm sunshine, the
refreshing presence of showers and dews. In this way it fulfils its
providential purpose of yielding to the sower the more munificent life
which he is forever seeking to attain.

Its germination is the springing up of the inner living principle of the
grain, not its outer envelope or dead husk. This disappears in decay,
except the small nutrient portion within which the germinal principle of
life would seem to reside, and which undergoes a thorough chemical change
in the process of passing from death unto life, or being assimilated and
taken up into the new living structure. The Apostle's comparison
distinctly marks these several changes as the one process of passing from
death unto life. He saw in this wonderful provision of nature, the still
more wonderful prevision of God. To his mind it was over the debris of the
dead past that the living present is constantly marching towards a higher
and more perfect life--the ultimate fruition and joy of an eternal home in
the skies! And he saw that the two grand instrumentalities and
co-accessory agencies to this end, were Life and Death, both equally
constant and active, like all the other instrumentalities and governing
agencies of the universe. Life is forever unlocking the portals of the
present to youth and vigor; Death is forever closing them to age and
decrepitude. This divine prevision thus becomes the wisest and most
beneficent provision. Without life there would be no such thing as death,
and without death no such thing as this grand succession and march of
life--this passing from out the Shadow into the Day.




Chapter X.

Darwinism Considered from a Vitalistic Stand-Point.



Granting that the assumption of Darwinism rests, as claimed, on the fixed
and inflexible adaptation of means to ends, in the diversified yet
measurably specialized processes of nature, there is no logical deduction
to be drawn therefrom but that which traces the representatives of all the
great types of the animal kingdom to one single source, and that not the
Sovereign Intelligence of the Universe, but a mere "ovule in protoplasm,"
or what may be defined, in its unaggregated form, as an inconceivably
small whirligig, having motion on a central axis, but whether an
independent motion of its own, or one derived from an Infinite
Intelligence, the Darwinian systematizers are not bold enough to aver.
They have too many _a priori_ scruples either to assert the one
proposition or to deny the other. What set this little whirligig in motion
is a mystery that lies beyond the purview of science, so called, and into
the depths of this infinitessimal and most mysterious little chamber they
refuse to go.

They search not for the evidence of an Infinite Intelligence in the
outermost circle of the heavens where the highest is to be found, and
where a bound is set that we may not pass, but shutting their eyes to all
the grander evidences of such an Intelligence, they dive down into the
infinitessimal realm of nature and assume to dig out the sublimer secrets
of the universe there. And this is their grand discovery: That this
infinitessimal whirligig of theirs has not only whirled man into
existence, but the entire circle of the heavens, with the innumerable host
of stars that march therein, and all the boundless systems of worlds that
roll in space. With this subordination of the Infinite to the
infinitessimal, of intelligence to insensate matter, of divine energy, so
to speak, to blind molecular force, they are satisfied; and, like the mole
in the fable, conceive their little molecule to be the only possible
creator of a stupendous universe.

Scrutinize my propositions closely, and see if I am guilty of misstating
theirs. Their new theory is only a slight modification of an old one, or
the old adage, _omne vivum ex ovo_--all life is from an egg. For they
assert that every living thing primordially proceeds from an ovule in
protoplasm, the essential part of the protoplasmic egg, so to speak, being
this little _ovum_ or cellule, from which have issued all possible
organisms in both the vegetable and animal kingdoms. Nor is this theory
essentially confined to organic matter. A scientific coördination of its
several known parts, or alleged functions, extends the operations of this
infinitessimal whirligig to the plastic or uniformly diffused state of all
matter, from which has been evolved, in an infinite duration of past time,
not only life in its highest manifestations, but a universe so
stupendously grand that no amount of human intelligence can grasp the
first conception of it.

Mr. Emerson--our Ralph Waldo--virtually accepts this theory of
development, substituting, however, a stomach for an ovule, and the
reverse of the Darwinian proposition, in what he is pleased to call "the
incessant opposition of nature to everything hurtful." It is not the
"selection of the fittest" but the "rejection of the unfit," by which "a
beneficent necessity (I use his language) is always bringing things
right." "It is in the stomach of plants," he says, "that development
begins, and ends in the circles of the universe." "'Tis a long way," he
admits, "from the gorilla to the gentleman--from the gorilla to Plato,
Newton, Shakespeare--to the sanctities of religion, the refinements of
legislation, the summits of science, art, poetry."

Few persons, I take it, will dispute this proposition. The road is a long
one and beset with all sorts of thorns and briars, such as Mr. Emerson's
philosophy will hardly eradicate from the wayside. Even the most refined
empiricism will find it difficult to stomach his stomachic theory of the
universe, which lands all atomic or corpuscular philosophy in a digestive
sac, such as Jack Falstaff bore about him with its measureless capacity
for potations and Eastcheap fare. It is a road too in which Mr. Emerson's
philosophy will get many sharp raps from an external world of phenomena,
in the futility of both his and the Darwinian hypothesis to explain away
the independent origination of certain species of plants and animals--new
varieties still springing into existence, under favorable conditions, in
obedience to the divine fiat, "Let the earth bring forth."

In laying the foundations of this new science, if science it shall be
called, we must insist that the course of nature is uniform, and that,
however extended our generalizations in any one of her lines of
uniformity, all intermediate, as well as ultimate propositions, must not
only be stated with the utmost scientific accuracy, but the logical
deductions therefrom must also be uniform, or lie in the path of
uniformity. The earliest and latest inductions must either coincide or
approximate the same end. No links must be broken, no chasms bridged, in
the scientific series. There must be a distinct and separate link
connecting each preceding and each succeeding one in the chain. The lowest
known mammal must be found in immediate relationship with his higher
congener or brother, not in any remote cousinship. There must be no
saltatory progress--no leaping over intermediate steps or degrees. The
heights of science are not to be scaled _per saltum_, except as degrees
may sometimes be conferred by our universities.[35]

There are some fish-like animals, say our Darwinian systematizers, like
the Lepidosirens and their congeners, with the characteristics of
amphibians; and hence they infer that by successive deviations and
improvements the lower order has risen into the higher. But out of what
page in the volume of nature, in the countless leaves we have turned back,
has the immediate congener dropped, that we are obliged to look for the
relationship in thirty-fourth cousins? We might as well say that some of
the _Infusoria_ possess the same or similar characteristics, and predicate
relationship between them and the amphibians; for giants sometimes spring
from dwarfs and dwarfs from giants. At all events, our diagnoses must be
freed from these intermediate breaks or failures in the chain of
continuity, or the doctrine of descent must tumble with the imaginary
foundations on which it is built. And bear in mind that the most
enthusiastic Darwinist is forced to admit that there are still rigid
partitions between the lower and higher organisms that have not been
pierced by the light of scientific truth, but they assume that future
discoveries and investigations will solve the difficulty. But science,
inflexible as she is, or ought to be, in her demands, admits of no
assumptions, much less sanctions such exceptions and deviations as we
constantly find in the Darwinian path of continuity. The eye of
imagination can supply nothing to her vision. She is eagle-eyed, and soars
into the bright empyrean--does not dive into quagmires and the slime of
creation after truth.

But let us see how Mr. Darwin bridges one of the very first chasms he
meets with in constructing his chain of generation. He goes back to the
first link, or to what he calls primordial generation. Here the leap is
from inorganic matter to the lowest form of organic life--from inanimate
to animate dust. The chasm is immense, as all will agree. But he bridges
it by falling back on his infinitessimal whirligig--his _primum
mobile_--or on the motions of elements as yet inaccessible, except to the
eye of imagination. For even Plato's monad, or ultimate atom, was not
matter itself, being indivisible, but rather a formal unit or primary
constituent of matter, which, like Mr. Darwin's whirligig in its
unaggregated form, admits of neither a maximum nor a minimum of
comprehension; but rests entirely on imaginary hypothesis. And we may here
add that a system which begins in imaginary hypotheses and ends in
them--as that of bridging the chasmal difference between a gorilla and a
Plato--can be dignified into a science only by a still greater stretch of
the imagination--that of bridging the difference between the Darwinian
zero and his ninety degrees of development in a Darwin himself!

Bear in mind, as we proceed, that the function of an argument in
philosophy, as in logic, is to prove that a certain relation exists
between two concepts or objects of thought, when that relation is not
self-evident. In the Darwinian chain we have, as the first link, organic
life springing from inorganic matter, without the slightest relation
existing between the two, except what may be universally predicated of
matter itself, whether animate or inanimate, organic or inorganic; and
there is no other affirmative premise, expressing their agreement as
extremes, that can possibly admit of an affirmative conclusion. The parts
are so separated in thought that no metaphysical or ideal distinction
exists to coordinate them in classification. We are simply forced back, in
our attempt at classification, upon the intuitions of consciousness, where
reason manifestly ceases to enforce its inductions.

And here the human mind intuitively springs an objection which is at once
aimed at the very citadel of Darwinism. On what rests the validity of
these intuitions except it be that "breath of life," which, as we have
before said, was breathed into man when he became a living soul? If we
follow the divine record, instead of these blind systematizers leading the
blind, we shall have no difficulty in establishing the validity of these
intuitions--the highest potential factors this side of Deity to be found
anywhere in the universe. For if our intuitions are not to be relied
upon--if their objects and perceptions are to be discarded as
unreliable--then there can be no agreement or disagreement between any two
ideas presented, objectively or subjectively, to the human mind. No
processes of mental analysis or ratiocination, like those pursued in the
elementary methods of Euclid, can present the basis of an intellectual
judgment, or lay the foundation of the slightest faith or belief in the
world. To deny the primary perception of truth by intuition is as fatal to
"Evolution" as to the sublimer teachings of the Bible Genesis.

But from the very nature of our being, as well as the primary _datum_ of
consciousness itself, we must rest the validity of these intuitions on
something, and that, something more than a finite intelligence; and since
science, with all her knowledge methodically digested and arranged,
furnishes no clue to the mystery, we are left to the higher sources of
inspiration to reach it. And this inspiration, however it may be derived,
necessarily becomes a part of our intuitions, since it addresses itself to
the strongest possible cravings of the human soul, and is accepted as its
inseparable companion and guest.

Shall we build our faith then on the Divine Word,--on the Word that was in
the beginning with God, and, when incarnate, _was_ God,--or on Mr.
Darwin's little whirligig that originally set everything in motion, and
has only to go on _ad infinitum_ to whirl us out a God, as it has already
whirled us out a Darwinian universe without one. For if this ovulistic
whirligig has bridged the chasmal difference between protoplasm and man,
since the transition from inorganic matter to organic life, the process
has only to be indefinitely extended to bridge the chasm between man and
Deity, or between finite and infinite intelligence. This gives us nature
evolving a God, instead of the doctrine of the old Theogonies, of a God
presiding from all eternity over nature; one "who laid the foundations of
the earth that it should not be removed forever; who stretchest out the
heavens like a curtain; who layeth the beams of his chambers in the
waters; who maketh his angels spirits; his ministers a flaming fire."

These evolutionists manifestly get the cart before the horse in their
category of cosmological events. It is not inert matter organizing itself
into life, nor any mode of physical or chemical action, nor any mere
manifestation of motion or of heat, nor any other conceivable correlation
of natural forces. None of these has enabled us to penetrate the
mysterious _inner-chamber_ of life itself. For reasons obviously connected
with our own welfare, He, from whom alone are "the issues of life," seems
to have ordained that we should fathom the depths of both physical and
chemical force, and beneficently wield and direct them to our own uses.
But this vital force; this something that stands apart from and is
essentially different from all other kinds of force, is of a nature that
baffles all our efforts to approach. The power to grasp it, or even to
penetrate in the slightest degree its mysteries, is delegated to none. All
attempts to lay bare this principle of vitality, or level the barriers
that separate it from physical or chemical action, have utterly failed. We
know no more of its essence now than was known a thousand years ago, and
know no less than will be known a thousand years hence. To become masters
of the mystery, we must enter the impenetrable veil within which the
Infinite Intelligence of the universe presides,--who, we are told,
"sendeth forth his spirit, and we are created, who taketh away our breath,
we die and return to our dust." [36]

We are just as much bewildered in respect to this vital principle in our
classifications of the myriads of little creatures careering over the
field of the microscope, as when we turn to the most marked formations of
genera and species in geological distribution. The great trouble with Mr.
Darwin's _vinculum_ is, that its weakest links are precisely where the
strongest should be found, and _vice versa_. With a candor rarely
displayed by a writer who is spinning a theory, he admits this. The
geological record is not what he would have it to be. Whole chapters are
gone where they are most needed, and nature's lithography seems constantly
at fault. Independent species are now and then springing up where
derivatives should be looked for, while derivatives are everywhere
disappearing in non-derivatives. Many of the middle Tertiary _molusca_,
and a large proportion of the later Tertiary period, are specifically
identical with the living species, of to-day. What has "natural selection"
been doing for this family in the last million years or more? Manifestly
nothing, and less than nothing, for some of the species have dropped out
altogether.

These facts, and hundreds of others like them, are constantly obtruding
themselves upon our attention to show, in harmony with the Bible Genesis,
the immutability of species--the absolute fixity of types--rather than
their variability, as claimed. If nature abhors anything more than a
_vacuum_, it is manifestly any marked transition from fixed types, and she
thunders her edicts against it in the non-fertility of all hybrids. The
doctrine of variation lacks the all-essential element of continuity, and
is oftener at war with the theory of the "selection of the fittest," than
it is with the selection of the "unfit." The leap from Lepidosirens to
Amphibians is no greater than the interval between any two species of
animals or plants yet discovered, either fossil or living. The intervals
are as numerous as the species themselves, and everywhere constitute great
and sudden leaps, or such transitional changes as "natural selection"
could not have effected independently of intervening forms--those that
nowhere exist in nature, and never have existed, if we are to credit
geologic and paleontologic records. There is everywhere similarity of
structure, but not identity; and the nearer we approach to identity of
structure the wider the divergence in similarity of characteristics. A
bird may be taught to talk and sing snatches of music. But no monkey has
ever been able to articulate human sounds, much less give them rhythmical
utterance.

Take the case of the wild pigeon, a subject that especially delights Mr.
Darwin. Most of the deviations are confined to the domesticated breeds,
and none of these rank in strength, hardiness, capability of flight, or
symmetry of structure, with the wild or typical bird. There are
well-defined deviations, but no sensible improvements, except to the eye
of the bird-fancier. The deviations are simply entailed weaknesses, or the
very reverse of what should appear from the "selection of the fittest."
The fact undeniably is, that these variations are almost wholly
abnormal--mere exaggerated characteristics, induced in the first instance,
perhaps, by high cultivation and close in-and-in breeding.

Turn these abnormal varieties loose, let them go back to the aboriginal
stock, and these characteristics will rapidly disappear; that is, they
will ultimately lose themselves or melt away in the original type. Mr.
Darwin admits that the tendency will be to reversion, but he insists,
manifestly without any positive proof therefor, that the greater tendency
is to new centres of attraction, and not necessarily the primitive one.
But this is mere assumption--sheer begging the question on his
part,--since all the oscillations are incontestibly about the original or
type centre.

The same may be said of the typical races of men, like the negro and wild
Indian of our prairies. You may lift them out of their primitive
condition--temporarily suspend, if you please so to put it, their
primordial attraction,--but, left again to themselves, they will go back
to the original type; that is, their offspring will again infest the
jungles and roam their native hunting-grounds. The process here is the
very reverse of the Darwinian theory. Reversion, as a rule, follows the
degeneracy of types, instead of there being any favorable homogeneous
result, springing from a new centre of attraction. The Indian makes a
splendid savage, but a very poor white man. Think of Red Jacket taking the
part of Mercutio in the play or enacting the more valiant _role_ of
Falstaff in King Henry the Fourth. An infusion of white blood does not
help the matter, but rather makes it worse. Generally, the meanest Indian
on the continent is your half-breed, and among the negroes there is no
term so expressive of the contempt of that race, as that applied by them
to a mulatto. The present condition of Mexico affords a striking
exemplification of this law of reversion. The inheritable characteristics
or variations, produced from an infusion of Spanish blood, are rapidly
disappearing--the native blood whipping out the European. The potency is
in the inferior blood, simply because it is the predominating one. The
result has been no homogeneous new race, but a reversion, now manifestly
in progress, to the type centre or aboriginal stock. And the curse
pronounced by Ezekiel upon mongrel tribes--"woe unto the mingled peoples"
may have a significance in this connection worth considering; but it
manifestly falls outside the scope of our present inquiry.

In considering the embryological structure of man, and the homologies he
therein presents to the lower animals, Mr. Darwin thus conclusively (in
his judgment) remarks: "We thus learn that man is descended from a hairy
quadruped, furnished with a tail and pointed ears, probably arboreal in
his habits, and an inhabitant of the Old World."

But Mr. Darwin's pronominal "we," in this connection, admits of
qualification. He can hardly speak for all the scientific world at once.
The philosophical maxim of Sir Isaac Newton--_hypotheses non fingo_--I
build no hypotheses, make no suppositions, but adhere to facts--has a few
followers still left. But what are Mr. Darwin's facts? Has he yet
discovered the caudal man, except as the ever-fertile Mr. Stanley heard of
one in Africa? And where is his monkey that first lost the prehensile
power to climb trees? For bear in mind that it was the loss of this
prehensile power that resulted in the caudal atrophy of our monkey
progenitors, _who became men simply because they were tailless monkeys!_
They had lost their power to climb trees, and accordingly had no longer
any use for tails to let themselves down from the limbs. A "beneficent
necessity" therefore, according to Mr. Emerson, dropped the tail as
something decidedly "unfit." For the simplest tyro in Darwinian philosophy
will see that the loss of the Catarrhine monkey's tail, if it ever
occurred, could not have resulted from the "selection of the fittest." The
deeper Emersonian philosophy of the "rejection of the unfit," affords the
only solution of the difficulty, and then only on the assumption that the
tail is an unfit appendage for the monkey.

With the loss of his tail, in the light of this new genesis, the monkey
necessarily ceased to be arboreal in his habits. He could no longer
subsist on the fruits and nuts of trees, or take refuge therein from his
enemies. He had to go to work and make weapons to defend himself--to
construct tools--make and set traps, live on his wits, and not on his
prehensile power to climb trees. He soon discovered, of course, that the
longest pole knocked the persimmon. This was his first intellectual stride
towards the future Edison. From the simplest sort of Grahamitic
philosopher he passed into the robust, beef-eating Englishman. But this
was not all. As an arboreal gymnast, he was manifestly on his way to more
masterly feats of agility than ever,--those dependent, not on muscular
function, but on the nervous action of the brain and spinal marrow.
Necessity became with him the "mother of invention," and how admirably he
improved under this maternal instructor we are left to infer from the
paramount conclusion of Mr. Darwin, _that the demoralized monkey became
the incipient man_!

But this conclusively accounts for only one of the many anatomical
differences between man and his caudal progenitor. For why should the
loss of his tail have resulted in the changed chemistry of the monkey's
brain? or in the increased involutions of his brain even? The specific
differences between the present and ancestral types are very numerous
and demand separate classification. Their variability runs through every
bone, muscle, tissue, fibre, nerve. Their blood corpuscles are not the
same. The chemistry of their bones essentially differs. The nerves are
differently bundled and differently strung. In intonations of
voice--symmetry of arms, legs, chest--hairlessness of body, and aquatic
and land habits, the frog is a much nearer approach to man than the
monkey, as all caricaturists, delineating aldermanic proportions, will
agree. And Mr. Darwin might have immortalized himself by deriving the
builders of the ancient pile-habitations and other primitive water-rats
and croakers of the Swiss lakes, from this tailless batrachian. For
everybody knows, or thinks he knows, how the frog lost his tail. If he
didn't wag it off, he certainly absorbed its waggishness as a
distinguishing characteristic of the "coming man"--the future Artemas
Wards and Mark Twains of the race. This ancestral origin will also
account for the otherwise unaccountable proclivity of all human
juveniles to play at the game of leap-frog! Besides, it would have
relieved Mr. Darwin from one of the greatest perplexities he has had to
encounter. As he derives man from a hairy quadruped, the absence of hair
on the human body, is a phenomenal fact that gives him great trouble. He
agrees that it does not result from "natural selection," as he says "the
loss of hair is an inconvenience and probably an injury to man." Nor
does he suppose it to result from what he calls "correlated
development." He is more puzzled over this problem of divestiture than
any other, and finds the solution of it only in "sexual selection." That
is, he assumes that among our semi-human progenitors, far back in the
Tertiary or some other period, some female monkeys were less hirsute
than others, and that they naturally preferred males possessing similar
characteristics. These divergencies were thus commenced, and, by
continuous "sexual selection," the infirmity (for such he regards the
loss of hair) was propagated until the race was almost entirely denuded
or bereft of this covering. In the same way he accounts for nearly all
the differentiations of the race, among the various tribes now or
formerly inhabiting the earth. All have sprung from the same semi-human
progenitors--_apes that lost their capacity to subsist as apes, and
hence found it necessary to subsist as men_!

The law of degeneracy has, therefore, had quite as much to do with human
origins as that of progressive development. In fact, it is the paramount
law from a Darwinian stand-point. For the loss of hair and of the
prehensile power to climb trees are both conceded by Mr. Darwin to be
serious defects and drawbacks in the ape family.

But the law of sexual selection, as treated by the evolutionists, is not
scientifically accurate, nor is it true in fact. The loving tendency of
nature is to opposites, not likes. The positive and negative poles are
those that play into each other with most marvellous effect. Each repels
its like and rushes to the embrace of its opposite. Extremes lovingly meet
everywhere. A brunette selects a blonde and a blonde a brunette, as a
general rule in matrimony. A tall man or woman, with rare exceptions,
chooses a short companion for life. Dark eyes delight in those that are
light, and _vice-versa_. Everywhere nature seeks diversity, not
similitude. The gayest and brightest feathered songster craves
companionship in modest and unobtrusive colors. Diversity is the law of
life, as equality, or versimilitude, is that of death. Neither natural
selection, nor sexual selection, runs counter to this law. If Mr. Darwin's
theory were true, that likes selected likes, then the two marked extremes
which should have characterized the race, soon after its emergence from
the semi-human state, should have been giants and pigmies, Gargantuas and
Lilliputs. Otherwise "sexual selection," as treated by its author, plays
no intelligible part in the economy of nature, except to counterbalance
variability, not to propagate it.

But the Darwinian assumption that the primeval man, or his immediate
ape-like progenitor, came through "natural selection," that is, through
the "survival of the fittest," is subject to one or two other objections
which we shall briefly notice. And the first objection is not altogether
a technical one. The term "fittest," as applied to a monkey, has at once
a definite and comprehensive significance to us. It implies the presence
of whatever is most perfect of its kind in the monkey _as_ a monkey, and
not in the monkey _as_ something else than a monkey. They are all
admirably adapted for climbing trees; and it is this adaptation that
secures them safety, or complete immunity, in shelter from their
enemies. To say that nature selects the fittest for them--for any
species of monkey--by converting their forefeet into rudimentary hands,
with a loss of prehension and no corresponding advantages in locomotion,
is to use language without any appreciable significance to us. We can
only say that what is fittest for the monkey is ill-fitted for man, and
the reverse. This is all we can definitely predicate of them, from what
we know of their anatomical structure, and the diversified uses to which
it may be put.

The fact is, as the Bible genesis shows, that every living thing is
perfect of its kind, and whatever is perfect admits of no Darwinian
variations or improvements for the better. And the simple statement of
this undeniable proposition is, we submit, a complete refutation of
Darwinism. When the waters and the earth were commanded to bring forth
abundantly of every living creature and every living thing, "it was so,
and God saw that it was good," that is, everything perfect of its kind,
and in its kind. With this single limitation as to kind, a rattlesnake is
no less perfect than a Plato or a John Howard.

When we consider man's upright position; the firmness and steadiness with
which he plants his foot upon the earth; when we examine the mechanism of
his hand, and the wonderful and almost unlimited range it possesses for
diversified use; when we see how ill-fitted he is for climbing trees, yet
how express and admirable for climbing among the stars, even to the
outermost milky-way, the idea that what is fittest for him is fit for the
chattering monkey, is too absurd to give us pause. And yet how does Mr.
Darwin know that the monkey has been climbing up, all these hundred
thousand or million years, into man, as one of the congenital freaks of
nature, and not man shambling down into the monkey as a reverse
congenital freak. Children have sometimes been born with a singular
resemblance to the ape family, but no ape has ever, to Mr. Darwin's
knowledge, produced issue more manlike than itself. The divergencies run
the wrong way to meet the conditions of the development theory. We have
had nearly five thousand years in which to mark these transitional
changes, and yet the monkey of to-day is identical with that painted on
the walls of ancient Meroe. In all this time he has made no advance in
the genetic relation; and if we turn back the lithographic pages of
nature for a hundred times five thousand years, we shall find no
essential departure from aboriginal types.

But the Darwinian hypothesis admits of a more conclusive answer than we
have yet given. Past time, it will be conceded, is theoretically if not
actually infinite; and in all past time, nature has been tugging away at
Mr. Darwin's problem of the "survival of the fittest." It is no two
hundred and fifty thousand years, nor two hundred and fifty millions, but
an infinite duration of past time that covers the period in which she has
been wrestling with this problem. How successfully has she solved it? In
the Darwinian sense of the term "fittest," she has not so much as stated
her first equation or extracted the root of her first power. She is
manifestly as much puzzled over the problem as Mr. Darwin himself. He
fails to see that the "survival of the fittest," necessarily implies, or
carries with it, the correlative proposition,--the "non-survival of the
unfit." And when such a law has been operative for an infinite duration of
past time, the "unfit," however infinitely distributed at first, should
have disappeared altogether, many thousands, if not millions, of years
ago. If the evolutionists are dealing with vast problems, and assigning to
nature, unlimited factors to express the totality of her unerring
operations, they must be careful to limit the time in which any one of her
given labors is to be accomplished. If she makes any progress at all, an
infinite duration of past time should enable her to complete her work just
as effectually as an infinite duration of time to come.

But by what law of "natural selection," appertaining to a single pair of
old world monkeys, have their offspring advanced to this regal state of
manhood, while all other pairs have remained stationary, or precisely
where they were two hundred and fifty thousand years ago or more? Why
this exceptional divergence in the case of a single pair of monkeys? Why
this anomalous, aberrant, and thoroughly eccentric movement on the part
of nature? We had supposed that her operations were uniform--conformable
to fixed laws of movement. The doctrine of the "survival of the fittest"
implies this. Why then, should nature, in her unerring operations, have
selected the fittest in respect to a single pair of Catarrhine monkeys,
and at the same time rejected the fittest in the case of a million other
pairs? If she had selected only the fittest in respect to this old world
stock of monkeys, the entire Catarrhine family should have disappeared
in the next higher or fitter group--a group nowhere to be found in
geological distribution. The break between man and this Catarrhine
monkey covers quite a series of links in the genetic vinculum;[37] and
yet between the two we find no high form of a low type fitting into a
low form of a high type, as we manifestly should, to account for all the
diversified changes that must have taken place in the interim. And what
is true of the types is measurably true of the classes within the types,
as well as of the orders within the classes. Wide deviations in forms,
as in characteristics, would seem to be the invariable rule; the
blending of type into type, except perhaps in remote relationships, is
nowhere visible.

But if "variation" and "natural selection" have played important parts in
the economy of nature, why may not "specific creation" have played _its_
part also? Positive science can hardly flatter itself with the belief that
it is rolling back the mystery of the universe to a point beyond which
"specific creation" might not have commenced, or the divine fiat been put
forth. To believe in the possibility of a rational synthesis, limited to
sensible experience, or phenomenal facts within our reach, that shall
climb from law to law, or from concrete fact to abstract conception, until
it shall reach the _Ultima Thule_ of all law, is to carry the faith of the
scientist beyond the most transcendental belief of the theologian, and
make him a greater dupe to his illusions than was ever cloistered in a
monastery or affected austerity therein as a balm to the flesh. We may
substitute new dogmatisms for old ones, but we can never postulate a
principle that shall make the general laws of nature any less mysterious
than the partial or exceptional, or that shall in the long run, render
"natural selection" any more comprehensible, or acceptable to the rational
intuition, than "specific creation." For while one class of scientists is
climbing the ladder of synthesis, by assigning a reason for a higher law
that may be predicated of a lower, we shall find the broader and more
analytical mind accepting the higher mystery for the lower, and, by
divesting its faith of all metaphysical incumbrance, landing in the belief
of an all-encompassing law, which shall comprehend the entire assemblage
of known laws and facts in the universe. And the natural drift of the
human mind is ever towards this abstract conception--this one
all-encompassing law of the universe. It steadily speculates in this
direction, and some of the highest triumphs of our age, in physical as
well as metaphysical science, are measurably due to this tendency. The
scientific mind is not confined wholly to experimental research. It is
stimulated to higher contemplations, and is constantly disposed to make
larger and more comprehensive groupings of analogous facts. It is fast
coming to regard light, heat, electricity, magnetism, gravitation,
chemical affinity, molecular force, and even Mr. Darwin's little
whirligig, as only so many manifestations or expressions of one and the
same force in the universe--that ultimate, all-encompassing, divine force
(not to speak unscientifically) that upholds the order of the heavens,
"binds the sweet influences of the Pleiades, brings forth Mazzaroth in his
season, and guides Arcturus with his suns."

It is the boast of the Darwinian systematizers that their development
theory not only harmonizes with, but admirably supplements and out-rounds
the grander speculation of Laplace, termed the "Nebular Hypothesis," which
regards the universe as having originally consisted of uniformly diffused
matter, filling all space, which subsequently became aggregated by
gravitation, much after the manner of Mr. Darwin's little whirligig, into
an infinite number of sun-systems, occupying inconceivably vast areas in
space. Of the correctness of this hypothesis it is unnecessary to speak.
It is to the Darwinian speculation what the infinite is to the
infinitessimal, and we only refer to it to bring out the vastness of the
conception as compared to the latter theory, and to predicate thereon the
more conclusive induction that an Infinite Intelligence directs and
superintends all.

In an area in the Milky-way not exceeding one-tenth of the moon's disc,
Mr. Herschel computes the number of stars at not less than twenty
thousand, with clusters of nebulae lying still beyond. As we know that no
bodies shining by reflected light could be visible at such enormous
distances, we are left to conclude that each of these twinkling points is
a sun, dispensing light and heat to probably as many planets as hold their
courses about the central orb in our own system. From the superior
magnitude of many of the stars, as compared with the sun, we may
reasonably infer that many of these vast sun-systems occupy a much larger
field in space than our own. This would give an area in space of not less
than six thousand millions of miles as the field occupied by each of these
sun-systems. And as the distance between each of these systems and its
nearest neighbor is probably not less than that of our sun from the
nearest star, we have the enormous and inconceivable distance of not less
than nineteen billions of miles separating each one of these twenty
thousand stars or sun-systems, occupying a space in the heavens apparently
no bigger than a man's hand. And yet Infinity, as we apprehend the term,
lies beyond this vast cluster of constellated worlds! Where is Mr.
Darwin's little whirligig in the comparison, or Mr. Emerson's vegetal
stomach, or Mr. Herbert Spencer's "potential factors," to express the
sum-total of all this totality,--this gigantic assemblage of stars
clustered about a single point in the Milky-way? The human mind absolutely
reels--staggers bewildered and amazed--under the load of conceptions
imposed by these few twinkling stars, and is ready to exclaim,--

  "Oh, star-eyed Science, hast thou wandered there,
  To waft us back a message of despair?"

But when we reflect that all this vast aggregation of sun systems, visible
in the telescopic field, is not stationary, but is revolving with
inconceivable rapidity about some unknown and infinitely remote centre of
the universe, how immeasurably vast does the conception become, and how
unutterably puerile and fatuous the thought of _Mr. Darwin's little
whirligig as the author of it all!_ No wonder the inspired Psalmist
exclaims; "The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth
his handiwork." But listen to the Darwinian exclamation: "The heavens
declare the glory of my little whirligig, and the firmament showeth the
immensity of my little ovules." With the veil of faith and inspiration
lifted, the words of the Psalmist swell into the highest cherubic anthem,
while those of Mr. Darwin hardly rise above the squeak of a mole burrowing
beneath the glebe!

And what presumptuous mortal shall say that this infinitely remote centre
of the universe, around which revolves this infinite number of
sun-systems, is not the seat and throne of the Infinite One himself--the
Sovereign Intelligence and Power of the universe, directing and upholding
all? We know that some of the stars are travelling about this central
point of the heavens at a pace exceeding 194,000 miles an hour, or with
nearly three times the rapidity of our earth in its orbit. That there must
be infinite power, not physical, at this unknown centre of the universe,
to hold these myriads of sun-systems in their courses, is a logical
induction as irrefragable as that the sun holds his planets in their
orbits. And if infinite power is predicable upon this central point, why
not infinite intelligence also? Intelligence, we know, controls and
utilizes all power in this world; why not all power in the universe? It
can utilize every drop of water that thunders down Niagara to-day, as it
has already seized upon the lightnings of heaven to make them our
post-boy. This is what finite intelligence--that insignificant factor that
science would eliminate from the universe--can do; then what may not
Infinite Intelligence accomplish?

But the Darwinian systematizers object that science must limit itself to a
coordination of the known relations of things in the universe, or deal
only with phenomenal facts, not dogmatisms; forgetting that they dogmatize
quite as extensively, in constructing their chain of generation, as the
theologians do in adhering to the Bible genesis. No theologian objects to
a rational synthesis of phenomena, limited to sensible experience; but, in
climbing from law to law, he reasonably enough insists, that, when
concrete facts rise into abstract conceptions, the highest round in the
ladder shall not be knocked out for the accommodation of Robert G.
Ingersoll or any other boasted descendant of a gorilla. And he also
insists that when _a priori_ speculation is lost in abstract conceptions,
the highest must necessarily press alone upon the intuitions of
consciousness, where all generalizations cease, and all synthesis is
undeniably at an end. Here, in this mysterious chamber of the soul, we
stand silent and alone, with only dim and shadowy phantoms about us, as if
in the august presence of Deity itself.

But how does scientific speculation propose to stifle these intuitions of
consciousness--reduce them to the least of all potential factors in the
universe? We will take the very latest of these speculations. In
supplementing both the Darwinian theory and the grander speculation of
Laplace, the scientists, so called, tell us that the process of
aggregation, or the turning out of new worlds in the universe, is still
going on; but that the time is coming when all the primeval potency or
energy, originally inhering in diffused matter, will have exhausted itself
in actual energy, and that then all light, life and motion in the
universe, will cease and be at an end. This dissipation of potential
energy is to result, they say, in a played-out universe, as it has already
resulted, they claim, in a played-out moon, if not countless other
heavenly bodies.[38] All the exterior planets, or a majority of them at
least, are to be placed in this category of dismantled worlds, or those in
which all life has hopelessly ceased and become extinct. All has utterly
disappeared, or, to paraphrase one of Pope's couplets,

  "Beast, bird, fish, insect--what no eye can scan,
  Nor glass can reach--from zoophyte to man."

All these dismantled planets, and satellites to planets, are only so many
immense cinders--mere refuse slag--of no conceivable interest to science,
except to predicate the ultimate conclusion--"a played-out universe,
resulting from a played-out potency within the universe." The magnificent
clockwork of the heavens will then have run down, with no Darwinian
whirligig to wind it up again, and the terrible reality of Byron's dream,
which it would seem was not all a dream, be realized in the bright sun
extinguished, the stars darkling the eternal space, rayless and pathless,
and the icy earth swung blind and blackening in the moonless air.

Oh, if this be star-eyed science, give us anything in place of it!
Blear-eyed bigotry in his cloistered den, mumbling unintelligible prayers,
and believing that man is to be saved, not by what he does, but by a
_credo_ only, is far preferable to it. But oh, how unspeakably preferable
the simple faith of the star-led Magi, who

  "Deeming the light that in the east was seen
       An earnest and a prophecy of rest
     To weary wanderers, such as they had been,"

came on that bleak December night, 1880 years ago, to pay their homage to
the Christ-child--the long expected Messiah--the Redeemer of the world!






Footnotes



[1]: It may be proper, however, to state that the tenth and concluding
     chapter was originally written as a lecture, and delivered about a
     year ago in New Haven, Boston, and at other points. A request for its
     publication has induced the author to place it in this volume, with
     the portion referring to the Bible genesis omitted. It will be found
     germane to the general subject.

[2]: "Without this latent presence of the 'I am,' all modes of existence
     in the external world flit before us as colored shadows, with no
     greater depth, root, or fixure, than the image of a rock hath in the
     gliding stream, or the rainbow on the fast-sailing rain
     storm."--_Coleridge's_ "_Comments on Essays_."

[3]: And science that is not purely inductive--i.e. primarily based on
     the inviolability of our intuitions--is no science at all, but the
     sheerest possible speculation.

[4]: This presence of an active living principle in nature, one originally
     assigned as the "_divina particula auræ_" of every living thing, is
     frequently referred to in the higher inspirational moods of our
     poets. Wordsworth exquisitely refers to it in the following lines of
     his "Excursion:"--

       "To every form of being is assigned
       An _active_ principle: howe'er removed
       From sense and observation, it subsists
       In all things, in all nature, in the stars
       Of azure heaven, the unenduring clouds;
       In flower and tree, in every pebbly stone
       That paves the brooks."

[5]: The existence of vital units is conceded by some of the staunchest
     materialists, such as Herbert Spencer, Professor Bastian and others.
     Professor Bastian says: "The countless myriads of living units which
     have been evolved in different ages of the world's history, must, in
     each period, have given rise to innumerable multitudes of what have
     been called 'trees of life.'" He insists, however, that they have
     been "evolved" from something, or by some unknown process. But we
     shall show further on that a "unit" can neither be _evolved_ nor
     _involved_, and that this is as true of vital units as of the
     mathematical or chemical unit. Neither evolution nor involution will
     ever effect the value of a unit.

[6]: According to Aristotle, the great world-_ordainer_ is the constant
     world-_sustainer_.

[7]: The definition which Professor Robinson, in his Lexicon of the New
     Testament, gives of the word σπέρμα, as connected with the "divine
     life," entirely harmonizes with this view of the subject. He says: Trop.
     I John 3, 9, πἃς ό γεγενημένος ἐκ του ϑεου σπέρμα ἀυτον (ϑεὄν) εν ᾶντῶ
     πενεὶ _i.e._ the germ or principle of divine life through which he
     is begotten of god, το πνεὒμα.

[8]: Professor Schmidt, of the University of Strasburg, who insists that
     species are only relatively stable, admits that they remain
     persistent as long as they exist under the same external conditions.
     Time is, therefore, not a factor in the mutation of species. Nor are
     environing conditions factors, except as a failure of conditions
     results in the disappearance of species, as the presence of
     conditions results in their appearance.

[9]: Says M. Ch. Bonnet, in his "La Palingéuésie Philosophique;" "Il est
     de la plus parfaite évidence que la matiere est susceptible d'une
     infinité de mouvemens divers, et de modifications diverses," and this
     is the universal claim of the materialists.

[10]: Professor Burdach (as trad, par Jourdan), in speaking of the
      productive power of nature, says, "Limitée quant á l' étendue de ses
      manifestations, elle continue toujottrs d' agir pour la conservation
      de ce qui a été créé, et, quoiqu' elle ne maintenue les formes
      organiques supérieures que par la seule propagation, il ne répugne
      point au bon sens de penser qu' aujourd' hui encore elle a la
      puissance de produire les formes inférieures avec des eléments
      hétérogénes, comme elle a créé originairement tout ce qui posséde l'
      organisation." This shows that its author believed in the
      possibility of the "superior organic forms," like the mastodon,
      megatherium, etc. from the "heterogenetic elements"--those
      undergoing every conceivable change--as well as the "inferior
      forms." At all events, it is a legitimate induction from
      materialistic premises.

[11]: This point is conclusively made by Professor Burdach, who says (we
      quote from Jourdan); "La tendance interieure á la configuration
      existe avant sa manifestation." And by his _tendance interieure_ he
      must mean some vital or other law, equivalent to an _entia_ in
      matter, which results _in_, not _from_ manifestation.

[12]: Goethe borrowed his idea of an archetypal world from Plato and the
      Eleatic school. They held that the world was originated, and not
      eternal; that it was framed by the Creator after a perfect
      archetype, one eternally existing in the divine mind, if not an
      actual soul-world of which our own is but the reflex.

[13]: In a note to Prof. Bastian's "Beginnings of Life" (vol II. p. 537)
      an important fact is mentioned as obtained from the writings of Dr.
      Schneider, to wit, that _Nematoids_ (microscopical forms) may be
      "obtained at will," almost as readily as mushrooms, by a process
      entirely independent of spores. For instance, small pieces of beef
      were carefully examined to see if they contained any of the ova of
      Nematoids, and, finding none, they were buried in a small quantity
      of earth (also carefully examined for the presence of Nematoids or
      their ova) in a gallipot. "After three weeks," says Prof. B. "this
      earth was found to be absolutely swarming with two kinds of
      Nematoids--quite different from any forms which I had previously,
      seen, although I had been seeking them for more than two years
      previously in all sorts of situations." The reason why he had not
      found them previously, was because the "necessary conditions" for
      their appearance had not been obtained by him, or he had not sought
      for them in their proper environment. They were not produced "at
      will," but were the natural outgrowth of conditions, as much so as
      the spores of fungi, which make their appearance whenever and
      wherever the necessary environing conditions exist. According to Dr.
      Gros, it takes about three weeks for these Nematoid forms to develop
      into a reproductive state.

[14]: The necessity of turning plants and animals into "tramps" is just as
      great in the case of "Evolution" as in that of "specific creation in
      pairs." In both cases, we must insist upon geneological
      consanguinity. For the chances of any two highly specialized forms,
      originally starting on different lines of divergence, and ultimately
      reaching individual identity, both in form and characteristics, is
      an impossible problem in the determination of chances. Consequently,
      Mr. Darwin finds the necessity of accounting for the presence of
      northern forms in the southern hemisphere, and the reverse, just as
      great as in the Linnæan theory, which was fully accepted by Cuvier.

[15]: Burdach, in his "_Traité Physiologie" (Trad. par Jourdan_. 1837)
      says: "Effectivement nous rencontrons des traces de vie dans toute
      existence quelconque." This is as broad a panspermic statement as
      can be made, and is only true of inorganic matter so far as
      vegetable life is concerned, including such infusorial, mycologic,
      and cryptogamic forms as may lie so near to the "force vegetative"
      of Needham as to be indistinguishable from it.

[16]: In the case of volcanic islands, the upheavals were undoubtedly
      accompanied by deposits of mud, sand (ocean detritus), marine
      vegetation, and more or less animal matter, and these organic
      substances were washed down by the rains into the broken valleys and
      plains below, when land vegetation almost immediately made its
      appearance; not because seeds may have drifted thither by any of the
      different agencies that have been mentioned, but because organic
      matter can no more help bringing forth life in some form, when
      conditions favor, than salt water, when exposed to evaporation, can
      help crystallizing into its symmetrically-arranged salts. And the
      same would be true of all the coral islands, bringing up the organic
      matter of the sea to the influence of the light, the rains, and the
      dews. The islands thus formed in the Pacific Ocean begin to exhibit
      vegetable life almost as soon as they make their appearance above
      the reefs, and a line of sea-beach is formed about them.

[17]: These, while presenting the most varied and diverse forms of
      infusorial life, are nevertheless the most constant and abundant
      type. They abound more or less in all organic infusions. Ehrenberg,
      however, holds that they are no more animal than vegetal forms. They
      vary in length from 1/15000 to 1/2000 of an inch, and are
      consequently too minute to be satisfactorily classified in respect
      to all their diversified characteristics.

[18]: The extent of the southern ice-cap may at least be approximately
      reached from explorations already made. Capt. Weddell, in 1823,
      extended his explorations southward to within about 15° of the
      south pole, where he found an open sea. Capt. Ross, in 1842,
      approached to within about 13° of the same pole, without serious
      obstruction. It is true that, in the following year, he encountered
      ice barriers near the line of the antarctic circle, but they were
      floating barriers coming down from Weddell's open sea. Capt.
      Wilkes, in 1840, explored a considerable portion of the Antarctic
      Continent, lying almost entirely within the antarctic circle. Other
      explorations have been made, showing that the southern ice-cap does
      not probably extend, continuously at least, much farther north than
      78° or 80°, or to within some ten or twelve degrees of the south
      pole, independently of the packs of drifting ice in the otherwise
      open seas.

[19]: The truth or falsity of "Evolution" depends entirely on the
      successful solution of this problem, for the chances are
      quintillions to ones that no two identical forms could have
      originated from different centres, or from the same centre on
      divergent lines, and ever reached identically the same results. And
      how any two forms should happen to be sexually paired, on the same
      or different lines of divergence, is one of those inexplicable
      mysteries which must puzzle Herbert Spencer in all his labyrinthian
      searches into "Force-correlation," "Differentiation," "the Dynamic
      Force of Molecules," etc., etc. However successful he may be in
      other directions, he will inevitably fail in this. We must fall back
      on the grand Old Bible genesis for the solution of this difficulty,
      where every living thing was commanded to produce seed, or multiply
      and replenish the waters and the earth with offspring.

[20]: These transcendental or ideal forms may be said to correspond to the
      "spiritual essences" of Plato. They are the eternal, immutable
      principles which are discernible to the eye of the soul, as the
      sensible objects they represent are discernible to the eye of the
      body. Modern metaphysics may deem them mere abstractions, but a
      higher realistic philosophy will treat them as substantive forms, of
      which the objective reality is but the shadow.

[21]: Herbert Spencer may be quoted as authority on this point. He says:
      "There is invariably, and necessarily, a conformity between the
      vital functions of any organism, and the _conditions_ in which it is
      placed ... We find that every animal is limited to a certain range
      of climate; every plant to certain zones of latitude and elevation."
      And the same law holds good as to the marine fauna and flora, each
      specific form being confined to its own sea-depth, or distance north
      or south from the thermal equator.

[22]: Speaking of the ultimate principles or elements of matter, Plato is
      quoted by Humboldt as exclaiming with modest diffidence, "God alone,
      and those whom he loves among men, know what they are." It is only
      those who seek to eliminate God from the universe that speak with
      confident flippancy on the subject of molecular machinery and
      force-correlations.

[23]: As long as the evolutionists cannot agree among themselves as to
      what constitutes the process of evolution, it can hardly be expected
      that the public will accept their speculations as conclusive
      inductions. Professor Bastian, who strongly commits himself to the
      doctrine, thinks the word "evolution" arbitrary and open to many
      objections, while Mr. Herbert Spencer says;--"The antithetical word
      Involution would much more truly express the nature of the process."

[24]: "Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the spirit of
      God dwelleth in you?" 1 Cor. 3. xvi.

[25]: Dr. Drysdale, in his work on the "Protoplasmic Theory of Life,"
      says: "Matter cannot change its state of motion or rest without the
      influence of some force from without. True spontaneity of movement
      is, therefore, just as impossible to it as to what we call dead
      matter.... So we are compelled to admit the existence of an exciting
      cause in the form of some force from without to give the initial
      impulse in all vital actions." In all life-manifestations, this
      "force from without," must be a pre-existing vital principle
      operating to effect the otherwise impossible change in matter.

[26]: A favorite set-phrase of Professor Bastian in speaking of
      morphological cells or "units," as he sometimes calls them.

[27]: That great and justly celebrated naturalist, Buffon, in speaking of
      the universal origination of the lower forms of animal life by a
      process termed, in his time, "spontaneous generation," says: "There
      are, perhaps, as many living things, both animal and vegetable,
      which are produced by the fortuitous aggregations of 'molécules
      organiques,' as there are others which reproduce themselves by a
      constant succession of generations." It is said that Buffon was for
      some time associated with the Abbé Needham in his experiments in
      vital directions, and was much influenced by them. So that it is by
      no means certain that he did not accept the Abbé's "force
      végétative" in place of his more materialistic views respecting
      "molécules organiques." At all events, his statement that as many
      living things appear in nature independently of reproducing causes
      as by successive generation, is no doubt true.

[28]: M. Tréviranus, who followed Spallanzani and M. Bonnet in these flask
      experimentations, first noticed the important fact that the
      animalculæ appearing in different organic infusions, depended on
      the nature and quality of the infusions themselves, and that the
      changed conditions of the same infusion produced new and independent
      forms of life.

[29]: Leibnitz, as quoted by M. Bonnet, says:--"Que l'Entendement Divin
      étoit la religion éternelle des Essences; parce que tout ce qui
      existe existoit comme de toute éternité comme possible ou en idée
      dans l'entendement de Dieu. J'exprimerai cette vérité sublime en
      d'autres termes: le plan entier d'univers existoit de toute Eternité
      dans l'entendement du Suprême Architecte. Tou tes les parties de
      l'univers et jusqu' an moindre atome étoient deffinés dans ce plan.
      Tous les changemens qui devoient survenir aux différentes pieces de
      ce Tout immense y avoient aussi leurs représentations. Chaque etre y
      étoit figuré par ses characteres propres: et l'acte par lequel la
      Souveraine Puissance a réalisé ce plan, est ce que nous nommons la
      Création."

[30]: Here is a fact given us by Dr. F. Hall, of Wallingford, Conn.: In a
      peat meadow in that town, owned by him, which was at no time subject
      to overflow, a large quantity of peat had been removed at different
      intervals of time, when the excavations naturally filled with water.
      In these excavations there appeared not only the _Cyprinidae_ in
      considerable numbers, but fresh water clams which grew to be as
      large as those in the most favored streams. They made their
      appearance the very first season after the peat was removed, and
      have flourished there ever since. In no other portions of the meadow
      were there any fish or clams ever noticed before, nor was there any
      other source of water-supply than the rain-falls in that locality.

[31]: Professor Beale, in one of his very latest works says: "Of the
      chemical and physical forms of energy something is known, but of
      the relationship of the so called _vital_ energy, nothing has
      been proved. We only know that the influence it exerts is
      altogether different from that which has been traced to physical
      and chemical energy."

[32]: It is admitted, even in the case of _Bacteria_, whose movements are
      the most uniform, that they are sometimes so inert and languid as to
      show no movements at all; while, at other times, they exhibit mere
      Brownian movements or those no more nearly allied to "life" than the
      minute particles of carbon escaping from the flame of a kerosene
      lamp. And among the most distinguished microscopists, it is a
      question whether these infusorial forms, those exhibiting the most
      active oscillations, are really vegetal or animal in origin; in
      other words, whether they are _Fungus-spores_ or _Torula_-cells, or
      whether they may not be some intermediate forms.

[33]: The difficulty of assigning any definitional value to a "primordial
      germ" is due to the vagueness of idea attached to it in the popular
      mind, as well as to the diversified theories and speculations of the
      scientists concerning the origin of life. We can only define it as a
      "vital unit," as the chemist defines his smallest conceivable
      quantity--his "primary least"--of an element, as a "chemical unit."

[34]: Let two comrades be shot at the same instant in battle, the one
      through the heart, and the other through the arm, shattering it
      badly. What is there to prevent the surgeon from taking a piece of
      bone out of the arm of the man shot through the heart and instantly
      killed, and using it to make good the arm of the man still living?
      Apparently nothing but that the dead man's bone will not knit. He
      may not have been dead five minutes, and Professor Beale's bioplasts
      might still be at work spinning matter and weaving tissue for the
      integrity of the displaced bone. Why will it not knit? Simply
      because the vital principle that differentiates matter is gone--can
      no longer act. If the integrity of the bone depended on the action
      of the molecules, and not on the vital principle, there is no reason
      why this experiment should not be a success. For the molecules are
      all there, and their action will not be disturbed for hours after
      the death of the man shot through the heart.

[35]: It is safe to adhere to the Leibnitzian axiom, _Natura non agit
      saltatim_.

[36]: One of the most cultured classes of Christian believers in our day,
      holds that "all life is from the Lord;" that "He is the fountain,
      and we only the streams thence." And this, they claim, is true of
      all life. To "take away our breath," therefore, is to cut off this
      stream perpetually flowing from its invisible source--the fountain
      of all Life. When scientific methods substitute for a first cause a
      mere resultant effect, all primary principles disappear in their
      intermediates.

[37]: Professor Marsh, of Yale College, has predicted that the "missing
      link" will be found in Borneo--evidently not crediting Mr. Stanley's
      statement about its presence in the interior of Africa. But one
      "missing link" is hardly enough; there ought to be an extensive
      family of them to complete Mr. Darwin's plexus. From the lowest
      genetic form to the anthropoid ape is a distance which does not half
      cover the length of this plexus--the immense gap between the monkey
      and the man being decidedly the greater length of chain. And yet the
      first half of the chain is traversed by innumerable forms--millions
      of links, so to speak. How, then, is the greater length of the
      plexus to be covered by a single "missing link?" A long line of
      caudal ancestry must be dug up, therefore, in Borneo, and shipped to
      the Peabody Museum, before this tremendous stretch in the chain of
      animated nature is satisfactorily accounted for. Borneo must be
      exceedingly rich in osteologic remains, even to bridge the chasm
      between its own ourang-outangs and the Dyaks, or aboriginal
      inhabitants, of that island.

[38]: This daring hypothesis of the materialists is so utterly repugnant
      to all our ideas of a perfected Cosmos, that we have no patience
      with those advancing it. It is, at best, speculation run mad, and is
      based on no other assumption than that of the inherent
      imperfectibility of the universe as it came from the hand of God, or
      from the dynamic play of molecules extending throughout vast
      geognostic epochs.

      From a materialistic stand-point this assumption of imperfectibility
      inevitably runs into the _reductio ad absurdum_. For if, in the play
      of the material forces of the universe, an infinite duration of past
      time has effected nothing but mutually disturbing and re-adjusting
      movements and relations among cosmical bodies, then an infinite
      duration of time to come can effect nothing but similarly mutual
      adjustments and re-adjustments in respect to such bodies. With an
      infinity of time, space, matter and motion, everywhere presenting a
      unity of phenomena in the universe, "there can never be anything,"
      according to the great Stagirite, "unconnected or out of place, as
      in a bad tragedy." Conservation must, therefore, be the rule, and
      desinence the impossible exception.

      But these adherents of inherent imperfectibility instance the fact
      of vanished and variable stars, as well as those that have suddenly
      appeared, and, after brief periods of intense brilliancy, as
      suddenly disappeared, to show that there are mighty disturbances in
      the sidereal heavens which entirely negative the idea of
      "conservation" as a geognostic law. But the phenomena of variable
      stars, with all their apparent irregularity of motion and
      fluctuations in luminosity, are now being traced to definite and
      well-determined laws of motion, if not of light, while the theory of
      extinguished and disappearing stars belongs exclusive to the age of
      Tycho Brahe. Where there is one self-luminious body (or sun) in the
      interstellary spaces, there are probably not less than forty
      non-luminous or dark cosmical bodies revolving about their
      respective centres of light and heat, as the attending planets
      revolve about the common centre of gravity in our own system. And
      this is especially true of that vast and fathomless star-stratum,
      called the Milky-way, in which most of these peculiar phenomena
      occur, with the exception of the variable stars only.

      That stars should vary in their intensity of light by the probable
      transits of these dark cosmical bodies across their discs, is no
      matter of wonder or astonishment: on the contrary, it is surprising
      that these sidereal phenomena do not occur with much greater
      frequency. This would inevitably be the case if the planes of
      revolution, in the case of these non-luminous bodies about their
      central orbs, were coincident with the lines of vision from our own
      planet--a circumstance by no means improbable from the vastness of
      the sidereal heavens and the innumerable hosts of stars marching
      therein. Besides, these periodical variations may be accounted for
      in part--especially in the case of double stars--from their apparent
      rather than real change of place in the heavens. For if our
      sun-system is travelling towards a point in the constellation
      Hercules at the rate of 194 thousand miles an hour (the rapidity of
      Arcturus' flight), it is impossible to determine, in the present
      state of astronomical knowledge, whether the apparent change of
      place in any star is real or merely optical. But, in the case of
      double stars, each is travelling (independently of its other
      motions) about the common centre of gravity obtaining in its own
      system, and these relative movements may account for the greater or
      less intensity of light as the two stars, viewed as one, present a
      greater or less area of luminosity in their united surfaces.

      The assumed revolution of one of these stars about the other--thus
      destroying all the known analogies of the universe, as exemplified
      in our own system--may be accounted for in the same way. With
      stupendous planetary systems revolving about each of these
      apparently double stars, they must respectively have a revolution,
      real as well as apparent, about their own centres of gravity--not
      one and the same centre, but different and far distant centres.
      Lying in nearly the same line of vision, with planes of movement at
      right angles with it, they would necessarily present the appearance
      of one star revolving about the other--an _apparent_ motion only.

      And the writer here ventures an explanation of the phenomena of
      _temporary_ stars, or those making their appearance in the heavens,
      flaming up into stars of the first, second and third magnitudes, and
      then disappearing altogether. The most remarkable of these stars, or
      _apparent_ stars, was that of Tycho Brahe in 1572, presenting its
      maximum brilliancy at the very first, but gradually diminishing in
      size until the end of seventeen months, when it disappeared, without
      change of place, from the heavens. This temporary star was visible
      in Cassiopeia, on the verge of the Milky-way, within whose swarm of
      stellar worlds most of these apparent stars have made their
      appearance. Tycho Brahe, in seeking to account for this stellar
      phenomenon, advanced the theory that stars might be "formed and
      molded out of cosmical vapor," or "vapory celestial matter," as the
      elder Herschel put it, "which becomes luminous as it condenses
      (conglomerates) into fixed stars." But any such rapid condensation
      of "vapory matter," in the light of Laplace's "nebular theory," is
      manifestly too absurd for scientific recognition. A more
      satisfactory explanation may be here suggested:--Supposing the
      apparent relative position of any six or seven stars of the sixth
      magnitude in the Milky-way, should be so changed by the combined
      motions of our sun-system and of the stars themselves, as to throw
      them into one and the same line of vision, but so clustered together
      as to show their several star-discs as one, we should unquestionably
      have a star of the first magnitude, which would continue as long as
      this extraordinary stellar conjunction should last. As one after
      another of these stars should fall out of line, by reason of the
      combined motions named, the apparent star would be diminished from
      the first to the second magnitude, and so on until it reached the
      sixth magnitude, when it would pass beyond the reach of unaided
      human vision. But as the star of Tycho Brahe suddenly appeared at
      its fullest brilliancy, it may be objected that this suggested
      theory fails to meet the required conditions.

      As 18,000,000, out of the 20,000,000, of telescopic stars lie in the
      Milky-way, it is not by any means improbable that such a conjunction
      of stars may occur therein as often at least as once or twice in a
      century. We certainly see brilliant patches of closely-crowded
      stars, in great numbers, in this galactic zone, and the fact that
      these temporary stars almost uniformly appear in that zone renders
      the suggestion here made quite as rational, in the way of
      speculation at least, as that of "vapory celestial matter" suddenly
      condensed into a star of the first magnitude, as Sir. William
      Herschel would have us believe was possible, if not probable.

      Besides, it is a definitely ascertained fact that such clusters of
      stars, lying in almost the same line of vision, exist in various
      parts of the heavens, which present to the naked eye the appearance
      of a star of the fourth or fifth magnitude, and probably would, if
      more thickly clustered, present that of a star of the first
      magnitude. But powerful telescopes resolve them into a large number
      of stars, from the thirteenth to the fifteenth magnitude. One such
      cluster in Andromeda's girdle has been resolved into not less than
      fifteen hundred small stars of very low magnitude, and pretty widely
      scattered in the telescopic field. Alexander Von Humboldt, in
      speaking of stars that have thus disappeared, says that "their
      disappearance may be the result of their motion as much as of any
      diminution of their photometric processes (whether on their surfaces
      or in their photospheres), as would render the waves of light too
      weak too excite the organs of sight." And he adds: "What we no
      longer see is not necessarily annihilation," repeating at the same
      time the question of Pliny--"_Stellæ an obirent nascerenturve?_"

      But another, and (to our mind) more satisfactory, explanation of
      these stellar phenomena, may be hazarded in this connection: There
      are, for instance, in the Milky-way, among the more brilliant
      clusters of stars, dark granular spots, of greater or less
      magnitude, in which the most powerful telescopes show no glints or
      traces of stars. They are among Humboldt's smaller "fissures or
      chasms in the heavens," in which he asserts that there is a great
      paucity of stars, or none at all. Now, if one of these thick stellar
      clusters, which show to the naked eye as a single star, should, by
      the combined cosmical movements of our sun-system and the stellar
      group in question, pass into the field of one of these small rents
      or "fissures" in the galactic curtain--that lying in front of the
      stellar cluster--it would immediately show as a star of possibly the
      first magnitude, and would continue to shine as a star of that
      magnitude so long as it remained in the field of the narrow rent or
      fissure. It would shine out suddenly like a star through a rift in
      the clouds of a dark night, and disappear as soon as it had
      traversed, or apparently traversed, the rift in question. This
      galactic curtain, it should be borne in mind, is made up of
      18,000,000 of stars, or sun-systems, and not less than 720,000,000
      dark cosmical bodies revolving about their respective centres of
      gravity. If the "nebular theory" of the universe be true, this is
      unquestionably the exact condition of things in the Milky-way. Of
      the more distant stars in this crowded galaxy, we can only catch,
      even in the telescopic field, mere glints of light as the
      intervening swarms of stellar and planetary worlds thicken in the
      foreground and shut out the more distant view. It is only through
      these rents and fissures in this great galactic curtain that the
      brighter stellar clusters beyond can ever be seen; and these glints
      of far distant light, showing dimly through this curtain, may
      account for the peculiar _milky_ appearance of the galaxy, arising
      from the loss of chromatic power in the full beams themselves. It
      was undoubtedly through one of these rents in the galactic curtain
      that the condensed starry cluster of Tycho Brahe suddenly made its
      appearance in the outer fringes of the Milky-way, and remained
      visible for a period of seventeen months.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Life: Its True Genesis, by R. W. Wright





E-text prepared by Eric Eldred, Marc D'Hooghe, Charles Franks, and the
Online Distributed Proofreading Team



LITERARY AND SOCIAL ESSAYS

BY

GEORGE WILLIAM CURTIS







CONTENTS


EMERSON
_Homes of American Authors, 1854._

HAWTHORNE
_Homes of American Authors, 1854._

THE WORKS OF NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE
_North American Review_, Vol. XCIX., 1864.

RACHEL
_Putnam's Magazine_, Vol. VI., 1855.

THACKERAY IN AMERICA
_Putnam's Magazine_, Vol. I., 1853.

SIR PHILIP SIDNEY
Hitherto unpublished. Written in 1857.

LONGFELLOW
HARPER'S MAGAZINE, Vol. LXV., 1882.

OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES
HARPER'S MAGAZINE, Vol. LXXXIII., 1891.

WASHINGTON IRVING
Read at Ashfield, 1889. Printed by the Grolier Club, 1892.




EMERSON


The village of Concord, Massachusetts, lies an hour's ride from
Boston, upon the Great Northern Railway. It is one of those quiet New
England towns, whose few white houses, grouped upon the plain, make
but a slight impression upon the mind of the busy traveller hurrying
to or from the city. As the conductor shouts "Concord!" the busy
traveller has scarcely time to recall "Concord, Lexington, and Bunker
Hill" before the town has vanished and he is darting through woods and
fields as solitary as those he has just left in New Hampshire. Yet as
it vanishes he may chance to "see" two or three spires, and as they
rush behind the trees his eyes fall upon a gleaming sheet of water. It
is Walden Pond--or Walden Water, as Orphic Alcott used to call
it--whose virgin seclusion was a just image of that of the little
village, until one afternoon, some half-dozen or more years since, a
shriek, sharper than any that had rung from Walden woods since the
last war-whoop of the last Indians of Musketaquid, announced to
astonished Concord, drowsing in the river meadows, that the nineteenth
century had overtaken it. Yet long before the material force of the age
bound the town to the rest of the world, the spiritual force of a single
mind in it had attracted attention to it, and made its lonely plains as
dear to many widely scattered minds as the groves of the Academy or the
vineyards of Vaucluse.

Except in causing the erection of the railway buildings and several
dwellings near it, steam has not much changed Concord. It is yet one
of the quiet country towns whose charm is incredible to all but those
who, by loving it, have found it worthy of love. The shire-town of the
great agricultural county of Middlesex, it is not disturbed by the
feverish throb of factories, nor by any roar of inexorable toil but
the few puffs of the locomotive. One day, during the autumn, it is
thronged with the neighboring farmers, who hold their high festival
--the annual cattle-show--there. But the calm tenor of Concord
life is not varied, even on that day, by anything more exciting than
fat oxen and the cud-chewing eloquence of the agricultural dinner. The
population of the region is composed of sturdy, sterling men, worthy
representatives of the ancestors who sowed along the Concord shores,
with their seed-corn and rye, the germs of a prodigious national
greatness. At intervals every day the rattle, roar, and whistle of the
swift shuttle darting to and from the metropolitan heart of New
England, weaving prosperity upon the land, remind those farmers in
their silent fields that the great world yet wags and wrestles. And
the farmer-boy--sweeping with flashing scythe through the river
meadows, whose coarse grass glitters, apt for mowing, in the early
June morning--pauses as the whistle dies into the distance, and,
wiping his brow and whetting his blade anew, questions the
country-smitten citizen, the amateur Corydon struggling with imperfect
stroke behind him, of the mystic romance of city life.

The sluggish repose of the little river images the farmer-boy's life.
He bullies his oxen, and trembles at the locomotive. His wonder and
fancy stretch towards the great world beyond the barn-yard and the
village church as the torpid stream tends towards the ocean. The
river, in fact, seems the thread upon which all the beads of that
rustic life are strung--the clew to its tranquil character. If it were
an impetuous stream, dashing along as if it claimed and required the
career to which every American river is entitled, a career it would
have. Wheels, factories, shops, traders, factory-girls, boards of
directors, dreary white lines of boarding-houses, all the signs that
indicate the spirit of the age, and of the American age, would arise
upon its margin. Some shaven magician from State Street would run up
by rail, and, from proposals, maps, schedules of stock, etc., educe a
spacious factory as easily as Aladdin's palace arose from nothing.
Instead of a dreaming, pastoral poet of a village, Concord would be a
rushing, whirling, bustling manufacturer of a town, like its thrifty
neighbor Lowell. Many a fine equipage, flashing along city ways--many
an Elizabethan-Gothic-Grecian rural retreat, in which State Street
woos Pan and grows Arcadian in summer, would be reduced, in the last
analysis, to the Concord mills. Yet if these broad river meadows grew
factories instead of corn, they might perhaps lack another harvest, of
which the poet's thought is the sickle.

  "One harvest from your field
     Homeward brought the oxen strong.
   Another crop your acres yield,
     Which I gather in a song,"

sings Emerson, and again, as the afternoon light strikes pensive
across his memory, as over the fields below him:

  "Knows he who tills this lonely field,
     To reap its scanty corn,
   What mystic crops his acres yield,
     At midnight and at morn?"

The Concord River, upon whose winding shores the town has scattered
its few houses--as if, loitering over the plain some fervent day, it
had fallen asleep obedient to the slumberous spell, and had not since
awakened--is a languid, shallow stream, that loiters through broad
meadows, which fringe it with rushes and long grasses. Its sluggish
current scarcely moves the autumn leaves showered upon it by a few
maples that lean over the Assabet--as one of its branches is named.
Yellow lily-buds and leathery lily-pads tessellate its surface, and
the white water-lilies--pale, proud Ladies of Shalott--bare their
virgin breasts to the sun in the seclusion of its distant reaches.
Clustering vines of wild grape hang its wooded shores with a tapestry
of the South and the Rhine. The pickerel-weed marks with blue spikes
of flowers the points where small tributary brooks flow in, and along
the dusky windings of those brooks cardinal-flowers with a scarlet
splendor paint the tropics upon New England green. All summer long,
from founts unknown, in the upper counties, from some anonymous pond
or wooded hillside moist with springs, steals the gentle river through
the plain, spreading at one point above the town into a little lake,
called by the farmers "Fairhaven Bay", as if all its lesser names must
share the sunny significance of Concord. Then, shrinking again,
alarmed at its own boldness, it dreams on towards the Merrimac and the
sea.

The absence of factories has already implied its shallowness and
slowness. In truth it is a very slow river, belonging much more to the
Indian than to the Yankee; so much so, indeed, that until within a
very few years there was an annual visit to its shores from a few sad
heirs of its old masters, who pitched a group of tents in the meadows,
and wove their tidy baskets and strung their beads in unsmiling
silence. It was the same thing that I saw in Jerusalem among the Jews.
Every Friday they repair to the remains of the old temple wall, and
pray and wail, kneeling upon the pavement and kissing the stones. But
that passionate Oriental regret was not more impressive than this
silent homage of a waning race, who, as they beheld the unchanged
river, knew that, unlike it, the last drops of their existence were
gradually flowing away, and that for their tribes there shall be no
ingathering.

So shallow is the stream that the amateur Corydons who embark at
morning to explore its remoter shores will, not infrequently in
midsummer, find their boat as suddenly tranquil and motionless as the
river, having placidly grounded upon its oozy bottom. Or, returning at
evening, they may lean over the edge as they lie at length in the
boat, and float with the almost imperceptible current, brushing the
tips of the long water-grass and reeds below them in the stream--a
river jungle, in which lurk pickerel and trout--with the sensation of
a bird drifting upon soft evening air over the tree-tops. No available
or profitable craft navigate these waters, and animated gentlemen from
the city who run up for "a mouthful of fresh air" cannot possibly
detect the final cause of such a river. Yet the dreaming idler has a
place on maps and a name in history.

Near the town it is crossed by three or four bridges. One is a massive
structure to help the railroad over. The stern, strong pile readily
betrays that it is part of good, solid stock, owned in the right
quarter. Close by it is a little arched stone bridge, auxiliary to a
great road leading to some vague region of the world called Acton upon
guide-posts and on maps. Just beyond these bridges the river bends and
forgets the railroad, but it is grateful to the graceful arch of the
little stone bridge for making its curve more picturesque, and, as it
muses towards the Old Manse, listlessly brushing the lilies, it
wonders if Ellery Channing, who lives beyond, upon a hill-side sloping
to the shore, wrote his poem of "The Bridge" to that particular one.
There are two or three wooden bridges also, always combining well with
the landscape, always making and suggesting pictures.

The Concord, as I said, has a name in history. Near one of the wooden
bridges you turn aside from the main road, close by the Old Mause
--whose mosses of mystic hue were gathered by Hawthorne, who lived
there for three years--and a few steps bring you to the river and to
a small monument upon its brink. It is a narrow, grassy way; not a
field nor a meadow, but of that shape and character which would
perplex the animated stranger from the city, who would see, also, its
unfitness for a building-lot. The narrow, grassy way is the old road,
which in the month of April, 1775, led to a bridge that crossed the
stream at this spot. And upon the river's margin, upon the bridge and
the shore beyond, took place the sharp struggle between the Middlesex
farmers and the scarlet British soldiers known in tradition as
"Concord fight". The small monument records the day and the event.
When it was erected Emerson wrote the following hymn for the ceremony:

APRIL 19, 1836.

 "By the rude bridge that arched the flood,
    Their flag to April's breeze unfurled,
  Here once the embattled farmers stood,
    And fired the shot heard round the world.

 "The foe long since in silence slept;
    Alike the conqueror silent sleeps;
  And Time the ruined bridge has swept
    Down the dark stream that seaward creeps.

 "On this green bank, by this soft stream,
    We see to-day a votive stone,
  That memory may their deed redeem,
    When, like our sires, our sons are gone.

 "Spirit that made these heroes dare
    To die, or leave their children free,
  Bid Time and Nature gently spare
    The shaft we raise to them and Thee."

Close under the rough stone wall at the left, which separates it from
the little grassy orchard of the Manse, is a small mound of turf and a
broken stone. Grave and headstone shrink from sight amid the grass and
under the wall, but they mark the earthly bed of the first victims of
that first fight. A few large trees overhang the ground, which
Hawthorne thinks have been planted since that day, and he says that in
the river he has seen mossy timbers of the old bridge, and on the
farther bank, half hidden, the crumbling stone abutments that
supported it. In an old house upon the main road, nearly opposite the
entrance to this grassy way, I knew a hale old woman who well
remembered the gay advance of the flashing soldiers, the terrible ring
and crack of fire-arms, and the panic-stricken retreat of the
regulars, blackened and bloody. But the placid river has long since
overborne it all. The alarm, the struggle, the retreat, are swallowed
up in its supreme tranquillity. The summers of more than seventy years
have obliterated every trace of the road with thick grass, which seeks
to bury the graves, as earth buried the victims. Let the sweet ministry
of summer avail. Let its mild iteration even sap the monument and conceal
its stones as it hides the abutment in foliage; for, still on the sunny
slopes, white with the May blossoming of apple-orchards, and in the
broad fields, golden to the marge of the river, and tilled in security
and peace, survives the imperishable remembrance of that day and its
results.

The river is thus the main feature of the Concord landscape. It is
surrounded by a wide plain, from which rise only three or four low
hills. One is a wooded cliff over Fairhaven Bay, a mile from the town;
one separates the main river from the Assabeth; and just beyond the
battle-ground one rises, rich with orchards, to a fine wood which
crowns it. The river meadows blend with broad, lonely fields. A wide
horizon, like that of the prairie or the sea, is the grand charm of
Concord. At night the stars are seen from the roads crossing the
plain, as from a ship at sea. The landscape would be called tame by
those who think no scenery grand but that of mountains or the
sea-coast. But the wide solitude of that region is not so accounted by
those who live there. To them it is rich and suggestive, as Emerson
shows, by saying in the essay upon "Nature", "My house stands in low
land, with limited outlook, and on the skirt of the village. But I go
with my friend to the shore of our little river, and with one stroke
of the paddle I leave the village politics and personalities, yes, and
the world of villages and personalities behind, and pass into a
delicate realm of sunset and moonlight, too bright almost for spotted
man to enter without novitiate and probation. We penetrate bodily this
incredible beauty; we dip our hands in this painted element; our eyes
are bathed in these lights and forms. A holiday, a villeggiatura, a
royal-revel, the proudest, most heart-rejoicing festival that valor
and beauty, power and taste ever decked and enjoyed, establishes
itself upon the instant". And again, as indicating where the true
charm of scenery lies: "In every landscape the point to astonishment
is the meeting of the sky and the earth, and that is seen from the
first hillock, as well as from the top of the Alleghanies. The stars
stoop down over the brownest, homeliest common, with all the spiritual
magnificence which they shed on the Campagna or on the marble deserts
of Egypt." He is speaking here, of course, of the spiritual excitement
of Beauty, which crops up everywhere in nature, like gold in a rich
region; but the quality of the imagery indicates the character of the
scenery in which the essay was written.

Concord is too far from Boston to rival in garden cultivation its
neighbors, West Cambridge, Lexington, and Waltham; nor can it boast,
with Brookline, Dorchester, and Cambridge, the handsome summer homes
of city wealth. But it surpasses them all, perhaps, in a genuine
country freshness and feeling, derived from its loneliness. If not
touched by city elegance, neither is it infected by city
meretriciousness; it is sweet, wholesome country. By climbing one of
the hills, your eye sweeps a wide, wide landscape, until it rests upon
graceful Wachuset, or, farther and mistier, Moriadnoc, the lofty
outpost of New Hampshire hills. Level scenery is not tame. The ocean,
the prairie, the desert, are not tame, although of monotonous surface.
The gentle undulations which mark certain scenes--a rippling
landscape, in which all sense of space, of breadth, and of height is
lost--that is tame. It may be made beautiful by exquisite cultivation,
as it often is in England and on parts of the Hudson shores, but it
is, at best, rather pleasing than inspiring. For a permanent view the
eye craves large and simple forms, as the body requires plain food for
its best nourishment.

The town of Concord is built mainly upon one side of the river. In its
centre is a large open square, shaded by fine elms. A white wooden
church, in the most classical style of Yankee-Greek, stands upon the
square. The Court-house is upon one of the corners. In the old
Courthouse, in the days when I knew Concord, many conventions were
held for humane as well as merely political objects. One summer day I
especially remember, when I did not envy Athens its forum, for Emerson
and William Henry Channing spoke. In the speech of both burned the
sacred fire of eloquence, but in Emerson it was light, and in Channing
heat.

From this square diverge four roads, like highways from a forum. One
leads by the Courthouse and under stately sycamores to the Old Manse
and the battle-ground, another goes directly to the river, and a third
is the main avenue of the town. After passing the shops this third
divides, and one branch forms a fair and noble street, spaciously and
loftily arched with elms, the houses standing liberally apart, each
with its garden-plot in front. The fourth avenue is the old Boston
road, also dividing, at the edge of the village, into the direct route
to the metropolis and the Lexington turnpike.

The house of Mr. Emerson stands opposite this junction. It is a plain,
square white dwelling-house, yet it has a city air and could not be
mistaken for a farm-house. A quiet merchant, you would say,
unostentatious and simple, has here hidden himself from town. But a
thick grove of pine and fir trees, almost brushing the two windows
upon the right of the door, and occupying the space between them and
the road, suggests at least a peculiar taste in the retired merchant,
or hints the possibility that he may have sold his place to a poet or
philosopher--or to some old East India sea-captain, perhaps, who
cannot sleep without the sound of waves, and so plants pines to
rustle, surf-like, against his chamber window.

The fact, strangely enough, partly supports your theory. In the year
1828 Charles Coolidge, a brother of J. Templeman Coolidge, a merchant
of repute in Boston and grandson of Joseph Coolidge, a patriarchal
denizen of Bowdoin Square in that city, came to Concord and built this
house. Gratefully remembering the lofty horse-chestnuts which shaded
the city square, and which, perhaps, first inspired him with the wish
to be a nearer neighbor of woods and fields, he planted a row of them
along his lot, which this year ripen their twenty-fifth harvest. With
the liberal hospitality of a New England merchant he did not forget
the spacious cellars of the city, and, as Mr. Emerson writes, "he
built the only good cellar that had then been built in Concord".

Mr. Emerson bought the house in the year 1835. He found it a plain,
convenient, and thoroughly built country residence. An amiable
neighbor of Mr. Coolidge had placed a miserable old barn irregularly
upon the edge of that gentleman's lot, which, for the sake of
comeliness, he was forced to buy and set straight and smooth into a
decent dependence of the mansion house. The estate, upon passing into
Mr. Emerson's hands, comprised the house, barn, and two acres of land.
He has enlarged house and barn, and the two acres have grown to nine.
Our author is no farmer, except as every country gentleman is, yet the
kindly slope from the rear of the house to a little brook, which,
passing to the calm Concord beyond, washes the edge of his land,
yields him at least occasional beans and pease--or some friend,
agriculturally enthusiastic and an original Brook-Farmer, experiments
with guano in the garden, and produces melons and other vines with a
success that relieves Brook Farm from every slur of inadequate
practical genius. Mr. Emerson has shaded his originally bare land with
trees, and counts near a hundred apple and pear trees in his orchard.
The whole estate is quite level, inclining only towards the little
brook, and is well watered and convenient.

The Orphic Alcott--or Plato Skimpole, as Aspasia called him--well
known in the transcendental history of New England, designed and with
his own hands erected a summer-house, which gracefully adorns the
lawn, if I may so call the smooth grass-plot at the side of the house.
Unhappily, this edifice promises no longer duration, not being
"technically based and pointed". This is not a strange, although a
disagreeable fact, to Mr. Emerson, who has been always the most
faithful and appreciative of the lovers of Mr. Alcott. It is natural
that the Orphic Alcott should build graceful summer-houses. There are
even people who declare that he has covered the pleasant but somewhat
misty lawns of ethical speculation with a thousand such edifices,
which need only to be a little more "technically based and pointed" to
be quite perfect. At present they whisper, the wind blows clean
through them, and no figures of flesh and blood are ever seen there,
but only pallid phantoms with large, calm eyes, eating uncooked grain,
out of baskets, and discoursing in a sublime shibboleth of which
mortals have no key. But how could Plato Skimpole, who goes down to
Hingham on the sea, in a New England January, clad only in a suit of
linen, hope to build immortal summer-houses?

Mr. Emerson's library is the room at the right of the door upon
entering the house. It is a simple square room, not walled with books
like the den of a literary grub, nor merely elegant like the
ornamental retreat of a dilettante. The books are arranged upon plain
shelves, not in architectural bookcases, and the room is hung with a
few choice engravings of the greatest men. There was a fair copy of
Michael Angelo's "Fates", which, properly enough, imparted that grave
serenity to the ornament of the room which is always apparent in what
is written there. It is the study of a scholar. All our author's
published writings, the essays, orations, and poems, date from this
room, as much as they date from any place or moment. The villagers,
indeed, fancy their philosophical contemporary affected by the
novelist James's constancy of composition. They relate, with wide
eyes, that he has a huge manuscript book, in which he incessantly
records the ends of thoughts, bits of observation and experience, and
facts of all kinds--a kind of intellectual and scientific ragbag, into
which all shreds and remnants of conversations and reminiscences of
wayside reveries are incontinently thrust. This work goes on, they
aver, day and night, and when he travels the rag-bag travels too, and
grows more plethoric with each mile of the journey. And a story, which
will one day be a tradition, is perpetuated in the village, that one
night, before his wife had become completely accustomed to his habits,
she awoke suddenly, and hearing him groping about the room, inquired
anxiously,

"My dear, are you unwell?"

"No, my love, only an idea."

The library is not only the study of a scholar, it is the bower of a
poet. The pines lean against the windows, and to the student deeply
sunk in learned lore or soaring upon the daring speculations of an
intrepid philosophy, they whisper a secret beyond that of the
philosopher's stone, and sing of the springs of poetry.

The site of the house is not memorable. There is no reasonable ground
to suppose that so much as an Indian wigwam ever occupied the spot;
nor has Henry Thoreau, a very faithful friend of Mr. Emerson's and of
the woods and waters of his native Concord, ever found an Indian
arrowhead upon the premises. Henry Thoreau's instinct is as sure
towards the facts of nature as the witch-hazel towards treasure. If
every quiet country town in New England had a son who, with a lore
like Selborne's and an eye like Buffon's, had watched and studied its
landscape and history, and then published the result, as Thoreau has
done, in a book as redolent of genuine and perceptive sympathy with
nature as a clover-field of honey, New England would seem as poetic
and beautiful as Greece. Thoreau lives in the berry pastures upon a
bank over Walden Pond, and in a little house of his own building. One
pleasant summer afternoon a small party of us helped him raise it--a
bit of life as Arcadian as any at Brook Farm. Elsewhere in the village
he turns up arrowheads abundantly, and Hawthorne mentions that Thoreau
initiated him into the mystery of finding them. But neither the Indians
nor nature nor Thoreau can invest the quiet residence of our author with
the dignity or even the suspicion of a legend. History stops short in
that direction with Charles Coolidge, Esq., and the year 1828.

There is little prospect from the house. Directly opposite a low bluff
overhangs the Boston road and obstructs the view. Upon the other sides
the level land stretches away. Towards Lexington it is a broad,
half-marshy region, and between the brook behind and the river good
farms lie upon the outskirts of the town. Pilgrims drawn to Concord by
the desire of conversing with the man whose written or spoken eloquence
has so profoundly charmed them, and who have placed him in some pavilion
of fancy, some peculiar residence, find him in no porch of philosophy
nor academic grove, but in a plain white house by the wayside, ready to
entertain every comer as an ambassador from some remote Cathay of
speculation whence the stars are more nearly seen. But the familiar
reader of our author will not be surprised to find the "walking
eye-ball" simply sheltered, and the "endless experimenter with no past
at my back" housed without ornament. Such a reader will have felt the
Spartan severity of this intellect, and have noticed that the realm of
this imagination is rather sculpturesque than pictorial, more Greek
than Italian. Therefore he will be pleased to alight at the little
gate, and hear the breezy welcome of the pines and the no less cordial
salutation of their owner. For if the visitor knows what he is about,
he has come to this plain for bracing mountain air. These serious
Concord reaches are no vale of Cashmere. Where Plato Skimpole is
architect of the summer-house, you may imagine what is to be expected
in the mansion itself. It is always morning within those doors. If you
have nothing to say, if you are really not an envoy from some kingdom
or colony of thought and cannot cast a gem upon the heaped pile, you
had better pass by upon the other side. For it is the peculiarity of
Emerson's mind to be always on the alert. He eats no lotus, but
for-ever quaffs the waters which engender immortal thirst.

If the memorabilia of his house could find their proper Xenophon, the
want of antecedent arrowheads upon the premises would not prove very
disastrous to the interest of the history. The fame of the philosopher
attracts admiring friends and enthusiasts from every quarter, and the
scholarly grace and urbane hospitality of the gentleman send them
charmed away. Friendly foes, who altogether differ from Emerson, come
to break a lance with him upon the level pastures of Concord, with all
the cheerful and appreciative zeal of those who longed

 "To drink delight of battle with their peers
  Far on the ringing plains of windy Troy."

It is not hazardous to say that the greatest questions of our day and
of all days have been nowhere more amply discussed, with more poetic
insight or profound conviction, than in the comely, square white house
upon the edge of the Lexington turnpike. There have even been attempts
at something more formal and club-like than the chance conversations
of occasional guests, one of which will certainly be nowhere recorded
but upon these pages.

It was in the year 1845 that a circle of persons of various ages, and
differing very much in everything but sympathy, found themselves in
Concord. Towards the end of the autumn Mr. Emerson suggested that they
should meet every Monday evening through the winter in his library.
"Monsieur Aubepine", "Miles Coverdale", and other phantoms, since
generally known as Nathaniel Hawthorne, who then occupied the Old
Manse; the inflexible Henry Thoreau, a scholastic and pastoral Orson,
then living among the blackberry pastures of Walden Pond; Plato
Skimpole, then sublimely meditating impossible summer-houses in a
little house upon the Boston road; the enthusiastic agriculturist and
Brook-Farmer already mentioned, then an inmate of Mr. Emerson's house,
who added the genial cultivation of a scholar to the amenities of the
natural gentleman; a sturdy farmer neighbor, who had bravely fought
his weary way through inherited embarrassments to the small success of
a New England husbandman, and whose faithful wife had seven times
merited well of her country; two city youths, ready for the fragments
from the feast of wit and wisdom; and the host himself, composed this
club. Ellery Channing, who had that winter harnessed his Pegasus to
the New York _Tribune_, was a kind of corresponding member. The news
of this world was to be transmitted through his eminently practical
genius, as the club deemed itself competent to take charge of tidings
from all other spheres.

I went, the first Monday evening, very much as Ixion may have gone to
his banquet. The philosophers sat dignified and erect. There was a
constrained but very amiable silence, which had the impertinence of a
tacit inquiry, seeming to ask, "Who will now proceed to say the finest
thing that has ever been said?" It was quite involuntary and
unavoidable, for the members lacked that fluent social genius without
which a club is impossible. It was a congress of oracles on the one
hand, and of curious listeners upon the other. I vaguely remember that
the Orphic Alcott invaded the Sahara of silence with a solemn "saying",
to which, after due pause, the honorable member for blackberry pastures
responded by some keen and graphic observation; while the Olympian host,
anxious that so much good material should be spun into something, beamed
smiling encouragement upon all parties. But the conversation became more
and more staccato. Miles Coverdale, a statue of night and silence, sat,
a little removed, under a portrait of Dante, gazing imperturbably upon
the group; and as he sat in the shadow, his dark hair and eyes and suit
of sables made him, in that society, the black thread of mystery which
he weaves into his stories, while the shifting presence of the
Brook-Farmer played like heat-lightning around the room.

I recall little else but a grave eating of russet apples by the erect
philosophers, and a solemn disappearance into night. The club struggled
through three Monday evenings. Plato was perpetually putting apples of
gold in pictures of silver; for such was the rich ore of his thoughts,
coined by the deep melody of his voice. Orson charmed us with the
secrets won from his interviews with Pan in the Walden woods; while
Emerson, with the zeal of an engineer trying to dam wild waters, sought
to bind the wide-flying embroidery of discourse into a web of clear
sweet sense. But still in vain. The oracular sayings were the unalloyed
saccharine element; and every chemist knows how much else goes to
practical food--how much coarse, rough, woody fibre is essential. The
club struggled on valiantly, discoursing celestially, eating apples,
and disappearing in the dark, until the third evening it vanished
altogether. But I have since known clubs of fifty times its number,
whose collective genius was not more than that of either one of the
Dii Majores of our Concord coterie. The fault was its too great
concentration. It was not relaxation, as a club should be, but tension.
Society is a play, a game, a tournament; not a battle. It is the easy
grace of undress; not an intellectual full-dress parade.

I have already hinted this unbending intellectual alacrity of our
author. His sport is serious--his humor is earnest. He stands like a
sentinel. His look and manner and habit of thought cry "Who goes
there?" and if he does not hear the countersign, he brings the
intruder to a halt. It is for this surprising fidelity and integrity
that his influence has been so deep and sure and permanent upon the
intellectual life of the young men of New England; and of old England,
too, where, in Manchester, there were regular weekly meetings at which
his works were read. What he said long ago in his preface to the
American edition of Carlyle's _Miscellanies_, that they were papers
which had spoken to the young men of the time "with an emphasis that
hindered them from sleep", is strikingly true of his own writings. His
first slim, anonymous duodecimo, _Nature_, was as fair and fascinating
to the royal young minds who met it in the course of their reading, as
Egeria to Numa wandering in the grove. The essays, orations, and poems
followed, developing and elaborating the same spiritual and heroic
philosophy, applying it to life, history, and literature, with a vigor
and richness so supreme that not only do many account him our truest
philosopher, but others acknowledge him as our most characteristic poet.

It would be a curious inquiry how much and what kind of influence the
placid scenery of Concord has exercised upon his mind. "I chide
society, I embrace solitude," he says; "and yet I am not so ungrateful
as not to see the wise, the lovely, and the noble-minded, as from time
to time they pass my gate." It is not difficult to understand his
fondness for the spot. He has been always familiar with it, always
more or less a resident of the village. Born in Boston upon the spot
where the Chauncey Place Church now stands, part of his youth was
passed in the Old Manse, which was built by his grandfather and in
which his father was born; and there he wrote _Nature_. From the
magnificent admiration of ancestral England he was glad to return two
years since to quiet Concord and to acres which will not yield a
single arrowhead. The Swiss sigh for their mountains; but the Nubians,
also, pine for their desert plains. Those who are born by the sea long
annually to return and to rest their eyes upon its living horizon. Is
it because the earliest impressions, made when the mind is most
plastic, are most durable? or because youth is that golden age
bounding the confines of memory and floating forever--an alluring
mirage as we recede farther from it?

The imagination of the man who roams the solitary pastures of Concord,
or floats, dreaming, down its river, will easily see its landscape
upon Emerson's pages. "That country is fairest," he says, "which is
inhabited by the noblest minds". And although that idler upon the
river may have leaned over the Mediterranean from Genoese and
Neapolitan villas, or have glanced down the steep green valley of
Sicilian Enna, seeking "herself the fairest flower", or walked the
shores where Cleopatra and Helen walked, yet the charm of a landscape
which is felt rather than seen will be imperishable. "Travelling is a
fool's paradise," says Emerson. But he passed its gates to learn that
lesson. His writings, however, have no imported air. If there be
something Oriental in his philosophy and tropical in his imagination,
they have yet the strong flavor of his mother earth--the underived
sweetness of the open Concord sky, and the spacious breadth of the
Concord horizon.




HAWTHORNE


Hawthorne has himself drawn the picture of the Old Manse in Concord.
He has given to it that quiet richness of coloring which ideally
belongs to an old country mansion. It seemed so fitting a residence
for one who loves to explore the twilight of antiquity--and the
gloomier the better--that the visitor, among the felicities of whose
life was included the freedom of the Manse, could not but fancy that
our author's eyes first saw the daylight enchanted by the slumberous
orchard behind the house, or tranquillized into twilight by the
spacious avenue in front. The character of his imagination, and the
golden gloom of its blossoming, completely harmonize with the rusty,
gable-roofed old house upon the river-side, and the reader of his
books would be sure that his boyhood and youth knew no other friends
than the dreaming river and the melancholy meadows and drooping
foliage of its vicinity.

Since the reader, however, would greatly mistake if he fancied this,
in good sooth, the ancestral halls of the Hawthornes--the genuine
Hawthorne-den--he will be glad to save the credit of his fancy by
learning that it was here our author's bridal tour--which commenced in
Boston, then three hours away--ended, and his married life began.
Here, also, his first child was born, and here those sad and silver
mosses accumulated upon his fancy, from which he heaped so soft a bed
for our dreaming. "Between two tall gate-posts of rough hewn stone
(the gate itself having fallen from its hinges at some unknown epoch)
we beheld the gray front of the old parsonage, terminating the vista
of an avenue of black-ash trees." It was a pleasant spring day in the
year 1843, and as they entered the house nosegays of fresh flowers,
arranged by friendly hands, welcomed them to Concord and summer.

The dark-haired man, who led his wife along the avenue that afternoon,
had been recently an officer of the customs in Boston, before which he
had led a solitary life in Salem. Graduated with Longfellow at Bowdoin
College, in Maine, he had lived a hermit in respectable Salem, an
absolute recluse even from his own family, walking out by night and
writing wild tales by day, most of which were burnt in his bachelor
fire, and some of which, in newspapers, magazines, and annuals, led a
wandering, uncertain, and mostly unnoticed life.

Those tales among this class which were attainable he collected into a
small volume, and apprizing the world that they were "twice-told",
sent them forth anew to make their own way, in the year 1841. But he
piped to the world, and it did not sing. He wept to it, and it did not
mourn. The book, however, as all good books do, made its way into
various hearts. Yet the few penetrant minds which recognized a
remarkable power and a method of strange fascination in the stories
did not make the public nor influence the public mind. "I was," he
says in the last edition of these tales, "the most unknown author in
America". Full of glancing wit, of tender satire, of exquisite natural
description, of subtle and strange analysis of human life, darkly
passionate and weird, they yet floated unhailed barks upon the sea of
publicity--unhailed, but laden and gleaming at every crevice with the
true treasure of Cathay. Bancroft, then Collector in Boston, prompt to
recognize and to honor talent, made the dreaming story-teller a
surveyor in the custom-house, thus opening to him a new range of
experience. From the society of phantoms he stepped upon Long Wharf
and plumply confronted Captain Cuttle and Dirk Hatteraick. It was no
less romance to our author. There is no greater error of those who are
called "practical men" than the supposition that life is, or can be,
other than a dream to a dreamer. Shut him up in a counting-room,
barricade him with bales of merchandise, and limit his library to the
ledger and cash-book and his prospect to the neighboring signs; talk
"Bills receivable" and "Sundries Dr. to cash" to him forever, and you
are only a very amusing or very annoying phantom to him. The
merchant-prince might as well hope to make himself a poet, as the poet
a practical or practicable man. He has laws to obey not at all the
less stringent because men of a different temperament refuse to
acknowledge them, and he is held to a loyalty quite beyond their
conception.

So Captain Cuttle and Dirk Hatteraick were as pleasant figures to our
author in the picture of life as any others. He went daily upon the
vessels, looked and listened and learned, was a favorite of the
sailors as such men always are, did his work faithfully, and, having
dreamed his dream upon Long Wharf, was married and slipped up to the
Old Manse and a new chapter in the romance. It opened in "the most
delightful little nook of a study that ever offered its snug seclusion
to a scholar". Of the three years in the Old Manse the prelude to the
_Mosses_ is the most perfect history, and of the quality of those
years the _Mosses_ themselves are sufficient proof. They were mostly
written in the little study, and originally published in the
_Democratic Review_, then edited by Hawthorne's friend O'Sullivan.

To the inhabitants of Concord, however, our author was as much a
phantom and a fable as the old pastor of the parish, dead half a
century before, and whose faded portrait in the attic was gradually
rejoining its original in native dust. The gate, fallen from its
hinges in a remote antiquity, was never rehung. "The wheel-track
leading to the door" remained still overgrown with grass. No bold
villager ever invaded the sleep of "the glimmering shadows" in the
avenue. At evening no lights gleamed from the windows. Scarce once in
many months did the single old knobby-faced coachman at the railroad
bring a fare to "Mr. Hawthorne's". "_Is_ there anybody in the old
house?" sobbed the old ladies in despair, imbibing tea of a livid
green. That knocker, which everybody had enjoyed the right of lifting
to summon the good old pastor, no temerity now dared to touch.
Heavens! what if the figure in the mouldy portrait should peer, in
answer, over the eaves, and shake solemnly its decaying surplice! Nay,
what if the mysterious man himself should answer the summons and come
to the door! It is easy to summon spirits--but if they come?
Collective Concord, moving in the river meadows, embraced the better
part of valor and left the knocker untouched. A cloud of romance
suddenly fell out of the heaven of fancy and enveloped the Old Manse:

 "In among the bearded barley
  The reaper reaping late and early"

did not glance more wistfully towards the island of Shalott and its
mysterious lady than the reapers of Concord rye looked at the Old
Manse and wondered over its inmate.

Sometimes in the forenoon a darkly clad figure was seen in the little
garden-plot putting in corn or melon seed, and gravely hoeing. It was
a brief apparition. The farmer passing towards town and seeing the
solitary cultivator, lost his faith in the fact and believed he had
dreamed when, upon returning, he saw no sign of life, except,
possibly, upon some Monday, the ghostly skirt of a shirt flapping
spectrally in the distant orchard. Day dawned and darkened over the
lonely house. Summer with "buds and bird-voices" came singing in from
the South, and clad the old ash-trees in deeper green, the Old Manse
in profounder mystery. Gorgeous autumn came to visit the story-teller
in his little western study, and, departing, wept rainbows among his
trees. Winter impatiently swept down the hill opposite, rifling the
trees of each last clinging bit of summer, as if thrusting aside
opposing barriers and determined to search the mystery. But his white
robes floated around the Old Manse, ghostly as the decaying surplice
of the old pastor's portrait, and in the snowy seclusion of winter the
mystery was as mysterious as ever.

Occasionally Emerson or Ellery Channing or Henry Thoreau--some poet,
as once Whittier, journeying to the Merrimac, or an old Brook-Farmer
who remembered Miles Coverdale with Arcadian sympathy--went down the
avenue and disappeared in the house. Sometimes a close observer, had
he been ambushed among the long grasses of the orchard, might have
seen the host and one of his guests emerging at the back door and,
sauntering to the river-side, step into the boat, and float off until
they faded in the shadow. The spectacle would not have lessened the
romance. If it were afternoon--one of the spectrally sunny afternoons
which often bewitch that region--he would be only the more convinced
that there was something inexplicable in the whole matter of this man
whom nobody knew, who was never once seen at town-meeting, and
concerning whom it was whispered that he did not constantly attend
church all day, although he occupied the reverend parsonage of the
village and had unmeasured acres of manuscript sermons in his attic,
besides the nearly extinct portrait of an utterly extinct clergyman.
Mrs. Radcliffe and Monk Lewis were nothing to this, and the
awe-stricken observer, if he could creep safely out of the long grass,
did not fail to do so quietly, fortifying his courage by remembering
stories of the genial humanity of the last old pastor who inhabited
the Manse, and who for fifty years was the bland and beneficent Pope
of Concord. A genial, gracious old man, whose memory is yet sweet in
the village, and who, wedded to the grave traditions of New England
theology, believed of his young relative Waldo Emerson, as Miss Flite,
touching her forehead, said of her landlord, that he was "_m_, quite
_m_", but was proud to love in him the hereditary integrity of noble
ancestors.

This old gentleman--an eminent figure in the history of the Manse and
in all reminiscences of Concord--partook sufficiently of mundane
weaknesses to betray his mortality. Hawthorne describes him watching
the battle of Concord from his study window. But when the uncertainty
of that dark moment had so happily resulted, and the first
battle-ground of the Revolution had become a spot of hallowed and
patriotic consideration, it was a pardonable pride in the good old man
to order his servant, whenever there was company, to assist him in
reaping the glory due to the owner of a spot so sacred. Accordingly,
when some reverend or distinguished guest sat with the pastor in his
little parlor, or, of a summer evening, at the hospitable door under
the trees, Jeremiah or Nicodemus, the cow-boy, would deferentially
approach and inquire,

"Into what pasture shall I turn the cow tonight, sir?"

And the old gentleman would audibly reply:

"Into the battle-field, Nicodemus, into the battle-field."

Then naturally followed wonder, inquiry, a walk in the twilight to the
river-bank, the old gentleman's story, the corresponding respect of
the listening visitor, and the consequent quiet complacency and
harmless satisfaction in the clergyman's bosom. That throb of pride
was the one drop of peculiar advantage which the pastor distilled from
the Revolution. He could not but fancy that he had a hand in so famous
a deed accomplished upon land now his own, and demeaned himself
accordingly with continental dignity.

The pulpit, however, was his especial sphere. There he reigned
supreme; there he exhorted, rebuked, and advised, as in the days of
Mather. There he inspired that profound reverence of which he was so
proud, and which induced the matrons of the village, when he was
coming to make a visit, to bedizen the children in their Sunday suits,
to parade the best teapot, and to offer the most capacious chair. In
the pulpit he delivered everything with the pompous cadence of the
elder New England clergy, and a sly joke is told at the expense of his
even temper, that on one occasion, when loftily reading the hymn, he
encountered a blot upon the page quite obliterating the word; but
without losing the cadence, although in a very vindictive tone at the
truant word, or the culprit who erased it, he finished the reading as
follows:

 "He sits upon His throne above,
    Attending angels bless,
  While Justice, Mercy, Truth--and another word
        which is blotted out--
    Compose His princely dress."

We linger around the Old Manse and its occupants as fondly as
Hawthorne, but no more fondly than all who have been once within the
influence of its spell. There glimmer in my memory a few hazy days, of
a tranquil and half-pensive character, which I am conscious were
passed in and around the house, and their pensiveness I know to be
only that touch of twilight which inhered in the house and all its
associations. Beside the few chance visitors I have named there were
city friends occasionally, figures quite unknown to the village, who
came preceded by the steam-shriek of the locomotive, were dropped at
the gate-posts, and were seen no more. The owner was as much a vague
name to me as to any one.

During Hawthorne's first year's residence in Concord I had driven up
with some friends to an aesthetic tea at Mr. Emerson's. It was in the
winter, and a great wood-fire blazed upon the hospitable hearth. There
were various men and women of note assembled, and I, who listened
attentively to all the fine things that were said, was for some time
scarcely aware of a man who sat upon the edge of the circle, a little
withdrawn, his head slightly thrown forward upon his breast, and his
bright eyes clearly burning under his black brow. As I drifted down
the stream of talk, this person, who sat silent as a shadow, looked to
me as Webster might have looked had he been a poet--a kind of poetic
Webster. He rose and walked to the window, and stood quietly there for
a long time, watching the dead white landscape. No appeal was made to
him, nobody looked after him, the conversation flowed steadily on as
if every one understood that his silence was to be respected. It was
the same thing at table. In vain the silent man imbibed aesthetic tea.
Whatever fancies it inspired did not flower at his lips. But there was
a light in his eye which assured me that nothing was lost. So supreme
was his silence that it presently engrossed me to the exclusion of
everything else. There was very brilliant discourse, but this silence
was much more poetic and fascinating. Fine things were said by the
philosophers, but much finer things were implied by the dumbness of
this gentleman with heavy brows and black hair. When he presently
rose and went, Emerson, with the "slow, wise smile" that breaks over
his face, like day over the sky, said, "Hawthorne rides well his horse
of the night."

Thus he remained in my memory, a shadow, a phantom, until more than a
year afterwards. Then I came to live in Concord. Every day I passed
his house, but when the villagers, thinking that perhaps I had some
clew to the mystery, said, "Do you know this Mr. Hawthorne?" I said
"No," and trusted to time.

Time justified my confidence, and one day I, too, went down the avenue
and disappeared in the house. I mounted those mysterious stairs to
that apocryphal study. I saw "the cheerful coat of paint, and
golden-tinted paper-hangings, lighting up the small apartment; while
the shadow of a willow-tree, that swept against the overhanging eaves,
attempered the cheery western sunshine." I looked from the little
northern window whence the old pastor watched the battle, and in the
small dining-room beneath it, upon the first floor, there were

  "Dainty chicken, snow-white bread,"

and the golden juices of Italian vineyards, which still feast
insatiable memory.

Our author occupied the Old Manse for three years. During that time he
was not seen, probably, by more than a dozen of the villagers. His
walks could easily avoid the town, and upon the river he was always
sure of solitude. It was his favorite habit to bathe every evening in
the river, after nightfall, and in that part of it over which the old
bridge stood, at which the battle was fought. Sometimes, but rarely,
his boat accompanied another up the stream, and I recall the silent
and preternatural vigor with which, on one occasion, he wielded his
paddle to counteract the bad rowing of a friend who conscientiously
considered it his duty to do something and not let Hawthorne work
alone; but who, with every stroke, neutralized all Hawthorne's
efforts. I suppose he would have struggled until he fell senseless,
rather than ask his friend to desist. His principle seemed to be, if a
man cannot understand without talking to him, it is quite useless to
talk, because it is immaterial whether such a man understands or not.
His own sympathy was so broad and sure that although nothing had been
said for hours his companion knew that not a thing had escaped his
eye, nor had a single pulse of beauty in the day or scene or society
failed to thrill his heart. In this way his silence was most social.
Everything seemed to have been said. It was a Barmecide feast of
discourse, from which a greater satisfaction resulted than from an
actual banquet.

When a formal attempt was made to desert this style of conversation,
the result was ludicrous. Once Emerson and Thoreau arrived to pay a
call. They were shown into the little parlor upon the avenue, and
Hawthorne presently entered. Each of the guests sat upright in his
chair like a Roman senator. "To them" Hawthorne, like a Dacian king.
The call went on, but in a most melancholy manner. The host sat
perfectly still, or occasionally propounded a question which Thoreau
answered accurately, and there the thread broke short off. Emerson
delivered sentences that only needed the setting of an essay to charm
the world; but the whole visit was a vague ghost of the Monday-evening
club at Mr. Emerson's--it was a great failure. Had they all been lying
idly upon the river brink, or strolling in Thoreau's blackberry
pastures, the result would have been utterly different. But imprisoned
in the proprieties of a parlor, each a wild man in his way, with a
necessity of talking inherent in the nature of the occasion, there was
only a waste of treasure. This was the only "call" in which I ever
knew Hawthorne to be involved.

In Mr. Emerson's house, I said, it seemed always morning. But
Hawthorne's black-ash trees and scraggy apple-boughs shaded

                           "a land
  In which it seemed always afternoon."

I do not doubt that the lotus grew along the grassy marge of the
Concord behind his house, and it was served, subtly concealed, to all
his guests. The house, its inmates, and its life lay, dream-like, upon
the edge of the little village. You fancied that they all came
together and belonged together, and were glad that at length some idol
of your imagination, some poet whose spell had held you and would hold
you forever, was housed as such a poet should be.

During the lapse of the three years since the bridal tour of twenty
miles ended at the "two tall gate-posts of rough-hewn stone", a little
wicker wagon had appeared at intervals upon the avenue, and a placid
babe, whose eyes the soft Concord day had touched with the blue of its
beauty, lay looking tranquilly up at the grave old trees, which sighed
lofty lullabies over her sleep. The tranquillity of the golden-haired
Una was the living and breathing type of the dreamy life of the Old
Manse. Perhaps, that being attained, it was as well to go. Perhaps our
author was not surprised nor displeased when the hints came, "growing
more and more distinct, that the owner of the old house was pining for
his native air". One afternoon I entered the study, and learned from
its occupant that the last story he should ever write there was
written. The son of the old pastor yearned for his homestead. The
light of another summer would seek its poet in the Old Manse, but in
vain.

While Hawthorne had been quietly writing in the "most delightful
little nook of a study", Mr. Polk had been elected President, and Mr.
Bancroft, in the cabinet, did not forget his old friend, the surveyor
in the custom-house. There came suggestions and offers of various
attractions. Still loving New England, would he tarry there, or, as
inspector of woods and forests in some far-away island of the southern
sea, some hazy strip of distance seen from Florida, would he taste the
tropics? He meditated all the chances, without immediately deciding.
Gathering up his household gods, he passed out of the Old Manse as its
heir entered, and before the end of summer was domesticated in the
custom-house of his native town of Salem. This was in the year 1846.
Upon leaving the Old Manse he published the _Mosses_, announcing that
it was the last collection of tales he should put forth. Those who
knew him and recognized his value to our literature trembled lest this
was the last word from one who spoke only pearls and rubies. It was a
foolish fear. The sun must shine, the sea must roll, the bird must
sing, and the poet write. During his life in Salem, of which the
introduction to _The Scarlet Letter_ describes the official aspect, he
wrote that romance. It is inspired by the spirit of the place. It
presents more vividly than any history the gloomy picturesqueness of
early New England life. There is no strain in our literature so
characteristic or more real than that which Hawthorne had successfully
attempted in several of his earlier sketches, and of which _The
Scarlet Letter_ is the great triumph. It became immediately popular,
and directly placed the writer of stories for a small circle among the
world's masters of romance.

Times meanwhile changed, and presidents with them. General Taylor was
elected, and the Salem collector retired. It is one of the romantic
points of Hawthorne's quiet life that its changes have been so
frequently determined by political events, which, more than all others,
are the most entirely foreign to his tastes and habits. He retired to
the hills of Berkshire, the eye of the world now regarding his movements.
There he lived a year or two in a little red cottage upon the
"Stockbridge Bowl", as a small lake near that town is called. In this
retreat he wrote _The House of the Seven Gables_, which more deeply
confirmed the literary position already acquired for him by the first
romance. The scene is laid in Salem, as if he could not escape a strange
fascination in the witch-haunted town of our early history. It is the
same black canvas upon which plays the rainbow-flash of his fancy, never,
in its brightest moment, more than illuminating the gloom. This marks
all his writings. They have a terrible beauty, like the siren, and their
fascination is as sure.

After six years of absence Hawthorne returned to Concord, where he
purchased a small house formerly occupied by Orphic Alcott. When that
philosopher came into possession it was a miserable little house of
two peaked gables. But the genius which recreated itself in devising
graceful summer-houses, like that for Mr. Emerson, already noticed,
soon smoothed the new residence into some kind of comeliness. It was
an old house when Mr. Alcott entered it, but his tasteful finger
touched it with picturesque grace.

Not like a tired old drudge of a house, rusting into unlionored decay,
but with a modest freshness that does not belie the innate sobriety of
a venerable New England farm-house, the present residence of our
author stands, withdrawn a few yards from the high-road to Boston,
along which marched the British soldiers to Concord bridge. It lies at
the foot of a wooded hill, a neat house of a "rusty olive hue", with a
porch in front, and a central peak, and a piazza at each end. The
genius for summer-houses has had full play upon the hill behind. Here,
upon the homely steppes of Concord, is a strain of Persia. Mr. Alcott
built terraces and arbors and pavilions of boughs and rough stems of
trees, revealing--somewhat inadequately, perhaps--the hanging gardens
of delight that adorn the Babylon of his orphic imagination. The
hill-side is no unapt emblem of his intellectual habit, which
garnishes the arid commonplaces of life with a cold poetic aurora,
forgetting that it is the inexorable law of light to deform as well as
adorn. Treating life as a grand epic poem, the philosophic Alcott
forgets that Homer must nod or we should all fall asleep. The world
would not be very beautiful nor interesting if it were all one huge
summit of Mont Blanc.

Unhappily, the terraced hill-side, like the summer-house upon Mr.
Emerson's lawn, "lacks technical arrangement", and the wild winds play
with these architectural toys of fancy, like lions with humming-birds.
They are gradually falling, shattered, and disappearing. Fine
locust-trees shade them and ornament the hill with perennial beauty.
The hanging gardens of Semiramis were not more fragrant than
Hawthorne's hill-side during the June blossoming of the locusts. A few
young elms, some white-pines and young oaks, complete the catalogue of
trees. A light breeze constantly fans the brow of the hill, making
harps of the tree-tops and singing to our author, who, "with a book in
my hand, or an unwritten book in my thoughts", lies stretched beneath
them in the shade.

From the height of the hill the eye courses, unrestrained, over the
solitary landscape of Concord, broad and still, broken only by the
slight wooded undulations of insignificant hillocks. The river is not
visible, nor any gleam of lake. Walden Pond is just behind the wood in
front, and not far away over the meadows sluggishly steals the river.
It is the most quiet of prospects. Eight acres of good land lie in
front of the house, across the road, and in the rear the estate
extends a little distance over the brow of the hill.

This latter is not good garden-ground, but it yields that other crop
which the poet "gathers in a song". Perhaps the world will forgive our
author that he is not a prize farmer, and makes but an indifferent
figure at the annual cattle-show. We have seen that he is more nomadic
than agricultural. He has wandered from spot to spot, pitching a
temporary tent, then striking it for "fresh fields and pastures new".
It is natural, therefore, that he should call his house "The
Wayside"--a bench upon the road where he sits for a while before
passing on. If the wayfarer finds him upon that bench he shall have
rare pleasure in sitting with him, yet shudder while he stays. For the
pictures of our poet have more than the shadows of Rembrandt. If you
listen to his story, the lonely pastures and dull towns of our dear
old homely New England shall become suddenly as radiant with grace and
terrible with tragedy as any country and any time. The waning
afternoon in Concord, in which the blue-frocked farmers are reaping
and hoeing, shall set in pensive glory. The woods will forever after
be haunted with strange forms. You will hear whispers and music "i'
the air". In the softest morning you will suspect sadness; in the most
fervent noon a nameless terror. It is because the imagination of our
author treads the almost imperceptible line between the natural and
the supernatural. We are all conscious of striking it sometimes. But
we avoid it. We recoil and hurry away, nor dare to glance over our
shoulders lest we should see phantoms. What are these tales of
supernatural appearances, as well authenticated as any news of the
day--and what is the sphere which they imply? What is the more subtle
intellectual apprehension of fate and its influence upon imagination
and life? Whatever it is, it is the mystery of the fascination of
these tales. They converse with that dreadful realm as with our real
world. The light of our sun is poured by genius upon the phantoms we
did not dare to contemplate, and lo! they are ourselves, unmasked, and
playing our many parts. An unutterable sadness seizes the reader as
the inevitable black thread appears. For here genius assures us what
we trembled to suspect, but could not avoid suspecting, that the black
thread is inwoven with all forms of life, with all development of
character.

It is for this peculiarity, which harmonizes so well with ancient
places, whose pensive silence seems the trance of memory musing over
the young and lovely life that illuminated its lost years--that
Hawthorne is so intimately associated with the Old Manse. Yet that was
but the tent of a night for him. Already, with the _Blithedale
Romance_, which is dated from Concord, a new interest begins to
cluster around "The Wayside".

I know not how I can more fitly conclude these reminiscences of
Concord and Hawthorne, whose own stories have always a saddening
close, than by relating an occurrence which blighted to many hearts
the beauty of the quiet Concord river, and seemed not inconsistent
with its lonely landscape. It has the further fitness of typifying the
operation of our author's imagination: a tranquil stream, clear and
bright with sunny gleams, crowned with lilies and graceful with
swaying grass, yet doing terrible deeds inexorably, and therefore
forever after of a shadowed beauty.

Martha was the daughter of a plain Concord farmer, a girl of delicate
and shy temperament, who excelled so much in study that she was sent
to a fine academy in a neighboring town, and won all the honors of the
course. She met at the school, and in the society of the place, a
refinement and cultivation, a social gayety and grace, which were
entirely unknown in the hard life she had led at home, and which by
their very novelty, as well as because they harmonized with her own
nature and dreams, were doubly beautiful and fascinating. She enjoyed
this life to the full, while her timidity kept her only a spectator;
and she ornamented it with a fresher grace, suggestive of the woods
and fields, when she ventured to engage in the airy game. It was a
sphere for her capacities and talents. She shone in it, and the
consciousness of a true position and general appreciation gave her the
full use of all her powers. She admired and was admired. She was
surrounded by gratifications of taste, by the stimulants and rewards
of ambition. The world was happy, and she was worthy to live in it.
But at times a cloud suddenly dashed athwart the sun--a shadow stole,
dark and chill, to the very edge of the charmed circle in which she
stood. She knew well what it was and what it foretold, but she would
not pause nor heed. The sun shone again; the future smiled; youth,
beauty, and all gentle hopes and thoughts bathed the moment in lambent
light.

But school-days ended at last, and with the receding town in which
they had been passed the bright days of life disappeared, and forever.
It is probable that the girl's fancy had been fed, perhaps indiscreetly
pampered, by her experience there. But it was no fairy-land. It was an
academy town in New England, and the fact that it was so alluring is a
fair indication of the kind of life from which she had emerged, and to
which she now returned. What could she do? In the dreary round of petty
details, in the incessant drudgery of a poor farmer's household, with
no companions of any sympathy--for the family of a hard-working New
England farmer are not the Chloes and Clarissas of pastoral poetry, nor
are cow-boys Corydons--with no opportunity of retirement and cultivation,
for reading and studying--which is always voted "stuff" under such
circumstances--the light suddenly quenched out of life, what was she
to do?

"Adapt herself to her circumstances. Why had she shot from her sphere
in this silly way?" demands unanimous common-sense in valiant heroics.

The simple answer is, that she had only used all her opportunities,
and that, although it was no fault of hers that the routine of her
life was in every way repulsive, she did struggle to accommodate
herself to it--and failed. When she found it impossible to drag on at
home, she became an inmate of a refined and cultivated household in
the village, where she had opportunity to follow her own fancies, and
to associate with educated and attractive persons. But even here she
could not escape the feeling that it was all temporary, that her
position was one of dependence; and her pride, now grown morbid, often
drove her from the very society which alone was agreeable to her. This
was all genuine. There was not the slightest strain of the _femme
incomprise_ in her demeanor. She was always shy and silent, with a
touching reserve which won interest and confidence, but left also a
vague sadness in the mind of the observer. After a few months she made
another effort to rend the cloud which was gradually darkening around
her, and opened a school for young children. But although the interest
of friends secured for her a partial success, her gravity and sadness
failed to excite the sympathy of her pupils, who missed in her the
playful gayety always most winning to children. Martha, however,
pushed bravely on, a figure of tragic sobriety to all who watched her
course. The farmers thought her a strange girl, and wondered at the
ways of a farmer's daughter who was not content to milk cows and churn
butter and fry pork, without further hope or thought. The good
clergyman of the town, interested in her situation, sought a
confidence she did not care to bestow, and so, doling out a, b, c, to
a wild group of boys and girls, she found that she could not untie the
Gordian knot of her life, and felt, with terror, that it must be cut.

One summer evening she left her father's house and walked into the
fields alone. Night came, but Martha did not return. The family became
anxious, inquired if any one had noticed the direction in which she
went, learned from the neighbors that she was not visiting, that there
was no lecture or meeting to detain her, and wonder passed into
apprehension. Neighbors went into the adjacent woods and called, but
received no answer. Every instant the awful shadow of some dread event
solemnized the gathering groups. Every one thought what no one dared
whisper, until a low voice suggested "the river". Then, with the
swiftness of certainty, all friends, far and near, were roused, and
thronged along the banks of the stream. Torches flashed in boats that
put off in the terrible search. Hawthorne, then living in the Old
Manse, was summoned, and the man whom the villagers had only seen at
morning as a musing spectre in his garden, now appeared among them at
night to devote his strong arm and steady heart to their service. The
boats drifted slowly down the stream--the torches flared strangely
upon the black repose of the water, and upon the long, slim grasses
that, weeping, fringed the marge. Upon both banks silent and
awe-stricken crowds hastened along, eager and dreading to find the
slightest trace of what they sought. Suddenly they came upon a few
articles of dress, heavy with the night-dew. No one spoke, for no one
had doubted the result. It was clear that Martha had strayed to the
river and quietly asked of its stillness the repose she sought. The
boats gathered around the spot. With every implement that could be of
service the melancholy search began. Long intervals of fearful silence
ensued, but at length, towards midnight, the sweet face of the dead
girl was raised more placidly to the stars than ever it had been to
the sun.

 "Oh! is it weed or fish or floating hair--
  A tress o' golden hair,
  O' drowned maiden's hair,
    Above the nets at sea?
  Was never salmon yet that shone so fair
    Among the stakes on Dee."

So ended a village tragedy. The reader may possibly find in it the
original of the thrilling conclusion of the _Blithedale Romance_, and
learn anew that dark as is the thread with which Hawthorne weaves his
spells, it is no darker than those with which tragedies are spun, even
in regions apparently so torpid as Concord.




THE WORKS OF NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE


The traveller by the Eastern Railroad, from Boston, reaches in less
than an hour the old town of Salem, Massachusetts. It is chiefly
composed of plain wooden houses, but it has a quaint air of past
provincial grandeur, and has indeed been an important commercial town.
The first American ship for Calcutta and China sailed from this port;
and Salem ships opened our trade with New Holland and the South Seas.
But its glory has long since departed, with that of its stately and
respectable neighbors, Newburyport and Portsmouth. There is still,
however, a custom-house in Salem, there are wharves and chandlers'
shops and a faint show of shipping and an air of marine capacity which
no apparent result justifies. It sits upon the shore like an
antiquated sea-captain, grave and silent, in tarpaulin and duck
trousers, idly watching the ocean upon which he will never sail again.

But this touching aspect of age and lost prosperity merely serves to
deepen the peculiar impression of the old city, which is not derived
from its former commercial importance, but from other associations.
Salem village was a famous place in the Puritan annals. The tragedy of
the witchcraft tortures and murders has cast upon it a ghostly spell,
from which it seems never to have escaped; and even the sojourner of
to-day, as he loiters along the shore in the sunniest morning of June,
will sometimes feel an icy breath in the air, chilling the very marrow
of his bones. Nor is he consoled by being told that it is only the
east wind; for he cannot help believing that an invisible host of
Puritan spectres have breathed upon him, revengeful, as he poached
upon their ancient haunts.

The Puritan spirit was neither gracious nor lovely, but nothing softer
than its iron hand could have done its necessary work. The Puritan
character was narrow, intolerant, and exasperating. The forefathers
were very "sour" in the estimation of Morton and his merry company at
Mount Wollaston. But for all that, Bradstreet and Carver and Winthrop
were better forefathers than the gay Morton, and the Puritan spirit is
doubtless the moral influence of modern civilization, both in Old and
New England. By the fruit let the seed be judged. The State to whose
rough coast the _Mayflower_ came, and in which the Pilgrim spirit has
been most active, is to-day the chief of all human societies,
politically, morally, and socially. It is the community in which the
average of well-being is higher than in any State we know in history.
Puritan though it be, it is more truly liberal and free than any large
community in the world. But it had bleak beginnings. The icy shore,
the sombre pines, the stealthy savages, the hard soil, the unbending
religious austerity, the Scriptural severity, the arrogant virtues,
the angry intolerance of contradiction--they all made a narrow strip
of sad civilization between the pitiless sea and the remorseless
forests. The moral and physical tenacity which is wrestling with the
Rebellion was toughened among these flinty and forbidding rocks. The
fig, the pomegranate, and the almond would not grow there, nor the
nightingale sing; but nobler men than its children the sun never shone
upon, nor has the heart of man heard sweeter music than the voices of
James Otis and Samuel Adams. Think of Plymouth in 1620, and of
Massachusetts to-day! Out of strength came forth sweetness.

With some of the darkest passages in Puritan history this old town of
Salem, which dozes apparently with the most peaceful conscience in the
world, is identified, and while its Fourth of July bells were joyfully
ringing sixty years ago Nathaniel Hathorne was born. He subsequently
chose to write the name Hawthorne, because he thought he had
discovered that it was the original spelling. In the introduction to
_The Scarlet Letter_, Hawthorne speaks of his ancestors as coming from
Europe in the seventeenth century, and establishing themselves in
Salem, where they served the State and propitiated Heaven by joining
in the persecution of Quakers and witches. The house known as the
Witch House is still standing on the corner of Summer and Essex
streets. It was built in 1642 by Captain George Corwin, and here in
1692 many of the unfortunates who were palpably guilty of age and
ugliness were examined by the Honorable Jonathan Curwin, Major Gedney,
Captain John Higginson, and John Hathorn, Esquire.

The name of this last worthy occurs in one of the first and most
famous of the witch trials, that of "Goodwife Gory", in March, 1692,
only a month after the beginning of the delusion at the house of the
minister Parris. Goodwife Gory was accused by ten children, of whom
Elizabeth Parris was one; they declared that they were pinched by her
and strangled, and that she brought them a book to sign. "Mr. Hathorn,
a magistrate of Salem", says Robert Calef, in _More Wonders of the
Invisible World_, "asked her why she afflicted these children. She
said she did not afflict them. He asked her who did then. She said, I
do not know; how should I know? She said they were poor, distracted
creatures, and no heed ought to be given to what they said. Mr.
Hathorn and Mr. Noyes replied, that it was the judgment of all that
were there present that they were bewitched, and only she (the
accused) said they were distracted. She was accused by them that the
_black man_ whispered to her in her ear now (while she was upon
examination), and that she had a yellow bird that did use to suck
between her fingers, and that the said bird did suck now in the
assembly." John Hathorn and Jonathan Curwin were "the Assistants" of
Salem village, and held most of the examinations and issued the
warrants. Justice Hathorn was very swift in judgment, holding every
accused person guilty in every particular. When poor Jonathan Gary of
Charlestown attended his wife charged with witchcraft before Justice
Hathorn, he requested that he might hold one of her hands, "but it was
denied me. Then she desired me to wipe the tears from her eyes and the
sweat from her face, which I did; then she desired that she might lean
herself on me, saying she should faint. Justice Hathorn replied, she
had strength enough to torment these persons, and she should have
strength enough to stand. I speaking something against their cruel
proceedings, they commanded me to be silent, or else I should be
turned out of the room". What a piteous picture of the awful colonial
inquisition and the village Torquemada! What a grim portrait of an
ancestor to hang in your memory, and to trace your kindred to!

Hawthorne's description of his ancestors in the Introduction to _The
Scarlet Letter_ is very delightful. As their representative, he
declares that he takes shame to himself for their sake, on account of
these relentless persecutions; but he thinks them earnest and
energetic. "From father to son, for above a hundred years, they
followed the sea; a gray-headed ship-master, in each generation,
retiring from the quarter-deck to the homestead, while a boy of
fourteen took the hereditary place before the mast, confronting the
salt spray and the gale, which had blustered against his sire and
grand-sire. The boy also, in due time, passed from the forecastle to
the cabin, spent a tempestuous manhood, and returned from his
world-wanderings, to grow old, and die, and mingle his dust with the
natal earth." Not all, however, for the last of the line of sailors,
Captain Nathaniel Hathorne, who married Elizabeth Clarke Manning, died
at Calcutta after the birth of three children, a boy and two girls.
The house in which the boy was born is still standing upon Union
Street, which leads to the Long Wharf, the chief seat of the old
foreign trade of Salem. The next house, with a back entrance on Union
Street, is the Manning house, where many years of the young
Hawthorne's life were spent in the care of his uncle, Robert Manning.
He lived often upon an estate belonging to his mother's family, in the
town of Raymond, near Sebago Lake, in Maine. The huge house there was
called Manning's Folly, and is now said to be used as a meeting-house.
His uncle sent Hawthorne to Bowdoin College, where he graduated in
1825. A correspondent of the Boston _Daily Advertiser_, writing from
Bowdoin at the late commencement, says that he had recently found "in
an old drawer" some papers which proved to be the manuscript "parts"
of the students at the Junior exhibition of 1824; among them was
Hawthorne's "De Patribus Conscriptis Romanorum". "It is quite brief,"
writes the correspondent, "but is really curious as perhaps the only
college exercise in existence of the great tragic writer of our day
(has there been a greater since Shakespeare?). The last sentence is as
follows (note the words which I put in italics): 'Augustus equidem
antiquam magnificentiam patribus reddidit, _sed fulgor tantum fuit
sine fervore_. Nunquam in republica senatoribus potestas recuperata,
postremum species etiam amissa est.' On the same occasion Longfellow had
the salutatory oration in Latin--'Oratio Latina; Anglici Poetae.'"

Hawthorne has given us a charming glimpse of himself as a college boy
in the letter to his fellow-student, Horatio Bridge, of the Navy,
whose _Journal of an African Cruiser_ he afterwards edited. "I know
not whence your faith came; but while we were lads together at a
country college, gathering blueberries, in study-hours, under those
tall academic pines; or watching the great logs as they tumbled along
the current of the Androscoggin; or shooting pigeons and gray
squirrels in the woods; or bat-fowling in the summer twilight; or
catching trouts in that shadowy little stream which, I suppose, is
still wandering riverward through the forest--though you and I will
never cast a line in it again--two idle lads, in short (as we need not
fear to acknowledge now), doing a hundred things that the faculty
never heard of, or else it had been the worse for us,--still it was
your prognostic of your friend's destiny that he was to be a writer of
fiction." From this sylvan university Hawthorne came home to Salem;
"as if," he wrote later, "Salem were for me the inevitable centre of
the universe."

The old witch-hanging city had no weirder product than this
dark-haired son. He has certainly given it an interest which it must
otherwise have lacked; but he speaks of it with small affection,
considering that his family had lived there for two centuries. "An
unjoyous attachment," he calls it. And, to tell the truth, there was
evidently little love lost between the little city and its most famous
citizen. Stories still float in the social gossip of the town, which
represent the shy author as inaccessible to all invitations to dinner
and tea; and while the pleasant circle awaited his coming in the
drawing-room, the impracticable man was--at least so runs the
tale--quietly hobnobbing with companions to whom his fame was unknown.
Those who coveted him as a phoenix could never get him, while he gave
himself freely to those who saw in him only a placid barn-door fowl.
The sensitive youth was a recluse, upon whose imagination had fallen
the gloomy mystery of Puritan life and character. Salem was the
inevitable centre of his universe more truly than he thought. The mind
of Justice Hathorn's descendant was bewitched by the fascination of a
certain devilish subtlety working under the comeliest aspects in human
affairs. It overcame him with strange sympathy. It colored and
controlled his intellectual life.

Devoted all day to lonely reverie and musing upon the obscurer
spiritual passages of the life whose monuments he constantly
encountered, that musing became inevitably morbid. With the creative
instinct of the artist, he wrote the wild fancies into form as
stories, many of which, when written, he threw into the fire. Then,
after nightfall, stealing out from his room into the silent streets of
Salem, and shadowy as the ghosts with which to his susceptible
imagination the dusky town was thronged, he glided beneath the house
in which the witch-trials were held, or across the moonlit hill upon
which the witches were hung, until the spell was complete. Nor can we
help fancying that, after the murder of old Mr. White in Salem, which
happened within a few years after his return from college, which drew
from Mr. Webster his most famous criminal plea, and filled a shadowy
corner of every museum in New England, as every shivering little man
of that time remembers, with an awful reproduction of the scene in
wax-figures, with real sheets on the bed, and the murderer, in a
glazed cap, stooping over to deal the fatal blow--we cannot help
fancying that the young recluse who walked by night, the wizard whom
as yet none knew, hovered about the house, gazing at the windows of
the fatal chamber, and listening in horror for the faint whistle of
the confederate in another street.

Three years after he graduated, in 1828, he published anonymously a
slight romance with the motto from Southey, "Wilt thou go with me?"
Hawthorne never acknowledged the book, and it is now seldom found; but
it shows plainly the natural bent of his mind. It is a dim, dreamy
tale, such as a Byron-struck youth of the time might have written,
except for that startling self-possession of style and cold analysis
of passion, rather than sympathy with it, which showed no imitation,
but remarkable original power. The same lurid gloom overhangs it that
shadows all his works. It is uncanny; the figures of the romance are
not persons, they are passions, emotions, spiritual speculations. So
the _Twice-told Tales_ that seem at first but the pleasant fancies of
a mild recluse, gradually hold the mind with a Lamia-like fascination;
and the author says truly of them, in the Preface of 1851, "Even in
what purport to be pictures of actual life, we have allegory not
always so warmly dressed in its habiliments of flesh and blood as to
be taken into the reader's mind without a shiver." There are sunny
gleams upon the pages, but a strange, melancholy chill pervades the
book. In "The Wedding Knell", "The Minister's Black Veil", "The Gentle
Boy", "Wakefield", "The Prophetic Pictures", "The Hollow of the Three
Hills", "Dr. Heidegger's Experiment", "The Ambitious Guest", "The
White Old Maid", "Edward Fane's Rose-bud", "The Lily's Quest"--or in
the "Legends of the Province House", where the courtly provincial
state of governors and ladies glitters across the small, sad New
England world, whose very baldness jeers it to scorn--there is the
same fateful atmosphere in which Goody Cloyse might at any moment
whisk by upon her broomstick, and in which the startled heart stands
still with unspeakable terror.

The spell of mysterious horror which kindled Hawthorne's imagination
was a test of the character of his genius. The mind of this child of
witch-haunted Salem loved to hover between the natural and the
supernatural, and sought to tread the almost imperceptible and
doubtful line of contact. He instinctively sketched the phantoms that
have the figures of men, but are not human; the elusive, shadowy
scenery which, like that of Gustave Dor's pictures, is Nature
sympathizing in her forms and aspects with the emotions of terror or
awe which the tale excites. His genius broods entranced over the
evanescent phantasmagoria of the vague debatable land in which the
realities of experience blend with ghostly doubts and wonders.

But from its poisonous flowers what a wondrous perfume he distilled!
Through his magic reed, into what penetrating melody he blew that
deathly air! His relentless fancy seemed to seek a sin that was
hopeless, a cruel despair that no faith could throw off. Yet his nave
and well-poised genius hung over the gulf of blackness, and peered
into the pit with the steady nerve and simple face of a boy. The mind
of the reader follows him with an aching wonder and admiration, as the
bewildered old mother forester watched Undine's gambols. As Hawthorne
describes Miriam in _The Marble Faun_, so may the character of his
genius be most truly indicated. Miriam, the reader will remember,
turns to Hilda and Kenyon for sympathy. "Yet it was to little purpose
that she approached the edge of the voiceless gulf between herself and
them. Standing on the utmost verge of that dark chasm, she might
stretch out her hand and never clasp a hand of theirs; she might
strive to call out 'Help, friends! help!' but, as with dreamers when
they shout, her voice would perish inaudibly in the remoteness that
seemed such a little way. This perception of an infinite, shivering
solitude, amid which we cannot come close enough to human beings to be
warmed by them, and where they turn to cold, chilly shapes of mist, is
one of the most forlorn results of any accident, misfortune, crime, or
peculiarity of character, that puts an individual ajar with the world."

Thus it was because the early New England life made so much larger
account of the supernatural element than any other modern civilized
society, that the man whose blood had run in its veins instinctively
turned to it. But beyond this alluring spell of its darker and
obscurer individual experience, it seems neither to have touched his
imagination nor even to have aroused his interest. To Walter Scott the
romance of feudalism was precious for the sake of feudalism itself, in
which he believed with all his soul, and for that of the heroic old
feudal figures which he honored. He was a Tory in every particle of
his frame, and his genius made him the poet of Toryism. But Hawthorne
had apparently no especial political, religious, or patriotic affinity
with the spirit which inspired him. It was solely a fascination of the
intellect. And although he is distinctively the poet of the Puritans,
although it is to his genius that we shall always owe that image of
them which the power of The Scarlet Letter has imprinted upon
literature, and doubtless henceforth upon historical interpretation,
yet what an imperfect picture of that life it is! All its stern and
melancholy romance is there--its picturesque gloom and intense
passion; but upon those quivering pages, as in every passage of his
stories drawn from that spirit, there seems to be wanting a deep,
complete, sympathetic appreciation of the fine moral heroism, the
spiritual grandeur, which overhung that gloomy life, as a delicate
purple mist suffuses in summer twilights the bald crags of the crystal
hills. It is the glare of the scarlet letter itself, and all that it
luridly reveals and weirdly implies, which produced the tale. It was
not beauty in itself nor deformity, not virtue nor vice, which engaged
the author's deepest sympathy. It was the occult relation between the
two. Thus while the Puritans were of all men pious, it was the
instinct of Hawthorne's genius to search out and trace with terrible
tenacity the dark and devious thread of sin in their lives.

Human life and character, whether in New England two hundred years ago
or in Italy to-day, interested him only as they were touched by this
glamour of sombre spiritual mystery; and the attraction pursued him in
every form in which it appeared. It is as apparent in the most perfect
of his smaller tales, _Rappaccini's Daughter_, as in _The Scarlet
Letter, The Blithedale Romance, The House of the Seven Gables_, and
_The Marble Faun_. You may open almost at random, and you are as sure
to find it as to hear the ripple in Mozart's music, or the pathetic
minor in a Neapolitan melody. Take, for instance, The _Birth-Mark_,
which we might call the best of the smaller stories, if we had not
just said the same thing of _Rappaccini's Daughter_--for so even and
complete is Hawthorne's power, that, with few exceptions, each work of
his, like Benvenuto's, seems the most characteristic and felicitous.
In this story, a scholar marries a beautiful woman, upon whose face is
a mark which has hitherto seemed to be only a greater charm. Yet in
one so lovely the husband declares that, although it is the slightest
possible defect, it is yet the mark of earthly imperfection, and he
proceeds to lavish all the resources of science to procure its
removal. But it will not disappear; and at last he tells her that the
crimson hand "has clutched its grasp" into her very being, and that
there is mortal danger in trying the only means of removal that
remains. She insists that it shall be tried. It succeeds; but it
removes the stain and her life together. So in _Rappaccini's
Daughter_. The old philosopher nourishes his beautiful child upon the
poisonous breath of a flower. She loves, and her lover is likewise
bewitched. In trying to break the spell, she drinks an antidote which
kills her. The point of interest in both stories is the subtile
connection, in the first, between the beauty of Georgiana and the
taint of the birth-mark; and, in the second, the loveliness of
Beatrice and the poison of the blossom.

This, also, is the key of his last romance, _The Marble Faun_, one of
the most perfect works of art in literature, whose marvellous spell
begins with the very opening words: "Four individuals, in whose
fortunes we should be glad to interest the reader, happened to be
standing in one of the saloons of the sculpture-gallery in the Capitol
at Rome." When these words are read, the mind familiar with Hawthorne
is already enthralled. "What a journey is beginning, not a step of
which is trodden, and yet the heart palpitates with apprehension!
Through what delicate, rosy lights of love, and soft, shimmering
humor, and hopes and doubts and vanishing delights, that journey will
proceed, on and on into utter gloom." And it does so, although "Hilda
had a hopeful soul, and saw sunlight on the mountain-tops". It does
so, because Miriam and Donatello are the figures which interest us
most profoundly, and they are both lost in the shadow. Donatello,
indeed, is the true centre of interest, as he is one of the most
striking creations of genius. But the perplexing charm of Donatello,
what is it but the doubt that does not dare to breathe itself, the
appalled wonder whether, if the breeze should lift those clustering
locks a little higher, he would prove to be faun or man? It never does
lift them; the doubt is never solved, but it is always suggested. The
mystery of a partial humanity, morally irresponsible but humanly
conscious, haunts the entrancing page. It draws us irresistibly on.
But as the cloud closes around the lithe figure of Donatello, we hear
again from its hidden folds the words of "The Birth-Mark": "Thus ever
does the gross fatality of earth exult in its invariable triumph over
the immortal essence, which, in this dim sphere of half-development,
demands the completeness of a higher state". Or still more sadly, the
mysterious youth, half vanishing from our sympathy, seems to murmur,
with Beatrice Rappaccini, "And still as she spoke, she kept her hand
upon her heart,--'Wherefore didst thou inflict this miserable doom
upon thy child?'"

We have left the story of Hawthorne's life sadly behind. But his life
had no more remarkable events than holding office in the Boston
Customhouse under Mr. Bancroft as collector; working for some time
with the Brook--Farmers, from whom he soon separated, not altogether
amicably; marrying and living in the Old Manse at Concord; returning
to the Custom-house in Salem as surveyor; then going to Lenox, in
Berkshire, where he lived in what he called "the ugliest little old
red farm-house that you ever saw", and where the story is told of his
shyness, that, if he saw anybody coming along the road whom he must
probably pass, he would jump over the wall into the pasture, and so
give the stranger a wide berth; back again to Concord; then to
Liverpool as consul; travelling in Europe afterwards, and home at last
and forever, to "The Wayside" under the Concord hill. "The hillside,"
he wrote to a friend in 1852, "is covered chiefly with locust-trees,
which come into luxuriant blossom in the month of June, and look and
smell very sweetly, intermixed with a few young elms and some
white-pines and infant oaks, the whole forming rather a thicket than a
wood. Nevertheless, there is some very good shade to be found there; I
spend delectable hours there in the hottest part of the day, stretched
out at my lazy length with a book in my hand or an unwritten book in
my thoughts. There is almost always a breeze stirring along the side
or the brow of the hill."

It is not strange, certainly, that a man such as has been described,
of a morbid shyness, the path of whose genius diverged always out of
the sun into the darkest shade, and to whom human beings were merely
psychological phenomena, should have been accounted ungenial, and
sometimes even hard, cold, and perverse. From the bent of his
intellectual temperament it happens that in his simplest and sweetest
passages he still seems to be studying and curiously observing, rather
than sympathizing. You cannot help feeling constantly that the author
is looking askance both at his characters and you, the reader; and
many a young and fresh mind is troubled strangely by his books, as if
it were aware of a half-Mephistophelean smile upon the page. Nor is
this impression altogether removed by the remarkable familiarity of
his personal disclosures. There was never a man more shrinkingly
retiring, yet surely never was an author more naively frank. He is
willing that you should know all that a man may fairly reveal of
himself. The great interior story he does not tell, of course, but the
Introduction to the _Mosses from an Old Manse_, the opening chapter of
_The Scarlet Letter_, and the _Consular Experiences_, with much of the
rest of _Our Old Home_, are as intimate and explicit chapters of
autobiography as can be found. Nor would it be easy to find anywhere a
more perfect idyl than that introductory chapter of the _Mosses_. Its
charm is perennial and indescribable; and why should it not be, since
it was written at a time in which, as he says, "I was happy?" It is,
perhaps, the most softly-hued and exquisite work of his pen. So the
sketch of "The Custom-house", although prefatory to that most
tragically powerful of romances,

_The Scarlet Letter_, is an incessant play of the shyest and most airy
humor. It is like the warbling of bobolinks before a thunder-burst.
How many other men, however unreserved with the pen, would be likely
to dare to paint, with the fidelity of Teniers and the simplicity of
Fra Angelico, a picture of the office and the companions in which and
with whom they did their daily work? The surveyor of customs in the
port of Salem treated the town of Salem, in which he lived and
discharged his daily task, as if it had been, with all its people, as
vague and remote a spot as the town of which he was about to treat in
the story. He commented upon the place and the people as modern
travellers in Pompeii discuss the ancient town. It made a great
scandal. He was accused of depicting with unpardonable severity worthy
folks, whose friends were sorely pained and indignant. But he wrote
such sketches as he wrote his stories. He treated his companions as he
treated himself and all the personages in history or experience with
which he dealt, merely as phenomena to be analyzed and described, with
no more private malice or personal emotion than the sun, which would
have photographed them, warts and all.

Thus it was that the great currents of human sympathy never swept him
away. The character of his genius isolated him, and he stood aloof
from the common interests. Intent upon studying men in certain
aspects, he cared little for man; and the high tides of collective
emotion among his fellows left him dry and untouched. So he beholds
and describes the generous impulse of humanity with sceptical courtesy
rather than with hopeful cordiality.

He does not chide you if you spend effort and life itself in the
ardent van of progress, but he asks simply, "Is six so much better
than half a dozen?" He will not quarrel with you if you expect the
millennium to-morrow. He only says, with that glimmering smile, "So
soon?" Yet in all this there was no shadow of spiritual pride. Nay, so
far from this, that the tranquil and pervasive sadness of all
Hawthorne's writings, the kind of heartache that they leave behind,
seem to spring from the fact that his nature was related to the moral
world, as his own Donatello was to the human. "So alert, so alluring,
so noble", muses the heart as we climb the Apennines towards the tower
of Monte Beni; "alas! is he human?" it whispers, with a pang of doubt.

How this directed his choice of subjects, and affected his treatment
of them, when drawn from early history, we have already seen. It is
not, therefore, surprising, that the history into which he was born
interested him only in the same way.

When he went to Europe as consul, _Uncle Tom's Cabin_ was already
published, and the country shook with the fierce debate which involved
its life. Yet eight years later Hawthorne wrote with calm ennui, "No
author, without a trial, can conceive of the difficulty of writing a
romance about a country where there is no shadow, no antiquity, no
mystery, no picturesque and gloomy wrong, nor anything but a
commonplace prosperity, in broad and simple daylight, as is happily
the case with my dear native land." Is crime never romantic, then,
until distance ennobles it? Or were the tragedies of Puritan life so
terrible that the imagination could not help kindling, while the pangs
of the plantation are superficial and commonplace? Charlotte Bront,
Dickens, and Thackeray were able to find a shadow even in "merrie
England". But our great romancer looked at the American life of his
time with these marvellous eyes, and could see only monotonous
sunshine. That the devil, in the form of an elderly man clad in grave
and decent attire, should lead astray the saints of Salem village, two
centuries ago, and confuse right and wrong in the mind of Goodman
Brown, was something that excited his imagination, and produced one of
his weirdest stories. But that the same devil, clad in a sombre
sophism, was confusing the sentiment of right and wrong in the mind of
his own countrymen he did not even guess. The monotonous sunshine
disappeared in the blackest storm. The commonplace prosperity ended in
tremendous war. What other man of equal power, who was not
intellectually constituted precisely as Hawthorne was, could have
stood merely perplexed and bewildered, harassed by the inability of
positive sympathy, in the vast conflict which tosses us all in its
terrible vortex?

In political theories and in an abstract view of war men may differ.
But this war is not to be dismissed as a political difference. Here is
an attempt to destroy the government of a country, not because it
oppressed any man, but because its evident tendency was to secure
universal justice under law. It is, therefore, a conspiracy against
human nature. Civilization itself is at stake; and the warm blood of
the noblest youth is everywhere flowing in as sacred a cause as
history records--flowing not merely to maintain a certain form of
government, but to vindicate the rights of human nature. Shall there
not be sorrow and pain, if a friend is merely impatient or confounded
by it--if he sees in it only danger or doubt, and not hope for the
right--or if he seem to insinuate that it would have been better if
the war had been avoided, even at that countless cost to human welfare
by which alone the avoidance was possible?

Yet, if the view of Hawthorne's mental constitution which has been
suggested be correct, this attitude of his, however deeply it may be
regretted, can hardly deserve moral condemnation. He knew perfectly
well that if a man has no ear for music he had better not try to sing.
But the danger with such men is that they are apt to doubt if music
itself be not a vain delusion. This danger Hawthorne escaped. There is
none of the shallow persiflage of the sceptic in his tone, nor any
affectation of cosmopolitan superiority. Mr. Edward Dicey, in his
interesting reminiscences of Hawthorne, published in _Macmillan's
Magazine_, illustrates this very happily.

   "To make his position intelligible, let me repeat an anecdote which
    was told me by a very near friend of his and mine, who had heard it
    from President Pierce himself. Frank Pierce had been, and was to the
    day of Hawthorne's death, one of the oldest of his friends. At the
    time of the Presidential election of 1856, Hawthorne, for once, took
    part in politics, wrote a pamphlet in favor of his friend, and took
    a most unusual interest in his success. When the result of the
    nomination was known, and Pierce was President-elect, Hawthorne was
    among the first to come and wish him joy. He sat down in the room
    moodily and silently, as he was wont when anything troubled him; then,
    without speaking a word, he shook Pierce warmly by the hand, and at
    last remarked, 'Ah, Frank, what a pity!' The moment the victory was
    won, that timid, hesitating mind saw the evils of the successful
    course--the advantages of the one which had not been followed. So it
    was always. Of two lines of action, he was perpetually in doubt which
    was the best; and so, between the two, he always inclined to letting
    things remain as they are.

   "Nobody disliked slavery more cordially than he did; and yet the
    difficulty of what was to be done with the slaves weighed constantly
    upon his mind. He told me once that, while he had been consul at
    Liverpool, a vessel arrived there with a number of negro sailors, who
    had been brought from slave States, and would, of course, be enslaved
    again on their return. He fancied that he ought to inform the men of
    the fact, but then he was stopped by the reflection--who was to
    provide for them if they became free? and, as he said, with a sigh,
    'while I was thinking, the vessel sailed.' So, I recollect, on the old
    battle-field of Manassas, in which I strolled in company with
    Hawthorne, meeting a batch of runaway slaves--weary, foot-sore,
    wretched, and helpless beyond conception; we gave them food and wine,
    some small sums of money, and got them a lift upon a train going
    northward; but not long afterwards Hawthorne turned to me with the
    remark, 'I am not sure we were doing right after all. How can these
    poor beings find food and shelter away from home?' Thus this ingrained
    and inherent doubt incapacitated him from following any course
    vigorously. He thought, on the whole, that Wendell Phillips and Lloyd
    Garrison and the Abolitionists were in the right, but then he was
    never quite certain that they were not in the wrong after all; so that
    his advocacy of their cause was of a very uncertain character. He saw
    the best, to alter slightly the famous Horatian line, but he never
    could quite make up his mind whether he altogether approved of its
    wisdom, and therefore followed it but falteringly.

      "'Better to bear those ills we have,
        Than fly to others that we know not of,'

   "expressed the philosophy to which Hawthorne was thus borne
    imperceptibly. Unjustly, but yet not unreasonably, he was looked upon
    as a pro-slavery man, and suspected of Southern sympathies. In
    politics he was always halting between two opinions; or, rather,
    holding one opinion, he could never summon up his courage to adhere
    to it and it only."

The truth is that his own times and their people and their affairs
were just as shadowy to him as those of any of his stories, and his
mind held the same curious, half-wistful poise among all the conflicts
of principle and passion around him, as among those of which he read
and mused. If you ask why this was so--how it was that the tragedy of
an old Italian garden, or the sin of a lonely Puritan parish, or the
crime of a provincial judge, should so stimulate his imagination with
romantic appeals and harrowing allegories, while either it did not see
a Carolina slave-pen, or found in it only a tame prosperity--you must
take your answer in the other question, why he did not weave into any
of his stories the black and bloody thread of the Inquisition. His
genius obeyed its law. When he wrote like a disembodied intelligence
of events with which his neighbors' hearts were quivering--when the
same half-smile flutters upon his lips in the essay _About War
Matters_, sketched as it were upon the battle-field, as in that upon
_Fire Worship_, written in the rural seclusion of the mossy Manse--ah
me! it is Donatello, in his tower of Monte Beni, contemplating with
doubtful interest the field upon which the flower of men are dying for
an idea. Do you wonder, as you see him and hear him, that your heart,
bewildered, asks and asks again, "Is he human? Is he a man?"

Now that Hawthorne sleeps by the tranquil Concord, upon whose shores
the Old Manse was his bridal bower, those who knew him chiefly there
revert beyond the angry hour to those peaceful days. How dear the Old
Manse was to him he has himself recorded; and in the opening of the
_Tanglewood Tales_ he pays his tribute to that placid landscape, which
will always be recalled with pensive tenderness by those who, like
him, became familiar with it in happy hours. "To me," he writes,
"there is a peculiar, quiet charm in these broad meadows and gentle
eminences. They are better than mountains, because they do not stamp
and stereotype themselves into the brain, and thus grow wearisome with
the same strong impression, repeated day after day. A few summer weeks
among mountains, a lifetime among green meadows and placid slopes,
with outlines forever new, because continually fading out of the
memory, such would be my sober choice." He used to say, in those
days--when, as he was fond of insisting, he was the obscurest author
in the world, because, although he had told his tales twice, nobody
cared to listen--that he never knew exactly how he contrived to live.
But he was then married, and the dullest eye could not fail to detect
the feminine grace and taste that ordered the dwelling, and perceive
the tender sagacity that made all things possible.

Such was his simplicity and frugality that, when he was left alone for
a little time in his Arcadia, lie would dismiss "the help", and, with
some friend of other days who came to share his loneliness, he cooked
the easy meal, and washed up the dishes. No picture is clearer in the
memory of a certain writer than that of the magician, in whose
presence he almost lost his breath, looking at him over a dinner-plate
which he was gravely wiping in the kitchen, while the handy friend,
who had been a Western settler, scoured the kettle at the door.
Blithedale, where their acquaintance had begun, had not allowed either
of them to forget how to help himself. It was amusing to one who knew
this native independence of Hawthorne, to hear, some years afterwards,
that he wrote the "campaign" _Life of Franklin Pierce_ for the sake of
getting an office. That such a man should do such a work was possibly
incomprehensible to those who did not know him upon any other
supposition, until the fact was known that Mr. Pierce was an old and
constant friend. Then it was explained. Hawthorne asked simply how he
could help his friend, and he did the only thing he could do for that
purpose. But although he passed some years in public office, he had
neither taste nor talent for political life. He owed his offices to
works quite other than political. His first and second appointments
were virtually made by his friend Mr. Bancroft, and the third by his
friend Mr. Pierce. His claims were perceptible enough to friendship,
but would hardly have been so to a caucus.

In this brief essay we have aimed only to indicate the general
character of the genius of Hawthorne, and to suggest a key to his
peculiar relation to his time. The reader will at once see that it is
rather the man than the author who has been described; but this has
been designedly done, for we confess a personal solicitude, shared, we
are very sure, by many friends of Nathaniel Hawthorne, that there
shall not be wanting to the future student of his works such light as
acquaintance with the man may throw upon them, as well as some picture
of the impression his personality made upon his contemporaries.

Strongly formed, of dark, poetic gravity of aspect, lighted by the
deep, gleaming eye that recoiled with girlish coyness from contact
with your gaze; of rare courtesy and kindliness in personal
intercourse, yet so sensitive that his look and manner can be
suggested by the word "glimmering;" giving you a sense of restrained
impatience to be away; mostly silent in society, and speaking always
with an appearance of effort, but with a lambent light of delicate
humor playing over all he said in the confidence of familiarity, and
firm self-possession under all, as if the glimmering manner were only
the tremulous surface of the sea, Hawthorne was personally known to
few, and intimately to very few. But no one knew him without loving
him, or saw him without remembering him; and the name Nathaniel
Hawthorne, which, when it was first written, was supposed to be
fictitious, is now one of the most enduring facts of English
literature.




RACHEL


One evening in Paris, we were strolling through that most Parisian
spot the Palais Royal, or, as it was called at that moment, the Palais
National. It was after the revolution of February; but, although the
place was full of associations with French revolutions, it seemed to
have no special sympathy with the trouble of the moment, and was as
gay as the youngest imagination conceives Paris to be. There was a
constant throng loitering along the arcades; the cafes were lighted
and crowded; men were smoking, sipping coffee, playing billiards,
reading the newspapers, discussing the debates in the Chamber and the
coming "Prophete" of Meyerbeer at the opera; women were chatting
together in the boutiques, pretty grisettes hurrying home; little
blanchisseuses, with their neatly-napkinned baskets, tripping among
the crowd; strangers watched the gay groups, paused at the windows of
tailors and jewellers, and felt the fascination of Paris. It was the
moment of high-tide of Parisian life. It was an epitome of Paris, and
Paris is an epitome of the time and of the world.

At the corner of the Palais Royal is the Comdie Franaise, and to
that we were going. There Rachel was playing. There she had recently
recited the "Marseillaise" to frenzied Paris; and there, in the vestibule,
genius of French comedy, of French intellect, and of French life, sits
the wonderful Voltaire of Houdon, the statue which, for the first time,
after the dreadful portraits which misrepresent him, gives the spectator
some adequate idea of the personal appearance and impression of the man
who moulded an age. You can scarcely see the statue without a shudder.
It is remorseless intellect laid bare. The cold sweetness of the aspect,
the subtle penetration of the brow, the passionless supremacy of a figure
which is neither manly nor graceful, fill your mind with apprehension and
with the conviction that the French Revolution you have seen is not the
last.

The curtain rises, and Paris and France roll away. A sad, solitary
figure, like a dream of tragic Greece, glides across the scene. The
air grows cold and thin, with a sense of the presence of lost
antiquity. The feeling of fate, vast, resistless, and terrible, rises
like a suffocating vapor; and the hopeless woe of the face, the
pathetic dignity of the form, assure you, before she speaks, that this
is indeed Rachel. The scenery is poor and hard; but its severe
outlines and its conventional character serve to suggest Greece. The
drapery which hangs upon Rachel is exquisitely studied from the most
perfect statue. There is not a fold which is not Greek and graceful,
and which does not seem obedient to the same law which touches her
face with tragedy. As she slowly opens her thin lips, your own blanch;
and from her melancholy eyes all smiles and possibility of joy have
utterly passed away. Rachel stands alone, a solitary statue of fate
and woe.

When she speaks, the low, thrilling, distinct voice seems to proceed
rather from her eyes than her mouth. It has a wan sound, if we may say
so. It is the very tone you would have predicted as coming from that
form, like the unearthly music which accompanies the speech of the
Commendatore's statue in "Don Giovanni". That appearance and that
voice are the key of the whole performance. Before she has spoken, you
are filled with the spirit of an age infinitely remote, and only
related to human sympathy now by the grandeur of suffering. The rest
merely confirms that impression. The whole is simple and intense. It
is conceived and fulfilled in the purest sense of Greek art.

Of the early career and later life of Rachel such romantic stories are
told and believed that only to see the heroine of her own life would
be attraction enough to draw the world to Paris. Dr. Vernon, in his
_Mmoires d'un Bourgeois_, has described her earliest appearance upon
the Boulevards--her studies, her trials, and her triumph. That triumph
has been unequalled in stage annals for enthusiasm and permanence.
Other actors have achieved single successes as brilliant; but no other
has held for so long the most fickle and fastidious nation thrall to
her powers; owning no rival near the throne, and ruling with a sway
whose splendor was only surpassed by its sternness.

For Rachel has never sought to ally her genius to goodness, and has
rather despised than courted the aid of noble character. Not a lady by
birth or breeding, she is reported to have surpassed Messalina in
debauchery and Semiramis in luxury. Paris teems with tales of her
private life, which, while they are undoubtedly exaggerated, yet serve
to show the kind of impression her career has produced. Those modern
Sybarites, the princes and nobles of Russia, are the heroes of her
private romances; and her sumptuous apartments, if not a Tour de
Nesle, are at least a bower of Rosamond.

As if to show the independent superiority of her art, she has been
willing to appear, or she really is, avaricious, mean, jealous,
passionate, false; and then, by her prodigious power, she has swayed
the public that so judged her as the wind tosses a leaf. There has,
alas, been disdain in her superiority. Perhaps Paris has found
something fascinating in her very contempt, as in the _Mmoires du
Diable_ the heroine confesses that she loved the ferocity of her
lover. Nor is it a traditional fame that she has enjoyed; but whenever
Rachel plays, the theatre is crowded, and the terror and the tears are
what they were when she began.

Rachel is the greatest of merely dramatic artists. Others are more
beautiful; others are more stately and imposing; others have been
fitted by external gifts of nature to personify characters of very
marked features; others are more graceful and lovely and winning; most
others mingle their own personality with the characters they assume,
but Rachel has this final evidence of genius, that she is always
superior to what she does; her mind presides over her own
performances. It is the perfection of art. In describing this peculiar
supremacy of genius, a scholar, in whose early death a poet and
philosopher was lost, says of Shakespeare: "He sat pensive and alone
above the hundred-handed play of his imagination." And Fanny Kemble,
in her journal, describes a conversation upon the stage, in the
tomb-scene of "Romeo and Juliet", where she, as Juliet, says to Mr.
Romeo Keppel, "Where the devil is your dagger?" while all the tearful
audience are lost in the soft woe of the scene.

This is very much opposed to the general theory of acting, and the
story is told with great gusto of a boy who was sent to see Garrick,
we believe, and who was greatly delighted with the fine phrasing and
swagger of a supernumerary, but could not understand why people
applauded such an ordinary bumpkin as Garrick, who did not differ a
whit from all the country boobies he had ever seen. It is insisted
that the actor must persuade the spectator that he is what he seems to
be, and this is gravely put as the first and final proof of good
acting.

This is, however, both a false view of art and a false interpretation
and observation of experience. Shakespeare, through the mouth of
Hamlet, tells the players to "hold the mirror up to nature"--that is,
to represent nature. For what is the dramatic art, like all other
arts, but a representation? If it aims to deceive the eye--if it tries
to juggle the senses of the spectator--it is as trivial as if a
painter should put real gold upon his canvas instead of representing
gold by means of paint; or as if a sculptor should tinge the cheeks of
his statue to make it more like a human face. We have seen tin pans so
well represented in painting that the result was atrocious. For, if
the object intended is really a tin pan, and not the pleasure produced
by a conscious representation of one, then why not insert the
veritable pan in the picture at once? If art is only a more or less
successful imitation of natural objects, with a view to cheat the
senses, it is an amusing game, but it is not a noble pursuit.

It is an equally false observation of experience; because, if the
spectator were really deceived, if the actor became, in the mind of
the audience, truly identical with the character he represents, then,
when that character was odious, the audience would revolt. If we
cannot quietly sit and see one dog tear another, without interfering,
could we gravely look on and only put our handkerchiefs to our eyes,
when Othello puts the pillow to the mouth of Desdemona? If we really
supposed him to be a murderous man, how instantly we should leap upon
the stage and rescue "the gentle lady". The truth is, to state it
boldly, we know the roaring lion to be only Snug, the joiner.

All works of art must produce pleasure. Even the sternest and most
repulsive subjects must be touched by art into a pensive beauty, or
they fail to reach the height of great works. Goethe has shown this in
the _Laocoon_, and every man feels it in constant experience. One of
the grand themes of modern painting is the great tragedy of history,
the Crucifixion. Materially it is repulsive, as the spectacle of a man
in excruciating bodily torture; spiritually it is overwhelming, as the
symbolized suffering of God for sin. If, now, the pictures which treat
this subject were indeed only imitations of the scene, so that the
spectator listened for the groans of agony and looked to see the blood
drop from the brow crowned with thorns, how hideous and insupportable
the sight would be! The mind is conscious as it contemplates the
picture that it is a representation, and not a fact. The mere force of
actuality is, therefore, destroyed, and thought busies itself with the
moral significance of the scene. In the same way, in the tragedy of
"Othello", conscious that there is not the actual physical suffering
which there seems to be, the mind contemplates the real meaning which
underlies that appearance, and curses jealousy and the unmanly passions.

Even in a very low walk of art the same principle is manifested. A man
might not care to adorn his parlor with the carcass of an ox or a hog,
nor invite to his table boors muzzy with beer. But the most elegant of
nations prizes the pictures of Teniers at extraordinary prices, and
hangs its galleries with works minutely representing the shambles.
Here, again, the explanation is this: that the mind, rejecting any
idea of actuality in the picture, is charmed with the delicacy of
detail, with lovely color, with tone, with tenderness, and all these
are qualities inseparable from the picture, and do not belong by any
necessity to the actual carcasses of animals. In the shambles, the
sense of disgust and repulsion overcomes any pleasure in light and
color. In the parlor, if the spectator were persuaded by the picture
to hold his nose, the thing would be as unlovely as it is in nature.
Imitation pleases only so far as it is known to be imitation. If
deception by imitation were the object of art, then the material of
the sculptor should be wax, and not marble. Every visitor mistakes
the sitting figure of Cobbett, in Madame Tussaud's collection of
wax-works, for a real man, and will very likely, as we did, speak to
it. But who would accost the Moses of Michael Angelo, or believe the
sitting Medici in his chapel to have speech?

There is something unhandsomely derogatory to art in this common view.
It is forgotten that art is not subsidiary nor auxiliary to nature,
but it is a distinct ministry, and has a world of its own. They are
not in opposition, nor do they clash. The cardinal fact of imitation
in works of art is evident enough. The exquisite charm of art lies in
the perfection of the imitation, coexisting with the consciousness of
an absolute difference, so that the effect produced is not at all that
which the object itself produces, but is an intellectual pleasure
arising from the perception of the mingling of rational intention with
the representation of the natural object. We can illustrate this by
supposing a child bringing in a fresh rose, and a painter his picture
of a rose. The pleasure derived from the picture is surely something
better than wonder at the skill with which the form and color of the
flower are imitated. Since imitation can never attain to the dignity
and worth of the original, and since we live in the midst of nature,
it would be folly to claim for its more or less successful copy the
position and form of a great mental and moral influence.

Of course we are not unmindful of the inevitable assertion that if
certain forms are to be used for the expression of certain truths, the
first condition is that those forms shall be accurately rendered.
Hence arises the great stress laid by the modern schools upon a
rigorous imitation of nature, and hence what is called the
pre-Raphaelite spirit, with its marvellous detail. But mere imitation
does not come any nearer to great art by being perfect. If it is not
informed by a great intention, sculpture is only wax-work and painting
a juggle.

It is by her instinctive recognition of these fundamental principles
that Rachel shows herself to be an artist. She is fully persuaded of
the value of the modern spirit, and she belongs to the time by nothing
more than by her instinctive and hearty adaptation of the principles
of art which are illustrated in all other departments. There is
nothing in Millais's or Hunt's paintings more purely pre-Raphaelite
than Rachel's acting in the last scenes of "Adrienne Lecouvreur". It
is the perfection of detail. It was studied, gasp by gasp, and groan
by groan, in the hospital wards of Paris, where men were dying in
agony. It is terrible, but it is true. We have seen a crowded theatre
hanging in a suspense almost suffocating over that fearful scene. Men
grew pale, women fainted, a spell of silence and awe held us
enchanted. But it was all pure art. The actor was superior to the
scene. It was the passion with which she threw herself into the
representation, with a distinct conception of the whole, and a
thorough knowledge of the means necessary to produce its effect, that
secured the success. There was a sublimity of self-control in the
spectacle, for, if she had allowed herself to be overwhelmed by the
excitement, the play must have paused; real feeling would have invaded
that which was represented, and we should, by a rude shock, have been
staring in wonder at the weeping woman Rachel, instead of thrilling
with the woes of the dying, despairing Adrienne. She seems to be what
we know she is not.

Rachel's earlier triumphs were in the plays of Racine. Certainly
nothing could show the essential worth of the old Greek dramatic
material more than the fact that it could be rendered into French
rhyme without losing all its dignity. If a man should know Homer only
through Pope's translations, he could hardly understand the real
greatness and peculiar charm of Homer. And as most of us know him in
no other way, we all understand that the eminence of Homer is conceded
upon the force of tradition and the feeling of those who have read him
in the original. So, to the reader of Racine, it is his knowledge of
the outline of the grand old Greek stories that prevents their loss of
charm and loftiness when they masquerade in French rhyme. They have
lost their sublimity, so far as treatment can effect it, while they
retain their general form of interest. But it is the splendid triumph
of Rachel that she restores the original Greek grandeur to the drama.
We no longer wonder at Racine's idea of Phdre, but we are confronted
with Phdre herself. From the moment she appears, through every change
and movement of the scene until the catastrophe, a sense of fate, the
grim, remorseless, and inexorable destiny that presides over Greek
story, is stamped upon every look and nod and movement of Rachel. It
is stated that, since the enthusiasm produced in Paris by Ristori,
Rachel's Italian rival, the sculptor Schlesinger has declared that his
statue of Rachel which he had called Tragedy was only Melodrama after
all. If the report be true, it does not prove that Rachel, but
Schlesinger, is not a great artist.

It is this simplicity and grandeur that make the excellence of Rachel
in the characters of Racine. They cease to be French and become Greek.
As a victim of fate, she moves, from the first scene to the last, as
by a resistless impulse. Her voice has a low concentrated tone. Her
movement is not vehement, but intense. If she smiles, it is a wan
gleam of sadness, not of joy, as if the eyes that lighten for a moment
saw all the time the finger of fate pointing over her shoulder. The
thin form, graceful with intellectual dignity, not rounded with the
ripeness of young womanhood, the statuesque simplicity and severity of
the drapery, the pale cheek, the sad lips, the small eyes--these are
accessory to the whole impression, the melancholy ornaments of the
tragic scene. Her fine instinct avoids the romantic and melodramatic
touches which, however seductive to an actor who aims at effect, would
destroy at once that breadth and unity which characterize her best
impersonations. Wherever the idea of fate inspires the tragedy, or can
properly be introduced as the motive, there Rachel is unsurpassed and
unapproachable. Her stillness, her solemnity, her intensity; the want
of mouthing, of ranting, of all extravagance; the slight movement of
the arms, and the subtle inflections of the voice which are more
expressive than gestures, haunt the memory and float through the mind
afterwards as the figure of Francesca di Rimini, in the exquisite
picture of Ary Scheffer, sweeps, full of woe, which every line
suggests, across the vision of Dante and his guide.

There was, naturally, the greatest curiosity and a good deal of
scepticism about Rachel's power in the modern drama, the melodrama of
Victor Hugo, and the social drama of Scribe. But her appearance in the
"Angelo" of Victor Hugo and in "Adrienne Lecouvreur" of Scribe
satisfied the curiosity and routed the scepticism. It was pleasant
after the vast and imposing forms, the tearless tragedy of Greek
story, to see the mastery of this genius in the conditions of a life
and spirit with which we were more familiar and sympathetic. It was
clear that the same passionate intensity which, united with the most
exquisite perceptions, enabled her so perfectly to restore the Greek
spirit to the Greek form, would as adequately represent the voluptuous
southern life. If in the old drama she was sculpture, so in the modern
she was painting, not only with the flowing outline, but with all the
purple, palpitating hues of passion.

This is best manifested in the "Angelo", of which the scene is laid in
old Padua and is, therefore, full of the mysterious spirit of
mediaeval Italian, and especially Venetian life. Miss Cushman has
played in an English version of this drama, called the "Actress of
Padua". But it is hardly grandiose enough in its proportions to be
very well adapted to the talent of Miss Cushman. It was remarkable how
perfectly the genius which had, the evening before, adequately
represented Phdre, could impersonate the ablest finesse of Italian
subtilty. The old Italian romances were made real in a moment. The dim
chambers, the dusky passages, the sliding doors, the vivid contrast of
gayety and gloom, the dance in the palace and the duel in the garden,
the smile on the lip and the stab at the heart, the capricious
feeling, the impetuous action, the picturesque costume of life and
society--all the substance and the form of our ideas of characteristic
Italian life, are comprised in Rachel's Thisbe and Angelo.

There is one scene in that play not to be forgotten. The curtain rises
and shows a vast, dim chamber in the castle, with a heavily-curtained
bed, and massive carved furniture, and a deep bay-window. It is night;
a candle burns upon the table, feebly flickering in the gloom of the
great chamber. Angelo, whom Thisbe loves, and who pretends to love
her, is sitting uneasily in the chamber with his mistress, whose name
we have forgotten, but whom he really loves. Thisbe is suspicious of
his want of faith, and burns with jealousy, but has had no proof.

A gust of wind, the rustle of the tapestry, the creak of a bough in
the garden, the note of a night bird, any slightest sound makes the
lovers start and quiver, as if they stood upon the verge of an
imminent peril. Suddenly they both start at a low noise, apparently in
the wall. Angelo rises and looks about, his mistress shivers and
shrinks, but they discover nothing. The night deepens around them. The
sense of calamity and catastrophe rises in the spectator's mind. They
start again. This time they hear a louder noise, and glance helplessly
around and feebly try to scoff away their terror. The sound dies away,
and they converse in appalled and fragmentary whispers. But again a
low, cautious, sliding noise arrests them. Angelo springs up, runs for
his hat and cloak, blows out the candle upon the table, and escapes
from the room, while his mistress totters to the bed and throws
herself upon it, feigning sleep. The stage is left unoccupied, while
the just-extinguished candle still smokes upon the table, and the
sidelights and footlights, being lowered, wrap the vast chamber in
deeper gloom.

At this moment a small secret door in the wall at the bottom of the
stage slips aside, and Thisbe, still wearing her ball-dress, and with
a head-dress of gold sequins flashing in her black hair, is discovered
crouching in the aperture, holding an antique lamp in one hand, a
little raised, and with the other softly putting aside the door,
while, bending forward with a cat-like stillness, she glares around
the chamber with eager eyes, that flash upon everything at once. The
picture is perfect. The light falls from the raised lamp upon this
jewelled figure crouching in the darkness at the bottom of the stage.
Judith was not more terrible; Lucrezia Borgia not more superb. But,
magnificent as it is, it is a moment of such intense interest that
applause is suspended. The house is breathless, for it is but the
tiger's crouch that precedes the spring. The next instant she is upon
the floor of the chamber, and, still bending slightly forward to
express the eager concentration of her mind, she glances at the bed
and the figure upon it with a scornful sneer, that indicates how
clearly she sees the pretence of sleep, and how evidently somebody has
been there, or something has happened which justifies all her
suspicion, and then, with panther-like celerity, she darts about the
chamber to find some trace of the false lover--a hat, a glove, a
plume, a cloak--to make assurance doubly sure. But there is nothing
upon the floor, nothing upon the table, nothing in the bay-window,
nothing upon the sofa, nor in the huge carved chairs; there is nothing
that proves the treachery she suspects. But her restless eye leads her
springing foot from one corner of the chamber to the other. Speed
increases with the lessening chance of proof; the eye flashes more and
more fiercely; the breast heaves; the hand clinches; the cheek burns,
until, suddenly, in the very moment of despair, having as yet spoken
no word, she comes to the table, sees the candle, which still smokes,
and drawing herself up with fearful calmness, her cheeks grow pallid,
the lips livid, the hands relax, the eye deadens as with a blow, and,
with the despairing conviction that she is betrayed, her heart-break
sighs itself out in a cold whisper, "_Elle fume encore_".

In this she is as purely dramatic as in other plays she is classical.
But neither in the one nor the other is there a look, or a gesture, or
a word, which is not harmonious with the spirit of the style and the
character of the person represented.

This is pure passion as the other is implacable fate. There is
something so tearfully human in it that you are touched as by a
picture of the Magdalen. Every representation of Rachel is preserved
in your memory with the first sights of the great statues and the
famous pictures.

In the French translation of Schiller's "Mary Stuart", a character
which may be supposed especially to interest Americans and English,
Rachel is not less excellent. The sad grace, the tender resignation,
the poetic enthusiasm, the petulant caprice, the wilful, lovely
womanliness of the lovely queen, are made tragically real by her
representation. Perhaps it is not the Mary of Mignet nor of history.
But Mary Queen of Scots is one of the characters which the imagination
has chosen to take from history and decorate with immortal grace. It
cares less for what the woman Mary was, than to have a figure standing
upon the fact of history, but radiant with the beauty of poetry. It
has invested her with a loveliness that is perhaps unreal, with a
tenderness and sweetness that were possibly foreign to her character,
and with a general fascination and good intention which a contemporary
might not have discovered.

It has made her the ideal of unfortunate womanhood. For it seemed that
a fate so tragic deserved a fame so fair. Perhaps the weakness which
Mary had, and which Lady Jane Grey had not, have been the very reasons
why the unfortunate, unhappy Queen Mary is dearer to our human
sympathies than the unfortunate Lady Jane. Perhaps because it was a
woman who pursued her, the instinct of men has sought to restore, by
the canonization of Mary, the womanly ideal injured by Elizabeth.

But, whatever be the reason, there is no question that we judge Mary
Queen of Scots more by the imagination than by historical rigor; and
it is Mary, as the mind insists upon having her, that Rachel
represents. She conspires with the imagination to complete the ideal
of Mary. It is a story told in sad music to which we listen; it is a
mournful panorama, unfolding itself scene by scene, upon which we
gaze. Lost in soft melancholy, the figures of the drama move before us
as in a tragic dream. But after seeing Rachel's Mary we can see no
other. If we meet her in history or romance, it is always that figure,
those pensive eyes, forecasting a fearful doom, that voice whose music
is cast in a hopeless minor. It is thus that dramatic genius creates,
and poetry disputes with history.

Jules Janin says that Rachel is best in those parts of this play where
the anger of the Queen is more prominent than the grief of the woman.

This is true to a certain extent. It was not difficult to see that the
fierceness was more natural than the tenderness to the woman Rachel,
and that, therefore, those parts had a reality which the tenderness
had not. But the performance was symmetrical, and, so far as the mere
acting was concerned, the woman was as well rendered as the Queen. The
want of the spectacle was this, and it is, we fully grant, the defect
of all her similar personations: you felt that it was only intellect
feigning heart, though with perfect success. The tenderness and
caprice of the woman, and the pride and dignity of the Queen, are all
there. She would not be the consummate artist she is if she could not
give them. But even through your tears you see that it is art. It is,
indeed, concealed by its own perfection, but it is not lost in the
loveliness of the character it suggests, as might be the case with a
greatly inferior artist. You are half sure, as you own the excellence,
that much of the tender effect arises from your feeling that Rachel,
as she represents a woman so different from herself, regards her rle
with sad longing and vague regret. When we say that she is the ideal
Mary, we mean strictly the artistic ideal.

The late Charlotte Bront, in her novel of _Villette_, has described
Rachel with a splendor of rhetoric that is very unusual with the
author of _Jane Eyre_. But in the style of the description it is very
easy to see the influence of the thing described. It has a picturesque
stateliness, a grave grace and musical pomp, which all belong to the
genius of Rachel. Even the soft gloom of her eyes is in it; a gloom
and a fire which no one could more subtly feel than Miss Bront. Her
description is the best that we have seen of what is, in its nature,
after all indescribable.

As the fame of an actor or singer is necessarily traditional, and
rapidly perishes, it is not easy to compare one with another when they
are not contemporaries, for you find yourself only comparing vague
impressions and reports. Of Roscius and Betterton we must accept the
names and allow the fame. We can see Reynolds's pictures, we can hear
Handel's music, we can read Goldsmith's and Johnson's books; but of
Garrick what can we have but a name, and somebody's account of what he
thought of Garrick? The touch of Shakespeare we can feel as well as
did our ancestors, and our great-grandchildren's great-grandchildren
will feel it as fully as we. But the voice of Malibran lingers in only
a few happy memories, and we know Mrs. Siddons better by Sir Joshua's
portrait than by her own glories.

It is, therefore, impossible to decide what relative rank among
actresses Rachel occupies. Mrs. Jameson, in her _Common-Place Book of
Thoughts, Memories, and Fancies_, says some sharp things of her, and
Mrs. Jameson is a critic of too delicate a mind not to be heeded. The
general view she takes of Rachel is, that she is not a great artist in
the true sense of the word. She is a finished actress, but not an
artist fine enough to conceal her art. The last scene of "Adrienne
Lecouvreur" seems to Mrs. Jameson a mistake and a failure--so beyond
the limits of art, a mere imitation of a repulsive physical fact; and
finally she pronounces that Rachel has talent but not genius; while it
is the "entire absence of the high poetic element which distinguishes
Rachel as an actress, and places her at such an immeasurable distance
from Mrs. Siddons, that it shocks me to hear their names together".

It may be fairly questioned, whether a woman so refined and cultivated
as Mrs. Jameson may not have judged Rachel rather by her wants as a
woman than by her excellence as an artist. That the terrible last
scene of "Adrienne" is a harrowing imitation of nature we have
conceded. The play is, in truth, a mere melodrama. It is a vaudeville
of costume, with a frightful catastrophe appended. But as an artist
she seems to us perfectly to render the part. She does not make it
more than it is, but she makes it just what it is--a proud, injured,
and betrayed actress. Whether the accuracy of her imitation is not
justified by the intention, which alone can redeem imitation, will
remain a question to each spectator. Mrs. Jameson also insists that
Rachel's power is extraneous, and excites only the senses and the
intellect, and that she has become a hard mannerist.

In our remarks upon this celebrated actress we have viewed her simply
as an artist, and not as a woman. She appeals to the public only in
that way. Perhaps the sinister stories that are told of her private
career only serve to confirm and deepen the feeling of the intensity
of her nature, she so skilfully represents the most fearful passions,
not from the perception of genius alone, but from the knowledge of
actual experience. Certainly no woman's character has been more freely
discussed, and no public performer of any kind ever sought so little
to propitiate her audience. She has seemed to scorn the world she
fascinated; and like a superb snake, with glittering eyes and cold
crest, to gloat over the terror which held her captives thrall. Hence
it is not surprising to one who has seen her a great deal, and has
felt the peculiarity of her power, to find in Lehmann's portrait of
her--which is, perhaps, the most characteristic of all that have been
taken--a subtle resemblance to a serpent, which is at once fascinating
and startling. Mrs. Jameson mentions that when she first saw her in
Hermione, she was reminded of a Lamia, or serpent nature in woman's
form. As you look at Lehmann's portrait this feeling is irresistible.
The head bends slightly forward, with a darting, eager movement, yet
with a fine, lithe grace. The keen, bright eyes glance a little
askance, with a want of free confidence. There are a slim smoothness,
a silent alertness, in the general impression--a nervous, susceptible
intentness, united with undeniable beauty, that recall the deadly
nightshade among flowers and Keats's "Lamia" among poems. The portrait
would fully interpret the poem, She looked the lovely Lamia upon the
verge of flight, at the instant when she felt the calm, inexorable eye
of criticism and detection. In a moment, while you gaze, that form
will be prone, those bright, cold eyes malignant, that wily grace will
undulate into motion and glide away. You feel that there is no human
depravity that Rachel could not adequately represent. Perhaps you
doubt if she could be Desdemona or Imogen.

Rachel is great, but there is something greater. It is not an entirely
satisfactory display of human power, even in its own way. Her triumph
is that of an actress. It is only an intellectual success. For however
subtly dramatic genius may seize and represent the forms of human
emotion, yet the representation is most perfect--not, indeed, as art,
but as a satisfaction of the heart--when the personal character of the
artist interests those emotions to himself, and thus sympathetically
affects the audience. Rachel's Mary is a perfect portrait of Mary; but
it is only a picture, after all, that expresses the difference in
feeling between the impression of her personation and that which will
be derived from another woman. The fiercer and darker passions of
human nature are depicted by her with terrible force-power. They throb
with reality; but in the soft, superior shades you still feel that it
is emotion, intellectually discerned.

Such facts easily explain the present defection of Paris from Rachel.
Ristori has come up from Italy, and with one woman's smile, "full of
the warm South", she has lured Paris to her feet. There is no more
sudden and entire desertion of a favorite recorded in all the annals
of popular caprice. The feuilletonists, who are a power in Paris, have
gone over in a body to the beautiful Italian. They describe her
triumphs precisely as they described Rachel's. The old ecstasies are
burnished up for the new occasion. In a country like ours, where there
is no theatre, and where the dramatic differences only creep into an
advertisement, such an excitement as Paris feels, from such a cause
and at such a time, is simply incredible. It is, possibly, as real and
dignified an excitement as that which New York experienced upon the
decease of the late lamented William Poole.

There are various explanations of this fall of Rachel, without
resorting to the theory of superior genius in Ristori. Undoubtedly
Paris loves novelty, and has been impatient of the disdainful sway of
Rachel. Her reputed avarice and want of courtesy and generosity, her
total failure to charm as a woman while she fascinated as an artist,
have, naturally enough, after many years, fatigued the patience and
disappointed the humane sympathies of a public whose mere curiosity
had been long satisfied. Rachel seemed only more Parisian than Paris.

But when over the Alps came Ristori, lovely as a woman and eminent as
an artist, then there was a new person who could make Paris weep at
her greatness upon the stage, and her goodness away from it; who, in
the plenitude of her first success, could shame the reported avarice
of her fallen rival by offers of the sincerest generosity. When
Ristori came, who seemed to have a virtue for every vice of Rachel,
Paris, with one accord, hurried with hymns and incense to the new
divinity. We regard it as a homage to the woman no less than a tribute
to the artist. We regard it as saying to Rachel that if, being humane
and lovely, she chose, from pride, to rule by scornful superiority,
she has greatly erred; or if, being really unlovely, she has held this
crown only by her genius, she has yet to see human nature justify
itself by preferring a humane to an inhuman power. The most splendid
illustration of this kind of homage was the career of Jenny Lind in
America. It was rather the fashion among the _dilettanti_ to
undervalue her excellence as an artist. A popular superficial
criticism was fond of limiting her dramatic power to inferior rles.
She was denied passion and great artistic skill; she was accused of
tricks. But, even had these things been true, what a career it was! It
was unprecedented, and can never be repeated. Yet it was, at bottom,
the success of a saint rather than that of a singer. Had she been a
worse or better artist the homage would have been the same. If the
public--and it is a happy fact--can love the woman even more than it
admires the artist, her triumph is assured.

We look upon the enthusiasm for Ristori by no means as an unmingled
tribute to superior genius. We make no question of her actual womanly
charms. Even if appearance of generosity, of simplicity, and sweetness
were only deep Italian wile, and assumed, upon profound observation
and consideration of human nature and the circumstances of Rachel's
position in Paris, merely for the purpose of exciting applause, that
applause would still be genuine, and would prove the loyalty of the
public mind to what is truly lovely. It was our good-fortune to see
Ristori in Italy, where, for the last ten years, she has been
accounted the first Italian actress. She has there been seen by all
the travelling world of Europe and America. It is not possible that so
great a talent, as the Parisians consider it, could have been so long
overlooked. We well remember Ristori as a charming, natural, simple
actress; but of the surpassing power which Paris has discovered
probably very few of us retain any recollection.




THACKERAY IN AMERICA


Mr. Thackeray's visit at least demonstrates that if we are unwilling
to pay English authors for their books, we are ready to reward them
handsomely for the opportunity of seeing and hearing them. If Mr.
Dickens, instead of dining at other people's expense, and making
speeches at his own, when he came to see us, had devoted an evening or
two in the week to lecturing, his purse would have been fuller, his
feelings sweeter, and his fame fairer. It was a Quixotic crusade, that
of the Copyright, and the excellent Don has never forgiven the
windmill that broke his spear.

Undoubtedly, when it was ascertained that Mr. Thackeray was coming,
the public feeling on this side of the sea was very much divided as to
his probable reception. "He'll come and humbug us, eat our dinners,
pocket our money, and go home and abuse us, like that unmitigated snob
Dickens," said Jonathan, chafing with the remembrance of that grand
ball at the Park Theatre and the Boz tableaux, and the universal
wining and dining, to which the distinguished Dickens was subject
while he was our guest.

"Let him have his say," said others, "and we will have our look. We
will pay a dollar to hear him, if we can see him at the same time; and
as for the abuse, why, it takes even more than two such cubs of the
roaring British Lion to frighten the American Eagle. Let him come, and
give him fair play."

He did come, and had fair play, and returned to England with a
comfortable pot of gold holding $12.000, and with the hope and promise
of seeing us again in September, to discourse of something not less
entertaining than the witty men and sparkling times of Anne. We think
there was no disappointment with his lectures. Those who knew his
books found the author in the lecturer. Those who did not know his
books were charmed in the lecturer by what is charming in the
author--the unaffected humanity, the tenderness, the sweetness, the
genial play of fancy, and the sad touch of truth, with that glancing
stroke of satire which, lightning-like, illumines while it withers.
The lectures were even more delightful than the books, because the
tone of the voice and the appearance of the man, the general personal
magnetism, explained and alleviated so much that would otherwise have
seemed doubtful or unfair. For those who had long felt in the writings
of Thackeray a reality quite inexpressible, there was a secret delight
in finding it justified in his speaking; for he speaks as he writes
-simply, directly, without flourish, without any cant of oratory,
commending what he says by its intrinsic sense, and the sympathetic
and humane way in which it was spoken. Thackeray is the kind of "stump
orator" that would have pleased Carlyle. He never thrusts himself
between you and his thought. If his conception of the time and his
estimate of the men differ from your own, yon have at least no doubt
what his view is, nor how sincere and necessary it is to him. Mr.
Thackeray considers Swift a misanthrope; he loves Goldsmith and Steele
and Harry Fielding; he has no love for Sterne, great admiration for
Pope, and alleviated admiration for Addison. How could it be otherwise?
How could Thackeray not think Swift a misanthrope and Sterne a factitious
sentimentalist? He is a man of instincts, not of thoughts: he sees and
feels. He would be Shakespeare's call-boy, rather than dine with the
Dean of St. Patrick's. He would take a pot of ale with Goldsmith, rather
than a glass of burgundy with the "Reverend Mr. Sterne", and that simply
because he is Thackeray. He would have done it as Fielding would have
done it, because he values one genuine emotion above the most dazzling
thought; because he is, in fine, a Bohemian, "a minion of the moon", a
great, sweet, generous heart.

We say this with more unction now that we have personal proof of it in
his public and private intercourse while he was here.

The popular Thackeray-theory, before his arrival, was of a severe
satirist, who concealed scalpels in his sleeves and carried probes in
his waistcoat pockets; a wearer of masks; a scoffer and sneerer, and
general infidel of all high aims and noble character. Certainly we are
justified in saying that his presence among us quite corrected this
idea. We welcomed a friendly, genial man; not at all convinced that
speech is heaven's first law, but willing to be silent when there is
nothing to say; who decidedly refused to be lionized--not by sulking,
but by stepping off the pedestal and challenging the common sympathies
of all he met; a man who, in view of the thirty-odd editions of Martin
Farquhar Tupper, was willing to confess that every author should
"think small-beer of himself". Indeed, he has this rare quality, that
his personal impression deepens, in kind, that of his writings. The
quiet and comprehensive grasp of the fact, and the intellectual
impossibility of holding fast anything but the fact, is as manifest in
the essayist upon the wits as in the author of _Henry Esmond_ and
_Vanity Fair_. Shall we say that this is the sum of his power, and the
secret of his satire? It is not what might be, nor what we or other
persons of well-regulated minds might wish, but it is the actual state
of things that he sees and describes. How, then, can he help what we
call satire, if he accept Mrs. Rawdon Crawley's invitation and
describe her party? There was no more satire in it, so far as he is
concerned, than in painting lilies white. A full-length portrait of
the fair Lady Beatrix, too, must needs show a gay and vivid figure,
superbly glittering across the vista of those stately days. Then,
should Dab and Tab, the eminent critics, step up and demand that her
eyes be a pale blue, and her stomacher higher around the neck? Do Dab
and Tab expect to gather pears from peach-trees? Or, because their
theory of dendrology convinces them that an ideal fruit-tree would
supply any fruit desired upon application, do they denounce the
non-pear-bearing peach-tree in the columns of their valuable journal?
This is the drift of the fault found with Thackeray. He is not
Fnlon, he is not Dickens, he is not Scott; he is not poetical, he is
not ideal, he is not humane; he is not Tit, he is not Tat, complain
the eminent Dabs and Tabs. Of course he is not, because he is
Thackeray--a man who describes what he sees, motives as well as
appearances--a man who believes that character is better than
talent--that there is a worldly weakness superior to worldly
wisdom--that Dick Steele may haunt the ale-house and be carried home
muzzy, and yet be a more commendable character than the reverend Dean
of St. Patrick's, who has genius enough to illuminate a century, but
not sympathy enough to sweeten a drop of beer. And he represents this
in a way that makes us see it as he does, and without exaggeration;
for surely nothing could be more simple than his story of the life of
"honest Dick Steele". If he allotted to that gentleman a consideration
disproportioned to the space he occupies in literary history, it only
showed the more strikingly how deeply the writer-lecturer's sympathy
was touched by Steele's honest humanity.

An article in our April number complained that the tendency of his
view of Anne's times was to a social laxity, which might be very
exhilarating but was very dangerous; that the lecturer's warm
commendation of fermented drinks, taken at a very early hour of the
morning in tavern-rooms and club houses, was as deleterious to the
moral health of enthusiastic young readers disposed to the literary
life as the beverage itself to their physical health.

But this is not a charge to be brought against Thackeray. It is a
quarrel with history and with the nature of literary life. Artists and
authors have always been the good fellows of the world. That mental
organization which predisposes a man to the pursuit of literature and
art is made up of talent combined with ardent social sympathy,
geniality, and passion, and leads him to taste every cup and try every
experience. There is certainly no essential necessity that this class
should be a dissipated and disreputable class, but by their very
susceptibility to enjoyment they will always be the pleasure lovers
and seekers. And here is the social compensation to the literary man
for the surrender of those chances of fortune which men of other
pursuits enjoy. If he makes less money, he makes more juice out of
what he does make. If he cannot drink Burgundy he can quaff the
nut-brown ale; while the most brilliant wit, the most salient fancy,
the sweetest sympathy, the most genial culture, shall sparkle at his
board more radiantly than a silver service, and give him the spirit of
the tropics and the Rhine, whose fruits are on other tables. The
golden light that transfigures talent and illuminates the world, and
which we call genius, is erratic and erotic; and while in Milton it is
austere, and in Wordsworth cool, and in Southey methodical, in
Shakespeare it is fervent, with all the results of fervor; in Raphael
lovely, with all the excesses of love; in Dante moody, with all the
whims of caprice. The old quarrel of Lombard Street with Grub Street
is as profound as that of Osiris and Typho--it is the difference of
sympathy. The Marquis of Westminster will take good care that no
superfluous shilling escapes. Oliver Goldsmith will still spend his
last shilling upon a brave and unnecessary banquet to his friends.

Whether this be a final fact of human organization or not, it is
certainly a fact of history. Every man instinctively believes that
Shakespeare stole deer, just as he disbelieves that Lord-mayor
Whittington ever told a lie; and the secret of that instinct is the
consciousness of the difference in organization. "Knave, I have the
power to hang ye," says somebody in one of Beaumont and Fletcher's
plays. "And I do be hanged and scorn ye," is the airy answer. "I had a
pleasant hour the other evening," said a friend to us, "over my cigar
and a book." "What book was that?" "A treatise conclusively proving
the awful consequences of smoking." De Quincey came up to London and
declared war upon opium; but during a little amnesty, in which he
lapsed into his old elysium, he wrote his best book depicting its
horrors.

Our readers will not imagine that we are advocating the claims of
drunkenness nor defending social excess. We are only recognizing a
fact and stating an obvious tendency. The most brilliant illustrations
of every virtue are to be found in the literary guild, as well as the
saddest beacons of warning; yet it will often occur that the last in
talent and the first in excess of a picked company will be a man around
whom sympathy most kindly lingers. We love Goldsmith more at the head
of an ill-advised feast than Johnson and his friends leaving it,
thoughtful and generous as their conduct was. The heart despises
prudence.

In the single-hearted regard we know that pity has a larger share. Yet
it is not so much that pity is commiseration for misfortune and
deficiency, as that which is recognition of a necessary worldly
ignorance. The literary class is the most innocent of all. The
contempt of practical men for the poets is based upon a consciousness
that they are not bad enough for a bad world. To a practical man
nothing is so absurd as the lack of worldly shrewdness. The very
complaint of the literary life that it does not amass wealth and live
in palaces is the scorn of the practical man, for he cannot understand
that intellectual opacity which prevents the literary man from seeing
the necessity of the different pecuniary condition. It is clear enough
to the publisher who lays up fifty thousand a year why the author ends
the year in debt. But the author is amazed that he who deals in ideas
can only dine upon occasional chops, while the man who merely binds
and sells ideas sits down to perpetual sirloin. If they should change
places, fortune would change with them. The publisher turned author
would still lay up his thousands; the publishing author would still
directly lose thousands. It is simply because it is a matter of
prudence, economy, and knowledge of the world. Thomas Hood made his
ten thousand dollars a year, but if he lived at the rate of fifteen
thousand he would hardly die rich. Mr. Jerdan, a gentleman who, in his
_Autobiography_, advises energetic youth to betake themselves to the
highway rather than to literature, was, we understand, in the receipt
of an easy income, and was a welcome guest in pleasant houses; but
living in a careless, shiftless, extravagant way, he was presently
poor, and, instead of giving his memoirs the motto, _peccavi_,
and inditing a warning, he dashes off a truculent defiance. Practical
publishers and practical men of all sorts invest their earnings in
Michigan Central or Cincinnati and Dayton instead, in steady works and
devoted days, and reap a pleasant harvest of dividends. Our friends
the authors invest in prime Havanas, Rhenish, in oyster suppers, love
and leisure, and divide a heavy percentage of headache, dyspepsia, and
debt.

This is as true a view, from another point, as the one we have already
taken. If the literary life has the pleasures of freedom, it has also
its pains. It may be willing to resign the queen's drawing-room, with
the illustrious galaxy of stars and garters, for the chamber with a
party nobler than the nobility. The author's success is of a wholly
different kind from that of the publisher, and he is thoughtless who
demands both. Mr. Roe, who sells sugar, naturally complains that Mr.
Doe, who sells molasses, makes money more rapidly. But Mr. Tennyson,
who writes poems, can hardly make the same complaint of Mr. Moxon, who
publishes them, as was very fairly shown in a number of the
_Westminster Review_, when noticing Mr. Jordan's book.

What we have said is strictly related to Mr. Thackeray's lectures,
which discuss literature. All the men he commemorated were
illustrations and exponents of the career of letters. They all, in
various ways, showed the various phenomena of the temperament. And
when in treating of them the critic came to Steele, he found one who
was one of the most striking illustrations of one of the most
universal aspects of literary life--the simple-hearted, unsuspicious,
gay gallant and genial gentleman; ready with his sword or his pen,
with a smile or a tear, the fair representative of the social tendency
of his life. It seems to us that the Thackeray theory--the conclusion
that he is a man who loves to depict madness, and has no sensibilities
to the finer qualities of character--crumbled quite away before that
lecture upon Steele. We know that it was not considered the best; we
know that many of the delighted audience were not sufficiently
familiar with literary history fully to understand the position of the
man in the lecturer's review; but, as a key to Thackeray, it was,
perhaps, the most valuable of all. We know in literature of no more
gentle treatment; we have not often encountered in men of the most
rigorous and acknowledged virtue such humane tenderness; we have not
often heard from the most clerical lips words of such genuine
Christianity. Steele's was a character which makes weakness amiable:
it was a weakness, if you will, but it was certainly amiability, and
it was a combination more attractive than many full-panoplied
excellences. It was not presented as a model. Captain Steele in the
tap-room was not painted as the ideal of virtuous manhood; but it
certainly was intimated that many admirable things were consonant with
a free use of beer. It was frankly stated that if, in that character,
virtue abounded, cakes and ale did much more abound. Captain Richard
Steele might have behaved much better than he did, but we should then
have never heard of him. A few fine essays do not float a man into
immortality, but the generous character, the heart sweet in all
excesses and under all chances, is a spectacle too beautiful and too
rare to be easily forgotten. A man is better than many books. Even a
man who is not immaculate may have more virtuous influence than the
discreetest saint. Let us remember how fondly the old painters
lingered round the story of Magdalen, and thank Thackeray for his
full-length Steele.

We conceive this to be the chief result of Thackeray's visit, that he
convinced us of his intellectual integrity; he showed us how
impossible it is for him to see the world and describe it other than
he does. He does not profess cynicism, nor satirize society with
malice; there is no man more humble, none more simple; his interests
are human and concrete, not abstract. We have already said that he
looks through and through at the fact. It is easy enough, and at some
future time it will be done, to deduce the peculiarity of his writings
from the character of his mind. There is no man who masks so little as
he in assuming the author. His books are his observations reduced to
writing. It seems to us as singular to demand that Dante should be
like Shakespeare as to quarrel with Thackeray's want of what is called
ideal portraiture. Even if you thought, from reading his _Vanity
Fair_, that he had no conception of noble women, certainly after the
lecture upon Swift, after all the lectures, in which every allusion to
women was so manly and delicate and sympathetic, you thought so no
longer. It is clear that his sympathy is attracted to women--to that
which is essentially womanly, feminine. Qualities common to both sexes
do not necessarily charm him because he finds them in women. A certain
degree of goodness must always be assumed. It is only the rare
flowering that inspires special praise. You call Amelia's fondness for
George Osborne foolish, fond idolatry. Thackeray smiles, as if all
love were not idolatry of the fondest foolishness. What was
Hero's--what was Francesco di Rimini's--what was Juliet's? They might
have been more brilliant women than Amelia, and their idols of a
larger mould than George, but the love was the same old foolish, fond
idolatry. The passion of love and a profound and sensible knowledge,
regard based upon prodigious knowledge of character and appreciation
of talent, are different things. What is the historic and poetic
splendor of love but the very fact, which constantly appears in
Thackeray's stories, namely, that it is a glory which dazzles and
blinds. Men rarely love the women they ought to love, according to the
ideal standards. It is this that makes the plot and mystery of life.
Is it not the perpetual surprise of all Jane's friends that she should
love Timothy instead of Thomas? and is not the courtly and
accomplished Thomas sure to surrender to some accidental Lucy without
position, wealth, style, worth, culture--without anything but heart?
This is the fact, and it reappears in Thackeray, and it gives his
books that air of reality which they possess beyond all modern story.

And it is this single perception of the fact which, simple as it is,
is the rarest intellectual quality that made his lectures so
interesting. The sun rose again upon the vanished century, and lighted
those historic streets. The wits of Queen Anne ruled the hour, and we
were bidden to their feast. Much reading of history and memoirs had
not so sent the blood into those old English cheeks, and so moved
those limbs in proper measure, as these swift glances through the eyes
of genius. It was because, true to himself, Thackeray gave us his
impression of those wits as men rather than authors. For he loves
character more than thought. He is a man of the world, and not a
scholar. He interprets the author by the man. When you are made
intimate with young Swift, Sir William Temple's saturnine secretary,
you more intelligently appreciate the Dean of St. Patrick's. When the
surplice of Mr. Sterne is raised a little, more is seen than the
reverend gentleman intends. Hogarth, the bluff Londoner, necessarily
depicts a bluff, coarse, obvious morality. The hearty Fielding, the
cool Addison, the genial Goldsmith, these are the figures that remain
in memory, and their works are valuable as they indicate the man.

Mr. Thackeray's success was very great. He did not visit the West, nor
Canada. He went home without seeing Niagara Falls. But wherever he did
go he found a generous and social welcome, and a respectful and
sympathetic hearing. He came to fulfil no mission, but he certainly
knit more closely our sympathy with Englishmen. Heralded by various
romantic memoirs, he smiled at them, stoutly asserted that he had been
always able to command a good dinner, and to pay for it; nor did he
seek to disguise that he hoped his American tour would help him to
command and pay for more. He promised not to write a book about us, but
we hope he will, for we can ill spare the criticism of such an observer.
At least, we may be sure that the material gathered here will be worked
up in some way. He found that we were not savages nor bores. He found
that there were a hundred here for every score in England who knew
well and loved the men of whom he spoke. He found that the same red
blood colors all the lips that speak the language he so nobly praised.
He found friends instead of critics. He found those who, loving the
author, loved the man more. He found a quiet welcome from those who
are waiting to welcome him again and as sincerely.




SIR PHILIP SIDNEY


Wearied of the world and saddened by the ruin of his fortunes, the
Italian Count Maddalo turned from the street, which rang with tales of
disaster and swarmed with melancholy faces, into his palace. Perplexed
and anxious, he passed through the stately rooms in which hung the
portraits of generations of ancestors. The day was hot; his blood was
feverish, but the pictures seemed to him cool and remote in a holy
calm. He looked at them earnestly; he remembered the long history of
which his fathers were parts, he recalled their valor and their
patience, and asked himself whether, after all, their manhood was not
their patent of nobility; and stretching out his hands towards them,
exclaimed: "Let me feel that I am indeed your son by sharing that
manhood which made you noble."

We Americans laugh at ancestors; and if the best of them came back
again, we should be as likely to laugh at his wig as listen to his
wisdom. And in our evanescent houses and uneasy life we would no more
have ancient ranges of family pictures than Arabs in their tents. Yet
we are constantly building and visiting the greatest portrait gallery
of all in the histories we write and read; and the hour is never lost
which we give to it. It may teach a maid humility to know that her
mother was fairer. It may make a youth more modest to know that his
grandsire was braver. For if the pictures of history show us that
deformity is as old as grace, and that virtue was always martyred,
they also show that crime, however prosperous for a time, is at last
disastrous, and that there can be no permanent peace without justice
and freedom.

Those pictures teach us also that character is inherited like name and
treasure, and that all of us may have famous or infamous ancestors
perhaps without knowing it. The melancholy poet, eating his own heart
out in a city garret, is the child of Tasso. Grinding Ralph Nickleby,
the usurer, is Shylock's grandson. The unjust judge, who declares that
some men have no rights which others are bound to respect, is a later
Jeffries on his bloody assizes, or dooming Algernon Sidney to the block
once more for loving liberty; while he whose dull heart among the new
duties of another time is never quickened with public spirit, and who
as a citizen aims only at his own selfish advantage, is a later Benedict
Arnold whom every generous heart despises.

From this lineage of character arises this great convenience--that as
it is bad manners to criticise our neighbors by name, we may hit them
many a sly rap over the shoulders of their ancestors who wore turbans,
or helmets, or bagwigs, and lived long ago in other countries. The
Church especially finds great comfort in this resource, and the backs
of the whole Hebrew race must be sore with the scorings they get for
the sins of Christian congregations. The timid Peter, the foolish
Virgins, the wicked Herod, are pilloried every Sunday in the pulpit,
to the great satisfaction of the Peters, Virgins, and Herods dozing in
the pews. But when some ardent preacher, heading out of his metaphors,
and jumping from Judea and the first century into the United States
and the nineteenth, disturbs Peter's enjoyment of his ancestor's
castigation by saying vehemently to his face with all the lightning of
the law in his eye, and its thunders in his voice, "Thou art the man!"
Peter recoils with decorous horror, begs his pastor to remember that
he and Herod are sheep who were to be led by still waters; warns him
not to bring politics into the pulpit, to talk not of living people,
but of old pictures. So the poor shepherd is driven back to his
pictures, and cudgels Peter once more from behind a metaphor.

But the fairest use of these old pictures is to make us feel our
common humanity, and to discover that what seems to us a hopelessly
romantic ideal of character is a familiar fact of every day. Heroism
is always the same, however the fashion of a hero's clothes may alter.
Every hero in history is as near to a man as his neighbor, and if we
should tell the simple truth of some of our neighbors, it would sound
like poetry. Sir Philip Sidney wore doublet and hose, and died in
Flanders three hundred years ago. His name is the synonym of manly
honor, of generous scholarship, of the finest nobility, of the
spiritual light that most irradiates human nature. Look at his portrait
closely; it is no stranger that you see; it is no far-off Englishman.
It is your friend, your son, your brother, your lover. Whoever knew
Wendell Phillips knew Philip Sidney. It is the same spirit in a thousand
forms; a perpetual presence, a constant benediction: Look at his
portrait and

 "The night shall be filled with music,
    And the cares that infest the day
  Shall fold their tents like the Arabs,
    And as silently steal away."

The gray walls, the red and peaked roof of the old house of Penshurst,
stand in the pleasant English valley of the Medway, in soft and
showery Kent. Kent is all garden, and there, in November, 1554, Philip
Sidney was born. His father, Sir Henry Sidney, was a wise and honest
man. Bred at court, his sturdy honor was never corrupted. King Edward
died in his arms, and Queen Mary confirmed all his honors and offices
three weeks before the birth of his oldest son, whom, in gratitude, he
named Philip, for the queen's new Spanish husband. Philip's mother was
Mary Dudley, daughter of the Duke of Northumberland, sister of the
famous Earl of Leicester, sister also of Lord Guildford Dudley and
sister-in-law of Lady Jane Grey. The little Philip was born into a sad
household. Within fifteen months his grandfather and uncle had been
beheaded for treason; and his sorrowing mother, a truly noble and tender
woman, had been the victim of small-pox, and hid her grieving heart and
poor scarred face in the silence and seclusion of Penshurst. On the
south side of the house was the old garden or plaisance, sloping down
to the Medway, where, in those English summers of three hundred years
ago, when the cruel fires of Mary were busily burning at Smithfield,
the lovely boy Philip, fair-featured, with a high forehead and ruddy
brown hair, almost red--the same color as that of his nephew Algernon--
walked with his shy mother, picking daisies and chasing butterflies,
and calling to her in a soft, musical voice; while within the house
the grave father, when he was not away in Wales, of which he was lord-
president, mused upon great events that were stirring in Europe--the
abdication of Charles V., the fall of Calais, and the accession of
Queen Elizabeth to the throne of England. The lordly banqueting-hall,
in which the politics of three centuries ago were discussed at Penshurst,
is still standing. You may still sit upon the wooden benches where
Burleigh, Spenser, Ben Jonson, James I., and his son Prince Charles
have sat, and where, a little later, the victim of Prince Charles's
cruel son, Algernon Sidney, dreamed of noble manhood and went forth a
noble man; while in those shady avenues of beech and oak outside,
smooth Edmund Waller bowed and smirked, and sighed compliments to his
Sacharissa, as he called Dorothy Sidney, Algernon's sister.

At the age of eleven Master Sidney was put to school at Shrewsbury, on
the borders of Wales, of which country his father was lord-president.
His fond friend, Fulke Greville, who was here at school with him, and
afterwards wrote his life, says that even the masters found something
in him to observe and learn. Study probably cost him little effort and
few tears. We may be sure he stood at the head of his class, and was a
grave, good boy--not good as calves and blanc-mange are, but like wine
and oak saplings. "My little Philip," as his mother tenderly calls
him, was no Miss Nancy. When he was older he wrote to his brother
Robert, then upon his travels, that "if there were any good wars he
should go to them". So, at Shrewsbury he doubtless went to all the
good wars among his school-mates, while during the short intervals of
peace he mastered his humanities, and at last, when not yet fifteen
years old, he was entered at Christ Church, Oxford.

Great good-fortune is the most searching test of character. If a man
have fine friends, fine family, fine talents, and fine prospects, they
are very likely to be the sirens in whose sweet singing he forgets
everything but the pleasure of listening to it. If most of us had come
of famous ancestry--if our father were a vice-regal governor--if the
sovereign's favorite were our uncle, who intended us for his heir--if
a marriage were proposed with the beautiful daughter of the
prime-minister, and we were ourselves young, handsome, and
accomplished--and all this were three hundred years ago, before the
rights of men and the dignity of labor had been much discussed, we
should probably have come up to Oxford, of which our famous uncle was
chancellor, in a state of what would be called at Oxford to-day
extreme bumptiousness. But Philip Sidney was too true a gentleman not
to be a simple-hearted man; and although he was even then one of the
most accomplished as well as fortunate youths in England, he writes to
Lord Burleigh to confess with "heavy grief" that in scholarship he can
neither satisfy Burleigh's expectation nor his own desire.

In the month of May, 1572, Philip Sidney left Oxford, and after
staying a short time with his parents, following the fashion of young
gentlemen of rank, he crossed over into France in the train of the
Earl of Lincoln, who was Queen Elizabeth's extraordinary ambassador
upon the subject of her marriage with the brother of Charles IX. of
France. The young king immediately made Sidney a gentleman of the
bedchamber, and Henry of Navarre found him a fit companion for a
future king. The Paris that Sidney saw had then twice as many
inhabitants as Boston has to-day. Montaigne called it the most
beautiful city in the world, and it had a delusive air of peace. But
the witch Catherine de' Medici sat in the smooth-tongued court like a
spider in its web, spinning and spinning the meshes in which the hope
of liberty was to be entangled. The gay city filled and glittered with
the wedding guests of Henry and the king's sister Margaret--among
others, the hero of St. Quentin,

Admiral Coligny. Gayer and gayer grew the city--smoother and smoother
the court--faster and faster spun the black Italian spider--until on
the 23d of August, the Eve of St. Bartholomew, the bloodiest deed in
all the red annals of that metropolis was done, and the young Sidney
looked shuddering from Walsingham House upon the streets reeking with
the blood of his fellow Huguenots.

That night made Philip Sidney a man. He heard the applause of the
Romish party ring through Europe--he heard the commendation of Philip
of Spain--he knew that the most eloquent orator of the Church,
Muretus, had congratulated the pope upon this signal victory of the
truth. He knew that medals were stamped in commemoration of the brutal
massacre, and he remembered that the same spirit that had struck at
the gray head of Coligny had also murdered Egmont and Home in the
Netherlands; had calmly gazed in the person of Philip upon De Sezo
perishing in the fire, and by the hand of Philip had denounced death
against all who wrote, sold, or read Protestant books; and he knew
that the same spirit, in the most thriving and intelligent country of
Europe, the Netherlands, was blotting out prosperity in blood, and had
driven at least a hundred thousand exiles into England.

Pondering these things, Sidney left Paris, and at Frankfort met Hubert
Languet. Languet was not only a Protestant, but, at heart, a
Republican. He was the friend of Melanethon and of William of Orange,
in whose service he died. One of the most accomplished scholars and
shrewdest statesmen in Europe, honored and trusted by all the
Protestant leaders, this wise man of fifty-four was so enamoured of
the English youth of eighteen that they became life-long friends with
the ardor of lovers, and Languet left his employment, as Fulke
Greville says, "to become a nurse of knowledge to this hopeful young
gentleman".

As they travelled by easy stages across Germany, where the campaign of
Protestantism had begun, they knew that the decisive battle was yet to
be fought. Europe was silent. The tumult of Charles V.'s reign was
over, and that great monarch marched and countermarched no more from
the Baltic to the Mediterranean. Charles had been victorious so long
as he fought kings with words of steel. But the monk Martin Luther
drew the sword of the spirit, and the conqueror quailed. Luther
challenged the Church of Rome at its own door. The Vatican rained
anathemas. It might as well have tried to blow out the stars; and all
the fires of the furious popes who followed Leo were not sharp enough
to consume the colossal heresy of free thought. But king and emperor
and pope fed the fire. The reign of terror blasted the Netherlands,
and when it had succeeded there, when Italy, Austria, and Holland
surrounded the states of Germany, Philip knew it would be the smothering
coil of the serpent around the cradle of religious liberty. But the
young Hercules of free thought throttled the serpent, and leaped forth
to win his victorious and immortal race.

We can see it now, but Sidney could not know it. To him the future was
as inscrutable as our own to the eyes of thirty years ago. Yet he and
Languet must have discussed the time with curious earnestness as they
passed through Germany until they reached Vienna. There Sidney devoted
himself to knightly games, to tennis, to music, and especially to
horsemanship, which he studied with Pagliono, who, in praise of the
horse, became such a poet that in the _Defence of Poesy_ Sidney says
that if he had not been a piece of a logician before he came to him,
Pagliono would have persuaded him to wish himself a horse.

At Vienna Philip parted with Languet, and arrived in Venice in the
year 1573. The great modern days of Italy were passed. The golden age
of the Medici was gone. Lorenzo the Magnificent had died nearly a
century before, in the same year that Columbus had discovered America.
His son, Pope Leo X., had eaten his last ortolan, had flown his last
falcon, had listened to his last comedy, and hummed his last tune, in
the frescoed corridors of the Vatican. Upon its shining walls the
fatal finger of Martin Luther, stretching out of Germany, had written
"Mene, Mene." Beneath the terrible spell the walls were cracking and
the earth was shaking, but the splendid pope, in his scarlet cloud of
cardinals, saw only the wild beauty of Raphael's Madonnas and the
pleasant pages of the recovered literature of pagan Greece. When
Sidney stepped for the first time into his gondola at Venice, the
famous Italian cathedrals and stately palaces were already built, and
the great architects were gone. Dante, Boccaccio, Petrarch, who had
created Italian literature, lived about as long before Sidney as we
live after him. Cimabue and Giotto had begun; Raphael and Michel
Angelo had perfected that art in which they have had no rivals--and
they were gone. Andrea Doria steered the galleys of Genoa no more, and
since the discovery of the Cape of Good Hope and the West Indies, the
spices of the Indian sea were brought by Portuguese ships into the
Baltic instead of the Adriatic. The glory of the Lombards, who were
the first merchants of Europe, had passed away to the descendants of
their old correspondents of Bruges and Ghent, until, with its five
hundred ships daily coming and going, and on market days eight and
nine hundred; with its two thousand heavy wagons creaking every week
through the gates from France and Germany and Lorraine, Antwerp
reigned in the place of Venice, and the long twilight that has never
been broken was settling upon the Italy that Sidney saw.

But the soft splendor of its decline was worthy its prime. The
universities of Bologna and Padua, of Salerno and Pisa, had fallen
from the days when at Bologna alone there were twenty thousand
students; but they were still thronged with pupils, and taught by
renowned professors. When the young Sidney came to Venice, Titian was
just tottering into the grave, nearly a hundred years old, but still
holding the pencil which Charles V. had picked up and handed to him in
his studio. Galileo was a youth of twenty, studying mathematics at
Pisa. The melancholy Tasso was completing his _Jerusalem Delivered_
under the cypress trees of the Villa d'Este. Palestrina was composing
the masses which reformed church music, and the Christian charity of
Charles Borromeo was making him a saint before he was canonized. Clad
in the silk and velvet of Genoa, the young Englishman went to study
geometry at Padua, where twenty years later Galileo would have been
his teacher, and Sidney writes to Languet that he was perplexed
whether to sit to Paul Veronese or to Tintoretto for his portrait.

But he had a shrewd eye for the follies of travellers, and speaks of
their tendency to come home "full of disguisements not only of apparel
but of our countenances, as though the credit of a traveller stood all
upon his outside". He then adds a curious prophecy, which Shakespeare
made haste to fulfil to the very letter. Sidney says, writing in 1578,
"I think, ere it be long, like the mountebanks in Italy, we travellers
shall be made sport of in comedies." Twenty years afterwards,
Shakespeare makes Rosalind say in "As You Like It", "Farewell,
Monsieur Traveller. Look you; lisp, and wear strange suits. Disable
all the benefits of your own country. Be out of love with your
nativity, and almost chide God for making you that countenance you
are, or I will scarce think you have swam in a gondola."

But in all the gayeties and graces of his travel, Philip Sidney was
not content to be merely an elegant lounger. He never forgot for a
moment that all his gifts and accomplishments were only weapons to be
kept burnished for his country's service. He was a boy of twenty, but
his boy's warmth was tempered by the man's wisdom. "You are not over
cheerful by nature," Languet writes to him; and when Sidney sat to
Paul Veronese, and sent his friend the portrait, Languet replies: "The
painter has represented you sad and thoughtful."

He had reason to be so. He had seen the Massacre of St. Bartholomew,
as many a young Sidney among ourselves saw the horrors of Kansas
thirty years ago. He did not believe that a little timely patting on
the back was statesmanship. If Spain were crushing the Netherlands,
and hung upon the southern horizon of Europe a black and threatening
cloud, he did not believe that the danger would be averted by gagging
those who said the storm was coming. He did not hold the thermometer
responsible for the weather. "I cannot think," he wrote in May, 1574,
"there is any man possessed of common understanding who does not see
to what these rough storms are driving by which all Christendom has
been agitated now these many years." He did not suppose, as so many of
us in our ignoble days, that while men were the same, the tragical
differences which had been washed out with blood in all other ages
could be drowned in milk and water in his own.

In 1575 Sidney returned to England. Every author who writes of this
period breaks out into the most glowing praises of him. Indeed, he is
the choice darling of English history. The only discordant note in the
chorus of praise came long afterwards in the voice of the pedantic
dandy Horace Walpole, who called Goldsmith "an inspired idiot". This
is not surprising, for the earnestness and heroic simplicity of Sidney
were as incomprehensible to the affected trifler of Strawberry Hill as
the fresh enthusiasm of his nephew Arthur to Major Pendennis. The Earl
of Leicester, who seemed to love his nephew more than anything except
his own ambition, presented his brilliant young relative to the queen,
who made him her cup-bearer. Sidney was now twenty-one years old--the
finest gentleman, and one of the most accomplished scholars in
England. His learning was mainly in the classics and in languages; yet
he confesses that he could never learn German, which was then hardly
worth learning, and in his correspondence with Languet is very
distrustful of the Latin, in which language they wrote. But in urging
him to grapple with the German, Languet says to him, and it is a
striking proof of the exquisite finish of Sidney's accomplishment,
"I have watched you closely when speaking my own language (he was
a Burgundian), but I hardly ever detected you pronouncing a single
syllable wrongly."

In Sidney's time the classics had few rivals. After reading Dante,
Petrarch, Ariosto, Boccaccio, with Sanazzaro's _Arcadia_, in Italian;
Rabelais, Froissart, and Comines, in French; Chaucer, Gower, and the
_Mirror for Magistrates_ in English, what remained for an ardent young
student to devour? When Sidney came home, Montaigne--whom he probably
saw at the French court--was just writing his _Essays_ at his chateau
in the Gironde. The Portuguese Camoens had only just published his
great poem, to which his own country would not listen, and of which no
other had heard. The Italian Tasso's _Jerusalem_ was still in
manuscript, and the Spanish Ponce de Leon was little known to Europe.
All was yet to come. In Spain, Cervantes, Lope de Vega, and Calderon;
in France, Corneille and Racine and Moliere, Fenelon and Bossuet,
Rousseau and Voltaire; in Germany, everything except the Niebelungen
and Hans Sachs's rhymes. When Philip Sidney kissed Elizabeth's hand as
her cup-bearer, William Shakespeare, a boy of eleven, was grinding out
his trousers on the restless seats of the free grammar-school at
Stratford; young Francis Bacon, a youth of sixteen, was studying in
France; a poor scholar at Cambridge, Edmund Spenser was just finishing
his studies, and the younger brother of an old Devonshire family,
Walter Raleigh, had just returned from campaigning in France; indeed,
all the literature of modern times was subsequent to Philip Sidney.
The young man shone at court, fascinating men and women, courtiers,
scholars, and divines; and in a few months was made special ambassador
to condole with the Austrian emperor upon the death of his father.
Upon this embassy he departed in great state. His mission, was
supposed to be purely complimentary; but he was really the beautiful
eye with which England and Elizabeth, becoming the head of the
Protestant movement, watched the disposition of the Protestant
princes. On his way home, Sidney passed into the Low Countries to see
William of Orange. He came, resplendent with chivalric magnificence,
accompanied by the flower of English nobility, and met the grave
William, who had been the richest citizen in the Netherlands, clad in
an old serge cloak, and surrounded by plain Dutch burghers. But it was
a meeting of men of one mind and heart in the great cause, and neither
was disturbed by the tailoring of the other. The interview was the
beginning of a faithful friendship, and among all the compliments
Sidney received, none is so lofty and touching as that of William, the
greatest man in Europe, who called him in their correspondence,
"Philip, my master."

In 1577 Sidney was home again. He had a right to expect conspicuous
advancement, but he got nothing. This was the more disagreeable,
because living at Elizabeth's court was an expensive luxury for a poor
gentleman's son who had magnificent tastes. His father, Lord Henry
Sidney, was lord-deputy of Ireland, but he was also an honest man,
and, like most honest men in high public office, he was not rich. He
wrote to Philip, begging him to remember whose son, not whose nephew,
he was; for Philip's companions, the golden youth of the court, blazed
in silks and velvets and jewels, until the government had to impose
laws, as the subjects had brought luxury from Venice, and Elizabeth,
who died the happy owner of three thousand dresses, issued a solemn
proclamation against extravagance in dress.

At such a time, the brilliant nephew of Uncle Leicester would have
been a quickly ruined man if he had not been Philip Sidney. He bowed
and flirted at court, but he chafed under inaction. A marriage was
planned for him with Penelope Devereux, sister of the famous Earl of
Essex, one of the thousand fair and unfortunate women who flit across
the page of history leaving only a name, and that written in tears.
But Philip's father grew cool in the negotiation, and Philip himself
was perfectly passive. Yet when a few years afterwards the lady vas
married to Lord Rich, who abused her, Sidney loved her, and wrote the
sonnets to Stella, which are his best poetry, and which Charles Lamb
so affectionately praised.

But while he loitered at court, beating all the courtiers with their
own weapons in wit, in riding, in games, at tournament, the tales of
American discovery shed a wondrous glamour upon the new continent.
Nothing was too beautiful for belief, and the fiery feet of youth
burned the English soil with eagerness to tread the unutterable Tropics.
Francis Drake sailed from Plymouth to follow Magellan around the world,
and he went in a manner consonant with the popular fancy of the
countless riches that rewarded such adventures. His cooking-vessels
were of silver; his table-plate of exquisite workmanship. The queen
knighted him, gave him a sword, and said, "Whoever striketh at you,
Drake, striketh at us." A band of musicians accompanied the fleet,
and the English sailor went to circumnavigate the globe with the same
nonchalant magnificence with which in other days the gorgeous
Alcibiades, with flutes and soft recorders blowing under silken sails,
came idling home from victory.

Philip Sidney, his heart alive to all romance, and longing to be his
companion, saw him sail away. But he turned and saw the black Italian
spider, whose sting he had seen on Bartholomew's Eve in Paris, still
weaving her stealthy web, and seeking to entangle Elizabeth into a
match with the Duke of Anjou. The queen was forty-six, and Mounseer,
as the English called him, twenty-three; and while she was coaxing
herself to say the most fatal yes that ever woman said--when Burleigh,
Leicester, Walsingham, all the safe, sound, conservative old gentlemen
and counsellors were just ceasing to dissuade her--Philip Sidney, a
youth of twenty-five, who knew that he had a country as well as a
queen, that the hope of that country lay in the triumph of
Protestantism, and that to marry Mounseer was to abandon that hope,
and for the time betray mankind--Philip Sidney, a youth who did not
believe that he could write gravely of sober things because he had
written gayly of ladies' eyebrows, knowing as the true-hearted
gentleman always knows that to-day it may be a man's turn to sit at a
desk in an office, or bend over a book in college, or fashion a
horseshoe at the forge, or toss flowers to some beauty at her window,
and to-morrow to stand firm against a cruel church or a despotic
court, a brutal snob or an ignorant public opinion--this youth, this
immortal gentleman, wrote the letter which dissuaded her from the
marriage, and which was as noble a triumph for Protestantism and human
liberty as the defeat of the Spanish Armada.

I cannot follow this lovely life in detail, nor linger, as I would,
upon his literary retirement.

The very name of Sidney's _Arcadia_ is aromatic in the imagination,
and its traditional place in our literature is unquestioned. In our
day it is very little read, nor is it a very interesting story. But
under its quaint and courtly conceit its tone is so pure and lofty,
its courtesy and appreciation of women so hearty and honorable; it has
so fine a moral atmosphere, such noble thoughts, such stately and
beautiful descriptions, that to read it is like conversing with a
hero. So there is no better reading than the _Defence of Poesy_, that
noble hymn of loyalty to intellectual beauty. Hallam well calls Sidney
"the first good prose writer" in our language, and scarcely had he
finished in his _Defence_ an exquisite criticism of English poetry to
that time than the full choir of Elizabethan poets burst into

                 "the songs that fill
  The spacious times of great Elizabeth
          With sounds that echo still."

In 1582 Philip Sidney married the daughter of Walsingham, but in his
retirement, whether steadfastly watching the great struggle upon the
Continent or listening to the alluring music of far-off seas, he knew
that the choice days of his life were passing, and if a career were
not opened for him by the queen, he must make one for himself. William
of Orange had been murdered; Elizabeth promptly succeeded him as the
active head of the Protestant world; Philip of Spain was the great
enemy. Strike him at home, said Sidney; strike him at sea, but strike
him everywhere; and he arranged with Drake a descent upon Spanish
America. He hurried privately to Plymouth to embark, but at the last
moment a peer of the realm arrived from the queen forbidding his
departure. The loyal gentleman bowed and obeyed.

But two months after his fleet sailed, on the 7th of November, 1585
(about the time that William Shakespeare first came to London),
Elizabeth appointed Sidney governor of Flushing, in the Netherlands.
He went thither gladly on the 18th, with three thousand men, to strike
for the cause in which he believed. He had already told the queen that
the spirit of the Netherlands was the spirit of God, and was invincible.
His uncle, the Earl of Leicester, followed him as commander-in-chief.
The earl was handsome at tournaments, but not fit for battle-fields,
and Sidney was annoyed by his uncle's conduct; but he writes to his
father-in-law, Walsingham, in a strain full of the music of a noble
soul, and fitly precluding his end: "I think a wise and constant man
ought never to grieve while he doth play, as a man may say, his own
part truly."

For that he was always ready. In the misty dawn of the 22d of
September, 1586, a force of three thousand Spaniards stole silently
along to the relief of Zutphen, on the river Isel. Sidney, at the head
of five hundred cavalry, rode forward to meet them. In the obscurity
the battle was sharp and confused. Seeing his friend Lord Willoughby
in special danger, Sidney spurred to the rescue. His horse was shot
under him and fell. Springing upon another, he dashed forward again
and succored his friend, but at the instant a shot struck him below
the knee, glancing upward. His furious horse became unmanageable, and
Sir Philip was obliged to leave the field. But as he passed slowly
along to the rear of the soldiers, he felt faint with bleeding, and
called for water. A cup was brought to him, but as he was lifting it
to his month he saw a dying soldier staring at it with burning eyes.
Philip Sidney paused before tasting it, leaned from the saddle, and
handed it to the soldier, saying to him in the same soft, musical
voice with which the boy called to his mother in the sunny garden at
Penshurst, "Friend, thy necessity is yet greater than mine."

He was borne on to Araheim, and lived in suffering for twenty-six
days. He conversed pleasantly and called for music, and said at last
to his brother, whom he had loved as brothers seldom love: "Love my
memory; cherish my friends. Their faith to me may assure you they are
honest. But, above all, govern your will and affections by the will
and word of your Creator, in me beholding the end of this world with
all her vanities." "And so," says old Stowe, with fond particularity,
"he died, the 17th day of October, between two and three of the clock
in the afternoon."

 "The boast of heraldry, the pomp of power,
    And all that beauty, all that wealth e'er gave,
  Await alike the inevitable hour.
    The paths of glory lead but to the grave."

This is the story of Philip Sidney. A letter, a book, a battle. How
little to justify his unique fame! How invisible his performance among
the illustrious events of his prodigious age! Yet is not the instinct
of the human heart true; and in the stately society of his time, if
Bacon were the philosopher, Shakespeare the poet, Burleigh the
counsellor, Raleigh the soldier, Drake the sailor, Hooker the
theologian, Essex the courtier, and Gresham the merchant, was not
Philip Sidney as distinctively the gentleman? Heroes stood beside him
in clusters, poets in constellations; all the illustrious men of the
age achieved more tangible results than he, yet none of them has
carved his name upon history more permanently and with a more diamond
point; for he had that happy harmony of mind and temper, of enthusiasm
and good sense, of accomplishment and capacity, which is described by
that most exquisite and most abused word, gentleman. His guitar hung
by a ribbon at his side, but his sword hung upon leather beneath it.
His knee bent gallantly to the queen, but it knelt reverently also to
his Maker. And it was the crown of the gentleman that he was neither
ashamed of the guitar nor of the sword; neither of the loyalty nor the
prayer. For a gentleman is not an idler, a trifler, a dandy; he is not
a scholar only, a soldier, a mechanic, a merchant; he is the flower of
men, in whom the accomplishment of the scholar, the bravery of the
soldier, the skill of the mechanic, the sagacity of the merchant, all
have their part and appreciation. A sense of duty is his main-spring,
and like a watch crusted with precious stones, his function is not to
look prettily, but to tell the time of day. Philip Sidney was not a
gentleman because his grandfather was the Duke of Northumberland and
his father lord-deputy of Ireland, but because he was himself
generous, simple, truthful, noble, refined. He was born with a gold
spoon in his mouth, but the gold is only the test. In the mouths of
the base it becomes brass and iron. George IV., called with bitter
irony the first gentleman in Europe, was born with the gold spoon, but
his acrid humors turned it to the basest metal, betraying his mean
soul. George Stephenson was born with the pewter spoon in his mouth,
but the true temper of his soul turned it into pure gold. The test of
a gentleman is his use, not his uselessness; whether that use be
direct or indirect, whether it be actual service or only inspiring and
aiding action. "To what purpose should our thoughts be directed to
various kinds of knowledge," wrote Philip Sidney in 1578, "unless room
be afforded for putting it into practice so that public advantage may
be the result?" And Algernon Sidney said, nearly a century later: "I
have ever had it in my mind that when God cast me into such a
condition as that I cannot save my life but by doing an indecent
thing, he shows me the time has come wherein I should resign it." And
when that time came he did resign it; for every gentleman
instinctively serves justice and liberty. He feels himself personally
disgraced by an insult to humanity, for he, too, is only a man; and
however stately his house may be and murmurous with music, however
glowing with pictures and graceful with statues and reverend with
books--however his horses may out-trot other horses, and his yachts
outsail all yachts--the gentleman is king and master of these and not
their servant; he wears them for ornament, like the ring upon his
finger or the flower in his button-hole, and if they go the gentleman
remains. He knows that all their worth came from human genius and
human training; and loving man more than the works of man, he
instinctively shuns whatever in the shape of man is degraded,
outraged, and forsaken. He does not make the poverty of others the
reason for robbing them; he does not make the oppression of others the
reason for oppressing them, for his gentility is his religion; and
therefore with simple truth and tender audacity the old English
dramatist Dekkar calls Him who gave the name to our religion, and who
destroyed the plea that might makes right, "the first true gentleman,
that ever breathed".

But not only is Philip Sidney's story the poem of a gentleman, it is
that of a young man. It was the age of young men. No man was thought
flippant, whatever his years, who could say a good thing well, or do a
brave thing successfully, or give the right advice at the right
moment. The great men of the day were all young. At sixteen Bacon had
already sketched his _Philosophy_. At seventeen Walter Raleigh had
gone to find some good wars. At seventeen Edmund Spenser had first
published. Before he was twenty, Alexander Farnese, Prince of Parma,
and the greatest general of Sidney's time, had revealed his masterly
genius. At twenty-one Don John of Austria had been commander-in-chief
against the Moors. The Prince of Cond and Henry of Navarre were
leaders while they were yet boys. At twenty Francis Drake sailed, a
captain, with John Hawkins; and at twenty-one the Washington of
European history, to whom an American has for the first time paid just
homage with an enthusiasm and eloquence of Sidney describing his
friend--at twenty-one William of Orange commanded an army of Charles V.

When England wanted leaders in those tremendous days that shaped her
destiny, it did just what America did in those recent perilous hours
that determined hers--she sent young men with faith in their hearts
and fire in their veins--not old men with feathers in their hats; and
everywhere it is the young men who have made history. At thirty-two
Alexander wept for another world to conquer. On his thirty-seventh
birthday Raphael lay dead beneath his last picture. At thirty-six
Mozart had sung his swan-song. At twenty-five Hannibal was
commander-in-chief of the Carthaginian armies. At thirty-three Turenne
was marshal of France. At twenty-seven Bonaparte was triumphant in
Italy. At forty-five Wellington had conquered Bonaparte, and at
forty-eight retired from active military service. At forty-three
Washington was chief of the Continental army. On his forty-fifth
birthday Sherman was piercing the heart of the American Rebellion; and
before he was forty-three Grant had "fought it out on this line" to
perfect victory. Young men! Of course they were young men. Youth is
the main-spring of the world. The experience of age is wise in action
only when it is electrified by the enthusiasm of youth. Show me a land
in which the young men are cold and sceptical and prematurely wise;
which in polite indifference is called political wisdom, contempt for
ideas common-sense, and honesty in politics Sunday-school
statesmanship--show me a land in which the young men are more anxious
about doing well than about doing right--and I will show you a country
in which public corruption and ruin overtakes private infidelity and
cowardice, and in which, if there were originally a hope for mankind,
a faith in principle, and a conquering enthusiasm, that faith, hope,
and enthusiasm are expiring like the deserted camp-fires of a retiring
army. "Woe to a man when his heart grows old! Woe to a nation when its
young men shuffle in the gouty shoes and limp on the untimely crutches
of age, instead of leaping along the course of life with the jubilant
spring of their years and the sturdy play of their own muscles!" Sir
Philip Sidney's was the age of young men: and wherever there are
self-reliance, universal human sympathy, and confidence in God, there
is the age of youth and national triumph; just as whenever Joan of Arc
leads the army, or Molly Stark dares to be a widow, or Rosa Bonheur
paints, or Hattie Hosmer carves, or Jenny Lind sings, or Mrs. Patten
steers the wrecked ship to port, or Florence Nightingale walks the
midnight hospital--these are the age and the sphere of woman. Queen
Elizabeth's was the age of young men; but so it is always when there
are young men who can make an age.

And ours is such an age. We live in a country which has been saved by
its young men. Before us opens a future which is to be secured by the
young men. I have not held up Sir Philip Sidney as a reproach, but
only for his brothers to admire--only that we may scatter the glamour
of the past and of history, and understand that we do not live in the
lees of time and the world's decrepitude. There is no country so fair
that ours is not fairer; there is no age so heroic that ours is not as
noble; there is no youth in history so romantic and beloved that in a
thousand American homes you may not find his peer to-day. It is the
Sidneys we have known who interpret this Philip of three hundred years
ago. Dear, noble gentleman! he does not move alone in our imaginations,
for our own memories supply his splendid society. We too have seen, how
often and how often, the bitter fight of the misty morning on the Isel
--the ringing charge, the fatal fall. A thousand times we saw the same
true Sidney heart that, dying, gave the cup of cold water to a
fellow-soldier. And we, for whom the Sidneys died, let us thank God for
showing us in our own experience, as in history, that the noblest traits
of human character are still spanned by the rainbow of perfect beauty;
and that human love and faith and fidelity, like day and night, like
seed-time and harvest, shall never, never fail.




LONGFELLOW


In the school readers of half a century ago there were two poems which
every boy and girl read and declaimed and remembered. How much of that
old literature has disappeared! How much that stirred the hearts and
touched the fancies of those boys and girls, their children have never
heard of! Willis's "Saturday Afternoon" and "Burial of Arnold" have
floated away, almost out of sight, with Pierpont's "Bunker Hill" and
Sprague's Fourth-of-July oration. The relentless winds of oblivion
incessantly blow. Scraps of verse and rhetoric once so familiar are
caught up, wafted noiselessly away, and lodged in neglected books and
in the dark corners of fading memories, gradually vanish from familiar
knowledge. But the two little poems of which we speak have survived.
One of them was Bryant's "March", and the other was Longfellow's
"April", and the names of the two poets singing of spring were thus
associated in the spring-time of our poetry, as the fathers of which
they will be always honored.

Both poems originally appeared in the _United States Literary
Gazette_, and were included in the modest volume of selections from
that journal which was published in Boston in 1826. The chief names in
this little book are those of Bryant, Longfellow, Percival, Mellen,
Dawes, and Jones. Percival has already become a name only; Dawes, and
Greenville Mellen, who, like Longfellow, was a son of Maine, are
hardly known to this generation, and Jones does not even appear in
Duyckinck's Cyclopaedia. But in turning over the pages it is evident
that Time has dealt justly with the youthful bards, and that the
laurel rests upon the heads of the singers whose earliest strains
fitly preluded the music of their prime. Longfellow was nineteen years
old when the book was published. He had graduated at Bowdoin College
the year before, and the verses had been written and printed in the
_Gazette_ while he was still a student.

The glimpses of the boy that we catch through the recollections of his
old professor, Packard, and of his college mates, are of the same
character as at every period of his life. They reveal a modest,
refined, manly youth, devoted to study, of great personal charm and
gentle manners. It is the boy that the older man suggested. To look
back upon him is to trace the broad and clear and beautiful river far
up the green meadows to the limpid rill.

His poetic taste and faculty were already apparent, and it is related
that a version of an ode of Horace which he wrote in his Sophomore
year so impressed one of the members of the examining board that when
afterwards a chair of modern languages was established in the college,
he proposed as its incumbent the young Sophomore whose fluent verse he
remembered. The impression made by the young Longfellow is doubtlessly
accurately described by one of his famous classmates, Hawthorne, for
the class of '25 is a proud tradition of Bowdoin. In "P.'s
Correspondence", one of the _Mosses from an Old Manse_, a quaint fancy
of a letter from "my unfortunate friend P.", whose wits were a little
disordered, there are grotesque hints of the fate of famous persons.
P. talks with Burns at eighty-seven; Byron, grown old and fat, wears a
wig and spectacles; Shelley is reconciled to the Church of England;
Coleridge finishes "Christabel"; Keats writes a religious epic on the
millennium; and George Canning is a peer. On our side of the sea, Dr.
Channing had just published a volume of verses; Whittier had been
lynched ten years before in South Carolina; and, continues P., "I
remember, too, a lad just from college, Longfellow by name, who
scattered some delicate verses to the winds, and went to Germany, and
perished, I think, of intense application, at the University of
Gttingen." Longfellow, in turn, recalled his classmate Hawthorne--a
shy, dark-haired youth flitting across the college grounds in a coat
with bright buttons.

Among these delicate verses was the poem to "An April Day". As the
work of a very young man it is singularly restrained and finished. It
has the characteristic elegance and flowing melody of his later verse,
and its half-pensive tone is not excessive nor immature. It is not,
however, for this that it is most interesting, but because, with
Bryant's "March", it is the fresh and simple note of a truly American
strain. Perhaps the curious reader, enlightened by the observation of
subsequent years, may find in the "March" a more vigorous love of
nature, and in the "April" a tenderer tone of tranquil sentiment. But
neither of the poems is the echo of a foreign music, nor an exercise
of remembered reading. They both deal with the sights and sounds and
suggestions of the American, landscape in the early spring. In
Longfellow's "April" there are none of the bishops' caps and foreign
ornament of illustration to which Margaret Fuller afterwards objected
in his verse. But these early associated poems, both of the younger
and of the older singer, show an original movement of American
literary genius, and, like the months which they celebrate, they
foretold a summer.

That summer bad been long awaited. In 1809, Buckminster said in his
Phi Beta Kappa oration at Harvard College: "Oar poets and historians,
our critics and orators, the men of whom posterity are to stand in
awe, and by whom they are to be instructed, are yet to appear among
us." Happily, however, the orator thought that he beheld the promise
of their coming, although he does not say where. But even as he spoke
they were at hand. Irving's _Knickerbocker_ was published in 1809, and
Bryant's "Thanatopsis" was written in 1812. The _North American
Review_, an enterprise of literary men in Boston and Cambridge, was
begun in 1815, and Bryant and Longfellow were both contributors. But
it was in the year 1821, the year in which Longfellow entered college,
that the beginning of a distinctive American literature became most
evident. There were signs of an independent intellectual movement both
in the choice of subjects and in the character of treatment. This was
the year of the publication of Bryant's first slim volume, and of
Cooper's _Spy_, and of Dana's _Idle Man_. Irving's _Sketch Book_ was
already finished, Miss Sedgwick's _Hope Leslie_ and Percival's first
volume had been issued, and Halleck's and Drake's "Croakers" were
already popular. In these works, as in all others of that time, there
was indeed no evidence of great creative genius.

The poet and historian whom Buckminster foresaw, and who were to
strike posterity with awe, had not yet appeared, but in the same year
the voice of the orator whom he anticipated was heard upon Plymouth
Rock in cadences massive and sonorous as the voice of the sea. In the
year 1821 there was the plain evidence of an awakening original
literary activity.

Longfellow was the youngest of the group in which he first appeared.
His work was graceful, tender, pensive, gentle, melodious, the strain
of a troubadour. When he went to Europe in 1826 to fit himself more
fully for his professorship, he had but "scattered some delicate
verses to the winds". When he returned, and published in 1833 his
translations of "Coplas de Manrique" and other Spanish poems, he had
apparently done no more. There was plainly shown an exquisite literary
artist, a very Benvenuto of grace and skill. But he would hardly have
been selected as the poet who was to take the strongest hold of the
hearts of his countrymen, the singer whose sweet and hallowing spell
was to be so deep and universal that at last it would be said in
another country that to it also his death was a national loss.

The qualities of these early verses, however, were never lost. The
genius of the poet steadily and beautifully developed, flowering
according to its nature. The most urbane and sympathetic of men, never
aggressive, nor vehement, nor self-asserting, he was yet thoroughly
independent, and the individuality of his genius held its tranquil way
as surely as the river Charles, whose placid beauty he so often sang,
wound through the meadows calm and free. When Longfellow came to
Cambridge, the impulse of Transcendentalism in New England was deeply
affecting scholarship and literature. It was represented by the most
original of American thinkers and the typical American scholar,
Emerson, and its elevating, purifying, and emancipating influences are
memorable in our moral and intellectual history. Longfellow lived in
the very heart of the movement. Its leaders were his cherished
friends. He too was a scholar and a devoted student of German
literature, who had drunk deeply also of the romance of German life.
Indeed, his first important works stimulated the taste for German
studies and the enjoyment of its literature more than any other
impulse in this country. But he remained without the charmed
Transcendental circle, serene and friendly and attentive. There are
those whose career was wholly moulded by the intellectual revival of
that time. But Longfellow was untouched by it, except as his
sympathies were attracted by the vigor and purity of its influence.
His tastes, his interests, his activities, his career, would have been
the same had that great light never shone. If he had been the ductile,
echoing, imitative nature that the more ardent disciples of the faith
supposed him to be, he would have been absorbed and swept away by the
flood. But he was as untouched by it as Charles Lamb by the wars of
Napoleon.

It was in the first flush of the Transcendental epoch that Longfellow's
first important works appeared. In 1839, his proseromance of _Hyperion_
was published, following the sketches of travelcalled _Outre-Mer_. He
was living in Cambridge, in the famous house in which he died, and in
which _Hyperion_ and all of his familiar books were written. Under the
form of a slight love tale, _Hyperion_ is the diary of a poet's
wandering in a storied and picturesque land, the hearty, home-like
genius of whose life and literature is peculiarly akin to his own. The
book bubbles and sings with snatches of the songs of the country; it
reproduces the tone and feeling of the landscape, the grandeur of
Switzerland, the rich romance of the Rhine; it decorates itself with
a quaint scholarship, and is so steeped in the spirit of the country,
so glowing with the palpitating tenderness of passion, that it is still
eagerly bought at the chief points which it commemorates, and is
cherished by young hearts as no prose romance was ever cherished before.

_Hyperion_, indeed, is a poet's and lover's romance. It is full of
deep feeling, of that intense and delighted appreciation of nature in
her grander forms, and of scenes consecrated by poetic tradition,
which belongs to a singularly fine, sensitive, and receptive nature,
when exalted by pure and lofty affection; and it has the fulness and
swing of youth, saddened by experience indeed, yet rising with renewed
hope, like a field of springing grain in May bowed by the west wind,
and touched with the shadow of a cloud, but presently lifting itself
again to heaven. A clear sweet humor and blitheness of heart blend in
this romance. What is called its artificial tone is not insincerity;
it is the play of an artist conscious of his skill and revelling in
it, even while his hand and his heart are deeply in earnest. _Werther_
is a romance, Disraeli's _Wondrous Tale of Alroy_ is a romance, but
they belong to the realm of Beverley and Julia in Sheridan's _Rivals_.
In _Hyperion_, with all its elaborate picturesqueness, its spicy
literary atmosphere, and imaginative outline, there is a breezy
freshness and simplicity and healthiness of feeling which leaves it
still unique.

In the same year with _Hyperion_ came the _Voices of the Night_, a
volume of poems which contained the "Coplas de Manrique" and the
translations, with a selection from the verses of the _Literary
Gazette_, which the author playfully reclaims in a note from their
vagabond and precarious existence in the corners of newspapers
--gathering his children from wanderings in lanes and alleys, and
introducing them decorously to the world. A few later poems were added,
and these, with the _Hyperion_, showed a new and distinctive
literary talent. In both of these volumes there is the purity of spirit,
the elegance of form, the romantic tone, the airy grace, which were
already associated with Longfellow's name. But there are other
qualities. The boy of nineteen, the poet of Bowdoin, has become a
scholar and a traveller. The teeming hours, the ample opportunities
of youth, have not been neglected or squandered, but, like a
golden-banded bee, humming as he sails, the young poet has drained all
the flowers of literature of their nectar, and has built for himself a
hive of sweetness. More than this, he had proved in his own experience
the truth of Irving's tender remark, that an early sorrow is often the
truest benediction for the poet.

Through all the romantic grace and elegance of the _Voices of the
Night_ and _Hyperion_, however, there is a moral earnestness which is
even more remarkable in the poems than in the romance. No volume of
poems ever published in the country was so popular. Severe critics
indeed, while acknowledging its melody and charm, thought it too
morally didactic, the work of a student too fondly enamoured of
foreign literatures. But while they conceded taste and facility, two
of the poems at least--the "Psalm of Life" and the "Footsteps of
Angels"--penetrated the common heart at once, and have held it ever
since. A young Scotchman saw them reprinted in some paper or magazine,
and, meeting a literary lady in London, repeated them to her, and then
to a literary assembly at her house; and the presence of a new poet
was at once acknowledged. If the "Midnight Mass for the Dying Year" in
its form and phrase and conception recalled a land of cathedrals and a
historic religious ritual, and had but a vague and remote charm for
the woodman in the pine forests of Maine and the farmer on the
Illinois prairie, yet the "Psalm of Life" was the very heart-beat of
the American conscience, and the "Footsteps of Angels" was a hymn of
the fond yearning of every loving heart.

During the period of more than forty years from the publication of the
_Voices of the Night_ to his death, the fame of Longfellow constantly
increased. It was not because his genius, like that of another
scholarly poet, Gray, seldom blossomed in song, so that his renown
rested upon a few gem-like verses. He was not intimidated by his own
fame. During those forty years he wrote and published constantly.
Other great fames arose around him. New poets began to sing. Popular
historians took their places. But still with Bryant the name of
Longfellow was always associated at the head of American singers, and
far beyond that of any other American author was his name known
through all the reading world. The volume of _Voices of the Night_ was
followed by similar collections, then by _The Spanish Student_,
_Evangeline_, _The Golden Legend_, _Hiawatha_, _The Courtship of Miles
Standish_, _The Tales of a Wayside Inn_, _The New England Tragedies_,
_The Masque of Pandora_, _The Hanging of the Crane_, the _Morituri
Salutarnus_, the _Kramos_. But all of these, like stately birds

 "Sailing with supreme dominion
  Through the upper realms of air,"

were attended by shorter poems, sonnets, "birds of passage", as the
poet called his swallow flights of song. In all these larger poems,
while the characteristics of the earlier volumes were more amply
developed and illustrated, and the subtle beauty of the skill became
even more exquisite, the essential qualities of the work remain
unchanged, and the charm of a poet and his significance in the
literature and development of his country were never more readily
defined.

Child of New England, and trained by her best influences; of a
temperament singularly sweet and serene, and with the sturdy rectitude
of his race; refined and softened by wide contact with other lands and
many men; born in prosperity, accomplished in all literatures, and
himself a literary artist of consummate elegance, he was the fine
flower of the Puritan stock under its changed modern conditions. Out
of strength had come forth sweetness. The grim iconoclast, "humming a
surly hymn", had issued in the Christian gentleman. Captain Miles
Standish had risen into Sir Philip Sidney. The austere morality that
relentlessly ruled the elder New England reappeared in the genius of
this singer in the most gracious and captivating form. The grave
nature of Bryant in his early secluded life among the solitary hills
of Western Massachusetts had been tinged by them with their own
sobriety. There was something of the sombre forest, of the gray rocky
face of stern New England in his granitic verse. But what delicate
wild-flowers nodded in the clefts! What scent of the pine-tree, what
music of gurgling water, filled the cool air! What bird high poised
upon its solitary way through heaven-taught faith to him who pursued
his way alone!

But while the same moral tone in the poetry both of Bryant and of
Longfellow shows them to be children of the same soil and tradition,
and shows also that they saw plainly, what poets of the greatest
genius have often not seen at all, that in the morality of human life
lies its true beauty, the different aspect of Puritan development
which they displayed was due to difference of temperament and
circumstance. The foundations of our distinctive literature were
largely laid in New England, and they rest upon morality. Literary New
England had never a trace of literary Bohemia. The most illustrious
group, and the earliest, of American authors and scholars and literary
men, the Boston and Cambridge group of the last generation--Channing,
the two Danas, Sparks, Everett, Bancroft, Ticknor, Prescott, Norton,
Ripley, Palfrey, Emerson, Parker, Hawthorne, Longfellow, Holmes,
Whittier, Agassiz, Lowell, Motley--have been all sober and
industrious citizens of whom Judge Sewall would have approved. Their
lives as well as their works have ennobled literature. They have
illustrated the moral sanity of genius.

Longfellow shares this trait with them all. It is the moral purity of
his verse which at once charms the heart, and in his first most famous
poem, the "Psalm of Life", it is the direct inculcation of a moral
purpose. Those who insist that literary art, like all other art,
should not concern itself positively with morality, must reflect that
the heart of this age has been touched as truly by Longfellow, however
differently, as that of any time by its master-poet. This, indeed, is
his peculiar distinction. Among the great poetic names of the century
in English literature, Burns, in a general way, is the poet of love;
Wordsworth, of lofty contemplation of nature; Byron, of passion;
Shelley, of aspiration; Keats, of romance; Scott, of heroic legend;
and not less, and quite as distinctively, Longfellow, of the domestic
affections. He is the poet of the household, of the fireside, of the
universal home feeling. The infinite tenderness and patience, the
pathos, and the beauty of daily life, of familiar emotion, and the
common scene, these are the significance of that verse whose beautiful
and simple melody, softly murmuring for more than forty years, made
the singer the most widely beloved of living men.

Longfellow's genius was not a great creative force. It burst into no
tempests of mighty passion. It did not wrestle with the haughtily
veiled problems of fate and free-will absolute. It had no dramatic
movement and variety, no eccentricity and grotesqueness and
unexpectedness. It was not Lear, nor Faust, nor Manfred, nor Romeo. A
carnation is not a passion-flower. Indeed, no poet of so universal and
sincere a popularity ever sang so little of love as a passion. None of
his smaller poems are love poems; and _Evangeline_ is a tale, not of
fiery romance, but of affection "that hopes and endures and is patient",
of the unwasting "beauty and strength of woman's devotion", of the
constantly tried and tested virtue that makes up the happiness of daily
life. No one has described so well as Longfellow himself the character
and influence of his own poetry:

 "Come read to me some poem,
  Some simple and heart-felt lay,
  That shall soothe this restless feeling,
  And banish the thoughts of day.

 "Hot from the grand old masters,
  Not from the bards sublime,
  Whose distant footsteps echo
  Through the corridors of Time.

       *       *       *       *       *

 "Such songs have power to quiet
  The restless pulse of care,
  And come like the benediction
  That follows after prayer."

This was the office of Longfellow in literature, and how perfectly it
was fulfilled! It was not a wilful purpose, but he carefully guarded
the fountain of his song from contamination or diversion, and this was
its natural overflow. During the long period of his literary activity
there were many "schools" and styles and fashions of poetry. The
influence first of Byron, then of Keats, is manifest in the poetry of
the last generation, and in later days a voluptuous vagueness and
barbaric splendor, as of the lower empire in literature, have corroded
the vigor of much modern verse. But no perfumed blandishment of
doubtful goddesses won Longfellow from his sweet and domestic Muse.
The clear thought, the true feeling, the pure aspiration, is expressed
with limpid simplicity:

  "Strong without rage; without o'erflowing, full."

The most delightful picture in Goldsmith's life is that of the youth
wandering through rural Europe, stopping at the little villages in the
peaceful summer sunset, and sweetly playing melodies upon his flute
for the lads and lasses to dance upon the green. Who that reads "The
Traveller" and "The Deserted Village" does not hear in their pensive
music the far-away fluting of that kind-hearted wanderer, and see the
lovely idyl of that simple life? So sings this poet to the young men
and maidens in the soft summer air. They follow his measures with
fascinated hearts, for they hear in them their own hearts singing;
they catch the music of their dearest hope, of their best endeavor;
they hear the voices of the peaceful joy that hallows faithful
affection, of the benediction that belongs to self-sacrifice and
devotion. And now that the singer is gone, and his voice is silent,
those hushed hearts recall the words of Father Felicien, Evangeline's
pastor:

  "Forty years of my life have I labored among you, and
  taught you
  Not in word alone, but in deed, to love one another."

It is this fidelity of his genius to itself, the universal feeling to
which he gives expression, and the perfection of his literary
workmanship, which is sure to give Longfellow a permanent place in
literature. His poems are apples of gold in pictures of silver. There
is nothing in them excessive, nothing overwrought, nothing strained
into turgidity, obscurity, and nonsense. There is sometimes, indeed, a
fine stateliness, as in the "Arsenal at Springfield", and even a
resounding splendor of diction, as in "Sandalphon". But when the
melody is most delicate it is simple. The poet throws nothing into the
mist to make it large. How purely melodious his verse can be without
losing the thought or its most transparent expression is seen in "The
Evening Star" and "Snow-Flakes".

The literary decoration of his style, the aroma and color and richness,
so to speak, which it derives from his ample accomplishment in
literature, are incomparable. His verse is embroidered with allusions
and names and illustrations wrought with a taste so true and a skill
so rare that the robe, though it be cloth of gold, is as finely flexible
as linen, and still beautifully reveals, not conceals, the living form.

This scholarly allusion and literary tone were at one time criticised
as showing that Longfellow's genius was really an exotic grown under
glass, or a smooth-throated mocking-bird warbling a foreign melody. A
recent admirable paper in the _Evening Post_ intimates that the kindly
poet took the suggestion in good part, and modified his strain. But
there was never any interruption or change in the continuity of his
work. _Evangeline_ and _Hiawatha_ and _The Courtship of Miles
Standish_ blossom as naturally out of his evident and characteristic
taste and tendency as _The Golden Legend_ or the _Masque of Pandora_.
In the _Tales of a Wayside Inn_ the "Ride of Paul Revere" is as
natural a play of his power as "King Robert of Sicily". The various
aspect and character of nature upon the American continent is nowhere
so fully, beautifully, and accurately portrayed as in _Evangeline_.
The scenery of the poem is the vast American landscape, boundless
prairie and wooded hill, brimming river and green valley, sparkling
savanna and broad bayou, city and village, camp and wigwam, peopled
with the children of many races, and all the blended panorama seen in
the magic light of imagination. So, too, the poetic character of the
Indian legend is preserved with conscientious care and fit monotony of
rippling music in _Hiawatha_. But this is an accident and an incident.
It is not the theme which determines the poet. All Scotland, indeed,
sings and glows in the verse of Burns, but very little of England is
seen or heard in that of Byron.

In no other conspicuous figure in literary history are the man and the
poet more indissolubly blended than in Longfellow. The poet was the
man, and the man the poet. What he was to the stranger reading in
distant lands, by

    "The long wash of Australasian seas,"

that he was to the most intimate of his friends. His life and
character were perfectly reflected in his books. There is no purity or
grace or feeling or spotless charm in his verse which did not belong
to the man. There was never an explanation to be offered for him; no
allowance was necessary for the eccentricity or grotesqueness or
wilfulness or humor of genius. Simple, modest, frank, manly, he was
the good citizen, the self-respecting gentleman, the symmetrical man.

He lived in an interesting historic house in a venerable university
town, itself the suburb of a great city; the highway running by his
gate and dividing the smooth grass and modest green terraces about the
house from the fields and meadows that sloped gently to the placid
Charles, and the low range of distant hills that made the horizon.
Through the little gate passed an endless procession of pilgrims of
every degree and from every country to pay homage to their American
friend. Every morning came the letters of those who could not come
in person, and with infinite urbanity and sympathy and patience the
master of the house received them all, and his gracious hospitality
but deepened the admiration and affection of the guests. His nearer
friends sometimes remonstrated at his sweet courtesy to such annoying
"devastators of the day". But to an urgent complaint of his endless
favor to a flagrant offender, Longfellow only answered, good-humoredly,
"If I did not speak kindly to him, there is not a man in the world who
would." On the day that he was taken ill, six days only before his death,
three schoolboys came out from Boston on their Saturday holiday to ask
his autograph. The benign lover of children welcomed them heartily,
showed them a hundred interesting objects in his house, then wrote his
name for them, and for the last time.

Few men had known deeper sorrow. But no man ever mounted upon his
sorrow more surely to higher things. Blessed and beloved, the singer
is gone, but his song remains, and its pure and imperishable melody is
the song of the lark in the morning of our literature:

  "Type of the wise who soar but never roam,
   True to the kindred points of heaven and home."




OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES


In 1817 Bryant's "Thanatopsis" was published in the _North American
Review_. Richard Henry Dana, the elder, who was then one of the
editors, said that it could not be an American poem, for there was no
American who could have written it. But it does not seem to have
produced a remarkable impression upon the public mind. The planet rose
silently and unobserved. Ten years afterwards, in 1827, Dana's own
"Buccaneer" was published, and Christopher North, in _Blackwood_,
saluted it as "by far the most original and powerful of American
poetical compositions". But it produced in this country no general
effect which is remembered. Nine years later, in 1836, Holmes's
"Metrical Essay" was delivered before the Phi Beta Kappa Society at
Harvard College, and was as distinct an event in literary circles as
Edward Everett's oration before the same society in 1824, or Ralph
Waldo Emerson's in 1837, or Horace Bushnell's in 1848, or Wendell
Phillips's in 1881. Holmes was then twenty-seven years old, and had
just returned from his professional studies in Europe, where, as in
his college days at Cambridge, where he was born, he had toyed with
many Muses, yet still, with native Yankee prudence, held fast the hand
of Aesculapius. His poem, like the address of Emerson in the next
year, showed how completely the modern spirit of refined and exquisite
literary cultivation and of free and undaunted thought had superseded
the uncouth literary form and stern and rigid Calvinism of the Mathers
and early Boston.

The melody and grace of Goldsmith's line, but with a fresh local
spirit, have not been more perfectly reproduced, nor with a more
distinct revelation of a new spirit, than in this poem. It is
retrospective and contemplative, but it is also full of the buoyancy
of youth, of the consciousness of poetic skill, and of blithe
anticipation. Its tender reminiscence and occasional fond elegiac
strain are but clouds of the morning. Its literary form is exquisite,
and its general impression is that of bright, elastic, confident
power. It was by no means, however, a first work, nor was the poet
unknown in his own home. But the "Metrical Essay" introduced him to a
larger public, while the fugitive pieces already known were the
assurance that the more important poem was not a happy chance, but the
development of a quality already proved. Seven years before, in 1829,
the year he graduated at Harvard, Holmes began to contribute to _The
Collegian_, a college magazine. Two years later, in 1831, appeared the
_New England Magazine_, in which the young writer, as he might himself
say, took the road with his double team of verse and prose, holding
the ribbons with unsurpassed lightness and grace and skill, now for
two generations guiding those fleet and well-groomed coursers, which
still show their heels to panting rivals, the prancing team behind
which we have all driven and are still driving with constant and
undiminished delight.

Mr. F. B. Sanborn, whose tribute to Holmes on his eightieth birthday
shows how thorough was his research for that labor of love, tells us
that his first contribution to the _New England Magazine_ was
published in the third or September number of the first year, 1831. It
was a copy of verses of an unpromising title--"To an Insect". But that
particular insect, seemingly the creature of a day, proved to be
immortal, for it was the katydid, whose voice is perennial:

  "Thou sayest an undisputed thing
   In such a solemn way."

In the contributions of the young graduate the high spirits of a
frolicsome fancy effervesce and sparkle. But their quality of a new
literary tone and spirit is very evident. The ease and fun of these
bright prolusions, without impudence or coarseness, the poetic touch
and refinement, were as unmistakable as the brisk pungency of the
gibe. The stately and scholarly Boston of Channing, Dana, Everett, and
Ticknor might indeed have looked askance at the literary claims of
such lines as these "Thoughts in Dejection" of a poet wondering if the
path to Parnassus lay over Charlestown or Chelsea bridge:

 "What is a poet's fame?
    Sad hints about his reason,
  And sadder praise from gazetteers,
    To be returned in season.

 "For him the future holds
    No civic wreath above him;
  Nor slated roof nor varnished chair,
    Nor wife nor child to love him.

 "Maid of the village inn,
    Who workest woe on satin,
  The grass in black, the graves in green,
    The epitaph in Latin,

 "Trust not to them who say
    In stanzas they adore thee;
  Oh, rather sleep in church-yard clay,
    With maudlin cherubs o'er thee!"

The lines to the katydid, with "L'Inconnue"--

 "Is thy name Mary, maiden fair?"--

published in the magazine at about the same