el toward his mouth.

"Kennedy!" shouted Joe, throwing himself upon his friend.

"Let go! hands off!" moaned the Scot, in a hoarse,
grating voice--and then the two struggled desperately for
the rifle.

"Let go, or I'll kill you!" repeated Kennedy. But
Joe clung to him only the more fiercely, and they had
been contending thus without the doctor seeing them for
many seconds, when, suddenly the rifle went off. At the
sound of its discharge, the doctor rose up erect, like a
spectre, and glared around him.

But all at once his glance grew more animated; he extended
his hand toward the horizon, and in a voice no
longer human shrieked:

"There! there--off there!"

There was such fearful force in the cry that Kennedy
and Joe released each other, and both looked where the
doctor pointed.

The plain was agitated like the sea shaken by the fury
of a tempest; billows of sand went tossing over each other
amid blinding clouds of dust; an immense pillar was seen
whirling toward them through the air from the southeast,
with terrific velocity; the sun was disappearing behind an
opaque veil of cloud whose enormous barrier extended
clear to the horizon, while the grains of fine sand went
gliding together with all the supple ease of liquid particles,
and the rising dust-tide gained more and more with
every second.

Ferguson's eyes gleamed with a ray of energetic hope.

"The simoom!" he exclaimed.

"The simoom!" repeated Joe, without exactly knowing what it meant.

"So much the better!" said Kennedy, with the bitterness of
despair. "So much the better--we shall die!"

"So much the better!" echoed the doctor, "for we
shall live!" and, so saying, he began rapidly to throw out
the sand that encumbered the car.

At length his companions understood him, and took
their places at his side.

"And now, Joe," said the doctor, "throw out some
fifty pounds of your ore, there!"

Joe no longer hesitated, although he still felt a fleeting
pang of regret. The balloon at once began to ascend.

"It was high time!" said the doctor.

The simoom, in fact, came rushing on like a thunderbolt,
and a moment later the balloon would have been
crushed, torn to atoms, annihilated. The awful whirlwind
was almost upon it, and it was already pelted with showers
of sand driven like hail by the storm.

"Out with more ballast!" shouted the doctor.

"There!" responded Joe, tossing over a huge fragment
of quartz.

With this, the Victoria rose swiftly above the range
of the whirling column, but, caught in the vast displacement
of the atmosphere thereby occasioned, it was borne
along with incalculable rapidity away above this foaming
sea.

The three travellers did not speak. They gazed, and
hoped, and even felt refreshed by the breath of the tempest.

About three o'clock, the whirlwind ceased; the sand,
falling again upon the desert, formed numberless little
hillocks, and the sky resumed its former tranquillity.

The balloon, which had again lost its momentum, was
floating in sight of an oasis, a sort of islet studded with
green trees, thrown up upon the surface of this sandy
ocean.

"Water! we'll find water there!" said the doctor.

And, instantly, opening the upper valve, he let some
hydrogen escape, and slowly descended, taking the ground
at about two hundred feet from the edge of the oasis.

In four hours the travellers had swept over a distance
of two hundred and forty miles!

The car was at once ballasted, and Kennedy, closely
followed by Joe, leaped out.

"Take your guns with you!" said the doctor; "take
your guns, and be careful!"

Dick grasped his rifle, and Joe took one of the fowling-pieces.
They then rapidly made for the trees, and disappeared under
the fresh verdure, which announced the presence of abundant
springs. As they hurried on, they had not taken notice of
certain large footprints and fresh tracks of some living
creature marked here and there in the damp soil.

Suddenly, a dull roar was heard not twenty paces from them.

"The roar of a lion!" said Joe.

"Good for that!" said the excited hunter; "we'll
fight him. A man feels strong when only a fight's in
question."

"But be careful, Mr. Kennedy; be careful! The lives
of all depend upon the life of one."

But Kennedy no longer heard him; he was pushing
on, his eye blazing; his rifle cocked; fearful to behold in
his daring rashness. There, under a palm-tree, stood an
enormous black-maned lion, crouching for a spring on his
antagonist. Scarcely had he caught a glimpse of the
hunter, when he bounded through the air; but he had not
touched the ground ere a bullet pierced his heart, and he
fell to the earth dead.

"Hurrah! hurrah!" shouted Joe, with wild exultation.

Kennedy rushed toward the well, slid down the dampened
steps, and flung himself at full length by the side of
a fresh spring, in which he plunged his parched lips. Joe
followed suit, and for some minutes nothing was heard but
the sound they made with their mouths, drinking more
like maddened beasts than men.

"Take care, Mr. Kennedy," said Joe at last; "let us
not overdo the thing!" and he panted for breath.

But Kennedy, without a word, drank on. He even
plunged his hands, and then his head, into the delicious
tide--he fairly revelled in its coolness.

"But the doctor?" said Joe; "our friend, Dr. Ferguson?"

That one word recalled Kennedy to himself, and, hastily
filling a flask that he had brought with him, he started on
a run up the steps of the well.

But what was his amazement when he saw an opaque
body of enormous dimensions blocking up the passage!
Joe, who was close upon Kennedy's heels, recoiled with
him.

"We are blocked in--entrapped!"

"Impossible! What does that mean?--"

Dick had no time to finish; a terrific roar made him
only too quickly aware what foe confronted him.

"Another lion!" exclaimed Joe.

"A lioness, rather," said Kennedy. "Ah! ferocious
brute!" he added, "I'll settle you in a moment more!"
and swiftly reloaded his rifle.

In another instant he fired, but the animal had disappeared.

"Onward!" shouted Kennedy.

"No!" interposed the other, "that shot did not kill
her; her body would have rolled down the steps; she's
up there, ready to spring upon the first of us who appears,
and he would be a lost man!"

"But what are we to do? We must get out of this,
and the doctor is expecting us."

"Let us decoy the animal. Take my piece, and give
me your rifle."

"What is your plan?"

"You'll see."

And Joe, taking off his linen jacket, hung it on the end
of the rifle, and thrust it above the top of the steps. The
lioness flung herself furiously upon it. Kennedy was on
the alert for her, and his bullet broke her shoulder. The
lioness, with a frightful howl of agony, rolled down the
steps, overturning Joe in her fall. The poor fellow imagined
that he could already feel the enormous paws of the
savage beast in his flesh, when a second detonation
resounded in the narrow passage, and Dr. Ferguson appeared
at the opening above with his gun in hand, and still smoking
from the discharge.

Joe leaped to his feet, clambered over the body of the
dead lioness, and handed up the flask full of sparkling
water to his master.

To carry it to his lips, and to half empty it at a draught,
was the work of an instant, and the three travellers offered
up thanks from the depths of their hearts to that Providence
who had so miraculously saved them.



CHAPTER TWENTY-EIGHTH.

An Evening of Delight.--Joe's Culinary Performance.--A Dissertation on Raw
Meat.--The Narrative of James Bruce.--Camping out.--Joe's Dreams.--The
Barometer begins to fall.--The Barometer rises again.--Preparations for
Departure.--The Tempest.

The evening was lovely, and our three friends enjoyed
it in the cool shade of the mimosas, after a substantial
repast, at which the tea and the punch were dealt out with
no niggardly hand.

Kennedy had traversed the little domain in all directions.
He had ransacked every thicket and satisfied himself
that the balloon party were the only living creatures
in this terrestrial paradise; so they stretched themselves
upon their blankets and passed a peaceful night that
brought them forgetfulness of their past sufferings.

On the morrow, May 7th, the sun shone with all his
splendor, but his rays could not penetrate the dense screen
of the palm-tree foliage, and as there was no lack of provisions,
the doctor resolved to remain where he was while
waiting for a favorable wind.

Joe had conveyed his portable kitchen to the oasis, and proceeded
to indulge in any number of culinary combinations, using water
all the time with the most profuse extravagance.

"What a strange succession of annoyances and enjoyments!"
moralized Kennedy. "Such abundance as this after such
privations; such luxury after such want! Ah! I nearly went mad!"

"My dear Dick," replied the doctor, "had it not been
for Joe, you would not be sitting here, to-day, discoursing
on the instability of human affairs."

"Whole-hearted friend!" said Kennedy, extending
his hand to Joe.

"There's no occasion for all that," responded the latter;
"but you can take your revenge some time, Mr. Kennedy,
always hoping though that you may never have occasion
to do the same for me!"

"It's a poor constitution this of ours to succumb to so
little," philosophized Dr. Ferguson.

"So little water, you mean, doctor," interposed Joe;
"that element must be very necessary to life."

"Undoubtedly, and persons deprived of food hold out
longer than those deprived of water."

"I believe it. Besides, when needs must, one can eat
any thing he comes across, even his fellow-creatures,
although that must be a kind of food that's pretty hard
to digest."

"The savages don't boggle much about it!" said
Kennedy.

"Yes; but then they are savages, and accustomed to
devouring raw meat; it's something that I'd find very
disgusting, for my part."

"It is disgusting enough," said the doctor, "that's a
fact; and so much so, indeed, that nobody believed the
narratives of the earliest travellers in Africa who brought
back word that many tribes on that continent subsisted
upon raw meat, and people generally refused to credit the
statement. It was under such circumstances that a very
singular adventure befell James Bruce."

"Tell it to us, doctor; we've time enough to hear it,"
said Joe, stretching himself voluptuously on the cool
greensward.

"By all means.--James Bruce was a Scotchman, of
Stirlingshire, who, between 1768 and 1772, traversed all
Abyssinia, as far as Lake Tyana, in search of the sources
of the Nile. He afterward returned to England, but did
not publish an account of his journeys until 1790. His
statements were received with extreme incredulity, and
such may be the reception accorded to our own. The
manners and customs of the Abyssinians seemed so different
from those of the English, that no one would credit the
description of them. Among other details, Bruce had put
forward the assertion that the tribes of Eastern Africa fed
upon raw flesh, and this set everybody against him. He
might say so as much as he pleased; there was no one
likely to go and see! One day, in a parlor at Edinburgh,
a Scotch gentleman took up the subject in his presence, as
it had become the topic of daily pleasantry, and, in reference
to the eating of raw flesh, said that the thing was
neither possible nor true. Bruce made no reply, but went
out and returned a few minutes later with a raw steak,
seasoned with pepper and salt, in the African style.

"'Sir,' said he to the Scotchman, 'in doubting my
statements, you have grossly affronted me; in believing
the thing to be impossible, you have been egregiously
mistaken; and, in proof thereof, you will now eat this
beef-steak raw, or you will give me instant satisfaction!'
The Scotchman had a wholesome dread of the brawny
traveller, and DID eat the steak, although not without a
good many wry faces. Thereupon, with the utmost coolness,
James Bruce added: 'Even admitting, sir, that the
thing were untrue, you will, at least, no longer maintain
that it is impossible.'"

"Well put in!" said Joe, "and if the Scotchman
found it lie heavy on his stomach, he got no more than he
deserved. If, on our return to England, they dare to
doubt what we say about our travels--"

"Well, Joe, what would you do?"

"Why, I'll make the doubters swallow the pieces of
the balloon, without either salt or pepper!"

All burst out laughing at Joe's queer notions, and thus
the day slipped by in pleasant chat. With returning
strength, hope had revived, and with hope came the courage
to do and to dare. The past was obliterated in the
presence of the future with providential rapidity.

Joe would have been willing to remain forever in this
enchanting asylum; it was the realm he had pictured in
his dreams; he felt himself at home; his master had to
give him his exact location, and it was with the gravest
air imaginable that he wrote down on his tablets fifteen
degrees forty-three minutes east longitude, and eight degrees
thirty-two minutes north latitude.

Kennedy had but one regret, to wit, that he could not
hunt in that miniature forest, because, according to his
ideas, there was a slight deficiency of ferocious wild beasts
in it.

"But, my dear Dick," said the doctor, "haven't you
rather a short memory? How about the lion and the
lioness?"

"Oh, that!" he ejaculated with the contempt of a
thorough-bred sportsman for game already killed. "But
the fact is, that finding them here would lead one to
suppose that we can't be far from a more fertile country."

"It don't prove much, Dick, for those animals, when
goaded by hunger or thirst, will travel long distances, and
I think that, to-night, we had better keep a more vigilant
lookout, and light fires, besides."

"What, in such heat as this?" said Joe. "Well, if it's
necessary, we'll have to do it, but I do think it a real pity
to burn this pretty grove that has been such a comfort to us!"

"Oh! above all things, we must take the utmost care
not to set it on fire," replied the doctor, "so that others
in the same strait as ourselves may some day find shelter
here in the middle of the desert."

"I'll be very careful, indeed, doctor; but do you think
that this oasis is known?"

"Undoubtedly; it is a halting-place for the caravans
that frequent the centre of Africa, and a visit from one
of them might be any thing but pleasant to you, Joe."

"Why, are there any more of those rascally Nyam-Nyams
around here?"

"Certainly; that is the general name of all the neighboring
tribes, and, under the same climates, the same
races are likely to have similar manners and customs."

"Pah!" said Joe, "but, after all, it's natural enough.
If savages had the ways of gentlemen, where would be the
difference? By George, these fine fellows wouldn't have
to be coaxed long to eat the Scotchman's raw steak, nor
the Scotchman either, into the bargain!"

With this very sensible observation, Joe began to get
ready his firewood for the night, making just as little of
it as possible. Fortunately, these precautions were superfluous;
and each of the party, in his turn, dropped off into
the soundest slumber.

On the next day the weather still showed no sign of
change, but kept provokingly and obstinately fair. The
balloon remained motionless, without any oscillation to
betray a breath of wind.

The doctor began to get uneasy again. If their stay in the
desert were to be prolonged like this, their provisions
would give out. After nearly perishing for want of
water, they would, at last, have to starve to death!

But he took fresh courage as he saw the mercury fall
considerably in the barometer, and noticed evident signs
of an early change in the atmosphere. He therefore resolved
to make all his preparations for a start, so as to
avail himself of the first opportunity. The feeding-tank
and the water-tank were both completely filled.

Then he had to reestablish the equilibrium of the balloon,
and Joe was obliged to part with another considerable
portion of his precious quartz. With restored health,
his ambitious notions had come back to him, and he made
more than one wry face before obeying his master; but
the latter convinced him that he could not carry so considerable
a weight with him through the air, and gave
him his choice between the water and the gold. Joe
hesitated no longer, but flung out the requisite quantity
of his much-prized ore upon the sand.

"The next people who come this way," he remarked,
"will be rather surprised to find a fortune in such a
place."

"And suppose some learned traveller should come
across these specimens, eh?" suggested Kennedy.

"You may be certain, Dick, that they would take him
by surprise, and that he would publish his astonishment
in several folios; so that some day we shall hear of a
wonderful deposit of gold-bearing quartz in the midst of the
African sands!"

"And Joe there, will be the cause of it all!"

This idea of mystifying some learned sage tickled Joe
hugely, and made him laugh.

During the rest of the day the doctor vainly kept on
the watch for a change of weather. The temperature rose,
and, had it not been for the shade of the oasis, would have
been insupportable. The thermometer marked a hundred
and forty-nine degrees in the sun, and a veritable rain of
fire filled the air. This was the most intense heat that
they had yet noted.

Joe arranged their bivouac for that evening, as he had
done for the previous night; and during the watches kept
by the doctor and Kennedy there was no fresh incident.

But, toward three o'clock in the morning, while Joe
was on guard, the temperature suddenly fell; the sky
became overcast with clouds, and the darkness increased.

"Turn out!" cried Joe, arousing his companions.
"Turn out! Here's the wind!"

"At last!" exclaimed the doctor, eying the heavens.
"But it is a storm! The balloon! Let us hasten to the
balloon!"

It was high time for them to reach it. The Victoria
was bending to the force of the hurricane, and dragging
along the car, the latter grazing the sand. Had any portion
of the ballast been accidentally thrown out, the
balloon would have been swept away, and all hope of
recovering it have been forever lost.

But fleet-footed Joe put forth his utmost speed, and
checked the car, while the balloon beat upon the sand, at
the risk of being torn to pieces. The doctor, followed by
Kennedy, leaped in, and lit his cylinder, while his companions
threw out the superfluous ballast.

The travellers took one last look at the trees of the
oasis bowing to the force of the hurricane, and soon,
catching the wind at two hundred feet above the ground,
disappeared in the gloom.



CHAPTER TWENTY-NINTH.

Signs of Vegetation.--The Fantastic Notion of a French Author.--A
Magnificent Country.--The Kingdom of Adamova.--The Explorations of
Speke and Burton connected with those of Dr. Barth.--The Atlantika
Mountains.--The River Benoue.--The City of Yola.--The Bagele.--Mount
Mendif.

From the moment of their departure, the travellers
moved with great velocity. They longed to leave behind
them the desert, which had so nearly been fatal to them.

About a quarter-past nine in the morning, they caught
a glimpse of some signs of vegetation: herbage floating
on that sea of sand, and announcing, as the weeds upon
the ocean did to Christopher Columbus, the nearness of
the shore--green shoots peeping up timidly between pebbles
that were, in their turn, to be the rocks of that vast
expanse.

Hills, but of trifling height, were seen in wavy lines
upon the horizon. Their profile, muffled by the heavy
mist, was defined but vaguely. The monotony, however,
was beginning to disappear.

The doctor hailed with joy the new country thus disclosed,
and, like a seaman on lookout at the mast-head, he
was ready to shout aloud:

"Land, ho! land!"

An hour later the continent spread broadly before their
gaze, still wild in aspect, but less flat, less denuded, and
with a few trees standing out against the gray sky.

"We are in a civilized country at last!" said the hunter.

"Civilized? Well, that's one way of speaking; but
there are no people to be seen yet."

"It will not be long before we see them," said Ferguson,
"at our present rate of travel."

"Are we still in the negro country, doctor?"

"Yes, and on our way to the country of the Arabs."

"What! real Arabs, sir, with their camels?"

"No, not many camels; they are scarce, if not altogether
unknown, in these regions. We must go a few degrees farther
north to see them."

"What a pity!"

"And why, Joe?"

"Because, if the wind fell contrary, they might be of
use to us."

"How so?"

"Well, sir, it's just a notion that's got into my head:
we might hitch them to the car, and make them tow us
along. What do you say to that, doctor?"

"Poor Joe! Another person had that idea in advance
of you. It was used by a very gifted French author--
M. Mery--in a romance, it is true. He has his travellers
drawn along in a balloon by a team of camels; then a lion
comes up, devours the camels, swallows the tow-rope, and
hauls the balloon in their stead; and so on through the
story. You see that the whole thing is the top-flower of
fancy, but has nothing in common with our style of locomotion."

Joe, a little cut down at learning that his idea had
been used already, cudgelled his wits to imagine what
animal could have devoured the lion; but he could not
guess it, and so quietly went on scanning the appearance
of the country.

A lake of medium extent stretched away before him,
surrounded by an amphitheatre of hills, which yet could
not be dignified with the name of mountains. There were
winding valleys, numerous and fertile, with their tangled
thickets of the most various trees. The African oil-tree
rose above the mass, with leaves fifteen feet in length upon
its stalk, the latter studded with sharp thorns; the bombax,
or silk-cotton-tree, filled the wind, as it swept by,
with the fine down of its seeds; the pungent odors of the
pendanus, the "kenda" of the Arabs, perfumed the air
up to the height where the Victoria was sailing; the
papaw-tree, with its palm-shaped leaves; the sterculier,
which produces the Soudan-nut; the baobab, and the
banana-tree, completed the luxuriant flora of these
inter-tropical regions.

"The country is superb!" said the doctor.

"Here are some animals," added Joe. "Men are not
far away."

"Oh, what magnificent elephants!" exclaimed Kennedy.
"Is there no way to get a little shooting?"

"How could we manage to halt in a current as strong
as this? No, Dick; you must taste a little of the torture
of Tantalus just now. You shall make up for it afterward."

And, in truth, there was enough to excite the fancy of
a sportsman. Dick's heart fairly leaped in his breast as
he grasped the butt of his Purdy.

The fauna of the region were as striking as its flora.
The wild-ox revelled in dense herbage that often concealed
his whole body; gray, black, and yellow elephants of the
most gigantic size burst headlong, like a living hurricane,
through the forests, breaking, rending, tearing down,
devastating every thing in their path; upon the woody
slopes of the hills trickled cascades and springs flowing
northward; there, too, the hippopotami bathed their huge
forms, splashing and snorting as they frolicked in the
water, and lamantines, twelve feet long, with bodies like
seals, stretched themselves along the banks, turning up
toward the sun their rounded teats swollen with milk.

It was a whole menagerie of rare and curious beasts in
a wondrous hot-house, where numberless birds with plumage
of a thousand hues gleamed and fluttered in the sunshine.

By this prodigality of Nature, the doctor recognized
the splendid kingdom of Adamova.

"We are now beginning to trench upon the realm of
modern discovery. I have taken up the lost scent of preceding
travellers. It is a happy chance, my friends, for
we shall be enabled to link the toils of Captains Burton and
Speke with the explorations of Dr. Barth. We have left
the Englishmen behind us, and now have caught up with
the Hamburger. It will not be long, either, before we
arrive at the extreme point attained by that daring explorer."

"It seems to me that there is a vast extent of country
between the two explored routes," remarked Kennedy;
"at least, if I am to judge by the distance that we have
made."

"It is easy to determine: take the map and see what
is the longitude of the southern point of Lake Ukereoue,
reached by Speke."

"It is near the thirty-seventh degree."

"And the city of Yola, which we shall sight this evening,
and to which Barth penetrated, what is its position?"

"It is about in the twelfth degree of east longitude."

"Then there are twenty-five degrees, or, counting sixty
miles to each, about fifteen hundred miles in all."

"A nice little walk," said Joe, "for people who have
to go on foot."

"It will be accomplished, however. Livingstone and
Moffat are pushing on up this line toward the interior.
Nyassa, which they have discovered, is not far from Lake
Tanganayika, seen by Burton. Ere the close of the century
these regions will, undoubtedly, be explored. But," added
the doctor, consulting his compass, "I regret that the
wind is carrying us so far to the westward. I wanted to
get to the north."

After twelve hours of progress, the Victoria found herself
on the confines of Nigritia. The first inhabitants of
this region, the Chouas Arabs, were feeding their wandering
flocks. The immense summits of the Atlantika Mountains
seen above the horizon--mountains that no European
foot had yet scaled, and whose height is computed to be
ten thousand feet! Their western slope determines the
flow of all the waters in this region of Africa toward the
ocean. They are the Mountains of the Moon to this part
of the continent.

At length a real river greeted the gaze of our travellers,
and, by the enormous ant-hills seen in its vicinity, the
doctor recognized the Benoue, one of the great tributaries
of the Niger, the one which the natives have called "The
Fountain of the Waters."

"This river," said the doctor to his companions, "will,
one day, be the natural channel of communication with
the interior of Nigritia. Under the command of one of
our brave captains, the steamer Pleiad has already ascended
as far as the town of Yola. You see that we are
not in an unknown country."

Numerous slaves were engaged in the labors of the
field, cultivating sorgho, a kind of millet which forms the
chief basis of their diet; and the most stupid expressions
of astonishment ensued as the Victoria sped past like a
meteor. That evening the balloon halted about forty miles
from Yola, and ahead of it, but in the distance, rose the
two sharp cones of Mount Mendif.

The doctor threw out his anchors and made fast to the
top of a high tree; but a very violent wind beat upon the
balloon with such force as to throw it over on its side, thus
rendering the position of the car sometimes extremely
dangerous. Ferguson did not close his all night, and
he was repeatedly on the point of cutting the anchor-rope
and scudding away before the gale. At length, however,
the storm abated, and the oscillations of the balloon ceased
to be alarming.

On the morrow the wind was more moderate, but it
carried our travellers away from the city of Yola, which
recently rebuilt by the Fouillans, excited Ferguson's curiosity.
However, he had to make up his mind to being borne farther
to the northward and even a little to the east.

Kennedy proposed to halt in this fine hunting-country,
and Joe declared that the need of fresh meat was beginning
to be felt; but the savage customs of the country,
the attitude of the population, and some shots fired at the
Victoria, admonished the doctor to continue his journey.
They were then crossing a region that was the scene of
massacres and burnings, and where warlike conflicts between
the barbarian sultans, contending for their power
amid the most atrocious carnage, never cease.

Numerous and populous villages of long low huts
stretched away between broad pasture-fields whose dense
herbage was besprinkled with violet-colored blossoms.
The huts, looking like huge beehives, were sheltered behind
bristling palisades. The wild hill-sides and hollows
frequently reminded the beholder of the glens in the Highlands
of Scotland, as Kennedy more than once remarked.

In spite of all he could do, the doctor bore directly to
the northeast, toward Mount Mendif, which was lost in
the midst of environing clouds. The lofty summits of
these mountains separate the valley of the Niger from the
basin of Lake Tchad.

Soon afterward was seen the Bagele, with its eighteen
villages clinging to its flanks like a whole brood of children
to their mother's bosom--a magnificent spectacle for
the beholder whose gaze commanded and took in the entire
picture at one view. Even the ravines were seen to
be covered with fields of rice and of arachides.

By three o'clock the Victoria was directly in front of
Mount Mendif. It had been impossible to avoid it; the
only thing to be done was to cross it. The doctor, by
means of a temperature increased to one hundred and
eighty degrees, gave the balloon a fresh ascensional force
of nearly sixteen hundred pounds, and it went up to an
elevation of more than eight thousand feet, the greatest
height attained during the journey. The temperature of
the atmosphere was so much cooler at that point that the
aeronauts had to resort to their blankets and thick coverings.

Ferguson was in haste to descend; the covering of the
balloon gave indications of bursting, but in the meanwhile
he had time to satisfy himself of the volcanic origin of the
mountain, whose extinct craters are now but deep abysses.
Immense accumulations of bird-guano gave the sides of
Mount Mendif the appearance of calcareous rocks, and there
was enough of the deposit there to manure all the lands in
the United Kingdom.

At five o'clock the Victoria, sheltered from the south
winds, went gently gliding along the slopes of the mountain,
and stopped in a wide clearing remote from any habitation.
The instant it touched the soil, all needful precautions
were taken to hold it there firmly; and Kennedy,
fowling-piece in hand, sallied out upon the sloping plain.
Ere long, he returned with half a dozen wild ducks and a
kind of snipe, which Joe served up in his best style. The
meal was heartily relished, and the night was passed in
undisturbed and refreshing slumber.



CHAPTER THIRTIETH.

Mosfeia.--The Sheik.--Denham, Clapperton, and Oudney.--Vogel.--The Capital
of Loggoum.--Toole.--Becalmed above Kernak.--The Governor and his Court.
--The Attack.--The Incendiary Pigeons.

On the next day, May 11th, the Victoria resumed her
adventurous journey. Her passengers had the same confidence
in her that a good seaman has in his ship.

In terrific hurricanes, in tropical heats, when making
dangerous departures, and descents still more dangerous,
it had, at all times and in all places, come out safely. It
might almost have been said that Ferguson managed it
with a wave of the hand; and hence, without knowing in
advance, where the point of arrival would be, the doctor
had no fears concerning the successful issue of his journey.
However, in this country of barbarians and fanatics, prudence
obliged him to take the strictest precautions. He
therefore counselled his companions to have their eyes
wide open for every thing and at all hours.

The wind drifted a little more to the northward, and,
toward nine o'clock, they sighted the larger city of Mosfeia,
built upon an eminence which was itself enclosed between
two lofty mountains. Its position was impregnable,
a narrow road running between a marsh and a thick wood
being the only channel of approach to it.

At the moment of which we write, a sheik, accompanied
by a mounted escort, and clad in a garb of brilliant
colors, preceded by couriers and trumpeters, who put aside
the boughs of the trees as he rode up, was making his
grand entry into the place.

The doctor lowered the balloon in order to get a better
look at this cavalcade of natives; but, as the balloon
grew larger to their eyes, they began to show symptoms
of intense affright, and at length made off in different
directions as fast as their legs and those of their horses
could carry them.

The sheik alone did not budge an inch. He merely
grasped his long musket, cocked it, and proudly waited in
silence. The doctor came on to within a hundred and
fifty feet of him, and then, with his roundest and fullest
voice, saluted him courteously in the Arabic tongue.

But, upon hearing these words falling, as it seemed,
from the sky, the sheik dismounted and prostrated himself
in the dust of the highway, where the doctor had to
leave him, finding it impossible to divert him from his
adoration.

"Unquestionably," Ferguson remarked, "those people
take us for supernatural beings. When Europeans came
among them for the first time, they were mistaken for
creatures of a higher race. When this sheik comes to
speak of to-day's meeting, he will not fail to embellish the
circumstance with all the resources of an Arab imagination.
You may, therefore, judge what an account their
legends will give of us some day."

"Not such a desirable thing, after all," said the Scot,
"in the point of view that affects civilization; it would be
better to pass for mere men. That would give these negro
races a superior idea of European power."

"Very good, my dear Dick; but what can we do about
it? You might sit all day explaining the mechanism of
a balloon to the savants of this country, and yet they would
not comprehend you, but would persist in ascribing it to
supernatural aid."

"Doctor, you spoke of the first time Europeans visited
these regions. Who were the visitors?" inquired Joe.

"My dear fellow, we are now upon the very track of
Major Denham. It was at this very city of Mosfeia that
he was received by the Sultan of Mandara; he had quitted
the Bornou country; he accompanied the sheik in an expedition
against the Fellatahs; he assisted in the attack
on the city, which, with its arrows alone, bravely resisted
the bullets of the Arabs, and put the sheik's troops to
flight. All this was but a pretext for murders, raids, and
pillage. The major was completely plundered and stripped,
and had it not been for his horse, under whose stomach he
clung with the skill of an Indian rider, and was borne with
a headlong gallop from his barbarous pursuers, he never
could have made his way back to Kouka, the capital of
Bornou."

"Who was this Major Denham?"

"A fearless Englishman, who, between 1822 and 1824,
commanded an expedition into the Bornou country, in
company with Captain Clapperton and Dr. Oudney. They
set out from Tripoli in the month of March, reached Mourzouk,
the capital of Fez, and, following the route which at
a later period Dr. Barth was to pursue on his way back to
Europe, they arrived, on the 16th of February, 1823, at
Kouka, near Lake Tchad. Denham made several explorations
in Bornou, in Mandara, and to the eastern shores of
the lake. In the mean time, on the 15th of December,
1823, Captain Clapperton and Dr. Oudney had pushed
their way through the Soudan country as far as Sackatoo,
and Oudney died of fatigue and exhaustion in the town
of Murmur."

"This part of Africa has, therefore, paid a heavy tribute
of victims to the cause of science," said Kennedy.

"Yes, this country is fatal to travellers. We are moving
directly toward the kingdom of Baghirmi, which Vogel
traversed in 1856, so as to reach the Wadai country, where
he disappeared. This young man, at the age of twenty-three,
had been sent to cooperate with Dr. Barth. They
met on the 1st of December, 1854, and thereupon commenced
his explorations of the country. Toward 1856, he
announced, in the last letters received from him, his
intention to reconnoitre the kingdom of Wadai, which no
European had yet penetrated. It appears that he got as
far as Wara, the capital, where, according to some accounts,
he was made prisoner, and, according to others,
was put to death for having attempted to ascend a sacred
mountain in the environs. But, we must not too lightly
admit the death of travellers, since that does away with
the necessity of going in search of them. For instance,
how often was the death of Dr. Barth reported, to his
own great annoyance! It is, therefore, very possible that
Vogel may still be held as a prisoner by the Sultan of
Wadai, in the hope of obtaining a good ransom for him.

"Baron de Neimans was about starting for the Wadai
country when he died at Cairo, in 1855; and we now know
that De Heuglin has set out on Vogel's track with the
expedition sent from Leipsic, so that we shall soon be
accurately informed as to the fate of that young and
interesting explorer."*

* Since the doctor's departure, letters written from El'Obeid
by Mr. Muntzinger, the newly-appointed head of the expedition,
unfortunately place the death of Vogel beyond a doubt.

Mosfeia had disappeared from the horizon long ere this,
and the Mandara country was developing to the gaze of
our aeronauts its astonishing fertility, with its forests of
acacias, its locust-trees covered with red flowers, and the
herbaceous plants of its fields of cotton and indigo trees.
The river Shari, which eighty miles farther on rolled its
impetuous waters into Lake Tchad, was quite distinctly
seen.

The doctor got his companions to trace its course upon
the maps drawn by Dr. Barth.

"You perceive," said he, "that the labors of this savant
have been conducted with great precision; we are moving
directly toward the Loggoum region, and perhaps toward
Kernak, its capital. It was there that poor Toole died, at
the age of scarcely twenty-two. He was a young Englishman,
an ensign in the 80th regiment, who, a few weeks
before, had joined Major Denham in Africa, and it was
not long ere he there met his death. Ah! this vast
country might well be called the graveyard of European
travellers."

Some boats, fifty feet long, were descending the current
of the Shari. The Victoria, then one thousand feet
above the soil, hardly attracted the attention of the
natives; but the wind, which until then had been blowing
with a certain degree of strength, was falling off.

"Is it possible that we are to be caught in another dead
calm?" sighed the doctor.

"Well, we've no lack of water, nor the desert to fear,
anyhow, master," said Joe.

"No; but there are races here still more to be dreaded."

"Why!" said Joe, again, "there's something like a town."

"That is Kernak. The last puffs of the breeze are
wafting us to it, and, if we choose, we can take an exact
plan of the place."

"Shall we not go nearer to it?" asked Kennedy.

"Nothing easier, Dick! We are right over it. Allow
me to turn the stopcock of the cylinder, and we'll not be
long in descending."

Half an hour later the balloon hung motionless about
two hundred feet from the ground.

"Here we are!" said the doctor, "nearer to Kernak
than a man would be to London, if he were perched in the
cupola of St. Paul's. So we can take a survey at our
ease."

"What is that tick-tacking sound that we hear on all sides?"

Joe looked attentively, and at length discovered that
the noise they heard was produced by a number of weavers
beating cloth stretched in the open air, on large trunks of
trees.

The capital of Loggoum could then be seen in its entire
extent, like an unrolled chart. It is really a city with
straight rows of houses and quite wide streets. In the
midst of a large open space there was a slave-market,
attended by a great crowd of customers, for the Mandara
women, who have extremely small hands and feet, are in
excellent request, and can be sold at lucrative rates.

At the sight of the Victoria, the scene so often produced
occurred again. At first there were outcries, and
then followed general stupefaction; business was abandoned;
work was flung aside, and all noise ceased. The
aeronauts remained as they were, completely motionless,
and lost not a detail of the populous city. They even
went down to within sixty feet of the ground.

Hereupon the Governor of Loggoum came out from his residence,
displaying his green standard, and accompanied by his
musicians, who blew on hoarse buffalo-horns, as though
they would split their cheeks or any thing else,
excepting their own lungs. The crowd at once gathered
around him. In the mean while Dr. Ferguson tried to
make himself heard, but in vain.

This population looked like proud and intelligent people,
with their high foreheads, their almost aquiline noses,
and their curling hair; but the presence of the Victoria
troubled them greatly. Horsemen could be seen galloping
in all directions, and it soon became evident that the
governor's troops were assembling to oppose so extraordinary
a foe. Joe wore himself out waving handkerchiefs
of every color and shape to them; but his exertions were
all to no purpose.

However, the sheik, surrounded by his court, proclaimed
silence, and pronounced a discourse, of which the
doctor could not understand a word. It was Arabic, mixed
with Baghirmi. He could make out enough, however, by
the universal language of gestures, to be aware that he
was receiving a very polite invitation to depart. Indeed,
he would have asked for nothing better, but for lack of
wind, the thing had become impossible. His noncompliance,
therefore, exasperated the governor, whose courtiers
and attendants set up a furious howl to enforce immediate
obedience on the part of the aerial monster.

They were odd-looking fellows those courtiers, with
their five or six shirts swathed around their bodies! They
had enormous stomachs, some of which actually seemed
to be artificial. The doctor surprised his companions by
informing them that this was the way to pay court to the
sultan. The rotundity of the stomach indicated the ambition
of its possessor. These corpulent gentry gesticulated
and bawled at the top of their voices--one of them
particularly distinguishing himself above the rest--to
such an extent, indeed, that he must have been a prime
minister--at least, if the disturbance he made was any
criterion of his rank. The common rabble of dusky denizens
united their howlings with the uproar of the court,
repeating their gesticulations like so many monkeys, and
thereby producing a single and instantaneous movement
of ten thousand arms at one time.

To these means of intimidation, which were presently
deemed insufficient, were added others still more formidable.
Soldiers, armed with bows and arrows, were drawn
up in line of battle; but by this time the balloon was
expanding, and rising quietly beyond their reach. Upon
this the governor seized a musket and aimed it at the
balloon; but, Kennedy, who was watching him, shattered
the uplifted weapon in the sheik's grasp.

At this unexpected blow there was a general rout.
Every mother's son of them scampered for his dwelling
with the utmost celerity, and stayed there, so that the
streets of the town were absolutely deserted for the remainder
of that day.

Night came, and not a breath of wind was stirring.
The aeronauts had to make up their minds to remain
motionless at the distance of but three hundred feet
above the ground. Not a fire or light shone in the deep
gloom, and around reigned the silence of death; but the
doctor only redoubled his vigilance, as this apparent quiet
might conceal some snare.

And he had reason to be watchful. About midnight,
the whole city seemed to be in a blaze. Hundreds of
streaks of flame crossed each other, and shot to and fro
in the air like rockets, forming a regular network of fire.

"That's really curious!" said the doctor, somewhat
puzzled to make out what it meant.

"By all that's glorious!" shouted Kennedy, "it looks
as if the fire were ascending and coming up toward us!"

And, sure enough, with an accompaniment of musket-shots,
yelling, and din of every description, the mass of
fire was, indeed, mounting toward the Victoria. Joe got
ready to throw out ballast, and Ferguson was not long at
guessing the truth. Thousands of pigeons, their tails garnished
with combustibles, had been set loose and driven
toward the Victoria; and now, in their terror, they were
flying high up, zigzagging the atmosphere with lines of
fire. Kennedy was preparing to discharge all his batteries
into the middle of the ascending multitude, but what
could he have done against such a numberless army?
The pigeons were already whisking around the car; they
were even surrounding the balloon, the sides of which,
reflecting their illumination, looked as though enveloped
with a network of fire.

The doctor dared hesitate no longer; and, throwing
out a fragment of quartz, he kept himself beyond the
reach of these dangerous assailants; and, for two hours
afterward, he could see them wandering hither and thither
through the darkness of the night, until, little by little,
their light diminished, and they, one by one, died out.

"Now we may sleep in quiet," said the doctor.

"Not badly got up for barbarians," mused friend Joe,
speaking his thoughts aloud.

"Oh, they employ these pigeons frequently, to set fire
to the thatch of hostile villages; but this time the village
mounted higher than they could go."

"Why, positively, a balloon need fear no enemies!"

"Yes, indeed, it may!" objected Ferguson.

"What are they, then, doctor?"

"They are the careless people in the car! So, my friends,
let us have vigilance in all places and at all times."



CHAPTER THIRTY-FIRST.

Departure in the Night-time.--All Three.--Kennedy's Instincts.--Precautions.--
The Course of the Shari River.--Lake Tchad.--The Water of the Lake.--The
Hippopotamus.--One Bullet thrown away.

About three o'clock in the morning, Joe, who was then
on watch, at length saw the city move away from beneath
his feet. The Victoria was once again in motion, and
both the doctor and Kennedy awoke.

The former consulted his compass, and saw, with satisfaction,
that the wind was carrying them toward the north-northeast.

"We are in luck!" said he; "every thing works in
our favor: we shall discover Lake Tchad this very day."

"Is it a broad sheet of water?" asked Kennedy.

"Somewhat, Dick. At its greatest length and breadth,
it measures about one hundred and twenty miles."

"It will spice our trip with a little variety to sail
over a spacious sheet of water."

"After all, though, I don't see that we have much to
complain of on that score. Our trip has been very much
varied, indeed; and, moreover, we are getting on under
the best possible conditions."

"Unquestionably so; excepting those privations on
the desert, we have encountered no serious danger."

"It is not to be denied that our noble balloon has
behaved wonderfully well. To-day is May 12th, and we
started on the 18th of April. That makes twenty-five
days of journeying. In ten days more we shall have
reached our destination."

"Where is that?"

"I do not know. But what does that signify?"

"You are right again, Samuel! Let us intrust to Providence
the care of guiding us and of keeping us in good
health as we are now. We don't look much as though
we had been crossing the most pestilential country in the
world!"

"We had an opportunity of getting up in life, and that's
what we have done!"

"Hurrah for trips in the air!" cried Joe. "Here we
are at the end of twenty-five days in good condition, well
fed, and well rested. We've had too much rest in fact,
for my legs begin to feel rusty, and I wouldn't be vexed
a bit to stretch them with a run of thirty miles or so!"

"You can do that, Joe, in the streets of London, but
in fine we set out three together, like Denham, Clapperton,
and Overweg; like Barth, Richardson, and Vogel, and,
more fortunate than our predecessors here, we are three
in number still. But it is most important for us not to
separate. If, while one of us was on the ground, the
Victoria should have to ascend in order to escape some
sudden danger, who knows whether we should ever see
each other again? Therefore it is that I say again to
Kennedy frankly that I do not like his going off alone to
hunt."

"But still, Samuel, you will permit me to indulge that
fancy a little. There is no harm in renewing our stock of
provisions. Besides, before our departure, you held out
to me the prospect of some superb hunting, and thus far I
have done but little in the line of the Andersons and Cummings."

"But, my dear Dick, your memory fails you, or your
modesty makes you forget your own exploits. It really
seems to me that, without mentioning small game, you
have already an antelope, an elephant, and two lions on
your conscience."

"But what's all that to an African sportsman who sees
all the animals in creation strutting along under the
muzzle of his rifle? There! there! look at that troop of
giraffes!"

"Those giraffes," roared Joe; "why, they're not as big
as my fist."

"Because we are a thousand feet above them; but close
to them you would discover that they are three times as
tall as you are!"

"And what do you say to yon herd of gazelles, and
those ostriches, that run with the speed of the wind?"
resumed Kennedy.

"Those ostriches?" remonstrated Joe, again; "those
are chickens, and the greatest kind of chickens!"

"Come, doctor, can't we get down nearer to them?"
pleaded Kennedy.

"We can get closer to them, Dick, but we must not
land. And what good will it do you to strike down those
poor animals when they can be of no use to you? Now,
if the question were to destroy a lion, a tiger, a cat, a
hyena, I could understand it; but to deprive an antelope
or a gazelle of life, to no other purpose than the gratification
of your instincts as a sportsman, seems hardly worth
the trouble. But, after all, my friend, we are going to
keep at about one hundred feet only from the soil, and,
should you see any ferocious wild beast, oblige us by sending
a ball through its heart!"

The Victoria descended gradually, but still keeping at a safe
height, for, in a barbarous, yet very populous country, it was
necessary to keep on the watch for unexpected perils.

The travellers were then directly following the course
of the Shari. The charming banks of this river were
hidden beneath the foliage of trees of various dyes; lianas
and climbing plants wound in and out on all sides and
formed the most curious combinations of color. Crocodiles
were seen basking in the broad blaze of the sun or plunging
beneath the waters with the agility of lizards, and in
their gambols they sported about among the many green
islands that intercept the current of the stream.

It was thus, in the midst of rich and verdant landscapes
that our travellers passed over the district of Maffatay,
and about nine o'clock in the morning reached the
southern shore of Lake Tchad.

There it was at last, outstretched before them, that
Caspian Sea of Africa, the existence of which was so long
consigned to the realms of fable--that interior expanse of
water to which only Denham's and Barth's expeditions
had been able to force their way.

The doctor strove in vain to fix its precise configuration
upon paper. It had already changed greatly since
1847. In fact, the chart of Lake Tchad is very difficult to
trace with exactitude, for it is surrounded by muddy and
almost impassable morasses, in which Barth thought that
he was doomed to perish. From year to year these
marshes, covered with reeds and papyrus fifteen feet high,
become the lake itself. Frequently, too, the villages on
its shores are half submerged, as was the case with Ngornou
in 1856, and now the hippopotamus and the alligator
frisk and dive where the dwellings of Bornou once stood.

The sun shot his dazzling rays over this placid sheet
of water, and toward the north the two elements merged
into one and the same horizon.

The doctor was desirous of determining the character
of the water, which was long believed to be salt. There
was no danger in descending close to the lake, and the car
was soon skimming its surface like a bird at the distance
of only five feet.

Joe plunged a bottle into the lake and drew it up half
filled. The water was then tasted and found to be but
little fit for drinking, with a certain carbonate-of-soda
flavor.

While the doctor was jotting down the result of this
experiment, the loud report of a gun was heard close beside
him. Kennedy had not been able to resist the temptation
of firing at a huge hippopotamus. The latter, who
had been basking quietly, disappeared at the sound of the
explosion, but did not seem to be otherwise incommoded
by Kennedy's conical bullet.

"You'd have done better if you had harpooned him,"
said Joe.

"But how?"

"With one of our anchors. It would have been a hook
just big enough for such a rousing beast as that!"

"Humph!" ejaculated Kennedy, "Joe really has an
idea this time--"

"Which I beg of you not to put into execution," interposed
the doctor. "The animal would very quickly have
dragged us where we could not have done much to help
ourselves, and where we have no business to be."

"Especially now since we've settled the question as to
what kind of water there is in Lake Tchad. Is that sort
of fish good to eat, Dr. Ferguson?"

"That fish, as you call it, Joe, is really a mammiferous
animal of the pachydermal species. Its flesh is said to be
excellent and is an article of important trade between the
tribes living along the borders of the lake."

"Then I'm sorry that Mr. Kennedy's shot didn't do
more damage."

"The animal is vulnerable only in the stomach and between
the thighs. Dick's ball hasn't even marked him;
but should the ground strike me as favorable, we shall halt
at the northern end of the lake, where Kennedy will find
himself in the midst of a whole menagerie, and can make
up for lost time."

"Well," said Joe, "I hope then that Mr. Kennedy
will hunt the hippopotamus a little; I'd like to taste the
meat of that queer-looking beast. It doesn't look exactly
natural to get away into the centre of Africa, to feed on
snipe and partridge, just as if we were in England."



CHAPTER THIRTY-SECOND.

The Capital of Bornou.--The Islands of the Biddiomahs.--The Condors.--The
Doctor's Anxieties.--His Precautions.--An Attack in Mid-air.--The Balloon
Covering torn.--The Fall.--Sublime Self-Sacrifice.--The Northern Coast of
the Lake.

Since its arrival at Lake Tchad, the balloon had struck
a current that edged it farther to the westward. A few
clouds tempered the heat of the day, and, besides, a little
air could be felt over this vast expanse of water; but about
one o'clock, the Victoria, having slanted across this part
of the lake, again advanced over the land for a space of
seven or eight miles.

The doctor, who was somewhat vexed at first at this
turn of his course, no longer thought of complaining when
he caught sight of the city of Kouka, the capital of Bornou.
He saw it for a moment, encircled by its walls of
white clay, and a few rudely-constructed mosques rising
clumsily above that conglomeration of houses that look
like playing-dice, which form most Arab towns. In the
court-yards of the private dwellings, and on the public
squares, grew palms and caoutchouc-trees topped with a
dome of foliage more than one hundred feet in breadth.
Joe called attention to the fact that these immense parasols
were in proper accordance with the intense heat of
the sun, and made thereon some pious reflections which it
were needless to repeat.

Kouka really consists of two distinct towns, separated
by the "Dendal," a large boulevard three hundred
yards wide, at that hour crowded with horsemen and foot
passengers. On one side, the rich quarter stands squarely
with its airy and lofty houses, laid out in regular order;
on the other, is huddled together the poor quarter, a miserable
collection of low hovels of a conical shape, in which
a poverty-stricken multitude vegetate rather than live,
since Kouka is neither a trading nor a commercial city.

Kennedy thought it looked something like Edinburgh,
were that city extended on a plain, with its two distinct
boroughs.

But our travellers had scarcely the time to catch even
this glimpse of it, for, with the fickleness that characterizes
the air-currents of this region, a contrary wind suddenly
swept them some forty miles over the surface of Lake Tchad.

Then then were regaled with a new spectacle. They
could count the numerous islets of the lake, inhabited by
the Biddiomahs, a race of bloodthirsty and formidable
pirates, who are as greatly feared when neighbors as are
the Touaregs of Sahara.

These estimable people were in readiness to receive the
Victoria bravely with stones and arrows, but the balloon
quickly passed their islands, fluttering over them, from one
to the other with butterfly motion, like a gigantic beetle.

At this moment, Joe, who was scanning the horizon,
said to Kennedy:

"There, sir, as you are always thinking of good sport,
yonder is just the thing for you!"

"What is it, Joe?"

"This time, the doctor will not disapprove of your shooting."

"But what is it?"

"Don't you see that flock of big birds making for us?"

"Birds?" exclaimed the doctor, snatching his spyglass.

"I see them," replied Kennedy; "there are at least a
dozen of them."

"Fourteen, exactly!" said Joe.

"Heaven grant that they may be of a kind sufficiently
noxious for the doctor to let me peg away at them!"

"I should not object, but I would much rather see
those birds at a distance from us!"

"Why, are you afraid of those fowls?"

"They are condors, and of the largest size. Should
they attack us--"

"Well, if they do, we'll defend ourselves. We have a
whole arsenal at our disposal. I don't think those birds
are so very formidable."

"Who can tell?" was the doctor's only remark.

Ten minutes later, the flock had come within gunshot,
and were making the air ring with their hoarse cries. They
came right toward the Victoria, more irritated than frightened
by her presence.

"How they scream! What a noise!" said Joe.

"Perhaps they don't like to see anybody poaching in their
country up in the air, or daring to fly like themselves!"

"Well, now, to tell the truth, when I take a good look
at them, they are an ugly, ferocious set, and I should think
them dangerous enough if they were armed with Purdy-Moore
rifles," admitted Kennedy.

"They have no need of such weapons," said Ferguson,
looking very grave.

The condors flew around them in wide circles, their
flight growing gradually closer and closer to the balloon.
They swept through the air in rapid, fantastic curves,
occasionally precipitating themselves headlong with the
speed of a bullet, and then breaking their line of projection
by an abrupt and daring angle.

The doctor, much disquieted, resolved to ascend so as
to escape this dangerous proximity. He therefore dilated
the hydrogen in his balloon, and it rapidly rose.

But the condors mounted with him, apparently determined
not to part company.

"They seem to mean mischief!" said the hunter, cocking
his rifle.

And, in fact, they were swooping nearer, and more than
one came within fifty feet of them, as if defying the fire-arms.

"By George, I'm itching to let them have it!" exclaimed
Kennedy.

"No, Dick; not now! Don't exasperate them needlessly.
That would only be exciting them to attack us!"

"But I could soon settle those fellows!"

"You may think so, Dick. But you are wrong!"

"Why, we have a bullet for each of them!"

"And suppose that they were to attack the upper part
of the balloon, what would you do? How would you get
at them? Just imagine yourself in the presence of a troop
of lions on the plain, or a school of sharks in the open
ocean! For travellers in the air, this situation is just as
dangerous."

"Are you speaking seriously, doctor?"

"Very seriously, Dick."

"Let us wait, then!"

"Wait! Hold yourself in readiness in case of an attack,
but do not fire without my orders."

The birds then collected at a short distance, yet to
near that their naked necks, entirely bare of feathers, could
be plainly seen, as they stretched them out with the effort
of their cries, while their gristly crests, garnished with a
comb and gills of deep violet, stood erect with rage. They
were of the very largest size, their bodies being more than
three feet in length, and the lower surface of their white
wings glittering in the sunlight. They might well have
been considered winged sharks, so striking was their resemblance
to those ferocious rangers of the deep.

"They are following us!" said the doctor, as he saw
them ascending with him, "and, mount as we may, they
can fly still higher!"

"Well, what are we to do?" asked Kennedy.

The doctor made no answer.

"Listen, Samuel!" said the sportsman. "There are
fourteen of those birds; we have seventeen shots at our
disposal if we discharge all our weapons. Have we not
the means, then, to destroy them or disperse them? I
will give a good account of some of them!"

"I have no doubt of your skill, Dick; I look upon all
as dead that may come within range of your rifle, but I
repeat that, if they attack the upper part of the balloon,
you could not get a sight at them. They would tear the
silk covering that sustains us, and we are three thousand
feet up in the air!"

At this moment, one of the ferocious birds darted right
at the balloon, with outstretched beak and claws, ready to
rend it with either or both.

"Fire! fire at once!" cried the doctor.

He had scarcely ceased, ere the huge creature, stricken
dead, dropped headlong, turning over and over in space as
he fell.

Kennedy had already grasped one of the two-barrelled
fowling-pieces and Joe was taking aim with another.

Frightened by the report, the condors drew back for a
moment, but they almost instantly returned to the charge
with extreme fury. Kennedy severed the head of one
from its body with his first shot, and Joe broke the wing
of another.

"Only eleven left," said he.

Thereupon the birds changed their tactics, and by common
consent soared above the balloon. Kennedy glanced at
Ferguson. The latter, in spite of his imperturbability,
grew pale. Then ensued a moment of terrifying silence.
In the next they heard a harsh tearing noise, as of
something rending the silk, and the car seemed to sink
from beneath the feet of our three aeronauts.

"We are lost!" exclaimed Ferguson, glancing at the
barometer, which was now swiftly rising.

"Over with the ballast!" he shouted, "over with it!"

And in a few seconds the last lumps of quartz had disappeared.

"We are still falling! Empty the water-tanks! Do
you hear me, Joe? We are pitching into the lake!"

Joe obeyed. The doctor leaned over and looked out.
The lake seemed to come up toward him like a rising tide.
Every object around grew rapidly in size while they were
looking at it. The car was not two hundred feet from the
surface of Lake Tchad.

"The provisions! the provisions!" cried the doctor.

And the box containing them was launched into space.

Their descent became less rapid, but the luckless
aeronauts were still falling, and into the lake.

"Throw out something--something more!" cried the doctor.

"There is nothing more to throw!" was Kennedy's
despairing response.

"Yes, there is!" called Joe, and with a wave of the hand
he disappeared like a flash, over the edge of the car.

"Joe! Joe!" exclaimed the doctor, horror-stricken.

The Victoria thus relieved resumed her ascending motion,
mounted a thousand feet into the air, and the wind,
burying itself in the disinflated covering, bore them away
toward the northern part of the lake.

"Lost!" exclaimed the sportsman, with a gesture of despair.

"Lost to save us!" responded Ferguson.

And these men, intrepid as they were, felt the large
tears streaming down their cheeks. They leaned over
with the vain hope of seeing some trace of their heroic
companion, but they were already far away from him.

"What course shall we pursue?" asked Kennedy.

"Alight as soon as possible, Dick, and then wait."

After a sweep of some sixty miles the Victoria halted
on a desert shore, on the north of the lake. The anchors
caught in a low tree and the sportsman fastened it securely.
Night came, but neither Ferguson nor Kennedy could
find one moment's sleep.



CHAPTER THIRTY-THIRD.

Conjectures.--Reestablishment of the Victoria's Equilibrium.--Dr.
Ferguson's New Calculations.--Kennedy's Hunt.--A Complete Exploration
of Lake Tchad.--Tangalia.--The Return.--Lari.

On the morrow, the 13th of May, our travellers, for
the first time, reconnoitred the part of the coast on which
they had landed. It was a sort of island of solid ground
in the midst of an immense marsh. Around this fragment
of terra firma grew reeds as lofty as trees are in Europe,
and stretching away out of sight.

These impenetrable swamps gave security to the position
of the balloon. It was necessary to watch only the
borders of the lake. The vast stretch of water broadened
away from the spot, especially toward the east, and nothing
could be seen on the horizon, neither mainland nor islands.

The two friends had not yet ventured to speak of their
recent companion. Kennedy first imparted his conjectures
to the doctor.

"Perhaps Joe is not lost after all," he said. "He was
a skilful lad, and had few equals as a swimmer. He would
find no difficulty in swimming across the Firth of Forth at
Edinburgh. We shall see him again--but how and where
I know not. Let us omit nothing on our part to give him
the chance of rejoining us."

"May God grant it as you say, Dick!" replied the
doctor, with much emotion. "We shall do everything in
the world to find our lost friend again. Let us, in the first
place, see where we are. But, above all things, let us rid
the Victoria of this outside covering, which is of no further
use. That will relieve us of six hundred and fifty pounds,
a weight not to be despised--and the end is worth the
trouble!"

The doctor and Kennedy went to work at once, but
they encountered great difficulty. They had to tear the
strong silk away piece by piece, and then cut it in narrow
strips so as to extricate it from the meshes of the network.
The tear made by the beaks of the condors was found to
be several feet in length.

This operation took at least four hours, but at length
the inner balloon once completely extricated did not appear
to have suffered in the least degree. The Victoria was
thus diminished in size by one fifth, and this difference
was sufficiently noticeable to excite Kennedy's surprise.

"Will it be large enough?" he asked.

"Have no fears on that score, I will reestablish the
equilibrium, and should our poor Joe return we shall find
a way to start off with him again on our old route."

"At the moment of our fall, unless I am mistaken, we
were not far from an island."

"Yes, I recollect it," said the doctor, "but that island,
like all the islands on Lake Tchad, is, no doubt, inhabited
by a gang of pirates and murderers. They certainly witnessed
our misfortune, and should Joe fall into their hands, what
will become of him unless protected by their superstitions?"

"Oh, he's just the lad to get safely out of the scrape, I repeat.
I have great confidence in his shrewdness and skill."

"I hope so. Now, Dick, you may go and hunt in the
neighborhood, but don't get far away whatever you do.
It has become a pressing necessity for us to renew our
stock of provisions, since we had to sacrifice nearly all the
old lot."

"Very good, doctor, I shall not be long absent."

Hereupon, Kennedy took a double-barrelled fowling-piece,
and strode through the long grass toward a thicket
not far off, where the frequent sound of shooting soon let
the doctor know that the sportsman was making a good
use of his time.

Meanwhile Ferguson was engaged in calculating the
relative weight of the articles still left in the car, and in
establishing the equipoise of the second balloon. He found
that there were still left some thirty pounds of pemmican,
a supply of tea and coffee, about a gallon and a half of
brandy, and one empty water-tank. All the dried meat
had disappeared.

The doctor was aware that, by the loss of the hydrogen
in the first balloon, the ascensional force at his disposal
was now reduced to about nine hundred pounds. He
therefore had to count upon this difference in order to
rearrange his equilibrium. The new balloon measured sixty-seven
thousand cubic feet, and contained thirty-three
thousand four hundred and eighty feet of gas. The dilating
apparatus appeared to be in good condition, and neither
the battery nor the spiral had been injured.

The ascensional force of the new balloon was then
about three thousand pounds, and, in adding together the
weight of the apparatus, of the passengers, of the stock of
water, of the car and its accessories, and putting aboard
fifty gallons of water, and one hundred pounds of fresh
meat, the doctor got a total weight of twenty-eight hundred
and thirty pounds. He could then take with him one
hundred and seventy pounds of ballast, for unforeseen
emergencies, and the balloon would be in exact balance
with the surrounding atmosphere.

His arrangements were completed accordingly, and he
made up for Joe's weight with a surplus of ballast. He
spent the whole day in these preparations, and the latter
were finished when Kennedy returned. The hunter had
been successful, and brought back a regular cargo of geese,
wild-duck, snipe, teal, and plover. He went to work at
once to draw and smoke the game. Each piece, suspended
on a small, thin skewer, was hung over a fire of green
wood. When they seemed in good order, Kennedy, who
was perfectly at home in the business, packed them away
in the car.

On the morrow, the hunter was to complete his supplies.

Evening surprised our travellers in the midst of this
work. Their supper consisted of pemmican, biscuit, and
tea; and fatigue, after having given them appetite, brought
them sleep. Each of them strained eyes and ears into the
gloom during his watch, sometimes fancying that they
heard the voice of poor Joe; but, alas! the voice that
they so longed to hear, was far away.

"At the first streak of day, the doctor aroused Kennedy.

"I have been long and carefully considering what
should be done," said he, "to find our companion."

"Whatever your plan may be, doctor, it will suit me. Speak!"

"Above all things, it is important that Joe should hear
from us in some way."

"Undoubtedly. Suppose the brave fellow should take
it into his head that we have abandoned him?"

"He! He knows us too well for that. Such a thought
would never come into his mind. But he must be informed
as to where we are."

"How can that be managed?"

"We shall get into our car and be off again through
the air."

"But, should the wind bear us away?"

"Happily, it will not. See, Dick! it is carrying us
back to the lake; and this circumstance, which would
have been vexatious yesterday, is fortunate now. Our
efforts, then, will be limited to keeping ourselves above
that vast sheet of water throughout the day. Joe cannot
fail to see us, and his eyes will be constantly on the
lookout in that direction. Perhaps he will even manage to
let us know the place of his retreat."

"If he be alone and at liberty, he certainly will."

"And if a prisoner," resumed the doctor, "it not being
the practice of the natives to confine their captives, he will
see us, and comprehend the object of our researches."

"But, at last," put in Kennedy--"for we must anticipate
every thing--should we find no trace--if he should
have left no mark to follow him by, what are we to do?"

"We shall endeavor to regain the northern part of
the lake, keeping ourselves as much in sight as possible.
There we'll wait; we'll explore the banks; we'll search
the water's edge, for Joe will assuredly try to reach the
shore; and we will not leave the country without having
done every thing to find him."

"Let us set out, then!" said the hunter.

The doctor hereupon took the exact bearings of the
patch of solid land they were about to leave, and arrived
at the conclusion that it lay on the north shore of Lake
Tchad, between the village of Lari and the village of
Ingemini, both visited by Major Denham. During this
time Kennedy was completing his stock of fresh meat.
Although the neighboring marshes showed traces of the
rhinoceros, the lamantine (or manatee), and the hippopotamus,
he had no opportunity to see a single specimen of
those animals.

At seven in the morning, but not without great difficulty
--which to Joe would have been nothing--the balloon's
anchor was detached from its hold, the gas dilated,
and the new Victoria rose two hundred feet into the air.
It seemed to hesitate at first, and went spinning around,
like a top; but at last a brisk current caught it, and it
advanced over the lake, and was soon borne away at a
speed of twenty miles per hour.

The doctor continued to keep at a height of from two
hundred to five hundred feet. Kennedy frequently discharged
his rifle; and, when passing over islands, the
aeronauts approached them even imprudently, scrutinizing
the thickets, the bushes, the underbrush--in fine, every spot
where a mass of shade or jutting rock could have afforded
a retreat to their companion. They swooped down close
to the long pirogues that navigated the lake; and the
wild fishermen, terrified at the sight of the balloon, would
plunge into the water and regain their islands with every
symptom of undisguised affright.

"We can see nothing," said Kennedy, after two hours
of search.

"Let us wait a little longer, Dick, and not lose heart.
We cannot be far away from the scene of our accident."

By eleven o'clock the balloon had gone ninety miles.
It then fell in with a new current, which, blowing almost
at right angles to the other, drove them eastward about
sixty miles. It next floated over a very large and populous
island, which the doctor took to be Farram, on which
the capital of the Biddiomahs is situated. Ferguson expected
at every moment to see Joe spring up out of some
thicket, flying for his life, and calling for help. Were he
free, they could pick him up without trouble; were he a
prisoner, they could rescue him by repeating the manoeuvre
they had practised to save the missionary, and he would
soon be with his friends again; but nothing was seen, not
a sound was heard. The case seemed desperate.

About half-past two o'clock, the Victoria hove in sight
of Tangalia, a village situated on the eastern shore of
Lake Tchad, where it marks the extreme point attained
by Denham at the period of his exploration.

The doctor became uneasy at this persistent setting
of the wind in that direction, for he felt that he was being
thrown back to the eastward, toward the centre of Africa,
and the interminable deserts of that region.

"We must absolutely come to a halt," said he, "and
even alight. For Joe's sake, particularly, we ought to
go back to the lake; but, to begin with, let us endeavor
to find an opposite current."

During more than an hour he searched at different
altitudes: the balloon always came back toward the mainland.
But at length, at the height of a thousand feet, a
very violent breeze swept to the northwestward.

It was out of the question that Joe should have been
detained on one of the islands of the lake; for, in such case
he would certainly have found means to make his presence
there known. Perhaps he had been dragged to the mainland.
The doctor was reasoning thus to himself, when he
again came in sight of the northern shore of Lake Tchad.

As for supposing that Joe had been drowned, that was
not to be believed for a moment. One horrible thought
glanced across the minds of both Kennedy and the doctor:
caymans swarm in these waters! But neither one
nor the other had the courage to distinctly communicate
this impression. However, it came up to them so forcibly
at last that the doctor said, without further preface:

"Crocodiles are found only on the shores of the islands
or of the lake, and Joe will have skill enough to avoid
them. Besides, they are not very dangerous; and the
Africans bathe with impunity, and quite fearless of their
attacks."

Kennedy made no reply. He preferred keeping quiet
to discussing this terrible possibility.

The doctor made out the town of Lari about five
o'clock in the evening. The inhabitants were at work
gathering in their cotton-crop in front of their huts,
constructed of woven reeds, and standing in the midst of clean
and neatly-kept enclosures. This collection of about fifty
habitations occupied a slight depression of the soil, in a
valley extending between two low mountains. The force
of the wind carried the doctor farther onward than he
wanted to go; but it changed a second time, and bore
him back exactly to his starting-point, on the sort of
enclosed island where he had passed the preceding night.
The anchor, instead of catching the branches of the tree,
took hold in the masses of reeds mixed with the thick mud
of the marshes, which offered considerable resistance.

The doctor had much difficulty in restraining the balloon;
but at length the wind died away with the setting
in of nightfall; and the two friends kept watch together
in an almost desperate state of mind.



CHAPTER THIRTY-FOURTH.

The Hurricane.--A Forced Departure.--Loss of an Anchor.--Melancholy
Reflections.--The Resolution adopted.--The Sand-Storm.--The Buried
Caravan.--A Contrary yet Favorable Wind.--The Return southward.--Kennedy
at his Post.

At three o'clock in the morning the wind was raging.
It beat down with such violence that the Victoria could
not stay near the ground without danger. It was thrown
almost flat over upon its side, and the reeds chafed the
silk so roughly that it seemed as though they would tear it.

"We must be off, Dick," said the doctor; "we cannot
remain in this situation."

"But, doctor, what of Joe?"

"I am not likely to abandon him. No, indeed! and
should the hurricane carry me a thousand miles to the
northward, I will return! But here we are endangering
the safety of all."

"Must we go without him?" asked the Scot, with an
accent of profound grief.

"And do you think, then," rejoined Ferguson, "that
my heart does not bleed like your own? Am I not merely
obeying an imperious necessity?"

"I am entirely at your orders," replied the hunter;
"let us start!"

But their departure was surrounded with unusual difficulty.
The anchor, which had caught very deeply, resisted all
their efforts to disengage it; while the balloon,
drawing in the opposite direction, increased its tension.
Kennedy could not get it free. Besides, in his present
position, the manoeuvre had become a very perilous one,
for the Victoria threatened to break away before he should
be able to get into the car again.

The doctor, unwilling to run such a risk, made his
friend get into his place, and resigned himself to the
alternative of cutting the anchor-rope. The Victoria made
one bound of three hundred feet into the air, and took her
route directly northward.

Ferguson had no other choice than to scud before the
storm. He folded his arms, and soon became absorbed in
his own melancholy reflections.

After a few moments of profound silence, he turned to
Kennedy, who sat there no less taciturn.

"We have, perhaps, been tempting Providence," said
he; "it does not belong to man to undertake such a journey!"
--and a sigh of grief escaped him as he spoke.

"It is but a few days," replied the sportsman, "since
we were congratulating ourselves upon having escaped so
many dangers! All three of us were shaking hands!"

"Poor Joe! kindly and excellent disposition! brave
and candid heart! Dazzled for a moment by his sudden
discovery of wealth, he willingly sacrificed his treasures!
And now, he is far from us; and the wind is carrying us
still farther away with resistless speed!"

"Come, doctor, admitting that he may have found
refuge among the lake tribes, can he not do as the travellers
who visited them before us, did;--like Denham, like
Barth? Both of those men got back to their own country."

"Ah! my dear Dick! Joe doesn't know one word of
the language; he is alone, and without resources. The
travellers of whom you speak did not attempt to go forward
without sending many presents in advance of them
to the chiefs, and surrounded by an escort armed and
trained for these expeditions. Yet, they could not avoid
sufferings of the worst description! What, then, can you
expect the fate of our companion to be? It is horrible to
think of, and this is one of the worst calamities that it has
ever been my lot to endure!"

"But, we'll come back again, doctor!"

"Come back, Dick? Yes, if we have to abandon the
balloon! if we should be forced to return to Lake Tchad
on foot, and put ourselves in communication with the
Sultan of Bornou! The Arabs cannot have retained a disagreeable
remembrance of the first Europeans."

"I will follow you, doctor," replied the hunter, with
emphasis. "You may count upon me! We would rather
give up the idea of prosecuting this journey than not
return. Joe forgot himself for our sake; we will sacrifice
ourselves for his!"

This resolve revived some hope in the hearts of these
two men; they felt strong in the same inspiration. Ferguson
forthwith set every thing at work to get into a contrary
current, that might bring him back again to Lake
Tchad; but this was impracticable at that moment, and
even to alight was out of the question on ground completely
bare of trees, and with such a hurricane blowing.

The Victoria thus passed over the country of the Tibbous,
crossed the Belad el Djerid, a desert of briers that
forms the border of the Soudan, and advanced into the
desert of sand streaked with the long tracks of the many
caravans that pass and repass there. The last line of vegetation
was speedily lost in the dim southern horizon, not far
from the principal oasis in this part of Africa, whose fifty
wells are shaded by magnificent trees; but it was impossible
to stop. An Arab encampment, tents of striped
stuff, some camels, stretching out their viper-like heads
and necks along the sand, gave life to this solitude, but
the Victoria sped by like a shooting-star, and in this way
traversed a distance of sixty miles in three hours, without
Ferguson being able to check or guide her course.

"We cannot halt, we cannot alight!" said the doctor;
"not a tree, not an inequality of the ground! Are
we then to be driven clear across Sahara? Surely, Heaven
is indeed against us!"

He was uttering these words with a sort of despairing
rage, when suddenly he saw the desert sands rising aloft
in the midst of a dense cloud of dust, and go whirling
through the air, impelled by opposing currents.

Amid this tornado, an entire caravan, disorganized,
broken, and overthrown, was disappearing beneath an
avalanche of sand. The camels, flung pell-mell together,
were uttering dull and pitiful groans; cries and howls of
despair were heard issuing from that dusty and stifling
cloud, and, from time to time, a parti-colored garment cut
the chaos of the scene with its vivid hues, and the moaning
and shrieking sounded over all, a terrible accompaniment
to this spectacle of destruction.

Ere long the sand had accumulated in compact masses;
and there, where so recently stretched a level plain as far
as the eye could see, rose now a ridgy line of hillocks,
still moving from beneath--the vast tomb of an entire
caravan!

The doctor and Kennedy, pallid with emotion, sat
transfixed by this fearful spectacle. They could no longer
manage their balloon, which went whirling round and
round in contending currents, and refused to obey the
different dilations of the gas. Caught in these eddies of
the atmosphere, it spun about with a rapidity that made
their heads reel, while the car oscillated and swung to and
fro violently at the same time. The instruments suspended
under the awning clattered together as though they would
be dashed to pieces; the pipes of the spiral bent to and fro,
threatening to break at every instant; and the water-tanks
jostled and jarred with tremendous din. Although but
two feet apart, our aeronauts could not hear each other
speak, but with firmly-clinched hands they clung convulsively
to the cordage, and endeavored to steady themselves
against the fury of the tempest.

Kennedy, with his hair blown wildly about his face,
looked on without speaking; but the doctor had regained
all his daring in the midst of this deadly peril, and not a
sign of his emotion was betrayed in his countenance, even
when, after a last violent twirl, the Victoria stopped suddenly
in the midst of a most unlooked-for calm; the north
wind had abruptly got the upper hand, and now drove her
back with equal rapidity over the route she had traversed
in the morning.

"Whither are we going now?" cried Kennedy.

"Let us leave that to Providence, my dear Dick; I
was wrong in doubting it. It knows better than we, and
here we are, returning to places that we had expected
never to see again!"

The surface of the country, which had looked so flat
and level when they were coming, now seemed tossed and
uneven, like the ocean-billows after a storm; a long succession
of hillocks, that had scarcely settled to their places
yet, indented the desert; the wind blew furiously, and the
balloon fairly flew through the atmosphere.

The direction taken by our aeronauts differed somewhat
from that of the morning, and thus about nine o'clock,
instead of finding themselves again near the borders of
Lake Tchad, they saw the desert still stretching away
before them.

Kennedy remarked the circumstance.

"It matters little," replied the doctor, "the important
point is to return southward; we shall come across the
towns of Bornou, Wouddie, or Kouka, and I should not
hesitate to halt there."

"If you are satisfied, I am content," replied the Scot,
"but Heaven grant that we may not be reduced to cross
the desert, as those unfortunate Arabs had to do! What
we saw was frightful!"

"It often happens, Dick; these trips across the desert
are far more perilous than those across the ocean. The
desert has all the dangers of the sea, including the risk of
being swallowed up, and added thereto are unendurable
fatigues and privations."

"I think the wind shows some symptoms of moderating;
the sand-dust is less dense; the undulations of the
surface are diminishing, and the sky is growing clearer."

"So much the better! We must now reconnoitre attentively
with our glasses, and take care not to omit a
single point."

"I will look out for that, doctor, and not a tree shall
be seen without my informing you of it."

And, suiting the action to the word, Kennedy took his
station, spy-glass in hand, at the forward part of the car.



CHAPTER THIRTY-FIFTH.

What happened to Joe.--The Island of the Biddiomahs.--The Adoration
shown him.--The Island that sank.--The Shores of the Lake.--The Tree
of the Serpents.--The Foot-Tramp.--Terrible Suffering.--Mosquitoes
and Ants.--Hunger.--The Victoria seen.--She disappears.--The Swamp.
--One Last Despairing Cry.

What had become of Joe, while his master was thus
vainly seeking for him?

When he had dashed headlong into the lake, his first
movement on coming to the surface was to raise his eyes
and look upward. He saw the Victoria already risen far
above the water, still rapidly ascending and growing
smaller and smaller. It was soon caught in a rapid current
and disappeared to the northward. His master--both
his friends were saved!

"How lucky it was," thought he, "that I had that
idea to throw myself out into the lake! Mr. Kennedy
would soon have jumped at it, and he would not have
hesitated to do as I did, for nothing's more natural than
for one man to give himself up to save two others. That's
mathematics!"

Satisfied on this point, Joe began to think of himself.
He was in the middle of a vast lake, surrounded by tribes
unknown to him, and probably ferocious. All the greater
reason why he should get out of the scrape by depending
only on himself. And so he gave himself no farther concern
about it.

Before the attack by the birds of prey, which, according
to him, had behaved like real condors, he had noticed
an island on the horizon, and determining to reach it, if
possible, he put forth all his knowledge and skill in the art
of swimming, after having relieved himself of the most
troublesome part of his clothing. The idea of a stretch
of five or six miles by no means disconcerted him; and
therefore, so long as he was in the open lake, he thought
only of striking out straight ahead and manfully.

In about an hour and a half the distance between him
and the island had greatly diminished.

But as he approached the land, a thought, at first fleeting
and then tenacious, arose in his mind. He knew that
the shores of the lake were frequented by huge alligators,
and was well aware of the voracity of those monsters.

Now, no matter how much he was inclined to find
every thing in this world quite natural, the worthy fellow
was no little disturbed by this reflection. He feared greatly
lest white flesh like his might be particularly acceptable
to the dreaded brutes, and advanced only with extreme
precaution, his eyes on the alert on both sides and all
around him. At length, he was not more than one hundred
yards from a bank, covered with green trees, when
a puff of air strongly impregnated with a musky odor
reached him.

"There!" said he to himself, "just what I expected.
The crocodile isn't far off!"

With this he dived swiftly, but not sufficiently so to
avoid coming into contact with an enormous body, the
scaly surface of which scratched him as he passed. He
thought himself lost and swam with desperate energy.
Then he rose again to the top of the water, took breath
and dived once more. Thus passed a few minutes of unspeakable
anguish, which all his philosophy could not overcome,
for he thought, all the while, that he heard behind
him the sound of those huge jaws ready to snap him up
forever. In this state of mind he was striking out under
the water as noiselessly as possible when he felt himself
seized by the arm and then by the waist.

Poor Joe! he gave one last thought to his master; and
began to struggle with all the energy of despair, feeling
himself the while drawn along, but not toward the bottom
of the lake, as is the habit of the crocodile when about to
devour its prey, but toward the surface.

So soon as he could get breath and look around him,
he saw that he was between two natives as black as ebony,
who held him, with a firm gripe, and uttered strange cries.

"Ha!" said Joe, "blacks instead of crocodiles! Well,
I prefer it as it is; but how in the mischief dare these
fellows go in bathing in such places?"

Joe was not aware that the inhabitants of the islands
of Lake Tchad, like many other negro tribes, plunge with
impunity into sheets of water infested with crocodiles and
caymans, and without troubling their heads about them.
The amphibious denizens of this lake enjoy the well-deserved
reputation of being quite inoffensive.

But had not Joe escaped one peril only to fall into
another? That was a question which he left events to
decide; and, since he could not do otherwise, he allowed
himself to be conducted to the shore without manifesting
any alarm. 

"Evidently," thought he, "these chaps saw the Victoria
skimming the waters of the lake, like a monster of the
air. They were the distant witnesses of my tumble, and
they can't fail to have some respect for a man that fell
from the sky! Let them have their own way, then."

Joe was at this stage of his meditations, when he was
landed amid a yelling crowd of both sexes, and all ages
and sizes, but not of all colors. In fine, he was surrounded
by a tribe of Biddiomahs as black as jet. Nor had he to
blush for the scantiness of his costume, for he saw that he
was in "undress" in the highest style of that country.

But before he had time to form an exact idea of the
situation, there was no mistaking the agitation of which
he instantly became the object, and this soon enabled him
to pluck up courage, although the adventure of Kazah did
come back rather vividly to his memory.

"I foresee that they are going to make a god of me
again," thought he, "some son of the moon most likely.
Well, one trade's as good as another when a man has no
choice. The main thing is to gain time. Should the
Victoria pass this way again, I'll take advantage of my
new position to treat my worshippers here to a miracle
when I go sailing up into the sky!"

While Joe's thoughts were running thus, the throng
pressed around him. They prostrated themselves before
him; they howled; they felt him; they became even annoyingly
familiar; but at the same time they had the consideration
to offer him a superb banquet consisting of sour
milk and rice pounded in honey. The worthy fellow,
making the best of every thing, took one of the heartiest
luncheons he ever ate in his life, and gave his new adorers
an exalted idea of how the gods tuck away their food upon
grand occasions.

When evening came, the sorcerers of the island took
him respectfully by the hand, and conducted him to a sort
of house surrounded with talismans; but, as he was entering
it, Joe cast an uneasy look at the heaps of human
bones that lay scattered around this sanctuary. But he
had still more time to think about them when he found
himself at last shut up in the cabin.

During the evening and through a part of the night,
he heard festive chantings, the reverberations of a kind
of drum, and a clatter of old iron, which were very sweet,
no doubt, to African ears. Then there were howling
choruses, accompanied by endless dances by gangs of
natives who circled round and round the sacred hut with
contortions and grimaces.

Joe could catch the sound of this deafening orchestra,
through the mud and reeds of which his cabin was built;
and perhaps under other circumstances he might have been
amused by these strange ceremonies; but his mind was
soon disturbed by quite different and less agreeable reflections.
Even looking at the bright side of things, he found
it both stupid and sad to be left alone in the midst of this
savage country and among these wild tribes. Few travellers
who had penetrated to these regions had ever again
seen their native land. Moreover, could he trust to the
worship of which he saw himself the object? He had
good reason to believe in the vanity of human greatness;
and he asked himself whether, in this country, adoration
did not sometimes go to the length of eating the object
adored!

But, notwithstanding this rather perplexing prospect,
after some hours of meditation, fatigue got the better of
his gloomy thoughts, and Joe fell into a profound slumber,
which would have lasted no doubt until sunrise, had
not a very unexpected sensation of dampness awakened
the sleeper. Ere long this dampness became water, and
that water gained so rapidly that it had soon mounted
to Joe's waist.

"What can this be?" said he; "a flood! a water-spout!
or a new torture invented by these blacks? Faith, though,
I'm not going to wait here till it's up to my neck!"

And, so saying, he burst through the frail wall with
a jog of his powerful shoulder, and found himself--where?
--in the open lake! Island there was none. It had sunk
during the night. In its place, the watery immensity of
Lake Tchad!

"A poor country for the land-owners!" said Joe, once more
vigorously resorting to his skill in the art of natation.

One of those phenomena, which are by no means unusual
on Lake Tchad, had liberated our brave Joe. More than
one island, that previously seemed to have the solidity
of rock, has been submerged in this way; and the people
living along the shores of the mainland have had to
pick up the unfortunate survivors of these terrible catastrophes.

Joe knew nothing about this peculiarity of the region,
but he was none the less ready to profit by it. He caught
sight of a boat drifting about, without occupants, and was
soon aboard of it. He found it to be but the trunk of a
tree rudely hollowed out; but there were a couple of
paddles in it, and Joe, availing himself of a rapid current,
allowed his craft to float along.

"But let us see where we are," he said. "The polar-star
there, that does its work honorably in pointing out
the direction due north to everybody else, will, most likely,
do me that service."

He discovered, with satisfaction, that the current was
taking him toward the northern shore of the lake, and he
allowed himself to glide with it. About two o'clock in the
morning he disembarked upon a promontory covered with
prickly reeds, that proved very provoking and inconvenient
even to a philosopher like him; but a tree grew
there expressly to offer him a bed among its branches,
and Joe climbed up into it for greater security, and there,
without sleeping much, however, awaited the dawn of day.

When morning had come with that suddenness which
is peculiar to the equatorial regions, Joe cast a glance at
the tree which had sheltered him during the last few
hours, and beheld a sight that chilled the marrow in his
bones. The branches of the tree were literally covered
with snakes and chameleons! The foliage actually was
hidden beneath their coils, so that the beholder might
have fancied that he saw before him a new kind of tree
that bore reptiles for its leaves and fruit. And all this
horrible living mass writhed and twisted in the first rays
of the morning sun! Joe experienced a keen sensation
or terror mingled with disgust, as he looked at it, and he
leaped precipitately from the tree amid the hissings of
these new and unwelcome bedfellows.

"Now, there's something that I would never have believed!"
said he.

He was not aware that Dr. Vogel's last letters had
made known this singular feature of the shores of Lake
Tchad, where reptiles are more numerous than in any
other part of the world. But after what he had just seen,
Joe determined to be more circumspect for the future;
and, taking his bearings by the sun, he set off afoot toward
the northeast, avoiding with the utmost care cabins, huts,
hovels, and dens of every description, that might serve
in any manner as a shelter for human beings.

How often his gaze was turned upward to the sky!
He hoped to catch a glimpse, each time, of the Victoria;
and, although he looked vainly during all that long,
fatiguing day of sore foot-travel, his confident reliance on
his master remained undiminished. Great energy of character
was needed to enable him thus to sustain the situation
with philosophy. Hunger conspired with fatigue to
crush him, for a man's system is not greatly restored and
fortified by a diet of roots, the pith of plants, such as the
Mele, or the fruit of the doum palm-tree; and yet, according
to his own calculations, Joe was enabled to push on
about twenty miles to the westward.

His body bore in scores of places the marks of the
thorns with which the lake-reeds, the acacias, the mimosas,
and other wild shrubbery through which he had to force
his way, are thickly studded; and his torn and bleeding
feet rendered walking both painful and difficult. But at
length he managed to react against all these sufferings;
and when evening came again, he resolved to pass the
night on the shores of Lake Tchad.

There he had to endure the bites of myriads of insects
--gnats, mosquitoes, ants half an inch long, literally
covered the ground; and, in less than two hours, Joe had
not a rag remaining of the garments that had covered him,
the insects having devoured them! It was a terrible night,
that did not yield our exhausted traveller an hour of sleep.
During all this time the wild-boars and native buffaloes,
reenforced by the ajoub--a very dangerous species of lamantine
--carried on their ferocious revels in the bushes
and under the waters of the lake, filling the night with a
hideous concert. Joe dared scarcely breathe. Even his
courage and coolness had hard work to bear up against so
terrible a situation.

At length, day came again, and Joe sprang to his feet
precipitately; but judge of the loathing he felt when he
saw what species of creature had shared his couch--a
toad!--but a toad five inches in length, a monstrous,
repulsive specimen of vermin that sat there staring at him
with huge round eyes. Joe felt his stomach revolt at the
sight, and, regaining a little strength from the intensity
of his repugnance, he rushed at the top of his speed and
plunged into the lake. This sudden bath somewhat allayed
the pangs of the itching that tortured his whole body;
and, chewing a few leaves, he set forth resolutely, again
feeling an obstinate resolution in the act, for which he
could hardly account even to his own mind. He no longer
seemed to have entire control of his own acts, and, nevertheless,
he felt within him a strength superior to despair.

However, he began now to suffer terribly from hunger.
His stomach, less resigned than he was, rebelled, and he was
obliged to fasten a tendril of wild-vine tightly about his
waist. Fortunately, he could quench his thirst at any
moment, and, in recalling the sufferings he had undergone
in the desert, he experienced comparative relief in his exemption
from that other distressing want.

"What can have become of the Victoria?" he wondered.
"The wind blows from the north, and she should be
carried back by it toward the lake. No doubt the doctor
has gone to work to right her balance, but yesterday
would have given him time enough for that, so that may
be to-day--but I must act just as if I was never to see
him again. After all, if I only get to one of the large
towns on the lake, I'll find myself no worse off than the
travellers my master used to talk about. Why shouldn't
I work my way out of the scrape as well as they did?
Some of them got back home again. Come, then! the
deuce! Cheer up, my boy!"

Thus talking to himself and walking on rapidly, Joe
came right upon a horde of natives in the very depths of
the forest, but he halted in time and was not seen by them.
The negroes were busy poisoning arrows with the juice of
the euphorbium--a piece of work deemed a great affair
among these savage tribes, and carried on with a sort of
ceremonial solemnity.

Joe, entirely motionless and even holding his breath,
was keeping himself concealed in a thicket, when, happening
to raise his eyes, he saw through an opening in the
foliage the welcome apparition of the balloon--the Victoria
herself--moving toward the lake, at a height of only
about one hundred feet above him. But he could not
make himself heard; he dared not, could not make his
friends even see him!

Tears came to his eyes, not of grief but of thankfulness;
his master was then seeking him; his master had
not left him to perish! He would have to wait for the
departure of the blacks; then he could quit his hiding-place
and run toward the borders of Lake Tchad!

But by this time the Victoria was disappearing in the
distant sky. Joe still determined to wait for her; she
would come back again, undoubtedly. She did, indeed,
return, but farther to the eastward. Joe ran, gesticulated,
shouted--but all in vain! A strong breeze was sweeping
the balloon away with a speed that deprived him of all
hope.

For the first time, energy and confidence abandoned
the heart of the unfortunate man. He saw that he was
lost. He thought his master gone beyond all prospect of
return. He dared no longer think; he would no longer
reflect!

Like a crazy man, his feet bleeding, his body cut and
torn, he walked on during all that day and a part of the
next night. He even dragged himself along, sometimes
on his knees, sometimes with his hands. He saw the moment
nigh when all his strength would fail, and nothing would
be left to him but to sink upon the ground and die.

Thus working his way along, he at length found himself
close to a marsh, or what he knew would soon become
a marsh, for night had set in some hours before, and he fell
by a sudden misstep into a thick, clinging mire. In spite
of all his efforts, in spite of his desperate struggles, he felt
himself sinking gradually in the swampy ooze, and in a
few minutes he was buried to his waist.

"Here, then, at last, is death!" he thought, in agony,
"and what a death!"

He now began to struggle again, like a madman; but
his efforts only served to bury him deeper in the tomb
that the poor doomed lad was hollowing for himself; not
a log of wood or a branch to buoy him up; not a reed to
which he might cling! He felt that all was over! His
eyes convulsively closed!

"Master! master!--Help!" were his last words; but
his voice, despairing, unaided, half stifled already by the
rising mire, died away feebly on the night.



CHAPTER THIRTY-SIXTH.

A Throng of People on the Horizon.--A Troop of Arabs.--The Pursuit.
--It is He.--Fall from Horseback.--The Strangled Arab.--A Ball from
Kennedy.--Adroit Manoeuvres.--Caught up flying.--Joe saved at last.

From the moment when Kennedy resumed his post of
observation in the front of the car, he had not ceased to
watch the horizon with his utmost attention.

After the lapse of some time he turned toward the
doctor and said:

"If I am not greatly mistaken I can see, off yonder in
the distance, a throng of men or animals moving. It is impossible
to make them out yet, but I observe that they are in violent
motion, for they are raising a great cloud of dust."

"May it not be another contrary breeze?" said the
doctor, "another whirlwind coming to drive us back northward
again?" and while speaking he stood up to examine
the horizon.

"I think not, Samuel; it is a troop of gazelles or of
wild oxen."

"Perhaps so, Dick; but yon throng is some nine or
ten miles from us at least, and on my part, even with the
glass, I can make nothing of it!"

"At all events I shall not lose sight of it. There is
something remarkable about it that excites my curiosity.
Sometimes it looks like a body of cavalry manoeuvring.
Ah! I was not mistaken. It is, indeed, a squadron of
horsemen. Look--look there!"

The doctor eyed the group with great attention, and,
after a moment's pause, remarked:

"I believe that you are right. It is a detachment of
Arabs or Tibbous, and they are galloping in the same
direction with us, as though in flight, but we are going
faster than they, and we are rapidly gaining on them. In
half an hour we shall be near enough to see them and know
what they are."

Kennedy had again lifted his glass and was attentively
scrutinizing them. Meanwhile the crowd of horsemen was
becoming more distinctly visible, and a few were seen to
detach themselves from the main body.

"It is some hunting manoeuvre, evidently," said Kennedy.
"Those fellows seem to be in pursuit of something.
I would like to know what they are about."

"Patience, Dick! In a little while we shall overtake
them, if they continue on the same route. We are going
at the rate of twenty miles per hour, and no horse can
keep up with that."

Kennedy again raised his glass, and a few minutes
later he exclaimed:

"They are Arabs, galloping at the top of their speed;
I can make them out distinctly. They are about fifty in
number. I can see their bournouses puffed out by the wind.
It is some cavalry exercise that they are going through.
Their chief is a hundred paces ahead of them and they
are rushing after him at headlong speed."

"Whoever they may be, Dick, they are not to be
feared, and then, if necessary, we can go higher."

"Wait, doctor--wait a little!"

"It's curious," said Kennedy again, after a brief pause,
"but there's something going on that I can't exactly explain.
By the efforts they make, and the irregularity of
their line, I should fancy that those Arabs are pursuing
some one, instead of following."

"Are you certain of that, Dick?"

"Oh! yes, it's clear enough now. I am right! It is a
pursuit--a hunt--but a man-hunt! That is not their chief
riding ahead of them, but a fugitive."

"A fugitive!" exclaimed the doctor, growing more
and more interested.

"Yes!"

"Don't lose sight of him, and let us wait!"

Three or four miles more were quickly gained upon
these horsemen, who nevertheless were dashing onward
with incredible speed.

"Doctor! doctor!" shouted Kennedy in an agitated
voice.

"What is the matter, Dick?"

"Is it an illusion? Can it be possible?"

"What do you mean?"

"Wait!" and so saying, the Scot wiped the sights of
his spy-glass carefully, and looked through it again intently.

"Well?" questioned the doctor.

"It is he, doctor!"

"He!" exclaimed Ferguson with emotion.

"It is he! no other!" and it was needless to pronounce
the name.

"Yes! it is he! on horseback, and only a hundred
paces in advance of his enemies! He is pursued!"

"It is Joe--Joe himself!" cried the doctor, turning pale.

"He cannot see us in his flight!"

"He will see us, though!" said the doctor, lowering
the flame of his blow-pipe.

"But how?"

"In five minutes we shall be within fifty feet of the
ground, and in fifteen we shall be right over him!"

"We must let him know it by firing a gun!"

"No! he can't turn back to come this way. He's
headed off!"

"What shall we do, then?"

"We must wait."

"Wait?--and these Arabs!"

"We shall overtake them. We'll pass them. We are
not more than two miles from them, and provided that
Joe's horse holds out!"

"Great God!" exclaimed Kennedy, suddenly.

"What is the matter?"

Kennedy had uttered a cry of despair as he saw Joe
fling himself to the ground. His horse, evidently
exhausted, had just fallen headlong.

"He sees us!" cried the doctor, "and he motions to
us, as he gets upon his feet!"

"But the Arabs will overtake him! What is he
waiting for? Ah! the brave lad! Huzza!" shouted the
sportsman, who could no longer restrain his feelings.

Joe, who had immediately sprung up after his fall, just
as one of the swiftest horsemen rushed upon him, bounded
like a panther, avoided his assailant by leaping to one
side, jumped up behind him on the crupper, seized the
Arab by the throat, and, strangling him with his sinewy
hands and fingers of steel, flung him on the sand, and
continued his headlong flight.

A tremendous howl was heard from the Arabs, but,
completely engrossed by the pursuit, they had not taken
notice of the balloon, which was now but five hundred
paces behind them, and only about thirty feet from the
ground. On their part, they were not twenty lengths of
their horses from the fugitive.

One of them was very perceptibly gaining on Joe, and
was about to pierce him with his lance, when Kennedy,
with fixed eye and steady hand, stopped him short with a
ball, that hurled him to the earth.

Joe did not even turn his head at the report. Some
of the horsemen reined in their barbs, and fell on their
faces in the dust as they caught sight of the Victoria;
the rest continued their pursuit.

"But what is Joe about?" said Kennedy; "he don't stop!"

"He's doing better than that, Dick! I understand him!
He's keeping on in the same direction as the balloon. He
relies upon our intelligence. Ah! the noble fellow! We'll
carry him off in the very teeth of those Arab rascals! We
are not more than two hundred paces from him!"

"What are we to do?" asked Kennedy.

"Lay aside your rifle,Dick."

And the Scot obeyed the request at once.

"Do you think that you can hold one hundred and fifty
pounds of ballast in your arms?"

"Ay, more than that!"

"No! That will be enough!"

And the doctor proceeded to pile up bags of sand in
Kennedy's arms.

"Hold yourself in readiness in the back part of the car,
and be prepared to throw out that ballast at a single effort.
But, for your life, don't do so until I give the word!"

"Be easy on that point."

"Otherwise, we should miss Joe, and he would be lost."

"Count upon me!"

The Victoria at that moment almost commanded the
troop of horsemen who were still desperately urging their
steeds at Joe's heels. The doctor, standing in the front
of the car, held the ladder clear, ready to throw it at any
moment. Meanwhile, Joe had still maintained the distance
between himself and his pursuers--say about fifty feet.
The Victoria was now ahead of the party.

"Attention!" exclaimed the doctor to Kennedy.

"I'm ready!"

"Joe, look out for yourself!" shouted the doctor in his
sonorous, ringing voice, as he flung out the ladder, the
lowest ratlines of which tossed up the dust of the road.

As the doctor shouted, Joe had turned his head, but
without checking his horse. The ladder dropped close to
him, and at the instant he grasped it the doctor again
shouted to Kennedy:

"Throw ballast!"

"It's done!"

And the Victoria, lightened by a weight greater than
Joe's, shot up one hundred and fifty feet into the air.

Joe clung with all his strength to the ladder during
the wide oscillations that it had to describe, and then
making an indescribable gesture to the Arabs, and climbing
with the agility of a monkey, he sprang up to his companions,
who received him with open arms.

The Arabs uttered a scream of astonishment and rage.
The fugitive had been snatched from them on the wing,
and the Victoria was rapidly speeding far beyond
their reach.

"Master! Kennedy!" ejaculated Joe, and overwhelmed,
at last, with fatigue and emotion, the poor fellow
fainted away, while Kennedy, almost beside himself,
kept exclaiming:

"Saved--saved!"

"Saved indeed!" murmured the doctor, who had recovered
all his phlegmatic coolness.

Joe was almost naked. His bleeding arms, his body
covered with cuts and bruises, told what his sufferings had
been. The doctor quietly dressed his wounds, and laid
him comfortably under the awning.

Joe soon returned to consciousness, and asked for a
glass of brandy, which the doctor did not see fit to refuse,
as the faithful fellow had to be indulged.

After he had swallowed the stimulant, Joe grasped the
hands of his two friends and announced that he was ready
to relate what had happened to him.

But they would not allow him to talk at that time, and
he sank back into a profound sleep, of which he seemed to
have the greatest possible need.

The Victoria was then taking an oblique line to the
westward. Driven by a tempestuous wind, it again approached
the borders of the thorny desert, which the travellers
descried over the tops of palm-trees, bent and broken
by the storm; and, after having made a run of two hundred
miles since rescuing Joe, it passed the tenth degree
of east longitude about nightfall.



CHAPTER THIRTY-SEVENTH.

The Western Route.--Joe wakes up.--His Obstinacy.--End of Joe's
Narrative.--Tagelei.--Kennedy's Anxieties.--The Route to the
North.--A Night near Aghades.

During the night the wind lulled as though reposing
after the boisterousness of the day, and the Victoria remained
quietly at the top of the tall sycamore. The doctor
and Kennedy kept watch by turns, and Joe availed himself
of the chance to sleep most sturdily for twenty-four
hours at a stretch.

"That's the remedy he needs," said Dr. Ferguson.
"Nature will take charge of his care."

With the dawn the wind sprang up again in quite
strong, and moreover capricious gusts. It shifted abruptly
from south to north, but finally the Victoria was carried
away by it toward the west.

The doctor, map in hand, recognized the kingdom of
Damerghou, an undulating region of great fertility, in
which the huts that compose the villages are constructed
of long reeds interwoven with branches of the asclepia.
The grain-mills were seen raised in the cultivated fields,
upon small scaffoldings or platforms, to keep them out of
the reach of the mice and the huge ants of that country.

They soon passed the town of Zinder, recognized by
its spacious place of execution, in the centre of which
stands the "tree of death." At its foot the executioner
stands waiting, and whoever passes beneath its shadow is
immediately hung!

Upon consulting his compass, Kennedy could not refrain
from saying:

"Look! we are again moving northward."

"No matter; if it only takes us to Timbuctoo, we shall
not complain. Never was a finer voyage accomplished
under better circumstances!"

"Nor in better health," said Joe, at that instant thrusting
his jolly countenance from between the curtains of the
awning.

"There he is! there's our gallant friend--our preserver!"
exclaimed Kennedy, cordially.--"How goes it, Joe?"

"Oh! why, naturally enough, Mr. Kennedy, very naturally!
I never felt better in my life! Nothing sets a
man up like a little pleasure-trip with a bath in Lake
Tchad to start on--eh, doctor?"

"Brave fellow!" said Ferguson, pressing Joe's hand,
"what terrible anxiety you caused us!"

"Humph! and you, sir? Do you think that I felt
easy in my mind about you, gentlemen? You gave me
a fine fright, let me tell you!"

"We shall never agree in the world, Joe, if you take
things in that style."

"I see that his tumble hasn't changed him a bit,"
added Kennedy.

"Your devotion and self-forgetfulness were sublime,
my brave lad, and they saved us, for the Victoria was falling
into the lake, and, once there, nobody could have extricated her."

"But, if my devotion, as you are pleased to call my
summerset, saved you, did it not save me too, for here we
are, all three of us, in first-rate health? Consequently we
have nothing to squabble about in the whole affair."

"Oh! we can never come to a settlement with that
youth," said the sportsman.

"The best way to settle it," replied Joe, "is to say
nothing more about the matter. What's done is done.
Good or bad, we can't take it back."

"You obstinate fellow!" said the doctor, laughing;
"you can't refuse, though, to tell us your adventures, at
all events."

"Not if you think it worth while. But, in the first
place, I'm going to cook this fat goose to a turn, for I see
that Mr. Kennedy has not wasted his time."

"All right, Joe!"

"Well, let us see then how this African game will sit
on a European stomach!"

The goose was soon roasted by the flame of the blow-pipe,
and not long afterward was comfortably stowed
away. Joe took his own good share, like a man who had
eaten nothing for several days. After the tea and the
punch, he acquainted his friends with his recent adventures.
He spoke with some emotion, even while looking
at things with his usual philosophy. The doctor could not
refrain from frequently pressing his hand when he saw his
worthy servant more considerate of his master's safety
than of his own, and, in relation to the sinking of the island
of the Biddiomahs, he explained to him the frequency of
this phenomenon upon Lake Tchad.

At length Joe, continuing his recital, arrived at the
point where, sinking in the swamp, he had uttered a last
cry of despair.

"I thought I was gone," said he, "and as you came
right into my mind, I made a hard fight for it. How, I
couldn't tell you--but I'd made up my mind that I wouldn't
go under without knowing why. Just then, I saw--two or
three feet from me--what do you think? the end of a rope
that had been fresh cut; so I took leave to make another
jerk, and, by hook or by crook, I got to the rope. When
I pulled, it didn't give; so I pulled again and hauled away
and there I was on dry ground! At the end of the rope,
I found an anchor! Ah, master, I've a right to call that
the anchor of safety, anyhow, if you have no objection. I
knew it again! It was the anchor of the Victoria! You
had grounded there! So I followed the direction of the
rope and that gave me your direction, and, after trying
hard a few times more, I got out of the swamp. I had
got my strength back with my spunk, and I walked on
part of the night away from the lake, until I got to the
edge of a very big wood. There I saw a fenced-in place,
where some horses were grazing, without thinking of any
harm. Now, there are times when everybody knows how
to ride a horse, are there not, doctor? So I didn't spend
much time thinking about it, but jumped right on the back
of one of those innocent animals and away we went galloping
north as fast as our legs could carry us. I needn't
tell you about the towns that I didn't see nor the villages
that I took good care to go around. No! I crossed the
ploughed fields; I leaped the hedges; I scrambled over
the fences; I dug my heels into my nag; I thrashed him;
I fairly lifted the poor fellow off his feet! At last I got to
the end of the tilled land. Good! There was the desert.
'That suits me!' said I, 'for I can see better ahead of me
and farther too.' I was hoping all the time to see the balloon
tacking about and waiting for me. But not a bit of
it; and so, in about three hours, I go plump, like a fool,
into a camp of Arabs! Whew! what a hunt that was!
You see, Mr. Kennedy, a hunter don't know what a real
hunt is until he's been hunted himself! Still I advise him
not to try it if he can keep out of it! My horse was so
tired, he was ready to drop off his legs; they were close
on me; I threw myself to the ground; then I jumped up
again behind an Arab! I didn't mean the fellow any harm,
and I hope he has no grudge against me for choking him,
but I saw you--and you know the rest. The Victoria
came on at my heels, and you caught me up flying, as a
circus-rider does a ring. Wasn't I right in counting on
you? Now, doctor, you see how simple all that was!
Nothing more natural in the world! I'm ready to begin
over again, if it would be of any service to you. And
besides, master, as I said a while ago, it's not worth
mentioning."

"My noble, gallant Joe!" said the doctor, with great
feeling. "Heart of gold! we were not astray in trusting
to your intelligence and skill."

"Poh! doctor, one has only just to follow things along
as they happen, and he can always work his way out of
a scrape! The safest plan, you see, is to take matters as
they come."

While Joe was telling his experience, the balloon had
rapidly passed over a long reach of country, and Kennedy
soon pointed out on the horizon a collection of structures
that looked like a town. The doctor glanced at his map
and recognized the place as the large village of Tagelei,
in the Damerghou country.

"Here," said he, "we come upon Dr. Barth's route.
It was at this place that he parted from his companions,
Richardson and Overweg; the first was to follow the Zinder
route, and the second that of Maradi; and you may
remember that, of these three travellers, Barth was the
only one who ever returned to Europe."

"Then," said Kennedy, following out on the map the
direction of the Victoria, "we are going due north."

"Due north, Dick."

"And don't that give you a little uneasiness?"

"Why should it?"

"Because that line leads to Tripoli, and over the Great
Desert."

"Oh, we shall not go so far as that, my friend--at
least, I hope not."

"But where do you expect to halt?"

"Come, Dick, don't you feel some curiosity to see
Timbuctoo?"

"Timbuctoo?"

"Certainly," said Joe; "nobody nowadays can think
of making the trip to Africa without going to see
Timbuctoo."

"You will be only the fifth or sixth European who has
ever set eyes on that mysterious city."

"Ho, then, for Timbuctoo!"

"Well, then, let us try to get as far as between the
seventeenth and eighteenth degrees of north latitude, and
there we will seek a favorable wind to carry us westward."

"Good!" said the hunter. "But have we still far to
go to the northward?"

"One hundred and fifty miles at least."

"In that case," said Kennedy, "I'll turn in and sleep
a bit."

"Sleep, sir; sleep!" urged Joe. "And you, doctor, do
the same yourself: you must have need of rest, for I made
you keep watch a little out of time."

The sportsman stretched himself under the awning;
but Ferguson, who was not easily conquered by fatigue,
remained at his post.

In about three hours the Victoria was crossing with
extreme rapidity an expanse of stony country, with ranges
of lofty, naked mountains of granitic formation at the
base. A few isolated peaks attained the height of even
four thousand feet. Giraffes, antelopes, and ostriches were
seen running and bounding with marvellous agility in the
midst of forests of acacias, mimosas, souahs, and date-trees.
After the barrenness of the desert, vegetation was
now resuming its empire. This was the country of the
Kailouas, who veil their faces with a bandage of cotton,
like their dangerous neighbors, the Touaregs.

At ten o'clock in the evening, after a splendid trip of
two hundred and fifty miles, the Victoria halted over an
important town. The moonlight revealed glimpses of one
district half in ruins; and some pinnacles of mosques and
minarets shot up here and there, glistening in the silvery
rays. The doctor took a stellar observation, and discovered
that he was in the latitude of Aghades.

This city, once the seat of an immense trade, was already
falling into ruin when Dr. Barth visited it.

The Victoria, not being seen in the obscurity of night,
descended about two miles above Aghades, in a field of
millet. The night was calm, and began to break into
dawn about three o'clock A.M.; while a light wind coaxed
the balloon westward, and even a little toward the south.

Dr. Ferguson hastened to avail himself of such good
fortune, and rapidly ascending resumed his aerial journey
amid a long wake of golden morning sunshine.



CHAPTER THIRTY-EIGHTH.

A Rapid Passage.--Prudent Resolves.--Caravans in Sight.--Incessant Rains.--
Goa.--The Niger.--Golberry, Geoffroy, and Gray.--Mungo Park.--Laing.--
Rene Caillie.--Clapperton.--John and Richard Lander.

The 17th of May passed tranquilly, without any remarkable
incident; the desert gained upon them once more; a moderate
wind bore the Victoria toward the southwest, and she never
swerved to the right or to the left, but her shadow traced
a perfectly straight line on the sand.

Before starting, the doctor had prudently renewed his
stock of water, having feared that he should not be able to
touch ground in these regions, infested as they are by the
Aouelim-Minian Touaregs. The plateau, at an elevation
of eighteen hundred feet above the level of the sea, sloped
down toward the south. Our travellers, having crossed
the Aghades route at Murzouk--a route often pressed by
the feet of camels--arrived that evening, in the sixteenth
degree of north latitude, and four degrees fifty-five minutes
east longitude, after having passed over one hundred
and eighty miles of a long and monotonous day's journey.

During the day Joe dressed the last pieces of game,
which had been only hastily prepared, and he served up
for supper a mess of snipe, that were greatly relished.
The wind continuing good, the doctor resolved to keep on
during the night, the moon, still nearly at the full,
illumining it with her radiance. The Victoria ascended to a
height of five hundred feet, and, during her nocturnal trip
of about sixty miles, the gentle slumbers of an infant
would not have been disturbed by her motion.

On Sunday morning, the direction of the wind again
changed, and it bore to the northwestward. A few crows
were seen sweeping through the air, and, off on the
horizon, a flock of vultures which, fortunately,
however, kept at a distance.

The sight of these birds led Joe to compliment his
master on the idea of having two balloons.

"Where would we be," said he, "with only one balloon?
The second balloon is like the life-boat to a ship;
in case of wreck we could always take to it and escape."

"You are right, friend Joe," said the doctor, "only
that my life-boat gives me some uneasiness. It is not so
good as the main craft."

"What do you mean by that, doctor?" asked Kennedy.

"I mean to say that the new Victoria is not so good as
the old one. Whether it be that the stuff it is made of is
too much worn, or that the heat of the spiral has melted
the gutta-percha, I can observe a certain loss of gas. It
don't amount to much thus far, but still it is noticeable.
We have a tendency to sink, and, in order to keep our
elevation, I am compelled to give greater dilation to the
hydrogen."

"The deuce!" exclaimed Kennedy with concern; "I
see no remedy for that."

"There is none, Dick, and that is why we must hasten
our progress, and even avoid night halts."

"Are we still far from the coast?" asked Joe.

"Which coast, my boy? How are we to know whither chance
will carry us? All that I can say is, that Timbuctoo is
still about four hundred miles to the westward.

"And how long will it take us to get there?"

"Should the wind not carry us too far out of the way,
I hope to reach that city by Tuesday evening."

"Then," remarked Joe, pointing to a long file of animals
and men winding across the open desert, "we shall
arrive there sooner than that caravan."

Ferguson and Kennedy leaned over and saw an immense
cavalcade. There were at least one hundred and
fifty camels of the kind that, for twelve mutkals of gold,
or about twenty-five dollars, go from Timbuctoo to Tafilet
with a load of five hundred pounds upon their backs. Each
animal had dangling to its tail a bag to receive its excrement,
the only fuel on which the caravans can depend when
crossing the desert.

These Touareg camels are of the very best race. They
can go from three to seven days without drinking, and for
two without eating. Their speed surpasses that of the
horse, and they obey with intelligence the voice of the
khabir, or guide of the caravan. They are known in the
country under the name of mehari.

Such were the details given by the doctor while his
companions continued to gaze upon that multitude of men,
women, and children, advancing on foot and with difficulty
over a waste of sand half in motion, and scarcely kept in
its place by scanty nettles, withered grass, and stunted
bushes that grew upon it. The wind obliterated the marks
of their feet almost instantly.

Joe inquired how the Arabs managed to guide themselves
across the desert, and come to the few wells scattered
far between throughout this vast solitude.

"The Arabs," replied Dr. Ferguson, "are endowed
by nature with a wonderful instinct in finding their way.
Where a European would be at a loss, they never hesitate
for a moment. An insignificant fragment of rock, a pebble,
a tuft of grass, a different shade of color in the sand,
suffice to guide them with accuracy. During the night
they go by the polar star. They never travel more than
two miles per hour, and always rest during the noonday
heat. You may judge from that how long it takes them
to cross Sahara, a desert more than nine hundred miles in
breadth."

But the Victoria had already disappeared from the
astonished gaze of the Arabs, who must have envied her
rapidity. That evening she passed two degrees twenty
minutes east longitude, and during the night left another
degree behind her.

On Monday the weather changed completely. Rain
began to fall with extreme violence, and not only had the
balloon to resist the power of this deluge, but also the
increase of weight which it caused by wetting the whole
machine, car and all. This continuous shower accounted
for the swamps and marshes that formed the sole surface
of the country. Vegetation reappeared, however, along
with the mimosas, the baobabs, and the tamarind-trees.

Such was the Sonray country, with its villages topped
with roofs turned over like Armenian caps. There were
few mountains, and only such hills as were enough to form
the ravines and pools where the pintadoes and snipes went
sailing and diving through. Here and there, an impetuous
torrent cut the roads, and had to be crossed by the
natives on long vines stretched from tree to tree. The
forests gave place to jungles, which alligators, hippopotami,
and the rhinoceros, made their haunts.

"It will not be long before we see the Niger," said the
doctor. "The face of the country always changes in the
vicinity of large rivers. These moving highways, as they
are sometimes correctly called, have first brought vegetation
with them, as they will at last bring civilization.
Thus, in its course of twenty-five hundred miles, the Niger
has scattered along its banks the most important cities of
Africa."

"By-the-way," put in Joe, "that reminds me of what
was said by an admirer of the goodness of Providence, who
praised the foresight with which it had generally caused
rivers to flow close to large cities!"

At noon the Victoria was passing over a petty town,
a mere assemblage of miserable huts, which once was Goa,
a great capital.

"It was there," said the doctor, "that Barth crossed
the Niger, on his return from Timbuctoo. This is the
river so famous in antiquity, the rival of the Nile, to which
pagan superstition ascribed a celestial origin. Like the
Nile, it has engaged the attention of geographers in all
ages; and like it, also, its exploration has cost the lives
of many victims; yes, even more of them than perished
on account of the other."

The Niger flowed broadly between its banks, and its
waters rolled southward with some violence of current;
but our travellers, borne swiftly by as they were, could
scarcely catch a glimpse of its curious outline.

"I wanted to talk to you about this river," said Dr.
Ferguson, "and it is already far from us. Under the
names of Dhiouleba, Mayo, Egghirreou, Quorra, and other
titles besides, it traverses an immense extent of country,
and almost competes in length with the Nile. These
appellations signify simply 'the River,' according to the
dialects of the countries through which it passes."

"Did Dr. Barth follow this route?" asked Kennedy.

"No, Dick: in quitting Lake Tchad, he passed through
the different towns of Bornou, and intersected the Niger
at Say, four degrees below Goa; then he penetrated to the
bosom of those unexplored countries which the Niger
embraces in its elbow; and, after eight months of fresh
fatigues, he arrived at Timbuctoo; all of which we may
do in about three days with as swift a wind as this."

"Have the sources of the Niger been discovered?"
asked Joe.

"Long since," replied the doctor. "The exploration
of the Niger and its tributaries was the object of several
expeditions, the principal of which I shall mention: Between
1749 and 1758, Adamson made a reconnoissance of
the river, and visited Gorea; from 1785 to 1788, Golberry
and Geoffroy travelled across the deserts of Senegambia,
and ascended as far as the country of the Moors, who
assassinated Saugnier, Brisson, Adam, Riley, Cochelet,
and so many other unfortunate men. Then came the illustrious
Mungo Park, the friend of Sir Walter Scott, and,
like him, a Scotchman by birth. Sent out in 1795 by the
African Society of London, he got as far as Bambarra,
saw the Niger, travelled five hundred miles with a slave-merchant,
reconnoitred the Gambia River, and returned
to England in 1797. He again set out, on the 30th of
January, 1805, with his brother-in-law Anderson, Scott,
the designer, and a gang of workmen; he reached Gorea,
there added a detachment of thirty-five soldiers to his
party, and saw the Niger again on the 19th of August.
But, by that time, in consequence of fatigue, privations,
ill-usage, the inclemencies of the weather, and the
unhealthiness of the country, only eleven persons remained
alive of the forty Europeans in the party. On the 16th
of November, the last letters from Mungo Park reached
his wife; and, a year later a trader from that country
gave information that, having got as far as Boussa, on the
Niger, on the 23d of December, the unfortunate traveller's
boat was upset by the cataracts in that part of the river,
and he was murdered by the natives."

"And his dreadful fate did not check the efforts of
others to explore that river?"

"On the contrary, Dick. Since then, there were two
objects in view: namely, to recover the lost man's papers,
as well as to pursue the exploration. In 1816, an expedition
was organized, in which Major Grey took part. It arrived
in Senegal, penetrated to the Fonta-Jallon, visited
the Foullah and Mandingo populations, and returned to
England without further results. In 1822, Major Laing
explored all the western part of Africa near to the British
possessions; and he it was who got so far as the sources
of the Niger; and, according to his documents, the spring
in which that immense river takes its rise is not two feet
broad.

"Easy to jump over," said Joe.

"How's that? Easy you think, eh?" retorted the doctor.
"If we are to believe tradition, whoever attempts
to pass that spring, by leaping over it, is immediately
swallowed up; and whoever tries to draw water from it,
feels himself repulsed by an invisible hand."

"I suppose a man has a right not to believe a word
of that!" persisted Joe.

"Oh, by all means!--Five years later, it was Major
Laing's destiny to force his way across the desert of
Sahara, penetrate to Timbuctoo, and perish a few miles
above it, by strangling, at the hands of the Ouelad-shiman,
who wanted to compel him to turn Mussulman."

"Still another victim!" said the sportsman.

"It was then that a brave young man, with his own
feeble resources, undertook and accomplished the most
astonishing of modern journeys--I mean the Frenchman
Rene Caillie, who, after sundry attempts in 1819 and 1824,
set out again on the 19th of April, 1827, from Rio Nunez.
On the 3d of August he arrived at Time, so thoroughly
exhausted and ill that he could not resume his journey
until six months later, in January, 1828. He then joined
a caravan, and, protected by his Oriental dress, reached
the Niger on the 10th of March, penetrated to the city
of Jenne, embarked on the river, and descended it, as far
as Timbuctoo, where he arrived on the 30th of April. In
1760, another Frenchman, Imbert by name, and, in 1810, an
Englishman, Robert Adams, had seen this curious place;
but Rene Caillie was to be the first European who could
bring back any authentic data concerning it. On the 4th
of May he quitted this 'Queen of the desert;' on the 9th,
he surveyed the very spot where Major Laing had been
murdered; on the 19th, he arrived at El-Arouan, and left
that commercial town to brave a thousand dangers in
crossing the vast solitudes comprised between the Soudan
and the northern regions of Africa. At length he entered
Tangiers, and on the 28th of September sailed for Toulon.
In nineteen months, notwithstanding one hundred and
eighty days' sickness, he had traversed Africa from west
to north. Ah! had Callie been born in England, he
would have been honored as the most intrepid traveller
of modern times, as was the case with Mungo Park. But
in France he was not appreciated according to his worth."

"He was a sturdy fellow!" said Kennedy, "but what
became of him?"

"He died at the age of thirty-nine, from the consequences
of his long fatigues. They thought they had done enough
in decreeing him the prize of the Geographical Society
in 1828; the highest honors would have been paid to him
in England.

"While he was accomplishing this remarkable journey,
an Englishman had conceived a similar enterprise and
was trying to push it through with equal courage, if not
with equal good fortune. This was Captain Clapperton,
the companion of Denham. In 1829 he reentered Africa
by the western coast of the Gulf of Benin; he then followed
in the track of Mungo Park and of Laing, recovered
at Boussa the documents relative to the death of the former,
and arrived on the 20th of August at Sackatoo, where
he was seized and held as a prisoner, until he expired in the
arms of his faithful attendant Richard Lander."

"And what became of this Lander?" asked Joe, deeply interested.

"He succeeded in regaining the coast and returned to
London, bringing with him the captain's papers, and an
exact narrative of his own journey. He then offered his
services to the government to complete the reconnoissance
of the Niger. He took with him his brother John, the
second child of a poor couple in Cornwall, and, together,
these men, between 1829 and 1831, redescended the river
from Boussa to its mouth, describing it village by village,
mile by mile."

"So both the brothers escaped the common fate?"
queried Kennedy.

"Yes, on this expedition, at least; but in 1833 Richard
undertook a third trip to the Niger, and perished by a
bullet, near the mouth of the river. You see, then, my
friends, that the country over which we are now passing
has witnessed some noble instances of self-sacrifice which,
unfortunately, have only too often had death for their reward."




CHAPTER THIRTY-NINTH.

The Country in the Elbow of the Niger.--A Fantastic View of the
Hombori Mountains.--Kabra.--Timbuctoo.--The Chart of Dr. Barth.
--A Decaying City.--Whither Heaven wills.

During this dull Monday, Dr. Ferguson diverted his
thoughts by giving his companions a thousand details
concerning the country they were crossing. The surface,
which was quite flat, offered no impediment to their progress.
The doctor's sole anxiety arose from the obstinate
northeast wind which continued to blow furiously, and bore
them away from the latitude of Timbuctoo.

The Niger, after running northward as far as that city,
sweeps around, like an immense water-jet from some fountain,
and falls into the Atlantic in a broad sheaf. In the
elbow thus formed the country is of varied character,
sometimes luxuriantly fertile, and sometimes extremely
bare; fields of maize succeeded by wide spaces covered
with broom-corn and uncultivated plains. All kinds of
aquatic birds--pelicans, wild-duck, kingfishers, and the
rest--were seen in numerous flocks hovering about the
borders of the pools and torrents.

From time to time there appeared an encampment of
Touaregs, the men sheltered under their leather tents,
while their women were busied with the domestic toil
outside, milking their camels and smoking their
huge-bowled pipes.

By eight o'clock in the evening the Victoria had advanced
more than two hundred miles to the westward,
and our aeronauts became the spectators of a magnificent
scene.

A mass of moonbeams forcing their way through an
opening in the clouds, and gliding between the long lines
of falling rain, descended in a golden shower on the ridges
of the Hombori Mountains. Nothing could be more
weird than the appearance of these seemingly basaltic
summits; they stood out in fantastic profile against the
sombre sky, and the beholder might have fancied them to
be the legendary ruins of some vast city of the middle
ages, such as the icebergs of the polar seas sometimes
mimic them in nights of gloom.

"An admirable landscape for the 'Mysteries of Udolpho'!"
exclaimed the doctor. "Ann Radcliffe could not
have depicted yon mountains in a more appalling aspect."

"Faith!" said Joe, "I wouldn't like to be strolling
alone in the evening through this country of ghosts. Do
you see now, master, if it wasn't so heavy, I'd like to carry
that whole landscape home to Scotland! It would do for
the borders of Loch Lomond, and tourists would rush there
in crowds."

"Our balloon is hardly large enough to admit of that
little experiment--but I think our direction is changing.
Bravo!--the elves and fairies of the place are quite obliging.
See, they've sent us a nice little southeast breeze,
that will put us on the right track again."

In fact, the Victoria was resuming a more northerly
route, and on the morning of the 20th she was passing
over an inextricable network of channels, torrents, and
streams, in fine, the whole complicated tangle of the Niger's
tributaries. Many of these channels, covered with a thick
growth of herbage, resembled luxuriant meadow-lands.
There the doctor recognized the route followed by the
explorer Barth when he launched upon the river to descend
to Timbuctoo. Eight hundred fathoms broad at this point,
the Niger flowed between banks richly grown with cruciferous
plants and tamarind-trees. Herds of agile gazelles were seen
skipping about, their curling horns mingling with the tall
herbage, within which the alligator, half concealed, lay
silently in wait for them with watchful eyes.

Long files of camels and asses laden with merchandise
from Jenne were winding in under the noble trees. Ere
long, an amphitheatre of low-built houses was discovered
at a turn of the river, their roofs and terraces heaped up
with hay and straw gathered from the neighboring districts.

"There's Kabra!" exclaimed the doctor, joyously;
"there is the harbor of Timbuctoo, and the city is not
five miles from here!"

"Then, sir, you are satisfied?" half queried Joe.

"Delighted, my boy!"

"Very good; then every thing's for the best!"

In fact, about two o'clock, the Queen of the Desert,
mysterious Timbuctoo, which once, like Athens and Rome,
had her schools of learned men, and her professorships
of philosophy, stretched away before the gaze of our
travellers.

Ferguson followed the most minute details upon the
chart traced by Barth himself, and was enabled to
recognize its perfect accuracy.

The city forms an immense triangle marked out upon
a vast plain of white sand, its acute angle directed toward
the north and piercing a corner of the desert. In the environs
there was almost nothing, hardly even a few grasses,
with some dwarf mimosas and stunted bushes.

As for the appearance of Timbuctoo, the reader has but
to imagine a collection of billiard-balls and thimbles--such
is the bird's-eye view! The streets, which are quite narrow,
are lined with houses only one story in height, built
of bricks dried in the sun, and huts of straw and reeds, the
former square, the latter conical. Upon the terraces were
seen some of the male inhabitants, carelessly lounging at
full length in flowing apparel of bright colors, and lance
or musket in hand; but no women were visible at that
hour of the day.

"Yet they are said to be handsome," remarked the
doctor. "You see the three towers of the three mosques
that are the only ones left standing of a great number--
the city has indeed fallen from its ancient splendor! At
the top of the triangle rises the Mosque of Sankore, with its
ranges of galleries resting on arcades of sufficiently pure
design. Farther on, and near to the Sane-Gungu quarter,
is the Mosque of Sidi-Yahia and some two-story houses.
But do not look for either palaces or monuments: the
sheik is a mere son of traffic, and his royal palace is a
counting-house."

"It seems to me that I can see half-ruined ramparts,"
said Kennedy.

"They were destroyed by the Fouillanes in 1826; the
city was one-third larger then, for Timbuctoo, an object
generally coveted by all the tribes, since the eleventh
century, has belonged in succession to the Touaregs, the
Sonrayans, the Morocco men, and the Fouillanes; and this
great centre of civilization, where a sage like Ahmed-Baba
owned, in the sixteenth century, a library of sixteen hundred
manuscripts, is now nothing but a mere half-way house for
the trade of Central Africa."

The city, indeed, seemed abandoned to supreme neglect;
it betrayed that indifference which seems epidemic
to cities that are passing away. Huge heaps of rubbish
encumbered the suburbs, and, with the hill on which the
market-place stood, formed the only inequalities of the
ground.

When the Victoria passed, there was some slight show
of movement; drums were beaten; but the last learned
man still lingering in the place had hardly time to notice
the new phenomenon, for our travellers, driven onward
by the wind of the desert, resumed the winding course of
the river, and, ere long, Timbuctoo was nothing more than
one of the fleeting reminiscences of their journey.

"And now," said the doctor, "Heaven may waft us
whither it pleases!"

"Provided only that we go westward," added Kennedy.

"Bah!" said Joe; "I wouldn't be afraid if it was to
go back to Zanzibar by the same road, or to cross the
ocean to America."

"We would first have to be able to do that, Joe!"

"And what's wanting, doctor?"

"Gas, my boy; the ascending force of the balloon is
evidently growing weaker, and we shall need all our
management to make it carry us to the sea-coast. I shall
even have to throw over some ballast. We are too heavy."

"That's what comes of doing nothing, doctor; when a
man lies stretched out all day long in his hammock, he
gets fat and heavy. It's a lazybones trip, this of ours,
master, and when we get back every body will find us big
and stout."

"Just like Joe," said Kennedy; "just the ideas for
him: but wait a bit! Can you tell what we may have to
go through yet? We are still far from the end of our trip.
Where do you expect to strike the African coast, doctor?"

"I should find it hard to answer you, Kennedy. We
are at the mercy of very variable winds; but I should
think myself fortunate were we to strike it between Sierra
Leone and Portendick. There is a stretch of country in
that quarter where we should meet with friends."

"And it would be a pleasure to press their hands; but,
are we going in the desirable direction?"

"Not any too well, Dick; not any too well! Look at
the needle of the compass; we are bearing southward, and
ascending the Niger toward its sources."

"A fine chance to discover them," said Joe, "if they
were not known already. Now, couldn't we just find
others for it, on a pinch?"

"Not exactly, Joe; but don't be alarmed: I hardly
expect to go so far as that."

At nightfall the doctor threw out the last bags of sand.
The Victoria rose higher, and the blow-pipe, although working
at full blast, could scarcely keep her up. At that time
she was sixty miles to the southward of Timbuctoo, and in
the morning the aeronauts awoke over the banks of the
Niger, not far from Lake Debo.



CHAPTER FORTIETH.

Dr. Ferguson's Anxieties.--Persistent Movement southward.--A Cloud of
Grasshoppers.--A View of Jenne.--A View of Sego.--Change of the
Wind.--Joe's Regrets.

The flow of the river was, at that point, divided by
large islands into narrow branches, with a very rapid current.
Upon one among them stood some shepherds' huts,
but it had become impossible to take an exact observation
of them, because the speed of the balloon was constantly
increasing. Unfortunately, it turned still more toward
the south, and in a few moments crossed Lake Debo.

Dr. Ferguson, forcing the dilation of his aerial craft
to the utmost, sought for other currents of air at different
heights, but in vain; and he soon gave up the attempt,
which was only augmenting the waste of gas by pressing
it against the well-worn tissue of the balloon.

He made no remark, but he began to feel very anxious.
This persistence of the wind to head him off toward the
southern part of Africa was defeating his calculations, and
he no longer knew upon whom or upon what to depend.
Should he not reach the English or French territories,
what was to become of him in the midst of the barbarous
tribes that infest the coasts of Guinea? How should he
there get to a ship to take him back to England? And
the actual direction of the wind was driving him along to
the kingdom of Dahomey, among the most savage races,
and into the power of a ruler who was in the habit of
sacrificing thousands of human victims at his public orgies.
There he would be lost!

On the other hand, the balloon was visibly wearing out,
and the doctor felt it failing him. However, as the weather
was clearing up a little, he hoped that the cessation of the
rain would bring about a change in the atmospheric currents.

It was therefore a disagreeable reminder of the actual
situation when Joe said aloud:

"There! the rain's going to pour down harder than ever;
and this time it will be the deluge itself, if we're to
judge by yon cloud that's coming up!"

"What! another cloud?" asked Ferguson.

"Yes, and a famous one," replied Kennedy.

"I never saw the like of it," added Joe.

"I breathe freely again!" said the doctor, laying down
his spy-glass. "That's not a cloud!"

"Not a cloud?" queried Joe, with surprise.

"No; it is a swarm."

"Eh?"

"A swarm of grasshoppers!"

"That? Grasshoppers!"

"Myriads of grasshoppers, that are going to sweep over
this country like a water-spout; and woe to it! for, should
these insects alight, it will be laid waste."

"That would be a sight worth beholding!"

"Wait a little, Joe. In ten minutes that cloud will
have arrived where we are, and you can then judge by the
aid of your own eyes."

The doctor was right. The cloud, thick, opaque, and
several miles in extent, came on with a deafening noise,
casting its immense shadow over the fields. It was composed
of numberless legions of that species of grasshopper
called crickets. About a hundred paces from the
balloon, they settled down upon a tract full of foliage and
verdure. Fifteen minutes later, the mass resumed its
flight, and our travellers could, even at a distance, see the
trees and the bushes entirely stripped, and the fields as
bare as though they had been swept with the scythe.
One would have thought that a sudden winter had just
descended upon the earth and struck the region with the
most complete sterility.

"Well, Joe, what do you think of that?"

"Well, doctor, it's very curious, but quite natural.
What one grasshopper does on a small scale, thousands
do on a grand scale."

"It's a terrible shower," said the hunter; "more so
than hail itself in the devastation it causes."

"It is impossible to prevent it," replied Ferguson.
"Sometimes the inhabitants have had the idea to burn
the forests, and even the standing crops, in order to arrest
the progress of these insects; but the first ranks plunging
into the flames would extinguish them beneath their mass,
and the rest of the swarm would then pass irresistibly
onward. Fortunately, in these regions, there is some sort
of compensation for their ravages, since the natives gather
these insects in great numbers and greedily eat them."

"They are the prawns of the air," said Joe, who added
that he was sorry that he had never had the chance to
taste them--just for information's sake!

The country became more marshy toward evening;
the forests dwindled to isolated clumps of trees; and on
the borders of the river could be seen plantations of
tobacco, and swampy meadow-lands fat with forage. At
last the city of Jenne, on a large island, came in sight,
with the two towers of its clay-built mosque, and the
putrid odor of the millions of swallows' nests accumulated
in its walls. The tops of some baobabs, mimosas, and
date-trees peeped up between the houses; and, even at
night, the activity of the place seemed very great. Jenne
is, in fact, quite a commercial city: it supplies all the
wants of Timbuctoo. Its boats on the river, and its caravans
along the shaded roads, bear thither the various
products of its industry.

"Were it not that to do so would prolong our journey,"
said the doctor, "I should like to alight at this place.
There must be more than one Arab there who has travelled
in England and France, and to whom our style of locomotion
is not altogether new. But it would not be prudent."

"Let us put off the visit until our next trip," said Joe,
laughing.

"Besides, my friends, unless I am mistaken, the wind
has a slight tendency to veer a little more to the eastward,
and we must not lose such an opportunity."

The doctor threw overboard some articles that were
no longer of use--some empty bottles, and a case that had
contained preserved-meat--and thereby managed to keep
the balloon in a belt of the atmosphere more favorable to
his plans. At four o'clock in the morning the first rays
of the sun lighted up Sego, the capital of Bambarra, which
could be recognized at once by the four towns that compose
it, by its Saracenic mosques, and by the incessant
going and coming of the flat-bottomed boats that convey
its inhabitants from one quarter to the other. But
the travellers were not more seen than they saw. They
sped rapidly and directly to the northwest, and the doctor's
anxiety gradually subsided.

"Two more days in this direction, and at this rate of
speed, and we'll reach the Senegal River."

"And we'll be in a friendly country?" asked the hunter.

"Not altogether; but, if the worst came to the worst,
and the balloon were to fail us, we might make our way
to the French settlements. But, let it hold out only for a
few hundred miles, and we shall arrive without fatigue,
alarm, or danger, at the western coast."

"And the thing will be over!" added Joe. "Heigh-ho!
so much the worse. If it wasn't for the pleasure of telling
about it, I would never want to set foot on the ground
again! Do you think anybody will believe our story, doctor?"

"Who can tell, Joe? One thing, however, will be
undeniable: a thousand witnesses saw us start on one
side of the African Continent, and a thousand more will
see us arrive on the other."

"And, in that case, it seems to me that it would be
hard to say that we had not crossed it," added Kennedy.

"Ah, doctor!" said Joe again, with a deep sigh, "I'll
think more than once of my lumps of solid gold-ore!
There was something that would have given WEIGHT to our
narrative! At a grain of gold per head, I could have got
together a nice crowd to listen to me, and even to admire me!"



CHAPTER FORTY-FIRST.

The Approaches to Senegal.--The Balloon sinks lower and lower.--They
keep throwing out, throwing out.--The Marabout Al-Hadji.--Messrs.
Pascal, Vincent, and Lambert.--A Rival of Mohammed.--The Difficult
Mountains.--Kennedy's Weapons.--One of Joe's Manoeuvres.--A Halt
over a Forest.

On the 27th of May, at nine o'clock in the morning,
the country presented an entirely different aspect. The
slopes, extending far away, changed to hills that gave
evidence of mountains soon to follow. They would have to
cross the chain which separates the basin of the Niger
from the basin of the Senegal, and determines the course
of the water-shed, whether to the Gulf of Guinea on the
one hand, or to the bay of Cape Verde on the other.

As far as Senegal, this part of Africa is marked down
as dangerous. Dr. Ferguson knew it through the recitals
of his predecessors. They had suffered a thousand privations
and been exposed to a thousand dangers in the midst
of these barbarous negro tribes. It was this fatal climate
that had devoured most of the companions of Mungo Park.
Ferguson, therefore, was more than ever decided not to
set foot in this inhospitable region.

But he had not enjoyed one moment of repose. The
Victoria was descending very perceptibly, so much so
that he had to throw overboard a number more of useless
articles, especially when there was a mountain-top to pass.
Things went on thus for more than one hundred and
twenty miles; they were worn out with ascending and
falling again; the balloon, like another rock of Sisyphus,
kept continually sinking back toward the ground. The
rotundity of the covering, which was now but little inflated,
was collapsing already. It assumed an elongated shape,
and the wind hollowed large cavities in the silken surface.

Kennedy could not help observing this.

"Is there a crack or a tear in the balloon?" he asked.

"No, but the gutta percha has evidently softened or
melted in the heat, and the hydrogen is escaping through
the silk."

"How can we prevent that?"

"It is impossible. Let us lighten her. That is the
only help. So let us throw out every thing we can spare."

"But what shall it be?" said the hunter, looking at
the car, which was already quite bare.

"Well, let us get rid of the awning, for its weight is
quite considerable."

Joe, who was interested in this order, climbed up on
the circle which kept together the cordage of the network,
and from that place easily managed to detach the heavy
curtains of the awning and throw them overboard.

"There's something that will gladden the hearts of a
whole tribe of blacks," said he; "there's enough to dress
a thousand of them, for they're not very extravagant with
cloth."

The balloon had risen a little, but it soon became evident
that it was again approaching the ground.

"Let us alight," suggested Kennedy, "and see what
can be done with the covering of the balloon."

"I tell you, again, Dick, that we have no means of repairing it."

"Then what shall we do?"

"We'll have to sacrifice every thing not absolutely indispensable;
I am anxious, at all hazards, to avoid a detention in these
regions. The forests over the tops of which we are skimming are
any thing but safe."

"What! are there lions in them, or hyenas?" asked
Joe, with an expression of sovereign contempt.

"Worse than that, my boy! There are men, and some
of the most cruel, too, in all Africa."

"How is that known?"

"By the statements of travellers who have been here
before us. Then the French settlers, who occupy the
colony of Senegal, necessarily have relations with the
surrounding tribes. Under the administration of Colonel
Faidherbe, reconnoissances have been pushed far up into
the country. Officers such as Messrs. Pascal, Vincent, and
Lambert, have brought back precious documents from their
expeditions. They have explored these countries formed by
the elbow of the Senegal in places where war and pillage
have left nothing but ruins."

"What, then, took place?"

"I will tell you. In 1854 a Marabout of the Senegalese
Fouta, Al-Hadji by name, declaring himself to be inspired
like Mohammed, stirred up all the tribes to war
against the infidels--that is to say, against the
Europeans. He carried destruction and desolation over the
regions between the Senegal River and its tributary,
the Fateme. Three hordes of fanatics led on by him
scoured the country, sparing neither a village nor a hut
in their pillaging, massacring career. He advanced in
person on the town of Sego, which was a long time
threatened. In 1857 he worked up farther to the northward,
and invested the fortification of Medina, built by the
French on the bank of the river. This stronghold was
defended by Paul Holl, who, for several months, without
provisions or ammunition, held out until Colonel Faidherbe
came to his relief. Al-Hadji and his bands then
repassed the Senegal, and reappeared in the Kaarta,
continuing their rapine and murder.--Well, here below us
is the very country in which he has found refuge with his
hordes of banditti; and I assure you that it would not be
a good thing to fall into his hands."

"We shall not," said Joe, "even if we have to throw
overboard our clothes to save the Victoria."

"We are not far from the river," said the doctor, "but
I foresee that our balloon will not be able to carry
us beyond it."

"Let us reach its banks, at all events," said the Scot,
"and that will be so much gained."

"That is what we are trying to do," rejoined Ferguson,
"only that one thing makes me feel anxious."

"What is that?"

"We shall have mountains to pass, and that will be
difficult to do, since I cannot augment the ascensional force
of the balloon, even with the greatest possible heat that I
can produce."

"Well, wait a bit," said Kennedy, "and we shall see!"

"The poor Victoria!" sighed Joe; "I had got fond
of her as the sailor does of his ship, and I'll not give her
up so easily. She may not be what she was at the start--
granted; but we shouldn't say a word against her. She
has done us good service, and it would break my heart to
desert her."

"Be at your ease, Joe; if we leave her, it will be in
spite of ourselves. She'll serve us until she's completely
worn out, and I ask of her only twenty-four hours more!"

"Ah, she's getting used up! She grows thinner and
thinner," said Joe, dolefully, while he eyed her. "Poor
balloon!"

"Unless I am deceived," said Kennedy, "there on the
horizon are the mountains of which you were speaking,
doctor."

"Yes, there they are, indeed!" exclaimed the doctor,
after having examined them through his spy-glass, "and
they look very high. We shall have some trouble in
crossing them."

"Can we not avoid them?"

"I am afraid not, Dick. See what an immense space
they occupy--nearly one-half of the horizon!"

"They even seem to shut us in," added Joe. "They
are gaining on both our right and our left."

"We must then pass over them."

These obstacles, which threatened such imminent peril,
seemed to approach with extreme rapidity, or, to speak
more accurately, the wind, which was very fresh, was
hurrying the balloon toward the sharp peaks. So rise it
must, or be dashed to pieces.

"Let us empty our tank of water," said the doctor,
"and keep only enough for one day."

"There it goes," shouted Joe.

"Does the balloon rise at all?" asked Kennedy.

"A little--some fifty feet," replied the doctor, who
kept his eyes fixed on the barometer. "But that is not
enough."

In truth the lofty peaks were starting up so swiftly before
the travellers that they seemed to be rushing down upon them.
The balloon was far from rising above them. She lacked an
elevation of more than five hundred feet more.

The stock of water for the cylinder was also thrown
overboard and only a few pints were retained, but still all
this was not enough.

"We must pass them though!" urged the doctor.

"Let us throw out the tanks--we have emptied them."
said Kennedy.

"Over with them!"

"There they go!" panted Joe. "But it's hard to see
ourselves dropping off this way by piecemeal."

"Now, for your part, Joe, make no attempt to sacrifice
yourself as you did the other day! Whatever happens,
swear to me that you will not leave us!"

"Have no fears, my master, we shall not be separated."

The Victoria had ascended some hundred and twenty
feet, but the crest of the mountain still towered above it.
It was an almost perpendicular ridge that ended in a regular
wall rising abruptly in a straight line. It still rose
more than two hundred feet over the aeronauts.

"In ten minutes," said the doctor to himself, "our car
will be dashed against those rocks unless we succeed in
passing them!"

"Well, doctor?" queried Joe.

"Keep nothing but our pemmican, and throw out all
the heavy meat."

Thereupon the balloon was again lightened by some
fifty pounds, and it rose very perceptibly, but that was of
little consequence, unless it got above the line of the
mountain-tops. The situation was terrifying. The Victoria
was rushing on with great rapidity. They could
feel that she would be dashed to pieces--that the shock
would be fearful.

The doctor glanced around him in the car. It was
nearly empty.

"If needs be, Dick, hold yourself in readiness to throw
over your fire-arms!"

"Sacrifice my fire-arms?" repeated the sportsman,
with intense feeling.

"My friend, I ask it; it will be absolutely necessary!"

"Samuel! Doctor!"

"Your guns, and your stock of powder and ball might
cost us our lives."

"We are close to it!" cried Joe.

Sixty feet! The mountain still overtopped the balloon
by sixty feet.

Joe took the blankets and other coverings and tossed
them out; then, without a word to Kennedy, he threw
over several bags of bullets and lead.

The balloon went up still higher; it surmounted the
dangerous ridge, and the rays of the sun shone upon its
uppermost extremity; but the car was still below the level
of certain broken masses of rock, against which it would
inevitably be dashed.

"Kennedy! Kennedy! throw out your fire-arms, or
we are lost!" shouted the doctor.

"Wait, sir; wait one moment!" they heard Joe exclaim,
and, looking around, they saw Joe disappear over
the edge of the balloon.

"Joe! Joe!" cried Kennedy.

"Wretched man!" was the doctor's agonized expression.

The flat top of the mountain may have had about
twenty feet in breadth at this point, and, on the other
side, the slope presented a less declivity. The car just
touched the level of this plane, which happened to be quite
even, and it glided over a soil composed of sharp pebbles
that grated as it passed.

"We're over it! we're over it! we're clear!" cried out
an exulting voice that made Ferguson's heart leap to his
throat.

The daring fellow was there, grasping the lower rim of
the car, and running afoot over the top of the mountain,
thus lightening the balloon of his whole weight. He had
to hold on with all his strength, too, for it was likely to
escape his grasp at any moment.

When he had reached the opposite declivity, and the
abyss was before him, Joe, by a vigorous effort, hoisted
himself from the ground, and, clambering up by the cordage,
rejoined his friends.

"That was all!" he coolly ejaculated.

"My brave Joe! my friend!" said the doctor, with
deep emotion.

"Oh! what I did," laughed the other, "was not for
you; it was to save Mr. Kennedy's rifle. I owed him
that good turn for the affair with the Arab! I like to
pay my debts, and now we are even," added he, handing
to the sportsman his favorite weapon. "I'd feel very
badly to see you deprived of it."

Kennedy heartily shook the brave fellow's hand, without
being able to utter a word.

The Victoria had nothing to do now but to descend.
That was easy enough, so that she was soon at a height
of only two hundred feet from the ground, and was then
in equilibrium. The surface seemed very much broken
as though by a convulsion of nature. It presented numerous
inequalities, which would have been very difficult to
avoid during the night with a balloon that could no longer
be controlled. Evening was coming on rapidly, and,
notwithstanding his repugnance, the doctor had to make
up his mind to halt until morning.

"We'll now look for a favorable stopping-place," said he.

"Ah!" replied Kennedy, "you have made up your
mind, then, at last?"

"Yes, I have for a long time been thinking over a plan
which we'll try to put into execution; it is only six o'clock
in the evening, and we shall have time enough. Throw
out your anchors, Joe!"

Joe immediately obeyed, and the two anchors dangled
below the balloon.

"I see large forests ahead of us," said the doctor; "we
are going to sweep along their tops, and we shall grapple
to some tree, for nothing would make me think of passing
the night below, on the ground."

"But can we not descend?" asked Kennedy.

"To what purpose? I repeat that it would be dangerous
for us to separate, and, besides, I claim your help
for a difficult piece of work."

The Victoria, which was skimming along the tops of
immense forests, soon came to a sharp halt. Her anchors
had caught, and, the wind falling as dusk came on, she
remained motionlessly suspended above a vast field of
verdure, formed by the tops of a forest of sycamores.



CHAPTER FORTY-SECOND.

A Struggle of Generosity.--The Last Sacrifice.--The Dilating Apparatus.
--Joe's Adroitness.--Midnight.--The Doctor's Watch.--Kennedy's Watch.
--The Latter falls asleep at his Post.--The Fire.--The Howlings of the
Natives.--Out of Range.

Doctor Ferguson's first care was to take his bearings
by stellar observation, and he discovered that he was
scarcely twenty-five miles from Senegal.

"All that we can manage to do, my friends," said he,
after having pointed his map, "is to cross the river; but,
as there is neither bridge nor boat, we must, at all hazards,
cross it with the balloon, and, in order to do that, we must
still lighten up."

"But I don't exactly see how we can do that?" replied
Kennedy, anxious about his fire-arms, "unless one of us
makes up his mind to sacrifice himself for the rest,--that
is, to stay behind, and, in my turn, I claim that honor."

"You, indeed!" remonstrated Joe; "ain't I used to--"

"The question now is, not to throw ourselves out of
the car, but simply to reach the coast of Africa on foot. I
am a first-rate walker, a good sportsman, and--"

"I'll never consent to it!" insisted Joe.

"Your generous rivalry is useless, my brave friends,"
said Ferguson; "I trust that we shall not come to any
such extremity: besides, if we did, instead of separating,
we should keep together, so as to make our way across the
country in company."

"That's the talk," said Joe; "a little tramp won't do
us any harm."

"But before we try that," resumed the doctor, "we
must employ a last means of lightening the balloon."

"What will that be? I should like to see it," said
Kennedy, incredulously.

"We must get rid of the cylinder-chests, the spiral,
and the Buntzen battery. Nine hundred pounds make a
rather heavy load to carry through the air."

"But then, Samuel, how will you dilate your gas?"

"I shall not do so at all. We'll have to get along
without it."

"But--"

"Listen, my friends: I have calculated very exactly
the amount of ascensional force left to us, and it is
sufficient to carry us every one with the few objects that
remain. We shall make in all a weight of hardly five
hundred pounds, including the two anchors which I desire
to keep."

"Dear doctor, you know more about the matter than
we do; you are the sole judge of the situation. Tell us
what we ought to do, and we will do it."

"I am at your orders, master," added Joe.

"I repeat, my friends, that however serious the decision
may appear, we must sacrifice our apparatus."

"Let it go, then!" said Kennedy, promptly.

"To work!" said Joe.

It was no easy job. The apparatus had to be taken
down piece by piece. First, they took out the mixing
reservoir, then the one belonging to the cylinder, and
lastly the tank in which the decomposition of the water
was effected. The united strength of all three travellers
was required to detach these reservoirs from the bottom
of the car in which they had been so firmly secured; but
Kennedy was so strong, Joe so adroit, and the doctor so
ingenious, that they finally succeeded. The different
pieces were thrown out, one after the other, and they
disappeared below, making huge gaps in the foliage of
the sycamores.

"The black fellows will be mightily astonished," said
Joe, "at finding things like those in the woods; they'll
make idols of them!"

The next thing to be looked after was the displacement
of the pipes that were fastened in the balloon and
connected with the spiral. Joe succeeded in cutting the
caoutchouc jointings above the car, but when he came to
the pipes he found it more difficult to disengage them,
because they were held by their upper extremity and fastened
by wires to the very circlet of the valve.

Then it was that Joe showed wonderful adroitness.
In his naked feet, so as not to scratch the covering, he
succeeded by the aid of the network, and in spite of the
oscillations of the balloon, in climbing to the upper
extremity, and after a thousand difficulties, in holding on
with one hand to that slippery surface, while he detached
the outside screws that secured the pipes in their place.
These were then easily taken out, and drawn away by the
lower end, which was hermetically sealed by means of a
strong ligature.

The Victoria, relieved of this considerable weight, rose
upright in the air and tugged strongly at the anchor-rope.

About midnight this work ended without accident, but
at the cost of most severe exertion, and the trio partook
of a luncheon of pemmican and cold punch, as the doctor
had no more fire to place at Joe's disposal.

Besides, the latter and Kennedy were dropping off
their feet with fatigue.

"Lie down, my friends, and get some rest," said the
doctor. "I'll take the first watch; at two o'clock I'll
waken Kennedy; at four, Kennedy will waken Joe, and
at six we'll start; and may Heaven have us in its keeping
for this last day of the trip!"

Without waiting to be coaxed, the doctor's two companions
stretched themselves at the bottom of the car and
dropped into profound slumber on the instant.

The night was calm. A few clouds broke against the
last quarter of the moon, whose uncertain rays scarcely
pierced the darkness. Ferguson, resting his elbows on the
rim of the car, gazed attentively around him. He watched
with close attention the dark screen of foliage that spread
beneath him, hiding the ground from his view. The least
noise aroused his suspicions, and he questioned even the
slightest rustling of the leaves.

He was in that mood which solitude makes more keenly
felt, and during which vague terrors mount to the brain.
At the close of such a journey, after having surmounted
so many obstacles, and at the moment of touching the
goal, one's fears are more vivid, one's emotions keener.
The point of arrival seems to fly farther from our gaze.

Moreover, the present situation had nothing very consolatory
about it. They were in the midst of a barbarous
country, and dependent upon a vehicle that might fail
them at any moment. The doctor no longer counted implicitly
on his balloon; the time had gone by when he
manoevred it boldly because he felt sure of it.

Under the influence of these impressions, the doctor,
from time to time, thought that he heard vague sounds in
the vast forests around him; he even fancied that he saw
a swift gleam of fire shining between the trees. He looked
sharply and turned his night-glass toward the spot; but
there was nothing to be seen, and the profoundest silence
appeared to return.

He had, no doubt, been under the dominion of a mere
hallucination. He continued to listen, but without hearing
the slightest noise. When his watch had expired, he
woke Kennedy, and, enjoining upon him to observe the
extremest vigilance, took his place beside Joe, and fell
sound asleep.

Kennedy, while still rubbing his eyes, which he could
scarcely keep open, calmly lit his pipe. He then ensconced
himself in a corner, and began to smoke vigorously by way
of keeping awake.

The most absolute silence reigned around him; a light
wind shook the tree-tops and gently rocked the car, inviting
the hunter to taste the sleep that stole over him in
spite of himself. He strove hard to resist it, and repeatedly
opened his eyes to plunge into the outer darkness one
of those looks that see nothing; but at last, yielding to
fatigue, he sank back and slumbered.

How long he had been buried in this stupor he knew
not, but he was suddenly aroused from it by a strange,
unexpected crackling sound.

He rubbed his eyes and sprang to his feet. An intense
glare half-blinded him and heated his cheek--the forest
was in flames!

"Fire! fire!" he shouted, scarcely comprehending
what had happened.

His two companions started up in alarm.

"What's the matter?" was the doctor's immediate
exclamation.

"Fire!" said Joe. "But who could--"

At this moment loud yells were heard under the foliage,
which was now illuminated as brightly as the day.

"Ah! the savages!" cried Joe again; "they have set
fire to the forest so as to be the more certain of burning
us up."

"The Talabas! Al-Hadji's marabouts, no doubt," said
the doctor.

A circle of fire hemmed the Victoria in; the crackling
of the dry wood mingled with the hissing and sputtering
of the green branches; the clambering vines, the foliage,
all the living part of this vegetation, writhed in the
destructive element. The eye took in nothing but one vast
ocean of flame; the large trees stood forth in black relief
in this huge furnace, their branches covered with glowing
coals, while the whole blazing mass, the entire conflagration,
was reflected on the clouds, and the travellers could
fancy themselves enveloped in a hollow globe of fire.

"Let us escape to the ground!" shouted Kennedy,
"it is our only chance of safety!"

But Ferguson checked him with a firm grasp, and,
dashing at the anchor-rope, severed it with one well-directed
blow of his hatchet. Meanwhile, the flames, leaping up at
the balloon, already quivered on its illuminated sides; but
the Victoria, released from her fastenings, spun
upward a thousand feet into the air.

Frightful yells resounded through the forest, along
with the report of fire-arms, while the balloon, caught in a
current of air that rose with the dawn of day, was borne to
the westward.

It was now four o'clock in the morning.



CHAPTER FORTY-THIRD.

The Talabas.--The Pursuit.--A Devastated Country.--The Wind begins to
fall.--The Victoria sinks.--The last of the Provisions.--The Leaps of
the Balloon.--A Defence with Fire-arms.--The Wind freshens.--The Senegal
River.--The Cataracts of Gouina.--The Hot Air.--The Passage of the River.

"Had we not taken the precaution to lighten the balloon
yesterday evening, we should have been lost beyond
redemption," said the doctor, after a long silence.

"See what's gained by doing things at the right
time!" replied Joe. "One gets out of scrapes then, and
nothing is more natural."

"We are not out of danger yet," said the doctor.

"What do you still apprehend?" queried Kennedy.
"The balloon can't descend without your permission, and
even were it to do so--"

"Were it to do so, Dick? Look!"

They had just passed the borders of the forest, and
the three friends could see some thirty mounted men clad
in broad pantaloons and the floating bournouses. They were
armed, some with lances, and others with long muskets,
and they were following, on their quick, fiery little steeds,
the direction of the balloon, which was moving at only
moderate speed.

When they caught sight of the aeronauts, they uttered
savage cries, and brandished their weapons. Anger and
menace could be read upon their swarthy faces, made
more ferocious by thin but bristling beards. Meanwhile
they galloped along without difficulty over the low levels
and gentle declivities that lead down to the Senegal.

"It is, indeed, they!" said the doctor; "the cruel
Talabas! the ferocious marabouts of Al-Hadji! I would
rather find myself in the middle of the forest encircled by
wild beasts than fall into the hands of these banditti."

"They haven't a very obliging look!" assented Kennedy;
"and they are rough, stalwart fellows."

"Happily those brutes can't fly," remarked Joe; "and
that's something."

"See," said Ferguson, "those villages in ruins, those
huts burned down--that is their work! Where vast
stretches of cultivated land were once seen, they have
brought barrenness and devastation."

"At all events, however," interposed Kennedy, "they
can't overtake us; and, if we succeed in putting the river
between us and them, we are safe."

"Perfectly, Dick," replied Ferguson; "but we must
not fall to the ground!" and, as he said this, he glanced
at the barometer.

"In any case, Joe," added Kennedy, "it would do us
no harm to look to our fire-arms."

"No harm in the world, Mr. Dick! We are lucky
that we didn't scatter them along the road."

"My rifle!" said the sportsman. "I hope that I shall
never be separated from it!"

And so saying, Kennedy loaded the pet piece with the
greatest care, for he had plenty of powder and ball remaining.

"At what height are we?" he asked the doctor.

"About seven hundred and fifty feet; but we no longer
have the power of seeking favorable currents, either going
up or coming down. We are at the mercy of the balloon!"

"That is vexatious!" rejoined Kennedy. "The wind
is poor; but if we had come across a hurricane like some
of those we met before, these vile brigands would have
been out of sight long ago."

"The rascals follow us at their leisure," said Joe.
"They're only at a short gallop. Quite a nice little
ride!"

"If we were within range," sighed the sportsman, "I
should amuse myself with dismounting a few of them."

"Exactly," said the doctor; "but then they would
have you within range also, and our balloon would offer
only too plain a target to the bullets from their long guns;
and, if they were to make a hole in it, I leave you to judge
what our situation would be!"

The pursuit of the Talabas continued all morning;
and by eleven o'clock the aeronauts had made scarcely
fifteen miles to the westward.

The doctor was anxiously watching for the least cloud
on the horizon. He feared, above all things, a change in
the atmosphere. Should he be thrown back toward the
Niger, what would become of him? Besides, he remarked
that the balloon tended to fall considerably. Since the
start, he had already lost more than three hundred feet,
and the Senegal must be about a dozen miles distant.
At his present rate of speed, he could count upon
travelling only three hours longer.

At this moment his attention was attracted by fresh
cries. The Talabas appeared to be much excited, and
were spurring their horses.

The doctor consulted his barometer, and at once discovered
the cause of these symptoms.

"Are we descending?" asked Kennedy.

"Yes!" replied the doctor.

"The mischief!" thought Joe

In the lapse of fifteen minutes the Victoria was only
one hundred and fifty feet above the ground; but the
wind was much stronger than before.

The Talabas checked their horses, and soon a volley
of musketry pealed out on the air.

"Too far, you fools!" bawled Joe. "I think it would
be well to keep those scamps at a distance."

And, as he spoke, he aimed at one of the horsemen
who was farthest to the front, and fired. The Talaba fell
headlong, and, his companions halting for a moment, the
balloon gained upon them.

"They are prudent!" said Kennedy.

"Because they think that they are certain to take us,"
replied the doctor; "and, they will succeed if we descend
much farther. We must, absolutely, get higher into the air."

"What can we throw out?" asked Joe.

"All that remains of our stock of pemmican; that will
be thirty pounds less weight to carry."

"Out it goes, sir!" said Joe, obeying orders.

The car, which was now almost touching the ground,
rose again, amid the cries of the Talabas; but, half an
hour later, the balloon was again falling rapidly, because
the gas was escaping through the pores of the covering.

Ere long the car was once more grazing the soil, and
Al-Hadji's black riders rushed toward it; but, as frequently
happens in like cases, the balloon had scarcely
touched the surface ere it rebounded, and only came down
again a mile away.

"So we shall not escape!" said Kennedy, between his teeth.

"Throw out our reserved store of brandy, Joe," cried
the doctor; "our instruments, and every thing that has
any weight, even to our last anchor, because go they must!"

Joe flung out the barometers and thermometers, but
all that amounted to little; and the balloon, which had
risen for an instant, fell again toward the ground.

The Talabas flew toward it, and at length were not
more than two hundred paces away.

"Throw out the two fowling-pieces!" shouted Ferguson.

"Not without discharging them, at least," responded
the sportsman; and four shots in quick succession struck
the thick of the advancing group of horsemen. Four
Talabas fell, amid the frantic howls and imprecations of
their comrades.

The Victoria ascended once more, and made some
enormous leaps, like a huge gum-elastic ball, bounding
and rebounding through the air. A strange sight it was
to see these unfortunate men endeavoring to escape by
those huge aerial strides, and seeming, like the giant
Antaeus, to receive fresh strength every time they touched
the earth. But this situation had to terminate. It was
now nearly noon; the Victoria was getting empty and
exhausted, and assuming a more and more elongated form
every instant. Its outer covering was becoming flaccid,
and floated loosely in the air, and the folds of the silk
rustled and grated on each other.

"Heaven abandons us!" said Kennedy; "we have to fall!"

Joe made no answer. He kept looking intently at his master.

"No!" said the latter; "we have more than one hundred
and fifty pounds yet to throw out."

"What can it be, then?" said Kennedy, thinking that
the doctor must be going mad.

"The car!" was his reply; "we can cling to the
network. There we can hang on in the meshes until we
reach the river. Quick! quick!"

And these daring men did not hesitate a moment to
avail themselves of this last desperate means of escape.
They clutched the network, as the doctor directed, and
Joe, holding on by one hand, with the other cut the cords
that suspended the car; and the latter dropped to the
ground just as the balloon was sinking for the last time.

"Hurrah! hurrah!" shouted the brave fellow exultingly,
as the Victoria, once more relieved, shot up again to a
height of three hundred feet.

The Talabas spurred their horses, which now came
tearing on at a furious gallop; but the balloon, falling in
with a much more favorable wind, shot ahead of them,
and was rapidly carried toward a hill that stretched across
the horizon to the westward. This was a circumstance
favorable to the aeronauts, because they could rise over
the hill, while Al-Hadji's horde had to diverge to the
northward in order to pass this obstacle.

The three friends still clung to the network. They
had been able to fasten it under their feet, where it had
formed a sort of swinging pocket.

Suddenly, after they had crossed the hill, the doctor
exclaimed: "The river! the river! the Senegal, my friends!"

And about two miles ahead of them, there was indeed
the river rolling along its broad mass of water, while the
farther bank, which was low and fertile, offered a sure
refuge, and a place favorable for a descent.

"Another quarter of an hour," said Ferguson, "and
we are saved!"

But it was not to happen thus; the empty balloon descended
slowly upon a tract almost entirely bare of vegetation. It
was made up of long slopes and stony plains, a
few bushes and some coarse grass, scorched by the sun.

The Victoria touched the ground several times, and
rose again, but her rebound was diminishing in height and
length. At the last one, it caught by the upper part of
the network in the lofty branches of a baobab, the only
tree that stood there, solitary and alone, in the midst of
the waste.

"It's all over," said Kennedy.

"And at a hundred paces only from the river!"
groaned Joe.

The three hapless aeronauts descended to the ground,
and the doctor drew his companions toward the Senegal.

At this point the river sent forth a prolonged roaring;
and when Ferguson reached its bank, he recognized the
falls of Gouina. But not a boat, not a living creature was
to be seen. With a breadth of two thousand feet, the
Senegal precipitates itself for a height of one hundred and
fifty, with a thundering reverberation. It ran, where they
saw it, from east to west, and the line of rocks that barred
its course extended from north to south. In the midst of
the falls, rocks of strange forms started up like huge
ante-diluvian animals, petrified there amid the waters.

The impossibility of crossing this gulf was self-evident,
and Kennedy could not restrain a gesture of despair.

But Dr. Ferguson, with an energetic accent of undaunted
daring, exclaimed--

"All is not over!"

"I knew it," said Joe, with that confidence in his master
which nothing could ever shake.

The sight of the dried-up grass had inspired the doctor
with a bold idea. It was the last chance of escape. He
led his friends quickly back to where they had left the
covering of the balloon.

"We have at least an hour's start of those banditti,"
said he; "let us lose no time, my friends; gather a quantity
of this dried grass; I want a hundred pounds of it, at least."

"For what purpose?" asked Kennedy, surprised.

"I have no more gas; well, I'll cross the river with hot air!"

"Ah, doctor," exclaimed Kennedy, "you are, indeed,
a great man!"

Joe and Kennedy at once went to work, and soon had
an immense pile of dried grass heaped up near the baobab.

In the mean time, the doctor had enlarged the orifice
of the balloon by cutting it open at the lower end. He
then was very careful to expel the last remnant of hydrogen
through the valve, after which he heaped up a quantity of
grass under the balloon, and set fire to it.

It takes but a little while to inflate a balloon with hot
air. A head of one hundred and eighty degrees is sufficient
to diminish the weight of the air it contains to the
extent of one-half, by rarefying it. Thus, the Victoria
quickly began to assume a more rounded form. There
was no lack of grass; the fire was kept in full blast by the
doctor's assiduous efforts, and the balloon grew fuller every
instant.

It was then a quarter to four o'clock.

At this moment the band of Talabas reappeared about
two miles to the northward, and the three friends could
hear their cries, and the clatter of their horses galloping
at full speed.

"In twenty minutes they will be here!" said Kennedy.

"More grass! more grass, Joe! In ten minutes we
shall have her full of hot air."

"Here it is, doctor!"

The Victoria was now two-thirds inflated.

"Come, my friends, let us take hold of the network, as
we did before."

"All right!" they answered together.

In about ten minutes a few jerking motions by the balloon
indicated that it was disposed to start again. The
Talabas were approaching. They were hardly five hundred
paces away.

"Hold on fast!" cried Ferguson.

"Have no fear, master--have no fear!"

And the doctor, with his foot pushed another heap of
grass upon the fire.

With this the balloon, now completely inflated by the
increased temperature, moved away, sweeping the branches
of the baobab in her flight.

"We're off!" shouted Joe.

A volley of musketry responded to his exclamation. A
bullet even ploughed his shoulder; but Kennedy, leaning
over, and discharging his rifle with one hand, brought
another of the enemy to the ground.

Cries of fury exceeding all description hailed the departure
of the balloon, which had at once ascended nearly
eight hundred feet. A swift current caught and swept it
along with the most alarming oscillations, while the
intrepid doctor and his friends saw the gulf of the
cataracts yawning below them.

Ten minutes later, and without having exchanged a
word, they descended gradually toward the other bank of
the river.

There, astonished, speechless, terrified, stood a group
of men clad in the French uniform. Judge of their amazement
when they saw the balloon rise from the right bank
of the river. They had well-nigh taken it for some celestial
phenomenon, but their officers, a lieutenant of marines
and a naval ensign, having seen mention made of Dr. Ferguson's
daring expedition, in the European papers, quickly
explained the real state of the case.

The balloon, losing its inflation little by little, settled
with the daring travellers still clinging to its network;
but it was doubtful whether it would reach the land. At
once some of the brave Frenchmen rushed into the water
and caught the three aeronauts in their arms just as the
Victoria fell at the distance of a few fathoms from the left
bank of the Senegal.

"Dr. Ferguson!" exclaimed the lieutenant.

"The same, sir," replied the doctor, quietly, "and his
two friends."

The Frenchmen escorted our travellers from the river,
while the balloon, half-empty, and borne away by a swift
current, sped on, to plunge, like a huge bubble, headlong
with the waters of the Senegal, into the cataracts of Gouina.

"The poor Victoria!" was Joe's farewell remark.

The doctor could not restrain a tear, and extending his
hands his two friends wrung them silently with that deep
emotion which requires no spoken words.



CHAPTER FORTY-FOURTH.

Conclusion.--The Certificate.--The French Settlements.--The Post
of Medina.--The Basilic.--Saint Louis.--The English Frigate.--The
Return to London.

The expedition upon the bank of the river had been
sent by the governor of Senegal. It consisted of two officers,
Messrs. Dufraisse, lieutenant of marines, and Rodamel,
naval ensign, and with these were a sergeant and
seven soldiers. For two days they had been engaged in
reconnoitring the most favorable situation for a post at
Gouina, when they became witnesses of Dr. Ferguson's
arrival.

The warm greetings and felicitations of which our travellers
were the recipients may be imagined. The Frenchmen, and
they alone, having had ocular proof of the accomplishment
of the daring project, naturally became Dr. Ferguson's
witnesses. Hence the doctor at once asked them to give
their official testimony of his arrival at the cataracts of Gouina.

"You would have no objection to signing a certificate
of the fact, would you?" he inquired of Lieutenant Dufraisse.

"At your orders!" the latter instantly replied.

The Englishmen were escorted to a provisional post
established on the bank of the river, where they found the
most assiduous attention, and every thing to supply their
wants. And there the following certificate was drawn up
in the terms in which it appears to-day, in the archives of
the Royal Geographical Society of London:

"We, the undersigned, do hereby declare that, on the
day herein mentioned, we witnessed the arrival of Dr.
Ferguson and his two companions, Richard Kennedy and
Joseph Wilson, clinging to the cordage and network of a
balloon, and that the said balloon fell at a distance of a few
paces from us into the river, and being swept away by the
current was lost in the cataracts of Gouina. In testimony
whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and seals beside
those of the persons hereinabove named, for the information
of all whom it may concern.

"Done at the Cataracts of Gouina, on the 24th of May,
1862.
   "(Signed),   "SAMUEL FERGUSON
                "RICHARD KENNEDY,
                "JOSEPH WILSON,
                "DUFRAISSE, Lieutenant of Marines,
                "RODAMEL, Naval Ensign,
                "DUFAYS, Sergeant,
                "FLIPPEAU, MAYOR,   }
                "PELISSIER, LOROIS, } Privates."
                   RASCAGNET, GUIL- }
                   LON, LEBEL,      }


Here ended the astonishing journey of Dr. Ferguson
and his brave companions, as vouched for by undeniable
testimony; and they found themselves among friends in
the midst of most hospitable tribes, whose relations with
the French settlements are frequent and amicable.

They had arrived at Senegal on Saturday, the 24th of
May, and on the 27th of the same month they reached the
post of Medina, situated a little farther to the north, but
on the river.

There the French officers received them with open
arms, and lavished upon them all the resources of their
hospitality. Thus aided, the doctor and his friends were
enabled to embark almost immediately on the small steamer
called the Basilic, which ran down to the mouth of the
river.

Two weeks later, on the 10th of June, they arrived at
Saint Louis, where the governor gave them a magnificent
reception, and they recovered completely from their
excitement and fatigue.

Besides, Joe said to every one who chose to listen:

That was a stupid trip of ours, after all, and I
wouldn't advise any body who is greedy for excitement to
undertake it. It gets very tiresome at the last, and if it
hadn't been for the adventures on Lake Tchad and at the
Senegal River, I do believe that we'd have died of yawning."

An English frigate was just about to sail, and the three
travellers procured passage on board of her. On the 25th
of June they arrived at Portsmouth, and on the next day
at London.

We will not describe the reception they got from the
Royal Geographical Society, nor the intense curiosity and
consideration of which they became the objects. Kennedy
set off, at once, for Edinburgh, with his famous rifle,
for he was in haste to relieve the anxiety of his faithful
old housekeeper.

The doctor and his devoted Joe remained the same
men that we have known them, excepting that one change
took place at their own suggestion.

They ceased to be master and servant, in order to
become bosom friends.

The journals of all Europe were untiring in their
praises of the bold explorers, and the Daily Telegraph
struck off an edition of three hundred and seventy-seven
thousand copies on the day when it published a sketch of
the trip.

Doctor Ferguson, at a public meeting of the Royal
Geographical Society, gave a recital of his journey through
the air, and obtained for himself and his companions the
golden medal set apart to reward the most remarkable
exploring expedition of the year 1862.

----------

The first result of Dr. Ferguson's expedition was to
establish, in the most precise manner, the facts and
geographical surveys reported by Messrs. Barth, Burton,
Speke, and others. Thanks to the still more recent expeditions
of Messrs. Speke and Grant, De Heuglin and Muntzinger,
who have been ascending to the sources of the
Nile, and penetrating to the centre of Africa, we shall be
enabled ere long to verify, in turn, the discoveries of Dr.
Ferguson in that vast region comprised between the fourteenth
and thirty-third degrees of east longitude.





[Portions of this header are copyright (C) 2001 by Michael S. Hart
and may be reprinted only when these Etexts are free of all fees.]
[Project Gutenberg is a TradeMark and may not be used in any sales
of Project Gutenberg Etexts or other materials be they hardware or
software or any other related product without express permission.]





This etext was scanned by J.C. Byers
(http://www.capitalnet.com/~jcbyers/index.htm) and proofread by
J.C. Byers, Sergio Camarena, Muhammad Hozien, P.J. LaBrocca,
Laura Shaffer, Charles Wilson.






                        THE BOOK OF THE
                  THOUSAND NIGHTS AND A NIGHT
                A Plain and Literal Translation
              of the Arabian Nights Entertainments
                                
                  Translated and Annotated by
                       Richard F. Burton
                                
                           VOLUME SIX
              Privately Printed By The Burton Club
                                
                                
                                
                     I Inscribe This Volume
              To My Old And Valued Correspondent,
                    I Whose Debt I Am Deep,
                                
                    Professor Aloys Sprenger
                        (of Heidelberg),
                                
                Arabist, Philosopher and Friend.
                                

                                             Richard F. Burton.


                  Contents of the Sixth Volume

133. Sindbad the Seaman and Sinbad the Landsman
     a.   The First Voyage of Sindbad the Seaman
     b.   The Second Voyage of Sindbad the Seaman
     c.   The Third Voyage of Sindbad the Seaman
     d.   The Fourth Voyage of Sindbad the Seaman
     e.   The Fifth Voyage of Sindbad the Seaman
     f.   The Sixth Voyage of Sindbad the Seaman
     g.   The Seventh Voyage of Sindbad the Seaman
          The Seventh Voyage of Sindbad the Seaman (according to
          the Calcutta Edition)
134. The City of Brass
135. The Craft and Malice of Woman
     a.   The King and His Wazir's Wife
     b.   The Confectioner, His Wife and the Parrot
     c.   The Fuller and His Son
     d.   The Rake's Trick Against the Chaste Wife
     e.   The Miser and the Loaves of Bread
     f.   The Lady and Her Two Lovers
     g.   The King's Son and the Ogeress
     h.   The Drop of Honey
     i.   The Woman Who Made Her Husband Sift Dust
     j.   The Enchanted Spring
     k.   The Wazir's Son and the Hamman-Keeper's Wife
     l.   The Wife's Device to Cheat her Husband
     m.   The Goldsmith and the Cashmere Singing-Girl
     n.   The Man who Never Laughed Duing the Rest of His Days
     o.   The King's Son and the Merchant's Wife
     p.   The Page Who Feigned to Know the Speech of Birds
     q.   The Lady and Her Five Suitors
     r.   The Three Wishes, or the Man Who Longed to see the
          Night of Power
     s.   The Stolen Necklace
     t.   The Two Pigeons
     u.   Prince Behram and the Princess Al-Datma
     v.   The House With the Belvedere
     w.   The King's Son and the Ifrit's Mistress
     x.   The Sandal-Wood Merchant and the Sharpers
     y.   The Debauchee and the Three-Year-Old Child
     z.   The Stolen Purse
     aa.  The Fox and the Folk
136. Judar and His Brethren
137. The History of Gharib and His Brother Ajib




                        The Book Of The
                  THOUSAND NIGHTS AND A NIGHT
                                
                                
                                
       Sindbad The Seaman[FN#1] and Sindbad The Landsman.



There lived in the city of Baghdad, during the reign of the
Commander of the Faithful, Harun al-Rashid, a man named Sindbad
the Hammal,[FN#2] one in poor case who bore burdens on his head
for hire. It happened to him one day of great heat that whilst he
was carrying a heavy load, he became exceeding weary and sweated
profusely, the heat and the weight alike oppressing him.
Presently, as he was passing the gate of a merchant's house,
before which the ground was swept and watered, and there the air
was temperate, he sighted a broad bench beside the door; so he
set his load thereon, to take rest and smell the air,--And
Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her
permitted say.

     When it was the Five Hundred and Thirty-seventh Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when the
Hammal set his load upon the bench to take rest and smell the
air, there came out upon him from the court-door a pleasant
breeze and a delicious fragrance. He sat down on the edge of the
bench, and at once heard from within the melodious sound of lutes
and other stringed instruments, and mirth-exciting voices singing
and reciting, together with the song of birds warbling and
glorifying Almighty Allah in various tunes and tongues; turtles,
mocking-birds, merles, nightingales, cushats and stone-
curlews,[FN#3] whereat he marvelled in himself and was moved to
mighty joy and solace. Then he went up to the gate and saw within
a great flower-garden wherein were pages and black slaves and
such a train of servants and attendants and so forth as is found
only with Kings and Sultans; and his nostrils were greeted with
the savoury odours of all manner meats rich and delicate, and
delicious and generous wines. So he raised his eyes heavenwards
and said, "Glory to Thee, O Lord, O Creator and Provider, who
providest whomso Thou wilt without count or stint! O mine Holy
One, I cry Thee pardon for all sins and turn to Thee repenting of
all offences! O Lord, there is no gainsaying Thee in Thine
ordinance and Thy dominion, neither wilt Thou be questioned of
that Thou dost, for Thou indeed over all things art Almighty!
Extolled be Thy perfection: whom Thou wilt Thou makest poor and
whom Thou wilt Thou makest rich! Whom Thou wilt Thou exaltest and
whom Thou wilt Thou abasest and there is no god but Thou! How
mighty is Thy majesty and how enduring Thy dominion and how
excellent Thy government! Verily, Thou favourest whom Thou wilt
of Thy servants, whereby the owner of this place abideth in all
joyance of life and delighteth himself with pleasant scents and
delicious meats and exquisite wines of all kinds. For indeed Thou
appointest unto Thy creatures that which Thou wilt and that which
Thou hast foreordained unto them; wherefore are some weary and
others are at rest and some enjoy fair fortune and affluence,
whilst others suffer the extreme of travail and misery, even as I
do." And he fell to reciting,

"How many by my labours, that evermore endure, * All goods of
     life enjoy and in cooly shade recline?
Each morn that dawns I wake in travail and in woe, * And strange
     is my condition and my burden gars me pine:
Many others are in luck and from miseries are free, * And Fortune
     never loads them with loads the like o' mine:
They live their happy days in all solace and delight; * Eat,
     drink and dwell in honour 'mid the noble and the digne:
All living things were made of a little drop of sperm, * Thine
     origin is mine and my provenance is thine;
Yet the difference and distance 'twixt the twain of us are far *
     As the difference of savour 'twixt vinegar and wine:
But at Thee, O God All-wise! I venture not to rail * Whose
     ordinance is just and whose justice cannot fail."

When Sindbad the Porter had made an end of reciting his verses,
he bore up his burden and was about to fare on, when there came
forth to him from the gate a little foot-page, fair of face and
shapely of shape and dainty of dress who caught him by the hand
saying, "Come in and speak with my lord, for he calleth for
thee." The Porter would have excused himself to the page but the
lad would take no refusal; so he left his load with the
doorkeeper in the vestibule and followed the boy into the house,
which he found to be a goodly mansion, radiant and full of
majesty, till he brought him to a grand sitting-room wherein he
saw a company of nobles and great lords, seated at tables
garnished with all manner of flowers and sweet-scented herbs,
besides great plenty of dainty viands and fruits dried and fresh
and confections and wines of the choicest vintages. There also
were instruments of music and mirth and lovely slave-girls
playing and singing. All the company was ranged according to
rank; and in the highest place sat a man of worshipful and noble
aspect whose beard-sides hoariness had stricken; and he was
stately of stature and fair of favour, agreeable of aspect and
full of gravity and dignity and majesty. So Sindbad the Porter
was confounded at that which he beheld and said in himself, "By
Allah, this must be either a piece of Paradise or some King's
palace!" Then he saluted the company with much respect praying
for their prosperity, and kissing the ground before them, stood
with his head bowed down in humble attitude.--And Shahrazad
perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.

     When it was the Five Hundred and Thirty-eighth Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Sindbad the
Porter, after kissing ground between their hands stood with his
head bowed down in humble attitude. The master of the house bade
him draw near and be seated and bespoke him kindly, bidding him
welcome. Then he set before him various kinds of viands, rich and
delicate and delicious, and the Porter, after saying his
Bismillah, fell to and ate his fill, after which he exclaimed,
"Praised be Allah whatso be our case![FN#4]" and, washing his
hands, returned thanks to the company for his entertainment.
Quoth the host, "Thou art welcome and thy day is a blessed. But
what is thy name and calling?" Quoth the other, "O my lord, my
name is Sindbad the Hammal, and I carry folk's goods on my head
for hire." The house-master smiled and rejoined, "Know, O Porter
that thy name is even as mine, for I am Sindbad the Seaman; and
now, O Porter, I would have thee let me hear the couplets thou
recitedst at the gate anon." The Porter was abashed and replied,
"Allah upon thee! Excuse me, for toil and travail and lack of
luck when the hand is empty, teach a man ill manners and boorish
ways." Said the host, "Be not ashamed; thou art become my
brother; but repeat to me the verses, for they pleased me whenas
I heard thee recite them at the gate. Hereupon the Porter
repeated the couplets and they delighted the merchant, who said
to him, "Know, O Hammal, that my story is a wonderful one, and
thou shalt hear all that befel me and all I underwent ere I rose
to this state of prosperity and became the lord of this place
wherein thou seest me; for I came not to this high estate save
after travail sore and perils galore, and how much toil and
trouble have I not suffered in days of yore! I have made seven
voyages, by each of which hangeth a marvellous tale, such as
confoundeth the reason, and all this came to pass by doom of
fortune and fate; for from what destiny doth write there is
neither refuge nor flight. Know, then, good my lords (continued
he) that I am about to relate the



First Voyage of Sindbad the Seaman."[FN#5]



My father was a merchant, one of the notables of my native place,
a monied man and ample of means, who died whilst I was yet a
child, leaving me much wealth in money and lands and farmhouses.
When I grew up, I laid hands on the whole and ate of the best and
drank freely and wore rich clothes and lived lavishly,
companioning and consorting with youths of my own age, and
considering that this course of life would continue for ever and
ken no change. Thus did I for a long time, but at last I awoke
from my heedlessness and, returning to my senses, I found my
wealth had become unwealth and my condition ill-conditioned and
all I once hent had left my hand. And recovering my reason I was
stricken with dismay and confusion and bethought me of a saying
of our lord Solomon, son of David (on whom be peace!), which I
had heard aforetime from my father, "Three things are better than
other three; the day of death is better than the day of birth, a
live dog is better than a dead lion and the grave is better than
want."[FN#6] Then I got together my remains of estates and
property and sold all, even my clothes, for three thousand
dirhams, with which I resolved to travel to foreign parts,
remembering the saying of the poet, 

"By means of toil man shall scale the height; * Who to fame
     aspires mustn't sleep o' night:
Who seeketh pearl in the deep must dive, * Winning weal and
     wealth by his main and might:
And who seeketh Fame without toil and strife * Th' impossible
     seeketh and wasteth life."

So taking heart I bought me goods, merchandise and all needed for
a voyage and, impatient to be at sea, I embarked, with a company
of merchants, on board a ship bound for Bassorah. There we again
embarked and sailed many days and nights, and we passed from isle
to isle and sea to sea and shore to shore, buying and selling and
bartering everywhere the ship touched, and continued our course
till we came to an island as it were a garth of the gardens of
Paradise. Here the captain cast anchor and making fast to the
shore, put out the landing planks. So all on board landed and
made furnaces[FN#7] and lighting fires therein, busied themselves
in various ways, some cooking and some washing, whilst other some
walked about the island for solace, and the crew fell to eating
and drinking and playing and sporting. I was one of the walkers
but, as we were thus engaged, behold the master who was standing
on the gunwale cried out to us at the top of his voice, saying,
"Ho there! passengers, run for your lives and hasten back to the
ship and leave your gear and save yourselves from destruction,
Allah preserve you! For this island whereon ye stand is no true
island, but a great fish stationary a-middlemost of the sea,
whereon the sand hath settled and trees have sprung up of old
time, so that it is become like unto an island;[FN#8] but, when
ye lighted fires on it, it felt the heat and moved; and in a
moment it will sink with you into the sea and ye will all be
drowned. So leave your gear and seek your safety ere ye die!"--
And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her
permitted say.

      When it was the Five Hundred and Thirty-ninth Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when the
ship-master cried to the passengers, "Leave your gear and seek
safety, ere ye die;" all who heard him left gear and goods,
clothes washed and unwashed, fire pots and brass cooking-pots,
and fled back to the ship for their lives, and some reached it
while others (amongst whom was I) did not, for suddenly the
island shook and sank into the abysses of the deep, with all that
were thereon, and the dashing sea surged over it with clashing
waves. I sank with the others down, down into the deep, but
Almighty Allah preserved me from drowning and threw in my way a
great wooden tub of those that had served the ship's company for
tubbing. I gripped it for the sweetness of life and, bestriding
it like one riding, paddled with my feet like oars, whilst the
waves tossed me as in sport right and left. Meanwhile the captain
made sail and departed with those who had reached the ship,
regardless of the drowning and the drowned; and I ceased not
following the vessel with my eyes, till she was hid from sight
and I made sure of death. Darkness closed in upon me while in
this plight and the winds and waves bore me on all that night and
the next day, till the tub brought to with me under the lee of a
lofty island, with trees overhanging the tide. I caught hold of a
branch and by its aid clambered up on to the land, after coming
nigh upon death; but when I reached the shore, I found my legs
cramped and numbed and my feet bore traces of the nibbling of
fish upon their soles; withal I had felt nothing for excess of
anguish and fatigue. I threw myself down on the island ground,
like a dead man, and drowned in desolation swooned away, nor did
I return to my senses till next morning, when the sun rose and
revived me. But I found my feet swollen, so made shift to move by
shuffling on my breech and crawling on my knees, for in that
island were found store of fruits and springs of sweet water. I
ate of the fruits which strengthened me; and thus I abode days
and nights, till my life seemed to return and my spirits began to
revive and I was better able to move about. So, after due
consideration, I fell to exploring the island and diverting
myself with gazing upon all things that Allah Almighty had
created there; and rested under the trees from one of which I cut
me a staff to lean upon. One day as I walked along the marge, I
caught sight of some object in the distance and thought it a wild
beast or one of the monster-creatures of the sea; but, as I drew
near it, looking hard the while, I saw that it was a noble mare,
tethered on the beach. Presently I went up to her, but she cried
out against me with a great cry, so that I trembled for fear and
turned to go away, when there came forth a man from under the
earth and followed me, crying out and saying, "Who and whence art
thou, and what caused thee to come hither?" "O my lord," answered
I, "I am in very sooth, a waif, a stranger, and was left to drown
with sundry others by the ship we voyaged in;[FN#9] but Allah
graciously sent me a wooden tub; so I saved myself thereon and it
floated with me, till the waves cast me up on this island." When
he heard this, he took my hand and saying, "Come with me,"
carried me into a great Sardab, or underground chamber, which was
spacious as a saloon. He made me sit down at its upper end; then
he brought me somewhat of food and, being anhungered, I ate till
I was satisfied and refreshed; and when he had put me at mine
ease he questioned me of myself, and I told him all that had
befallen me from first to last; and, as he wondered at my
adventure, I said, "By Allah, O my lord, excuse me; I have told
thee the truth of my case and the accident which betided me; and
now I desire that thou tell me who thou art and why thou abidest
here under the earth and why thou hast tethered yonder mare on
the brink of the sea." Answered he, "Know, that I am one of the
several who are stationed in different parts of this island, and
we are of the grooms of King Mihrjan[FN#10] and under our hand
are all his horses. Every month, about new-moon tide we bring
hither our best mares which have never been covered, and picket
them on the sea-shore and hide ourselves in this place under the
ground, so that none may espy us. Presently, the stallions of the
sea scent the mares and come up out of the water and seeing no
one, leap the mares and do their will of them. When they have
covered them, they try to drag them away with them, but cannot,
by reason of the leg-ropes; so they cry out at them and butt at
them and kick them, which we hearing, know that the stallions
have dismounted; so we run out and shout at them, whereupon they
are startled and return in fear to the sea. Then the mares
conceive by them and bear colts and fillies worth a mint of
money, nor is their like to be found on earth's face. This is the
time of the coming forth of the sea-stallions; and Inshallah! I
will bear thee to King Mihrjan"--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn
of day and ceased to say her permitted say.

        When it was the Five Hundred and Fortieth Night,

She continued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the
Syce[FN#11] said to Sindbad the Seaman, "I will bear thee to King
Mihrjan and show thee our country. And know that hadst thou not
happened on us thou hadst perished miserably and none had known
of thee: but I will be the means of the saving of thy life and of
thy return to thine own land." I called down blessings on him and
thanked him for his kindness and courtesy; and, while we were yet
talking, behold, the stallion came up out of the sea; and, giving
a great cry, sprang upon the mare and covered her. When he had
done his will of her, he dismounted and would have carried her
away with him, but could not by reason of the tether. She kicked
and cried out at him, whereupon the groom took a sword and
target[FN#12] and ran out of the underground saloon, smiting the
buckler with the blade and calling to his company, who came up
shouting and brandishing spears; and the stallion took fright at
them and plunging into the sea, like a buffalo, disappeared under
the waves.[FN#13] After this we sat awhile, till the rest of the
grooms came up, each leading a mare, and seeing me with their
fellow-Syce, questioned me of my case and I repeated my story to
them. Thereupon they drew near me and spreading the table, ate
and invited me to eat; so I ate with them, after which they took
horse and mounting me on one of the mares, set out with me and
fared on without ceasing, till we came to the capital city of
King Mihrjan, and going in to him acquainted him with my story.
Then he sent for me, and when they set me before him and salams
had been exchanged, he gave me a cordial welcome and wishing me
long life bade me tell him my tale. So I related to him all that
I had seen and all that had befallen me from first to last,
whereat he marvelled and said to me, "By Allah, O my son, thou
hast indeed been miraculously preserved! Were not the term of thy
life a long one, thou hadst not escaped from these straits; but
praised by Allah for safety!" Then he spoke cheerily to me and
entreated me with kindness and consideration: moreover, he made
me his agent for the port and registrar of all ships that entered
the harbour. I attended him regularly, to receive his
commandments, and he favoured me and did me all manner of
kindness and invested me with costly and splendid robes. Indeed,
I was high in credit with him, as an intercessor for the folk and
an intermediary between them and him, when they wanted aught of
him. I abode thus a great while and, as often as I passed through
the city to the port, I questioned the merchants and travellers
and sailors of the city of Baghdad; so haply I might hear of an
occasion to return to my native land, but could find none who
knew it or knew any who resorted thither. At this I was
chagrined, for I was weary of long strangerhood; and my
disappointment endured for a time till one day, going in to King
Mihrjan, I found him with a company of Indians. I saluted them
and they returned my salam; and politely welcomed me and asked me
of my country.--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and
ceased saying her permitted say.

      When it was the Five Hundred and Forty-first Night,

She continued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that
Sindbad the Seaman said:--When they asked me of my country I
questioned them of theirs and they told me that they were of
various castes, some being called Shakiriyah[FN#14] who are the
noblest of their castes and neither oppress nor offer violence to
any, and others Brahmans, a folk who abstain from wine, but live
in delight and solace and merriment and own camels and horses and
cattle. Moreover, they told me that the people of India are
divided into two-and-seventy castes, and I marvelled at this with
exceeding marvel. Amongst other things that I saw in King
Mihrjan's dominions was an island called Kasil,[FN#15] wherin all
night is heard the beating of drums and tabrets; but we were told
by the neighbouring islanders and by travellers that the
inhabitants are people of diligence and judgment.[FN#16] In this
sea I saw also a fish two hundred cubits long and the fishermen
fear it; so they strike together pieces of wood and put it to
flight.[FN#17] I also saw another fish, with a head like that of
an owl, besides many other wonders and rarities, which it would
be tedious to recount. I occupied myself thus in visiting the
islands till, one day, as I stood in the port, with a staff in my
hand, according to my custom, behold, a great ship, wherein were
many merchants, came sailing for the harbour. When it reached the
small inner port where ships anchor under the city, the master
furled his sails and making fast to the shore, put out the
landing-planks, whereupon the crew fell to breaking bulk and
landing cargo whilst I stood by, taking written note of them.
They were long in bringing the goods ashore so I asked the
master, "Is there aught left in thy ship?"; and he answered, "O
my lord, there are divers bales of merchandise in the hold, whose
owner was drowned from amongst us at one of the islands on our
course; so his goods remained in our charge by way of trust and
we purpose to sell them and note their price, that we may convey
it to his people in the city of Baghdad, the Home of Peace."
"What was the merchant's name?" quoth I, and quoth he, "Sindbad
the Seaman;" whereupon I straitly considered him and knowing him,
cried out to him with a great cry, saying, "O captain, I am that
Sindbad the Seaman who travelled with other merchants; and when
the fish heaved and thou calledst to us some saved themselves and
others sank, I being one of them. But Allah Almighty threw in my
way a great tub of wood, of those the crew had used to wash
withal, and the winds and waves carried me to this island, where
by Allah's grace, I fell in with King Mihrjan's grooms and they
brought me hither to the King their master. When I told him my
story, he entreated me with favour and made me his harbour-
master, and I have prospered in his service and found acceptance
with him. These bales, therefore are mine, the goods which God
hath given me."--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and
ceased to say her permitted say.

      When it was the Five Hundred and Forty-second Night,

She continued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when
Sindbad the Seaman said to the captain, "These bales are mine,
the goods which Allah hath given me," the other exclaimed, "There
is no Majesty and there is no Might save in Allah, the Glorious,
the Great! Verily, there is neither conscience nor good faith
left among men!" said I, "O Rais,[FN#18] what mean these words,
seeing that I have told thee my case?" And he answered, "Because
thou heardest me say that I had with me goods whose owner was
drowned, thou thinkest to take them without right; but this is
forbidden by law to thee, for we saw him drown before our eyes,
together with many other passengers, nor was one of them saved.
So how canst thou pretend that thou art the owner of the goods?"
"O captain," said I, "listen to my story and give heed to my
words, and my truth will be manifest to thee; for lying and
leasing are the letter-marks of the hypocrites." Then I recounted
to him all that had befallen me since I sailed from Baghdad with
him to the time when we came to the fish-island where we were
nearly drowned; and I reminded him of certain matters which had
passed between us; whereupon both he and the merchants were
certified at the truth of my story and recognized me and gave me
joy of my deliverance, saying, "By Allah, we thought not that
thou hadst escaped drowning! But the Lord hath granted thee new
life." Then they delivered my bales to me, and I found my name
written thereon, nor was aught thereof lacking. So I opened them
and making up a present for King Mihrjan of the finest and
costliest of the contents, caused the sailors carry it up to the
palace, where I went in to the King and laid my present at his
feet, acquainting him with what had happened, especially
concerning the ship and my goods; whereat he wondered with
exceeding wonder and the truth of all that I had told him was
made manifest to him. His affection for me redoubled after that
and he showed me exceeding honour and bestowed on me a great
present in return for mine. Then I sold my bales and what other
matters I owned making a great profit on them, and bought me
other goods and gear of the growth and fashion of the island-
city. When the merchants were about to start on their homeward
voyage, I embarked on board the ship all that I possessed, and
going in to the King, thanked him for all his favours and
friendship and craved his leave to return to my own land and
friends. He farewelled me and bestowed on me great store of the
country-stuffs and produce; and I took leave of him and embarked.
Then we set sail and fared on nights and days, by the permission
of Allah Almighty; and Fortune served us and Fate favoured us, so
that we arrived in safety at Bassorah-city where I landed
rejoiced at my safe return to my natal soil. After a short stay,
I set out for Baghdad, the House of Peace, with store of goods
and commodities of great price. Reaching the city in due time, I
went straight to my own quarter and entered my house where all my
friends and kinsfolk came to greet me. Then I bought me eunuchs
and concubines, servants and negro slaves till I had a large
establishment, and I bought me houses, and lands and gardens,
till I was richer and in better case than before, and returned to
enjoy the society of my friends and familiars more assiduously
than ever, forgetting all I had suffered of fatigue and hardship
and strangerhood and every peril of travel; and I applied myself
to all manner joys and solaces and delights, eating the dantiest
viands and drinking the deliciousest wines; and my wealth allowed
this state of things to endure. "This, then, is the story of my
first voyage, and to-morrow, Inshallah! I will tell you the tale
of the second of my seven voyages." (Saith he who telleth the
tale), Then Sindbad the Seaman made Sindbad the Landsman sup with
him and bade give him an hundred gold pieces, saying, "Thou hast
cheered us with thy company this day."[FN#19] The Porter thanked
him and, taking the gift, went his way, pondering that which he
had heard and marvelling mightily at what things betide mankind.
He passed the night in his own place and with early morning
repaired to the abode of Sindbad the Seaman, who received him
with honour and seated him by his side. As soon as the rest of
the company was assembled, he set meat and drink before them and,
when they had well eaten and drunken and were merry and in
cheerful case, he took up his discourse and recounted to them in
these words the narrative of



The Second Voyage of Sindbad the Seaman.



Know, O my brother, that I was living a most comfortable and
enjoyable life, in all solace and delight, as I told you
yesterday,--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased
saying her permitted say.

      When it was the Five Hundred and Forty-third Night,

She continued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when
Sindbad the Seaman's guests were all gathered together he thus
bespake them:--I was living a most enjoyable life until one day
my mind became possessed with the thought of travelling about the
world of men and seeing their cities and islands; and a longing
seized me to traffic and to make money by trade. Upon this
resolve I took a great store of cash and, buying goods and gear
fit for travel, bound them up in bales. Then I went down to the
river-bank, where I found a noble ship and brand-new about to
sail, equipped with sails of fine cloth and well manned and
provided; so I took passage in her, with a number of other
merchants, and after embarking our goods we weighed anchor the
same day. Right fair was our voyage and we sailed from place to
place and from isle to isle; and whenever we anchored we met a
crowd of merchants and notables and customers, and we took to
buying and selling and bartering. At last Destiny brought us to
an island, fair and verdant, in trees abundant, with yellow-ripe
fruits luxuriant, and flowers fragrant and birds warbling soft
descant; and streams crystalline and radiant; but no sign of man
showed to the descrier, no, not a blower of the fire.[FN#20] The
captain made fast with us to this island, and the merchants and
sailors landed and walked about, enjoying the shade of the trees
and the song of the birds, that chanted the praises of the One,
the Victorious, and marvelling at the works of the Omnipotent
King.[FN#21] I landed with the rest; and, sitting down by a
spring of sweet water that welled up among the trees, took out
some vivers I had with me and ate of that which Allah Almighty
had allotted unto me. And so sweet was the zephyr and so fragrant
were the flowers, that presently I waxed drowsy and, lying down
in that place, was soon drowned in sleep. When I awoke, I found
myself alone, for the ship had sailed and left me behind, nor had
one of the merchants or sailors bethought himself of me. I seared
the island right and left, but found neither man nor Jinn,
whereat I was beyond measure troubled and my gall was like to
burst for stress of chagrin and anguish and concern, because I
was left quite alone, without aught of wordly gear or meat or
drink, weary and heart-broken. So I gave myself up for lost and
said, "Not always doth the crock escape the shock. I was saved
the first time by finding one who brought me from the desert
island to an inhabited place, but now there is no hope for me."
Then I fell to weeping and wailing and gave myself up to an
access of rage, blaming myself for having again ventured upon the
perils and hardships of voyage, whenas I was at my ease in mine
own house in mine own land, taking my pleasure with good meat and
good drink and good clothes and lacking nothing, neither money
nor goods. And I repented me of having left Baghdad, and this the
more after all the travails and dangers I had undergone in my
first voyage, wherein I had so narrowly escaped destruction, and
exclaimed "Verily we are Allah's and unto Him we are returning!"
I was indeed even as one mad and Jinn-struck and presently I rose
and walked about the island, right and left and every whither,
unable for trouble to sit or tarry in any one place. Then I
climbed a tall tree and looked in all directions, but saw nothing
save sky and sea and trees and birds and isles and sands.
However, after a while my eager glances fell upon some great
white thing, afar off in the interior of the island; so I came
down from the tree and made for that which I had seen; and
behold, it was a huge white dome rising high in air and of vast
compass. I walked all around it, but found no door thereto, nor
could I muster strength or nimbleness by reason of its exceeding
smoothness and slipperiness. So I marked the spot where I stood
and went round about the dome to measure its circumference which
I found fifty good paces. And as I stood, casting about how to
gain an entrance the day being near its fall and the sun being
near the horizon, behold, the sun was suddenly hidden from me and
the air became dull and dark. Methought a cloud had come over the
sun, but it was the season of summer; so I marvelled at this and
lifting my head looked steadfastly at the sky, when I saw that
the cloud was none other than an enormous bird, of gigantic girth
and inordinately wide of wing which, as it flew through the air,
veiled the sun and hid it from the island. At this sight my
wonder redoubled and I remembered a story,--And Shahrazad
perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.

      When it was the Five Hundred and Forty-fourth Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Sindbad the
Seaman continued in these words:--My wonder redoubled and I
remembered a story I had heard aforetime of pilgrims and
travellers, how in a certain island dwelleth a huge bird, called
the "Rukh"[FN#22] which feedeth its young on elephants; and I was
certified that the dome which caught my sight was none other than
a Rukh's egg. As I looked and wondered at the marvellous works of
the Almighty, the bird alighted on the dome and brooded over it
with its wings covering it and its legs stretched out behind it
on the ground, and in this posture it fell asleep, glory be to
Him who sleepeth not! When I saw this, I arose and, unwinding my
turband from my head, doubled it and twisted it into a rope, with
which I girt my middle and bound my waist fast to the legs of the
Rukh, saying in myself, "Peradventure, this bird may carry me to
a land of cities and inhabitants, and that will be better than
abiding in this desert island." I passed the night watching and
fearing to sleep, lest the bird should fly away with me unawares;
and, as soon as the dawn broke and morn shone, the Rukh rose off
its egg and spreading its wings with a great cry flew up into the
air dragging me with it; nor ceased it to soar and to tower till
I thought it had reached the limit of the firmament; after which
it descended, earthwards, little by little, till it lighted on
the top of a high hill. As soon as I found myself on the hard
ground, I made haste to unbind myself, quaking for fear of the
bird, though it took no heed of me nor even felt me; and, loosing
my turband from its feet, I made off with my best speed.
Presently, I saw it catch up in its huge claws something from the
earth and rise with it high in air, and observing it narrowly I
saw it to be a serpent big of bulk and gigantic of girth,
wherewith it flew away clean out of sight. I marvelled at this
and faring forwards found myself on a peak overlooking a valley,
exceeding great and wide and deep, and bounded by vast mountains
that spired high in air: none could descry their summits, for the
excess of their height, nor was any able to climb up thereto.
When I saw this, I blamed myself for that which I had done and
said, "Would Heaven I had tarried in the island! It was better
than this wild desert; for there I had at least fruits to eat and
water to drink, and here are neither trees nor fruits nor
streams. But there is no Majesty and there is no Might save in
Allah, the Glorious, the Great! Verily, as often as I am quit of
one peril, I fall into a worse danger and a more grievous."
However, I took courage and walking along the Wady found that its
soil was of diamond, the stone wherewith they pierce minerals and
precious stones and porcelain and the onyx, for that it is a
dense stone and a dure, whereon neither iron nor hardhead hath
effect, neither can we cut off aught therefrom nor break it, save
by means of leadstone.[FN#23] Moreover, the valley swarmed with
snakes and vipers, each big as a palm tree, that would have made
but one gulp of an elephant; and they came out by night, hiding
during the day, lest the Rukhs and eagles pounce on them and tear
them to pieces, as was their wont, why I wot not. And I repented
of what I had done and said, "By Allah, I have made haste to
bring destruction upon myself!" The day began to wane as I went
along and I looked about for a place where I might pass the
night, being in fear of the serpents; and I took no thought of
meat and drink in my concern for my life. Presently, I caught
sight of a cave nearhand, with a narrow doorway; so I entered and
seeing a great stone close to the mouth, I rolled it up and
stopped the entrance, saying to myself, "I am safe here for the
night; and as soon as it is day, I will go forth and see what
destiny will do." Then I looked within the cave and saw to the
upper end a great serpent brooding on her eggs, at which my flesh
quaked and my hair stood on end; but I raised my eyes to Heaven
and, committing my case to fate and lot, abode all that night
without sleep till daybreak, when I rolled back the stone from
the mouth of the cave and went forth, staggering like a drunken
man and giddy with watching and fear and hunger. As in this sore
case I walked along the valley, behold, there fell down before me
a slaughtered beast; but I saw no one, whereat I marvelled with
great marvel and presently remembered a story I had heard
aforetime of traders and pilgrims and travellers; how the
mountains where are the diamonds are full of perils and terrors,
nor can any fare through them; but the merchants who traffic in
diamonds have a device by which they obtain them, that is to say,
they take a sheep and slaughter and skin it and cut it in pieces
and cast them down from the mountain-tops into the valley-sole,
where the meat being fresh and sticky with blood, some of the
gems cleave to it. There they leave it till mid-day, when the
eagles and vultures swoop down upon it and carry it in their
claws to the mountain-summits, whereupon the merchants come and
shout at them and scare them away from the meat. Then they come
and, taking the diamonds which they find sticking to it, go their
ways with them and leave the meat to the birds and beasts; nor
can any come at the diamonds but by this device,--And Shahrazad
perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.

      When it was the Five Hundred and Forty-fifth Night,

She said, it hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Sindbad the
Seaman continued his relation of what befel him in the Mountain
of Diamonds, and informed them that the merchants cannot come at
the diamonds save by the device aforesaid. So, when I saw the
slaughtered beast fall (he pursued) and bethought me of the
story, I went up to it and filled my pockets and shawl-girdle and
turband and the folds of my clothes with the choicest diamonds;
and, as I was thus engaged, down fell before me another great
piece of meat. Then with my unrolled turband and lying on my
back, I set the bit on my breast so that I was hidden by the
meat, which was thus raised above the ground. Hardly had I
gripped it, when an eagle swooped down upon the flesh and,
seizing it with his talons, flew up with it high in air and me
clinging thereto, and ceased not its flight till it alighted on
the head of one of the mountains where, dropping the carcass he
fell to rending it; but, behold, there arose behind him a great
noise of shouting and clattering of wood, whereat the bird took
fright and flew away. Then I loosed off myself the meat, with
clothes daubed with blood therefrom, and stood up by its side;
whereupon up came the merchant, who had cried out at the eagle,
and seeing me standing there, bespoke me not, but was affrighted
at me and shook with fear. However, he went up to the carcass and
turning it over, found no diamonds sticking to it, whereat he
gave a great cry and exclaimed, "Harrow, my disappointment! There
is no Majesty and there is no Might save in Allah with whom we
seek refuge from Satan the stoned!" And he bemoaned himself and
beat hand upon hand, saying, "Alas, the pity of it! How cometh
this?" Then I went up to him and he said to me, "Who art thou and
what causeth thee to come hither?" And I, "Fear not, I am a man
and a good man and a merchant. My story is a wondrous and my
adventures marvellous and the manner of my coming hither is
prodigious. So be of good cheer, thou shalt receive of me what
shall rejoice thee, for I have with me great plenty of diamonds
and I will give thee thereof what shall suffice thee; for each is
better than aught thou couldst get otherwise. So fear nothing."
The man rejoiced thereat and thanked and blessed me; then we
talked together till the other merchants, hearing me in discourse
with their fellow, came up and saluted me; for each of them had
thrown down his piece of meat. And as I went off with them I told
them my whole story, how I had suffered hardships at sea and the
fashion of my reaching the valley. But I gave the owner of the
meat a number of the stones I had by me, so they all wished me
joy of my escape, saying, "By Allah a new life hath been decreed
to thee, for none ever reached yonder valley and came off thence
alive before thee; but praised be Allah for thy safety!" We
passed the night together in a safe and pleasant place, beyond
measure rejoiced at my deliverance from the Valley of Serpents
and my arrival in an inhabited land; and on the morrow we set out
and journeyed over the mighty range of mountains, seeing many
serpents in the valley, till we came to a fair great island,
wherein was a garden of huge camphor trees under each of which an
hundred men might take shelter. When the folk have a mind to get
camphor, they bore into the upper part of the bole with a long
iron; whereupon the liquid camphor, which is the sap of the tree,
floweth out and they catch it in vessels, where it concreteth
like gum; but, after this, the tree dieth and becometh
firewood.[FN#24] Moreover, there is in this island a kind of wild
beast, called "Rhinoceros,"[FN#25] that pastureth as do steers
and buffalos with us; but it is a huge brute, bigger of body than
the camel and like it feedeth upon the leaves and twigs of trees.
It is a remarkable animal with a great and thick horn, ten cubits
long, amiddleward its head; wherein, when cleft in twain, is the
likeness of a man. Voyagers and pilgrims and travellers declare
that this beast called "Karkadan" will carry off a great elephant
on its horn and graze about the island and the sea-coast
therewith and take no heed of it, till the elephant dieth and its
fat, melting in the sun, runneth down into the rhinoceros's eyes
and blindeth him, so that he lieth down on the shore. Then comes
the bird Rukh and carrieth off both the rhinoceros's eyes and
blindeth him, so that he lieth down on the shore. Then comes the
bird Rukh and carrieth off both the rhinoceros and that which is
on its horn to feed its young withal. Moreover, I saw in this
island many kinds of oxen and buffalos, whose like are not found
in our country. Here I sold some of the diamonds which I had by
me for gold dinars and silver dirhams and bartered others for the
produce of the country; and, loading them upon beasts of burden,
fared on with the merchants from valley to valley and town to
town, buying and selling and viewing foreign countries and the
works and creatures of Allah, till we came to Bassorah-city,
where we abode a few days, after which I continued my journey to
Baghdad.--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to
say her permitted say.

      When it was the Five Hundred and Forty-sixth Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when
Sindbad the Seaman returned from his travel to Baghdad, the House
of Peace, he arrived at home with great store of diamonds and
money and goods. (Continued he) I foregathered with my friends
and relations and gave alms and largesse and bestowed curious
gifts and made presents to all my friends and companions. Then I
betook myself to eating well and drinking well and wearing fine
clothes and making merry with my fellows, and forgot all my
sufferings in the pleasures of return to the solace and delight
of life, with light heart and broadened breast. And every one who
heard of my return came and questioned me of my adventures and of
foreign countries, and I related to them all that had befallen
me, and the much I had suffered, whereat they wondered and gave
me joy of my safe return. "This, then is the end of the story of
my second voyage; and to-morrow, Inshallah! I will tell you what
befel me in my third voyage." The company marvelled at his story
and supped with him; after which he ordered an hundred dinars of
gold to be given to the Porter, who took the sum with many thanks
and blessings (which he stinted not even when he reached home)
and went his way, wondering at what he had heard. Next morning as
soon as day came in its sheen and shone, he rose and praying the
dawn-prayer, repaired to the house of Sindbad the Seaman, even as
he had bidden him, and went in and gave him good-morrow. The
merchant welcomed him and made him sit with him, till the rest of
the company arrived; and when they had well eaten and drunken and
were merry with joy and jollity, their host began by saying,
"Hearken, O my brothers, to what I am about to tell you; for it
is even more wondrous than what you have already heard; but Allah
alone kenneth what things His Omniscience concealed from man! And
listen to



The Third Voyage of Sindbad the Seaman.



As I told you yesterday, I returned from my second voyage
overjoyed at my safety and with great increase of wealth, Allah
having requited me all that I had wasted and lost, and I abode
awhile in Baghdad-city savouring the utmost ease and prosperity
and comfort and happiness, till the carnal man was once more
seized with longing for travel and diversion and adventure, and
yearned after traffic and lucre and emolument, for that the human
heart is naturally prone to evil. So making up my mind I laid in
great plenty of goods suitable for a sea-voyage and repairing to
Bassorah, went down to the shore and found there a fine ship
ready to sail, with a full crew and a numerous company of
merchants, men of worth and substance; faith, piety and
consideration. I embarked with them and we set sail on the
blessing of Allah Almighty and on His aidance and His favour to
bring our voyage to a safe and prosperous issue and already we
congratulated one another on our good fortune and boon voyage. We
fared on from sea to sea and from island to island and city to
city, in all delight and contentment, buying and selling wherever
we touched, and taking our solace and our pleasure, till one day
when, as we sailed athwart the dashing sea, swollen with clashing
billows, behold, the master (who stood on the gunwale examining
the ocean in all directions) cried out with a great cry, and
buffeted his face and pluckt out his beard and rent his raiment,
and bade furl the sail and cast the anchors. So we said to him,
"O Rais, what is the matter?" "Know, O my brethren (Allah
preserve you!), that the wind hath gotten the better of us and
hath driven us out of our course into mid-ocean, and destiny, for
our ill luck, hath brought us to the Mountain of the Zughb, a
hairy folk like apes,[FN#26] among whom no man ever fell and came
forth alive; and my heart presageth that we all be dead men."
Hardly had the master made an end of his speech when the apes
were upon us. They surrounded the ship on all sides swarming like
locusts and crowding the shore. They were the most frightful of
wild creatures, covered with black hair like felt, foul of favour
and small of stature, being but four spans high, yellow-eyed and
black-faced; none knoweth their language nor what they are, and
they shun the company of men. We feared to slay them or strike
them or drive them away, because of their inconceivable
multitude; lest, if we hurt one, the rest fall on us and slay us,
for numbers prevail over courage; so we let them do their will,
albeit we feared they would plunder our goods and gear. They
swarmed up the cables and gnawed them asunder, and on like wise
they did with all the ropes of the ship, so that it fell off from
the wind and stranded upon their mountainous coast. Then they
laid hands on all the merchants and crew, and landing us on the
island, made off with the ship and its cargo and went their ways,
we wot not whither. We were thus left on the island, eating of
its fruits and pot-herbs and drinking of its streams till, one
day, we espied in its midst what seemed an inhabited house. So we
made for it as fast as our feet could carry us and behold, it was
a castle strong and tall, compassed about with a lofty wall, and
having a two-leaved gate of ebony-wood both of which leaves open
stood. We entered and found within a space wide and bare like a
great square, round which stood many high doors open thrown, and
at the farther end a long bench of stone and brasiers, with
cooking gear hanging thereon and about it great plenty of bones;
but we saw no one and marvelled thereat with exceeding wonder.
Then we sat down in the courtyard a little while and presently
falling asleep, slept from the forenoon till sundown, when lo!
the earth trembled under our feet and the air rumbled with a
terrible tone. Then there came down upon us, from the top of the
castle, a huge creature in the likeness of a man, black of
colour, tall and big of bulk, as he were a great date-tree, with
eyes like coals of fire and eye-teeth like boar's tusks and a
vast big gape like the mouth of a well. Moreover, he had long
loose lips like camel's, hanging down upon his breast and ears
like two Jarms[FN#27] falling over his shoulder-blades and the
nails of his hands were like the claws of a lion.[FN#28] When we
saw this frightful giant, we were like to faint and every moment
increased our fear and terror; and we became as dead men for
excess of horror and affright.--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn
of day and ceased saying her permitted say.

     When it was the Five Hundred and Forty-seventh Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Sindbad the
Seaman continued:--When we saw this frightful giant we were
struck with exceeding terror and horror. And after trampling upon
the earth, he sat awhile on the bench; then he arose and coming
to us seized me by the arm choosing me out from among my comrades
the merchants. He took me up in his hand and turning me over felt
me, as a butcher feeleth a sheep he is about to slaughter, and I
but a little mouthful in his hands; but finding me lean and
fleshless for stress of toil and trouble and weariness, let me go
and took up another, whom in like manner he turned over and felt
and let go; nor did he cease to feel and turn over the rest of
us, one after another, till he came to the master of the ship.
Now he was a sturdy, stout, broad-shouldered wight, fat and in
full vigour; so he pleased the giant, who seized him, as a
butcher seizeth a beast, and throwing him down, set his foot on
his neck and brake it; after which he fetched a long spit and
thrusting it up his backside, brought it forth of the crown of
his head. Then, lighting a fierce fire, he set over it the spit
with the Rais thereon, and turned it over the coals, till the
flesh was roasted, when he took the spit off the fire and set it
like a Kabab-stick before him. Then he tare the body, limb from
limb, as one jointeth a chicken and, rending the flesh with his
nails, fell to eating of it and gnawing the bones, till there was
nothing left but some of these, which he threw on one side of the
wall. This done, he sat for a while; then he lay down on the
stone-bench and fell asleep, snarking and snoring like the
gurgling of a lamb or a cow with its throat cut; nor did he awake
till morning, when he rose and fared forth and went his ways. As
soon as we were certified that he was gone, we began to talk with
one another, weeping and bemoaning ourselves for the risk we ran,
and saying, "Would Heaven we had been drowned in the sea or that
the apes had eaten us! That were better than to be roasted over
the coals; by Allah, this is a vile, foul death! But whatso the
Lord willeth must come to pass and there is no Majesty and there
is no Might, save in Him, the Glorious, the Great! We shall
assuredly perish miserably and none will know of us; as there is
no escape for us from this place." Then we arose and roamed about
the island, hoping that haply we might find a place to hide us in
or a means of flight, for indeed death was a light matter to us,
provided we were not roasted over the fire[FN#29] and eaten.
However, we could find no hiding-place and the evening overtook
us; so, of the excess of our terror, we returned to the castle
and sat down awhile. Presently, the earth trembled under our feet
and the black ogre came up to us and turning us over, felt one
after other, till he found a man to his liking, whom he took and
served as he had done the captain, killing and roasting and
eating him: after which he lay down on the bench[FN#30] and slept
all night, snarking and snoring like a beast with its throat cut,
till daybreak, when he arose and went out as before. Then we drew
together and conversed and said one to other, "By Allah, we had
better throw ourselves into the sea and be drowned than die
roasted; for this is an abominable death!" Quoth one of us, "Hear
ye my words! let us cast about to kill him, and be at peace from
the grief of him and rid the Moslems of his barbarity and
tyranny." Then said I, "Hear me, O my brothers; if there is
nothing for it but to slay him, let us carry some of this
firewood and planks down to the sea-shore and make us a boat
wherein, if we succeed in slaughtering him, we may either embark
and let the waters carry us whither Allah willeth, or else abide
here till some ship pass, when we will take passage in it. If we
fail to kill him, we will embark in the boat and put out to sea;
and if we be drowned, we shall at least escape being roasted over
a kitchen fire with sliced weasands; whilst, if we escape, we
escape, and if we be drowned, we die martyrs." "By Allah," said
they all, "this rede is a right;" and we agreed upon this, and
set about carrying it out. So we haled down to the beach the
pieces of wood which lay about the bench; and, making a boat,
moored it to the strand, after which we stowed therein somewhat
of victual and returned to the castle. As soon as evening fell
the earth trembled under our feet and in came the blackamoor upon
us, snarling like a dog about to bite. He came up to us and
feeling us and turning us over one by one, took one of us and did
with him as he had done before and ate him, after which he lay
down on the bench and snored and snorted like thunder. As soon as
we were assured that he slept, we arose and taking two iron spits
of those standing there, heated them in the fiercest of the fire,
till they were red-hot, like burning coals, when we gripped fast
hold of them and going up to the giant, as he lay snoring on the
bench, thrust them into his eyes and pressed upon them, all of
us, with our united might, so that his eyeballs burst and he
became stone blind. Thereupon he cried with a great cry, whereat
our hearts trembled, and springing up from the bench, he fell a-
groping after us, blind-fold. We fled from him right and left and
he saw us not, for his sight was altogether blent; but we were in
terrible fear of him and made sure we were dead men despairing of
escape. Then he found the door, feeling for it with his hands and
went out roaring aloud; and behold, the earth shook under us, for
the noise of his roaring, and we quaked for fear. As he quitted
the castle we followed him and betook ourselves to the place
where we had moored our boat, saying to one another, "If this
accursed abide absent till the going down of the sun and come not
to the castle, we shall know that he is dead; and if he come
back, we will embark in the boat and paddle till we escape,
committing our affair to Allah." But, as we spoke, behold, up
came the blackamoor with other two as they were Ghuls, fouler and
more frightful than he, with eyes like red-hot coals; which when
we saw, we hurried into the boat and casting off the moorings
paddled away and pushed out to sea.[FN#31] As soon as the ogres
caught sight of us, they cried out at us and running down to the
sea-shore, fell a-pelting us with rocks, whereof some fell
amongst us and others fell into the sea. We paddled with all our
might till we were beyond their reach, but the most part of us
were slain by the rock-throwing, and the winds and waves sported
with us and carried us into the midst of the dashing sea, swollen
with billows clashing. We knew not whither we went and my fellows
died one after another, till there remained but three, myself and
two others;--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased
to say her permitted say.

      When it was the Five Hundred and Forty-eighth Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Sindbad the
Seaman thus continued:--Most part of us were slain by the rock-
thowing and only three of us remained on board the boat for, as
often as one died, we threw him into the sea. We were sore
exhausted for stress of hunger, but we took courage and heartened
one another and worked for dear life and paddled with main and
might, till the winds cast us upon an island, as we were dead men
for fatigue and fear and famine. We landed on the island and
walked about it for a while, finding that it abounded in trees
and streams and birds; and we ate of the fruits and rejoiced in
our escape from the black and our deliverance from the perils of
the sea; and thus we did till nightfall, when we lay down and
fell asleep for excess of fatigue. But we had hardly closed our
eyes before we were aroused by a hissing sound like the sough of
wind, and awaking, saw a serpent like a dragon, a seld-seen
sight, of monstrous make and belly of enormous bulk which lay in
a circle around us. Presently it reared its head and, seizing one
of my companions, swallowed him up to his shoulders; then it
gulped down the rest of him, and we heard his ribs crack in its
belly. Presently it went its way, and we abode in sore amazement
and grief for our comrade and mortal fear for ourselves, saying,
"By Allah, this is a marvellous thing! Each kind of death that
threatened us is more terrible than the last. We were rejoicing
in our escape from the black ogre and our deliverance from the
perils of the sea; but now we have fallen into that which is
worse. There is no Majesty and there is no Might save in Allah!
By the Almighty, we have escaped from the blackamoor and from
drowning: but how shall we escape from this abominable and
viperish monster?" Then we walked about the island, eating of its
fruits and drinking of its streams till dusk, when we climbed up
into a high tree and went to sleep there, I being on the topmost
bough. As soon as it was dark night, up came the serpent, looking
right and left; and, making for the tree whereon we were, climbed
up to my comrade and swallowed him down to his shoulders. Then it
coiled about the bole[FN#32] with him, whilst I, who could not
take my eyes off the sight, heard his bones crack in its belly,
and it swallowed him whole, after which it slid down from the
tree. When the day broke and the light showed me that the serpent
was gone, I came down, as I were a dead man for stress of fear
and anguish, and thought to cast myself into the sea and be at
rest from the woes of the world; but could not bring myself to
this, for verily life is dear. So I took five pieces of wood,
broad and long, and bound one crosswise to the soles of my feet
and others in like fashion on my right and left sides and over my
breast; and the broadest and largest I bound across my head and
made them fast with ropes. Then I lay down on the ground on my
back, so that I was completely fenced in by the pieces of wood,
which enclosed me like a bier.[FN#33] So as soon as it was dark,
up came the serpent, as usual, and made towards me, but could not
get at me to swallow me for the wood that fenced me in. So it
wriggled round me on every side, whilst I looked on, like one
dead by reason of my terror; and every now and then it would
glide away and come back; but as often as it tried to come at me,
it was hindered by the pieces of wood wherewith I had bound
myself on every side. It ceased not to beset me thus from sundown
till dawn, but when the light of day shone upon the beast it made
off, in the utmost fury and extreme disappointment. Then I put
out my hand and unbound myself, well-nigh down among the dead men
for fear and suffering; and went down to the island-shore, whence
a ship afar off in the midst of the waves suddenly struck my
sight. So I tore off a great branch of a tree and made signs with
it to the crew, shouting out the while; which when the ship's
company saw they said to another, "We must stand in and see what
this is; peradventure 'tis a man." So they made for the island
and presently heard my cries, whereupon they took me on board and
questioned me of my case. I told them all my adventures from
first to last, whereat they marvelled mightily and covered my
shame[FN#34] with some of their clothes. Moreover, they set
before me somewhat of food and I ate my fill and I drank cold
sweet water and was mightily refreshed; and Allah Almighty
quickened me after I was virtually dead. So I praised the Most
Highest and thanked Him for His favours and exceeding mercies,
and my heart revived in me after utter despair, till meseemed as
if all I had suffered were but a dream I had dreamed. We sailed
on with a fair wind the Almighty sent us till we came to an
island, called Al-Salahitah,[FN#35] which aboundeth in sandal-
wood when the captain cast anchor,--And Shahrazad perceived the
dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.

      When it was the Five Hundred and Forty-ninth Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Sindbad the
Seaman continued:--And when we had cast anchor, the merchants and
the sailors landed with their goods to sell and to buy. Then the
captain turned to me and said, "Hark'ee, thou art a stranger and
a pauper and tellest us that thou hast undergone frightful
hardship; wherefore I have a mind to benefit thee with somewhat
that may further thee to thy native land, so thou wilt ever bless
me and pray for me." "So be it," answered I; "thou shalt have my
prayers." Quoth he, "Know then that there was with us a man, a
traveller, whom we lost, and we know not if he be alive or dead,
for we had no news of him; so I purpose to commit his bales of
goods to thy charge, that thou mayst sell them in this island. A
part of the proceeds we will give thee as an equivalent for thy
pains and service, and the rest we will keep till we return to
Baghdad, where we will enquire for his family and deliver it to
them, together with the unsold goods. Say me then, wilt thou
undertake the charge and land and sell them as other merchants
do?" I replied "Hearkening and obedience to thee, O my lord; and
great is thy kindness to me," and thanked him; whereupon he bade
the sailors and porters bear the bales in question ashore and
commit them to my charge. The ship's scribe asked him, "O master,
what bales are these and what merchant's name shall I write upon
them?"; and he answered, "Write on them the name of Sindbad the
Seaman, him who was with us in the ship and whom we lost at the
Rukh's island, and of whom we have no tidings; for we mean this
stranger to sell them; and we will give him a part of the price
for his pains and keep the rest till we return to Baghdad where,
if we find the owner we will make it over to him, and if not, to
his family." And the clerk said, "Thy words are apposite and thy
rede is right." Now when I heard the captain give orders for the
bales to be inscribed with my name, I said to myself, "By Allah,
I am Sindbad the Seaman!" So I armed myself with courage and
patience and waited till all the merchants had landed and were
gathered together, talking and chaffering about buying and
selling; then I went up to the captain and asked him, "O my lord,
knowest thou what manner of man was this Sindbad, whose goods
thou hast committed to me for sale?"; and he answered, "I know of
him naught save that he was a man from Baghdad-city, Sindbad
hight the Seaman, who was drowned with many others when we lay
anchored at such an island and I have heard nothing of him since
then." At this I cried out with a great cry and said, "O captain,
whom Allah keep! know that I am that Sindbad the Seaman and that
I was not drowned, but when thou castest anchor at the island, I
landed with the rest of the merchants and crew; and I sat down in
a pleasant place by myself and ate somewhat of food I had with me
and enjoyed myself till I became drowsy and was drowned in sleep;
and when I awoke, I found no ship and none near me. These goods
are my goods and these bales are my bales; and all the merchants
who fetch jewels from the Valley of Diamonds saw me there and
will bear me witness that I am the very Sindbad the Seaman; for I
related to them everything that had befallen me and told them how
you forgot me and left me sleeping on the island, and that
betided me which betided me." When the passengers and crew heard
my words, they gathered about me and some of them believed me and
others disbelieved; but presently, behold, one of the merchants,
hearing me mention the Valley of Diamonds, came up to me and said
to them, "Hear what I say, good people! When I related to you the
most wonderful thing in my travels, and I told you that, at the
time we cast down our slaughtered animals into the Valley of
Serpents (I casting with the rest as was my wont), there came up
a man hanging to mine, ye believed me not and gave me the lie."
"Yes," quoth they, "thou didst tell us some such tale, but we had
no call to credit thee." He resumed, "Now this is the very man,
by token that he gave me diamonds of great value, and high price
whose like are not to be found, requiting me more than would have
come up sticking to my quarter of meat; and I companied with him
to Bassorah-city, where he took leave of us and went on to his
native stead, whilst we returned to our own land. This is he; and
he told us his name, Sindbad the Seaman, and how the ship left
him on the desert island. And know ye that Allah hath sent him
hither, so might the truth of my story be made manifest to you.
Moreover, these are his goods for, when he first foregathered
with us, he told us of them; and the truth of his words is
patent." Hearing the merchant's speech the captain came up to me
and considered me straitly awhile, after which he said, "What was
the mark on thy bales?" "Thus and thus," answered I, and reminded
him of somewhat that had passed between him and me, when I
shipped with him from Bassorah. Thereupon he was convinced that I
was indeed Sindbad the Seaman and took me round the neck and gave
me joy of my safety, saying, "By Allah, O my lord, thy case is
indeed wondrous and thy tale marvellous; but lauded be Allah who
hath brought thee and me together again, and who hath restored to
thee thy goods and gear!"--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of
day and ceased to say her permitted say.

        When it was the Five Hundred and Fiftieth Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Sindbad the
Seaman thus continued:--"Alhamdolillah!" quoth the captain,
"lauded be Allah who hath restored unto thee thy goods and gear."
Then I disposed of my merchandise to the best of my skill, and
profited largely on them whereat I rejoiced with exceeding joy
and congratulated myself on my safety and the recovery of my
goods. We ceased not to buy and sell at the several islands till
we came to the land of Hind, where we bought cloves and ginger
and all manner spices; and thence we fared on to the land of
Sind, where also we bought and sold. In these Indian seas, I saw
wonders without number or count, amongst others a fish like a cow
which bringeth forth its young and suckleth them like human
beings; and of its skin bucklers are made.[FN#36] There were eke
fishes like asses and camels[FN#37] and tortoises twenty cubits
wide.[FN#38] And I saw also a bird that cometh out of a sea-shell
and layeth eggs and hatcheth her chicks on the surface of the
water, never coming up from the sea to the land.[FN#39] Then we
set sail again with a fair wind and the blessing of Almighty
Allah; and, after a prosperous voyage, arrived safe and sound at
Bassorah. Here I abode a few days and presently returned to
Baghdad where I went at once to my quarter and my house and
saluted my family and familiars and friends. I had gained on this
voyage what was beyond count and reckoning, so I gave alms and
largesse and clad the widow and the orphan, by way of
thanksgiving for my happy return, and fell to feasting and making
merry with my companions and intimates and forgot, while eating
well and drinking well and dressing well, everything that had
befallen me and all the perils and hardships I had suffered.
"These, then, are the most admirable things I sighted on my third
voyage, and to-morrow, an it be the will of Allah, you shall come
to me and I will relate the adventures of my fourth voyage, which
is still more wonderful than those you have already heard."
(Saith he who telleth the tale), Then Sindbad the Seaman bade
give Sindbad the Landsman an hundred golden dinars as of wont and
called for food. So they spread the tables and the company ate
the night-meal and went their ways, marvelling at the tale they
had heard. The Porter after taking his gold passed the night in
his own house, also wondering at what his namesake the Seaman had
told him, and as soon as day broke and the morning showed with
its sheen and shone, he rose and praying the dawn-prayer betook
himself to Sindbad the Seaman, who returned his salute and
received him with an open breast and cheerful favour and made him
sit with him till the rest of the company arrived, when he caused
set on food and they ate and drank and made merry. Then Sindbad
the Seaman bespake them and related to them the narrative of




The Fourth Voyage of Sindbad the Seaman.



Know, O my brethren that after my return from my third voyage and
foregathering with my friends, and forgetting all my perils and
hardships in the enjoyment of ease and comfort and repose, I was
visited one day by a company of merchants who sat down with me
and talked of foreign travel and traffic, till the old bad man
within me yearned to go with them and enjoy the sight of strange
countries, and I longed for the society of the various races of
mankind and for traffic and profit. So I resolved to travel with
them and buying the necessaries for a long voyage, and great
store of costly goods, more than ever before, transported them
from Baghdad to Bassorah where I took ship with the merchants in
question, who were of the chief of the town. We set out, trusting
in the blessing of Almighty Allah; and with a favouring breeze
and the best conditions we sailed from island to island and sea
to sea, till, one day, there arose against us a contrary wind and
the captain cast out his anchors and brought the ship to a
standsill, fearing lest she should founder in mid-ocean. Then we
all fell to prayer and humbling ourselves before the Most High;
but, as we were thus engaged there smote us a furious squall
which tore the sails to rags and tatters: the anchor-cable parted
and, the ship foundering, we were cast into the sea, goods and
all. I kept myself afloat by swimming half the day, till, when I
had given myself up for lost, the Almighty threw in my way one of
the planks of the ship, whereon I and some others of the
merchants scrambled.--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and
ceased saying her permitted say.

      When it was the Five Hundred and Fifty-first Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Sindbad the
Seaman continued as follows:--And when the ship foundered I
scrambled on to a plank with some others of the merchants and,
mounting it as we would a horse, paddled with our feet in the
sea. We abode thus a day and a night, the wind and waves helping
us on, and on the second day shortly before the mid-time between
sunrise and noon[FN#40] the breeze freshened and the sea wrought
and the rising waves cast us upon an island, well-nigh dead
bodies for weariness and want of sleep, cold and hunger and fear
and thirst. We walked about the shore and found abundance of
herbs, whereof we ate enough to keep breath in body and to stay
our failing spirits, then lay down and slept till morning hard by
the sea. And when morning came with its sheen and shone, we arose
and walked about the island to the right and left, till we came
in sight of an inhabited house afar off. So we made towards it,
and ceased not walking till we reached the door thereof when lo!
a number of naked men issued from it and without saluting us or a
word said, laid hold of us masterfully and carried us to their
king, who signed us to sit. So we sat down and they set food
before us such as we knew not[FN#41] and whose like we had never
seen in all our lives. My companions ate of it, for stress of
hunger, but my stomach revolted from it and I would not eat; and
my refraining from it was, by Allah's favour, the cause of my
being alive till now: for no sooner had my comrades tasted of it
than their reason fled and their condition changed and they began
to devour it like madmen possessed of an evil spirit. Then the
savages gave them to drink of cocoa-nut oil and anointed them
therewith; and straightway after drinking thereof, their eyes
turned into their heads and they fell to eating greedily, against
their wont. When I saw this, I was confounded and concerned for
them, nor was I less anxious about myself, for fear of the naked
folk. So I watched them narrowly, and it was not long before I
discovered them to be a tribe of Magian cannibals whose King was
a Ghul.[FN#42] All who came to their country or whoso they caught
in their valleys or on their roads they brought to this King and
fed them upon that food and anointed them with that oil,
whereupon their stomachs dilated that they might eat largely,
whilst their reason fled and they lost the power of thought and
became idiots. Then they stuffed them with cocoa-nut oil and the
aforesaid food, till they became fat and gross, when they
slaughtered them by cutting their throats and roasted them for
the King's eating; but, as for the savages themselves, they ate
human flesh raw.[FN#43] When I saw this, I was sore dismayed for
myself and my comrades, who were now become so stupefied that
they knew not what was done with them and the naked folk
committed them to one who used every day to lead them out and
pasture them on the island like cattle. And they wandered amongst
the trees and rested at will, thus waxing very fat. As for me, I
wasted away and became sickly for fear and hunger and my flesh
shrivelled on my bones; which when the savages saw, they left me
alone and took no thought of me and so far forgot me that one day
I gave them the slip and walking out of their place made for the
beach which was distant and there espied a very old man seated on
a high place, girt by the waters. I looked at him and knew him
for the herdsman, who had charge of pasturing my fellows, and
with him were many others in like case. As soon as he saw me, he
knew me to be in possession of my reason and not afflicted like
the rest whom he was pasturing; so signed to me from afar, as who
should say, "Turn back and take the right-hand road, for that
will lead thee into the King's highway." So I turned back, as he
bade me, and followed the right-hand road, now running for fear
and then walking leisurely to rest me, till I was out of the old
man's sight. By this time, the sun had gone down and the darkness
set in; so I sat down to rest and would have slept, but sleep
came not to me that night, for stress of fear and famine and
fatigue. When the night was half spent, I rose and walked on,
till the day broke in all its beauty and the sun rose over the
heads of the lofty hills and athwart the low gravelly plains. Now
I was weary and hungry and thirsty; so I ate my fill of herbs and
grasses that grew in the island and kept life in body and stayed
my stomach, after which I set out again and fared on all that day
and the next night, staying my greed with roots and herbs; nor
did I cease walking for seven days and their nights, till the
morn of the eighth day, when I caught sight of a faint object in
the distance. So I made towards it, though my heart quaked for
all I had suffered first and last, and behold it was a company of
men gathering pepper-grains.[FN#44] As soon as they saw me, they
hastened up to me and surrounding me on all sides, said to me,
"Who art thou and whence come?" I replied, "Know, O folk, that I
am a poor stranger," and acquainted them with my case and all the
hardships and perils I had suffered,--And Shahrazad perceived the
dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.

      When it was the Five Hundred and Fifty-second Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Sindbad the
Seaman continued:--And the men gathering pepper in the island
questioned me of my case, when I acquainted them with all the
hardships and perils I had suffered and how I had fled from the
savages; whereat they marvelled and gave me joy of my safety,
saying, "By Allah, this is wonderful! But how didst thou escape
from these blacks who swarm in the island and devour all who fall
in with them; nor is any safe from them, nor can any get out of
their clutches?" And after I had told them the fate of my
companions, they made me sit by them, till they got quit of their
work; and fetched me somewhat of good food, which I ate, for I
was hungry, and rested awhile, after which they took ship with me
and carrying me to their island-home brought me before their
King, who returned my salute and received me honourably and
questioned me of my case. I told him all that had befallen me,
from the day of my leaving Baghdad-city, whereupon he wondered
with great wonder at my adventures, he and his courtiers, and
bade me sit by him; then he called for food and I ate with him
what sufficed me and washed my hands and returned thanks to
Almighty Allah for all His favours praising Him and glorifying
Him. Then I left the King and walked for solace about the city,
which I found wealthy and populous, abounding in market-streets
well stocked with food and merchandise and full of buyers and
sellers. So I rejoiced at having reached so pleasant a place and
took my ease there after my fatigues; and I made friends with the
townsfolk, nor was it long before I became more in honour and
favour with them and their King than any of the chief men of the
realm. Now I saw that all the citizens, great and small, rode
fine horses, high-priced and thorough-bred, without saddles or
housings, whereat I wondered and said to the King, "Wherefore, O
my lord, dost thou not ride with a saddle? Therein is ease for
the rider and increase of power." "What is a saddle?" asked he:
"I never saw nor used such a thing in all my life;" and I
answered, "With thy permission I will make thee a saddle, that
thou mayest ride on it and see the comfort thereof." And quoth
he, "Do so." So quoth I to him, "Furnish me with some wood,"
which being brought, I sought me a clever carpenter and sitting
by him showed him how to make the saddle-tree, portraying for him
the fashion thereof in ink on the wood. Then I took wool and
teased it and made felt of it, and, covering the saddle-tree with
leather, stuffed it and polished it and attached the girth and
stirrup leathers; after which I fetched a blacksmith and
described to him the fashion of the stirrups and bridle-bit. So
he forged a fine pair of stirrups and a bit, and filed them
smooth and tinned[FN#45] them. Moreover, I made fast to them
fringes of silk and fitted bridle-leathers to the bit. Then I
fetched one of the best of the royal horses and saddling and
bridling him, hung the stirrups to the saddle and led him to the
King. The thing took his fancy and he thanked me; then he mounted
and rejoiced greatly in the saddle and rewarded me handsomely for
my work. When the King's Wazir saw the saddle, he asked of me one
like it and I made it for him. Furthermore, all the grandees and
officers of state came for saddles to me; so I fell to making
saddles (having taught the craft to the carpenter and
blacksmith), and selling them to all who sought, till I amassed
great wealth and became in high honour and great favour with the
King and his household and grandees. I abode thus till, one day,
as I was sitting with the King in all respect and contentment, he
said to me, "Know thou, O such an one, thou art become one of us,
dear as a brother, and we hold thee in such regard and affection
that we cannot part with thee nor suffer thee to leave our city;
wherefore I desire of thee obedience in a certain matter, and I
will not have thee gainsay me." Answered I, "O King, what is it
thou desirest of me? Far be it from me to gainsay thee in aught,
for I am indebted to thee for many favours and bounties and much
kindness, and (praised be Allah!) I am become one of thy
servants." Quoth he, "I have a mind to marry thee to a fair,
clever and agreeable wife who is wealthy as she is beautiful; so
thou mayst be naturalised and domiciled with us: I will lodge
thee with me in my palace; wherefore oppose me not neither cross
me in this." When I heard these words I was ashamed and held my
peace nor could make him any answer,[FN#46] by reason of my much
bashfulness before him. Asked he, "Why dost thou not reply to me,
O my son?"; and I answered saying, "O my master, it is thine to
command, O King of the age!" So he summoned the Kazi and the
witnesses and married me straightway to a lady of a noble tree
and high pedigree; wealthy in moneys and means; the flower of an
ancient race; of surpassing beauty and grace, and the owner of
farms and estates and many a dwelling-place.--And Shahrazad
perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.

      When it was the Five Hundred and Fifty-third Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Sindbad the
Seaman continued in these words:--Now after the King my master
had married me to this choice wife, he also gave me a great and
goodly house standing alone, together with slaves and officers,
and assigned me pay and allowances. So I became in all ease and
contentment and delight and forgot everything which had befalled
me of weariness and trouble and hardship; for I loved my wife
with fondest love and she loved me no less, and we were as one
and abode in the utmost comfort of life and in its happiness. And
I said in myself, "When I return to my native land, I will carry
her with me." But whatso is predestined to a man, that needs must
be, and none knoweth what shall befal him. We lived thus a great
while, till Almighty Allah bereft one of my neighbours of his
wife. Now he was a gossip of mine; so hearing the cry of the
keeners I went in to condole with him on his loss and found him
in very ill plight, full of trouble and weary of soul and mind. I
condoled with him and comforted him, saying, "Mourn not for thy
wife who hath now found the mercy of Allah; the Lord will surely
give thee a better in her stead and thy name shall be great and
thy life shall be long in the land, Inshallah!"[FN#47] But he
wept bitter tears and replied, "O my friend, how can I marry
another wife and how shall Allah replace her to me with a better
than she, whenas I have but one day left to live?" "O my
brother," said I, "return to thy senses and announce not the glad
tidings of thine own death, for thou art well, sound and in good
case." "By thy life, O my friend," rejoined he, "to-morrow thou
wilt lose me and wilt never see me again till the Day of
Resurrection." I asked, "How so?" and he answered, "This very day
they bury my wife, and they bury me with her in one tomb; for it
is the custom with us, if the wife die first, to bury the husband
alive with her and in like manner the wife, if the husband die
first; so that neither may enjoy life after losing his or her
mate." "By Allah," cried I, "this is a most vile, lewd custom and
not to be endured of any!" Meanwhile, behold, the most part of
the townsfolk came in and fell to condoling with my gossip for
his wife and for himself. Presently they laid the dead woman out,
as was their wont; and, setting her on a bier, carried her and
her husband without the city, till they came to a place in the
side of the mountain at the end of the island by the sea; and
here they raised a great rock and discovered the mouth of a
stone-rivetted pit or well,[FN#48] leading down into a vast
underground cavern that ran beneath the mountain. Into this pit
they threw the corpse, then tying a rope of palm-fibres under the
husband's armpits, they let him down into the cavern, and with
him a great pitcher of fresh water and seven scones by was of
viaticum.[FN#49] When he came to the bottom, he loosed himself
from the rope and they drew it up; and, stopping the mouth of the
pit with the great stone, they returned to the city, leaving my
friend in the cavern with his dead wife. When I saw this, I said
to myself, "By Allah, this fashion of death is more grievous than
the first!" And I went in to the King and said to him, "O my
lord, why do ye bury the quick with the dead?" Quoth he, "It hath
been the custom, thou must know, of our forbears and our olden
Kings from time immemorial, if the husband die first, to bury his
wife with him, and the like with the wife, so we may not sever
them, alive or dead." I asked, "O King of the age, if the wife of
a foreigner like myself die among you, deal ye with him as with
yonder man?"; and he answered, "Assuredly, we do with him even as
thou hast seen." When I heard this, my gall-bladder was like to
burst, for the violence of my dismay and concern for myself: my
wit became dazed; I felt as if in a vile dungeon; and hated their
society; for I went about in fear lest my wife should die before
me and they bury me alive with her. However, after a while, I
comforted myself, saying, "Haply I shall predecease her, or shall
have returned to my own land before she die, for none knoweth
which shall go first and which shall go last." Then I applied
myself to diverting my mind from this thought with various
occupations; but it was not long before my wife sickened and
complained and took to her pillow and fared after a few days to
the mercy of Allah; and the King and the rest of the folk came,
as was their wont, to condole with me and her family and to
console us for her loss and not less to condole with me for
myself. Then the women washed her and arraying her in her richest
raiment and golden ornaments, necklaces and jewellery, laid her
on the bier and bore her to the mountain aforesaid, where they
lifted the cover of the pit and cast her in; after which all my
intimates and acquaintances and my wife's kith and kin came round
me, to farewell me in my lifetime and console me for my own
death, whilst I cried out among them, saying, "Almighty Allah
never made it lawful to bury the quick with the dead! I am a
stranger, not one of your kind; and I cannot abear your custom,
and had I known it I never would have wedded among you!" They
heard me not and paid no heed to my words, but laying hold of me,
bound me by force and let me down into the cavern, with a large
gugglet of sweet water and seven cakes of bread, according to
their custom. When I came to the bottom, they called out to me to
cast myself loose from the cords, but I refused to do so; so they
threw them down on me and, closing the mouth of the pit with the
stones aforesaid, went their ways,--And Shahrazad perceived the
dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.

      When it was the Five Hundred and Fifty-fourth Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Sindbad the
Seaman continued:--When they left me in the cavern with my dead
wife and, closing the mouth of the pit, went their ways, I looked
about me and found myself in a vast cave full of dead bodies,
that exhaled a fulsome and loathsome smell and the air was heavy
with the groans of the dying. Thereupon I fell to blaming myself
for what I had done, saying, "By Allah, I deserve all that hath
befallen me and all that shall befal me! What curse was upon me
to take a wife in this city? There is no Majesty and there is no
Might save in Allah, the Glorious, the Great! As often as I say,
I have escaped from one calamity, I fall into a worse. By Allah,
this is an abominable death to die! Would Heaven I had died a
decent death and been washed and shrouded like a man and a
Moslem. Would I had been drowned at sea or perished in the
mountains! It were better than to die this miserable death!" And
on such wise I kept blaming my own folly and greed of gain in
that black hole, knowing not night from day; and I ceased not to
ban the Foul Fiend and to bless the Almighty Friend. Then I threw
myself down on the bones of the dead and lay there, imploring
Allah's help and in the violence of my despair, invoking death
which came not to me, till the fire of hunger burned my stomach
and thirst set my throat aflame when I sat up and feeling for the
bread, ate a morsel and upon it swallowed a mouthful of water.
After this, the worst night I ever knew, I arose, and exploring
the cavern, found that it extended a long way with hollows in its
sides; and its floor was strewn with dead bodies and rotten
bones, that had lain there from olden time. So I made myself a
place in a cavity of the cavern, afar from the corpses lately
thrown down and there slept. I abode thus a long while, till my
provision was like to give out; and yet I ate not save once every
day or second day; nor did I drink more than an occasional
draught, for fear my victual should fail me before my death; and
I said to myself, "Eat little and drink little; belike the Lord
shall vouchsafe deliverance to thee!" One day, as I sat thus,
pondering my case and bethinking me how I should do, when my
bread and water should be exhausted, behold, the stone that
covered the opening was suddenly rolled away and the light
streamed down upon me. Quoth I, "I wonder what is the matter:
haply they have brought another corpse." Then I espied folk
standing about the mouth of the pit, who presently let down a
dead man and a live woman, weeping and bemoaning herself, and
with her an ampler supply of bread and water than usual.[FN#50] I
saw her and she was a beautiful woman; but she saw me not; and
they closed up the opening and went away. Then I took the leg-
bone of a dead man and, going up to the woman, smote her on the
crown of the head; and she cried one cry and fell down in a
swoon. I smote her a second and a third time, till she was dead,
when I laid hands on her bread and water and found on her great
plenty of ornaments and rich apparel, necklaces, jewels and gold
trinkets;[FN#51] for it was their custom to bury women in all
their finery. I carried the vivers to my sleeping place in the
cavern-side and ate and drank of them sparingly, no more than
sufficed to keep the life in me, lest the provaunt come speedily
to an end and I perish of hunger and thirst. Yet did I never
wholly lose hope in Almighty Allah. I abode thus a great while,
killing all the live folk they let down into the cavern and
taking their provisions of meat and drink; till one day, as I
slept, I was awakened by something scratching and burrowing among
the bodies in a corner of the cave and said, "What can this be?"
fearing wolves or hyaenas. So I sprang up and seizing the leg-
bone aforesaid, made for the noise. As soon as the thing was ware
of me, it fled from me into the inward of the cavern, and lo! it
was a wild beast. However, I followed it to the further end, till
I saw afar off a point of light not bigger than a star, now
appearing and then disappearing. So I made for it, and as I drew
near, it grew larger and brighter, till I was certified that it
was a crevice in the rock, leading to the open country; and I
said to myself, "There must be some reason for this opening:
either it is the mouth of a second pit, such as that by which
they let me down, or else it is a natural fissure in the
stonery." So I bethought me awhile and nearing the light, found
that it came from a breach in the back side of the mountain,
which the wild beasts had enlarged by burrowing, that they might
enter and devour the dead and freely go to and fro. When I saw
this, my spirits revived and hope came back to me and I made sure
of life, after having died a death. So I went on, as in a dream,
and making shift to scramble through the breach found myself on
the slope of a high mountain, overlooking the salt sea and
cutting off all access thereto from the island, so that none
could come at that part of the beach from the city.[FN#52] I
praised my Lord and thanked Him, rejoicing greatly and heartening
myself with the prospect of deliverance; then I returned through
the crack to the cavern and brought out all the food and water I
had saved up and donned some of the dead folk's clothes over my
own; after which I gathered together all the collars and
necklaces of pearls and jewels and trinkets of gold and silver
set with precious stones and other ornaments and valuables I
could find upon the corpses; and, making them into bundles with
the grave clothes and raiment of the dead, carried them out to
the back of the mountain facing the sea-shore, where I
established myself, purposing to wait there till it should please
Almighty Allah to send me relief by means of some passing ship. I
visited the cavern daily and as often as I found folk buried
alive there, I killed them all indifferently, men and women, and
took their victual and valuables and transported them to my seat
on the sea-shore. Thus I abode a long while,--And Shahrazad
perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.

      When it was the Five Hundred and Fifty-fifth Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Sindbad the
Seaman continued:--And after carrying all my victuals and
valuables from the cavern to the coast I abode a long while by
the sea, pondering my case, till one day I caught sight of a ship
passing in the midst of the clashing sea, swollen with dashing
billows. So I took a piece of a white shroud I had with me and,
tying it to a staff, ran along the sea-shore, making signals
therewith and calling to the people in the ship, till they espied
me and hearing my shouts, sent a boat to fetch me off. When it
drew near, the crew called out to me, saying, "Who art thou and
how camest thou to be on this mountain, whereon never saw we any
in our born days?" I answered, "I am a gentleman[FN#53] and a
merchant, who hath been wrecked and saved myself on one of the
planks of the ship, with some of my goods; and by the blessing of
the Almighty and the decrees of Destiny and my own strength and
skill, after much toil and moil I have landed with my gear in
this place where I awaited some passing ship to take me off." So
they took me in their boat together with the bundles I had made
of the jewels and valuables from the cavern, tied up in clothes
and shrouds, and rowed back with me to the ship, where the
captain said to me, "How camest thou, O man, to yonder place on
yonder mountain behind which lieth a great city? All my life I
have sailed these seas and passed to and fro hard by these
heights; yet never saw I here any living thing save wild beasts
and birds." I repeated to him the story I had told the
sailors,[FN#54] but acquainted him with nothing of that which had
befallen me in the city and the cavern, lest there should be any
of the islandry in the ship. Then I took out some of the best
pearls I had with me and offered them to the captain, saying, "O
my lord, thou hast been the means of saving me off this mountain.
I have no ready money; but take this from me in requital of thy
kindness and good offices." But he refused to accept it of me,
saying, "When we find a shipwrecked man on the sea-shore or on an
island, we take him up and give him meat and drink, and if he be
naked we clothe him; nor take we aught from him; nay, when we
reach a port of safety, we set him ashore with a present of our
own money and entreat him kindly and charitably, for the love of
Allah the Most High." So I prayed that his life be long in the
land and rejoiced in my escape, trusting to be delivered from my
stress and to forget my past mishaps; for every time I remembered
being let down into the cave with my dead wife I shuddered in
horror. Then we pursued our voyage and sailed from island to
island and sea to sea, till we arrived at the Island of the Bell,
which containeth a city two days' journey in extent, whence after
a six days' run we reached the Island Kala, hard by the land of
Hind.[FN#55] This place is governed by a potent and puissant King
and it produceth excellent camphor and an abundance of the Indian
rattan: here also is a lead mine. At last by the decree of Allah,
we arrived in safety at Bassorah-town where I tarried a few days,
then went on to Baghdad-city, and, finding my quarter, entered my
house with lively pleasure. There I foregathered with my family
and friends, who rejoiced in my happy return and gave my joy of
my safety. I laid up in my storehouses all the goods I had
brought with me, and gave alms and largesse to Fakirs and beggars
and clothed the widow and the orphan. Then I gave myself up to
pleasure and enjoyment, returning to my old merry mode of life.
"Such, then, be the most marvellous adventures of my fourth
voyage, but to-morrow if you will kindly come to me, I will tell
you that which befel me in my fifth voyage, which was yet rarer
and more marvellous than those which forewent it. And thou, O my
brother Sindbad the Landsman, shalt sup with me as thou art
wont." (Saith he who telleth the tale), When Sindbad the Seaman
had made an end of his story, he called for supper; so they
spread the table and the guests ate the evening meal; after which
he gave the Porter an hundred dinars as usual, and he and the
rest of the company went their ways, glad at heart and marvelling
at the tales they had heard, for that each story was more
extraordinary than that which forewent it. The porter Sindbad
passed the night in his own house, in all joy and cheer and
wonderment; and, as soon as morning came with its sheen and
shone, he prayed the dawn-prayer and repaired to the house of
Sindbad the Seaman, who welcomed him and bade him sit with him
till the rest of the company arrived, when they ate and drank and
made merry and the talk went round amongst them. Presently, their
host began the narrative of the fifth voyage,--And Shahrazad
perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.

      When it was the Five Hundred and Fifty-sixth Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the host
began in these words the narrative of



The Fifth Voyage of Sindbad the Seaman.



Know, O my brothers, that when I had been awhile on shore after
my fourth voyage; and when, in my comfort and pleasures and
merry-makings and in my rejoicing over my large gains and
profits, I had forgotten all I had endured of perils and
sufferings, the carnal man was again seized with the longing to
travel and to see foreign countries and islands.[FN#56]
Accordingly I bought costly merchandise suited to my purpose and,
making it up into bales, repaired to Bassorah, where I walked
about the river-quay till I found a fine tall ship, newly builded
with gear unused and fitted ready for sea. She pleased me; so I
bought her and, embarking my goods in her, hired a master and
crew, over whom I set certain of my slaves and servants as
inspectors. A number of merchants also brought their outfits and
paid me freight and passage-money; then, after reciting the
Fatihah we set sail over Allah's pool in all joy and cheer,
promising ourselves a prosperous voyage and much profit. We
sailed from city to city and from island to island and from sea
to sea viewing the cities and countries by which we passed, and
selling and buying in not a few till one day we came to a great
uninhabited island, deserted and desolate, whereon was a white
dome of biggest bulk half buried in the sands. The merchants
landed to examine this dome, leaving me in the ship; and when
they drew near, behold, it was a huge Rukh's egg. They fell a-
beating it with stones, knowing not what it was, and presently
broke it open, whereupon much water ran out of it and the young
Rukh appeared within. So they pulled it forth of the shell and
cut its throat and took of it great store of meat. Now I was in
the ship and knew not what they did; but presently one of the
passengers came up to me and said, "O my lord, come and look at
the egg we thought to be a dome." So I looked and seeing the
merchants beating it with stones, called out to them, "Stop,
stop! do not meddle with that egg, or the bird Rukh will come out
and break our ship and destroy us."[FN#57] But they paid no heed
to me and gave not over smiting upon the egg, when behold, the
day grew dark and dun and the sun was hidden from us, as if some
great cloud had passed over the firmament.[FN#58] So we raised
our eyes and saw that what we took for a cloud was the Rukh
poised between us and the sun, and it was his wings that darkened
the day. When he came and saw his egg broken, he cried a loud
cry, whereupon his mate came flying up and they both began
circling about the ship, crying out at us with voices louder than
thunder. I called to the Rais and crew, "Put out to sea and seek
safety in flight, before we be all destroyed." So the merchants
came on board and we cast off and made haste from the island to
gain the open sea. When the Rukhs saw this, they flew off and we
crowded all sail on the ship, thinking to get out of their
country; but presently the two re-appeared and flew after us and
stood over us, each carrying in its claws a huge boulder which it
had brought from the mountains. As soon as the he-Rukh came up
with us, he let fall upon us the rock he held in his pounces; but
the master put about ship, so that the rock missed her by some
small matter and plunged into the waves with such violence, that
the ship pitched high and then sank into the trough of the sea
and the bottom of the ocean appeared to us. Then the she-Rukh let
fall her rock, which was bigger than that of her mate, and as
Destiny had decreed, it fell on the poop of the ship and crushed
it, the rudder flying into twenty pieces; whereupon the vessel
foundered and all and everything on board were cast into the
main.[FN#59] As for me I struggled for sweet life, till Almighty
Allah threw in my way one of the planks of the ship, to which I
clung and bestriding it, fell a-paddling with my feet. Now the
ship had gone down hard by an island in the midst of the main and
the winds and waves bore me on till, by permission of the Most
High, they cast me up on the shore of the island, at the last
gasp for toil and distress and half dead with hunger and thirst.
So I landed more like a corpse than a live man and throwing
myself down on the beach, lay there awhile, till I began to
revive and recover spirits, when I walked about the island and
found it as it were one of the garths and gardens of Paradise.
Its trees, in abundance dight, bore ripe-yellow fruit for
freight; its streams ran clear and bright; its flowers were fair
to scent and to sight and its birds warbled with delight the
praises of Him to whom belong permanence and all-might. So I ate
my fill of the fruits and slaked my thirst with the water of the
streams till I could no more and I returned thanks to the Most
High and glorified Him;--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day
and ceased saying her permitted say.

     When it was the Five Hundred and Fifty-seventh Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Sindbad the
Seaman continued:--So when I escaped drowning and reached the
island which afforded me fruit to eat and water to drink, I
returned thanks to the Most High and glorified Him; after which I
sat till nightfall, hearing no voice and seeing none inhabitant.
Then I lay down, well-nigh dead for travail and trouble and
terror, and slept without surcease till morning, when I arose and
walked about under the trees, till I came to the channel of a
draw-well fed by a spring of running water, by which well sat an
old man of venerable aspect, girt about with a waist-cloth[FN#60]
made of the fibre of palm-fronds.[FN#61] Quoth I to myself,
"Haply this Shaykh is one of those who were wrecked in the ship
and hath made his way to this island." So I drew near to him and
saluted him, and he returned my salam by signs, but spoke not;
and I said to him, "O nuncle mine, what causeth thee to sit
here?" He shook his head and moaned and signed to me with his
hands as who should say, "Take me on thy shoulders and carry me
to the other side of the well-channel." And quoth I in my mind,
"I will deal kindly with him and do what he desireth; it may be I
shall win me a reward in Heaven for he may be a paralytic." So I
took him on my back and carrying him to the place whereat he
pointed, said to him, "Dismount at thy leisure." But he would not
get off my back and wound his legs about my neck. I looked at
them and seeing that they were like a buffalo's hide for
blackness and roughness,[FN#62] was affrighted and would have
cast him off; but he clung to me and gripped my neck with his
legs, till I was well-nigh choked, the world grew black in my
sight and I fell senseless to the ground like one dead. But he
still kept his seat and raising his legs drummed with his heels
and beat harder than palm-rods my back and shoulders, till he
forced me to rise for excess of pain. Then he signed to me with
his hand to carry him hither and thither among the trees which
bore the best fruits; and if ever I refused to do his bidding or
loitered or took my leisure he beat me with his feet more
grievously than if I had been beaten with whips. He ceased not to
signal with his hand wherever he was minded to go; so I carried
him about the island, like a captive slave, and he bepissed and
conskited my shoulders and back, dismounting not night nor day;
and whenas he wished to sleep he wound his legs about my neck and
leaned back and slept awhile, then arose and beat me; whereupon I
sprang up in haste, unable to gainsay him because of the pain he
inflicted on me. And indeed I blamed myself and sore repented me
of having taken compassion on him and continued in this
condition, suffering fatigue not to be described, till I said to
myself, "I wrought him a weal and he requited me with my ill; by
Allah, never more will I do any man a service so long as I live!"
And again and again I besought the Most High that I might die,
for stress of weariness and misery; and thus I abode a long while
till, one day, I came with him to a place wherein was abundance
of gourds, many of them dry. So I took a great dry gourd and,
cutting open the head, scooped out the inside and cleaned it;
after which I gathered grapes from a vine which grew hard by and
squeezed them into the gourd, till it was full of the juice. Then
I stopped up the mouth and set it in the sun, where I left it for
some days, until it became strong wine; and every day I used to
drink of it, to comfort and sustain me under my fatigues with
that froward and obstinate fiend; and as often as I drank myself
drunk, I forgot my troubles and took new heart. One day he saw me
drinking and signed to me with his hand, as who should say, "What
is that?" Quoth I, "It is an excellent cordial, which cheereth
the heart and reviveth the spirits." Then, being heated with
wine, I ran and danced with him among the trees, clapping my
hands and singing and making merry; and I staggered under him by
design. When he saw this, he signed to me to give him the gourd
that he might drink, and I feared him and gave it him. So he took
it and, draining it to the dregs, cast it on the ground,
whereupon he grew frolicsome and began to clap hands and jig to
and fro on my shoulders and he made water upon me so copiously
that all my dress was drenched. But presently the fumes of the
wine rising to his head, he became helplessly drunk and his side-
muscles and limbs relaxed and he swayed to and fro on my back.
When I saw that he had lost his senses for drunkenness, I put my
hand to his legs and, loosing them from my neck, stooped down
well-nigh to the ground and threw him at full length,--And
Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her
permitted say.

      When it was the Five Hundred and Fifty-eighth Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Sindbad the
Seaman continued:--So I threw the devil off my shoulders, hardly
crediting my deliverance from him and fearing lest he should
shake off his drunkenness and do me a mischief. Then I took up a
great stone from among the trees and coming up to him smote him
therewith on the head with all my might and crushed in his skull
as he lay dead drunk. Thereupon his flesh and fat and blood being
in a pulp, he died and went to his deserts, The Fire, no mercy of
Allah be upon him! I then returned, with a heart at ease, to my
former station on the sea-shore and abode in that island many
days, eating of its fruits and drinking of its waters and keeping
a look-out for passing ships; till one day, as I sat on the
beach, recalling all that had befallen me and saying, "I wonder
if Allah will save me alive and restore me to my home and family
and friends!" behold, a ship was making for the island through
the dashing sea and clashing waves. Presently, it cast anchor and
the passengers landed; so I made for them, and when they saw me
all hastened up to me and gathering round me questioned me of my
case and how I came thither. I told them all that had betided me,
whereat they marvelled with exceeding marvel and said, "He who
rode on thy shoulder is called the 'Shaykh al-Bahr' or Old Man of
the Sea,[FN#63] and none ever felt his legs on neck and came off
alive but thou; and those who die under him he eateth: so praised
be Allah for thy safety!" Then they set somewhat of food before
me, whereof I ate my fill, and gave me somewhat of clothes
wherewith I clad myself anew and covered my nakedness; after
which they took me up into the ship, and we sailed days and
nights, till fate brought us to a place called the City of Apes,
builded with lofty houses, all of which gave upon the sea and it
had a single gate studded and strengthened with iron nails. Now
every night, as soon as it is dusk the dwellers in this city use
to come forth of the gates and, putting out to sea in boats and
ships, pass the night upon the waters in their fear lest the apes
should come down on them from the mountains. Hearing this I was
sore troubled remembering what I had before suffered from the
ape-kind. Presently I landed to solace myself in the city, but
meanwhile the ship set sail without me and I repented of having
gone ashore, and calling to mind my companions and what had
befallen me with the apes, first and after, sat down and fell a-
weeping and lamenting. Presently one of the townsfolk accosted me
and said to me, "O my lord, meseemeth thou art a stranger to
these parts?" "Yes," answered I, "I am indeed a stranger and a
poor one, who came hither in a ship which cast anchor here, and I
landed to visit the town; but when I would have gone on board
again, I found they had sailed without me." Quoth he, "Come and
embark with us, for if thou lie the night in the city, the apes
will destroy thee." "Hearkening and obedience," replied I, and
rising, straightway embarked with him in one of the boats,
whereupon they pushed off from shore and anchoring a mile or so
from the land, there passed the night. At daybreak, they rowed
back to the city and landing, went each about his business. Thus
they did every night, for if any tarried in the town by night the
apes came down on him and slew him. As soon as it was day, the
apes left the place and ate of the fruits of the gardens, then
went back to the mountains and slept there till nightfall, when
they again came down upon the city.[FN#64] Now this place was in
the farthest part of the country of the blacks, and one of the
strangest things that befel me during my sojourn in the city was
on this wise. One of the company with whom I passed the night in
the boat, asked me, "O my lord, thou art apparently a stranger in
these parts; hast thou any craft whereat thou canst work?"; and I
answered, "By Allah, O my brother, I have no trade nor know I any
handicraft, for I was a merchant and a man of money and substance
and had a ship of my own, laden with great store of goods and
merchandise; but it foundered at sea and all were drowned
excepting me who saved myself on a piece of plank which Allah
vouchsafed to me of His favour." Upon this he brought me a cotton
bag and giving it to me, said, "Take this bag and fill it with
pebbles from the beach and go forth with a company of the
townsfolk to whom I will give a charge respecting thee. Do as
they do and belike thou shalt gain what may further thy return
voyage to thy native land." Then he carried me to the beach,
where I filled my bag with pebbles large and small, and presently
we saw a company of folk issue from the town, each bearing a bag
like mine, filled with pebbles. To these he committed me,
commending me to their care, and saying, "This man is a stranger,
so take him with you and teach him how to gather, that he may get
his daily bread, and you will earn your reward and recompense in
Heaven." "On our head and eyes be it!" answered they and bidding
me welcome, fared on with me till we came to a spacious Wady,
full of lofty trees with trunks so smooth that none might climb
them. Now sleeping under these trees were many apes, which when
they saw us rose and fled from us and swarmed up among the
branches; whereupon my companions began to pelt them with what
they had in their bags, and the apes fell to plucking of the
fruit of the trees and casting them at the folk. I looked at the
fruits they cast at us and found them to be Indian[FN#65] or
cocoa-nuts; so I chose out a great tree, full of apes, and going
up to it, began to pelt them with stones, and they in return
pelted me with nuts, which I collected, as did the rest; so that
even before I had made an end of my bagful of pebbles, I had
gotten great plenty of nuts; and as soon as my companions had in
like manner gotten as many nuts as they could carry, we returned
to the city, where we arrived at the fag-end of day. Then I went
in to the kindly man who had brought me in company with the nut-
gatherers and gave him all I had gotten, thanking him for his
kindness; but he would not accept them, saying, "Sell them and
make profit by the price; and presently he added (giving me the
key of a closet in his house) "Store thy nuts in this safe place
and go thou forth every morning and gather them as thou hast done
to-day, and choose out the worst for sale and supplying thyself;
but lay up the rest here, so haply thou mayst collect enough to
serve thee for thy return home." "Allah requite thee!" answered I
and did as he advised me, going out daily with the cocoa-nut
gatherers, who commended me to one another and showed me the
best-stocked trees.[FN#66] Thus did I for some time, till I had
laid up great store of excellent nuts, besides a large sum of
money, the price of those I had sold. I became thus at my ease
and bought all I saw and had a mind to, and passed my time
pleasantly greatly enjoying my stay in the city, till, as I stood
on the beach, one day, a great ship steering through the heart of
the sea presently cast anchor by the shore and landed a company
of merchants, who proceeded to sell and buy and barter their
goods for cocoa-nuts and other commodities. Then I went to my
friend and told him of the coming of the ship and how I had a
mind to return to my own country; and he said, "'Tis for thee to
decide." So I thanked him for his bounties and took leave of him;
then, going to the captain of the ship, I agreed with him for my
passage and embarked my cocoa-nuts and what else I possessed. We
weighed anchor,--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and
ceased saying her permitted say.

      When it was the Five Hundred and Fifty-ninth Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Sindbad the
Seaman continued:--So I left the City of the Apes and embarked my
cocoa-nuts and what else I possessed. We weighed anchor the same
day and sailed from island to island and sea to sea; and whenever
we stopped, I sold and traded with my cocoa-nuts, and the Lord
requited me more than I erst had and lost. Amongst other places,
we came to an island abounding in cloves[FN#67] and cinnamon and
pepper; and the country people told me that by the side of each
pepper-bunch groweth a great leaf which shadeth it from the sun
and casteth the water off it in the wet season; but, when the
rain ceaseth the leaf turneth over and droopeth down by the side
of the bunch.[FN#68] Here I took in great store of pepper and
cloves and cinnamon, in exchange for cocoa-nuts, and we passed
thence to the Island of Al-Usirat,[FN#69] whence cometh the
Comorin aloes-wood and thence to another island, five days'
journey in length, where grows the Chinese lign-aloes, which is
better than the Comorin; but the people of this island[FN#70] are
fouler of condition and religion than those of the other, for
that they love fornication and wine-bibbing, and know not prayer
nor call to prayer. Thence we came to the pearl-fisheries, and I
gave the divers some of my cocoa-nuts and said to them, "Dive for
my luck and lot!" They did so and brought up from the deep
bight[FN#71] great store of large and priceless pearls; and they
said to me, "By Allah, O my master, thy luck is a lucky!" Then we
sailed on, with the blessing of Allah (whose name be exalted!);
and ceased not sailing till we arrived safely at Bassorah. There
I abode a little and then went on to Baghdad, where I entered my
quarter and found my house and foregathered with my family and
saluted my friends who gave me joy of my safe return, and I laid
up all my goods and valuables in my storehouses. Then I
distributed alms and largesse and clothed the widow and the
orphan and made presents to my relations and comrades; for the
Lord had requited me fourfold that I had lost. After which I
returned to my old merry way of life and forgot all I had
suffered in the great profit and gain I had made. "Such, then, is
the history of my fifth voyage and its wonderments, and now to
supper; and to-morrow, come again and I will tell you what befel
me in my sixth voyage; for it was still more wonderful than
this." (Saith he who telleth the tale), Then he called for food;
and the servants spread the table, and when they had eaten the
evening-meal, he bade give Sindbad the porter an hundred golden
dinars and the Landsman returned home and lay him down to sleep,
much marvelling at all he had heard. Next morning, as soon as it
was light, he prayed the dawn-prayer; and, after blessing
Mohammed the Cream of all creatures, betook himself to the house
of Sindbad the Seaman and wished him a good day. The merchant
bade him sit and talked with him, till the rest of the company
arrived. Then the servants spread the table and when they had
well eaten and drunken and were mirthful and merry, Sindbad the
Seaman began in these words the narrative of




The Sixth Voyage of Sindbad the Seaman.



Know, O my brothers and friends and companions all, that I abode
some time, after my return from my fifth voyage, in great solace
and satisfaction and mirth and merriment, joyance and enjoyment;
and I forgot what I had suffered, seeing the great gain and
profit I had made till, one day, as I sat making merry and
enjoying myself with my friends, there came in to me a company of
merchants whose case told tales of travel, and talked with me of
voyage and adventure and greatness of pelf and lucre. Hereupon I
remembered the days of my return from abroad, and my joy at once
more seeing my native land and foregathering with my family and
friends; and my soul yearned for travel and traffic. So compelled
by Fate and Fortune I resolved to undertake another voyage; and,
buying me fine and costly merchandise meet for foreign trade,
made it up into bales, with which I journeyed from Baghdad to
Bassorah. Here I found a great ship ready for sea and full of
merchants and notables, who had with them goods of price; so I
embarked my bales therein. And we left Bassorah in safety and
good spirits under the safeguard of the King, the Preserver.--And
Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her
permitted say.

        When it was the Five Hundred and Sixtieth Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Sindbad the
Seaman continued:--And after embarking my bales and leaving
Bassorah in safety and good spirits, we continued our voyage from
place to place and from city to city, buying and selling and
profiting and diverting ourselves with the sight of countries
where strange folk dwell. And Fortune and the voyage smiled upon
us, till one day, as we went along, behold, the captain suddenly
cried with a great cry and cast his turband on the deck. Then he
buffeted his face like a woman and plucked out his beard and fell
down in the waist of the ship will nigh fainting for stress of
grief and rage, and crying, "Oh and alas for the ruin of my house
and the orphanship of my poor children!" So all the merchant and
sailors came round about him and asked him, "O master, what is
the matter?"; for the light had become night before their sight.
And he answered, saying, "Know, O folk, that we have wandered
from our course and left the sea whose ways we wot, and come into
a sea whose ways I know not; and unless Allah vouchsafe us a
means of escape, we are all dead men; wherefore pray ye to the
Most High, that He deliver us from this strait. Haply amongst you
is one righteous whose prayers the Lord will accept." Then he
arose and clomb the mast to see an there were any escape from
that strait; and he would have loosed the sails; but the wind
redoubled upon the ship and whirled her round thrice and drave
her backwards; whereupon her rudder brake and she fell off
towards a high mountain. With this the captain came down from the
mast, saying, "There is no Majesty and there is no Might save in
Allah, the Glorious, the Great; nor can man prevent that which is
fore-ordained of fate! By Allah, we are fallen on a place of sure
destruction, and there is no way of escape for us, nor can any of
us be saved!" Then we all fell a-weeping over ourselves and
bidding one another farewell for that our days were come to an
end, and we had lost all hopes of life. Presently the ship struck
the mountain and broke up, and all and everything on board of her
were plunged into the sea. Some of the merchants were drowned and
others made shift to reach the shore and save themselves upon the
mountain; I amongst the number, and when we got ashore, we found
a great island, or rather peninsula[FN#72] whose base was strewn
with wreckage of crafts and goods and gear cast up by the sea
from broken ships whose passengers had been drowned; and the
quantity confounded compt and calculation. So I climbed the
cliffs into the inward of the isle and walked on inland, till I
came to a stream of sweet water, that welled up at the nearest
foot of the mountains and disappeared in the earth under the
range of hills on the opposite side. But all the other passengers
went over the mountains to the inner tracts; and, dispersing
hither and thither, were confounded at what they saw and became
like madmen at the sight of the wealth and treasures wherewith
the shores were strewn. As for me I looked into the bed of the
stream aforesaid and saw therein great plenty of rubies, and
great royal pearls[FN#73] and all kinds of jewels and precious
stones which were as gravel in the bed of the rivulets that ran
through the fields, and the sands sparkled and glittered with
gems and precious ores. Moreover we found in the island abundance
of the finest lign-aloes, both Chinese and Comorin; and there
also is a spring of crude ambergris[FN#74] which floweth like wax
or gum over the stream-banks, for the great heat of the sun, and
runneth down to the sea-shore, where the monsters of the deep
come up and swallowing it, return into the sea. But it burneth in
their bellies; so they cast it up again and it congealeth on the
surface of the water, whereby its color and quantities are
changed; and at last, the waves cast it ashore, and the
travellers and merchants who know it, collect it and sell it. But
as to the raw ambergris which is not swallowed, it floweth over
the channel and congealeth on the banks and when the sun shineth
on it, it melteth and scenteth the whole valley with a musk-like
fragrance: then, when the sun ceaseth from it, it congealeth
again. But none can get to this place where is the crude
ambergris, because of the mountains which enclose the island on
all sides and which foot of man cannot ascend.[FN#75] We
continued thus to explore the island, marvelling at the wonderful
works of Allah and the riches we found there, but sore troubled
for our own case, and dismayed at our prospects. Now we had
picked up on the beach some small matter of victual from the
wreck and husbanded it carefully, eating but once every day or
two, in our fear lest it should fail us and we die miserably of
famine or affright. Moreover, we were weak for colic brought on
by sea-sickness and low diet, and my companions deceased, one
after other, till there was but a small company of us left. Each
that died we washed and shrouded in some of the clothes and linen
cast ashore by the tides; and after a little, the rest of my
fellows perished, one by one, till I had buried the last of the
party and abode alone on the island, with but a little provision
left, I who was wont to have so much. And I wept over myself,
saying, "Would Heaven I had died before my companions and they
had washed and buried me! It had been better than I should perish
and none wash me and shroud me and bury me. But there is Majesty
and there is no Might save in Allah, the Glorious, the Great!"--
And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her
permitted say.

      When it was the Five Hundred and Sixty-first Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Sindbad the
Seaman continued in these words:--Now after I had buried the last
of my party and abode alone on the island, I arose and dug me a
deep grave on the sea-shore, saying to myself, "Whenas I grow
weak and know that death cometh to me, I will cast myself into
the grave and die there, so the wind may drift the sand over me
and cover me and I be buried therein."[FN#76] Then I fell to
reproaching myself for my little wit in leaving my native land
and betaking me again to travel, after all I had suffered during
my first five voyages, and when I had not made a single one
without suffering more horrible perils and more terrible
hardships than in its forerunner and having no hope of escape
from my present stress; and I repented me of my folly and
bemoaned myself, especially as I had no need of money, seeing
that I had enough and more than enough and could not spend what I
had, no, nor a half of it in all my life. However, after a while
Allah sent me a thought and I said to myself, "By God, needs must
this stream have an end as well as a beginning; ergo an issue
somewhere, and belike its course may lead to some inhabited
place; so my best plan is to make me a little boat[FN#77] big
enough to sit in, and carry it and launching it on the river,
embark therein and drop down the stream. If I escape, I escape,
by God's leave; and if I perish, better die in the river than
here." Then, sighing for myself, I set to work collecting a
number of pieces of Chinese and Comorin aloes-wood and I bound
them together with ropes from the wreckage; then I chose out from
the broken-up ships straight planks of even size and fixed them
firmly upon the aloes-wood, making me a boat-raft a little
narrower than the channel of the stream; and I tied it tightly
and firmly as though it were nailed. Then I loaded it with the
goods, precious ores and jewels: and the union pearls which were
like gravel and the best of the ambergris crude and pure,
together with what I had collected on the island and what was
left me of victual and wild herbs. Lastly I lashed a piece of
wood on either side, to serve me as oars; and launched it, and
embarking, did according to the saying of the poet,

"Fly, fly with life whenas evils threat; * Leave the house to
     tell of its builder's fate!
Land after land shalt thou seek and find * But no other life on
     thy wish shall wait:
Fret not thy soul in thy thoughts o' night; * All woes shall end
     or sooner or late.
Whoso is born in one land to die, * There and only there shall
     gang his gait:
Nor trust great things to another wight, * Soul hath only soul
     for confederate."[FN#78]

My boat-raft drifted with the stream, I pondering the issue of my
affair; and the drifting ceased not till I came to the place
where it disappeared beneath the mountain. I rowed my conveyance
into the place which was intensely dark; and the current carried
the raft with it down the underground channel.[FN#79] The thin
stream bore me on through a narrow tunnel where the raft touched
either side and my head rubbed against the roof, return therefrom
being impossible. Then I blamed myself for having thus risked my
life, and said, "If this passage grow any straiter, the raft will
hardly pass, and I cannot turn back; so I shall inevitably perish
miserably in this place." And I threw myself down upon my face on
the raft, by reason of the narrowness of the channel, whilst the
stream ceased not to carry me along, knowing not night from day,
for the excess of the gloom which encompassed me about and my
terror and concern for myself lest I should perish. And in such
condition my course continued down the channel which now grew
wide and then straiter till, sore aweary by reason of the
darkness which could be felt, I fell asleep, as I lay prone on
the raft, and I slept knowing not an the time were long or short.
When I awoke at last, I found myself in the light of Heaven and
opening my eyes I saw myself in a broad stream and the raft
moored to an island in the midst of a number of Indians and
Abyssinians. As soon as these blackamoors[FN#80] saw that I was
awake, they came up to me and bespoke me in their speech; but I
understood not what they said and thought that this was a dream
and a vision which had betided me for stress of concern and
chagrin. But I was delighted at my escape from the river. When
they saw I understood them not and made them no answer, one of
them came forward and said to me in Arabic, "Peace be with thee,
O my brother! Who art thou and whence faredst thou thither? How
camest thou into this river and what manner of land lies behind
yonder mountains, for never knew we any one make his way thence
to us?" Quoth I, "And upon thee be peace and the ruth of Allah
and his blessing! Who are ye and what country is this?" "O my
brother," answered he, "we are husbandmen and tillers of the
soil, who came out to water our fields and plantations; and,
finding thee asleep on this raft, laid hold of it and made it
fast by us, against thou shouldst awake at thy leisure. So tell
us how thou camest hither?" I answered, "For Allah's sake, O my
lord, ere I speak give me somewhat to eat, for I am starving, and
after ask me what thou wilt." So he hastened to fetch me food and
I ate my fill, till I was refreshed and my fear was calmed by a
good belly-full and my life returned to me. Then I rendered
thanks to the Most High for mercies great and small, glad to be
out of the river and rejoicing to be amongst them, and I told
them all my adventures from first to last, especially my troubles
in the narrow channel.--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day
and ceased to say her permitted say.

      When it was the Five Hundred and Sixty-second Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Sindbad the
Seaman continued:--When I landed and found myself amongst the
Indians and Abyssinians and had taken some rest, they consulted
among themselves and said to one another, "There is no help for
it but we carry him with us and present him to our King, that he
may acquaint him with his adventures." So they took me, together
with the raft-boat and its lading of monies and merchandise;
jewels, minerals and golden gear, and brought me to their King,
who was King of Sarandib,[FN#81] telling him what had happened;
whereupon he saluted me and bade me welcome. Then he questioned
me of my condition and adventures through the man who had spoken
Arabic and I repeated to him my story from beginning to end,
whereat he marvelled exceedingly and gave me joy of my
deliverance; after which I arose and fetched from the raft great
store of precious ores and jewels and ambergris and lign-aloes
and presented them to the King, who accepted them and entreated
me with the utmost honour, appointing me a lodging in his own
palace. So I consorted with the chief of the islanders, and they
paid me the utmost respect. And I quitted not the royal palace.
Now the Island Sarandib lieth under the equinoctial line, its
night and day both numbering twelve house. It measureth eighty
leagues long by a breadth of thirty and its wideth is bounded by
a lofty mountain[FN#82] and a deep valley, The mountain is
conspicuous from a distance of three days and it containeth many
kinds of rubies and other minerals, and spice-trees of all sorts.
The surface is covered with emery wherewith gems are cut and
fashioned; diamonds are in its rivers and pearls are in its
valleys. I ascended that mountain and solaced myself with a view
of its marvels which are indescribable and afterwards I returned
to the King.[FN#83] Thereupon, all the travellers and merchants
who came to the place questioned me of the affairs of my native
land and of the Caliph Harun al-Rashid and his rule and I told
them of him and of that wherefor he was renowned, and they
praised him because of this; whilst I in turn questioned them of
the manners and customers of their own countries and got the
knowledge I desired. One day, the King himself asked me of the
fashions and form of government of my country, and I acquainted
him with the circumstance of the Caliph's sway in the city of
Baghdad and the justice of his rule. The King marvelled at my
account of his appointments and said, "By Allah, the Caliph's
ordinances are indeed wise and his fashions of praiseworthy guise
and thou hast made me love him by what thou tellest me; wherefore
I have a mind to make him a present and send it by thee." Quoth
I, "Hearkening and obedience, O my lord; I will bear thy gift to
him and inform him that thou art his sincere lover and true
friend." Then I abode with the King in great honour and regard
and consideration for a long while till, one day, as I sat in his
palace, I heard news of a company of merchants, that were fitting
out a ship for Bassorah, and said to myself, "I cannot do better
than voyage with these men." So I rose without stay or delay and
kissed the King's hand and acquainted him with my longing to set
out with the merchants, for that I pined after my people and mine
own land. Quoth he, "Thou art thine own master; yet, if it be thy
will to abide with us, on our head and eyes be it, for thou
gladdenest us with thy company." "By Allah, O my lord," answered
I, "thou hast indeed overwhelmed me with thy favours and well-
doings; but I weary for a sight of my friends and family and
native country." When he heard this, he summoned the merchants in
question and commended me to their care, paying my freight and
passage-money. Then he bestowed on me great riches from his
treasuries and charged me with a magnificent present for the
Caliph Harun al-Rashid. Moreover he gave me a sealed letter,
saying, "Carry this with thine own hand to the Commander of the
Faithful and give him many salutations from us!" "Hearing and
obedience," I replied. The missive was written on the skin of the
Khawi[FN#84] (which is finer than lamb-parchment and of yellow
colour), with ink of ultramarine and the contents were as
follows. "Peace be with thee from the King of Al-Hind, before
whom are a thousand elephants and upon whose palace-crenelles are
a thousand jewels. But after (laud to the Lord and praises to His
Prophet!): we send thee a trifling gift which be thou pleased to
accept. Thou art to us a brother and a sincere friend; and great
is the love we bear for thee in heart; favour us therefore with a
reply. The gift besitteth not thy dignity: but we beg of thee, O
our brother, graciously to accept it and peace be with thee." And
the present was a cup of ruby a span high[FN#85] the inside of
which was adorned with precious pearls; and a bed covered with
the skin of the serpent which swalloweth the elephant, which skin
hath spots each like a dinar and whoso sitteth upon it never
sickeneth;[FN#86] and an hundred thousand miskals of Indian lign-
aloes and a slave-girl like a shining moon. Then I took leave of
him and of all my intimates and acquaintances in the island and
embarked with the merchants aforesaid. We sailed with a fair
wind, committing ourselves to the care of Allah (be He extolled
and exalted!) and by His permission arrived at Bassorah, where I
passed a few days and nights equipping myself and packing up my
bales. Then I went on to Baghdad-city, the House of Peace, where
I sought an audience of the Caliph and laid the King's presents
before him. He asked me whence they came and I said to him, "By
Allah, O Commander of the Faithful, I know not the name of the
city nor the way thither!" He then asked me, "O Sindbad, is this
true which the King writeth?"; and I answered, after kissing the
ground, "O my lord, I saw in his kingdom much more than he hath
written in his letter. For state processions a throne is set for
him upon a huge elephant, eleven cubits high: and upon this he
sitteth having his great lords and officers and guests standing
in two ranks, on his right hand and on his left. At his head is a
man hending in hand a golden javelin and behind him another with
a great mace of gold whose head is an emerald[FN#87] a span long
and as thick as a man's thumb. And when he mounteth horse there
mount with him a thousand horsemen clad in gold brocade and silk;
and as the King proceedeth a man precedeth him, crying, 'This is
the King of great dignity, of high authority!' And he continueth
to repeat his praises in words I remember not, saying at the end
of his panegyric, 'This is the King owning the crown whose like
nor Solomon nor the Mihraj[FN#88] ever possessed.' Then he is
silent and one behind him proclaimeth, saying, 'He will die!
Again I say he will die!;' and the other addeth, 'Extolled be the
perfection of the Living who dieth not!'[FN#89] Moreover by
reason of his justice and ordinance and intelligence, there is no
Kazi in his city, and all his lieges distinguish between Truth
and Falsehood." Quoth the Caliph, "How great is this King! His
letter hath shown me this; and as for the mightiness of his
dominion thou hast told us what thou hast eye-witnessed. By
Allah, he hath been endowed with wisdom as with wide rule." Then
I related to the Commander of the Faithful all that had befallen
me in my last voyage; at which he wondered exceedingly and bade
his historians record my story and store it up in his treasuries,
for the edification of all who might see it. Then he conferred on
me exceeding great favours, and I repaired to my quarter and
entered my home, where I warehoused all my goods and possessions.
Presently, my friends came to me and I distributed presents among
my family and gave alms and largesse; after which I yielded
myself to joyance and enjoyment, mirth and merry-making, and
forgot all that I had suffered. "Such, then, O my brothers, is
the history of what befel me in my sixth voyage, and to-morrow,
Inshallah! I will tell you the story of my seventh and last
voyage, which is still more wondrous and marvellous than that of
the first six." (Saith he who telleth the tale), Then he bade lay
the table, and the company supped with him; after which he gave
the Porter an hundred dinars, as of wont, and they all went their
ways, marvelling beyond measure at that which they had heard.--
And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her
permitted say.

      When it was the Five Hundred and Sixty-third Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when
Sindbad the Seaman had related the history of what befel him in
his sixth voyage, and all the company had dispersed, Sindbad the
Landsman went home and slept as of wont. Next day he rose and
prayed the dawn-prayer and repaired to his namesake's house
where, after the company was all assembled, the host began to
relate



The Seventh Voyage of Sindbad the Seaman.



Know, O company, that after my return from my sixth voyage, which
brought me abundant profit, I resumed my former life in all
possible joyance and enjoyment and mirth and making merry day and
night; and I tarried some time in this solace and satisfaction
till my soul began once more to long to sail the seas and see
foreign countries and company with merchants and hear new things.
So having made up my mind, I packed up in bales a quantity of
precious stuffs suited for sea-trade and repaired with them from
Baghdad-city to Bassorah-town, where I found a ship ready for
sea, and in her a company of considerable merchants. I shipped
with them and becoming friends, we set forth on our venture, in
health and safety; and sailed with a fair wind, till we came to a
city called Madinat-al-Sin; but after we had left it, as we fared
on in all cheer and confidence, devising of traffic and travel,
behold, there sprang up a violent head-wind and a tempest of rain
fell on us and drenched us and our goods. So we covered the bales
with our cloaks and garments and drugget and canvas, lest they be
spoiled by the rain, and betook ourselves to prayer and
supplication to Almighty Allah and humbled ourselves before Him
for deliverance from the peril that was upon us. But the captain
arose and tightening his girdle tucked up his skirts and, after
taking refuge with Allah from Satan the Stoned, clomb to the
mast-head, whence he looked out right and left and gazing at the
passengers and crew fell to buffeting his face and plucking out
his beard. So we cried to him, "O Rais, what is the matter?"; and
he replied saying, "Seek ye deliverance of the Most High from the
strait into which we have fallen and bemoan yourselves and take
leave of one another; for know that the wind hath gotten the
mastery of us and hath driven us into the uttermost of the seas
of the world." Then he came down from the mast-head and opening
his sea-chest, pulled out a bag of blue cotton, from which he
took a powder like ashes. This he set in a saucer wetted with a
little water and, after waiting a short time, smelt and tasted
it; and then he took out of the chest a booklet, wherein he read
awhile and said weeping, "Know, O ye passengers, that in this
book is a marvellous matter, denoting that whoso cometh hither
shall surely die, without hope of escape; for that this ocean is
called the Sea of the Clime of the King, wherein is the sepulchre
of our lord Solomon, son of David (on both be peace!) and therein
are serpents of vast bulk and fearsome aspect: and what ship
soever cometh to these climes there riseth to her a great
fish[FN#90] out of the sea and swalloweth her up with all and
everything on board her." Hearing these words from the captain
great was our wonder, but hardly had he made an end of speaking,
when the ship was lifted out of the water and let fall again and
we applied to praying the death-prayer[FN#91] and committing our
souls to Allah. Presently we heard a terrible great cry like the
loud-pealing thunder, whereat we were terror-struck and became as
dead men, giving ourselves up for lost. Then behold, there came
up to us a huge fish, as big as a tall mountain, at whose sight
we became wild for affight and, weeping sore, made ready for
death, marvelling at its vast size and gruesome semblance; when
lo! a second fish made its appearance than which we had seen
naught more monstrous. So we bemoaned ourselves of our lives and
farewelled one another; but suddenly up came a third fish bigger
than the two first; whereupon we lost the power of thought and
reason and were stupefied for the excess of our fear and horror.
Then the three fish began circling round about the ship and the
third and biggest opened his mouth to swallow it, and we looked
into its mouth and behold, it was wider than the gate of a city
and its throat was like a long valley. So we besought the
Almighty and called for succour upon His Apostle (on whom be
blessing and peace!), when suddenly a violent squall of wind
arose and smote the ship, which rose out of the water and settled
upon a great reef, the haunt of sea-monsters, where it broke up
and fell asunder into planks and all and everything on board were
plunged into the sea. As for me, I tore off all my clothes but my
gown and swam a little way, till I happened upon one of the
ship's planks whereto I clung and bestrode it like a horse,
whilst the winds and the waters sported with me and the waves
carried me up and cast me down; and I was in most piteous plight
for fear and distress and hunger and thirst. Then I reproached
myself for what I had done and my soul was weary after a life of
ease and comfort; and I said to myself, "O Sindbad, O Seaman,
thou repentest not and yet thou art ever suffering hardships and
travails; yet wilt thou not renounce sea-travel; or, an thou say,
'I renounce,' thou liest in thy renouncement. Endure then with
patience that which thou sufferest, for verily thou deservest all
that betideth thee!"--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and
ceased to say her permitted say.

      When it was the Five Hundred and Sixty-fourth Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Sindbad the
Seaman continued:--But when I had bestridden the plank, quoth I
to myself, "Thou deservest all that betideth thee. All this is
decreed to me of Allah (whose name be exalted!), to turn me from
my greed of gain, whence ariseth all that I endure, for I have
wealth galore." Then I returned to my senses and said, "In very
sooth, this time I repent to the Most High, with a sincere
repentance, of my lust for gain and venture; and never will I
again name travel with tongue nor in thought." And I ceased not
to humble myself before Almighty Allah and weep and bewail
myself, recalling my former estate of solace and satisfaction and
mirth and merriment and joyance; and thus I abode two days, at
the end of which time I came to a great island abounding in trees
and streams. There I landed and ate of the fruits of the island
and drank of its waters, till I was refreshed and my life
returned to me and my strength and spirits were restored and I
recited,

"Oft when thy case shows knotty and tangled skein, * Fate downs
     from Heaven and straightens every ply:
In patience keep thy soul till clear thy lot * For He who ties
     the knot can eke untie."

Then I walked about, till I found on the further side, a great
river of sweet water, running with a strong current; whereupon I
called to mind the boat-raft I had made aforetime and said to
myself, "Needs must I make another; haply I may free me from this
strait. If I escape, I have my desire and I vow to Allah Almighty
to foreswear travel; and if I perish I shall be at peace and
shall rest from toil and moil." So I rose up and gathered
together great store of pieces of wood from the trees (which were
all of the finest sanders-wood, whose like is not albe I knew it
not), and made shift to twist creepers and tree-twigs into a kind
of rope, with which I bound the billets together and so contrived
a raft. Then saying, "An I be saved, 'tis of God's grace," I
embarked thereon and committed myself to the current, and it bore
me on for the first day and the second and the third after
leaving the island; whilst I lay in the raft, eating not and
drinking, when I was athirst, of the water of the river, till I
was weak and giddy as a chicken, for stress of fatigue and famine
and fear. At the end of this time I came to a high mountain,
whereunder ran the river; which when I saw, I feared for my life
by reason of the straitness I had suffered in my former journey,
and I would fain have stayed the raft and landed on the mountain-
side; but the current overpowered me and drew it into the
subterranean passage like an archway; whereupon I gave myself up
for lost and said, "There is no Majesty and there is no Might
save in Allah, the Glorious, the Great!" However, after a little,
the raft glided into open air and I saw before me a wide valley,
whereinto the river fell with a noise like the rolling of thunder
and a swiftness as the rushing of the wind. I held on to the
raft, for fear of falling off it, whilst the waves tossed me
right and left; and the craft continued to descend with the
current nor could I avail to stop it nor turn it shorewards, till
it stopped with me at a great and goodly city, grandly edified
and containing much people. And when the townsfolk saw me on the
raft, dropping down with the current, they threw me out ropes
which I had not strength enough to hold; then they tossed a net
over the craft and drew it ashore with me, whereupon I fell to
the ground amidst them, as I were a dead man, for stress of fear
and hunger and lack of sleep. After awhile, there came up to me
out of the crowd an old man of reverend aspect, well stricken in
years, who welcomed me and threw over me abundance of handsome
clothes, wherewith I covered my nakedness. Then he carried me to
the Hammam-bath and brought me cordial sherbets and delicious
perfumes; moreover, when I came out, he bore me to his house,
where his people made much of me and, seating me in a pleasant
place, set rich food before me, whereof I ate my fill and
returned thanks to God the Most High for my deliverance.
Thereupon his pages fetched me hot water, and I washed my hands,
and his handmaids brought me silken napkins, with which I dried
them and wiped my mouth. Also the Shaykh set apart for me an
apartment in a part of his house and charged his pages and slave-
girls to wait upon me and do my will and supply my wants. They
were assiduous in my service, and I abode with him in the guest-
chamber three days, taking my ease of good eating and good
drinking and good scents till life returned to me and my terrors
subsided and my heart was calmed and my mind was eased. On the
fourth day the Shaykh, my host, came in to me and said, "Thou
cheerest us with thy company, O my son, and praised be Allah for
thy safety! Say: wilt thou now come down with me to the beach and
the bazar and sell thy goods and take their price? Belike thou
mayst buy thee wherewithal to traffic. I have ordered my servants
to remove thy stock-in-trade from the sea and they have piled it
on the shore." I was silent awhile and said to myself, "What mean
these words and what goods have I?" Then said he, "O my son, be
not troubled nor careful, but come with me to the market and if
any offer for thy goods what price contenteth thee, take it; but,
an thou be not satisfied, I will lay them up for thee in my
warehouse, against a fitting occasion for sale." So I bethought
me of my case and said to myself, "Do his bidding and see what
are these goods!"; and I said to him, "O my nuncle the Shaykh, I
hear and I obey; I may not gainsay thee in aught for Allah's
blessing is on all thou dost." Accordingly he guided me to the
market-street, where I found that he had taken in pieces the raft
which carried me and which was of sandal-wood and I heard the
broker calling it for sale.--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of
day and ceased saying her permitted say.

      When it was the Five Hundred and Sixty-fifth Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Sindbad the
Seaman thus resumed his tale:--I found that the Shaykh had taken
to pieces my raft which lay on the beach and the broker was
crying the sandal-wood for sale. Then the merchants came and
opened the gate of bidding for the wood and bid against one
another till its price reached a thousand dinars, when they left
bidding and my host said to me, "Hear, O my son, this is the
current price of thy goods in hard times like these: wilt thou
sell them for this or shall I lay them up for thee in my
storehouses, till such time as prices rise?" "O my lord,"
answered I, "the business is in thy hands: do as thou wilt." Then
asked he, "Wilt thou sell the wood to me, O my son, for an
hundred gold pieces over and above what the merchants have bidden
for it?" and I answered, "Yes, I have sold it to thee for monies
received."[FN#92] So, he bade his servants transport the wood to
his storehouses and, carrying me back to his house, seated me and
counted out to me the purchase money; after which he laid it in
bags and setting them in a privy place, locked them up with an
iron padlock and gave me its key. Some days after this, the
Shaykh said to me, "O my son, I have somewhat to propose to thee,
wherein I trust thou wilt do my bidding." Quoth I, "What is it?"
Quoth he, "I am a very old man and have no son; but I have a
daughter who is young in years and fair of favour and endowed
with abounding wealth and beauty. Now I have a mind to marry her
to thee, that thou mayst abide with her in this our country, and
I will make thee master of all I have in hand for I am an old man
and thou shalt stand in my stead." I was silent for shame and
made him no answer, whereupon he continued, "Do my desire in
this, O my son, for I wish but thy weal; and if thou wilt but do
as I say, thou shalt have her at once and be as my son; and all
that is under my hand or that cometh to me shall be thine. If
thou have a mind to traffic and travel to thy native land, none
shall hinder thee, and thy property will be at thy sole disposal;
so do as thou wilt." "By Allah, O my uncle," replied I, "thou art
become to me even as my father, and I am a stranger and have
undergone many hardships: while for stress of that which I have
suffered naught of judgment or knowledge is left to me. It is for
thee, therefore, to decide what I shall do." Hereupon he sent his
servants for the Kazi and the witnesses and married me to his
daughter making us for a noble marriage-feast[FN#93] and high
festival. When I went in to her, I found her perfect in beauty
and loveliness and symmetry and grace, clad in rich raiment and
covered with a profusion of ornaments and necklaces and other
trinkets of gold and silver and precious stones, worth a mint of
money, a price none could pay. She pleased me and we loved each
other; and I abode with her in solace and delight of life, till
her father was taken to the mercy of Allah Almighty. So we
shrouded him and buried him, and I laid hands on the whole of his
property and all his servants and slaves became mine. Moreover,
the merchants installed me in his office, for he was their Shaykh
and their Chief; and none of them purchased aught but with his
knowledge and by his leave. And now his rank passed on to me.
When I became acquainted with the townsfolk, I found that at the
beginning of each month they were transformed, in that their
faces changed and they became like birds and they put forth wings
wherewith they flew unto the upper regions of the firmament and
none remained in the city save the women and children; and I said
in my mind, "When the first of the month cometh, I will ask one
of them to carry me with them, whither they go." So when the time
came and their complexion changed and their forms altered, I went
in to one of the townsfolk and said to him, "Allah upon thee!
carry me with thee, that I might divert myself with the rest and
return with you." "This may not be," answered he; but I ceased
not to solicit him and I importuned him till he consented. Then I
went out in his company, without telling any of my family[FN#94]
or servants or friends, and he took me on his back and flew up
with me so high in air, that I heard the angels glorifying God in
the heavenly dome, whereat I wondered and exclaimed, "Praised be
Allah! Extolled be the perfection of Allah!" Hardly had I made an
end of pronouncing the Tasbih--praised be Allah!--when there came
out a fire from heaven and all but consumed the company;
whereupon they fled from it and descended with curses upon me
and, casting me down on a high mountain, went away, exceeding
wroth with me, and left me there alone. As I found myself in this
plight, I repented of what I had done and reproached myself for
having undertaken that for which I was unable, saying, "There is
no Majesty and there is no Might, save in Allah, the Glorious,
the Great! No sooner am I delivered from one affliction than I
fall into a worse." And I continued in this case knowing not
whither I should go, when lo! there came up two young men, as
they were moons, each using as a staff a rod of red gold. So I
approached them and saluted them; and when they returned my
salam, I said to them, "Allah upon you twain; who are ye and what
are ye?" Quoth they, "We are of the servants of the Most High
Allah, abiding in this mountain;" and, giving me a rod of red
gold they had with them, went their ways and left me. I walked on
along the mountain-ridge staying my steps with the staff and
pondering the case of the two youths, when behold, a serpent came
forth from under the mountain, with a man in her[FN#95] jaws,
whom she had swallowed even to below his navel, and he was crying
out and saying, "Whoso delivereth me, Allah will deliver him from
all adversity!" So I went up to the serpent and smote her on the
head with the golden staff, whereupon she cast the man forth of
her mouth.--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to
say her permitted say.

      When it was the Five Hundred and Sixty-sixth Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Sindbad the
Seaman thus continued:--When I smote the serpent on the head with
my golden staff she cast the man forth of her mouth. Then I smote
her a second time, and she turned and fled; whereupon he came up
to me and said, "Since my deliverance from yonder serpent hath
been at thy hands I will never leave thee, and thou shalt be my
comrade on this mountain." "And welcome," answered I; so we fared
on along the mountain, till we fell in with a company of folk,
and I looked and saw amongst them the very man who had carried me
and cast me down there. I went up to him and spake him fair,
excusing myself to him and saying, "O my comrade, it is not thus
that friend should deal with friend." Quoth he, "It was thou who
well-nigh destroyed us by thy Tasbih and thy glorifying God on my
back." Quoth I, "Pardon me, for I had no knowledge of this
matter; but, if thou wilt take me with thee, I swear not to say a
word." So he relented and consented to carry me with him, but he
made an express condition that, so long as I abode on his back, I
should abstain from pronouncing the Tasbih or otherwise
glorifying God. Then I gave the wand of gold to him whom I had
delivered from the serpent and bade him farewell, and my friend
took me on his back and flew with me as before, till he brought
me to the city and set me down in my own house. My wife came to
meet me and saluting me gave me joy of my safety and then said,
"Beware of going forth hereafter with yonder folk, neither
consort with them, for they are brethren of the devils, and know
not how to mention the name of Allah Almighty; neither worship
they Him." "And how did thy father with them?" asked I; and she
answered, "My father was not of them, neither did he as they; and
as now he is dead methinks thou hadst better sell all we have and
with the price buy merchandise and journey to thine own country
and people, and I with thee; for I care not to tarry in this
city, my father and my mother being dead." So I sold all the
Shaykh's property piecemeal, and looked for one who should be
journeying thence to Bassorah that I might join myself to him.
And while thus doing I heard of a company of townsfolk who had a
mind to make the voyage, but could not find them a ship; so they
bought wood and built them a great ship wherein I took passage
with them, and paid them all the hire. Then we embarked, I and my
wife, with all our moveables, leaving our houses and domains and
so forth, and set sail, and ceased not sailing from island to
island and from sea to sea, with a fair wind and a favouring,
till we arrived at Bassorah safe and sound. I made no stay there,
but freighted another vessel and, transferring my goods to her,
set out forthright for Baghdad-city, where I arrived in safety,
and entering my quarter and repairing to my house, foregathered
with my family and friends and familiars who laid up my goods in
my warehouses. When my people who, reckoning the period of my
absence on this my seventh voyage, had found it to be seven and
twenty years, and had given up all hope of me, heard of my
return, they came to welcome me and to give me joy of my safety;
and I related to them all that had befallen me; whereat they
marvelled with exceeding marvel. Then I forswore travel and vowed
to Allah the Most High I would venture no more by land or sea,
for that this seventh and last voyage had surfeited me of travel
and adventure; and I thanked the Lord (be He praised and
glorified!), and blessed Him for having restored me to my kith
and kin and country and home. "Consider, therefore, O Sindbad, O
Landsman," continued Sindbad the Seaman, "what sufferings I have
undergone and what perils and hardships I have endured before
coming to my present state." "Allah upon thee, O my Lord!"
answered Sindbad the Landsman, "pardon me the wrong I did
thee."[FN#96] And they ceased not from friendship and fellowship,
abiding in all cheer and pleasures and solace of life till there
came to them the Destoyer of delights and the Sunderer of
Societies, and the Shatterer of palaces and the Caterer for
Cemeteries to wit, the Cup of Death, and glory be to the Living
One who dieth not!"[FN#97]




                        A Translation of
            The Seventh Voyage of Sindbad the Seaman
                                
                          according to
                       the version of the
                        Calcutta Edition
                                
                which differs in essential form
                       from the preceding
                              tale


Know, O my brothers and friends and companions all, that when I
left voyaging and commercing, I said in myself, "Sufficeth me
that hath befallen me;" and I spent my time in solace and
pleasure. One day as I sat at home there came a knock at the
door, and when the porter opened a page entered and said, "The
Caliph biddeth thee to him." I went with him to the King's
majesty and kissed ground and saluted him; whereupon he welcomed
me and entreated me with honour and said, "O Sindbad, I have an
occasion for thee: wilt thou do it?" So I kissed his hand and
asked him, saying, "O my lord, what occasion hath the master for
the slave?"; whereto he answered me, "I am minded that thou
travel to the King of Sarandib and carry to him our writ and our
gift, for that he hath sent to us a present and a letter. I
trembled at these words and rejoined, "By Allah the Omnipotent, O
my lord, I have taken a loathing to wayfare, and when I hear the
words 'Voyage' or 'Travel,' my limbs tremble for what hath
befallen me of hardships and horrors. Indeed I have no desire
whatever for this; more by token as I have bound myself by oath
not to quit Baghdad." Then I informed the Caliph of all I had
passed through from first to last, and he marvelled with
exceeding marvel and said, "By the Almighty, O Sindbad, from ages
of old such mishaps as happened to thee were never know to happen
to any, and thou dost only right never even to talk of travel.
For our sake, however, thou wilt go this time and carry our
present and our letter to him of Sarandib; and Inshallah--by
God's leave!--thou shalt return quickly; and on this wise we
shall be under no obligation to the said King." I replied that I
heard and obeyed, being unable to oppose his command, so he gave
me the gifts and the missive with money to pay my way and I
kissed hands and left the presence. Then I dropped down from
Baghdad to the Gulf, and with other merchants embarked, and our
ship sailed before a fair wind many days and nights till, by
Allah's aid, we reached the island of Sarandib. As soon as we had
made fast we landed and I took the present and the letter; and,
going in with them to the King, kissed ground before him. When he
saw me, he said, "Well come, O Sindbad! By Allah Omnipotent we
were longing to see thee, and glory be to God who hath again
shown us thy face!" Then taking me by the hand he made me sit by
his side, rejoicing, and he welcomed me with familiar kindness
again and entreated me as a friend. After this he began to
converse with me and courteously addressed me and asked, "What
was the cause of thy coming to us, O Sindbad?" So after kissing
his hand and thanking him I answered, "O my lord, I have brought
thee a present from my master, the Caliph Harun Al-Rashid;" and
offered him the present and the letter which he read and at which
he rejoiced with passing joy. The present consisted of a mare
worth ten thousand ducats, bearing a golden saddle set with
jewels; a book; a sumptuous suit of clothes and an hundred
different kinds of white Cairene cloths and silks of Suez,[FN#98]
Cufa and Alexandria; Greek carpets and an hundred maunds[FN#99]
weight of linen and raw silk. Moreover there was a wondrous
rarety, a marvellous cup of crystal middlemost of which was the
figure of a lion faced by a kneeling man grasping a bow with
arrow drawn to the very head, together with the food-tray[FN#100]
of Sulayman the son of David (on whom be peace!). The missive ran
as follows, "Peace from King Al-Rashid, the aided of Allah (who
hath vouchsafed to him and his forefathers noble rank and wide-
spread glory), be on the fortunate Sultan. But after. Thy letter
came to our hands and we rejoiced thereat; and we have sent the
book entitled 'Delight of the Intelligent and for Friends the
Rare Present,'[FN#101] together with sundry curiosities suitable
for Kings; so do thou favour us by accepting them: and peace be
with thee!" Then the King lavished upon me much wealth and
entreated me with all honour; so I prayed for him and thanked him
for his munificence. Some days after I craved his leave to
depart, but could not obtain it except by great pressing,
whereupon I farewelled him and fared forth from his city, with
merchants and other companions, homewards-bound without any
desire for travel or companions, homewards-bound without any
desire for travel or trade. We continued voyaging and coasting
along many islands; but, when we were half-way, we were
surrounded by a number of canoes, wherein were men like devils
armed with bows and arrows, swords and daggers; habited in mail-
coats and other armoury. They fell upon us and wounded and slew
all who opposed them; then, having captured the ship and her
contents, carried us to an island, where they sold us at the
meanest price. Now I was bought by a wealthy man who, taking me
to his house, gave me meat and drink and clothing and treated me
in the friendliest manner; so I was heartened and I rested a
little. One day he asked me, "Dost thou know any art or craft?"
and I answered him, "O my lord, I am a merchant and know nothing
but trade and traffic." "Dost thou know," rejoined he, "how to
use bow and arrow?" "Yes," replied I, "I know that much."
Thereupon he brought me a bow and arrows and mounted me behind
him upon an elephant: then he set out as night was well nigh over
and, passing through a forest of huge growths, came to a tall and
sturdy tree up which he made me climb. Then he gave me the bow
and arrows, saying, "Sit here now, and when the elephants troop
hither in early morning, shoot at them; belike thou wilt hit one;
and, if he fall, come and tell me." With this he left me. I hid
myself in the tree being in sore terror and trembled till the sun
arose; and, when the elephants appeared and wandered about among
the trees, I shot my arrows at them and continued till I had shot
down one of them. In the evening I reported my success to my
master who was delighted in me and entreated me with high honour;
and next morning he removed the slain elephant. In this wise I
continued, every morning shooting an elephant which my master
would remove till, one day, as I was perched in hiding on the
tree there came on suddenly and unexpectedly an innumerable host
of elephants whose screaming and trumpeting were such that I
imagined the earth trembled under them. All surrounded my tree,
whose circumference was some fifty cubits,[FN#102] and one
enormous monster came up to it and winding his trunk round the
bole haled it up by the roots, and dashed it to the ground. I
fell down fainting amongst the beasts when the monster elephant
wound his trunk about me and, setting me on his back, went off
with me, the others accompanying us. He carried me still
unconscious till he reached the place for which he was making,
when he rolled me off his back and presently went his ways
followed by the others. So I rested a little; and, when my terror
had subsided, I looked about me and I found myself among the
bones of elephants, whereby I concluded that this was their
burial-place, and that the monster elephant had led me thither on
account of the tusks.[FN#103] So I arose and walked a whole day
and night till I arrived at the house of my master, who saw my
colour changed by stress of affright and famine. He rejoiced in
my return and said to me, "By Allah, thou hast made my heart
sore! I went when thou wast missing and found the tree torn up,
and thought that the elephants had slain thee. Tell me how it was
with thee." I acquainted him with all that had betided me;
whereat he wondered greatly, and rejoiced and at last asked me,
"Dost thou know the place?"; whereto I answered, "Yes, O my
master!" So we mounted an elephant and fared until we came to the
spot and, when my master beheld the heaps of tusks, he rejoiced
greatly; then carrying away as many as he wanted he returned with
me home. After this, he entreated me with increased favour and
said, "O my son, thou hast shown us the way to great gain,
wherefore Allah requite thee! Thou art freed for the Almighty's
sake and before His face! The elephants used to destroy many of
us on account of our hunting them for their ivories and
sorivellos; but Allah hath preserved thee from them, and thou
hast profited us by the heaps to which thou hast led us." "O my
master," replied I, "God free thy neck from the fire! And do thou
grant me, O my master, thy gracious leave to return to my own
country." "Yes" quoth he, "thou shalt have that permission. But
we have a yearly fair, when merchants come to us from various
quarters to buy up these ivories. The time is drawing near; and,
when they shall have done their business, I will send thee under
their charge and will give thee wherewithal to reach thy home."
So I blessed and thanked him and remained with him, treated with
respect and honour, for some days, when the merchants came as he
had foretold, and bought and sold and bartered; and when they had
made their preparations to return, my master came to me and said,
"Rise and get thee ready to travel with the traders en route to
thy country." They had bought a number of tusks which they had
bound together in loads and were embarking them when my master
sent me with them, paying for my passage and settling all my
debts; besides which he gave me a large present in goods. We set
out and voyaged from island to island till we had crossed the sea
and landed on the shores of the Persian Gulf, when the merchants
brought out and sold their stores: I also sold what I had at a
high profit; and I bought some of the prettiest things in the
place for presents and beautiful rareties and everything else I
wanted. I likewise bought for myself a beast and we fared forth
and crossed the deserts from country to country till I reached
Baghdad. Here I went in to the Caliph and, after saluting him and
kissing hands, informed him of all that had befallen me;
whereupon he rejoiced in my safety and thanked Almighty Allah;
and he bade my story be written in letters of gold. I then
entered my house and met my family and brethren: and such is the
end of the history that happened to me during my seven voyages.
Praise be to Allah, the One, the Creator, the Maker of all things
in Heaven and Earth!--

Now when Shahrazad had ended her story of the two Sindbads,
Dinarzad exclaimed, "O my sister, how pleasant is thy tale and
how tasteful! How sweet and how grateful!" She replied, "And what
is this compared with that I could tell thee tomorrow night?"
Quoth the King, "What may it be?" And she said:--It is a tale
touching



               THE CITY OF BRASS.[FN#104]       



It is related that there was, in tide of yore and in times and
years long gone before, at Damascus of Syria, a Caliph known as
Abd al-Malik bin Marwan, the fifth of the Ommiade house. As this
Commander of the Faithful was seated one day in his palace,
conversing with his Sultans and Kings and the Grandees of his
empire, the talk turned upon the legends of past peoples and the
traditions of our lord Solomon, David's son (on the twain be
peace!), and on that which Allah Almighty had bestowed on him of
lordship and dominion over men and Jinn and birds and beasts and
reptiles and the wind and other created things; and quoth the
Caliph, "Of a truth we hear from those who forewent us that the
Lord (extolled and exalted be He!) vouchsafed unto none the like
of that which He vouchsafed unto our lord Solomon and that he
attained unto that whereto never attained other than he, in that
he was wont to imprison Jinns and Marids and Satans in cucurbites
of copper and to stop them with lead and seal[FN#105] them with
his ring."--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased
saying her permitted say.

     When it was the Five Hundred and Sixty-seventh Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when the
Caliph Abd al-Malik bin Marwan sat conversing with his Grandees
concerning our lord Solomon, and these noted what Allah had
bestowed upon him of lordship and dominion, quoth the Commander
of the Faithful, "Indeed he attained unto that whereto never
attained other than he, in that he was wont to imprison Jinns and
Marids and Satans in cucurbites of copper and stop them with lead
and seal them with his ring." Then said Talib bin Sahl (who was a
seeker after treasures and had books that discovered to him
hoards and wealth hidden under the earth), "O Commander of the
Faithful,--Allah make thy dominion to endure and exalt thy
dignity here and hereafter!--my father told me of my grandfather,
that he once took ship with a company, intending for the island
of Sikiliyah or Sicily, and sailed until there arose against them
a contrary wind, which drove them from their course and brought
them, after a month, to a great mountain in one of the lands of
Allah the Most High, but where that land was they wot not. Quoth
my grandfather:--'This was in the darkness of the night and as
soon as it was day, there came forth to us, from the caves of the
mountain, folk black of colour and naked of body, as they were
wild beasts, understanding not one word of what was addressed to
them; nor was there any of them who knew Arabic, save their King
who was of their own kind. When he saw the ship, he came down to
it with a company of his followers and saluting us, bade us
welcome and questioned us of our case and our faith. We told him
all concerning ourselves and he said, 'Be of good cheer for no
harm shall befal you.' And when we, in turn, asked them of their
faith, we found that each was of one of the many creeds
prevailing before the preaching of Al-Islam and the mission of
Mohammed, whom may Allah bless and keep! So my shipmates
remarked, We wot not what thou sayest.' Then quoth the King, 'No
Adam-son hath ever come to our land before you: but fear not, and
rejoice in the assurance of safety and of return to your own
country.' Then he entertained us three days, feeding us on the
flesh of birds and wild beasts and fishes, than which they had no
other meat; and, on the fourth day, he carried us down to the
beach, that we might divert ourselves by looking upon the fisher-
folk. There we saw a man casting his net to catch fish, and
presently he pulled them up and behold, in them was a cucurbite
of copper, stopped with lead and sealed with the signet of
Solomon, son of David, on whom be peace! He brought the vessel to
land and broke it open, when there came forth a smoke, which rose
a-twisting blue to the zenith, and we heard a horrible voice,
saying, 'I repent! I repent! Pardon, O Prophet of Allah! I will
never return to that which I did aforetime.' Then the smoke
became a terrible Giant frightful of form, whose head was level
with the mountain-tops, and he vanished from our sight, whilst
our hearts were well-nigh torn out for terror; but the blacks
thought nothing of it. Then we returned to the King and
questioned him of the matter; whereupon quoth he, 'Know that this
was one of the Jinns whom Solomon, son of David, being wroth with
them, shut up in these vessels and cast into the sea, after
stopping the mouths with melted lead. Our fishermen ofttimes, in
casting their nets, bring up such bottles, which being broken
open, there come forth of them Jinnis who, deeming that Solomon
is still alive and can pardon them, make their submission to him
and say, I repent, O Prophet of Allah!'" The Caliph marvelled at
Talib's story and said, "Glory be to God! Verily, to Solomon was
given a mighty dominion." Now al-Nabighah al-Zubyani[FN#106] was
present, and he said, "Talib hath spoken soothly as is proven by
the saying of the All-wise, the Primaeval One, 

'And Solomon, when Allah to him said, * 'Rise, be thou Caliph,
     rule with righteous sway:
Honour obedience for obeying thee; * And who rebels imprison him
     for aye'

Wherefore he used to put them in copper-bottles and cast them
into the sea." The poet's words seemed good to the Caliph, and he
said, "By Allah, I long to look upon some of these Solomonic
vessels, which must be a warning to whoso will be warned." "O
Commander of the Faithful," replied Talib, "it is in thy power to
do so, without stirring abroad. Send to thy brother Abd al-Aziz
bin Marwan, so he may write to Musa bin Nusayr,[FN#107] governor
of the Maghrib or Morocco, bidding him take horse thence to the
mountains whereof I spoke and fetch thee therefrom as many of
such cucurbites as thou hast a mind to; for those mountains
adjoin the frontiers of his province." The Caliph approved his
counsel and said "Thou hast spoken sooth, O Talib, and I desire
that, touching this matter, thou be my messenger to Musa bin
Nusayr; wherefore thou shalt have the White Flag[FN#108] and all
thou hast a mind to of monies and honour and so forth; and I will
care for thy family during shine absence." "With love and
gladness, O Commander of the Faithful!" answered Talib. "Go, with
the blessing of Allah and His aid," quoth the Caliph, and bade
write a letter to his brother, Abd al-Aziz, his viceroy in Egypt,
and another to Musa bin Nusayr, his viceroy in North Western
Africa, bidding him go himself in quest of the Solomonic bottles,
leaving his son to govern in his stead. Moreover, he charged him
to engage guides and to spare neither men nor money, nor to be
remiss in the matter as he would take no excuse. Then he sealed
the two letters and committed them to Talib bin Sahl, bidding him
advance the royal ensigns before him and make his utmost speed
and he gave him treasure and horsemen and footmen, to further him
on his way, and made provision for the wants of his household
during his absence. So Talib set out and arrived in due course at
Cairo.[FN#109]--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and
ceased to say her permitted say.

      When it was the Five Hundred and Sixty-eighth Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Talib bin
Sahl set out with his escort and crossed the desert country
between Syria and Egypt, where the Governor came out to meet him
and entreated him and his company with high honour whilst they
tarried with him. Then he gave them a guide to bring them to the
Sa'id or Upper Egypt, where the Emir Musa had his abiding-place;
and when the son of Nusayr heard of Talib's coming, he went forth
to meet him and rejoiced in him. Talib gave him the Caliph's
letter, and he took it reverently and, laying it on his head,
cried, "I hear and I obey the Prince of the Faithful." Then he
deemed it best to assemble his chief officers and when all were
present he acquainted them with the contents of the Caliph's
letter and sought counsel of them how he should act. "O Emir,"
answered they, "if thou seek one who shall guide thee to the
place summon the Shaykh 'Abd al-Samad, ibn 'Abd al-Kuddus, al-
Samudi;[FN#110] for he is a man of varied knowledge, who hath
travelled much and knoweth by experience all the seas and wastes
and words and countries of the world and the inhabitants and
wonders thereof; wherefore send thou for him and he will surely
guide thee to thy desire." So Musa sent for him, and behold, he
was a very ancient man shot in years and broken down with lapse
of days. The Emir saluted him and said, "O Shaykh Abd al-Samad,
our lord the Commander of the Faithful, Abd al-Malik bin Marwan'
hath commanded me thus and thus. I have small knowledge of the
land wherein is that which the Caliph desireth; but it is told me
that thou knowest it well and the ways thither. Wilt thou,
therefore, go with me and help me to accomplish the Caliph's
need? So it please Allah the Most High, thy trouble and travail
shall not go waste." Replied the Shaykh, "I hear and obey the
bidding of the Commander of the Faithful; but know, O Emir, that
the road thither is long and difficult and the ways few." "How
far is it?" asked Musa, and the Shaykh answered, "It is a journey
of two years and some months going and the like returning; and
the way is full of hardships and terrors and things wondrous and
marvellous. Now thou art a champion of the Faith[FN#111] and our
country is hard by that of the enemy; and peradventure the
Nazarenes may come out upon us in shine absence; wherefore it
behoveth thee to leave one to rule thy government in thy stead."
"It is well," answered the Emir and appointed his son Harun
Governor during his absence, requiring the troops to take the
oath of fealty to him and bidding them obey him in all he should
com mend. And they heard his words and promised obedience. Now
this Harun was a man of great prowess and a renowned warrior and
a doughty knight, and the Shaykh Abd al-Samad feigned to him that
the place they sought was distant but four months' journey along
the shore of the sea, with camping-places all the way, adjoining
one another, and grass and springs, adding, "Allah will assuredly
make the matter easy to us through thy blessing, O Lieutenant of
the Commander of the Faithful!" Quoth the Emir Musa, "Knowest
thou if any of the Kings have trodden this land before us?"; and
quoth the Shaykh, "Yes, it belonged aforetime to Darius the
Greek, King of Alexandria." But he said to Musa privily, "O Emir,
take with thee a thousand camels laden with victual and store of
gugglets."[FN#112] The Emir asked, "And what shall we do with
these?", and the Shaykh answered. "On our way is the desert of
Kayrwan or Cyrene, the which is a vast wold four days' journey
long, and lacketh water; nor therein doth sound of voice ever
sound nor is soul at any time to be seen. Moreover, there bloweth
the Simoon[FN#113] and other hot winds called Al-Juwayb, which
dry up the water-skins; but if the water be in gugglets, no harm
can come to it." "Right," said Musa and sending to Alexandria,
let bring thence great plenty of gugglets. Then he took with him
his Wazir and two thousand cavalry, clad in mail cap-a-pie and
set out, without other to guide them but Abd al-Samad who
forewent them, riding on his hackney. The party fared on
diligently, now passing through inhabited lands, then ruins and
anon traversing frightful words and thirsty wastes and then
mountains which spired high in air; nor did they leave journeying
a whole year's space till, one morning, when the day broke, after
they had travelled all night, behold, the Shaykh found himself in
a land he knew not and said, "There is no Majesty and there is no
Might save in Allah, the Glorious, the Great!" Quoth the Emir,
"What is to do, O Shaykh?"; and he answered, saying, "By the Lord
of the Ka'abah, we have wandered from our road!" "How cometh
that?" asked Musa, and Abd al-Samad replied, "The stars were
overclouded and I could not guide myself by them." "Where on
God's earth are we now?" asked the Emir, and the Shaykh answered,
"I know not; for I never set eyes on this land till this moment."
Said Musa, "Guide us back to the place where we went astray", but
the other, "I know it no more." Then Musa, "Let us push on; haply
Allah will guide us to it or direct us aright of His power." So
they fared on till the hour of noon-prayer, when they came to a
fair champaign, and wide and level and smooth as it were the sea
when calm, and presently there appeared to them, on the horizon
some great thing, high and black, in whose midst was as it were
smoke rising to the confines of the sky. They made for this, and
stayed not in their course till they drew near thereto, when, lo!
it was a high castle, firm of foundations and great and gruesome,
as it were a towering mountain, builded all of black stone, with
frowning crenelles and a door of gleaming China steel, that
dazzled the eyes and dazed the wits. Round about it were a
thousand steps and that which appeared afar off as it were smoke
was a central dome of lead an hundred cubits high. When the Emir
saw this, he marvelled thereat with exceeding marvel and how this
place was void of inhabitants; and the Shaykh, after he had
certified himself thereof, said, "There is no god but the God and
Mohammed is the Apostle of God!" Quoth Musa, "I hear thee praise
the Lord and hallow Him, and meseemeth thou rejoicest." "O Emir,"
answered Abd al-Samad, "Rejoice, for Allah (extolled and exalted
be He!) hath delivered us from the frightful words and thirsty
wastes." "How knowest thou that?" said Musa, and the other, "I
know it for that my father told me of my grandfather that he
said, 'We were once journeying in this land and, straying from
the road, we came to this palace and thence to the City of Brass;
between which and the place thou seekest is two full months'
travel; but thou must take to the sea-shore and leave it not, for
there be watering-places and wells and camping-grounds
established by King Zu al-Karnayn Iskandar who, when he went to
the conquest of Mauritania, found by the way thirsty deserts and
wastes and wilds and dug therein water-pits and built cisterns.'
" Quoth Musa, "Allah rejoice thee with good news!" and quoth the
Shaykh, "Come, let us go look upon yonder palace and its marvels,
for it is an admonition to whose will be admonished." So the Emir
went up to the palace, with the Shaykh and his officers, and
coming to the gate, found it open. Now this gate was builded with
lofty columns and porticoes whose walls and ceilings were inlaid
with gold and silver and precious stones; and there led up to it
flights of steps, among which were two wide stairs of coloured
marble, never was seen their like; and over the doorway was a
tablet whereon were graven letters of gold in the old ancient
Ionian character. "O Emir," asked the Shaykh, "Shall I read?";
and Musa answered, "Read and God bless thee!; for all that
betideth us in this journey dependeth upon thy blessing." So the
Shaykh, who was a very learned man and versed in all tongues and
characters, went up to the tablet and read whatso was thereon and
it was verse like this,

"The signs that here their mighty works portray * Warn us that
     all must tread the self-same way:
O thou who standest in this stead to hear * Tidings of folk,
     whose power hath passed for aye,
Enter this palace-gate and ask the news * Of greatness fallen
     into dust and clay:
Death has destroyed them and dispersed their might * And in the
     dust they lost their rich display;
As had they only set their burdens down * To rest awhile, and
     then had rode away."

When the Emir Musa heard these couplets, he wept till he lost his
senses and said, "There is no god but the God, the Living, the
Eternal, who ceaseth not!" Then he entered the palace and was
confounded at its beauty and the goodliness of its construction.
He diverted himself awhile by viewing the pictures and images
therein, till he came to another door, over which also were
written verses, and said to the Shaykh, "Come read me these!" So
he advanced and read as follows,

"Under these domes how many a company * Halted of old and fared
     with-outen stay:
See thou what might displays on other wights * Time with his
     shifts which could such lords waylay:
They shared together what they gathered * And left their joys and
     fared to Death-decay:
What joys they joyed! what food they ate! and now * In dust
     they're eaten, for the worm a prey."

At this the Emir Musa wept bitter tears; and the world waxed
yellow before his eyes and he said, "Verily, we were created for
a mighty matter!"[FN#114] Then they proceeded to explore the
palace and found it desert and void of living thing, its courts
desolate and dwelling places waste laid. In the midst stood a
lofty pavilion with a dome rising high in air, and about it were
four hundred tombs, builded of yellow marble. The Emir drew near
unto these and behold, amongst them was a great tomb, wide and
long; and at its head stood a tablet of white marble, whereon
were graven these couplets,

"How oft have I fought! and how many have slain! * How much have
     I witnessed of blessing and bane!
How much have I eaten! how much have I drunk! * How oft have I
     hearkened to singing-girl's strain!
How much have I bidden! how oft have forbid! * How many a castle
     and castellain
I have sieged and have searched, and the cloistered maids * In
     the depths of its walls for my captives were ta'en!
But of ignorance sinned I to win me the meeds * Which won proved
     naught and brought nothing of gain:
Then reckon thy reck'ning, O man, and be wise * Ere the goblet of
     death and of doom thou shalt drain;
For yet but a little the dust on thy head * They shall strew, and
     thy life shall go down to the dead."

The Emir and his companions wept; then, drawing near unto the
pavilion, they saw that it had eight doors of sandal-wood,
studded with nails of gold and stars of silver and inlaid with
all manner precious stones. On the first door were written these
verses,

"What I left, I left it not for nobility of soul, * But through
     sentence and decree that to every man are dight.
What while I lived happy, with a temper haught and high, * My
     hoarding-place defending like a lion in the fight,
I took no rest, and greed of gain forbad me give a grain * Of
     mustard seed to save from the fires of Hell my sprite,
Until stricken on a day, as with arrow, by decree * Of the Maker,
     the Fashioner, the Lord of Might and Right.
When my death was appointed, my life I could not keep * By the
     many of my stratagems, my cunning and my sleight:
My troops I had collected availed me not, and none * Of my
     friends and of my neighbours had power to mend my plight:
Through my life I was weaned in journeying to death * In stress
     or in solace, in joyance or despight:
So when money-bags are bloated, and dinar unto dinar * Thou
     addest, all may leave thee with fleeting of the night:
And the driver of a camel and the digger of a grave[FN#115] * Are
     what shine heirs shall bring ere the morning dawneth bright:
And on Judgment Day alone shalt thou stand before thy Lord, *
     Overladen with thy sins and thy crimes and shine affright:
Let the world not seduce thee with lurings, but behold * What
     measure to thy family and neighbours it hath doled."

When Musa heard these verses, he wept with such weeping that he
swooned away; then, coming to himself, he entered the pavilion
and saw therein a long tomb, awesome to look upon, whereon was a
tablet of China steel and Shaykh Abd al-Samad drew near it and
read this inscription: "In the name of Ever-lasting Allah, the
Never-beginning, the Never-ending; in the name of Allah who
begetteth not nor is He begot and unto whom the like is not; in
the name of Allah the Lord of Majesty and Might; in the name of
the Living One who to death is never dight!"--And Shahrazad
perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.

      When it was the Five Hundred and Sixty-ninth Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Shaykh Abd
al-Samad, having read the aforesaid, also found the following, "O
thou who comest to this place, take warning by that which thou
seest of the accidents of Time and the vicissitudes of Fortune
and be not deluded by the world and its pomps and vanities and
fallacies and falsehoods and vain allurements, for that it is
flattering, deceitful end treacherous, and the things thereof are
but a loan to us which it will borrow back from all borrowers. It
is like unto the dreams of the dreamer and the sleep-visions of
the sleeper or as the mirage of the desert, which the thirsty
take for water;[FN#116] and Satan maketh it fair for men even
unto death These are the ways of the world; wherefore put not
thou thy trust therein neither incline thereto, for it bewrayeth
him who leaneth upon it and who committeth himself thereunto in
his affairs. Fall not thou into its snares neither take hold upon
its skirts, but be warned by my example. I possessed four thou
sand bay horses and a haughty palace, and I had to wife a thou
sand daughters of kings, high-bosomed maids, as they were moons:
I was blessed with a thousand sons as they were fierce lions, and
I abode a thousand years, glad of heart and mind, and I amassed
treasures beyond the competence of all the Kings of the regions
of the earth, deeming that delight would still endure to me. But
there fell on me unawares the Destroyer of delights and the
Sunderer of societies, the Desolator of domiciles and the Spoiler
of inhabited spots, the Murtherer of great and small, babes and
children and mothers, he who hath no ruth on the poor for his
poverty, or feareth the King for all his bidding or forbidding.
Verily, we abode safe and secure in this palace, till there
descended upon us the judgment of the Lord of the Three Worlds,
Lord of the Heavens, and Lord of the Earths, the vengeance of the
Manifest Truth[FN#117] overtook us, when there died of us every
day two, till a great company of us had perished. When I saw that
destruction had entered our dwellings and had homed with us and
in the sea of deaths had drowned us, I summoned a writer and bade
him indite these verses and instances and admonitions, the which
I let grave, with rule and compass, on these doors and tablets
and tombs. Now I had an army of a thousand thousand bridles, men
of warrior mien with forearms strong and keen, armed with spears
and mail-coats sheen and swords that gleam; so I bade them don
their long-hanging hauberks and gird on their biting blades and
mount their high-mettled steeds and level their dreadful lances;
and whenas there fell on us the doom of the Lord of heaven and
earth, I said to them, 'Ho, all ye soldiers and troopers, can ye
avail to ward off that which is fallen on me from the Omnipotent
King?' But troopers and soldiers availed not unto this and said,
'How shall we battle with Him to whom no chamberlain barreth
access, the Lord of the door which hath no doorkeeper?' Then
quoth I to them, 'Bring me my treasures' Now I had in my
treasuries a thousand cisterns in each of which were a thousand
quintals[FN#118] of red gold and the like of white silver,
besides pearls and jewels of all kinds and other things of price,
beyond the attainment of the kings of the earth. So they did that
and when they had laid all the treasure in my presence, I said to
them, 'Can ye ransom me with all this treasure or buy me one day
of life therewith?' But they could not! So they resigned
themselves to fore-ordained Fate and fortune and I submitted to
the judgment of Allah, enduring patiently that which he decreed
unto me of affliction, till He took my soul and made me to dwell
in my grave. And if thou ask of my name, I am Kush, the son of
Shaddad son of Ad the Greater." And upon the tablets were
engraved these lines,

"An thou wouldst know my name, whose day is done * With shifts of
     time and chances 'neath the sun,
Know I am Shaddad's son, who ruled mankind * And o'er all earth
     upheld dominion!
All stubborn peoples abject were to me; * And Sham to Cairo and
     to Adnanwone;[FN#119]
I reigned in glory conquering many kings; * And peoples feared my
     mischief every one.
Yea, tribes and armies in my hand I saw; * The world all dreaded
     me, both friends and fone.
When I took horse, I viewed my numbered troops, * Bridles on
     neighing steeds a million.
And I had wealth that none could tell or count, * Against
     misfortune treasuring all I won;
Fain had I bought my life with all my wealth, * And for a
     moment's space my death to shun;
But God would naught save what His purpose willed; * So from my
     brethren cut I 'bode alone:
And Death, that sunders man, exchanged my lot * To pauper hut
     from grandeur's mansion
When found I all mine actions gone and past * Wherefor I'm
     pledged[FN#120] and by my sin undone.
Then fear, O man, who by a brink dost range, * The turns of
     Fortune and the chance of Change."

The Emir Musa was hurt to his heart and loathed his life for what
he saw of the slaughtering-places of the folk; and, as they went
about the highways and byeways of the palace, viewing its
sitting-chambers and pleasaunces, behold they came upon a table
of yellow onyx, upborne on four feet of juniper-wood,[FN#121] and
there-on these words graven, "At this table have eaten a thousand
kings blind of the right eye and a thousand blind of the left and
yet other thousand sound of both eyes, all of whom have departed
the world and have taken up their sojourn in the tombs and the
catacombs." All this the Emir wrote down and left the palace,
carrying off with him naught save the table aforesaid. Then he
fared on with his host three days' space, under the guidance of
the Shaykh Abd al-Samad, till they came to a high hill, whereon
stood a horseman of brass. In his hand he held a lance with a
broad head, in brightness like blinding leven, whereon was
graven, "O thou that comest unto me, if thou know not the way to
the City of Brass, rub the hand of this rider and he will turn
round and presently stop. Then take the direction whereto he
faceth and fare fearless, for it will bring thee, without
hardship, to the city aforesaid."--And Shahrazad perceived the
dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.

       When it was the Five Hundred and Seventieth Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when the
Emir Musa rubbed the horseman's hand he revolved like the
dazzling lightning, and stopped facing in a direction other than
that wherein they were journeying. So they took the road to which
he pointed (which was the right way) and, finding it a beaten
track, fared on through their days and nights till they had
covered a wide tract of country. Then they came upon a pillar of
black stone like a furnace chimney wherein was one sunken up to
his armpits. He had two great wings and four arms, two of them
like the arms of the sons of Adam and other two as they were
lion's paws, with claws of iron, and he was black and tall and
frightful of aspect, with hair like horses' tails and eyes like
blazing coals, slit upright in his face. Moreover, he had in the
middle of his forehead a third eye, as it were that of a lynx,
from which flew sparks of fire, and he cried out saying, "Glory
to my Lord, who hath adjudged unto me this grievous torment and
sore punishment until the Day of Doom!" When the folk saw him,
they lost their reason for affright and turned to flee; so the
Emir Musa asked the Shaykh Abd al-Samad, "What is this?"; and he
answered, "I know not." Whereupon quoth Musa, "Draw near and
question him of his condition; haply he will discover to thee his
case." "Allah assain thee, Emir! Indeed, I am afraid of him;"
replied the Shaykh; but the Emir rejoined, saying, "Fear not; he
is hindered from thee and from all others by that wherein he is."
So Abd al-Samad drew near to the pillar and said to him which was
therein, "O creature, what is thy name and what art thou and how
camest thou here in this fashion?" "I am an Ifrit of the Jinn,"
replied he, "by name Dahish, son of Al-A'amash,[FN#122] and am
confined here by the All-might, prisoned here by the Providence
and punished by the judgement of Allah, till it pleases Him, to
whom belong Might and Majesty, to release me." Then said Musa,
"Ask him why he is in durance of this column?" So the Shaykh
asked him of this, and the Ifrit replied, saying, "Verily my tale
is wondrous and my case marvellous, and it is this. One of the
sons of Iblis had an idol of red carnelian, whereof I was
guardian, and there served it a King of the Kings of the sea, a
Prince of puissant power and prow of prowess, over-ruling a
thousand thousand warriors of the Jann who smote with swords
before him and answered his summons in time of need. All these
were under my commandment and obeyed my behest, being each and
every rebels against Solomon, son of David, on whom be peace! And
I used to enter the belly of the idol and thence bid and forbid
them. Now this King's daughter loved the idol and was frequent in
prostration to it and assiduous in its service; and she was the
fairest woman of her day, accomplished in beauty and loveliness,
elegance and grace. She was described unto Solomon and he sent to
her father, saying, 'Give me thy daughter to wife and break shine
idol of carnelian and testify saying, There is no god but the God
and Solomon is the Prophet of Allah!' an thou do this, our due
shall be thy due and thy debt shall be our debt, but, if thou
refuse, make ready to answer the summons of the Lord and don thy
grave-gear, for I will come upon thee with an irresistible host,
which shall fill the waste places of earth and make thee as
yesterday that is passed away and hath no return for aye.' When
this message reached the King, he waxed insolent and rebellious,
pride-full and contumacious and he cried to his Wazirs, 'What say
ye of this? Know ye that Solomon son of David hath sent requiring
me to give him my daughter to wife, and break my idol of
carnelian and enter his faith!' And they replied, 'O mighty King,
how shall Solomon do thus with thee? Even could he come at thee
in the midst of this vast ocean, he could not prevail against
thee, for the Marids of the Jann will fight on thy side and thou
wilt ask succour of shine idol whom thou servest, and he will
help thee and give thee victory over him. So thou wouldst do well
to consult on this matter thy Lord,' (meaning the idol aforesaid)
'and hear what he saith. If he say, Fight him, fight him, and if
not, not.' So the King went in without stay or delay to his idol
and offered up sacrifices and slaughtered victims; after which he
fell down before him, prostrate and weeping, and repeated these
verses,

'O my Lord, well I weet thy puissant hand: * Sulayman would break
     thee and see thee bann'd.
O my Lord, to crave succour here I stand * Command and I bow to
     thy high command!'

Then I" (continued the Ifrit addressing the Shaykh and those
about him), "of my ignorance and want of wit and recklessness of
the commandment of Solomon and lack of knowledge anent his power,
entered the belly of the idol and made answer as follows.


'As for me, of him I feel naught affright, * For my lore and my
     wisdom are infinite:
If he wish for warfare I'll show him fight * And out of his body
     I'll tear his sprite!'

When the King heard my boastful reply, he hardened his heart and
resolved to wage war upon the Prophet and to offer him battle;
wherefore he beat the messenger with a grievous beating and
returned a foul answer to Solomon, threatening him and saying,
'Of a truth, thy soul hath suggested to thee a vain thing; dost
thou menace me with mendacious words? But gird thyself for
battle; for, an thou come not to me, I will assuredly come to
thee.' So the messenger returned to Solomon and told him all that
had passed and whatso had befallen him, which when the Prophet
heard, he raged like Doomsday and addressed himself to the fray
and levied armies of men and Jann and birds and reptiles. He
commanded his Wazir Al-Dimiryat, King of the Jann, to gather
together the Marids of the Jinn from all parts, and he collected
for him six hundred thousand thousand of devils.[FN#123]
Moreover, by his order, his Wazir Asaf bin Barkhiya levied him an
army of men, to the number of a thousand thousand or more. These
all he furnished with arms and armour and mounting, with his
host, upon his carpet, took flight through air, while the beasts
fared under him and the birds flew overhead, till he lighted down
on the island of the refractory King and encompassed it about,
filling earth with his hosts."--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn
of day and ceased saying her permitted say.

     When it was the Five Hundred and Seventy-first Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the Ifrit
continued, "So when Solomon the prophet (with whom be peace!)
lighted down with his host on the island he sent to our King,
saying, 'Behold, I am come: defend thy life against that which is
fallen upon thee, or else make thy submission to me and confess
my apostleship and give me thy daughter to lawful wife and break
thine idol and worship the one God, the alone Worshipful; and
testify, thou and shine, and say, 'There is no God but the God,
and Solomon is the Apostle of Allah![FN#124] This if thou do,
thou shalt have pardon and peace; but if not, it will avail thee
nothing to fortify thyself in this island, for Allah (extolled
and exalted be He!) hath bidden the wind obey me; so I will bid
it bear me to thee on my carpet and make thee a warning and an
example to deter others.' But the King made answer to his
messenger, saying, 'It may not on any wise be as he requireth of
me; so tell him I come forth to him,' With this reply the
messenger returned to Solomon, who thereupon gathered together
all the Jinn that were under his hand, to the number of a
thousand thousand, and added to them other than they of Marids
and Satans from the islands of the sea and the tops of the
mountains and, drawing them up on parade, opened his armouries
and distributed to them arms and armour. Then the Prophet drew
out his host in battle array, dividing the beasts into two
bodies, one on the right wing of the men and the other on the
left, and bidding them tear the enemies' horses in sunder.
Furthermore, he ordered the birds which were in the island to
hover over their heads and, whenas the assault should be made,
that they should swoop down and tear out the foe's eyes with
their beaks and buffet their faces with their wings; and they
answered, saying, 'We hear and we obey Allah and thee, O Prophet
of Allah!' Then Solomon seated himself on a throne of alabaster,
studded with precious stones and plated with red gold; and,
commanding the wind to bear him aloft, set his Wazir Asaf bin
Barkhiya[FN#125] and the kings of mankind on his right and his
Wazir Al-Dimiryat and the kings of the Jinn on his left, arraying
the beasts and vipers and serpents in the van. Thereupon they all
set on us together, and we gave them battle two days over a vast
plain; but, on the third day, disaster befel us, and the judgment
of Allah the Most High was executed upon us. Now the first to
charge upon them were I and my troops, and I said to my
companions, 'Abide in your places, whilst I sally forth to them
and provoke Al-Dimiryat to combat singular.' And behold, he came
forth to the duello as he were a vast mountain, with his fires
flaming and his smoke spireing, and shot at me a falling star of
fire; but I swerved from it and it missed me. Then I cast at him
in my turn, a flame of fire, and smote him; but his shaft[FN#126]
overcame my fire and he cried out at me so terrible a cry that
meseemed the skies were fallen flat upon me, and the mountains
trembled at his voice. Then he commanded his hosts to charge;
accordingly they rushed on us and we rushed on them, each crying
out upon other, and battle reared its crest rising in volumes and
smoke ascending in columns and hearts well nigh cleaving. The
birds and the flying Jinn fought in the air and the beasts and
men and the foot-faring Jann in the dust and I fought with Al-
Dimiryat, till I was aweary and he not less so. At last, I grew
weak and turned to flee from him, whereupon my companions and
tribesmen likewise took to flight and my hosts were put to the
rout, and Solomon cried out, saying, 'Take yonder furious tyrant,
the accursed, the infamous!' Then man fell upon man and Jinn upon
Jinn and the armies of the Prophet charged down upon us, with the
wild beasts and lions on their right hand and on their left,
rending our horses and tearing our men; whilst the birds hovered
over-head in air pecking out our eyes with their claws and beaks
and beating our faces with their wings, and the serpents struck
us with their fangs, till the most of our folk lay prone upon the
face of the earth, like the trunks of date-trees. Thus defeat
befel our King and we became a spoil unto Solomon. As to me, I
fled from before Al-Dimiryat, but he followed me three months'
journey, till I fell down for weariness and he overtook me, and
pouncing upon me, made me prisoner. Quoth I, 'By the virtue of
Him who hath exalted thee and abased me, spare me and bring me
into the presence of Solomon, on whom be peace!' So he carried me
before Solomon, who received me after the foulest fashion and
bade bring this pillar and hollow it out. Then he set me herein
and chained me and sealed me with his signet-ring, and Al-
Dimiryat bore me to this place wherein thou seest me. Moreover,
he charged a great angel to guard me, and this pillar is my
prison until Judgment-day." Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day
and ceased to say her permitted say. 

     When it was the Five Hundred and Seventy-second Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when the
Jinni who was prisoned in the pillar had told them his tale, from
first to last, the folk marvelled at his story and at the
frightfulness of his favour, and the Emir Musa said, "There is no
God but the God! Soothly was Solomon gifted with a mighty
dominion." Then said the Shaykh Abd al-Samad to the Jinni, "Ho
there! I would fain ask thee of a thing, whereof do thou inform
us." "Ask what thou wilt," answered the Ifrit Dahish and the
Shaykh said, "Are there hereabouts any of the Ifrits imprisoned
in bottles of brass from the time of Solomon (on whom be
peace!)?" "Yes," replied the Jinni; "there be such in the sea of
al-Karkar[FN#127] on the shores whereof dwell a people of the
lineage of Noah (on whom be peace!); for their country was not
reached by the Deluge and they are cut off there from the other
sons of Adam." Quoth Abd al-Samad, "And which is the way to the
City of Brass and the place wherein are the cucurbites of
Solomon, and what distance lieth between us and it?" Quoth the
Ifrit, "It is near at hand," and directed them in the way
thither. So they left him and fared forward till there appeared
to them afar off a great blackness and therein two fires facing
each other, and the Emir Musa asked the Shaykh, "What is yonder
vast blackness and its twin fires?"; and the guide answered,
"Rejoice O Emir, for this is the City of Brass, as it is
described in the Book of Hidden Treasures which I have by me. Its
walls are of black stone and it hath two towers of Andalusian
brass,[FN#128] which appear to the beholder in the distance as
they were twin fires, and hence is it named the City of Brass."
Then they fared on without ceasing till they drew near the city
and behold, it was as it were a piece of a mountain or a mass of
iron cast in a mould and impenetrable for the height of its walls
and bulwarks; while nothing could be more beautiful than its
buildings and its ordinance. So they dismounted down and sought
for an entrance, but saw none neither found any trace of opening
in the walls, albeit there were five-and-twenty portals to the
city, but none of them was visible from without. Then quoth the
Emir, "O Shaykh, I see to this city no sign of any gate;" and
quoth he, "O Emir, thus is it described in my Book of Hidden
Treasures; it hath five-and-twenty portals; but none thereof may
be opened save from within the city." Asked Musa, " And how shall
we do to enter the city and view its wonders?" and Talib son of
Sahl, his Wazir, answered, "Allah assain the Emir! let us rest
here two or three days and, God willing, we will make shift to
come within the walls." Then said Musa to one of his men, "Mount
thy camel and ride round about the city, so haply thou may light
upon a gate or a place somewhat lower than this fronting us, or
Inshallah! a breach whereby we can enter." Accordingly he mounted
his beast, taking water and victuals with him, and rode round the
city two days and two nights, without drawing rein to rest, but
found the wall thereof as it were one block, without breach or
way of ingress; and on the third day, he came again in sight of
his companions, dazed and amazed at what he had seen of the
extent and loftiness of the place, and said, "O Emir, the easiest
place of access is this where you have alighted." Then Musa took
Talib and Abd al-Samad and ascended the highest hill which
overlooked the city. When they reached the top, they beheld
beneath them a city, never saw eyes a greater or a goodlier, with
dwelling-places and mansions of towering height, and palaces and
pavilions and domes gleaming gloriously bright and sconces and
bulwarks of strength infinite; and its streams were a-flowing and
flowers a-blowing and fruits a glowing. It was a city with gates
impregnable; but void and still, without a voice or a cheering
inhabitant. The owl hooted in its quarters; the bird skimmed
circling over its squares and the raven croaked in its great
thoroughfares weeping and bewailing the dwellers who erst made it
their dwelling.[FN#129] The Emir stood awhile, marvelling and
sorrowing for the desolation of the city and saying, Glory to Him
whom nor ages nor changes nor times can blight, Him who created
all things of His Might!" Presently, he chanced to look aside and
caught sight of seven tablets of white marble afar off. So he
drew near them and finding inscriptions graven thereon, called
the Shaykh and bade him read these. Accordingly he came forward
and, examining the inscriptions, found that they contained matter
of admonition and warning and instances and restraint to those of
understanding. On the first tablet was inscribed, in the ancient
Greek character: "O son of Adam, how heedless art thou of that
which is before thee! Verily, thy years and months and days have
diverted thee therefrom. Knowest thou not that the cup of death
is filled for thy bane which in a little while to the dregs thou
shalt drain? Look to thy doom ere thou enter thy tomb. Where be
the Kings who held dominion over the lands and abased Allah's
servants and built these palaces and had armies under their
commands? By Allah, the Destroyer of delights and the Severer of
societies and the Devastator of dwelling-places came down upon
them and transported them from the spaciousness of their palaces
to the staitness of their burial-places." And at the foot of the
tablet were written the following verses,

"Where are the Kings earth-peopling, where are they? * The built
     and peopled left they e'er and aye!
They're tombed yet pledged to actions past away * And after death
     upon them came decay.
Where are their troops? They failed to ward and guard! * Where
     are the wealth and hoards in treasuries lay?
Th' Empyrean's Lord surprised them with one word, * Nor wealth
     nor refuge could their doom delay!"

When the Emir heard this, he cried out and the tears ran down his
cheeks and he exclaimed, "By Allah, from the world abstaining is
the wisest course and the sole assaining!" And he called for pen-
case and paper and wrote down what was graven on the first
tablet. Then he drew near the second tablet and found these words
graven thereon, "O son of Adam, what hath seduced thee from the
service of the Ancient of Days and made thee forget that one day
thou must defray the debt of death? Wottest thou not that it is a
transient dwelling wherein for none there is abiding; and yet
thou taketh thought unto the world and cleaves" fast thereto?
Where be the kings who Irak peopled and the four quarters of the
globe possessed? Where be they who abode in Ispahan and the land
of Khorasan? The voice of the Summoner of Death summoned them and
they answered him, and the Herald of Destruction hailed them and
they replied, Here are we! Verily, that which they builded and
fortified profited them naught; neither did what they had
gathered and provided avail for their defence." And at the foot
of the tablet were graven the following verses,

Where be the men who built and fortified * High places never man
     their like espied?
In fear of Fate they levied troops and hosts, * Availing naught
     when came the time and tide,
Where be the Kisras homed in strongest walls? * As though they
     ne'er had been from home they tried!"

The Emir Musa wept and exclaimed, "By Allah, we are indeed
created for a grave matter!" Then he copied the inscription and
passed on to the third tablet,--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn
of day and ceased saying her permitted say.

     When it was the Five Hundred and Seventy-third Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the Emir
Musa passed on to the third tablet, whereon was written, "O son
of Adam, the things of this world thou lovest and prizest and the
hest of thy Lord thou spurnest and despisest. All the days of thy
life pass by and thou art content thus to aby. Make ready thy
viaticum against the day appointed for thee to see and prepare to
answer the Lord of every creature that be!" And at the foot were
written these verses,

"Where is the wight who peopled in the past * Hind land and Sind;
     and there the tyrant played?
Who Zanj[FN#130] and Habash bound beneath his yoke, * And Nubia
     curbed and low its puissance laid.
Look not for news of what is in his grave. * Ah, he is far who
     can thy vision aid!
The stroke of death fell on him sharp and sure; * Nor saved him
     palace, nor the lands he swayed."

At this Musa wept with sore weeping and, going on to the fourth
tablet, he read inscribed thereon, "O son of Adam, how long shall
thy Lord bear with thee and thou every day sunken in the sea of
thy folly? Hath it then been stablished unto thee that some day
thou shalt not die? O son of Adam, let not the deceits of thy
days and nights and times and hours delude thee with their
delights; but remember that death lieth ready for thee ambushing,
fain on thy shoulders to spring, nor doth a day pass but he
morneth with thee in the morning and nighteth with thee by night.
Beware, then, of his onslaught and make provision there-against.
As was with me, so it is with thee; thou wastest thy whole life
and squanderest the joys in which thy days are rife. Hearken,
therefore, to my words and put thy trust in the Lord of Lords;
for in the world there is no stability; it is but as a spider's
web to thee." And at the foot of the tablet were written these
couplets,

"Where is the man who did those labours ply * And based and built
     and reared these walls on high?
Where be the castles' lords? Who therein dwelt * Fared forth and
     left them in decay to lie.
All are entombed, in pledge against the day * When every sin
     shall show to every eye.
None but the Lord Most High endurance hath, * Whose Might and
     Majesty shall never die."

When the Emir read this, he swooned away and presently coming to
himself marvelled exceedingly and wrote it down. Then he drew
near the fifth tablet and behold, thereon was graven, "O son of
Adam, what is it that distracteth thee from obedience of thy
Creator and the Author of thy being, Him who reared thee whenas
thou west a little one, and fed thee whenas thou west full-grown?
Thou art ungrateful for His bounty, albeit He watcheth over thee
with His favours, letting down the curtain of His protection over
thee. Needs must there be for thee an hour bitterer than aloes
and hotter than live coals. Provide thee, therefore, against it;
for who shall sweeten its gall or quench its fires? Bethink thee
who forewent thee of peoples and heroes and take warning by them,
ere thou perish." And at the foot of the tablet were graven these
couplets, 

"Where be the Earth-kings who from where they 'bode, * Sped and
     to grave yards with their hoardings yode:
Erst on their mounting-days there hadst beheld * Hosts that
     concealed the ground whereon they rode:
How many a king they humbled in their day! * How many a host they
     led and laid on load!
But from th' Empyrean's Lord in haste there came * One word, and
     joy waxed grief ere morning glowed."

The Emir marvelled at this and wrote it down; after which he
passed on to the sixth tablet and behold, was inscribed thereon,
"O son of Adam, think not that safety will endure for ever and
aye, seeing that death is sealed to thy head alway. Where be thy
fathers, where be thy brethren, where thy friends and dear ones?
They have all gone to the dust of the tombs and presented
themselves before the Glorious, the Forgiving, as if they had
never eaten nor drunken, and they are a pledge for that which
they have earned. So look to thyself, ere thy tomb come upon
thee." And at the foot of the tablet were these couplets,

"Where be the Kings who ruled the Franks of old? * Where be the
     King who peopled Tingis-wold[FN#131]?
Their works are written in a book which He, * The One, th' All-
    father shall as witness hold."

At this the Emir Musa marvelled and wrote it down, saying, "There
is no god but the God! Indeed, how goodly were these folk!" Then
he went up to the seventh tablet and behold, thereon was written,
"Glory to Him who fore-ordaineth death to all He createth, the
Living One, who dieth not! O son of Adam, let not thy days and
their delights delude thee, neither shine hours and the delices
of their time, and know that death to thee cometh and upon thy
shoulder sitteth. Beware, then, of his assault and make ready for
his onslaught. As it was with me, so it is with thee; thou
wastest the sweet of thy life and the joyance of shine hours.
Give ear, then, to my rede and put thy trust in the Lord of Lords
and know that in the world is no stability, but it is as it were
a spider's web to thee and all that is therein shall die and
cease to be. Where is he who laid the foundation of Amid[FN#132]
and builded it and builded Farikin[FN#133] and exalted it? Where
be the peoples of the strong places? Whenas them they had
inhabited, after their might into the tombs they descended. They
have been carried off by death and we shall in like manner be
afflicted by doom. None abideth save Allah the Most High, for He
is Allah the Forgiving One." The Emir Musa wept and copied all
this, and indeed the world was belittled in his eyes. Then he
descended the hill and rejoined his host, with whom he passed the
rest of tile day, casting about for a means of access to the
city. And he said to his Wazir Talib bin Sahl and to the chief
officers about him, "How shall we contrive to enter this city and
view its marvels?: haply we shall find therein wherewithal to win
the favour of the Commander of the Faithful." "Allah prolong the
Emir's fortune!" replied Talib, "let us make a ladder and mount
the wall therewith, so peradventure we may come at the gate from
within." Quoth the Emir, "This is what occurred to my thought
also, and admirable is the advice!" Then he called for carpenters
and blacksmiths and bade them fashion wood and build a ladder
plated and banded with iron. So they made a strong ladder and
many men wrought at it a whole month. Then all the company laid
hold of it and set it up against the wall, and it reached the top
as truly as if it had been built for it before that time. The
Emir marvelled and said, "The blessing of Allah be upon you. It
seems as though ye had taken the measure of the mure, so
excellent is your work." Then said he to his men, "Which of you
will mount the ladder and walk along the wall and cast about for
a way of descending into the city, so to see how the case stands
and let us know how we may open the gate?" Whereupon quoth one of
them, "I will go up, O Emir, and descend and open to you"; and
Musa answered, saying, "Go and the blessing of Allah go with
thee!" So the man mounted the ladder; but, when he came to the
top of the wall, he stood up and gazed fixedly down into the
city, then clapped his hands and crying out, at the top of his
voice, "By Allah, thou art fair!" cast himself down into the
place, and Musa cried, "By Allah, he is a dead man!" But another
came up to him and said, "O Emir, this was a madman and doubtless
his madness got the better of him and destroyed him. I will go up
and open the gate to you, if it be the will of Allah the Most
High." "Go up," replied Musa, "and Allah be with thee! But beware
lest thou lose thy head, even as did thy comrade." Then the man
mounted the ladder, but no sooner had he reached the top of the
wall than he laughed aloud, saying, "Well done! well done!"; and
clapping palms cast himself down into the city and died
forthright. When the Emir saw this, he said, "An such be the
action of a reasonable man, what is that of the madman? If all
our men do on this wise, we shall have none left and shall fail
of our errand and that of the Commander of the Faithful. Get ye
ready for the march: verily we have no concern with this city."
But a third one of the company said, "Haply another may be
steadier than they." So a third mounted the wall and a fourth and
a fifth and all cried out and cast themselves down, even as did
the first, nor did they leave to do thus, till a dozen had
perished in like fashion. Then the Shaykh Abd al-Samad came
forward and heartened himself and said, "This affair is reserved
to none other than myself; for the experienced is not like the
inexperienced." Quoth the Emir, "Indeed thou shalt not do that
nor will I have thee go up: an thou perish, we shall all be cut
off to the last man since thou art our guide." But he answered,
saying, "Peradventure, that which we seek may be accomplished at
my hands, by the grace of God Most High!" So the folk all agreed
to let him mount the ladder, and he arose and heartening himself,
said, "In the name of Allah, the Compassionating, the
Compassionate!" and mounted the ladder, calling on the name of
the Lord and reciting the Verses of Safety.[FN#134] When he
reached the top of the wall, he clapped his hands and gazed
fixedly down into the city; whereupon the folk below cried out to
him with one accord, saying "O Shaykh Abd al-Samad, for the
Lord's sake, cast not thyself down!"; and they added, "Verily we
are Allah's and unto Him we are returning! If the Shaykh fall, we
are dead men one and all." Then he laughed beyond all measure and
sat a long hour, reciting the names of Allah Almighty and
repeating the Verses of Safety; then he rose arid cried out at
the top of his voice, saying, O Emir, have no fear; no hurt shall
betide you, for Allah (to whom belong Might and Majesty!) hath
averted from me the wiles and malice of Satan, by the blessing of
the words, 'In the name of Allah the Compassionating the
Compassionate!'" Asked Musa, "What didst thou see, O Shaykh?";
and Abd al-Samad answered, "I saw ten maidens, as they were
Houris of Heaven calling to me with their hands"--And Shahrazad
perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.

     When it was the Five Hundred and Seventy-fourth Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the Shaykh
Abd al-Samad answered, "I saw ten maidens like Houris of
Heaven,[FN#135] and they calling and signing,[FN#136] 'Come
hither to us'; and meseemed there was below me a lake of water.
So I thought to throw myself down, when behold, I espied my
twelve companions lying dead; so I restrained myself and recited
somewhat of Allah's Book, whereupon He dispelled from me the
damsels' witchlike wiles and malicious guiles and they
disappeared. And doubtless this was an enchantment devised by the
people of the city, to repel any who should seek to gaze upon or
to enter the place. And it hath succeeded in slaying our
companions." Then he walked on along the wall, till he came to
the two towers of brass aforesaid and saw therein two gates of
gold, without pad locks or visible means of opening. Hereat he
paused as long as Allah pleased[FN#137] and gazed about him
awhile, till he espied in the middle of one of the gates, a
horseman of brass with hand outstretched as if pointing, and in
his palm was somewhat written. So he went up to it and read these
words, "O thou who comest to this place, an thou wouldst enter
turn the pin in my navel twelve times and the gate will open."
Accordingly, he examined the horseman and finding in his navel a
pin of gold, firm-set and fast fixed, he turned it twelve times,
whereupon the horseman revolved like the blinding lightning and
the gate swung open with a noise like thunder. He entered and
found himself in a long passage,[FN#138] which brought him down
some steps into a guard-room furnished with goodly wooden
benches, whereon sat men dead, over whose heads hung fine shields
and keen blades and bent bows and shafts ready notched. Thence,
he came to the main gate of the city; and, finding it secured
with iron bars and curiously wrought locks and bolts and chains
and other fastenings of wood and metal, said to himself, "Belike
the keys are with yonder dead folk." So he turned back to the
guard-room and seeing amongst the dead an old man seated upon a
high wooden bench, who seemed the chiefest of them, said in his
mind, "Who knows but they are with this Shaykh? Doubtless he was
the warder of the city and these others were under his hand." So
he went up to him and lifting his gown, behold, the keys were
hanging to his girdle; whereat he joyed with exceeding joy and
was like to fly for gladness. Then he took them and going up to
the portal, undid the padlocks and drew back the bolts and bars,
whereupon the great leaves flew open with a crash like the
pealing thunder by reason of its greatness and terribleness. At
this he cried out saying, "Allaho Akbar--God is most great!" And
the folk without answered him with the same words, rejoicing and
thanking him for his deed. The Emir Musa also was delighted at
the Shaykh's safety and the opening of the city-gate, and the
troops all pressed forward to enter; but Musa cried out to them,
saying, "O folk, if we all go in at once we shall not be safe
from some ill-chance which may betide us. Let half enter and
other half tarry without." So he pushed forwards with half his
men, bearing their weapons of war, and finding their comrades
lying dead, they buried them; and they saw the doorkeepers and
eunuchs and chamberlains and officers reclining on couches of
silk and all were corpses. Then they fared on till they came to
the chief market-place, full of lofty buildings whereof none
overpassed the others, and found all its shops open, with the
scales hung out and the brazen vessels ordered and the
caravanserais full of all manner goods; and they beheld the
merchants sitting on the shop-boards dead, with shrivelled skin
and rotted bones, a warning to those who can take warning; and
here they saw four separate markets all replete with wealth. Then
they left the great bazar and went on till they came to the silk
market, where they found silks and brocades, orfrayed with red
gold and diapered with white silver upon all manner of colours,
and the owners lying dead upon mats of scented goats' leather,
and looking as if they would speak; after which they traversed
the market-street of pearls and rubies and other jewels and came
to that of the schroffs and money-changers, whom they saw sitting
dead upon carpets of raw silk and dyed stuffs in shops full of
gold and silver. Thence they passed to the perfumers' bazar where
they found the shops filled with drugs of all kinds and bladders
of musk and ambergris and Nadd-scent and camphor and other
perfumes, in vessels of ivory and ebony and Khalanj-wood and
Andalusian copper, the which is equal in value to gold; and
various kinds of rattan and Indian cane; but the shopkeepers all
lay dead nor was there with them aught of food. And hard by this
drug-market they came upon a palace, imposingly edified and
magnificently decorated; so they entered and found therein
banners displayed and drawn sword blades and strung bows and
bucklers hanging by chains of gold and silver and helmets gilded
with red gold. In the vestibules stood benches of ivory, plated
with glittering gold and covered with silken stuffs, whereon lay
men, whose skin had dried up on their bones; the fool had deemed
them sleeping; but, for lack of food, they had perished and
tasted the cup of death. Now when the Emir Musa saw this, he
stood still, glorifying Allah the Most High and hallowing Him and
contemplating the beauty of the palace and the massiveness of its
masonry and fair perfection of its ordinance, for it was builded
after the goodliest and stablest fashion and the most part of its
adornment was of green[FN#139] lapis-lazuli, and on the inner
door, which stood open, were written in characters of gold and
ultramarine, these couplets,

"Consider thou, O man, what these places to thee showed * And be
     upon thy guard ere thou travel the same road:
And prepare thee good provision some day may serve thy turn * For
     each dweller in the house needs must yede wi' those who yode
Consider how this people their palaces adorned * And in dust have
     been pledged for the seed of acts they sowed
They built but their building availed them not, and hoards * Nor
     saved their lives nor day of Destiny forslowed:
How often did they hope for what things were undecreed. * And
     passed unto their tombs before Hope the bounty showed
And from high and awful state all a sudden they were sent * To
     the straitness of the grave and oh! base is their abode:
Then came to them a Crier after burial and cried, * What booted
     thrones or crowns or the gold to you bestowed:
Where now are gone the faces hid by curtain and by veil, * Whose
     charms were told in proverbs, those beauties a-la-mode?
The tombs aloud reply to the questioners and cry, * 'Death's
     canker and decay those rosy cheeks corrode'
Long time they ate and drank, but their joyaunce had a term, *
     And the eater eke was eaten, and was eaten by the worm."

When the Emir read this, he wept, till he was like to swoon away-
-And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her
permitted say.

     When it was the Five Hundred ante Seventy-fifth Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the Emir
wept till he was like to swoon away, and bade write down the
verses, after which he passed on into the inner palace and came
to a vast hall, at each of whose four corners stood a pavilion
lofty and spacious, washed with gold and silver and painted in
various colours. In the heart of the hall was a great jetting-
fountain of alabaster, surmounted by a canopy of brocade, and in
each pavilion was a sitting-place and each place had its richly-
wrought fountain and tank paved with marble and streams flowing
in channels along the floor and meeting in a great and grand
cistern of many-coloured marbles. Quoth the Emir to the Shaykh
Abd al-Samad, "Come let us visit yonder pavilion!" So they
entered the first and found it full of gold and silver and pearls
and jacinths and other precious stones and metals, besides chests
filled with brocades, red and yellow and white. Then they
repaired to the second pavilion, and, opening a closet there,
found it full of arms and armour, such as gilded helmets and
Davidean[FN#140] hauberks and Hindi swords and Arabian spears and
Chorasmian[FN#141] maces and other gear of fight and fray. Thence
they passed to the third pavilion, wherein they saw closets
padlocked and covered with curtains wrought with all manner of
embroidery. They opened one of these and found it full of weapons
curiously adorned with open work and with gold and silver
damascene and jewels. Then they entered the fourth pavilion, and
opening one of the closets there, beheld in it great store of
eating and drinking vessels of gold and silver, with platters of
crystal and goblets set with fine pearls and cups of carnelian
and so forth. So they all fell to taking that which suited their
tastes and each of the soldiers carried off what he could. When
they left the pavilions, they saw in the midst of the palace a
door of teak-wood marquetried with ivory and ebony and plated
with glittering gold, over which hung a silken curtain purfled
with all manner of embroideries; and on this door were locks of
white silver, that opened by artifice without a key. The Shaykh
Abd al-Samad went valiantly up thereto and by the aid of his
knowledge and skill opened the locks, whereupon the door admitted
them into a corridor paved with marble and hung with veil-
like[FN#142] tapestries embroidered with figures of all manner
beasts and birds, whose bodies were of red gold and white silver
and their eyes of pearls and rubies, amazing all who looked upon
them. Passing onwards they came to a saloon builded all of
polished marble, inlaid with jewels, which seemed to the beholder
as though the floor were flowing water[FN#143] and whoso walked
thereon slipped. The Emir bade the Shaykh strew somewhat upon it,
that they might walk over it; which being done, they made shift
to fare forwards till they came to a great domed pavilion of
stone, gilded with red gold and crowned with a cupola of
alabaster, about which were set lattice-windows carved and
jewelled with rods of emerald,[FN#144] beyond the competence of
any King. Under this dome was a canopy of brocede, reposing upon
pillars of red gold and wrought with figures of birds whose feet
were of smaragd, and beneath each bird was a network of fresh-
hued pearls. The canopy was spread above a jetting fountain of
ivory and carnelian, plated with glittering gold and thereby
stood a couch set with pearls and rubies and other jewels and
beside the couch a pillar of gold. On the capital of the column
stood a bird fashioned of red rubies and holding in his bill a
pearl which shone like a star; and on the couch lay a damsel, as
she were the lucident sun, eyes never saw a fairer. She wore a
tight-fitting body-robe of fine pearls, with a crown of red gold
on her head, filleted with gems, and on her forehead were two
great jewels, whose light was as the light of the sun. On her
breast she wore a jewelled amulet, filled with musk and ambergris
and worth the empire of the Caesars; and around her neck hung a
collar of rubies and great pearls, hollowed and filled with
odoriferous musk And it seemed as if she gazed on them to the
right and to the left.--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day
and ceased to say her permitted say.

     When it was the Five Hundred and Seventy-sixth Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the damsel
seemed to be gazing at the folk to the right and to the left. The
Emir Musa marvelled at her exceeding beauty and was confounded at
the blackness of her hair and the redness of her cheeks, which
made the beholder deem her alive and not dead, and said to her,
"Peace be with thee, O damsel!" But Talib ibn Sahl said to him,
"Allah preserve thee, O Emir, verily this damsel is dead and
there is no life in her; so how shall she return thy salam?"
adding, ' Indeed, she is but a corpse embalmed with exceeding
art; her eyes were taken out after her death and quicksilver set
under them, after which they were restored to their sockets.
Wherefore they glisten and when the air moveth the lashes, she
seemeth to wink and it appeareth to the beholder as though she
looked at him, for all she is dead." At this the Emir marvelled
beyond measure and said, "Glory be to God who subjugateth His
creatures to the dominion of Death!" Now the couch on which the
damsel lay, had steps, and thereon stood two statues of
Andalusian copper representing slaves, one white and the other
black. The first held a mace of steel[FN#145] and the second a
sword of watered steel which dazzled the eye; and between them,
on one of the steps of the couch, lay a golden tablet, whereon
were written, in characters of white silver, the following words:
"In the name of God, the Compassionating, the Compassionate!
Praise be to Allah, the Creator of mankind; and He is the Lord of
Lords, the Causer of Causes! In the name of Allah, the Never
beginning, the Everlasting, the Ordainer of Fate and Fortune! O
son of Adam! what hath befooled thee in this long esperance? What
hath unminded thee of the Death-day's mischance? Knowest thou not
that Death calleth for thee and hasteneth to seize upon the soul
of thee? Be ready, therefore, for the way and provide thee for
thy departure from the world; for, assuredly, thou shalt leave it
without delay. Where is Adam, first of humanity? Where is Noah
with his progeny? Where be the Kings of Hind and Irak-plain and
they who over earth's widest regions reign? Where do the
Amalekites abide and the giants and tyrants of olden tide?
Indeed, the dwelling-places are void of them and they have
departed from kindred and home. Where be the Kings of Arab and
Ajam? They are dead, all of them, and gone and are become rotten
bones. Where be the lords so high in stead? They are all done
dead. Where are Kora and Haman? Where is Shaddad son of Ad? Where
be Canaan and Zu'l-Autad,[FN#146] Lord of the Stakes? By Allah,
the Reaper of lives hath reaped them and made void the lands of
them. Did they provide them against the Day of Resurrection or
make ready to answer the Lord of men? O thou, if thou know me
not, I will acquaint thee with my name: I am Tadmurah,[FN#147]
daughter of the Kings of the Amalekites, of those who held
dominion over the lands in equity and brought low the necks of
humanity. I possessed that which never King possessed and was
righteous in my rule and did justice among my lieges; yea, I gave
gifts and largesse and freed bondsmen and bondswomen. Thus lived
I many years in all ease and delight of life, till Death knocked
at my door and to me and to my folk befel calamities galore; and
it was on this wise. There betided us seven successive years of
drought, wherein no drop of rain fell on us from the skies and no
green thing sprouted for us on the face of earth.[FN#148] So we
ate what was with us of victual, then we fell upon the cattle and
devoured them, until nothing was left. Thereupon I let bring my
treasures and meted them with measures and sent out trusty men to
buy food. They circuited all the lands in quest thereof and left
no city unsought, but found it not to be bought and returned to
us with the treasure after a long absence; and gave us to know
that they could not succeed in bartering fine pearls for poor
wheat, bushel for bushel, weight for weight. So, when we
despaired of succour, we displayed all our riches and things of
price and, shutting the gates of the city and its strong places,
resigned ourselves to the deme of our Lord and committed our case
to our King. Then we all died,[FN#149] as thou seest us, and left
what we had builded and all we had hoarded. This, then, is our
story, and after the substance naught abideth but the trace."
Then they looked at the foot of the tablet and read these
couplets,

"O child of Adam, let not hope make mock and flyte at thee, *
     Prom all thy hands have treasured, removed thou shalt be;
I see thou covetest the world and fleeting worldly charms, * And
     races past and gone have done the same as thou I see.
Lawful and lawless wealth they got; but all their hoarded store,
     * Their term accomplished, naught delayed of Destiny's
     decree.
Armies they led and puissant men and gained them gold galore; *
     Then left their wealth and palaces by Pate compelled to
     flee,
To straitness of the grave-yard and humble bed of dust * Whence,
     pledged for every word and deed, they never more win free:
As a company of travellers had unloaded in the night * At house
     that lacketh food nor is o'erfain of company:
Whose owner saith, 'O folk, there be no lodging here for you;' *
     So packed they who had erst unpacked and fared hurriedly:
Misliking much the march, nor the journey nor the halt * Had
     aught of pleasant chances or had aught of goodly greet
Then prepare thou good provision for to-morrow's journey stored,
     * Naught but righteous honest life shall avail thee with the
     Lord!"

And the Emir Musa wept as he read, "By Allah, the fear of the
Lord is the best of all property, the pillar of certainty and the
sole sure stay. Verily, Death is the truth manifest and the sure
behest, and therein, O thou, is the goal and return place
evident. Take warning, therefore, by those who to the dust did
wend and hastened on the way of the predestined end. Seest thou
not that hoary hairs summon thee to the tomb and that the
whiteness of thy locks maketh moan of thy doom? Wherefore be thou
on the wake ready for thy departure and shine account to make. O
son of Adam, what hath hardened thy heart in mode abhorred? What
hath seduced thee from the service of thy Lord? Where be the
peoples of old time? They are a warning to whoso will be warned!
Where be the Kings of al-Sin and the lords of majestic mien?
Where is Shaddad bin Ad and whatso he built and he stablished?
Where is Nimrod who revolted against Allah and defied Him? Where
is Pharaoh who rebelled against God and denied Him? Death
followed hard upon the trail of them all, and laid them low
sparing neither great nor small, male nor female; and the Reaper
of Mankind cut them off, yea, by Him who maketh night to return
upon day! Know, O thou who comest to this place, that she whom
thou seest here was not deluded by the world and its frail
delights, for it is faithless, perfidious, a house of ruin, vain
and treacherous; and salutary to the creature is the remembrance
of his sins; wherefore she feared her Lord and made fair her
dealings and provided herself with provaunt against the appointed
marching day. Whoso cometh to our city and Allah vouchsafeth him
competence to enter it, let him take of the treasure all he can,
but touch not aught that is on my body, for it is the covering of
my shame[FN#150] and the outfit for the last journey; wherefore
let him fear Allah and despoil naught thereof; else will he
destroy his own self. This have I set forth to him for a warning
from me and a solemn trust to be; wherewith, peace be with ye and
I pray Allah to keep you from sickness and calamity." And
Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her
permitted say.

    When it was the Five Hundred and Seventy-seventh Night,

She said, it hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when the
Emir Musa read this, he wept with exceeding weeping till he
swooned away and presently coming to himself, wrote down all he
had seen and was admonished by all he had witnessed. Then he said
to his men, "Fetch the camels and load them with these treasures
and vases and jewels." "O Emir," asked Talib, "shall we leave our
damsel with what is upon her, things which have no equal and
whose like is not to be found and more perfect than aught else
thou takest; nor couldst thou find a goodlier offering
wherewithal to propitiate the favour of the Commander of the
Faithful?" But Musa answered, "O man, heardest thou not what the
Lady saith on this tablet? More by token that she giveth it in
trust to us who are no traitors." "And shall we," rejoined the
Wazir Talib, "because of these words, leave all these riches and
jewels, seeing that she is dead? What should she do with these
that are the adornments of the world and the ornament of the
worldling, seeing that one garment of cotton would suffice for
her covering? We have more right to them than she." So saying he
mounted the steps of the couch between the pillars, but when he
came within reach of the two slaves, lo! the mace-bearer smote
him on the back and the other struck him with the sword he held
in his hand and lopped off his head, and he dropped down dead.
Quoth the Emir, "Allah have no mercy on thy resting-place! Indeed
there was enough in these treasures, and greed of gain assuredly
degradeth a man." Then he bade admit the troops; so they entered
and loaded the camels with those treasures and precious ores;
after which they went forth and the Emir commanded them to shut
the gate as before. They fared on along the sea-shore a whole
month, till they came in sight of a high mountain overlooking the
sea and full of caves, wherein dwelt a tribe of blacks, clad in
hides, with burnooses also of hide and speaking an unknown
tongue. When they saw the troops they were startled like shying
steeds and fled into the caverns, whilst their women and children
stood at the cave doors, looking on the strangers. "O Shaykh Abd
al-Samad," asked the Emir, "what are these folk?" and he
answered, "They are those whom we seek for the Commander of the
Faithful." So they dismounted and setting down their loads,
pitched their tents; whereupon, almost before they had done, down
came the King of the blacks from the mountain and drew near the
camp. Now he understood the Arabic tongue; so, when he came to
the Emir he saluted him with the salam and Musa returned his
greeting and entreated him with honour. Then quoth he to the
Emir, "Are ye men or Jinn?" "Well, we are men," quoth Musa; "but
doubtless ye are Jinn, to judge by your dwelling apart in this
mountain which is cut off from mankind, and by your inordinate
bulk." "Nay," rejoined the black; "we also are children of Adam,
of the lineage of Ham, son of Noah (with whom be peace!), and
this sea is known as Al-Karkar." Asked Musa, "O King, what is
your religion and what worship ye?"; and he answered, saying, "We
worship the God of the heavens and our religion is that of
Mohammed, whom Allah bless and preserve!" "And how came ye by the
knowledge of this," questioned the Emir, "seeing that no prophet
was inspired to visit this country?" "Know, Emir," replied the
King, "that there appeared to us whilere from out the sea a man,
from whom issued a light that illumined the horizons and he cried
out, in a voice which was heard of men far and near, saying, 'O
children of Ham, reverence to Him who seeth and is not seen and
say ye, 'There is no god but the God, and Mohammed is the
messenger of God!' And he added, 'I am Abu al-Abbas al-Khizr.'
Before this we were wont to worship one another, but he summoned
us to the service of the Lord of all creatures; and he taught us
to repeat these words, 'There is no god save the God alone, who
hath for partner none, and His is the kingdom and His is the
praise. He giveth life and death and He over all things is
Almighty.' Nor do we draw near unto Allah (be He exalted and
extolled!) except with these words, for we know none other; but
every eve before Friday[FN#151] we see a light upon the face of
earth and we hear a voice saying, 'Holy and glorious, Lord of the
Angels and the Spirit! What He willeth is, and what He willeth
not, is not. Every boon is of His grace and there is neither
Majesty nor is there Might save in Allah, the Glorious, the
Great!' But ye," quoth the King, "who and what are ye and what
bringeth you to this land?" Quoth Musa, "We are officers of the
Sovereign of Al-Islam, the Commander of the Faithful, Abd al-
Malik bin Marwan, who hath heard tell of the lord Solomon, son of
David (on whom be peace!) and of that which the Most High
bestowed upon him of supreme dominion; how he held sway over Jinn
and beast and bird and was wont when he was wroth with one of the
Marids, to shut him in a cucurbite of brass and, stopping its
mouth on him with lead, whereon he impressed his seal ring, to
cast him into the sea of Al-Karkar. Now we have heard tell that
this sea is nigh your land; so the Commander of the Faithful hath
sent us hither, to bring him some of these cucurbites, that he
may look thereon and solace himself with their sight. Such, then,
is our case and what we seek of thee, O King, and we desire that
thou further us in the accomplishment of our errand commanded by
the Commander of the Faithful." "With love and gladness," replied
the black King, and carrying them to the guest house, entreated
them with the utmost honour and furnished them with all they
needed, feeding them upon fish. They abode thus three days, when
he bade his divers fetch from out the sea some of the vessels of
Solomon. So they dived and brought up twelve cucurbites, whereat
the Emir and the Shaykh and all the company rejoiced in the
accomplishment of the Caliph's need. Then Musa gave the King of
the blacks many and great gifts; and he, in turn, made him a
present Of the wonders of the deep, being fishes in human
form,[FN#152] saying "Your entertainment these three days hath
been of the meat of these fish." Quoth the Emir, "Needs must we
carry some of these to the Caliph, for the sight of them will
please him more than the cucurbites of Solomon." Then they took
leave of the black King and, setting out on their homeward
journey, travelled till they came to Damascus, where Musa went in
to the Commander of the Faithful and told him all that he had
sighted and heard of verses and legends and instances, together
with the manner of the death of Talib bin Sahl; and the Caliph
said, "Would I had been with you, that I might have seen what you
saw!" Then he took the brazen vessels and opened them, cucurbite
after cucurbite, whereupon the devils came forth of them, saying,
"We repent, O Prophet of Allah! Never again will we return to the
like of this thing; no never!" And the Caliph marvelled at this.
As for the daughters of the deep presented to them by the black
King, they made them cisterns of planks, full of water, and laid
them therein; but they died of the great heat. Then the Caliph
sent for the spoils of the Brazen City and divided them among the
Faithful,--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to
say her permitted say,

     When it was the Five Hundred and Seventy-eighth Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the Caliph
marvelled much at the cucurbites and their contents; then he sent
for the spoils and divided them among the Faithful, saying,
"Never gave Allah unto any the like of that which he bestowed
upon Solomon David-son!" Thereupon the Emir Musa sought leave of
him to appoint his son Governor of the Province in his stead,
that he might be take himself to the Holy City of Jerusalem,
there to worship Allah. So the Commander of the Faithful invested
his son Harun with the government and Musa repaired to the
Glorious and Holy City, where he died. This, then, is all that
hath come down to us of the story of the City of Brass, and God
is All-knowing! Now (continued Shahrazad) I have another tale to
tell anent the



           CRAFT AND MALICE OF WOMEN,[FN#153] OR THE
          TALE OF THE KING, HIS SON, HIS CONCUBINE AND
                       THE SEVEN WAZIRS.



There was, in days of yore and in ages and times long gone
before, a puissant King among the Kings of China, the crown of
crowned heads, who ruled over many men of war and vassals with
wisdom and justice, might and majesty; equitable to his Ryots,
liberal to his lieges and dearly beloved by the hearts of his
subjects. He was wealthy as he was powerful, but he had grown old
without being blessed with a son, and this caused him sore
affliction. He could only brood over the cutting off of his seed
and the oblivion that would bury his name and the passing of his
realm into the stranger's hands. So he secluded himself in his
palace, never going in and out or rising and taking rest till the
lieges lost all tidings of him and were sore perplexed and began
to talk about their King. Some said, "He's dead"; others said,
"No, he's not"; but all resolved to find a ruler who could reign
over them and carry out the customs of government. At last,
utterly despairing of male issue, he sought the intercession of
the Prophet (whom Allah bless and keep!) with the Most High and
implored Him, by the glory of His Prophets and Saints and Martyrs
and others of the Faithful who were acceptable to Heaven that he
would grant him a son, to be the coolth of his eyes and heir to
the kingdom after him. Then he rose forthright and, withdrawing
to his sitting-saloon, sent for his wife who was the daughter of
his uncle. Now this Queen was of surpassing beauty and
loveliness, the fairest of all his wives and the dearest to him
as she was the nearest: and to boot a woman of excellent wit and
passing judgement. She found the King dejected and sorrowful,
tearful-eyed and heavy-hearted; so she kissed ground between his
hands and said, "O King, may my life ransom thy life! may Time
never prove thy foe, nor the shifts of Fortune prevail over thee;
may Allah grant thee every joy and ward off from thee all annoy!
How is it I see thee brooding over thy case and tormented by the
displeasures of memory?" He replied, "Thou wottest well that I am
a man now shotten in years, who hath never been blessed with a
son, a sight to cool his eyes; so I know that my kingdom shall
pass away to the stranger in blood and my name and memory will be
blotted out amongst men. 'Tis this causeth me to grieve with
excessive grief." "Allah do away with thy sorrows," quoth she:
"long ere this day a thought struck me; and yearning for issue
arose in my heart even as in thine. One night I dreamed a dream
and a voice said to me, 'The King thy husband pineth for progeny:
if a daughter be vouchsafed to him, she will be the ruin of his
realm; if a son, the youth will undergo much trouble and annoy
but he will pass through it without loss of life. Such a son can
be conceived by thee and thee only and the time of thy conception
is when the moon conjoineth with Gemini!' I woke from my dream,
but after what I heard that voice declare I refrained from
breeding and would not consent to bear children." "There is no
help for it but that I have a son, Inshallah, --God willing!"
cried the King. Thereupon she soothed and consoled him till he
forgot his sorrows and went forth amongst the lieges and sat, as
of wont, upon his throne of estate. All rejoiced to see him once
more and especially the Lords of his realm. Now when the
conjunction of the moon and Gemini took place, the King knew his
wife carnally and, by order of Allah Almighty she became
pregnant. Presently she anounced the glad tidings to her husband
and led her usual life until her nine months of pregnancy were
completed and she bare a male child whose face was as the rondure
of the moon on its fourteenth night. The lieges of the realm
congratulated one another thereanent and the King commanded an
assembly of his Olema and philosophers, astrologers and
horoscopists, whom he thus addressed, "I desire you to forecast
the fortune of my son and to determine his ascendant[FN#154] and
whatever is shown by his nativity." They replied "'Tis well, in
Allah's name, let us do so!" and cast his nativity with all
diligence. After ascertaining his ascendant, they pronounced
judgement in these words, "We see his lot favourable and his life
viable and durable; save that a danger awaiteth his youth." The
father was sorely concerned at this saying, when they added "But,
O King, he shall escape from it nor shall aught of injury accrue
to him!" Hereupon the King cast aside all cark and care and robed
the wizards and dismissed them with splendid honoraria; and he
resigned himself to the will of Heaven and acknowledged that the
decrees of destiny may not be countervailed. He committed his boy
to wet nurses and dry nurses, handmaids and eunuchs, leaving him
to grow and fill out in the Harim till he reached the age of
seven. Then he addressed letters to his Viceroys and Governors in
every clime and by their means gathered together Olema and
philosophers and doctors of law and religion, from all countries,
to a number of three hundred and three score. He held an especial
assembly for them and, when all were in presence, he bade them
draw near him and be at their ease while he sent for the
food-trays and all ate their sufficiency. And when the banquet
ended and the wizards had taken seats in their several degrees,
the King asked them, "Wot ye wherefore I have gathered ye
together?"; whereto all answered, "We wot not, O King!" He
continued, "It is my wish that you select from amongst you fifty
men, and from these fifty ten, and from these ten one, that he
may teach my son omnem rem scibilem; for whenas I see the youth
perfect in all science, I will share my dignity with the Prince
and make him partner with me in my possessions." "Know, O King,"
they replied, "that among us none is more learned or more
excellent than Al-Sindibad,[FN#155] hight the Sage, who woneth in
thy capital under thy protection. If such be thy design, summon
him and bid him do thy will." The King acted upon their advice
and the Sage, standing in the presence, expressed his loyal
sentiments with his salutation, whereupon his Sovereign bade him
draw nigh and thus raised his rank, saying, "I would have thee to
know, O Sage, that I summoned this assembly of the learned and
bade them choose me out a man to teach my son all knowledge; when
they selected thee without dissenting thought or voice. If, then,
thou feel capable of what they claimed for thee, come thou to the
task and understand that a man's son and heir is the very fruit
of his vitals and core of his heart and liver. My desire of thee
is thine instruction of him; and to happy issue Allah guideth!"
The King then sent for his son and committed him to Al-Sindibad
conditioning the Sage to finish his education in three years. He
did accordingly but, at the end of that time, the young Prince
had learned nothing, his mind being wholly occupied with play and
disport; and when summoned and examined by his sire, behold, his
knowledge was as nil. Thereupon the King turned his attention to
the learned once more and bade them elect a tutor for his youth;
so they asked, "And what hath his governor, Al-Sindibad, been
doing?" and when the King answered, "He hath taught my son
naught;" the Olema and philosophers and high officers summoned
the instructor and said to him, "O Sage, what prevented thee from
teaching the King's son during this length of days?" "O wise
men," he replied, "the Prince's mind is wholly occupied with
disport and play; yet, an the King will make with me three
conditions and keep to them, I will teach him in seven months
what he would not learn (nor indeed could any other lesson him)
within seven years." "I hearken to thee," quoth the King, "and I
submit myself to thy conditions;" and quoth Al-Sindibad, "Hear
from me, Sire, and bear in mind these three sayings, whereof the
first is, 'Do not to others what thou wouldest not they do unto
thee';[FN#156] and second, 'Do naught hastily without consulting
the experienced'; and thirdly, 'Where thou hast power show
pity.'[FN#157] In teaching this lad I require no more of thee but
to accept these three dictes and adhere thereto." Cried the King,
"Bear ye witness against me, O all ye here assembled, that I
stand firm by these conditions!"; and caused a proces verbal to
be drawn up with his personal security and the testimony of his
courtiers. Thereupon the Sage, taking the Prince's hand, led him
to his place, and the King sent them all requisites of provaunt
and kitchen-batteries, carpets and other furniture. Moreover the
tutor bade build a house whose walls he lined with the whitest
stucco painted over with ceruse,[FN#158] and, lastly, he
delineated thereon all the objects concerning which he proposed
to lecture his pupil. When the place was duly furnished, he took
the lad's hand and installed him in the apartment which was amply
furnished with belly-timber; and, after stablishing him therein,
went forth and fastened the door with seven padlocks. Nor did he
visit the Prince save every third day when he lessoned him on the
knowledge to be extracted from the wall-pictures and renewed his
provision of meat and drink, after which he left him again to
solitude. So whenever the youth was straitened in breast by the
tedium and ennui of loneliness, he applied himself diligently to
his object-lessons and mastered all the deductions therefrom. His
governor seeing this turned his mind into other channel and
taught him the inner meanings of the external objects; and in a
little time the pupil mastered every requisite. Then the Sage
took him from the house and taught him cavalarice and Jerid play
and archery. When the pupil had thoroughly mastered these arts,
the tutor sent to the King informing him that the Prince was
perfect and complete in all things required to figure favourably
amongst his peers. Hereat the King rejoiced; and, summoning his
Wazirs and Lords of estate to be present at the examination,
commanded the Sage to send his son into the presence. Thereupon
Al-Sindibad consulted his pupil's horoscope and found it barred
by an inauspicious conjunction which would last seven days; so,
in sore affright for the youth's life, he said, "Look into thy
nativity-scheme." The Prince did so and, recognising the portent,
feared for himself and presently asked the Sage, saying, "What
dost thou bid me do?" "I bid thee," he answered, "remain silent
and speak not a word during this se'nnight; even though thy sire
slay thee with scourging. An thou pass safely through this
period, thou shalt win to high rank and succeed to thy sire's
reign; but an things go otherwise then the behest is with Allah
from the beginning to the end thereof." Quoth the pupil, "Thou
art in fault, O preceptor, and thou hast shown undue haste in
sending that message to the King before looking into my
horoscope. Hadst thou delayed till the week had passed all had
been well." Quoth the tutor, "O my son, what was to be was; and
the sole defaulter therein was my delight in thy scholarship. But
now be firm in thy resolve; rely upon Allah Almighty and
determine not to utter a single word." Thereupon the Prince fared
for the presence and was met by the Wazirs who led him to his
father. The King accosted him and addressed him but he answered
not; and sought speech of him but he spake not. Whereupon the
courtiers were astounded and the monarch, sore concerned for his
son, summoned Al-Sindibad. But the tutor so hid himself that none
could hit upon his trace nor gain tidings of him; and folk said,
"He was ashamed to appear before the King's majesty and the
courtiers." Under these conditions the Sovereign heard some of
those present saying, "Send the lad to the Serraglio where he
will talk with the women and soon set aside this bashfulness;"
and, approving their counsel, gave orders accordingly. So the
Prince was led into the palace, which was compassed about by a
running stream whose banks were planted with all manner of
fruit-trees and sweet-smelling flowers. Moreover, in this palace
were forty chambers and in every chamber ten slave-girls, each
skilled in some instrument of music, so that whenever one of them
played, the palace danced to her melodious strains. Here the
Prince passed one night; but, on the following morning, the
King's favourite concubine happened to cast eyes upon his beauty
and loveliness, his symmetrical stature, his brilliancy and his
perfect grace, and love gat hold of her heart and she was
ravished with his charms.[FN#159] So she went up to him and threw
herself upon him, but he made her no response; whereupon, being
dazed by his beauty, she cried out to him and required him of
himself and importuned him; then she again threw herself upon him
and clasped him to her bosom kissing him and saying, "O King's
son, grant me thy favours and I will set thee in thy father's
stead; I will give him to drink of poison, so he may die and thou
shalt enjoy his realm and wealth." When the Prince heard these
words, he was sore enraged against her and said to her by signs,
"O accursed one, so it please Almighty Allah, I will assuredly
requite thee this thy deed, whenas I can speak; for I will go
forth to my father and will tell him, and he shall kill thee." So
signing, he arose in rage, and went out from her chamber; whereat
she feared for herself. Thereupon she buffeted her face and rent
her raiment and tare her hair and bared her head, then went in to
the King and cast herself at his feet, weeping and wailing. When
he saw her in this plight, he was sore concerned and asked her,
"What aileth thee, O damsel? How is it with thy lord, my son? Is
he not well?"; and she answered, "O King, this thy son, whom thy
courtiers avouch to be dumb, required me of myself and I repelled
him, whereupon he did with me as thou seest and would have slain
me; so I fled from him, nor will I ever return to him, nor to the
palace again, no, never again!" When the King heard this, he was
wroth with exceeding wrath and, calling his seven Wazirs, bade
them put the Prince to death. However, they said one to other,
"If we do the King's commandment, he will surely repent of having
ordered his son's death, for he is passing dear to him and this
child came not to him save after despair; and he will round upon
us and blame us, saying, 'Why did ye not contrive to dissuade me
from slaying him?'" So they took counsel together, to turn him
from his purpose, and the chief Wazir said, "I will warrant you
from the King's mischief this day." Then he went in to the
presence and prostrating himself craved leave to speak. The King
gave him permission, and he said, "O King, though thou hadst a
thousand sons, yet were it no light matter to thee to put one of
them to death, on the report of a woman, be she true or be she
false; and belike this is a lie and a trick of her against thy
son; for indeed, O King, I have heard tell great plenty of
stories of the malice, the craft and perfidy of women." Quoth the
King, "Tell me somewhat of that which hath come to thy knowledge
thereof." And the Wazir answered, saying, 'Yes, there hath
reached me, O King, a tale entituled




The King and his Wazir's Wife.[FN#160]



There was once a King of the Kings, a potent man and a proud, who
was devoted to the love of women and one day being in the privacy
of his palace, he espied a beautiful woman on the terraceroof of
her house and could not contain himself from falling consumedly
in love with her.[FN#161] He asked his folk to whom the house and
the damsel belonged and they said, "This is the dwelling of the
Wazir such an one and she is his wife." So he called the Minister
in question and despatched him on an errand to a distant part of
the kingdom, where he was to collect information and to return;
but, as soon as he obeyed and was gone, the King contrived by a
trick to gain access to his house and his spouse. When the
Wazir's wife saw him, she knew him and springing up, kissed his
hands and feet and welcomed him. Then she stood afar off, busying
herself in his service, and said to him, "O our lord, what is the
cause of thy gracious coming? Such an honour is not for the like
of me." Quoth he, "The cause of it is that love of thee and
desire thee-wards have moved me to this. Whereupon she kissed
ground before him a second time and said, "By Allah, O our lord,
indeed I am not worthy to be the handmaid of one of the King's
servants; whence then have I the great good fortune to be in such
high honour and favour with thee?" Then the King put out his hand
to her intending to enjoy her person, when she said, "This thing
shall not escape us; but take patience, O my King, and abide with
thy handmaid all this day, that she may make ready for thee
somewhat to eat and drink." So the King sat down on his
Minister's couch and she went in haste and brought him a book
wherein he might read, whilst she made ready the food. He took
the book and, beginning to read, found therein moral instances
and exhortations, such as restrained him from adultery and broke
his courage to commit sin and crime. After awhile, she returned
and set before him some ninety dishes of different kinds of
colours, and he ate a mouthful of each and found that, while the
number was many, the taste of them was one. At this, he marvelled
with exceeding marvel and said to her, "O damsel, I see these
meats to be manifold and various, but the taste of them is simple
and the same." "Allah prosper the King!" replied she, "this is a
parable I have set for thee, that thou mayst be admonished
thereby." He asked, "And what is its meaning?"; and she answered,
"Allah amend the case of our lord the King!; in thy palace are
ninety concubines of various colours, but their taste is
one."[FN#162] When the King heard this, he was ashamed and rising
hastily, went out, without offering her any affront and returned
to his palace; but, in his haste and confusion, he forgot his
signet-ring and left it under the cushion where he had been
sitting and albeit he remembered it he was ashamed to send for
it. Now hardly had he reached home when the Wazir returned and,
presenting himself before the King, kissed the ground and made
his report to him of the state of the province in question. Then
he repaired to his own house and sat down on his couch and
chancing to put his hand under the cushion, behold, he found the
King's seal-ring. So he knew it and taking the matter to heart,
held aloof in great grief from his wife for a whole year, not
going in unto her nor even speaking to her, whilst she knew not
the reason of his anger. --And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of
day and ceased saying her permitted say.

     When it was the Five Hundred and Seventy-ninth Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the Wazir
held aloof from his wife, whilst she knew not the cause of his
wrath. At last, being weary of the longsome neglect, she sent for
her sire and told him the case; whereupon quoth he, "I will
complain of him to the King, at some time when he is in the
presence." So, one day, he went in to the King and, finding the
Wazir and the Kazi of the army before him,[FN#163] complained
thus saying, "Almighty Allah amend the King's case! I had a fair
flower-garden, which I planted with mine own hand and thereon
spent my substance till it bare fruit; and its fruitage was ripe
for plucking, when I gave it to this thy Wazir, who ate of it
what seemed good to him, then deserted it and watered it not, so
that its bloom wilted and withered and its sheen departed and its
state changed." Then said the Wazir, "O my King, this man saith
sooth. I did indeed care for and guard the garden and kept it in
good condition and ate thereof, till one day I went thither and I
saw the trail of the lion there, wherefore I feared for my life
and withdrew from the garden." The King understood him that the
trail of the lion meant his own seal-ring, which he had forgotten
in the woman's house; so he said, "Return, O Wazir, to thy
flower-garden and fear nothing, for the lion came not near it. It
hath reached me that he went thither; but, by the honour of my
fathers and forefathers, he offered it no hurt." "Hearkening and
obedience," answered the Minister and, returning home sent for
his wife and made his peace with her and thenceforth put faith in
her chastity. "This I tell thee, O King (continued the Wazir),
for no other purpose save to let thee know how great is their
craft and how precipitancy bequeatheth repentance.[FN#164] And I
have also heard the following



Story of the Confectioner, his Wife, and the Parrot.



Once upon a time there dwelt in Egypt a confectioner who had a
wife famed for beauty and loveliness; and a parrot which, as
occasion required, did the office of watchman and guard, bell and
spy, and flapped her wings did she but hear a fly buzzing about
the sugar. This parrot caused abundant trouble to the wife,
always telling her husband what took place in his absence. Now
one evening, before going out to visit certain friends, the
confectioner gave the bird strict injunctions to watch all night
and bade his wife make all fast, as he should not return until
morning. Hardly had he left the door than the woman went for her
old lover, who returned with her and they passed the night
together in mirth and merriment, while the parrot observed all.
Betimes in the morning the lover fared forth and the husband,
returning, was informed by the parrot of what had taken place;
whereupon he hastened to his wife's room and beat her with a
painful beating. She thought in herself, "Who could have informed
against me?" and she asked a woman that was in her confidence
whether it was she. The woman protested by the worlds visible and
invisible that she had not betrayed her mistress; but informed
her that on the morning of his return home, the husband had stood
some time before the cage listening to the parrot's talk. When
the wife heard this, she resolved to contrive the destruction of
the bird. Some days after, the husband was again invited to the
house of a friend where he was to pass the night; and, before
departing, he enjoined the parrot with the same injunctions as
before; wherefore his heart was free from care, for he had his
spy at home. The wife and her confidante then planned how they
might destroy the credit of the parrot with the master. For this
purpose they resolved to counterfeit a storm; and this they did
by placing over the parrot's head a hand-mill (which the lover
worked by pouring water upon a piece of hide), by waving a fan
and by suddenly uncovering a candle hid under a dish. Thus did
they raise such a tempest of rain and lightning, that the parrot
was drenched and half-drowned in a deluge. Now rolled the
thunder, then flashed the lightning; that from the noise of the
hand-mill, this from the reflection of the candle; when thought
the parrot to herself, "In very sooth the flood hath come on,
such an one as belike Noah himself never witnessed." So saying
she buried her head under her wing, a prey to terror. The
husband, on his return, hastened to the parrot to ask what had
happened during his absence; and the bird answered that she found
it impossible to describe the deluge and tempest of the last
night; and that years would be required to explain the uproar of
the hurricane and storm. When the shopkeeper heard the parrot
talk of last night's deluge, he said: "Surely O bird, thou art
gone clean daft! Where was there, even in a dream, rain or
lightning last night? Thou hast utterly ruined my house and
ancient family. My wife is the most virtuous woman of the age and
all thine accusations of her are lies." So in his wrath he dashed
the cage upon the ground, tore off the parrot's head, and threw
it from the window. Presently his friend, coming to call upon
him, saw the parrot in this condition with head torn off, and
without wings or plumage. Being informed of the circumstances he
suspected some trick on the part of the woman, and said to the
husband, "When your wife leaves home to go to the Hammam-bath,
compel her confidante to disclose the secret." So as soon as his
wife went out, the husband entered his Harim and insisted on the
woman telling him the truth. She recounted the whole story and
the husband now bitterly repented having killed the parrot, of
whose innocence he had proof. "This I tell thee, O King
(continued the Wazir), that thou mayst know how great are the
craft and malice of women and that to act in haste leadeth to
repent at leisure." So the King turned from slaying his son: but,
next day, the favourite came in to him and, kissing the ground
before him, said, "O King, why dost thou delay to do me justice?
Indeed, the Kings have heard that thou commandest a thing and thy
Wazir countermandeth it. Now the obedience of Kings is in the
fulfilment of their commandments, and every one knows thy justice
and equity: so do thou justice for me on the Prince. I also have
heard tell a tale concerning




The Fuller and his Son.



There was once a man which was a fuller, and he used every day to
go forth to the Tigris-bank a-cleaning clothes; and his son was
wont to go with him that he might swim whilst his father was
fulling, nor was he forbidden from this. One day, as the boy was
swimming,[FN#165] he was taken with cramp in the forearms and
sank, whereupon the fuller plunged into the water and caught hold
of him; but the boy clung about him and pulled him down and so
father and son were both drowned. "Thus it is with thee, O King.
Except thou prevent thy son and do me justice on him, I fear lest
both of you sink together, thou and he."--And Shahrazad perceived
the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.

       When it Was the Five Hundred and Eightieth Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when the
favourite had told her tale of the Fuller and his son, she ended
with, "I fear lest both of you sink together, thou and he.
Moreover," continued she, "for an instance of the malice of men,
I have heard tell a tale concerning




The Rake's Trick against the Chaste Wife.



A certain man loved a beautiful and lovely woman, a model of
charms and grace, married to a man whom she loved and who loved
her. Moreover, she was virtuous and chaste, like unto me, and her
rake of a lover found no way to her; so when his patience was at
an end, he devised a device to win his will. Now the husband had
a young man, whom he had brought up in his house and who was in
high trust with him as his steward. So the rake addressed himself
to the youth and ceased not insinuating himself into his favour
by presents and fair words and deeds, till he became more
obedient to him than the hand to the mouth and did whatever he
ordered him. One day, he said to him, "Harkye, such an one; wilt
thou not bring me into the family dwelling-place some time when
the lady is gone out?" "Yes," answered the young steward so, when
his master was at the shop and his mistress gone forth to the
Hammam, he took his friend by the hand and, bringing him into the
house, showed him the sitting-rooms and all that was therein. Now
the lover was determined to play a trick upon the woman; so he
took the white of an egg which he had brought with him in a
vessel, and spilt it on the merchant's bedding, unseen by the
young man; after which he returned thanks and leaving the house
went his way. In an hour or so the merchant came home; and, going
to the bed to rest himself, found thereon something wet. So he
took it up in his hand and looked at it and deemed it man's seed;
whereat he stared at the young man with eyes of wrath, and asked
him, "Where is thy mistress?"; and he answered, "She is gone
forth to the Hammam and will return forthright after she has made
her ablutions."[FN#166] When the man heard this, his suspicion
concerning the semen was confirmed; and he waxed furious and
said, "Go at once and bring her back." The steward accordingly
fetched her and when she came before her husband, the jealous man
sprang upon her and beat her a grievous beating; then, binding
her arms behind her, offered to cut her throat with a knife; but
she cried out to the neighbours, who came to her, and she said to
them, "This my man hath beaten me unjustly and without cause and
is minded to kill me, though I know not what is mine offence." So
they rose up and asked him, "Why hast thou dealt thus by her?"
And he answered, "She is divorced." Quoth they, "Thou hast no
right to maltreat her; either divorce her or use her kindly, for
we know her prudence and purity and chastity. Indeed, she hath
been our neighbour this long time and we wot no evil of her."
Quoth he, "When I came home, I found on my bed seed like human
sperm, and I know not the meaning of this." Upon this a little
boy, one of those present, came forward and said, "Show it to me,
nuncle mine!" When he saw it, he smelt it and, calling for fire
and a frying-pan, he took the white of egg and cooked it so that
it became solid. Then he ate of it and made the husband and the
others taste if it, and they were certified that it was white of
egg. So the husband was convinced that he had sinned against his
wife's innocence, she being clear of all offence, and the
neighbours made peace between them after the divorce, and he
prayed her pardon and presented her with an hundred gold pieces.
And so the wicked lover's cunning trick came to naught. "And
know, O King, that this is an instance of the malice of men and
their perfidy." When the King heard this, he bade his son be
slain; but on the next day the second Wazir came forward for
intercession and kissed ground in prostration. Whereupon the King
said, "Raise thy head: prostration must be made to Allah
only."[FN#167] So the Minister rose from before him and said, "O
King, hasten not to slay thy son, for he was not granted to his
mother by the Almighty but after despair, nor didst thou expect
such good luck; and we hope that he will live to become a guerdon
to thy reign and a guardian of thy good. Wherefore, have
patience, O King; belike he will offer a fit excuse; and, if thou
make haste to slay him, thou wilt surely repent, even as the
merchant-wight repented." Asked the King, "And how was it with
the merchant, O Wazir?"; and the Wazir answered, "O King, I have
heard a tale of



The Miser and the Loaves of Bread.



There was once a merchant, who was a niggard and miserly in his
eating and drinking. One day, he went on a journey to a certain
town and as he walked in the market-streets, behold, he met an
old trot with two scones of bread which looked sound and fair, He
asked her, "Are these for sale?"; and she answered, "Yes!" So he
beat her down and bought them at the lowest price and took them
home to his lodging, where he ate them that day. When morning
morrowed, he returned to the same place and, finding the old
woman there with other two scones, bought these also; and thus he
ceased not during twenty-five days' space when the old wife
disappeared. He made enquiry for her, but could hear no tidings
of her, till, one day as he was walking about the high streets,
he chanced upon her: so he accosted her and, after the usual
salutation and with much praise and politeness, asked why she had
disappeared from the market and ceased to supply the two cakes of
bread? Hearing this, at first she evaded giving him a reply; but
he conjured her to tell him her case; so she said, "Hear my
excuse, O my lord, which is that I was attending upon a man who
had a corroding ulcer on his spine, and his doctor bade us knead
flour with butter into a plaster and lay it on the place of pain,
where it abode all night. In the morning, I used to take that
flour and turn it into dough and make it into two scones, which I
cooked and sold to thee or to another; but presently the man died
and I was cut off from making cakes."[FN#168] When the merchant
heard this, he repented whenas repentance availed him naught,
saying, "Verily, we are Allah's and verily unto Him we are
returning! There is no Majesty and there is no Might save in Him,
the Glorious, the Great!" --And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of
day and ceased saying her permitted say.

      When it was the Five Hundred and Eighty-first Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when the
old trot told the merchant the provenance of the scones, he
cried, "There is no Majesty and there is no Might save in Allah,
the Glorious, the Great!" And he repeated the saying of the Most
High, "Whatever evil falleth to thee it is from thyself;"[FN#169]
and vomited till he fell sick and repented whenas repentance
availed him naught. "Moreover, O King" (continued the second
Wazir), "I have heard tell, of the malice of women, a tale of



The Lady and her Two Lovers.



Once upon a time there was a man, who was sword-bearer to one of
the Kings, and he loved a damsel of the common sort. One day, he
sent his page to her with a message, as of wont between them, and
the lad sat down with her and toyed with her. She inclined to him
and pressed him to her breast and groped him and kissed him
whereupon he sought carnal connection of her and she consented;
but, as the two were thus, lo! the youth's master knocked at the
door. So she pushed the page through a trapdoor into an
underground chamber there and opened the door to his lord, who
entered hending sword in hand and sat down upon her bed. Then she
came up to him and sported and toyed with him, kissing him and
pressing him to her bosom, and he took her and lay with her.
Presently, her husband knocked at the door and the gallant asked
her, "Who is that?"; whereto she answered, "My husband." Quoth
he, "How shall I do?" Quoth she, "Draw thy sword and stand in the
vestibule and abuse me and revile me; and when my husband comes
in to thee, do thou go forth and wend thy ways." He did as she
bade him; and, when the husband entered, he saw the King's
sword-bearer standing with naked brand in hand, abusing and
threatening his wife; but, when the lover saw him, he was ashamed
and sheathing his scymitar, went forth the house. Said the man to
his wife, "What means this?"; and she replied, "O man, how
blessed is the hour of thy coming! Thou hast saved a True
Believer from slaughter, and it happed after this fashion. I was
on the house-terrace, spinning,[FN#170] when behold, there came
up to me a youth, distracted and panting for fear of death,
fleeing from yonder man, who followed upon him as hard as he
could with his drawn sword. The young man fell down before me,
and kissed my hands and feet, saying, "O Protector, of thy mercy,
save me from him who would slay me wrongously!" So I hid him in
that underground chamber of ours and presently in came yonder man
to me, naked brand in hand, demanding the youth. But I denied him
to him, whereupon he fell to abusing and threatening me as thou
sawest. And praised be Allah who sent thee to me, for I was
distraught and had none to deliver me!" "Well hast thou done, O
woman!" answered the husband. "Thy reward is with Allah the
Almighty, and may He abundantly requite thy good deed!" Then he
went to the trap door and called to the page, saying, "Come forth
and fear not; no harm shall befal thee." So he came out,
trembling for fear, and the husband said, "Be of good cheer: none
shall I hurt thee;" condoling with him on what had befallen him;
whilst the page called down blessings on his head. Then they both
went forth, nor was that Cornuto nor was the page aware of that
which the woman had contrived. "This, then, O King," said the
Wazir, "is one of the tricks of women; so beware lest thou rely
upon their I words." The King was persuaded and turned from
putting his son to death; but, on the third day, the favourite
came in to him I and, kissing the ground before him, cried, "O
King, do me justice on thy son and be not turned from thy purpose
by thy Ministers' prate, for there is no good in wicked Wazirs,
and be not as the King of Baghdad, who relied on the word of a
certain wicked counsellor of his." Quoth he, "And how was that?"
Quoth she, "There hath been told me, O auspicious and
well-advised King, a tale of



The Kings Son and the Ogress.[FN#171]



A certain King had a son, whom he loved and favoured with
exceeding favour, over all his other children; and this son said
to him one day, "O my father, I have a mind to fare a-coursing
and a-hunting." So the King bade furnish him and commanded one of
his Wazirs to bear him company and do all the service he needed
during his trip. The Minister accordingly took everything that
was necessary for the journey and they set out with a retinue of
eunuchs and officers and pages, and rode on, sporting as they
went, till they came to a green and well-grassed champaign
abounding in pasture and water and game. Here the Prince turned
to the Minister and told him that the place pleased him and he
purposed to halt there. So they set down in that site and they
loosed the falcons and lynxes and dogs and caught great plenty of
game, whereat they rejoiced and abode there some days, in all
joyance of life and its delight. Then the King's son gave the
signal for departure; but, as they went along, a beautiful
gazelle, as if the sun rose shining from between her horns, that
had strayed from her mate, sprang up before the Prince, whereupon
his soul longed to make prize of her and he coveted her. So he
said to the Wazir, "I have a mind to follow that gazelle;" and
the Minister replied, "Do what seemeth good to thee." Thereupon
the Prince rode single-handed after the gazelle, till he lost
sight of his companions, and chased her all that day till dusk,
when she took refuge in a bit of rocky ground[FN#172] and
darkness closed in upon him. Then he would have turned back, but
knew not the way; whereat he was sore concerned and said, "There
is no Majesty and there is no Might save in Allah, the Glorious,
the Great!" He sat his mare all night till morning dawned, in
quest of relief, but found none; and, when the day appeared, he
fared on at hazard fearful, famished, thirsty, and knowing not
whither to wend till it was noon and the sun beat down upon him
with burning heat. By that time he came in sight of a great city,
with massive base and lofty bulwarks; but it was ruined and
desolate, nor was there any live thing therein save owl and
raven. As he stood among the buildings, marvelling at their
ordinance, lo! his eyes fell on a damsel, young, beautiful and
lovely, sitting under one of the city walls wailing and weeping
copious tears. So he drew nigh to her and asked, "Who art thou
and who brought thee hither?" She answered, "I am called Bint
al-Tamimah, daughter of Al-Tiyakh, King of the Gray Country. I
went out one day to obey a call of nature,[FN#173] when an Ifrit
of the Jinn snatched me up and soared with me between heaven and
earth; but as he flew there fell on him a shooting-star in the
form of a flame of fire and burned him, and I dropped here, where
these three days I have hungered and thirsted; but when I saw
thee I longed for life." --And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of
day and ceased to say her permitted say.

     When it was the Five Hundred and Eighty-second Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the Prince
when addressed by the daughter of King Al-Tiyakh who said to him,
"When I saw thee I longed for life," was smitten with ruth and
grief for her and took her up on his courser's crupper, saying,
"Be of good cheer and keep thine eyes cool and clear; for, if
Allah (extolled and exalted be He!) restore me to my people and
family, I will send thee back to thine own folk." Then he rode
on, praying for deliverance, and presently the damsel said to
him, "O King's son, set me down, that I may do an occasion under
this wall." So he drew bridle and she alighted. He waited for her
a long while as she hid herself behind the wall; and she came
forth, with the foulest of favours; which when he saw, his hair
stood on end and he quaked for fear of her and he turned deadly
pale. Then she sprang up on his steed, behind him, wearing the
most loathly of aspects, and presently she said to him, "O King's
son, what ails thee that I see thee troubled and thy favour
changed?" "I have bethought me of somewhat that troubles me."
"Seek aid against it of thy father's troops and his braves." "He
whom I fear careth naught f