ore likely death; and Ann's a
dooless critter at best, hardly ever off the place, and need o' Chris'en
help, if there ever was such; so don't ask me to stay, for I won't, and
all the better for me, for I daresn't open my lips to livin' soul till
I've spoke with Mary Potter!"

Miss Lavender took the foot-path across the fields, accompanied by
Giles, who gave up his saddled horse to Dr. Deane. The dawn was
brightening in the sky as they reached the farm-house, where they found
Alfred Barton restlessly walking backwards and forwards in the kitchen,
while Ann and Mr. Stacy were endeavoring to apply such scanty
restoratives--consisting principally of lavender and hot bricks--as the
place afforded.

An examination of the eyes and the pulse, and a last abortive attempt at
phlebotomy, convinced Dr. Deane that his services were no longer needed.
Death, which so many years before had lamed half the body, now asserted
his claim to the whole. A wonderfully persistent principle of vitality
struggled against the clogged functions, for two or three hours, then
yielded, and the small fragment of soul in the old man was cast adrift,
with little chance of finding a comfortable lodging in any other world.

Ann wandered about the kitchen in a dazed state, dropping tears
everywhere, and now and then moaning,--"O Betsy, how'll I ever get up
the funeral dinner?" while Alfred, after emptying the square bottle of
brandy, threw himself upon the settle and went to sleep. Mr. Stacy and
Miss Lavender, who seemed to know each other thoroughly at the first
sight, took charge of all the necessary arrangements; and as Alfred had
said,--"_I_ can't look after anything; do as you two like, and don't
spare expense!" they ordered the coffin, dispatched messengers to the
relatives and neighbors, and soothed Ann's unquiet soul by selecting the
material for the dinner, and engaging the Unicorn's cook.

When all was done, late in the day, Miss Lavender called Giles and
said,--"Saddle me a horse, and if no side-saddle, a man's'll do, for go
I must; it's business o' my own, Mr. Stacy, and won't wait for me; not
that I want to do more this day than what I've done. Goodness knows; but
I'll have a fit, myself, if I don't!"

She reached the Potter farm-house at dark, and both mother and son were
struck with her flushed, excited, and yet weary air. Their supper was
over, but she refused to take anything more than a cup of tea; her
speech was forced, and more rambling and disconnected than ever. When
Mary Potter left the kitchen to bring some fresh cream from the
spring-house, Miss Lavender hastily approached Gilbert, laid her hand on
his shoulder, and said,--

"Lad, be good this once't, and do what I tell you. Make a reason for
goin' to bed as soon as you can; for I've been workin' in your interest
all this while, only I've got that to tell your mother, first of all,
which you mustn't hear; and you may hope as much as you please, for the
news isn't bad, as'll soon be made manifest!"

Gilbert was strangely impressed by her solemn, earnest manner, and
promised to obey. He guessed, and yet feared to believe, that the long
release of which his mother had spoken bad come at last; how else, he
asked himself, should Miss Lavender become possessed of knowledge which
seemed so important? As early as possible he went up to his bedroom,
leaving the two women alone. The sound of voices, now high and hurried,
now, apparently, low and broken, came to his ears. He resisted the
temptation to listen, smothered his head in the pillow to further muffle
the sounds, and after a long, restless struggle with his own mind, fell
asleep. Deep in the night he was awakened by the noise of a shutting
door, and then all was still.

It was very evident, in the morning, that he had not miscalculated the
importance of Miss Lavender's communication. Was this woman, whose face
shone with such a mingled light of awe and triumph, his mother? Were
these features, where the deep lines of patience were softened into
curves of rejoicing, the dark, smouldering gleam of sorrow kindled into
a flashing light of pride, those he had known from childhood? As he
looked at her, in wonder renewed with every one of her movements and
glances, she took him by the hand and said,--

"Gilbert, wait a little!"

Miss Lavender insisted on having breakfast by sunrise, and as soon as
the meal was over demanded her horse. Then first she announced the fact
of Old-man Barton's death, and that the funeral was to be on the
following day.

"Mary, you must be sure and come," she said, as she took leave; "I know
Ann expects it of you. Ten o'clock, remember!"

Gilbert noticed that his mother laid aside her sewing, and when the
ordinary household labor had been performed, seated herself near the
window with a small old Bible, which he had never before seen in her
hands. There was a strange fixedness in her gaze, as if only her eyes,
not her thoughts, were directed upon its pages. The new expression of
her face remained; it seemed already to have acquired as permanent a
stamp as the old. Against his will he was infected by its power, and
moved about in barn and field all day with a sense of the unreality of
things, which was very painful to his strong, practical nature.

The day of the old man's funeral came. Sam led up the horses, and waited
at the gate with them to receive his master's parting instructions.
Gilbert remarked with surprise that his mother placed a folded paper
between the leaves of the Bible, tied the book carefully in a linen
handkerchief, and carried it with her. She was ready, but still
hesitated, looking around the kitchen with the manner of one who had
forgotten something. Then she returned to her own room, and after some
minutes, came forth, paler than before, but proud, composed, and firm.

"Gilbert," she said, almost in a whisper, "I have tried you sorely, and
you have been wonderfully kind and patient. I have no right to ask
anything more; I _could_ tell you everything now, but this is not the
place nor the time I had thought of, for so many years past. Will you
let me finish the work in the way pointed out to me?"

"Mother," he answered, "I cannot judge in this matter, knowing nothing.
I must be led by you; but, pray, do not let it be long?"

"It will not be long, my boy, or I wouldn't ask it. I have one more duty
to perform, to myself, to you, and to the Lord, and it must be done in
the sight of men. Will you stand by me, not question my words, not
interfere with my actions, however strange they may seem, but simply
believe and obey?"

"I will, mother," he said, "because you make me feel that I must."

They mounted, and side by side rode up the glen. Mary Potter was silent;
now and then her lips moved, not, as once, in some desperate appeal of
the heart for pity and help, but as with a thanksgiving so profound that
it must needs be constantly renewed, to be credited.

After passing Carson's, they took the shorter way across the fields, and
approached the Barton farm-house from below. A large concourse of people
was already assembled; and the rude black hearse, awaiting its burden in
the lane, spread the awe and the gloom of death over the scene. The
visitors were grouped around the doors, silent or speaking cautiously in
subdued tones; and all new-comers passed into the house to take their
last look at the face, of the dead.

The best room, in which the corpse lay, was scarcely used once in a
year, and many of the neighbors had never before had occasion to enter
it. The shabby, antiquated furniture looked cold and dreary from disuse,
and the smell of camphor in the air hardly kept down the musty, mouldy
odors which exhaled from the walls. The head and foot of the coffin
rested on two chairs placed in the centre of the room; and several
women, one of whom was Miss Betsy Lavender, conducted the visitors back
and forth, as they came. The members of the bereaved family were stiffly
ranged around the walls, the chief mourners consisting of the old man's
eldest son, Elisha, with his wife and three married sons, Alfred, and
Ann.

Mary Potter took her son's arm, and they passed through the throng at
the door, and entered the house. Gilbert silently returned the nods of
greeting; his mother neither met nor avoided the eyes of others. Her
step was firm, her head erect, her bearing full of pride and decision.
Miss Lavender, who met her with a questioning glance at the door, walked
beside her to the room of death, and then--what was remarkable in
her--became very pale.

They stood by the coffin. It was not a peaceful, solemn sight, that
yellow face, with its wrinkles and creases and dark blotches of
congealed blood, made more pronounced and ugly by the white shroud and
cravat, yet a tear rolled down Mary Potter's cheek as she gazed upon it.
Other visitors came, and Gilbert gently drew her away, to leave the
room; but with a quick pressure upon his arm, as if to remind him of his
promise, she quietly took her seat near the mourners, and by a slight
motion indicated that he should seat himself at her side.

It was an unexpected and painful position; but her face, firm and calm,
shamed his own embarrassment. He saw, nevertheless, that the grief of
the mourners was not so profound as to suppress the surprise, if not
indignation, which the act called forth. The women had their
handkerchiefs to their eyes, and were weeping in a slow, silent,
mechanical way; the men had handkerchiefs in their hands, but their
faces were hard, apathetic, and constrained.

By-and-by the visitors ceased; the attending women exchanged glances
with each other and with the mourners, and one of the former stepped up
to Mary Potter and said gently,--

"It is only the family, now."

This was according to custom, which required that just before the coffin
was closed, the members of the family of the deceased should be left
alone with him for a few minutes, and take their farewell of his face,
undisturbed by other eyes. Gilbert would have risen, but his mother,
with her hand on his arm, quietly replied,--

"We belong to the family."

The woman withdrew, though with apparent doubt and hesitation, and they
were left alone with the mourners.

Gilbert could scarcely trust his senses. A swift suspicion of his
mother's insanity crossed his mind; but when he looked around the room
and beheld Alfred Barton gazing upon her with a face more livid than
that of the dead man, this suspicion was followed by another, no less
overwhelming. For a few minutes everything seemed to whirl and spin
before his eyes; a light broke upon him, but so unexpected, so
incredible, that it came with the force of a blow.

The undertaker entered the room and screwed down the lid of the coffin;
the pall-bearers followed and carried it to the hearse. Then the
mourners rose and prepared to set forth, in the order of their relation
to the deceased. Elisha Barton led the way, with his wife; then Ann,
clad in her Sunday black, stepped forward to take Alfred's arm.

"Ann," said Mary Potter, in a low voice, which yet was heard by every
person in the room, "that is my place."

She left Gilbert and moved to Alfred Barton's side. Then, slightly
turning, she said,--"Gilbert, give your arm to your aunt."

For a full minute no other word was said. Alfred Barton stood
motionless, with Mary Potter's hand on his arm. A fiery flush succeeded
to his pallor; his jaw fell, and his eyes were fixed upon the floor. Ann
took Gilbert's arm in a helpless, bewildered way.

"Alfred, what does all this mean?" Elisha finally asked.

He said nothing; Mary Potter answered for him,--"It is right that he
should walk with his wife rather than his sister."

The horses and chairs were waiting in the lane, and helping neighbors
were at the door; but the solemn occasion was forgotten, in the shock
produced by this announcement. Gilbert started and almost reeled; Ann
clung to him with helpless terror; and only Elisha, whose face grew dark
and threatening, answered.

"Woman," he said, "you are out of your senses! Leave us; you have no
business here!"

She met him with a proud, a serene and steady countenance. "Elisha," she
answered, "we are here to bury your father and my father-in-law. Let be
until the grave has closed over him; then ask Alfred whether I could
dare to take my rightful place before to-day."

The solemn decision of her face and voice struck him dumb. His wife
whispered a few words in his ear, and he turned away with her, to take
his place in the funeral procession.

It was Alfred Barton's duty to follow, and if it was not grief which
impelled him to bury his face in his handkerchief as they issued from
the door, it was a torture keener than was ever mingled with grief,--the
torture of a mean nature, pilloried in its meanest aspect for the public
gaze. Mary, (we must not call her Potter, and cannot yet call her
Barton,) rather led him than was led by him, and lifted her face to the
eyes of men. The shame which she might have felt, as his wife, was lost
in the one overpowering sense of the justification for which she had so
long waited and suffered.

When the pair appeared in the yard, and Gilbert followed with Miss Ann
Barton on his arm, most of the funeral guests looked on in stupid
wonder, unable to conceive the reason of the two thus appearing among
the mourners. But when they had mounted and were moving off, a rumor of
the startling truth ran from lip to lip. The proper order of the
procession was forgotten; some untied their horses in haste and pushed
forward to convince themselves of the astonishing fact; others gathered
into groups and discussed it earnestly. Some had suspected a relation of
the kind, all along, so they said; others scouted at the story, and were
ready with explanations of their own. But not a soul had another thought
to spare for Old-man Barton that day.

Dr. Deane and Martha heard what had happened as they were mounting their
horses. When they took their places in the line, the singular
companionship, behind the hearse, was plainly visible. Neither spoke a
word, but Martha felt that her heart was beating fast, and that her
thoughts were unsteady.

Presently Miss Lavender rode up and took her place at her side. Tears
were streaming from her eyes, and she was using her handkerchief freely.
It was sometime before she could command her feelings enough to say, in
a husky whisper,--

"I never thought to ha' had a hand in such wonderful doin's, and how I
held up through it, I can't tell. Glory to the Lord, the end has come;
but, no--not yet--not quite; only enough for one day, Martha; isn't
it?"

"Betsy," said Martha, "please ride a little closer, and explain to me
how it came about. Give me one or two points for my mind to rest on, for
I don't seem to believe even what I see."

"What I see. No wonder, who could? Well, it's enough that Mary was
married to Alf. Barton a matter o' twenty-six year ago, and that he
swore her to keep it secret till th' old man died, and he's been her
husband all this while, and knowed it!"

"Father!" Martha exclaimed in a low, solemn voice, turning to Dr. Deane,
"think, now, what it was thee would have had me do!"

The Doctor was already aware of his terrible mistake. "Thee was led,
child," he answered, "thee was led! It was a merciful Providence."

"Then might thee not also admit that I have been led in that other
respect, which has been so great a trial to thee?"

He made no reply.

The road to Old Kennett never seemed so long; never was a corpse so
impatiently followed. A sense of decency restrained those who were not
relatives from pushing in advance of those who were; yet it was, very
tantalizing to look upon the backs of Alfred Barton and Mary, Gilbert
and Ann, when their faces must be such a sight to see!

These four, however, rode in silence. Each, it may be guessed, was
sufficiently occupied with his or her own sensations,--except, perhaps,
Ann Barton, who had been thrown so violently out of her quiet, passive
round of life by her father's death, that she was incapable of any great
surprise. Her thoughts were more occupied with the funeral-dinner, yet
to come, than with the relationship of the young man at her side.

Gilbert slowly admitted the fact into his mind, but he was so unprepared
for it by anything in his mother's life or his own intercourse with
Alfred Barton, that he was lost in a maze of baffled conjectures. While
this confusion lasted, he scarcely thought of his restoration to honor,
or the breaking down of that fatal barrier between him and Martha Deane.
His first sensation was one of humiliation and disappointment. How often
had he been disgusted with Alfred Barton's meanness and swagger! How
much superior, in many of the qualities of manhood, was even the
highwayman, whose paternity he had so feared! As he looked at the broad,
heavy form before him, in which even the lines of the back expressed
cowardice and abject shame, he almost doubted whether his former
disgrace was not preferable to his present claim to respect.

Then his eyes turned to his mother's figure, and a sweet, proud joy
swept away the previous emotion. Whatever the acknowledged relationship
might be to him, to her it was honor--yea, more than honor; for by so
much and so cruelly as she had fallen below the rights of her pure name
as a woman, the higher would she now be set, not only in respect, but in
the reverence earned by her saintly patience and self-denial. The
wonderful transformation of her face showed him what this day was to her
life, and he resolved that no disappointment of his own should come
between her and her triumph.

To Gilbert the way was not too long, nor the progress too slow. It gave
him time to grow familiar, not only with the fact, but with his duty. He
forcibly postponed his wandering conjectures, and compelled his mind to
dwell upon that which lay immediately before him.

It was nearly noon before the hearse reached Old Kennett meeting-house.
The people of the neighborhood, who had collected to await its arrival,
came forward and assisted the mourners to alight. Alfred Barton
mechanically took his place beside his wife, but again buried his face
in his handkerchief. As the wondering, impatient crowd gathered around,
Gilbert felt that all was known, and that all eyes were fixed upon
himself and his mother, and his face reflected her own firmness and
strength. From neither could the spectators guess what might be passing
in their hearts. They were both paler than usual, and their resemblance
to each other became very striking. Gilbert, in fact, seemed to have
nothing of his father except the peculiar turn of his shoulders and the
strong build of his chest.

They walked over the grassy, briery, unmarked mounds of old graves to
the spot where a pile of yellow earth denoted Old Barton's
resting-place. When the coffin had been lowered, his children, in
accordance with custom, drew near, one after the other, to bend over and
look into the narrow pit. Gilbert led up his trembling aunt, who might
have fallen in, had he not carefully supported her. As he was
withdrawing, his eyes suddenly encountered those of Martha Deane, who
was standing opposite, in the circle of hushed spectators. In spite of
himself a light color shot into his face, and his lips trembled. The
eager gossips, who had not missed even the wink of an eyelid, saw this
fleeting touch of emotion, and whence it came. Thenceforth Martha shared
their inspection; but from the sweet gravity of her face, the untroubled
calm of her eyes, they learned nothing more.

When the grave had been filled, and the yellow mound ridged and patted
with the spade, the family returned to the grassy space in front of the
meeting-house, and now their more familiar acquaintances, and many who
were not, gathered around to greet them and offer words of condolence.
An overpowering feeling of curiosity was visible upon every face; those
who did not venture to use their tongues, used their eyes the more.

Alfred Barton was forced to remove the handkerchief from his face, and
its haggard wretchedness (which no one attributed to grief for his
father's death), could no longer be hidden. He appeared to have suddenly
become an old man, with deeper wrinkles, slacker muscles, and a
helpless, tottering air of weakness. The corners of his mouth drooped,
hollowing his cheeks, and his eyes seemed unable to bear up the weight
of the lids; they darted rapidly from side to side, or sought the
ground, not daring to encounter, for more than an instant, those of
others.

There was no very delicate sense of propriety among the people, and very
soon an inquisitive old Quaker remarked,--

"Why, Mary, is this true that I hear? Are you two man and wife?"

"We are," she said.

"Bless us! how did it happen?"

The bystanders became still as death, and all ears were stretched to
catch the answer. But she, with proud, impenetrable calmness, replied,--

"It will be made known."

And with these words the people were forced, that day to be satisfied.




CHAPTER XXXI.

THE WILL.


During the homeward journey from the grave, Gilbert and his mother were
still the central figures of interest. That the members of the Barton
family were annoyed and humiliated, was evident to all eyes; but it was
a pitiful, undignified position, which drew no sympathy towards them,
while the proud, composed gravity of the former commanded respect. The
young men and women, especially, were unanimously of the opinion that
Gilbert had conducted himself like a man. They were disappointed, it was
true, that he and Martha Deane had not met, in the sight of all. It was
impossible to guess whether she had been already aware of the secret, or
how the knowledge of it would affect their romantic relation to each
other.

Could the hearts of the lovers have been laid bare, the people would
have seen that never had each felt such need of the other,--never had
they been possessed with such restless yearning. To the very last,
Gilbert's eyes wandered from time to time towards the slender figure in
the cavalcade before him, hoping for the chance of a word or look; but
Martha's finer instinct told her that she must yet hold herself aloof.
She appreciated the solemnity of the revelation, saw that much was yet
unexplained, and could have guessed, even without Miss Lavender's
mysterious hints, that the day would bring forth other and more
important disclosures.

As the procession drew nearer Kennett Square, the curiosity of the
funeral guests, baulked and yet constantly stimulated, began to grow
disorderly. Sally Fairthorn was in such a flutter that she scarcely knew
what she said or did; Mark's authority alone prevented her from dashing
up to Gilbert, regardless of appearances. The old men, especially those
in plain coats and broad-brimmed hats, took every opportunity to press
near the mourners; and but for Miss Betsy Lavender, who hovered around
the latter like a watchful dragon, both Gilbert and his mother would
have been seriously annoyed. Finally the gate at the lane-end closed
upon them, and the discomfited public rode on to the village, tormented
by keen envy of the few who had been bidden to the funeral-dinner.

When Mary alighted from her horse, the old lawyer approached her.

"My name is Stacy, Mrs. Barton," he said, "and Miss Lavender will have
told you who I am. Will you let me have a word with you in private?"

She slightly started at the name he had given her; it was the first
symptom of agitation she had exhibited. He took her aside, and began
talking earnestly in a low tone. Elisha Barton looked on with an amazed,
troubled air, and presently turned to his brother.

"Alfred," he said, "it is quite time all this was explained."

But Miss Lavender interfered.

"It's your right, Mr. Elisha, no denyin' that, and the right of all the
fam'ly; so we've agreed to have it done afore all together, in the
lawful way, Mr. Stacy bein' a lawyer; but dinner first, if you please,
for eatin' 's good both for grief and cur'osity, and it's hard tellin'
which is uppermost in this case. Gilbert, come here!"

He was standing alone, beside the paling. He obeyed her call.

"Gilbert, shake hands with your uncle and aunt Mr. Elisha, this is your
nephew, Gilbert Barton, Mr. Alfred's son."

They looked at each other for a moment. There was that in Gilbert's face
which enforced respect. Contrasted with his father, who stood on one
side, darting stealthy glances at the group from the corners of his
eyes, his bearing was doubly brave and noble. He offered his hand in
silence, and both Elisha Barton and his wife felt themselves compelled
to take it. Then the three sons, who knew the name of Gilbert Potter,
and were more astonished than shocked at the new relationship, came up
and greeted their cousin in a grave but not unfriendly way.

"That's right!" exclaimed Miss Lavender. "And now come in to dinner, all
o' ye! I gev orders to have the meats dished as soon as the first horse
was seen over the rise o' the hill, and it'll all be smokin' on the
table."

Though the meal was such as no one had ever before seen in the Barton
farm-house, it was enjoyed by very few of the company. The sense of
something to come after it made them silent and uncomfortable. Mr.
Stacy, Miss Lavender, and the sons of Elisha Barton, with their wives,
carried on a scattering, forced conversation, and there was a general
feeling of relief when the pies, marmalade, and cheese had been
consumed, and the knives and forks laid crosswise over the plates.

When they arose from the table, Mr. Stacy led the way into the parlor. A
fire, in the mean time, had been made in the chill, open fireplace, but
it scarcely relieved the dreary, frosty aspect of the apartment. The
presence of the corpse seemed to linger there, attaching itself with
ghastly distinctness to the chair and hickory staff in a corner.

The few dinner-guests who were not relatives understood that this
meeting excluded them, and Elisha Barton was therefore surprised to
notice, after they had taken their seats, that Miss Lavender was one of
the company.

"I thought," he said, with a significant look, "that it was to be the
family only."

"Miss Lavender is one of the witnesses to the will," Mr. Stacy answered,
"and her presence is necessary, moreover, as an important testimony in
regard to some of its provisions."

Alfred Barton and Gilbert both started at these words, but from very
different feelings. The former, released from public scrutiny, already
experienced a comparative degree of comfort, and held up his head with
an air of courage; yet now the lawyer's announcement threw him into an
agitation which it was not possible to conceal. Miss Lavender looked
around the circle, coolly nodded her head to Elisha Barton, and said
nothing.

Mr. Stacy arose, unlocked a small niche let into the wall of the house,
and produced the heavy oaken casket in which the old man kept the
documents relating to his property. This he placed upon a small table
beside his chair, opened it, and took out the topmost paper. He was
completely master of the situation, and the deliberation with which he
surveyed the circle of excited faces around him seemed to indicate that
he enjoyed the fact.

"The last will and testament of Abiah Barton, made the day before his
death," he said, "revokes all former wills, which were destroyed by his
order, in the presence of myself and Miss Elizabeth Lavender."

All eyes were turned upon the spinster, who again nodded, with a face of
preternatural solemnity.

"In order that you, his children and grandchildren," Mr. Stacy
continued, "may rightly understand the deceased's intention in making
this last will, when the time comes for me to read it, I must first
inform you that he was acquainted with the fact of his son Alfred's
marriage with Mary Potter."

Alfred Barton half sprang from his seat, and then fell back with the
same startled, livid face, which Gilbert already knew. The others held
their breath in suspense,--except Mary, who sat near the lawyer, firm,
cold, and unmoved.

"The marriage of Alfred Barton and Mary Potter must therefore be
established, to _your_ satisfaction," Mr. Stacy resumed, turning towards
Elisha. "Alfred Barton, I ask you to declare whether this woman is your
lawfully wedded wife?"

A sound almost like a groan came from his throat, but it formed the
syllable,--"Yes."

"Further, I ask you to declare whether Gilbert Barton, who has until
this day borne his mother's name of Potter, is your lawfully begotten
son?"

"Yes."

"To complete the evidence," said the lawyer, "Mary Barton, give me the
paper in your hands."

She untied the handkerchief, opened the Bible, and handed Mr. Stacy the
slip of paper which Gilbert had seen her place between the leaves that
morning. The lawyer gave it to Elisha Barton, with the request that he
would read it aloud.

It was the certificate of a magistrate at Burlington, in the Colony of
New Jersey, setting forth that he had united in wedlock Alfred Barton
and Mary Potter. The date was in the month of June, 1771.

"This paper," said Elisha, when he had finished reading, "appears to be
genuine. The evidence must have been satisfactory to you, Mr. Stacy, and
to my father, since it appears to have been the cause of his making a
new will; but as this new will probably concerns me and my children, I
demand to know why; if the marriage was legal, it has been kept secret
so long? The fact of the marriage does not explain what has happened
to-day."

Mr. Stacy turned towards Gilbert's mother, and made a sign.

"Shall I explain it in my way, Alfred?" she asked, "or will you, in
yours?"

"There's but one story," he answered, "and I guess it falls to your
place to tell it." "It does!" she exclaimed. "You, Elisha and Ann, and
you, Gilbert, my child, take notice that every word of what I shall say
is the plain God's truth. Twenty-seven years ago, when I was a young
woman of twenty, I came to this farm to help Ann with the house-work.
You remember it, Ann; it was just after your mother's death. I was poor;
I had neither father nor mother, but I was as proud as the proudest, and
the people called me good-looking. You were vexed with me, Ann, because
the young men came now and then, of a Sunday afternoon; but I put up
with your hard words. You did not know that I understood what Alfred's
eyes meant when he looked at me; I put up with you because I believed I
could be mistress of the house, in your place. You have had your revenge
of me since, if you felt the want of it--so let that rest!"

She paused. Ann, with her handkerchief to her eyes, sobbed out,--"Mary,
I always liked you better 'n you thought."

"I can believe it," she continued, "for I have been forced to look into
my heart and learn how vain and mistaken I then was. But I liked Alfred,
in those days; he was a gay young man, and accounted good-looking, and
there were merry times just before the war, and he used to dress
bravely, and was talked about as likely to marry this girl or that. My
head was full of him, and I believed my heart was. I let him see from
the first that it must be honest love between us, or not at all; and the
more I held back, the more eager was he, till others began to notice,
and the matter was brought to his father's ears."

"I remember that!" cried Elisha, suddenly.

"Yet it was kept close," she resumed. "Alfred told me that the old man
had threatened to cut him out of his will if he should marry me, and I
saw that I must leave the farm; but I gave out that I was tired of the
country, and wanted to find service in Philadelphia. I believed that
Alfred would follow me in a week or two, and he did. He brought news I
didn't expect, and it turned my head upside down. His father had had a
paralytic stroke, and nobody believed he'd live more than a few weeks.
It was in the beginning of June, and the doctors said he couldn't get
over the hot weather. Alfred said to me, Why wait?--you'll be taking up
with some city fellow, and I want you to be my wife at once. On my side
I thought, Let him be made rich and free by his father's death, and
wives will be thrown in his way; he'll lose his liking for me, by little
and little, and somebody else will be mistress of the farm. So I agreed,
and we went to Burlington together, as being more out of the way and
easier to be kept secret; but just before we came to the Squire's, he
seemed to grow fearsome all at once, lest it should be found out, and he
bought a Bible and swore me by my soul's salvation never to say I was
married to him until after his father died. Here's the Bible, Alfred! Do
you remember it? Here, here's the place where I kissed it when I took
the oath!"

She rose from her seat, and held it towards him. No one could doubt the
solemn truth of her words. He nodded his head mechanically, unable to
speak. Still standing, she turned towards Elisha Barton, and
exclaimed,--

"_He_ took the same oath, but what did it mean to him! What does it mean
to a man? I was young and vain; I thought only of holding fast to my
good luck! I never thought of--of"--(here her faced flushed, and her
voice began to tremble)--"of _you_, Gilbert! I fed my pride by hoping
for a man's death, and never dreamed I was bringing a curse on a life
that was yet to come! Perhaps he didn't then, either; the Lord pardon me
if I judge him too hard. What I charge him with, is that he held me to
my oath, when--when the fall went by and the winter, and his father
lived, and his son was to be born! It was always the same,--Wait a
little, a month or so, maybe; the old man couldn't live, and it was the
difference between riches and poverty for us. Then I begged for poverty
and my good name, and after that he kept away from me. Before Gilbert
was born, I hoped I might die in giving him life; then I felt that I
must live for his sake. I saw my sin, and what punishment the Lord had
measured out to me, and that I must earn His forgiveness; and He
mercifully hid from my sight the long path that leads to this day; for
if the release hadn't seemed so near, I never could have borne to wait!"

All the past agony of her life seemed to discharge itself in these
words. They saw what the woman had suffered, what wonderful virtues of
patience and faith had been developed from the vice of her pride, and
there was no heart in the company so stubborn as to refuse her honor.
Gilbert's eyes were fixed on her face with an absorbing expression of
reverence; he neither knew nor heeded that there were tears on his
cheeks. The women wept in genuine emotion, and even the old lawyer was
obliged to wipe his dimmed spectacles.

Elisha rose, and approaching Alfred, asked, in a voice which he strove
to make steady,--"Is all this true?"

Alfred sank his head; his reply was barely audible,--

"She has said no more than the truth."

"Then," said Elisha, taking her hand, "I accept you, Mary Barton, and
acknowledge your place in our family."

Elisha's wife followed, and embraced her with many tears, and lastly
Ann, who hung totteringly upon her shoulder as she cried,--

"Indeed, Mary, indeed I always liked you; I never wished you any harm!"

Thus encouraged, Alfred Barton made a powerful effort. There seemed but
one course for him to take; it was a hard one, but he took it.

"Mary," he said, "you have full right and justice on your side. I've
acted meanly towards you--meaner, I'm afraid, than any man before ever
acted towards his wife. Not only to you, but to Gilbert; but I always
meant to do my duty in the end. I waited from month to month, and year
to year, as you did; and then things got set in their way, and it was
harder and harder to let out the truth. I comforted myself--that wasn't
right, either, I know,--but I comforted myself with the thought that you
were doing well; I never lost sight of you, and I've been proud of
Gilbert, though I didn't dare show it, and always wanted to lend him a
helping hand, if he'd let me."

She drew herself up and faced him with flashing eyes.

"How did you mean to do your duty by me? How did you mean to lend
Gilbert a helping hand? Was it by trying to take a second wife during my
lifetime, and that wife the girl whom Gilbert loves?"

Her questions cut to the quick, and the shallow protestations he would
have set up were stripped off in a moment, leaving bare every cowardly
shift of his life. Nothing was left but the amplest confession.

"You won't believe me, Mary," he stammered, feebly weeping with pity of
his own miserable plight, "and I can't ask to--but it's the truth! Give
me your Bible! I'll kiss the place you kissed, and swear before God that
I never meant to marry Martha Deane! I let the old man think so, because
he hinted it'd make a difference in his will, and he drove me--he and
Dr. Deane together--to speak to her. I was a coward and a fool that I
let myself be driven that far, but I couldn't and wouldn't have married
her!"

"The whole snarl's comin' undone," interrupted Miss Lavender. "I see the
end on't. Do you mind that day, Alf. Barton, when I come upon you
suddent, settin' on the log and sayin' 'I can't see the way,'--the very
day, I'll be snaked, that you spoke to the Doctor about Martha
Deane!--and then _you_ so mortal glad that she wouldn't have you! You
_have_ acted meaner 'n dirt; I don't excuse him, Mary; but never mind,
justice is justice, and he's told the truth this once't."

"Sit down, friends!" said Mr. Stacy. "Before the will is read, I want
Miss Lavender to relate how it was that Abiah Barton and myself became
acquainted with the fact of the marriage."

The reading of the will had been almost forgotten in the powerful
interest excited by Mary Barton's narrative. The curiosity to know its
contents instantly revived, but was still subordinate to that which the
lawyer's statement occasioned. The whole story was so singular, that it
seemed as yet but half explained.

"Well, to begin at the beginnin'," said Miss Lavender, "it all come o'
my wishin' to help two true-lovyers, and maybe you'll think I'm as
foolish as I'm old, but never mind, I'll allow that; and I saw that
nothin' could be done till Gilbert got his lawful name, and how to get
it was the trouble, bein' as Mary was swore to keep secret. The long and
the short of it is, I tried to worm it out o' her, but no use; she set
her teeth as tight as sin, and all I did learn was, that when she was in
Phildelphy--I knowed Gilbert was born there, but didn't let on--she
lived at Treadwells, in Fourth Street Then turnin' over everything in my
mind, I suspicioned that she must be waitin' for somebody to die, and
that's what held her bound; it seemed to me I must guess right away, but
I couldn't and couldn't, and so goin' up the hill, nigh puzzled to
death, Gilbert ploughin' away from me, bendin' his head for'ard a
little--there! turn round, Gilbert! turn round, Alf. Barton I Look at
them two sets o' shoulders!"

Miss Lavender's words were scarcely comprehensible, but all saw the
resemblance between father and son, in the outline of the shoulders, and
managed to guess her meaning.

"Well," she continued, "it struck me then and there, like a streak o'
lightnin'; I screeched and tumbled like a shot hawk, and so betwixt the
saddle and the ground, as the sayin' is, it come to me--not mercy, but
knowledge, all the same, you know what I mean; and I saw them was Alf.
Barton's shoulders, and I remembered the old man was struck with palsy
the year afore Gilbert was born, and I dunno how many other things come
to me all of a heap; and now you know, Gilbert, what made me holler. I
borrowed the loan o' his bay horse and put off for Phildelphy the very
next day, and a mortal job it was; what with bar'ls and boxes pitched
hither and yon, and people laughin' at y'r odd looks,--don't talk o'
Phildelphy manners to me, for I've had enough of 'em!--and old Treadwell
dead when I did find him, and the daughter married to Greenfield in the
brass and tin-ware business, it's a mercy I ever found out anything."

"Come to the point, Betsy," said Elisha, impatiently.

"The point, Betsy. The p'int 's this: I made out from the Greenfield
woman that the man who used to come to see Mary Potter was the perfect
pictur' o' young Alf. Barton; then to where she went next, away down to
the t'other end o' Third Street, boardin', he payin' the board till just
afore Gilbert was born--and that's enough, thinks I, let me get out o'
this rackety place. So home I posted, but not all the way, for no use to
tell Mary Potter, and why not go right to Old-man Barton, and let him
know who his daughter-in-law and son is, and see what'll come of it? Th'
old man, you must know, always could abide me better 'n most women, and
I wasn't a bit afeard of him, not lookin' for legacies, and wouldn't
have 'em at any such price; but never mind. I hid my horse in the woods
and sneaked into the house across the fields, the back way, and good
luck that nobody was at home but Ann, here; and so I up and told the old
man the whole story."

"The devil!" Alfred Barton could not help exclaiming, as he recalled his
father's singular manner on the evening of the day in question.

"Devil!" Miss Lavender repeated. "More like an angel put it into my
head. But I see Mr. Elisha's fidgetty, so I'll make short work o' the
rest. He curst and swore awful, callin' Mr. Alfred a mean pup, and I
dunno what all, but he hadn't so much to say ag'in Mary Potter; he
allowed she was a smart lass, and he'd heerd o' Gilbert's doin's, and
the lad had grit in him. 'Then,' says I, 'here's a mighty wrong been
done, and it's for you to set it right afore you die, and if you manage
as I tell you, you can be even with Mr. Alfred;' and he perks up his
head and asks how, and says I 'This way'--but what I said'll be made
manifest by Mr. Stacy, without my jumpin' ahead o' the proper time. The
end of it was, he wound up by sayin',--'Gad, if Stacy was only here!'
'I'll bring him!' says I, and it was fixed betwixt and between us two,
Ann knowin' nothin' o' the matter; and off I trapesed back to Chester,
and brung Mr. Stacy, and if that good-for-nothin' Jake Fairthorn hadn't
ha' seen me"--

"That will do, Miss Lavender," said Mr. Stacy, interrupting her. "I have
only to add that Abiah Barton was so well convinced of the truth of the
marriage, that his new will only requires the proof which has to-day
been furnished, in order to express his intentions fully and completely.
It was his wish that I should visit Mary Barton on the very morning
afterwards; but his sudden death prevented it, and Miss Lavender
ascertained, the same evening, that Mary, in view of the neglect and
disgrace which she had suffered, demanded to take her justification into
her own hands. My opinion coincided with that of Miss Lavender, that she
alone had the right to decide in the matter, and that we must give no
explanation until she had asserted, in her own way, her release from a
most shameful and cruel bond."

It was a proud moment of Miss Lavender's life, when, in addition to her
services, the full extent of which would presently be known, a lawyer of
Mr. Stacy's reputation so respectfully acknowledged the wisdom of her
judgment.

"If further information upon any point is required," observed the
lawyer, "it may be asked for now; otherwise, I will proceed to the
reading of the will."

"Was--was my father of sound mind,--that is, competent to dispose of his
property?" asked Elisha Barton, with a little hesitation.

"I hope the question will not be raised," said Mr. Stacy, gravely; "but
if it is I must testify that he was in as full possession of his
faculties as at any time since his first attack, twenty-six years ago."

He then read the will, amid the breathless silence of the company. The
old man first devised to his elder son, Elisha Barton, the sum of twenty
thousand dollars, investments secured by mortgages on real estate; an
equal amount to his daughter-in-law, Mary, provided she was able to
furnish legal proof of her marriage to his son, Alfred Barton; five
thousand dollars each to his four grand-children, the three sons of
Elisha, and Gilbert Barton; ten thousand dollars to his daughter Ann;
and to his son Alfred the occupancy and use of the farm during his life,
the property, at his death, to pass into the hands of Gilbert Barton.
There was also a small bequest to Giles, and the reversions of the
estate were to be divided equally among all the heirs. The witnesses to
the will were James Stacy and Elizabeth Lavender.

Gilbert and his mother now recognized, for the first time, what they
owed to the latter. A sense of propriety kept them silent; the fortune
which had thus unexpectedly fallen into their hands was the least and
poorest part of their justification. Miss Lavender, also, was held to
silence, but it went hard with her. The reading of the will gave her
such an exquisite sense of enjoyment that she felt quite choked in the
hush which followed it.

"As the marriage is now proven," Mr. Stacy said, folding up the paper,
"there is nothing to prevent the will from being carried into effect."

"No, I suppose not," said Elisha; "it is as fair as could be expected."

"Mother, what do you say?" asked Gilbert, suddenly.

"Your grandfather wanted to do me justice, my boy," said she. "Twenty
thousand dollars will not pay me for twenty-five years of shame; no
money could; but it was the only payment he had to offer. I accept this
as I accepted my trials. The Lord sees fit to make my worldly path
smooth to my feet, and I have learned neither to reject mercy nor
wrath."

She was not elated; she would not, on that solemn day, even express
gratification in the legacy, for her son's sake. Though her exalted mood
was but dimly understood by the others, they felt its influence. If any
thought of disputing the will, on the ground of his father's
incompetency, had ever entered Elisha Barton's mind, he did not dare,
then or afterwards, to express it.

The day was drawing to a close, and Elisha Barton, with his sons, who
lived in the adjoining township of Pennsbury, made preparations to
leave. They promised soon to visit Gilbert and his mother. Miss
Lavender, taking Gilbert aside, announced that she was going to return
to Dr. Deane's.

"I s'pose I may tell her," she said, trying to hide her feelings under a
veil of clumsy irony, "that it's all up betwixt and between you, now
you're a rich man; and of course as she wouldn't have the father, she
can't think o' takin' the son."

"Betsy," he whispered, "tell her that I never yet needed her love so
much as now, and that I shall come to her tomorrow."

"Well, you know the door stands open, even accordin' to the Doctor's
words."

As Gilbert went forth to look after the horses, Alfred Barton followed
him. The two had not spoken directly to each other during the whole day.

"Gilbert," said the father, putting his hand on the son's shoulder, "you
know, now, why it always cut me, to have you think ill of me. I deserve
it, for I've been no father to you; and after what you've heard to-day,
I may never have a chance to be one. But if you _could_ give me a
chance--if you could"--

Here his voice seemed to fail. Gilbert quietly withdrew his shoulder
from the hand, hesitated a moment, and then said,--"Don't ask me
anything now, if you please. I can only think of my mother to-day."

Alfred Barton walked to the garden-fence, leaned his arms upon it, and
his head upon them. He was still leaning there, when mother and son rode
by in the twilight, on their way home.




CHAPTER XXXII.

THE LOVERS.


Both mother and son made the homeward ride in silence. A wide space, a
deep gulf of time, separated them from the morning. The events of the
day had been so startling, so pregnant with compressed fate, the
emotions they had undergone had been so profound, so mixed of the
keenest elements of wonder, pain, and pride, that a feeling of
exhaustion succeeded. The old basis of their lives seemed to have
shifted, and the new foundations were not yet firm under their feet.

Yet, as they sat together before the hearth-fire that evening, and the
stern, proud calm of Gilbert's face slowly melted into a gentler and
tenderer expression, his mother was moved to speak.

"This has been my day," she said; "it was appointed and set apart for me
from the first; it belonged to me, and I have used it, in my right, from
sun to sun. But I feel now, that it was not my own strength alone that
held me up. I am weak and weary, and it almost seems that I fail in
thanksgiving. Is it, Gilbert, because you do not rejoice as I had hoped
you would?"

"Mother," he answered, "whatever may happen in my life, I can never feel
so proud of myself, as I felt to-day, to be your son. I do rejoice for
your sake, as I shall for my own, no doubt, when I get better used to
the truth. You could not expect me, at once, to be satisfied with a
father who has not only acted so cruelly towards you, but whom I have
suspected of being my own rival and enemy. I don't think I shall ever
like the new name as well as the old, but it is enough for me that the
name brings honor and independence to you!"

"Perhaps I ought to ha' told you this morning, Gilbert I thought only of
the justification, not of the trial; and it seemed easier to speak in
actions, to you and to all men at once, as I did, than to tell the story
quietly to you alone. I feared it might take away my strength, if I
didn't follow, step by step, the course marked out for me."

"You were right, mother!" he exclaimed. "What trial had I, compared with
yours? What tale had I to tell--what pain to feel, except that if I had
not been born, you would have been saved twenty-five years of
suffering!"

"No, Gilbert!--never say, never think that! I see already the suffering
and the sorrow dying away as if they'd never been, and you left to me
for the rest of life the Lord grants; to me a son has been more than a
husband!"

"Then," he asked in an anxious, hesitating tone, "would you consider
that I was not quite so much a son--that any part of my duty to you was
lost--if I wished to bring you a daughter, also?".

"I know what you mean, Gilbert Betsy Lavender has told me all. I am glad
you spoke of it, this day; it will put the right feeling of thanksgiving
into my heart and yours. Martha Deane never stood between us, my boy; it
was I that stood between you and her!"

"Mother!" he cried, a joyous light shining from his face, "you love her?
You are willing that she should be my wife?"

"Ay, Gilbert; willing, and thankful, and proud."

"But the very name of her struck you down! You fell into a deadly faint
when I told you I had spoken my mind to her!"

"I see, my boy," she said; "I see now why you never mentioned her name,
from that time. It was not Martha Deane, but the name of the one you
thought wanted to win her away from you,--your father's name,
Gilbert,--that seemed to put a stop to my life. The last trial was the
hardest of all, but don't you see it was only the bit of darkness that
comes before the daylight?"

While this new happiness brought the coveted sense of thanksgiving to
mother and son, and spread an unexpected warmth and peace over the close
of the fateful day, there was the liveliest excitement in Kennett
Square, over Miss Lavender's intelligence. That lady had been waylaid by
a dozen impatient questioners before she could reach the shelter of Dr.
Deane's roof; and could only purchase release by a hurried statement of
the main facts, in which Alfred Barton's cruelty, and his wife's
wonderful fidelity to her oath, and the justice done to her and Gilbert
by the old man's will, were set forth with an energy that multiplied
itself as the gossip spread.

In the adjoining townships, it was reported and believed, the very next
day, that Alfred Barton had tried to murder his wife and poison his
father--that Mary had saved the latter, and inherited, as her reward,
the entire property.

Once safely housed, Miss Lavender enjoyed another triumph. She related
the whole story, in every particular, to Martha Deane, in the Doctor's
presence, taking especial care not to omit Alfred's words in relation to
his enforced wooing.

"And there's one thing I mustn't forgit, Martha," she declared, at the
close of her narrative. "Gilbert sends word to you that he needs your
true-love more 'n ever, and he's comin' up to see you to-morrow; and
says I to him, The door's open, even accordin' to the Doctor's words;
and so it is, for he's got his true name, and free to come. You're a man
o' your word, Doctor, and nothin' 's been said or done, thank Goodness,
that can't be easy mended!"

What impression this announcement made upon Dr. Deane could not be
guessed by either of the women. He rose, went to the window, looked into
the night for a long time without saying a word, and finally betook
himself to his bed.

The next morning, although there were no dangerous cases on his hands,
he rode away, remarking that he should not be home again until the
evening. Martha knew what this meant, and also what Miss Lavender meant
in hurrying down to Fairthorn's, soon after the Doctor's departure. She
became restless with tender expectation; her cheeks burned, and her
fingers trembled so that she was forced to lay aside her needle-work. It
seemed very long since she had even seen Gilbert; it was a long time (in
the calendar of lovers) since the two had spoken to each other. She
tried to compare the man he had been with the man he now was,--Gilbert
poor, disgraced and in trouble, with Gilbert rich and honorably born;
and it almost seemed as if the latter had impoverished her heart by
taking from it the need of that faithful, passionate sympathy which she
had bestowed upon the former.

The long hour of waiting came to an end. Roger was once more tethered at
the gate, and Gilbert was in the room. It was not danger, this time,
beyond the brink of which they met, but rather a sudden visitation of
security; yet both were deeply and powerfully agitated. Martha was the
first to recover her composure. Withdrawing herself from Gilbert's arms,
she said,--

"It was not right that the tests should be all on my side. Now it is my
turn to try you, Gilbert!"

Even her arch, happy smile did not enlighten him. "How, Martha?" he
asked.

"Since you don't know, you are already tested. But how grave you look!
Have I not yet learned all of this wonderful, wonderful history? Did
Betsy Lavender keep something back?"

"Martha!" he cried, "you shame me out of the words I had meant to say.
But they were doubts of my own position, not of you. Is my new name
better or worse in your ears, than my old one?"

"To me you are only Gilbert," she answered, "as I am Martha to you. What
does it matter whether we write Potter or Barton? Either is good in
itself, and so would any other name be; but Barton means something, as
the world goes, and therefore we will take it. Gilbert, I have put
myself in your place, since I learned the whole truth. I guessed you
would come to me with a strange, uncertain feeling,--not a doubt, but
rather a wonder; and I endeavored to make your new circumstances clear
to my mind. Our duty to your mother is plain; she is a woman beside whom
all other women we know seem weak and insignificant. It is not that
which troubled you, I am sure, when you thought of me. Let me say, then,
that so far as our relation to your father is concerned, I will be
guided entirely by your wishes."

"Martha," he said, "that _is_ my trouble,--or, rather, my
disappointment,--that with my true name I must bring to you and fasten
upon you the whole mean and shameful story! One parent must always be
honored at the expense of the other, and my name still belongs to the
one that is disgraced."

"I foresaw your feeling, Gilbert. You were on the point of making
another test for me; that is not fair. The truth has come too
suddenly,--the waters of your life have been stirred too deeply; you
must wait until they clear. Leave that to Alfred Barton and your mother.
To me, I confess, he seems very weak rather than very bad. I can now
understand the pains which his addresses to me must have cost him. If I
ever saw fear on a man's face, it was on his when he thought I might
take him at his word. But, to a man like you, a mean nature is no better
than a bad one. Perhaps I feel your disappointment as deeply as you can;
yet it is our duty to keep this feeling to ourselves. For your mother's
sake, Gilbert; you must not let the value of her justification be
lessened in her eyes. She deserves all the happiness you and I can give
her, and if she is willing to receive me, some day, as a daughter"--

Gilbert interrupted her words by clasping her in his arms. "Martha!" he
exclaimed, "your heart points out the true way because it is true to the
core! In these things a woman sees clearer than a man; when I am with
you only, I seem to have proper courage and independence--I am twice
myself! Won't you let me claim you--take you--soon? My mother loves you;
she will welcome you as my wife, and will your father still stand
between us?"

Martha smiled. "My father is a man of strong will," she said, "and it is
hard for him to admit that his judgment was wrong. We must give him a
little time,--not urge, not seem to triumph, spare his pride, and trust
to his returning sense of what is right. You might claim reparation,
Gilbert, for his cruel words; I could not forbid you; but after so much
strife let there be peace, if possible."

"It is at least beyond his power," Gilbert replied, "to accuse me of
sordid motives. As I said before, Martha, give up your legacy, if need
be, but come to me!"

"As _I_ said before, Gilbert, the legacy is honestly mine, and I will
come to you with it in my hands."

Then they both began to smile, but it was a conflict of purpose which
drew them nearer together, in both senses,--an emulation of unselfish
love, which was compromised by clasping arms and silent lips.

There was a sudden noise in the back part of the house. A shrill voice
was heard, exclaiming,--"I will--I will! don't hold me!"--the door burst
open, and Sally Fairthorn whirled into the room, with the skirt of her
gown torn loose, on one side, from the body. Behind her followed Miss
Lavender, in a state of mingled amusement and anger.

Sally kissed Martha, then Gilbert, then threw an arm around the neck of
each, crying and laughing hysterically: "O Martha! O Gilbert! you'll be
married first,--I said it,--but Mark and I must be your bridesmaids;
don't laugh, you know what I mean; and Betsy wouldn't have me break in
upon you; but I waited half an hour, and then off, up here, she after
me, and we're both out o' breath! Did ever, ever such a thing happen!"

"You crazy thing!" cried Miss Lavender. "No, such a thing never
happened, and wouldn't ha' happened this time, if I'd ha' been a little
quicker on my legs; but never mind, it serves me right; you two are to
blame, for why need I trouble my head furder about ye? There's cases,
they say, where two's company, and three's overmuch; but you may fix it
for yourselves next time, and welcome; and there's one bit o' wisdom
I've got by it,--foller true-lovyers, and they'll wear your feet off,
and then want you to go on the stumps!"

"We won't relieve you yet, Betsy," said Gilbert; "will we, Martha? The
good work you've done for us isn't finished."

"Isn't finished. Well, you'll gi' me time to make my will, first. How
long d' ye expect me to last, at this rate? Is my bones brass and my
flesh locus'-wood? Am I like a tortle, that goes around the fields a
hundred years?"

"No," Gilbert answered, "but you shall be like an angel, dressed all in
white, with roses in your hair. Sally and Mark, you know, want to be the
first bridesmaids"--

Sally interrupted him with a slap, but it was not very violent, and he
did not even attempt to dodge it.

"Do you hear, Betsy?" said Martha. "It must be as Gilbert says."

"A pretty fool you'd make o' me," Miss Lavender remarked, screwing up
her face to conceal her happy emotion.

Gilbert soon afterwards left for home, but returned towards evening,
determined, before all things, to ascertain his present standing with
Dr. Deane. He did not anticipate that the task had been made easy for
him; but this was really the case. Wherever Dr. Deane had been that day,
whoever he had seen, the current of talk all ran one way. When the first
surprise of the news had been exhausted, and the Doctor had corrected
various monstrous rumors from his own sources of positive knowledge, one
inference was sure to follow,--that now there could be no objection to
his daughter becoming Gilbert Barton's wife. He was sounded, urged,
almost threatened, and finally returned home with the conviction that
any further opposition must result in an immense sacrifice of
popularity.

Still, he was not ready to act upon that conviction, at once. He met
Gilbert with a bland condescension, and when the latter, after the first
greeting, asked,--

"Have I now the right to enter your house?"

The Doctor answered,--

"Certainly. Thee has kept thy word, and I will willingly admit that I
did thee wrong in suspecting thee of unworthy devices. I may say, also,
that so far as I was able to judge, I approved of thy behavior on the
day of thy grandfather's funeral. In all that has happened heretofore, I
have endeavored to act cautiously and prudently; and thee will grant, I
doubt not, that thy family history is so very far out of the common way,
as that no man could be called upon to believe it without the strongest
evidence. Of course, all that I brought forward against thee now falls
to the ground."

"I trust, then," Gilbert said, "that you have no further cause to forbid
my engagement with Martha. My mother has given her consent, and we both
hope for yours."

Dr. Deane appeared to reflect, leaning back in his chair, with his cane
across his knees. "It is a very serious thing," he said, at last,--"very
serious, indeed. Not a subject for hasty decision. Thee offered, if I
remember rightly, to give me time to know thee better; therefore thee
cannot complain if I were now disposed to accept thy offer."

Gilbert fortunately remembered Martha's words, and restrained his
impatience.

"I will readily give you time, Dr. Deane," he replied, "provided you
will give me opportunities. You are free to question all who know me, of
course, and I suppose you have done so. I will not ask you to take the
trouble to come to me, in order that we may become better acquainted,
but only that you will allow me to come to you."

"It would hardly be fair to deny thee that much," said the Doctor.

"I will ask no more now. I never meant, from the first, to question your
interest in Martha's happiness, or your right to advise her. It may be
too soon to expect your consent, but at least you'll hold back your
refusal?"

"Thee's a reasonable young man, Gilbert," the Doctor remarked, after a
pause which was quite unnecessary. "I like that in thee. We are both
agreed, then, that while I shall be glad to see thee in my house, and am
willing to allow to Martha and thee the intercourse proper to a young
man and woman, it is not yet to be taken for granted that I sanction
your desired marriage. Remember me kindly to thy mother, and say, if
thee pleases, that I shall soon call to see her."

Gilbert had scarcely reached home that evening, before Deb. Smith, who
had left the farm-house on the day following the recovery of the money,
suddenly made her appearance. She slipped into the kitchen without
knocking, and crouched down in a corner of the wide chimney-place,
before she spoke. Both mother and son were struck by the singular
mixture of shyness and fear in her manner.

"I heerd all about it, to-day," she presently said, "and I wouldn't ha'
come here, if I'd ha' knowed where else to go to. They're after me, this
time, Sandy's friends, in dead earnest; they'll have my blood, if they
can git it; but you said once't you'd shelter me, Mr. Gilbert!"

"So I will, Deborah!" he exclaimed; "do you doubt my word?"

"No, I don't; but I dunno how't is--you're rich now, and as well-born as
the best of 'em, and Mary's lawful-married and got her lawful name; and
you both seem to be set among the folks that can't feel for a body like
me; not that your hearts is changed, only it comes different to me,
somehow."

"Stay here, Deborah, until you feel sure you're safe," said Mary. "If
Gilbert or I should refuse to protect you, your blood would be upon our
heads. I won't blame you for doubting us; I know how easy it is to lose
faith in others; but if you think I was a friend to you while my name
was disgraced, you must also remember that I knew the truth then as well
as the world knows it now."

"Bless you for sayin' that, Mary! There wasn't much o' my name at any
time; but what little I might ha' had is clean gone--nothin' o' me left
but the strong arm! I'm not a coward, as you know, Mr. Gilbert; I'll
meet any man, face to face, in a fair and open fight. Let 'em come in
broad day, and on the high road!--not lay in wait in bushes and behind
fences, to shoot me down unawares."

They strove to quiet her fears, and little by little she grew composed.
The desperate recklessness of her mood contrasted strangely with her
morbid fear of an ambushed enemy. Gilbert suspected that it might be a
temporary insanity, growing out of her remorse for having betrayed Sandy
Flash. When she had been fed, and had smoked a pipe or two, she seemed
quite to forget it, and was almost her own self when she went up to her
bed in the western room.

The moon, three quarters full, was hanging over the barn, and made a
peaceful, snowy light about the house. She went to the window, opened
it, and breathed the cool air of the April night. The "herring-frogs"
were keeping up an incessant, birdlike chirp down the glen, and nearer
at hand the plunging water of the mill-race made a soothing noise. It
really seemed that the poor creature had found a quiet refuge at last.

Suddenly, something rustled and moved behind the mass of budding lilacs,
at the farther corner of the garden-paling. She leaned forward; the next
moment there was a flash, the crack of a musket rang sharp and loud
through the dell, followed by a whiz and thud at her very ear. A thin
drift of smoke rose above the bushes, and she saw a man's figure
springing to the cover of the nearest apple-tree. In another minute,
Gilbert made his appearance, gun in hand.

"Shoot him, Gilbert!" cried Deb. Smith; "it's Dougherty!"

Whoever it was, the man escaped; but by a singular coincidence, the
Irish ostler disappeared that night from the Unicorn tavern, and was
never again seen in the neighborhood.

The bullet had buried itself in the window-frame, after having passed
within an inch or two of Deb. Smith's head. [Footnote: The hole made by
the bullet still remains in the window-frame of the old farm-house.] To
Gilbert's surprise, all her fear was gone; she was again fierce and
defiant, and boldly came and went, from that night forth, saying that no
bullet was or would be cast, to take her life.

Therein she was right; but it was a dreary life and a miserable death
which awaited her. For twenty-five years she wandered about the
neighborhood, achieving wonders in spinning, reaping and threshing, by
the undiminished force of her arm, though her face grew haggard and her
hair gray; sometimes plunging into wild drinking-bouts with the rough
male companions of her younger days; sometimes telling a new generation,
with weeping and violent self-accusation, the story of her treachery;
but always with the fearful conviction of a yet unfulfilled curse
hanging over her life. Whether it was ever made manifest, no man could
tell; but when she was found lying dead on the floor of her lonely cabin
on the Woodrow farm, with staring, stony eyes, and the lines of
unspeakable horror on her white face, there were those who recalled her
own superstitious forebodings, and believed them.




CHAPTER XXXIII.

HUSBAND AND WIFE.


It may readily be guessed that such extraordinary developments as those
revealed in the preceding chapters produced more than a superficial
impression upon a quiet community like that of Kennett and the adjoining
townships. People secluded from the active movements of the world are
drawn to take the greater interest in their own little family
histories,--a feeling which by-and-by amounts to a partial sense of
ownership, justifying not only any degree of advice or comment, but
sometimes even actual interference.

The Quakers, who formed a majority of the population, and generally
controlled public sentiment in domestic matters, through the purity of
their own domestic life, at once pronounced in favor of Mary Barton. The
fact of her having taken an oath was a slight stumbling-block to some;
but her patience, her fortitude, her submission to what she felt to be
the Divine Will, and the solemn strength which had upborne her on the
last trying day, were qualities which none could better appreciate. The
fresh, warm sympathies of the younger people, already given to Gilbert
and Martha, now also embraced her; far and wide went the wonderful
story, carrying with it a wave of pity and respect for her, of contempt
and denunciation for her husband.

The old Friends and their wives came to visit her, in their stately
chairs; almost daily, for a week or two, the quiet of the farm was
invaded, either by them, or by the few friends who had not forsaken her
in her long disgrace, and were doubly welcome now. She received them all
with the same grave, simple dignity of manner, gratefully accepting
their expressions of sympathy, and quietly turning aside the
inconsiderate questions that would have probed too deeply and painfully.

To an aged Friend,--a preacher of the sect,--who plumply asked her what
course she intended to pursue towards her husband, she replied,--

"I will not trouble my season of thanksgiving. What is right for me to
do will be made manifest when the occasion comes."

This reply was so entirely in the Quaker spirit that the old man was
silenced. Dr. Deane, who was present, looked upon her with admiration.

Whatever conjectures Alfred Barton might have made in advance, of the
consequences which would follow the disclosure of his secret marriage,
they could have borne no resemblance to the reality. It was not in his
nature to imagine the changes which the years had produced in his wife.
He looked forward to wealth, to importance in the community, and
probably supposed that she would only be too glad to share the proud
position with him. There would be a little embarrassment at first, of
course; but his money would soon make everything smooth.

Now, he was utterly defeated, crushed, overwhelmed. The public judgment,
so much the more terrible where there is no escape from it, rolled down
upon him. Avoided or coldly ignored by the staid, respectable farmers,
openly insulted by his swaggering comrades of the fox-hunt and the
bar-room, jeered at and tortured by the poor and idle hangers-on of the
community, who took a malicious pleasure in thus repaying him for his
former haughtiness and their own humility, he found himself a moral
outcast. His situation became intolerable. He no longer dared to show
himself in the village, or upon the highways, but slunk about the house
and farm, cursing himself, his father and the miserable luck of his
life.

When, finally, Giles begged to know how soon his legacy would be paid,
and hinted that he couldn't stay any longer than to get possession of
the money, for, hard as it might be to leave an old home, he must stop
going to the mill, or getting the horses shod, or sitting in the Unicorn
bar-room of a Saturday night, and a man might as well be in jail at
once, and be done with it--when Alfred Barton heard all this, he
deliberated, for a few minutes, whether it would not be a good thing to
cut his own throat.

Either that, or beg for mercy; no other course was left.

That evening he stole up to the village, fearful, at every step, of
being seen and recognized, and knocked timidly at Dr. Deane's door.
Martha and her father were sitting together, when he came into the room,
and they were equally startled at his appearance. His large frame seemed
to have fallen in, his head was bent, and his bushy whiskers had become
quite gray; deep wrinkles seamed his face; his eyes were hollow, and the
corners of his mouth drooped with an expression of intolerable misery.

"I wanted to say a word to Miss Martha, if she'll let me," he said,
looking from one to the other.

"I allowed thee to speak to my daughter once too often," Dr. Deane
sternly replied. "What thee has to say now, must be said in my
presence."

He hesitated a moment, then took a chair and sat down, turning towards
Martha. "It's come to this," he said, "that I must have a little mercy,
or lay hands on my own life. I haven't a word to say for myself; I
deserve it all. I'll do anything that's wanted of me--whatever Mary
says, or people think is her right that she hasn't yet got, if it's mine
to give. You said you wished me well, Miss Martha, even at the time I
acted so shamefully; I remember that, and so I ask you to help me."

She saw that he spoke truth, at last, and all her contempt and disgust
could not keep down the quick sensation of pity which his wretchedness
inspired. But she was unprepared for his appeal, and uncertain how to
answer it.

"What would you have me do?" she asked.

"Go to Mary on my behalf! Ask her to pardon me, if she can, or say what
I can do to earn her pardon--that the people may know it. They won't be
so hard on me, if they know she's done that. Everything depends on her,
and if it's true, as they say, that she's going to sue for a divorce and
take back her own name for herself and Gilbert, and cut loose from me
forever, why, it'll just"--

He paused, and buried his face in his hands.

"I have not heard of that," said Martha.

"Haven't you?" he asked. "But it's too likely to be true."

"Why not go directly to Mary, yourself?"

"I will, Miss Martha, if you'll go with me, and maybe say a kind word
now and then,--that is, if you think it isn't too soon for mercy!"

"It is never too soon to _ask_ for mercy," she said, coming to a sudden
decision. "I will go with you; let it be tomorrow."

"Martha," warned Dr. Deane, "isn't thee a little hasty?"

"Father, I decide nothing. It is in Mary's hands. He thinks my presence
will give him courage, and that I cannot refuse."

The next morning, the people of Kennett Square were again startled out
of their proprieties by the sight of Alfred Barton, pale, agitated, and
avoiding the gaze of every one, waiting at Dr. Deane's gate, and then
riding side by side with Martha down the Wilmington road. An hour
before, she had dispatched Joe Fairthorn with a note to Gilbert,
informing him of the impending visit. Once on the way, she feared lest
she had ventured too far; it might be, as her father had said, too
hasty; and the coming meeting with Gilbert and his mother disquieted her
not a little. It was a silent, anxious ride for both.

When they readied the gate, Gilbert was on hand to receive them. His
face always brightened at the sight of Martha, and his hands lifted her
as tenderly as ever from the saddle. "Have I done right?" she anxiously
whispered.

"It is for mother to say," he whispered back.

Alfred Barton advanced, offering his hand. Gilbert looked upon his
father's haggard, imploring face, a moment; a recollection of his own
disgrace shot into his heart, to soften, not to exasperate; and he
accepted the hand. Then he led the way into the house.

Mary Barton had simply said to her son,--"I felt that he would come,
sooner or later, and that I must give him a hearing--better now,
perhaps, since you and Martha will be with me."

They found her awaiting them, pale and resolute.

Gilbert and Martha moved a little to one side, leaving the husband and
wife facing each other. Alfred Barton was too desperately moved to
shrink from Mary's eyes; he strove to read something in her face, which
might spare him the pain of words; but it was a strange face he looked
upon. Not that of the black-eyed, bright-cheeked girl, with the proud
carriage of her head and the charming scorn of her red lip, who had
mocked, fascinated, and bewildered him. The eyes were there, but they
had sunk into the shade of the brows, and looked upon him with an
impenetrable expression; the cheeks were pale, the mouth firm and rigid,
and out of the beauty which seduced had grown a power to resist and
command.

"Will you shake hands with me, Mary?" he faltered.

She said nothing, but moved her right hand slightly towards him. It lay
in his own a moment, cold and passive.

"Mary!" he cried, falling on his knees at her feet, "I'm a ruined,
wretched man! No one speaks to me but to curse; I've no friend left in
the world; the very farmhand leaves me! I don't know what'll become of
me, unless you feel a little pity--not that I deserve any, but I ask it
of you, in the name of God!"

Martha clung to Gilbert's arm, trembling, and more deeply moved than she
was willing to show. Mary Barton's face was convulsed by some passing
struggle, and when she spoke, her voice was hoarse and broken.

"You know what it is, then," she said, "to be disgraced in the eyes of
the world. If you have suffered so much in these two weeks, you may
guess what I have borne for twenty-five years!"

"I see it now, Mary!" he cried, "as I never saw it before. Try me! Tell
me what to do!"

"The Lord has done it, already; there is nothing left."

He groaned; his head dropped hopelessly upon his breast.

Gilbert felt that Martha's agitation ceased. She quietly released her
hold of his arm, lifted her head, and spoke,--

"Mother, forgive me if I speak when I should hold my peace; I would only
remind you that there is yet one thing left. It is true, as you say; the
Lord has justified you in His own way, and at His own time, and has
revenged the wrong done to you by branding the sin committed towards
Himself. Now He leaves the rest to your own heart. Think that He holds
back and waits for the words that shall declare whether you understand
the spirit in which He deals towards His children!"

"Martha, my dear child!" Mary Barton exclaimed,--what can I do?"

"It is not for me to advise you, mother. You, who put my impatient pride
to shame, and make my love for Gilbert seem selfish by contrast with
your long self-sacrifice! What right have I, who have done nothing, to
speak to you, who have done so much that we never can reckon it? But,
remember that in the Lord's government of the world pardon follows
repentance, and it is not for us to exact like for like, to the
uttermost farthing!"

Mary Barton sank into a chair, covered her face with her hands, and wept
aloud.

There were tears in Martha's eyes; her voice trembled, and her words
came with a softness and tenderness that soothed while they pierced:

"Mother, I am a woman like yourself; and, as a woman, I feel the
terrible wrong that has been done to you. It may be as hard for you now
to forget, as then to bear; but it is certainly greater and nobler to
forgive than to await justice! Because I reverence you as a strong and
pure and great-hearted woman--because I want to see the last and best
and sweetest grace of our sex added to your name--and lastly, for
Gilbert's sake, who can feel nothing but pain in seeing his father
execrated and shunned--I ask your forgiveness for your husband!"

"Mary!" Alfred Barton cried, lifting up his head in a last appeal,
"Mary, this much, at least! Don't go to the courts for a divorce! Don't
get back your own name for yourself and Gilbert! Keep mine, and make it
more respectable for me! And I won't ask you to pardon me, for I see you
can't!"

"It is all clear to me, at last!" said Mary Barton. "I thank you,
Martha, my child, for putting me in the right path. Alfred, don't kneel
to me; if the Lord can pardon, who am I that I should be unforgiving? I
fear me I was nigh to forfeit His mercy. Gilbert, yours was half the
shame; yours is half the wrong; can you join me in pardoning your father
and my husband?"

Gilbert was powerfully moved by the conflict of equally balanced
emotions, and but for the indication which Martha had given, he might
not at once have been able to decide. But it seemed now that his course
was also clear. He said,--

"Mother, since you have asked the question, I know how it should be
answered. If you forgive your husband, I forgive my--my father."

He stepped forward, seized Alfred Barton gently by the shoulder, and
raised him to his feet Mary Barton then took her husband's hand in hers,
and said, in a solemn voice,--

"I forgive you, Alfred, and will try to forget I know not what you may
have heard said, but I never meant to go before the court for a divorce.
Your name is a part of my right, a part of Gilbert's--our son's--right;
it is true that you have debased the name, but we will keep it and make
it honorable! We will not do that to the name of Barton which you have
done to the name of Potter!"

It was very evident that though she had forgiven, she had not yet
forgotten. The settled endurance of years could not be unlearned in a
moment. Alfred Barton felt that her forgiveness implied no returning
tenderness, not even an increase of respect; but it was more than he had
dared to hope, and he felt humbly grateful. He saw that a consideration
for Gilbert's position had been the chief element to which he owed his
wife's relenting mood, and this knowledge was perhaps his greatest
encouragement.

"Mary," he said, "you are kinder than I deserve. I wish I could make you
and Gilbert understand all that I have felt. Don't think my place was
easy; it wasn't. It was a hell of another kind. I have been punished in
my way, and will be now to the end o' my life, while you two will be
looked up to, and respected beyond any in the neighborhood; and if I'm
not treated like a dog, it'll only be for your sakes! Will you let me
say to the people that you have pardoned me? Will you say it
yourselves?"

Martha, and perhaps Gilbert also, felt that it was the reflected image
of Alfred Barton's meanness, as it came back to him in the treatment he
had experienced, rather than his own internal consciousness of it, which
occasioned his misery. But his words were true thus far; his life was
branded by it, and the pardon of those he had wronged could not make
that life more than tolerable.

"Why not?" said Gilbert, replying to him. "There has been enough of
secrets. I am not ashamed of forgiveness--my shame is, that forgiveness
is necessary."

Alfred Barton looked from mother to son with a singular, wistful
expression. He seemed uncertain whether to speak or how to select his
words. His vain, arrogant spirit was completely broken, but no finer
moral instinct came in its place to guide him; his impulses were still
coarse, and took, from habit, the selfish color of his nature. There are
some persons whom even humiliation clothes with a certain dignity; but
he was not one of them. There are others whose tact, in such
emergencies, assumes the features of principle, and sets up a feeble
claim to respect; but this quality is a result of culture, which he did
not possess. He simply saw what would relieve him from the insupportable
load of obloquy under which he groaned, and awkwardly hazarded the pity
he had excited, in asking for it.

"Mary," he stammered, "I--I hardly know how to say the words, but you'll
understand me; I want to make good to you all the wrong I did, and there
seems no way but this,--if you'll let me care for you, slave for you,
anything you please; you shall have your own say in house and farm;
Ann'll give up everything to you. She always liked you, she says, and
she's lonely since th' old man died and nobody comes near us--not just
at once, I mean, but after awhile, when you've had time to think of it,
and Gilbert's married. You're independent in your own right, I know, and
needn't do it; but, see! it'd give me a chance, and maybe Gilbert
wouldn't feel quite so hard towards me, and"--

He stopped, chilled by the increasing coldness of his wife's face. She
did not immediately reply; to Martha's eye she seemed to be battling
with some proud, vindictive instinct. But she spoke at last, and calmly:

"Alfred, you should not have gone so far. I have pardoned you, and that
means more than the words. It means that I must try to overcome the
bitterness of my recollections, that I must curb the tongues of others
when they are raised against you, must greet you when we meet, and in
all proper ways show the truth of my forgiveness to the world. Anger and
reproach may be taken from the heart, and yet love be as far off as
ever. If anything ever could lead me back to you it would not be love,
but duty to my son, and his desire; but I cannot see the duty now. I may
never see it. Do not propose this thing again. I will only say, if it be
any comfort to you, that if you try to show your repentance as I my
pardon, try to clean your name from the stain you have cast upon it, my
respect shall keep pace with that of your neighbors, and I shall in this
way, and in no other, be drawn nearer to you!"

"Gilbert," said Alfred Barton, "I never knew your mother before to-day.
What she says gives me some hope, and yet it makes me afraid. I'll try
to bring her nearer, I will, indeed; but I've been governed so long by
th' old man that I don't seem to have any right strength o' my own. I
must have some help, and you're the only one I can ask it of; will you
come and see me sometimes? I've been so proud of you, all to myself, my
boy! and if I thought you could once call me 'father' before I die"--

Gilbert was not proof against these words and the honest tears by which
they were accompanied. Many shy hesitating tokens of affection in his
former intercourse with Alfred Barton, suddenly recurred to his mind,
with their true interpretation. His load had been light, compared to his
mother's; he had only learned the true wrong in the hour of reparation;
and moreover, in assuming his father's name he became sensitive to the
prominence of its shame.

"Father," he answered, "if you have forfeited a son's obedience, you
have still a man's claim to be helped. Mother is right; it is in your
power to come nearer to us. She must stand aside and wait; but I can
cross the line which separates you, and from this time on I shall never
cross it to remind you of what is past and pardoned, but to help you,
and all of us, to forget it!"

Martha laid her hand upon Gilbert's shoulder, leaned up and kissed him
upon the cheek.

"Rest here!" she said. "Let a good word close the subject! Gilbert, take
your father out and show him your farm. Mother, it is near dinner-time;
I will help you set the table. After dinner, Mr. Barton, you and I will
ride home together."

Her words were obeyed; each one felt that no more should be said at that
time. Gilbert showed the barn, the stables, the cattle in the meadow,
and the fields rejoicing in the soft May weather; Martha busied herself
in kitchen and cellar, filling up the pauses of her labor with cheerful
talk; and when the four met at the table, so much of the constraint in
their relation to each other had been conquered, that a stranger would
never have dreamed of the gulf which had separated them a few hours
before. Martha shrewdly judged that when Alfred Barton had eaten at his
wife's table, they would both meet more easily in the future. She did
not expect that the breach could ever be quite filled; but she wished,
for Gilbert's sake, to make it as narrow as possible.

After dinner, while the horses were being saddled, the lovers walked
down the garden-path, between the borders of blue iris and
mountain-pink.

"Gilbert," said Martha, "are you satisfied with what has happened?"

"Yes," he answered, "but it has shown to me that something more must be
done."

"What?"

"Martha, are these the only two who should be brought nearer?"

She looked at him with a puzzled face. There was a laughing light in his
eyes, which brought a new lustre to here, and a delicate blush to her
fair cheeks.

"Is it not too soon for me to come?" she whispered.

"You have come," he answered; "you were in your place; and it will be
empty--the house will be lonely, the farm without its mistress--until
you return to us!"




CHAPTER XXXIV.

THE WEDDING.


The neighborhood had decreed it There was but one just, proper, and
satisfactory conclusion to all these events. The decision of Kennett was
unanimous that its story should be speedily completed. New-Garden,
Marlborough, and Pennsbury, so far as heard from, gave their hearty
consent; and the people would have been seriously disappointed--the tide
of sympathy might even have been checked--had not Gilbert Barton and
Martha Deane prepared to fulfil the parts assigned to them.

Dr. Deane, of course, floated with the current. He was too shrewd to
stand forth as a conspicuous obstacle to the consummation of the popular
sense of justice. He gave, at once, his full consent to the nuptials,
and took the necessary steps, in advance, for the transfer of his
daughter's fortune into her own hands. In short, as Miss Lavender
observed, there was an end of snarls. The lives of the lovers were taken
up, as by a skilful hand, and evenly reeled together.

Gilbert now might have satisfied his ambition (and the people, under the
peculiar circumstances of the case, would have sanctioned it) by buying
the finest farm in the neighborhood; but Martha had said,--

"No other farm can be so much _yours_, and none so welcome a home to me.
Let us be satisfied with it, at least for the first years."

And therein she spoke wisely.

It was now the middle of May, and the land was clothed in tender green,
and filled with the sweet breath of sap and bud and blossom. The vivid
emerald of the willow-trees, the blush of orchards, and the cones of
snowy bloom along the wood-sides, shone through and illumined even the
days of rain. The Month of Marriage wooed them in every sunny morning,
in every twilight fading under the torch of the lovers' star.

In spite of Miss Lavender's outcries, and Martha's grave doubts, a
fortnight's delay was all that Gilbert would allow. He would have
dispensed with bridal costumes and merrymakings,--so little do men
understand of these matters; but he was hooted down, overruled, ignored,
and made to feel his proper insignificance. Martha almost disappeared
from his sight during the interval. She was sitting upstairs in a
confusion of lutestring, whalebone, silk, and cambric; and when she came
down to him for a moment, the kiss had scarcely left her lips before she
began to speak of the make of his new coat, and the fashion of the
articles he was still expected to furnish.

If he visited Fairthorn's, it was even worse. The sight of him threw
Sally into such a flutter that she sewed the right side of one breadth
to the wrong side of another, attempted to clear-starch a woollen
stocking, or even, on one occasion, put a fowl into the pot, unpicked
and undressed. It was known all over the country that Sally and Mark
Deane were to be bridesmaid and groomsman, and they both determined to
make a brave appearance.

But there was another feature of the coming nuptials which the people
did not know. Gilbert and Martha had determined that Miss Betsy Lavender
should be second bridesmaid, and Martha had sent to Wilmington for a
purple silk, and a stomacher of the finest cambric, in which to array
her. A groomsman of her age was not so easy to find; but young Pratt,
who had stood so faithfully by Gilbert during the chase of Sandy Flash,
merrily avowed his willingness to play the part; and so it was settled
without Miss Lavender's knowledge.

The appointed morning came, bringing a fair sky, mottled with gentle,
lingering clouds, and a light wind from the west. The wedding company
were to meet at Kennett Square, and then ride to Squire Sinclair's,
where the ceremony would be performed by that magistrate; and before ten
o'clock, the hour appointed for starting, all the surrounding
neighborhood poured into the village. The hitching-bar in front of the
Unicorn, and every post of fence or garden-paling, was occupied by the
tethered horses. The wedding-guests, comprising some ten or fifteen
persons, assembled at Dr. Deane's, and each couple, as they arrived,
produced an increasing excitement among the spectators.

The fact that Alfred Barton had been formally pardoned by his wife and
son, did not lessen the feeling with which he was regarded, but it
produced a certain amount of forbearance. The people were curious to
know whether he had been bidden to the wedding, and the conviction was
general that he had no business to be there. The truth is, it had been
left free to him whether to come or not, and he had very prudently
chosen to be absent.

Dr. Deane had set up a "chair," which was to be used for the first time
on this occasion. It was a ponderous machine, with drab body and wheels,
and curtains of drab camlet looped up under its stately canopy. When it
appeared at the gate, the Doctor came forth, spotless in attire, bland,
smiling, a figure of sober gloss and agreeable odors. He led Mary Barton
by the hand; and her steel-colored silk and white crape shawl so well
harmonized with his appearance, that the two might have been taken for
man and wife. Her face was calm, serene, and full of quiet gratitude.
They took their places in the chair, the lines were handed to the
Doctor, and he drove away, nodding right and left to the crowd.

Now the horses were brought up in pairs, and the younger guests began to
mount. The people gathered closer and closer; and when Sam appeared,
leading the well-known and beloved Roger, there was a murmur which, in
a more demonstrative community, would have been a cheer. Somebody had
arranged a wreath of lilac and snowy viburnum, and fastened it around
Roger's forehead; and he seemed to wear it consciously and proudly. Many
a hand was stretched forth to pat and stroke the noble animal, and
everybody smiled when he laid his head caressingly over the neck of
Martha's gray.

Finally, only six horses remained unmounted; then there seemed to be a
little delay in-doors. It was explained when young Pratt appeared, bold
and bright, leading the reluctant Miss Lavender, rustling in purple
splendor, and blushing--actually blushing--as she encountered the eyes
of the crowd. The latter were delighted. There was no irony in the voice
that cried,--"Hurrah for Betsy Lavender!" and the cheer that followed
was the expression of a downright, hearty good will. She looked around
from her saddle, blushing, smiling, and on the point of bursting into
tears; and it was a godsend, as she afterwards remarked, that Mark Deane
and Sally Fairthorn appeared at that moment.

Mark, in sky-blue coat and breeches, suggested, with his rosy face and
yellow locks, a son of the morning; while Sally's white muslin and
cherry-colored scarf heightened the rich beauty of her dark hair and
eyes, and her full, pouting lips. They were a buxom pair, and both were
too happy in each other and in the occasion, to conceal the least
expression of it.

There now only remained our hero and heroine, who immediately followed.
No cheer greeted them, for the wonderful chain of circumstances which
had finally brought them together, made the joy of the day solemn, and
the sympathy of the people reverential. Mark and Sally represented the
delight of betrothal; these two the earnest sanctity of wedlock.

Gilbert was plainly yet richly dressed in a bottle-green coat, with
white waistcoat and breeches; his ruffles, gloves, hat, and boots were
irreproachable. So manly looking a bridegroom had not been seen in
Kennett for many a day. Martha's dress of heavy pearl-gray satin was
looped up over a petticoat of white dimity, and she wore a short cloak
of white crape. Her hat, of the latest style, was adorned with a bunch
of roses and a white, drooping feather. In the saddle, she was charming;
and as the bridal pair slowly rode forward, followed by their attendants
in the proper order, a murmur of admiration, in which there was no envy
and no ill-natured qualification, went after them.

A soft glitter of sunshine, crossed by the shadows of slow-moving
clouds, lay upon the landscape. Westward, the valley opened in quiet
beauty, the wooded hills on either side sheltering, like protecting
arms, the white farmhouses, the gardens, and rosy orchards scattered
along its floor. On their left, the tall grove rang with the music of
birds, and was gay, through all its light-green depths, with the pink
blossoms of the wild azalea. The hedges, on either side, were purple
with young sprays, and a bright, breathing mass of sweet-brier and wild
grape crowned the overhanging banks, between which the road ascended the
hill beyond.

At first the company were silent; but the enlivening motion of the
horses, the joy of the coming summer, the affectionate sympathy of
Nature, soon disposed them to a lighter mood. At Hallowell's, the men
left their hoes in the corn-field, and the women their household
duties, to greet them by the roadside. Mark looked up at the new barn,
and exclaimed,--

"Not quite a year ago! Do you mind it, Gilbert?"

Martha pointed to the green turf in front of the house, and said with an
arch voice,--

"Gilbert, do you remember the question you put to me, that evening?"

And finally Sally burst out, in mock indignation,--

"Gilbert, there's where you snapped me up, because I wanted you to dance
with Martha; what do you think of yourself now?"

"You all forget," he answered, "that you are speaking of somebody else."

"How? somebody else?" asked Sally.

"Yes; I mean Gilbert Potter."

"Not a bad turn-off," remarked Miss Lavender. "He's too much for you.
But I'm glad, anyhow, you've got your tongues, for it was too much like
a buryin' before, and me fixed up like King Solomon, what for, I'd like
to know? and the day made o' purpose for a weddin', and true-love all
right for once't--I'd like just to holler and sing and make merry to my
heart's content, with a nice young man alongside o' me, too, a thing
that don't often happen!"

They were heartily, but not boisterously, merry after this; but as they
reached the New-Garden road, there came a wild yell from the rear, and
the noise of galloping hoofs. Before the first shock of surprise had
subsided, the Fairthorn gray mare thundered up, with Joe and Jake upon
her back, the scarlet lining of their blue cloaks flying to the wind,
their breeches covered with white hair from the mare's hide, and their
faces wild with delight. They yelled again as they drew rein at the head
of the procession.

"Why, what upon earth"--began Sally; but Joe saved her the necessity of
a question.

"Daddy said we shouldn't go!" he cried. "But we _would_,--we got Bonnie
out o' the field, and put off! Cousin Martha, you'll let us go along and
see you get married; won't you, now? Maybe we'll never have another
chance!"

This incident produced great amusement. The boys received the permission
they coveted, but were ordered to the rear Mark reminding them that as
he was soon to be their uncle, they must learn, betimes, to give heed to
his authority.

"Be quiet, Mark!" exclaimed Sally, with a gentle slap.

"Well, I don't begrudge it to 'em," said Miss Lavender. "It's somethin'
for 'em to remember when they're men-grown; and they belong to the
fam'ly, which I don't; but never mind, all the same, no more do you, Mr.
Pratt; and I wish I was younger, to do credit to you!"

Merrily trotted the horses along the bit of level upland; and then, as
the land began to fall towards the western branch of Redley Creek, they
saw the Squire's house on a green knoll to the north, and Dr. Deane's
new chair already resting in the shade of the gigantic sycamore at the
door. The lane-gates were open, the Squire's parlor was arranged for
their reception; and after the ladies had put themselves to rights, in
the upper rooms, the company gathered together for the ceremony.

Sunshine, and hum of bees, and murmur of winds, and scent of flowers,
came in through the open windows, and the bridal pair seemed to stand in
the heart of the perfect spring-time. Yet tears were shed by all the
women except the bride; and Sally Fairthorn was so absorbed by the rush
of her emotions, that she came within an ace of saying "I will!" when
the Squire put the question to Martha. The ceremony was brief and plain,
but the previous history of the parties made it very impressive. When
they had been pronounced man and wife, and the certificate of marriage
had been duly signed and witnessed by all present, Mary Barton stepped
forward and kissed her son and daughter with a solemn tenderness. Then
the pent-up feelings of all the others broke loose, and the amount of
embracing which followed was something quite unusual for Kennett. Betsy
Lavender was not cheated out of her due share; on the contrary, it was
ever afterwards reported that she received more salutes than even the
bride. She was kissed by Gilbert, by Mark, by her young partner, by Dr.
Deane, and lastly by the jolly Squire himself,--to say nothing of the
feminine kisses, which, indeed, being very imperfect gifts, hardly
deserve to be recorded.

"Well!" she exclaimed, pushing her ruffled hair behind her ears, and
smoothing down her purple skirt, "to think o' my bein' kissed by so many
men, in my old days!--but why not?--it may be my last chance, as Joe
Fairthorn says, and laugh if you please, I've got the best of it; and I
don't belie my natur', for twistin' your head away and screechin' is
only make-believe, and the more some screeches the more they want to be
kissed; but fair and square, say I,--if you want it take it, and that's
just what I've done!"

There was a fresh rush for Miss Lavender after this, and she stood her
ground with commendable patience, until Mark ventured to fold her in a
good-natured hug, when she pushed him away, saying,--

"For the Lord's sake, don't spile my new things! There--go 'way, now!
I've had enough to last me ten year!"

Dr. Deane soon set out with Mary Barton, in the chair, and the rest of
the company mounted their horses, to ride back to Kennett Square by the
other road, past the quarries and across Tuffkenamon.

As they halted in the broad, shallow bed of the creek, letting their
horses drink from the sparkling water, while the wind rollicked among
the meadow bloom of golden saxifrage and scarlet painted-cup and blue
spiderwort before them, the only accident of the day occurred; but it
was not of a character to disturb their joyous mood.

The old Fairthorn mare stretched her neck to its utmost length before
she bent it to drink, obliging Joe to lean forwards over her shoulder,
to retain his hold of the short rein. Jake, holding on to Joe, leaned
with him, and they waited in this painful posture till the mare slowly
filled herself from the stream. Finally she seemed to be satisfied; she
paused, snorted, and then, with wide nostrils, drank an equal amount of
air. Her old sides swelled; the saddle-girth, broken in two places long
before, and mended with tow-strings, suddenly parted, and Joe, Jake,
saddle and all, tumbled down her neck into the water. They scrambled out
in a lamentable plight, soused and dripping, amid the endless laughter
of the company, and were glad to keep to the rear for the remainder of
the ride.

In Dr. Deane's house, meanwhile, there were great preparations for the
wedding-dinner. A cook had been brought from Wilmington, at an
unheard-of expense, and the village was filled with rumors of the
marvellous dishes she was to produce. There were pippins encased in
orange-peel and baked; a roasted peacock, with tail spread; a stuffed
rock-fish; a whole ham enveloped in dough, like a loaf of bread, and set
in the oven; and a wilderness of the richest and rarest pies, tarts, and
custards.

Whether all these rumors were justified by the dinner, we will not
undertake to say; it is certain that the meal, which was spread in the
large sitting-room, was most bountiful. No one was then shocked by the
decanters of Port and Canary wine upon the sideboard, or refused to
partake of the glasses of foamy egg-nog offered to them from time to
time, through the afternoon. The bride-cake was considered a miracle of
art, and the fact that Martha divided it with a steady hand, making the
neatest and cleanest of cuts, was considered a good omen for her married
life. Bits of the cake were afterwards in great demand throughout the
neighborhood, not so much to eat, as to dream upon.

The afternoon passed away rapidly, with mirth and noise, in the
adjoining parlor. Sally Fairthorn found a peculiar pleasure in calling
her friend "Martha Barton!" whereupon Mark said,--

"Wait a bit, Martha, and you can pay her back. Daddy Fairthorn promised
this morning to give me a buildin' lot off the field back o' the corner,
and just as soon as Rudd's house is up, I'm goin' to work at mine."

"Mark, do hush!" Sally exclaimed, reddening, "and before everybody!"

Miss Lavender sat in the midst, stately, purple, and so transformed that
she professed she no longer knew her own self. She was, nevertheless,
the life of the company; the sense of what she had done to bring on the
marriage was a continual source of inspiration. Therefore, when songs
were proposed and sung, and Mark finally called upon her, uproariously
seconded by all the rest, she was moved, for the last time in her life,
to comply.

"I dunno what you mean, expectin' such a thing o' me," she said. "Tears
to me I'm fool enough already, settin' here in purple and fine linen,
like the Queen o' Rome,--not that I don't like singin', but the
contrary, quite the reverse; but with me it'd be a squawk and nothin'
else; and fine feathers may make fine birds for what I care, more like a
poll-parrot than a nightingale, and they say you must stick thorns into
'em to make 'em sing; but I guess it'll be t' other way, and my
singin'll stick thorns into you!"

They would take no denial; she could and must sing them a song. She held
out until Martha said, "for my wedding-day, Betsy!" and Gilbert added,
"and mine, too." Then she declared, "Well, if I must, I s'pose I must
But as for weddin'-songs, such as I've heerd in my younger days, I
dunno one of 'em, and my head's pretty much cleared o' such things,
savin' and exceptin' one that might be a sort o' warnin' for Mark Deane,
who knows?--not that there's sea-farin' men about these parts; but never
mind, all the same; if you don't like it, Mark, you've brung it onto
yourself!"

Thereupon, after shaking herself, gravely composing her face, and
clearing her throat, she began, in a high, shrill, piercing voice,
rocking her head to the peculiar lilt of the words, and interpolating
short explanatory remarks, to sing--

                 THE BALLAD OF THE HOUSE-CARPENTER.

           "'Well-met, well-met, my own true-love!'

"_She_ says,--

              "'Well-met, well-met, cried _he_;
             For't is I have returned from the salt, salt sea,
               And it's all for the love of thee!'

           "'It's I might ha' married a king's daughter fair,'

"_He_ goes on sayin',--

              "'And fain would she ha' married me,
             But it's I have refused those crowns of gold,
               And it's all for the love of thee!'

"Then _she_,--

           "'If you might ha' married a king's daughter fair,'
               I think you are for to blame;
             For it's I have married a house-carpentr,
               And I think he's a fine young man!'

"So look out, Mark! and remember, all o' you, that they're
talkin' turn about; and he begins--

           "'If you'll forsake your house-carpentr
               And go along with me,
             I'll take you to where the grass grows green
               On the banks of the sweet Wil-lee!'

           "'If I forsake my house-carpentr.
               And go along with thee,
             It's what have you got for to maintain me upon,
               And to keep me from slave-ree?'

           "'It's I have sixteen ships at sea,
               All sailing for dry land,
             And four-and-twenty sailors all on board
               Shall be at your command!'

            "She then took up her lovely little babe,
               And she gave it kisses three;
            'Lie still, lie still, my lovely little babe,
               And keep thy father compa-nee!'

             "She dressed herself in rich array,
               And she walked in high degree,
             And the four-and-twenty sailors took 'em on board.
               And they sailed for the open sea!

            "They had not been at sea two weeks,
               And I'm sure it was not three,
             Before this maid she began for to weep,
               And she wept most bitter-lee.

           "'It's do you weep for your gold?' cries he;
              'Or do you weep for your store,
             Or do you weep for your house-carpenter
               You never shall see any more?'

           "'I do not weep for my gold,' cries she,
              'Nor I do not weep for my store,
             But it's I do weep for my lovely little babe,
               I never shall see any more!'

            "They had not been at sea three weeks,
               And I'm sure it was not four,
             When the vessel it did spring a leak,
               And it sank to rise no more!"

"Now, Mark, here comes the Moral:

            "Oh, cruel be ye, sea-farin' men,
               Oh, cruel be your lives,--
             A-robbing of the house-carpenters,
               And a-taking of their wives!"

The shouts and laughter which greeted the conclusion of Miss Lavender's
song brought Dr. Deane into the room. He was a little alarmed lest his
standing in the Society might be damaged by so much and such
unrestrained merriment under his roof. Still he had scarcely the courage
to reprimand the bright, joyous faces before him; he only smiled, shook
his head, and turned to leave.

"I'm a-goin', too," said Miss Lavender, rising. "The sun's not an hour
high, and the Doctor, or somebody, must take Mary Barton home; and it's
about time the rest o' you was makin' ready; though they've gone on with
the supper, there's enough to do when you get there!"

The chair rolled away again, and the bridal party remounted their horses
in the warm, level light of the sinking sun. They were all in their
saddles except Gilbert and Martha.

"Go on!" he cried, in answer to their calls; "we will follow."

"It won't be half a home-comin', without you're along," said Mark; "but
I see you want it so. Come on, boys and girls!"

Gilbert returned to the house and met Martha, descending the stairs in
her plain riding-dress. She descended into his open arms, and rested
there, silent, peaceful, filled with happy rest.

"My wife at last, and forever!" he whispered.

They mounted and rode out of the village. The fields were already
beginning to grow gray under the rosy amber of the western sky. The
breeze had died away, but the odors it had winnowed from orchard and
meadow still hung in the air. Faint cheeps and chirps of nestling life
came from the hedges and grassy nooks of bank and thicket, but they
deepened, not disturbed, the delicious repose settling upon the land.
Husband and wife rode slowly, and their friendly horses pressed nearer
to each other, and there was none to see how their eyes grew deeper and
darker with perfect tenderness, their lips more sweetly soft and warm,
with the unspoken, because unspeakable, fortune of love. In the breath
of that happy twilight all the pangs of the Past melted away; disgrace,
danger, poverty, trial, were behind them; and before them, nestling yet
unseen in the green dell which divided the glimmering landscape, lay the
peace, the shelter, the life-long blessing of Home.








Originally scanned at sacred-texts.com by John B. Hare,
this eBook was produced by Chetan Jain at BharatLiterature.





The iksh-Patr of the Svmi-Nrya.na Sect





JOURNAL

OF

THE ROYAL ASIATIC SOCIETY.



[New Series, Volume XIV]

[London, Trbner and Company]

[1882]


{Scanned and edited by Christopher M. Weimer, May 2002.
Circumflexes represent macrons in this file, and  represents c
with an acute marking.  Also, the name Brahma (not Param Brahma)
is spelled with a breve over the final a, which is not
represented.}



ART. XXIV.--__Sansk.rit Text of the iksh-Patr of the Svmi-
Nrya.na Sect__.  Edited by Professor Monier Williams, C.I.E.,
D.C.L.


[THE text of the iksh-Patr of the modern Vaish.nava Sect,
called Svmi-Nrya.na, was lithographed in Samvat 1928 (A.D.
1872) by order of the Heads of the Sect.  It has a Gujart
Commentary by Nitynanda-muni.  So far as I know, this is the
only version of the text that has yet appeared.  It was given to
me by the Wartl Mahrja on the occasion of my first visit to
Wartl in 1875.  It is full of mistakes, and in preparing the
following edition of the text I have taken as my guide the far
more accurate manuscript and Sansk.rit commentary written by
Pa.n.dit atnanda-muni, and given to me by the Mahrja on the
same occasion.]



TRANSLATION OF THE FOREGOING IKSH-PATR.

BY PROFESSOR MONIER WILLIAMS.


[In making the following translation I have been careful to study
the Sansk.rit commentary called Artha-dpik, written for me in
clear beautiful characters by Pa.n.dit atnanda-muni (one of the
disciples of Svmi-Nrya.na), by order of the Wartl Mahrja,
after one of the formal visits to the Wartl Temple, which were
kindly arranged for me by Mr. Frederick Sheppard, C.S., late
Collector of Kaira, and now Commissioner.  The translation is the
first ever made by any European scholar, though it is right I
should mention that I have consulted a fairly accurate version
(not always perfect either in its renderings or its English)
written by She.th Bhogill Prnjvands, of the Bombay Education
Society's Institution, Ahmedabad, and given in Mr. H. C. Briggs'
work, "The Cities of Gujarsh.tra."  I have also received
assistance from my friend Pa.n.dit Shymaj K.rish.na-varm, of
Balliol College, Oxford.]


1.  I meditate in my heart on that K.rish.na on whose left side
is seated Rdh, on whose breast reclines r (Lakshm), and who
enjoyed sport (with them) in V.rindvana.

2.  I, Sahajnanda.h Svm (afterwards called Svm-Nrya.na),
living at V.rittlaya, write this Letter of instructions (or Book
of directions) to all my followers scattered throughout various
countries.

3.  Let the two youths named Ayodhy-prasda and Raghu-vra, the
sons of my two brothers, Rma-pratpa and Ih-rma, who were
the children of Dharma (or Hari-prasda);

4.  And let those Naish.thika Brahmars (that is to say, those
Brahmans who continue Brahma-rs or celibates all their lives),
the chief among whom is Mukundnanda, and those G.rihasthas
(householders), such as Mayrma-Bha.t.ta, and other of my
followers;

5.  And let those women, whether wives or widows, who have become
my disciples, and the whole number of holy men (Sdhus), such as
Muktnanda and others;

6.  Let all these (persons) constantly give heed to my prayers
for their perpetual continuance in their own proper duties--(my
prayers) offered up with repetition of the name K.rish.na
(Nrya.na), and in accordance with the sacred scriptures.
(Literally--Let my benedictory words which keep them in their own
duties be always read by all these persons accompanied by
repetition of the name of K.rish.na, and approved by the
stras.)

7.  Let this Letter of directions, which has important objects
(to be hereafter enumerated), and which promotes the welfare of
all living beings, be studied with perfect concentration of mind
by all these (persons).

8.  Those (virtuous) persons who conform to the good usages
enjoined by the sacred stras will always enjoy great happiness
both in this world and in that which is to come.

9.  But those evil-minded persons who wilfully transgress such
(good usages) will certainly suffer great misery in this world as
well as in the next.

10.  Therefore let all of you who are my disciples always remain
careful and well-contented in the observance of this (Book of
directions).

11.  Let no followers of mine ever intentionally kill any living
thing whatever--not even a louse, flea, or the most minute
insect.

12.  The killing of any animal such as a goat, etc., for the
purpose of sacrificing to the Gods and Pit.ris, must not be
practised; because it is declared, that abstinence from injury to
others is the highest of all duties.

13.  The killing of any human being in any way, at any place, for
any object, (even) for the sake of acquiring a wife, wealth, or
political supremacy, is wholly prohibited.

14.  Suicide at a sacred place of pilgrimage, or from passion,
either by hanging, or by poison in consequence of the commission
of a criminal act [Footnote: A father sometimes kills himself
because a criminal act has been committed by a member of his
family], is prohibited.

15.  Flesh meat should never be eaten, not even that which
remains of a sacrifice.  Spirituous liquor of any kind should
never be drunk, not even that presented to the Gods.

16.  If an unlawful act has been committed anywhere by one's self
or any other person, no member either of one's own or any other
person's body should be on that account mutilated with a weapon
of any kind through anger.

17.  All theft is prohibited, even that which is committed under
pretence of contributing to religious purposes; nor must such
things as wood and flowers that have an owner ever be abstracted
without his permission.

18.  Let no male or female followers of mine ever commit
adultery.  Let them shun gaming and similar vices, and abstain
from all intoxicating liquors and substances such as hemp, etc.

19.  Nowhere--except in Jaganntha-pur--let a man accept water
or food which has been cooked by one from whom food is not to be
taken (__i.e.__ from a person of low caste), even though that
food may have formed the Prasda [Footnote: By Prasda is meant
the remains of food presented as an offering to a god.  Here the
word must be either prasd or prasdi, from prasdin] of
K.rish.na (that is, the remains of what has been presented as an
offering to K.rish.na).

20.  No calumnious language must be used against any one for the
sake of promoting one's own interests.  No abusive words must
ever be spoken.

21.  Never use nor listen to profane language against the Gods,
sacred places, Brhmans, holy women, Sdhus and the Vedas.

22.  The remains of the offering to that Goddess to whom flesh
and liquor are offered and in whose presence the killing of
goats, etc., takes place, are not to be eaten.

23.  If you happen on the road to see before you a temple of iva
or any other God, having first made a salutation, respectfully
enter inside to view the image.

24.  Let no one abandon the duties of the class and order to
which he belongs, nor practise the religious duties of others;
nor have anything to do with those propounded by heretical
teachers.

25.  The narrative of the exploits of the Lord K.rish.na should
not be heard from the mouth of any person whose words lead one to
fall from his worship or from duty.

26.  Never tell a truth which is likely to cause serious injury
to yourself or to any one else.  Avoid associating with
ungrateful persons.  Never accept a bribe from any person
whatever.

27.  Never associate with thieves, wicked or vicious persons,
heretics, people who are in love, and people who are engaged in
dishonest occupations.

28.  Never associate with those who, through eager desire to
obtain a wife, wealth or some sensual gratification, practise
sinful acts under pretext of devotion to religion or to sacred
knowledge.

29.  Never pay attention to those books in which K.rish.na and
his incarnations are impugned by controversial arguments.

30.  No unstrained water or milk should be drunk, nor should
water containing minute insects be used for such purposes as
bathing, etc.

31.  Never take medicine which is mixed with spirituous liquor or
flesh meat; or which has been prescribed by a physician whose
character is unknown.

32.  Never allow bodily excretions or evacuations or saliva to
fall in places prohibited by the stras or by public custom.

33.  Never enter or leave (a house) by a side entrance (or
private door); never take up your residence at a place belonging
to another person, without asking the owner's permission.

34.  Males ought not to listen to (discourses on) religious
knowledge, or to tales (about the exploits of heroes) from the
mouths of women, [Footnote: This is in strict unison with the
present Hind practice of keeping women ignorant.  That women in
ancient times were not only educated, but sometimes erudite and
celebrated as religious teachers, is proved by the example of
Maitrey, Grg and others] nor ought they to carry on
controversial discussions with females; nor with a king or his
officials.

35.  Never speak disrespectfully of religious preceptors, of
superiors, of those who have gained renown in the world, of
learned men, and of those that carry arms.

36.  Never do any act rashly; nor be slow in a religious duty.
Impart to others the knowledge you may receive, and daily
associate with holy men.

37.  Do not go empty-handed to pay a visit to a religious
preceptor, a god or a king.  Never betray a trust or violate
confidence.  Never praise yourself with your own lips.

38.  The clothing of my followers should not be of such an
improper kind that, when put on, the limbs are exposed to view.

39.  The worship of K.rish.na must not be performed without
attending to religious duties.  Adoration of K.rish.na should not
be abandoned through fear of the reproaches of ignorant people.

40.  On religious festivals and on ordinary days, the males and
females that go to K.rish.na's temple should keep separate and
not touch each other.

41.  Those twice-born persons who have received initiation into
the worship of K.rish.na from a duly qualified religious teacher
should always wear on their necks two rosaries made of Tuls wood
(one for Rdh and another for K.rish.na), and should make an
upright mark on their foreheads.

42.  This mark should be made with Gop-andana (__i.e.__ white
earth from Dvrik), or with sandal which is left from that
employed in the worship of Hari (K.rish.na), and mixed with
saffron.

43.  Within this (erect mark) there ought to be made a round
(v.ritta) mark with the materials (or earth) used for the
Pu.n.dra, or with saffron which has served for the Prasda of
Rdh and K.rish.na (that is, with a portion left from that
employed in their worship).

44.  Those pure dras who are worshippers of K.rish.na, while
practising their own peculiar duties, should, like the twice-
born, use a rosary and a vertical mark on the forehead.

45.  By those (dra) worshippers who are different from the pure
dras two rosaries made of sandal wood, etc., are to be worn on
the throat, and only a round mark is to be made on the forehead.

46.  Those twice-born of my followers, who have inherited from
their forefathers the custom of using a rosary of Rudrksha
berries (sacred to iva), and the three horizontal (aiva) marks,
should not discontinue that practice.

47.  Nrya.na and iva should be equally regarded as
manifestations of one and the same Universal Spirit, since both
have been declared in the Vedas to be forms of Brahma.
[Footnote: This precept furnishes an interesting proof of the
tolerant character of Vaish.navism, and of its harmony with the
pantheism of the Vednta.]

48.  In times of slight distress my adherents shall not chiefly
(or by preference) follow the laws which are laid down by the
stras for times of (excessive) distress.

49.  Every day let every man awake before sunrise, and after
calling on the name of K.rish.na, proceed to the rites of bodily
purification.

50.  Having seated himself in some place apart, let him cleanse
his teeth, and then, having bathed with pure water, put on two
well-washed garments (an under and an upper).

51.  Then having seated himself on a clean and single
(asa.mkr.na) seat placed on ground purified (with cow-dung,
etc.), let a man sip water with his face either to the east or
north.

52.  My male followers should then make the vertical mark with
the round spot in it on their foreheads, and wives should only
make a circular mark with red powder (of saffron).

53.  A widow is prohibited from making either a vertical or round
mark on her forehead.  In the next place all my followers ought
to engage in the mental worship of K.rish.na.

54.  After engaging in mental worship, let them bow down before
the pictures of Rdh and K.rish.na, and repeat the eight-
syllabled prayer to K.rish.na (that is--the formula meaning
'K.rish.na is my refuge') as many times as possible.  After that
they may apply themselves to their secular affairs.

55.  All my ordinary disciples should perform the preceding
rules; but those who like Ambarsha have dedicated their whole
souls (to the Deity) should be most particular in performing the
duties ending with mental worship in the order enumerated (in the
preceding six verses as well as the following):--

56.  (Such devoted persons) should also then worship an image
made of either stone or metal, and the black stone called la-
grma (representing Vish.nu), with the (sixteen) offerings (of
sandal, etc.), such as are procurable, and the eight-syllabled
mantra of K.rish.na should be repeated (manu = mantra).

57.  Next (in order to the performance of brahma-yaj"na) the hymn
celebrating the praises of K.rish.na should be recited according
to ability, and those that have not studied Sansk.rit should at
least repeat his name.

58.  All who have devoted themselves (in this way) to the worship
of K.rish.na, should next present an offering (of cooked food) to
him, and then they should eat the remains of the offering
(prsdikam).  They should at all times be full of joy.

59.  Since they are called the passionless (nirgu.na) worshippers
of the passionless K.rish.na, therefore, in consequence of that,
all their acts are also (called) passionless (nirgu.na).

60.  By these devoted (worshippers) indeed no water should be
drunk, nor should any leaves, roots or fruits anywhere be eaten
which have not been presented to K.rish.na.

61.  All those who from old age or some grievous calamity are
unable (to perform worship) should make over the (image or
ala-grma stone) of K.rish.na to the charge of some other
devotee (able to carry on the proper services), and should
themselves act to the best of their ability.

62.  An image (or la-grma) of K.rish.na, given by a religious
leader (__rya__), or consecrated by him, should be worshipped,
but to other images it is sufficient to make obeisance.

63.  Every day all my followers should go to the temple of God in
the evening, and there loudly repeat the names of the lord of
Rdhik.

64.  The story of his exploits should be related as well as heard
with the greatest reverence, and on festivals hymns in praise of
K.rish.na should be sung accompanied by musical instruments.

65.  In this manner all my followers should every day perform
religious duties.  Moreover, they should study works both in
Sansk.rit and in the popular dialects, according to their mental
abilities.

66.  Whatever individual is appointed to any office, he should be
so appointed with strict regard to his qualifications, after due
consideration, and never in any other way.

67.  Let every one always provide his own servants with food and
clothing in the most suitable manner, and according to his own
pecuniary means.

68.  In conversation every person should be addressed conformably
to his character (or qualities), and suitably to time and place,
and not in any other manner.

69.  By all well-conducted persons due deference must be shown to
a religious guide, a king, an elder, an ascetic, a learned man,
and one that practises austerities, by rising from the seat and
so forth.

70.  No man should sit down on the ground in the presence of a
religious preceptor, a god, or king, or in a (solemn) assembly,
in such a (disrespectful) attitude as to make one foot rest on
the thigh, or with a cloth tied round the (waist and) knees.

71.  A controversial discussion should never be carried on with a
religious teacher (__rya__).  He is to be honoured with gifts
of food, money, clothes, and with all other things according to
ability.

72.  When any of my disciples hear of his arrival, they should
immediately show their respect by advancing to meet him, and when
he departs, they should accompany him as far as the confines of
the village.

73.  If an act, attended with large recompense, be opposed to
religious duty, that act ought not to be committed; for religious
duty (when performed) confers all desired objects.

74.  An unrighteous act that may have been committed by great
persons in former times must never be held (worthy of imitation);
but their virtuous conduct only is to be imitated.

75.  Let not the secrets of any one be ever anywhere divulged,
the neglect (vyatikrama) of proper respect (for those deserving
of reverence) should never be made, (as if all were to be looked
at) with an equal eye (of esteem).

76.  All my disciples should practise special religious
observances during the four special months (beginning with
sh.dha).  But those who are sickly need only practise the same
in the one month of rva.na only.

77.  Reading and listening to the exploits of Vish.nu, singing
his praises, solemn worship, repetition of his mantra ("Great
K.rish.na is my refuge"), recitation of the hymn of praise
(__i.e.__ of the thousand names of Vish.nu), reverential
circumambulations (from left to right with the right side towards
the object adored),

78.  Prostration with the eight members (of the body) these are
considered the best religious observances; any one of these ought
to be performed with special devotion.

79.  The fasts of all the eleventh days (of the waxing and waning
moon) should be carefully observed; also of the birthdays of
K.rish.na; and of the night of iva (__iva-rtri__) with
rejoicings during the day.

80.  On a fast-day sleeping by day should most carefully be
avoided, since by such sleep the merit of fasting is lost to men,
quite as much as by sexual intercourse.

81.  Whatever appointed order of religious fasts and festivals
(vrata and utsava) was enjoined by r Vi.th.thalea
(Vi.th.thala-natha), who was the son of r Vallabhrya, the
most eminent of Vaish.navas.

82.  Having conformed to that order, all religious fasts and
festivals should be observed accordingly; and the form of
worshipping K.rish.na directed by him (Vi.th.thalea) should be
adopted.

83.  A pilgrimage to the Trthas, or holy places, of which
Dvrik (K.rish.na's city in Gujart) is the chief, should be
performed according to rule.  Love and Charity should be shown
towards the poor by all, according to ability.

84.  Vish.nu, iva, Ga.na-pati (Ga.nea), Prvat, and the Sun,
these five deities should be honoured with worship by my
followers.  [Footnote: It is evident from this verse, as from
verse 47, that although Vaish.navas give preferential worship to
Vish.nu, they are really Pantheists in the sense of honouring
other deities, as manifestations of the Supreme Being.  It may be
observed that although five deities are here mentioned, Ga.napati
and Prvat are connected with iva, as the Sun is with Vish.nu.]

85.  When at any place a calamity is caused by a demon or by any
similar cause, the charm called Nrya.na should be recited or
the mantra of Hanumn should be muttered, but not the mantra of
any inferior god less esteemed.

86.  On the occurrence of eclipses of the sun and moon, all my
followers should immediately suspend their other business, and,
having purified themselves, should make repetition of the (eight-
syllabled) mantra of K.rish.na.

87.  When the eclipse has passed off, they should bathe with
their clothes on, and those who are householders should
distribute gifts according to their ability.  Other persons (who
have no worldly means) should engage in the worship of the
supreme Lord (Vish.nu).

88.  Those followers of mine who belong to the four classes
should observe, in conformity with the stras, the rules in
regard to the contraction of impurity through births and deaths,
according to the degree of kinship.

89.  Brhmans should possess tranquillity of mind, self-
restraint, forbearance, contentment and similar virtues.
Kshatriyas (or the soldier caste) should be remarkable for
bravery, fortitude, and the like qualities.

90.  Vaiyas (or the agricultural and commercial caste) should
occupy themselves in mercantile pursuits, money-lending, and the
like.  dras (or the servile class) should be employed in
serving the twice-born, etc.

91.  The twice-born should perform at the proper seasons, and
according to their means--each according to his own domestic
rules--the twelve purificatory rites [Footnote: Of these only six
are now generally performed, viz.:--1, the birth-ceremony, or
touching the tongue of a new-born infant with clarified butter,
etc.; 2, the name-giving ceremony on the tenth day; 3, tonsure;
4, induction into the privileges of the twice-born, by
investiture with the sacred thread; 5, solemn return home from
the house of a preceptor after completing the prescribed course
of study; 6, marriage.  See __Indian Wisdom__, p. 246.]
(__sanskra__), the (six) daily duties [Footnote: The six daily
duties (called Nitya-karman), according to Parara, are:--1,
bathing; 2, morning and evening prayer (sandhy); 3, repetition
of sacred texts; 4, offerings to fire (homa); 5, worship of
ancestors; 6, worship of the gods.  The six daily acts enjoined
by Manu are different.  See __Indian Wisdom__, p. 244.], and the
raddha offerings to the spirits of departed ancestors.

92.  If intentionally or unintentionally any sin, great or small,
be committed, the proper penance must be performed according to
ability.

93.  The Vedas, the Vednta-stras of Vyasa, the Bhgavata-
pur.na and the thousand names of Vish.nu in the Mahbhrata,

94.  The Bhagavad-gt and the precepts of Vidura, the Vsudeva-
mhtmya from the Vaish.nava-kha.n.da of the Skanda-Pur.na,

95.  And the Sm.riti of Yj"navalkya, which is one of the Dharma-
stras, these eight sacred books are approved by me as
authorities.  [Footnote: I commend this list to the attention of
those European scholars who wish to be guided by Indian
authorities in determining the real "sacred books" of India.]

96.  All my twice-born disciples who wish good to themselves
should recite these sacred books and hear them recited.

97.  In deciding questions of ancient usage (ra), or practice,
or penance, the code of Yj"navalkya, with its commentary the
Mitkshar, should be taken (as the best authority).

98.  The tenth and fifth books of the Bhgavata Pur.na are to be
regarded as having the preeminence over all the other sacred
books for the understanding of the glory of K.rish.na.

99.  The tenth and fifth books of the Bhgavata Pur.na and the
code of Yj"navalkya are respectively my Bhakti-stra (manual of
faith), Yoga-stra (manual of devotion), and Dharma-stra
(manual of law).

100.  As a treatise on the soul, the commentary on the Bhagavad-
Gt as well as that on the rraka-Stras of Vysa, made by
Rmnujrya, commends itself to my approval.

101.  Whatever precepts in these sacred books have for their
subject the excessive exaltation of K.rish.na and of Justice
(V.risha), of faith and of indifference to the world--

102.  Such precepts should be regarded as taking precedence over
all others.  Their essential doctrine is that devotion to
K.rish.na should be joined with the performance of duty.

103.  Duty (__dharma__) is that good practice which is enjoined
both by the Veda (ruti) and by the law (Sm.riti) founded on the
Veda.  Devotion (__bhakti__) is intense love for K.rish.na,
accompanied with a due sense of his glory.

104.  Indifference to worldly objects means absence of
satisfaction in any object except K.rish.na.  True knowledge
consists in discriminating rightly between the nature of the
personal soul (jiva), of the external world (My), and of the
Supreme Being (a).

105.  The personal soul dwells in the heart.  It is as subtle as
an atom; it is all thought; it has the faculty of knowledge; it
is ascertained to be constantly pervading the whole body
(__i.e.__ the three corporeal envelopes kra.na, skshma, and
sthla) by its power of perception; it is characterized by
indivisibility and the like.

106.  The external world (My) is identical with the energizing
power of K.rish.na.  It is composed of the three Gu.nas; it is
darkness; it is to be understood as the cause of the soul's
having such ideas in regard to the body, and the things relating
to the body, as are conveyed by the expressions I, mine, and the
like.

107.  He who abides in the living personal soul in the character
of an internal monitor, as the personal soul dwells in the heart,
he is to be considered as the Self-existent Supreme Being, the
Rewarder of all actions.

108.  That Being, known by various names--such as the glorious
K.rish.na, Param Brahma, Bhagavn, Purushottama.h--the cause of
all manifestations, is to be adored by us as our one chosen
deity.

109.  He, together with Rdh, should be regarded as the Supreme
Lord, under the name of Rdh-K.rish.na.  With Rukmi.n and Ram
he is known as Lakshm-Nrya.na.

110.  When joined with Arjuna, he is known by the name of Nara-
Nrya.na; when associated with Bala-bhadra ( = Bala-rma), or
any other divine personage, he is called Ram-K.rish.na and so
on.

111.  Those devoted (female companions of the god) Rdh and his
other (consorts) are in some places represented at his side.  In
other places (their images do not appear, because) they are
supposed to be one with his body and he with theirs.

112.  On no account let it be supposed that difference in forms
makes any difference in the identity of the deity.  For the two-
armed K.rish.na may exhibit himself with four arms (or eight, or
a thousand, or any number of arms).

113.  Towards him alone ought all faith and worship (bhakti) to
be directed by every human being on earth in every possible
manner.  Nothing else, except such (faith), is able to procure
salvation.

114.  The best result of the virtues of those who possess good
qualities is faith in K.rish.na and association with holy men;
without these, even persons who know (the stras) go downwards
(towards a lower state).

115.  Meditation should be directed towards K.rish.na, his
incarnations and their images, but not towards living men, nor
(inferior) gods, etc., nor devotees, nor (even) those who
(merely) have knowledge of Brahma.

116.  Having perceived, by abstract meditation, that the Spirit
or Self is distinct from its three bodies (viz. the gross, subtle
and causal bodies), and that it is a portion of the one Spirit of
the Universe (Brahma), every man ought to worship K.rish.na by
means of that (self) at all times.

117.  The tenth book of the Bhgavata-Pur.na should be listened
to reverentially, and learned men should read it daily or (if
frequent reading is impossible, at least) once a year.

118.  The repetition (of the Bhgavata), as well as of the
thousand names of Vish.nu, etc., should be performed as far as
possible in a pure place (such as the precincts of a temple); for
(such repetition) causes the accomplishment of desired objects.

119.  On the occurrence of any disaster caused by the elements
(such as a flood or fire), or when any human calamity or sickness
takes place, a man should be wholly occupied in striving to
preserve himself and other people and in nothing else.

120.  Religious usages, business transactions and penances,
should be adapted to country, time, age, property, rank and
ability.

121.  The (philosophical) doctrine approved by me is the
Viish.tdvaita (of Rmnuja) [Footnote: This verse proves that in
their philosophical ideas the Svmi-Nrya.na sect are followers of
the Rmnuja sect.  Compare verse 100.], and the desired heavenly
abode is Goloka.  There to worship K.rish.na, and be united with
him as the Supreme Soul of the Universe, is to be considered
salvation (Mukti).

122.  These that have been specified are the general duties,
applicable to all my followers, whether male or female.  Now I am
about to enumerate the special duties.

123.  The two sons of my elder and younger brothers (viz.
Ayodhy-prasda and Raghu-vra) ought never to impart instruction
to any women except their nearest relations.

124.  They ought never to touch or converse with any women in any
place whatever.  Cruelty should never be shown towards any
person.  A deposit belonging to another should never be taken
charge of.

125.  In business matters no one should stand security for any
other person.  In passing through a time of distress it is right
to ask for alms, but debts should not be contracted.

126.  One should not sell corn bestowed by one's own disciples;
having given away old corn, new corn is to be bought.  That is
not called a sale.

127.  On the fourth day of the light-half of the month Bhdra,
the worship of Ga.nea should be performed, and on the fourteenth
of the dark-half of vina, Hanumn should be worshipped.

128.  Those two sons (of my brothers, viz. Ayodhy-prasda and
Raghu-vra), who have been appointed as spiritual guides to guard
the religious interests of my followers, should initiate all
desirous of obtaining salvation (in the use of the mantra of
K.rish.na).

129.  They should cause each of their disciples to continue
steadfast in his own appointed duty.  Honour should be paid to
holy men, and the sacred stras should be reverently repeated.

130.  Worship of Lakshm-Nrya.na, and other forms of K.rish.na
that have been set up and consecrated by me in the great temples,
should be performed with the proper ceremonies.

131.  Any one who may come to the temple of K.rish.na to ask for
a gift of food (cooked or uncooked) should be received with
respect, and food given to him according to ability.

132.  Having established a school for giving instruction, some
learned Brhman should be appointed over it.  True knowledge
should be promoted throughout the world, for that is an act of
great merit.

133.  The two wives of these (sons of my brothers), with the
permission of their respective husbands, should initiate females
only (eva) in the Mantra of K.rish.na.

134.  They should never touch or speak to other males than their
nearest relations; nor should they ever show their faces to them.

135.  My male followers who are householders should never touch
widows unless they are their own near relatives.

136.  They should not remain alone in any private place with a
youthful mother, sister or daughter, except in a time of
distress.  Nor should a wife be given away (to another man).

137.  No attachment should on any account be formed with a woman
who in any transactions has been brought into connexion with the
king of the country.

138.  When a guest has arrived at a house, he should be honoured
by those (who live in it) with food and other things according to
ability.  Offerings to the Gods and the Pit.ris (at the Devat-
tarpa.na and Pit.ri-tarpa.na and rddha ceremonies) should be
made according to right usage and according to one's means.

139.  It is the duty of my disciples, as long as they live and
according to their ability, to honour with faithful attention
their father, mother, spiritual preceptor, and any one affected
with sickness.

140.  Every person should, according to his ability, carry on
some occupation suitable to his caste and religious order.  Those
that live by agriculture should not allow a bull to be gelded.

141.  Provisions and money should be laid by according to
circumstances and time; and those that keep cattle should store
up as much hay as these animals may need for their consumption.

142.  If a man can himself attend to the proper feeding of cows
and other animals with hay and water, then only he may keep them,
otherwise he must not do so.

143.  No business in regard to giving or receiving land or
property should ever be transacted even with a son or friend,
without a written deed attested by witnesses.

144.  When any pecuniary transactions connected with giving away
a girl in marriage have to be transacted for one's self or
another person, the money to be delivered over should not be
settled by verbal agreement, but only by a written contract
attested by witnesses.

145.  A man's expenditure ought always to be in proportion to his
income.  Otherwise it is certain that great misery will arise.

146.  Every day one should take note of one's income and
expenditure in the regular business of life, and write them down
with one's own hand.

147.  My followers should assign a tithe of the grain, money,
etc., acquired by their own occupation or exertions, to
K.rish.na, and the poor should give a twentieth part.

148.  The due performance of fasts, of which the eleventh-day
fasts are the principal, should be effected according to the
stras and one's ability; for this will lead to the attainment
of desired objects.

149.  Every year in the month rva.na one should perform, or
cause others to perform, cheerfully the worship of iva with the
leaves of the Bilva-tree, etc.

150.  Neither money, nor utensils, nor ornaments, nor clothes
should be borrowed for use (on festive occasions) from one's own
spiritual preceptor, or from the temple of K.rish.na.

151.  While going to do homage to great K.rish.na, to a spiritual
preceptor, or to a holy man, food should not be accepted from
others on the road, or at the places of pilgrimage; for such food
takes away religious merit.

152.  The full amount of promised wages should be paid to a
workman.  Payment of a debt is never to be kept secret.  Let no
one have any dealings with wicked men.

153.  If through great distress caused by a famine, by enemies,
or by (the oppression of) a king, any danger of destruction
arises anywhere to character, wealth or life,

154.  The wise among my followers should at once quit even their
own native country, and having gone to another, let them reside
there happily.

155.  Wealthy householders should perform those sacrifices in
honour of Vish.nu which entail no killing of animals.  Brhmans
and holy men (Sdhus) should be fed on festival days at sacred
places of pilgrimage.

156.  They should observe the great festivals in honour of the
Deity in the temples, and should distribute various gifts among
Brhmans who are deserving objects (of generosity).

157.  Kings who are my followers should govern all their subjects
in accordance with the law (laid down in the Dharma-stras), and
should protect them as if they were their children, and should
establish the observance of proper duties throughout the whole
land.

158.  They should be well acquainted with the circumstances of
their kingdom; as, for example, with the seven Angas (viz. the
duties of the sovereign, minister, ally, treasury, territory,
fortresses and army); the four Upyas (viz. conciliation, sowing
dissension, bribing, and punishing); the six Gu.nas (viz. peace,
war, marching, sitting encamped, dividing the forces, having
recourse to an ally for protection); and the places of resort to
which spies should be sent.  They should also make themselves
acquainted with the men who are skilled in legal procedure, and
with all the court functionaries, observing by the right signs
whether any ought to be punished or not.  [Footnote: With
reference to this verse compare Manu's directions to Kings (Books
vii. and viii.), and the precepts in the Vigraha chapter of the
Hitopadea.]

159.  Wives should honour their husbands as if they were gods,
and never offend them with improper language, though they be
diseased, indigent, or imbecile.  [Footnote: Compare Manu, v. 154.]

160.  No communication, even though arising naturally
(__shajika__), should be held with any other man who may be
possessed of beauty, youth and good qualities.

161.  A chaste woman should not allow her navel, thighs, or
breasts to be seen by males; nor should she remain without an
upper garment (anuttary), nor should she look at (the antics
of) buffoons, nor associate with an immodest woman.

162.  A wife while her husband is absent in a foreign country
should wear neither ornaments nor fine clothes; she ought not to
frequent other people's houses, and should abstain from laughing
and talking with other women.

163.  Widows should serve the God K.rish.na with minds intent on
him as their only husband; they should live under the control of
their father, or other male members of the family, and never in
independence.

164.  They must never at any time touch any men except their
nearest relations, and when young they should never without
necessity engage in conversation with youthful men.

165.  If an infant male-child touch them, no blame attaches to
them, any more than from contact with a dumb animal; nor if they
are compelled from necessity to talk with or touch an old man.

166.  Instruction in any science should not be received by them
from any man except from their nearest relations.  They should
frequently emaciate their bodies by vows and fasts.

167.  They should never give away to others the money which is
required for their own support.  That only must be given away
which they have in excess.

168.  They should eat only one meal a day, and should sleep on
the ground; they should never look at (animals) engaged in sexual
acts.

169.  They must never wear the dress of a married woman, nor of a
female ascetic, nor of a mendicant, nor any unbecoming attire.

170.  They should neither associate with nor touch a woman who
has been guilty of procuring abortion; nor should they either
converse about, or hear stories of the loves of the male sex.

171.  Except in times of distress widows who are young should
never remain alone in secret places along with men, even with
their own relatives, if youthful.

172.  They should never join in the frolics practised at the Hol
festival, nor should they put on ornaments or finely woven
clothes composed of cotton or metal threads.

173.  Neither wives nor widows ought ever to bathe without
wearing clothes.  No woman should ever conceal the first
appearance of her monthly periods.

174.  A woman at that season should not for an interval of three
days touch any human being, clothes, etc.; nor ought she to do so
till she has bathed on the fourth day.

175.  Those of my followers who have taken the vow of Naish.thika
Brahmars (that is, of perpetual celibacy and chastity) must
not knowingly either touch or converse with or look at women.

176.  They should never talk or listen to conversations about
women, and they should not perform their ablutions or other
religious rites at places where women pass backwards and
forwards.

177.  They should never knowingly touch or look at even the
pictures or wooden images of women, unless they be the
representations of goddesses.

178.  They should neither draw any likeness of a woman, nor touch
her clothes.  They must never knowingly look even at animals
engaged in sexual acts.

179.  They should neither touch nor look at a male dressed up as
a woman; nor should they sing the praises of the Deity with a
view to being heard by women.

180.  They should pay no attention to the command of even their
spiritual preceptor if likely to lead them to a breach of their
vow of chastity.  They should continue steadfast, contented, and
humble-minded.

181.  When a woman insists on forcing herself near them, they
should immediately try to keep her off by expostulating with her,
and (if she still approaches) by reproaching her.

182.  In cases where their own lives, or those of women, are in
jeopardy, they may be allowed contact or conversation with women,
such contact being necessary for the saving of life.

183.  They should not anoint their lips with oil.  They should
not carry weapons.  They should not dress themselves in
unbecoming costume.  They should subdue the sense of taste.

184.  If in the house of any Brhman the meals are cooked and
served up by a woman, they should not go there to ask for food,
but should ask for it at some other house.

185.  They should constantly repeat the Vedas and stras, and
serve their spiritual preceptor.  They must shun the society of
women, and of men who are fond of women.

186.  He who is by birth a Brhman should on no account drink
water from a leathern vessel; nor should he ever eat garlic,
onions, etc.

187.  Nor must he eat food without having first performed his
ablutions, the Sandhy service, repetition of the Gyatri, the
worship of Vish.nu, and the Vaivadeva ceremony.  [Footnote: This
ceremony, which partly consists in throwing portions of food into
the fire, before dinner, as an offering to all the deities, will
be fully described in my new work on "Religious Thought and Life
in India," to be published by Mr. Murray.]

188.  All who are Sdhus are bound, just like those who have made
a vow of perpetual celibacy, to avoid associating with women, or
with men who are fond of women, and should subdue their (six)
internal enemies (lust, anger, avarice, infatuation, pride, and
envy).

189.  They should subjugate all the senses, more especially the
sense of taste; they should neither lay by a store of property
themselves, nor make others do so for them.

190.  They must not take charge of any one's deposit, they should
never relax their firmness, nor allow a woman to enter their
abodes at any time.  [Footnote: We may notice that there is no
little repetition in this Book of instructions, especially in
enforcing the duty of keeping clear of all feminine seductions.]

191.  Except at a time of distress, they should never go anywhere
by night without a companion, nor should they travel to any place
singly.

192.  They should not use a costly variegated cloth, or one dyed
with kusumbha, or dyed in any other way; or any expensive cloth,
though freely presented to them by another.

193.  They should not go to the houses of householders unless for
the purpose of asking alms, or for being present at an assembly.
They should not spend time uselessly without devoting any of it
to the worship of the Deity.

194.  To the abode of a householder in which only males are
employed for serving up the cooked food, and where no woman is to
be seen--

195.  To the house of such a householder only should my Sdhus
resort for participation in a meal, otherwise they should ask for
uncooked food, and prepare it themselves.

196.  All my holiest sages should conduct themselves in the same
manner as Bharata, son of .Rishabha, the idiot Brhman (Ja.da-
vipra), did in ancient times.  [Footnote: The story is told in
Vish.nu-pur.na, ii. 13.  He feigned idiocy, that he might not be
troubled with worldly society and might so give his undivided
attention to devotional exercises.]

197.  Those holy men (Sdhus) who are Brahmars should
diligently abstain from eating or using betel-leaves, opium,
tobacco (tamla), etc.

198.  They should never accept a meal given on the performance of
the Sa__n__skra ceremonies, beginning with that of conception;
[Footnote: See note to verse 91.] nor on performing the rddha
ceremony at death, nor at that performed on the 12th day after
decease.

199.  They should never sleep during the day, unless afflicted
with sickness, etc.  They should never gossip about local
matters, nor intentionally listen to such gossip.

200.  They should not lie down on a bedstead except when
suffering from illness or other affliction, and should be
guileless and straightforward in their behaviour towards other
Sdhus.

201.  They should patiently bear abusive language, or even blows
from evil-minded persons, and wish good to (them in return).

202.  They should not undertake the work of a go-between or
informer, or spy; they should never show selfishness or
partiality towards their relations.

203.  Thus I have specified in a summary manner the general
duties of all.  Those who desire more particular instructions
must refer to the sacred books handed down by tradition.

204.  Having myself extracted the essence of an the sacred
strs, I have written this Directory, which leads men to the
attainment of desired objects.

205.  Hence it is incumbent on my followers, having their minds
well controlled, to conduct themselves in conformity with its
precepts, and not according to their own wills.

206.  Those males and females of my disciples who will act
according to these directions shall certainly obtain the four
great objects of human desires (viz. __Dharma__, religious merit;
__Artha__, wealth; __Kma__, pleasure; and __Moksha__, final
beatitude).

207.  Those who will not act according to these (directions)
shall be considered by my male and female followers as excluded
from communion with my sect.

208.  My followers should daily read this Book of directions, and
those who do not know how to read should listen to others reading
it.

209.  But in the absence of a reader (vaktrabhve), worship
should be paid to it every day, and it should be honoured with
the greatest reverence as my word and my representative.

210.  This Directory should only be given to those persons who
are endowed with a nature of the divine type; never to a man
possessing a nature of the demoniacal type.  [Footnote: The
Pur.nas divide all men into two classes: those whose nature is
divine, and those whose nature is demoniacal.]

211.  This Book of directions, bringing welfare (to all who study
it), was completed on the first day of the season of spring in
the year 1882 of the era of Vikramditya.  ( = A.D. 1826).

212.  May K.rish.na, the remover of the sufferings of his
worshippers, the maintainer of devotion, accompanied with the
performance of proper duties, the bestower of the desires of the
heart, grant us blessings of all kinds!






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Siksha-Patri of the Swami-Narayana
Sect, by Professor Monier Williams (Trans.)





Originally scanned at sacred-texts.com by John B. Hare,
this eBook was produced by Chetan Jain at BharatLiterature.






The iksh-Patr of the Svmi-Nrya.na Sect





JOURNAL

OF

THE ROYAL ASIATIC SOCIETY.



[New Series, Volume XIV]

[London, Trbner and Company]

[1882]


{Scanned and edited by Christopher M. Weimer, May 2002.
Circumflexes represent macrons in this file, and  represents c
with an acute marking.  Also, the name Brahma (not Param Brahma)
is spelled with a breve over the final a, which is not
represented.}



ART. XXIV.--__Sansk.rit Text of the iksh-Patr of the Svmi-
Nrya.na Sect__.  Edited by Professor Monier Williams, C.I.E.,
D.C.L.


[THE text of the iksh-Patr of the modern Vaish.nava Sect,
called Svmi-Nrya.na, was lithographed in Samvat 1928 (A.D.
1872) by order of the Heads of the Sect.  It has a Gujart
Commentary by Nitynanda-muni.  So far as I know, this is the
only version of the text that has yet appeared.  It was given to
me by the Wartl Mahrja on the occasion of my first visit to
Wartl in 1875.  It is full of mistakes, and in preparing the
following edition of the text I have taken as my guide the far
more accurate manuscript and Sansk.rit commentary written by
Pa.n.dit atnanda-muni, and given to me by the Mahrja on the
same occasion.]



TRANSLATION OF THE FOREGOING IKSH-PATR.

BY PROFESSOR MONIER WILLIAMS.


[In making the following translation I have been careful to study
the Sansk.rit commentary called Artha-dpik, written for me in
clear beautiful characters by Pa.n.dit atnanda-muni (one of the
disciples of Svmi-Nrya.na), by order of the Wartl Mahrja,
after one of the formal visits to the Wartl Temple, which were
kindly arranged for me by Mr. Frederick Sheppard, C.S., late
Collector of Kaira, and now Commissioner.  The translation is the
first ever made by any European scholar, though it is right I
should mention that I have consulted a fairly accurate version
(not always perfect either in its renderings or its English)
written by She.th Bhogill Prnjvands, of the Bombay Education
Society's Institution, Ahmedabad, and given in Mr. H. C. Briggs'
work, "The Cities of Gujarsh.tra."  I have also received
assistance from my friend Pa.n.dit Shymaj K.rish.na-varm, of
Balliol College, Oxford.]


1.  I meditate in my heart on that K.rish.na on whose left side
is seated Rdh, on whose breast reclines r (Lakshm), and who
enjoyed sport (with them) in V.rindvana.

2.  I, Sahajnanda.h Svm (afterwards called Svm-Nrya.na),
living at V.rittlaya, write this Letter of instructions (or Book
of directions) to all my followers scattered throughout various
countries.

3.  Let the two youths named Ayodhy-prasda and Raghu-vra, the
sons of my two brothers, Rma-pratpa and Ih-rma, who were
the children of Dharma (or Hari-prasda);

4.  And let those Naish.thika Brahmars (that is to say, those
Brahmans who continue Brahma-rs or celibates all their lives),
the chief among whom is Mukundnanda, and those G.rihasthas
(householders), such as Mayrma-Bha.t.ta, and other of my
followers;

5.  And let those women, whether wives or widows, who have become
my disciples, and the whole number of holy men (Sdhus), such as
Muktnanda and others;

6.  Let all these (persons) constantly give heed to my prayers
for their perpetual continuance in their own proper duties--(my
prayers) offered up with repetition of the name K.rish.na
(Nrya.na), and in accordance with the sacred scriptures.
(Literally--Let my benedictory words which keep them in their own
duties be always read by all these persons accompanied by
repetition of the name of K.rish.na, and approved by the
stras.)

7.  Let this Letter of directions, which has important objects
(to be hereafter enumerated), and which promotes the welfare of
all living beings, be studied with perfect concentration of mind
by all these (persons).

8.  Those (virtuous) persons who conform to the good usages
enjoined by the sacred stras will always enjoy great happiness
both in this world and in that which is to come.

9.  But those evil-minded persons who wilfully transgress such
(good usages) will certainly suffer great misery in this world as
well as in the next.

10.  Therefore let all of you who are my disciples always remain
careful and well-contented in the observance of this (Book of
directions).

11.  Let no followers of mine ever intentionally kill any living
thing whatever--not even a louse, flea, or the most minute
insect.

12.  The killing of any animal such as a goat, etc., for the
purpose of sacrificing to the Gods and Pit.ris, must not be
practised; because it is declared, that abstinence from injury to
others is the highest of all duties.

13.  The killing of any human being in any way, at any place, for
any object, (even) for the sake of acquiring a wife, wealth, or
political supremacy, is wholly prohibited.

14.  Suicide at a sacred place of pilgrimage, or from passion,
either by hanging, or by poison in consequence of the commission
of a criminal act [Footnote: A father sometimes kills himself
because a criminal act has been committed by a member of his
family], is prohibited.

15.  Flesh meat should never be eaten, not even that which
remains of a sacrifice.  Spirituous liquor of any kind should
never be drunk, not even that presented to the Gods.

16.  If an unlawful act has been committed anywhere by one's self
or any other person, no member either of one's own or any other
person's body should be on that account mutilated with a weapon
of any kind through anger.

17.  All theft is prohibited, even that which is committed under
pretence of contributing to religious purposes; nor must such
things as wood and flowers that have an owner ever be abstracted
without his permission.

18.  Let no male or female followers of mine ever commit
adultery.  Let them shun gaming and similar vices, and abstain
from all intoxicating liquors and substances such as hemp, etc.

19.  Nowhere--except in Jaganntha-pur--let a man accept water
or food which has been cooked by one from whom food is not to be
taken (__i.e.__ from a person of low caste), even though that
food may have formed the Prasda [Footnote: By Prasda is meant
the remains of food presented as an offering to a god.  Here the
word must be either prasd or prasdi, from prasdin] of
K.rish.na (that is, the remains of what has been presented as an
offering to K.rish.na).

20.  No calumnious language must be used against any one for the
sake of promoting one's own interests.  No abusive words must
ever be spoken.

21.  Never use nor listen to profane language against the Gods,
sacred places, Brhmans, holy women, Sdhus and the Vedas.

22.  The remains of the offering to that Goddess to whom flesh
and liquor are offered and in whose presence the killing of
goats, etc., takes place, are not to be eaten.

23.  If you happen on the road to see before you a temple of iva
or any other God, having first made a salutation, respectfully
enter inside to view the image.

24.  Let no one abandon the duties of the class and order to
which he belongs, nor practise the religious duties of others;
nor have anything to do with those propounded by heretical
teachers.

25.  The narrative of the exploits of the Lord K.rish.na should
not be heard from the mouth of any person whose words lead one to
fall from his worship or from duty.

26.  Never tell a truth which is likely to cause serious injury
to yourself or to any one else.  Avoid associating with
ungrateful persons.  Never accept a bribe from any person
whatever.

27.  Never associate with thieves, wicked or vicious persons,
heretics, people who are in love, and people who are engaged in
dishonest occupations.

28.  Never associate with those who, through eager desire to
obtain a wife, wealth or some sensual gratification, practise
sinful acts under pretext of devotion to religion or to sacred
knowledge.

29.  Never pay attention to those books in which K.rish.na and
his incarnations are impugned by controversial arguments.

30.  No unstrained water or milk should be drunk, nor should
water containing minute insects be used for such purposes as
bathing, etc.

31.  Never take medicine which is mixed with spirituous liquor or
flesh meat; or which has been prescribed by a physician whose
character is unknown.

32.  Never allow bodily excretions or evacuations or saliva to
fall in places prohibited by the stras or by public custom.

33.  Never enter or leave (a house) by a side entrance (or
private door); never take up your residence at a place belonging
to another person, without asking the owner's permission.

34.  Males ought not to listen to (discourses on) religious
knowledge, or to tales (about the exploits of heroes) from the
mouths of women, [Footnote: This is in strict unison with the
present Hind practice of keeping women ignorant.  That women in
ancient times were not only educated, but sometimes erudite and
celebrated as religious teachers, is proved by the example of
Maitrey, Grg and others] nor ought they to carry on
controversial discussions with females; nor with a king or his
officials.

35.  Never speak disrespectfully of religious preceptors, of
superiors, of those who have gained renown in the world, of
learned men, and of those that carry arms.

36.  Never do any act rashly; nor be slow in a religious duty.
Impart to others the knowledge you may receive, and daily
associate with holy men.

37.  Do not go empty-handed to pay a visit to a religious
preceptor, a god or a king.  Never betray a trust or violate
confidence.  Never praise yourself with your own lips.

38.  The clothing of my followers should not be of such an
improper kind that, when put on, the limbs are exposed to view.

39.  The worship of K.rish.na must not be performed without
attending to religious duties.  Adoration of K.rish.na should not
be abandoned through fear of the reproaches of ignorant people.

40.  On religious festivals and on ordinary days, the males and
females that go to K.rish.na's temple should keep separate and
not touch each other.

41.  Those twice-born persons who have received initiation into
the worship of K.rish.na from a duly qualified religious teacher
should always wear on their necks two rosaries made of Tuls wood
(one for Rdh and another for K.rish.na), and should make an
upright mark on their foreheads.

42.  This mark should be made with Gop-andana (__i.e.__ white
earth from Dvrik), or with sandal which is left from that
employed in the worship of Hari (K.rish.na), and mixed with
saffron.

43.  Within this (erect mark) there ought to be made a round
(v.ritta) mark with the materials (or earth) used for the
Pu.n.dra, or with saffron which has served for the Prasda of
Rdh and K.rish.na (that is, with a portion left from that
employed in their worship).

44.  Those pure dras who are worshippers of K.rish.na, while
practising their own peculiar duties, should, like the twice-
born, use a rosary and a vertical mark on the forehead.

45.  By those (dra) worshippers who are different from the pure
dras two rosaries made of sandal wood, etc., are to be worn on
the throat, and only a round mark is to be made on the forehead.

46.  Those twice-born of my followers, who have inherited from
their forefathers the custom of using a rosary of Rudrksha
berries (sacred to iva), and the three horizontal (aiva) marks,
should not discontinue that practice.

47.  Nrya.na and iva should be equally regarded as
manifestations of one and the same Universal Spirit, since both
have been declared in the Vedas to be forms of Brahma.
[Footnote: This precept furnishes an interesting proof of the
tolerant character of Vaish.navism, and of its harmony with the
pantheism of the Vednta.]

48.  In times of slight distress my adherents shall not chiefly
(or by preference) follow the laws which are laid down by the
stras for times of (excessive) distress.

49.  Every day let every man awake before sunrise, and after
calling on the name of K.rish.na, proceed to the rites of bodily
purification.

50.  Having seated himself in some place apart, let him cleanse
his teeth, and then, having bathed with pure water, put on two
well-washed garments (an under and an upper).

51.  Then having seated himself on a clean and single
(asa.mkr.na) seat placed on ground purified (with cow-dung,
etc.), let a man sip water with his face either to the east or
north.

52.  My male followers should then make the vertical mark with
the round spot in it on their foreheads, and wives should only
make a circular mark with red powder (of saffron).

53.  A widow is prohibited from making either a vertical or round
mark on her forehead.  In the next place all my followers ought
to engage in the mental worship of K.rish.na.

54.  After engaging in mental worship, let them bow down before
the pictures of Rdh and K.rish.na, and repeat the eight-
syllabled prayer to K.rish.na (that is--the formula meaning
'K.rish.na is my refuge') as many times as possible.  After that
they may apply themselves to their secular affairs.

55.  All my ordinary disciples should perform the preceding
rules; but those who like Ambarsha have dedicated their whole
souls (to the Deity) should be most particular in performing the
duties ending with mental worship in the order enumerated (in the
preceding six verses as well as the following):--

56.  (Such devoted persons) should also then worship an image
made of either stone or metal, and the black stone called la-
grma (representing Vish.nu), with the (sixteen) offerings (of
sandal, etc.), such as are procurable, and the eight-syllabled
mantra of K.rish.na should be repeated (manu = mantra).

57.  Next (in order to the performance of brahma-yaj"na) the hymn
celebrating the praises of K.rish.na should be recited according
to ability, and those that have not studied Sansk.rit should at
least repeat his name.

58.  All who have devoted themselves (in this way) to the worship
of K.rish.na, should next present an offering (of cooked food) to
him, and then they should eat the remains of the offering
(prsdikam).  They should at all times be full of joy.

59.  Since they are called the passionless (nirgu.na) worshippers
of the passionless K.rish.na, therefore, in consequence of that,
all their acts are also (called) passionless (nirgu.na).

60.  By these devoted (worshippers) indeed no water should be
drunk, nor should any leaves, roots or fruits anywhere be eaten
which have not been presented to K.rish.na.

61.  All those who from old age or some grievous calamity are
unable (to perform worship) should make over the (image or
ala-grma stone) of K.rish.na to the charge of some other
devotee (able to carry on the proper services), and should
themselves act to the best of their ability.

62.  An image (or la-grma) of K.rish.na, given by a religious
leader (__rya__), or consecrated by him, should be worshipped,
but to other images it is sufficient to make obeisance.

63.  Every day all my followers should go to the temple of God in
the evening, and there loudly repeat the names of the lord of
Rdhik.

64.  The story of his exploits should be related as well as heard
with the greatest reverence, and on festivals hymns in praise of
K.rish.na should be sung accompanied by musical instruments.

65.  In this manner all my followers should every day perform
religious duties.  Moreover, they should study works both in
Sansk.rit and in the popular dialects, according to their mental
abilities.

66.  Whatever individual is appointed to any office, he should be
so appointed with strict regard to his qualifications, after due
consideration, and never in any other way.

67.  Let every one always provide his own servants with food and
clothing in the most suitable manner, and according to his own
pecuniary means.

68.  In conversation every person should be addressed conformably
to his character (or qualities), and suitably to time and place,
and not in any other manner.

69.  By all well-conducted persons due deference must be shown to
a religious guide, a king, an elder, an ascetic, a learned man,
and one that practises austerities, by rising from the seat and
so forth.

70.  No man should sit down on the ground in the presence of a
religious preceptor, a god, or king, or in a (solemn) assembly,
in such a (disrespectful) attitude as to make one foot rest on
the thigh, or with a cloth tied round the (waist and) knees.

71.  A controversial discussion should never be carried on with a
religious teacher (__rya__).  He is to be honoured with gifts
of food, money, clothes, and with all other things according to
ability.

72.  When any of my disciples hear of his arrival, they should
immediately show their respect by advancing to meet him, and when
he departs, they should accompany him as far as the confines of
the village.

73.  If an act, attended with large recompense, be opposed to
religious duty, that act ought not to be committed; for religious
duty (when performed) confers all desired objects.

74.  An unrighteous act that may have been committed by great
persons in former times must never be held (worthy of imitation);
but their virtuous conduct only is to be imitated.

75.  Let not the secrets of any one be ever anywhere divulged,
the neglect (vyatikrama) of proper respect (for those deserving
of reverence) should never be made, (as if all were to be looked
at) with an equal eye (of esteem).

76.  All my disciples should practise special religious
observances during the four special months (beginning with
sh.dha).  But those who are sickly need only practise the same
in the one month of rva.na only.

77.  Reading and listening to the exploits of Vish.nu, singing
his praises, solemn worship, repetition of his mantra ("Great
K.rish.na is my refuge"), recitation of the hymn of praise
(__i.e.__ of the thousand names of Vish.nu), reverential
circumambulations (from left to right with the right side towards
the object adored),

78.  Prostration with the eight members (of the body) these are
considered the best religious observances; any one of these ought
to be performed with special devotion.

79.  The fasts of all the eleventh days (of the waxing and waning
moon) should be carefully observed; also of the birthdays of
K.rish.na; and of the night of iva (__iva-rtri__) with
rejoicings during the day.

80.  On a fast-day sleeping by day should most carefully be
avoided, since by such sleep the merit of fasting is lost to men,
quite as much as by sexual intercourse.

81.  Whatever appointed order of religious fasts and festivals
(vrata and utsava) was enjoined by r Vi.th.thalea
(Vi.th.thala-natha), who was the son of r Vallabhrya, the
most eminent of Vaish.navas.

82.  Having conformed to that order, all religious fasts and
festivals should be observed accordingly; and the form of
worshipping K.rish.na directed by him (Vi.th.thalea) should be
adopted.

83.  A pilgrimage to the Trthas, or holy places, of which
Dvrik (K.rish.na's city in Gujart) is the chief, should be
performed according to rule.  Love and Charity should be shown
towards the poor by all, according to ability.

84.  Vish.nu, iva, Ga.na-pati (Ga.nea), Prvat, and the Sun,
these five deities should be honoured with worship by my
followers.  [Footnote: It is evident from this verse, as from
verse 47, that although Vaish.navas give preferential worship to
Vish.nu, they are really Pantheists in the sense of honouring
other deities, as manifestations of the Supreme Being.  It may be
observed that although five deities are here mentioned, Ga.napati
and Prvat are connected with iva, as the Sun is with Vish.nu.]

85.  When at any place a calamity is caused by a demon or by any
similar cause, the charm called Nrya.na should be recited or
the mantra of Hanumn should be muttered, but not the mantra of
any inferior god less esteemed.

86.  On the occurrence of eclipses of the sun and moon, all my
followers should immediately suspend their other business, and,
having purified themselves, should make repetition of the (eight-
syllabled) mantra of K.rish.na.

87.  When the eclipse has passed off, they should bathe with
their clothes on, and those who are householders should
distribute gifts according to their ability.  Other persons (who
have no worldly means) should engage in the worship of the
supreme Lord (Vish.nu).

88.  Those followers of mine who belong to the four classes
should observe, in conformity with the stras, the rules in
regard to the contraction of impurity through births and deaths,
according to the degree of kinship.

89.  Brhmans should possess tranquillity of mind, self-
restraint, forbearance, contentment and similar virtues.
Kshatriyas (or the soldier caste) should be remarkable for
bravery, fortitude, and the like qualities.

90.  Vaiyas (or the agricultural and commercial caste) should
occupy themselves in mercantile pursuits, money-lending, and the
like.  dras (or the servile class) should be employed in
serving the twice-born, etc.

91.  The twice-born should perform at the proper seasons, and
according to their means--each according to his own domestic
rules--the twelve purificatory rites [Footnote: Of these only six
are now generally performed, viz.:--1, the birth-ceremony, or
touching the tongue of a new-born infant with clarified butter,
etc.; 2, the name-giving ceremony on the tenth day; 3, tonsure;
4, induction into the privileges of the twice-born, by
investiture with the sacred thread; 5, solemn return home from
the house of a preceptor after completing the prescribed course
of study; 6, marriage.  See __Indian Wisdom__, p. 246.]
(__sanskra__), the (six) daily duties [Footnote: The six daily
duties (called Nitya-karman), according to Parara, are:--1,
bathing; 2, morning and evening prayer (sandhy); 3, repetition
of sacred texts; 4, offerings to fire (homa); 5, worship of
ancestors; 6, worship of the gods.  The six daily acts enjoined
by Manu are different.  See __Indian Wisdom__, p. 244.], and the
raddha offerings to the spirits of departed ancestors.

92.  If intentionally or unintentionally any sin, great or small,
be committed, the proper penance must be performed according to
ability.

93.  The Vedas, the Vednta-stras of Vyasa, the Bhgavata-
pur.na and the thousand names of Vish.nu in the Mahbhrata,

94.  The Bhagavad-gt and the precepts of Vidura, the Vsudeva-
mhtmya from the Vaish.nava-kha.n.da of the Skanda-Pur.na,

95.  And the Sm.riti of Yj"navalkya, which is one of the Dharma-
stras, these eight sacred books are approved by me as
authorities.  [Footnote: I commend this list to the attention of
those European scholars who wish to be guided by Indian
authorities in determining the real "sacred books" of India.]

96.  All my twice-born disciples who wish good to themselves
should recite these sacred books and hear them recited.

97.  In deciding questions of ancient usage (ra), or practice,
or penance, the code of Yj"navalkya, with its commentary the
Mitkshar, should be taken (as the best authority).

98.  The tenth and fifth books of the Bhgavata Pur.na are to be
regarded as having the preeminence over all the other sacred
books for the understanding of the glory of K.rish.na.

99.  The tenth and fifth books of the Bhgavata Pur.na and the
code of Yj"navalkya are respectively my Bhakti-stra (manual of
faith), Yoga-stra (manual of devotion), and Dharma-stra
(manual of law).

100.  As a treatise on the soul, the commentary on the Bhagavad-
Gt as well as that on the rraka-Stras of Vysa, made by
Rmnujrya, commends itself to my approval.

101.  Whatever precepts in these sacred books have for their
subject the excessive exaltation of K.rish.na and of Justice
(V.risha), of faith and of indifference to the world--

102.  Such precepts should be regarded as taking precedence over
all others.  Their essential doctrine is that devotion to
K.rish.na should be joined with the performance of duty.

103.  Duty (__dharma__) is that good practice which is enjoined
both by the Veda (ruti) and by the law (Sm.riti) founded on the
Veda.  Devotion (__bhakti__) is intense love for K.rish.na,
accompanied with a due sense of his glory.

104.  Indifference to worldly objects means absence of
satisfaction in any object except K.rish.na.  True knowledge
consists in discriminating rightly between the nature of the
personal soul (jiva), of the external world (My), and of the
Supreme Being (a).

105.  The personal soul dwells in the heart.  It is as subtle as
an atom; it is all thought; it has the faculty of knowledge; it
is ascertained to be constantly pervading the whole body
(__i.e.__ the three corporeal envelopes kra.na, skshma, and
sthla) by its power of perception; it is characterized by
indivisibility and the like.

106.  The external world (My) is identical with the energizing
power of K.rish.na.  It is composed of the three Gu.nas; it is
darkness; it is to be understood as the cause of the soul's
having such ideas in regard to the body, and the things relating
to the body, as are conveyed by the expressions I, mine, and the
like.

107.  He who abides in the living personal soul in the character
of an internal monitor, as the personal soul dwells in the heart,
he is to be considered as the Self-existent Supreme Being, the
Rewarder of all actions.

108.  That Being, known by various names--such as the glorious
K.rish.na, Param Brahma, Bhagavn, Purushottama.h--the cause of
all manifestations, is to be adored by us as our one chosen
deity.

109.  He, together with Rdh, should be regarded as the Supreme
Lord, under the name of Rdh-K.rish.na.  With Rukmi.n and Ram
he is known as Lakshm-Nrya.na.

110.  When joined with Arjuna, he is known by the name of Nara-
Nrya.na; when associated with Bala-bhadra ( = Bala-rma), or
any other divine personage, he is called Ram-K.rish.na and so
on.

111.  Those devoted (female companions of the god) Rdh and his
other (consorts) are in some places represented at his side.  In
other places (their images do not appear, because) they are
supposed to be one with his body and he with theirs.

112.  On no account let it be supposed that difference in forms
makes any difference in the identity of the deity.  For the two-
armed K.rish.na may exhibit himself with four arms (or eight, or
a thousand, or any number of arms).

113.  Towards him alone ought all faith and worship (bhakti) to
be directed by every human being on earth in every possible
manner.  Nothing else, except such (faith), is able to procure
salvation.

114.  The best result of the virtues of those who possess good
qualities is faith in K.rish.na and association with holy men;
without these, even persons who know (the stras) go downwards
(towards a lower state).

115.  Meditation should be directed towards K.rish.na, his
incarnations and their images, but not towards living men, nor
(inferior) gods, etc., nor devotees, nor (even) those who
(merely) have knowledge of Brahma.

116.  Having perceived, by abstract meditation, that the Spirit
or Self is distinct from its three bodies (viz. the gross, subtle
and causal bodies), and that it is a portion of the one Spirit of
the Universe (Brahma), every man ought to worship K.rish.na by
means of that (self) at all times.

117.  The tenth book of the Bhgavata-Pur.na should be listened
to reverentially, and learned men should read it daily or (if
frequent reading is impossible, at least) once a year.

118.  The repetition (of the Bhgavata), as well as of the
thousand names of Vish.nu, etc., should be performed as far as
possible in a pure place (such as the precincts of a temple); for
(such repetition) causes the accomplishment of desired objects.

119.  On the occurrence of any disaster caused by the elements
(such as a flood or fire), or when any human calamity or sickness
takes place, a man should be wholly occupied in striving to
preserve himself and other people and in nothing else.

120.  Religious usages, business transactions and penances,
should be adapted to country, time, age, property, rank and
ability.

121.  The (philosophical) doctrine approved by me is the
Viish.tdvaita (of Rmnuja) [Footnote: This verse proves that in
their philosophical ideas the Svmi-Nrya.na sect are followers of
the Rmnuja sect.  Compare verse 100.], and the desired heavenly
abode is Goloka.  There to worship K.rish.na, and be united with
him as the Supreme Soul of the Universe, is to be considered
salvation (Mukti).

122.  These that have been specified are the general duties,
applicable to all my followers, whether male or female.  Now I am
about to enumerate the special duties.

123.  The two sons of my elder and younger brothers (viz.
Ayodhy-prasda and Raghu-vra) ought never to impart instruction
to any women except their nearest relations.

124.  They ought never to touch or converse with any women in any
place whatever.  Cruelty should never be shown towards any
person.  A deposit belonging to another should never be taken
charge of.

125.  In business matters no one should stand security for any
other person.  In passing through a time of distress it is right
to ask for alms, but debts should not be contracted.

126.  One should not sell corn bestowed by one's own disciples;
having given away old corn, new corn is to be bought.  That is
not called a sale.

127.  On the fourth day of the light-half of the month Bhdra,
the worship of Ga.nea should be performed, and on the fourteenth
of the dark-half of vina, Hanumn should be worshipped.

128.  Those two sons (of my brothers, viz. Ayodhy-prasda and
Raghu-vra), who have been appointed as spiritual guides to guard
the religious interests of my followers, should initiate all
desirous of obtaining salvation (in the use of the mantra of
K.rish.na).

129.  They should cause each of their disciples to continue
steadfast in his own appointed duty.  Honour should be paid to
holy men, and the sacred stras should be reverently repeated.

130.  Worship of Lakshm-Nrya.na, and other forms of K.rish.na
that have been set up and consecrated by me in the great temples,
should be performed with the proper ceremonies.

131.  Any one who may come to the temple of K.rish.na to ask for
a gift of food (cooked or uncooked) should be received with
respect, and food given to him according to ability.

132.  Having established a school for giving instruction, some
learned Brhman should be appointed over it.  True knowledge
should be promoted throughout the world, for that is an act of
great merit.

133.  The two wives of these (sons of my brothers), with the
permission of their respective husbands, should initiate females
only (eva) in the Mantra of K.rish.na.

134.  They should never touch or speak to other males than their
nearest relations; nor should they ever show their faces to them.

135.  My male followers who are householders should never touch
widows unless they are their own near relatives.

136.  They should not remain alone in any private place with a
youthful mother, sister or daughter, except in a time of
distress.  Nor should a wife be given away (to another man).

137.  No attachment should on any account be formed with a woman
who in any transactions has been brought into connexion with the
king of the country.

138.  When a guest has arrived at a house, he should be honoured
by those (who live in it) with food and other things according to
ability.  Offerings to the Gods and the Pit.ris (at the Devat-
tarpa.na and Pit.ri-tarpa.na and rddha ceremonies) should be
made according to right usage and according to one's means.

139.  It is the duty of my disciples, as long as they live and
according to their ability, to honour with faithful attention
their father, mother, spiritual preceptor, and any one affected
with sickness.

140.  Every person should, according to his ability, carry on
some occupation suitable to his caste and religious order.  Those
that live by agriculture should not allow a bull to be gelded.

141.  Provisions and money should be laid by according to
circumstances and time; and those that keep cattle should store
up as much hay as these animals may need for their consumption.

142.  If a man can himself attend to the proper feeding of cows
and other animals with hay and water, then only he may keep them,
otherwise he must not do so.

143.  No business in regard to giving or receiving land or
property should ever be transacted even with a son or friend,
without a written deed attested by witnesses.

144.  When any pecuniary transactions connected with giving away
a girl in marriage have to be transacted for one's self or
another person, the money to be delivered over should not be
settled by verbal agreement, but only by a written contract
attested by witnesses.

145.  A man's expenditure ought always to be in proportion to his
income.  Otherwise it is certain that great misery will arise.

146.  Every day one should take note of one's income and
expenditure in the regular business of life, and write them down
with one's own hand.

147.  My followers should assign a tithe of the grain, money,
etc., acquired by their own occupation or exertions, to
K.rish.na, and the poor should give a twentieth part.

148.  The due performance of fasts, of which the eleventh-day
fasts are the principal, should be effected according to the
stras and one's ability; for this will lead to the attainment
of desired objects.

149.  Every year in the month rva.na one should perform, or
cause others to perform, cheerfully the worship of iva with the
leaves of the Bilva-tree, etc.

150.  Neither money, nor utensils, nor ornaments, nor clothes
should be borrowed for use (on festive occasions) from one's own
spiritual preceptor, or from the temple of K.rish.na.

151.  While going to do homage to great K.rish.na, to a spiritual
preceptor, or to a holy man, food should not be accepted from
others on the road, or at the places of pilgrimage; for such food
takes away religious merit.

152.  The full amount of promised wages should be paid to a
workman.  Payment of a debt is never to be kept secret.  Let no
one have any dealings with wicked men.

153.  If through great distress caused by a famine, by enemies,
or by (the oppression of) a king, any danger of destruction
arises anywhere to character, wealth or life,

154.  The wise among my followers should at once quit even their
own native country, and having gone to another, let them reside
there happily.

155.  Wealthy householders should perform those sacrifices in
honour of Vish.nu which entail no killing of animals.  Brhmans
and holy men (Sdhus) should be fed on festival days at sacred
places of pilgrimage.

156.  They should observe the great festivals in honour of the
Deity in the temples, and should distribute various gifts among
Brhmans who are deserving objects (of generosity).

157.  Kings who are my followers should govern all their subjects
in accordance with the law (laid down in the Dharma-stras), and
should protect them as if they were their children, and should
establish the observance of proper duties throughout the whole
land.

158.  They should be well acquainted with the circumstances of
their kingdom; as, for example, with the seven Angas (viz. the
duties of the sovereign, minister, ally, treasury, territory,
fortresses and army); the four Upyas (viz. conciliation, sowing
dissension, bribing, and punishing); the six Gu.nas (viz. peace,
war, marching, sitting encamped, dividing the forces, having
recourse to an ally for protection); and the places of resort to
which spies should be sent.  They should also make themselves
acquainted with the men who are skilled in legal procedure, and
with all the court functionaries, observing by the right signs
whether any ought to be punished or not.  [Footnote: With
reference to this verse compare Manu's directions to Kings (Books
vii. and viii.), and the precepts in the Vigraha chapter of the
Hitopadea.]

159.  Wives should honour their husbands as if they were gods,
and never offend them with improper language, though they be
diseased, indigent, or imbecile.  [Footnote: Compare Manu, v. 154.]

160.  No communication, even though arising naturally
(__shajika__), should be held with any other man who may be
possessed of beauty, youth and good qualities.

161.  A chaste woman should not allow her navel, thighs, or
breasts to be seen by males; nor should she remain without an
upper garment (anuttary), nor should she look at (the antics
of) buffoons, nor associate with an immodest woman.

162.  A wife while her husband is absent in a foreign country
should wear neither ornaments nor fine clothes; she ought not to
frequent other people's houses, and should abstain from laughing
and talking with other women.

163.  Widows should serve the God K.rish.na with minds intent on
him as their only husband; they should live under the control of
their father, or other male members of the family, and never in
independence.

164.  They must never at any time touch any men except their
nearest relations, and when young they should never without
necessity engage in conversation with youthful men.

165.  If an infant male-child touch them, no blame attaches to
them, any more than from contact with a dumb animal; nor if they
are compelled from necessity to talk with or touch an old man.

166.  Instruction in any science should not be received by them
from any man except from their nearest relations.  They should
frequently emaciate their bodies by vows and fasts.

167.  They should never give away to others the money which is
required for their own support.  That only must be given away
which they have in excess.

168.  They should eat only one meal a day, and should sleep on
the ground; they should never look at (animals) engaged in sexual
acts.

169.  They must never wear the dress of a married woman, nor of a
female ascetic, nor of a mendicant, nor any unbecoming attire.

170.  They should neither associate with nor touch a woman who
has been guilty of procuring abortion; nor should they either
converse about, or hear stories of the loves of the male sex.

171.  Except in times of distress widows who are young should
never remain alone in secret places along with men, even with
their own relatives, if youthful.

172.  They should never join in the frolics practised at the Hol
festival, nor should they put on ornaments or finely woven
clothes composed of cotton or metal threads.

173.  Neither wives nor widows ought ever to bathe without
wearing clothes.  No woman should ever conceal the first
appearance of her monthly periods.

174.  A woman at that season should not for an interval of three
days touch any human being, clothes, etc.; nor ought she to do so
till she has bathed on the fourth day.

175.  Those of my followers who have taken the vow of Naish.thika
Brahmars (that is, of perpetual celibacy and chastity) must
not knowingly either touch or converse with or look at women.

176.  They should never talk or listen to conversations about
women, and they should not perform their ablutions or other
religious rites at places where women pass backwards and
forwards.

177.  They should never knowingly touch or look at even the
pictures or wooden images of women, unless they be the
representations of goddesses.

178.  They should neither draw any likeness of a woman, nor touch
her clothes.  They must never knowingly look even at animals
engaged in sexual acts.

179.  They should neither touch nor look at a male dressed up as
a woman; nor should they sing the praises of the Deity with a
view to being heard by women.

180.  They should pay no attention to the command of even their
spiritual preceptor if likely to lead them to a breach of their
vow of chastity.  They should continue steadfast, contented, and
humble-minded.

181.  When a woman insists on forcing herself near them, they
should immediately try to keep her off by expostulating with her,
and (if she still approaches) by reproaching her.

182.  In cases where their own lives, or those of women, are in
jeopardy, they may be allowed contact or conversation with women,
such contact being necessary for the saving of life.

183.  They should not anoint their lips with oil.  They should
not carry weapons.  They should not dress themselves in
unbecoming costume.  They should subdue the sense of taste.

184.  If in the house of any Brhman the meals are cooked and
served up by a woman, they should not go there to ask for food,
but should ask for it at some other house.

185.  They should constantly repeat the Vedas and stras, and
serve their spiritual preceptor.  They must shun the society of
women, and of men who are fond of women.

186.  He who is by birth a Brhman should on no account drink
water from a leathern vessel; nor should he ever eat garlic,
onions, etc.

187.  Nor must he eat food without having first performed his
ablutions, the Sandhy service, repetition of the Gyatri, the
worship of Vish.nu, and the Vaivadeva ceremony.  [Footnote: This
ceremony, which partly consists in throwing portions of food into
the fire, before dinner, as an offering to all the deities, will
be fully described in my new work on "Religious Thought and Life
in India," to be published by Mr. Murray.]

188.  All who are Sdhus are bound, just like those who have made
a vow of perpetual celibacy, to avoid associating with women, or
with men who are fond of women, and should subdue their (six)
internal enemies (lust, anger, avarice, infatuation, pride, and
envy).

189.  They should subjugate all the senses, more especially the
sense of taste; they should neither lay by a store of property
themselves, nor make others do so for them.

190.  They must not take charge of any one's deposit, they should
never relax their firmness, nor allow a woman to enter their
abodes at any time.  [Footnote: We may notice that there is no
little repetition in this Book of instructions, especially in
enforcing the duty of keeping clear of all feminine seductions.]

191.  Except at a time of distress, they should never go anywhere
by night without a companion, nor should they travel to any place
singly.

192.  They should not use a costly variegated cloth, or one dyed
with kusumbha, or dyed in any other way; or any expensive cloth,
though freely presented to them by another.

193.  They should not go to the houses of householders unless for
the purpose of asking alms, or for being present at an assembly.
They should not spend time uselessly without devoting any of it
to the worship of the Deity.

194.  To the abode of a householder in which only males are
employed for serving up the cooked food, and where no woman is to
be seen--

195.  To the house of such a householder only should my Sdhus
resort for participation in a meal, otherwise they should ask for
uncooked food, and prepare it themselves.

196.  All my holiest sages should conduct themselves in the same
manner as Bharata, son of .Rishabha, the idiot Brhman (Ja.da-
vipra), did in ancient times.  [Footnote: The story is told in
Vish.nu-pur.na, ii. 13.  He feigned idiocy, that he might not be
troubled with worldly society and might so give his undivided
attention to devotional exercises.]

197.  Those holy men (Sdhus) who are Brahmars should
diligently abstain from eating or using betel-leaves, opium,
tobacco (tamla), etc.

198.  They should never accept a meal given on the performance of
the Sa__n__skra ceremonies, beginning with that of conception;
[Footnote: See note to verse 91.] nor on performing the rddha
ceremony at death, nor at that performed on the 12th day after
decease.

199.  They should never sleep during the day, unless afflicted
with sickness, etc.  They should never gossip about local
matters, nor intentionally listen to such gossip.

200.  They should not lie down on a bedstead except when
suffering from illness or other affliction, and should be
guileless and straightforward in their behaviour towards other
Sdhus.

201.  They should patiently bear abusive language, or even blows
from evil-minded persons, and wish good to (them in return).

202.  They should not undertake the work of a go-between or
informer, or spy; they should never show selfishness or
partiality towards their relations.

203.  Thus I have specified in a summary manner the general
duties of all.  Those who desire more particular instructions
must refer to the sacred books handed down by tradition.

204.  Having myself extracted the essence of an the sacred
strs, I have written this Directory, which leads men to the
attainment of desired objects.

205.  Hence it is incumbent on my followers, having their minds
well controlled, to conduct themselves in conformity with its
precepts, and not according to their own wills.

206.  Those males and females of my disciples who will act
according to these directions shall certainly obtain the four
great objects of human desires (viz. __Dharma__, religious merit;
__Artha__, wealth; __Kma__, pleasure; and __Moksha__, final
beatitude).

207.  Those who will not act according to these (directions)
shall be considered by my male and female followers as excluded
from communion with my sect.

208.  My followers should daily read this Book of directions, and
those who do not know how to read should listen to others reading
it.

209.  But in the absence of a reader (vaktrabhve), worship
should be paid to it every day, and it should be honoured with
the greatest reverence as my word and my representative.

210.  This Directory should only be given to those persons who
are endowed with a nature of the divine type; never to a man
possessing a nature of the demoniacal type.  [Footnote: The
Pur.nas divide all men into two classes: those whose nature is
divine, and those whose nature is demoniacal.]

211.  This Book of directions, bringing welfare (to all who study
it), was completed on the first day of the season of spring in
the year 1882 of the era of Vikramditya.  ( = A.D. 1826).

212.  May K.rish.na, the remover of the sufferings of his
worshippers, the maintainer of devotion, accompanied with the
performance of proper duties, the bestower of the desires of the
heart, grant us blessings of all kinds!




End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Siksha-Patri of the Swami-Narayana
Sect, by Professor Monier Williams (Trans.)





Produced by Stan Goodman and PG Distributed Proofreaders




SOUTHERN LIGHTS AND SHADOWS

Harper's Novelettes

Edited By
William Dean Howells
And
Henry Mills Alden

1907



Table of Contents


Grace MacGowan Cooke
THE CAPTURE OF ANDY PROUDFOOT

Abby Meguire Roach
THE LEVEL OF FORTUNE

Alice MacGowan
PAP OVERHOLT

Mrs. B.F. Mayhew
IN THE PINY WOODS

William L. Sheppard
MY FIFTH IN MAMMY

Sarah Barnwell Elliott
AN INCIDENT

M.E.M. Davis
A SNIPE HUNT

J.J. Eakins
THE COURTSHIP OF COLONEL BILL

Maurice Thompson
THE BALANCE OF POWER




Introduction

The most noticeable characteristic of the extraordinary literary
development of the South since the Civil War is that it is almost entirely
in the direction of realism. A people who, up to that time, had been so
romantic that they wished to naturalize among themselves the ideals and
usages of the Walter Scott ages of chivalry, suddenly dropped all that, and
in their search for literary material could apparently find nothing so good
as the facts of their native life. The more "commonplace" these facts the
better they seemed to like them. Evidently they believed that there was a
poetry under the rude outside of their mountaineers, their slattern country
wives, their shy rustic men and maids, their grotesque humorists, their
wild religionists, even their black freedmen, which was worth more than the
poetastery of the romantic fiction of their fathers. In this strong faith,
which need not have been a conscious creed, the writers of the New South
have given the world sketches and studies and portraits of the persons and
conditions of their peculiar civilization which the Russians themselves
have not excelled in honesty, and hardly in simplicity. To be sure, this
development was on the lines of those early humorists who antedated the
romantic fictionists, and who were often in their humor so rank, so wild,
so savage, so cruel, but the modern realism has refined both upon their
matter and their manner. Some of the most artistic work in the American
short-story, that is to say the best short-story in the world, has been
done in the South, so that one may be reasonably sure of an artistic
pleasure in taking up a Southern story. One finds in the Southern stories
careful and conscientious character, rich local color, and effective
grouping, and at the same time one finds genuine pathos, true humor, noble
feeling, generous sympathy. The range of this work is so great as to
include even pictures of the more conventional life, but mainly the writers
keep to the life which is not conventional, the life of the fields, the
woods, the cabin, the village, the little country town. It would be easier
to undervalue than to overvalue them, as we believe the reader of the
admirable pieces here collected will agree.

W.D.H.




The Capture of Andy Proudfoot


By GRACE MACGOWAN COOKE

A dry branch snapped under Kerry's foot with the report of a toy pistol. He
swore perfunctorily, and gazed greedily at the cave-opening just ahead. He
was a bungling woodsman at best; and now, stalking that greatest of all big
game, man, the blood drummed in his ears and his heart seemed to slip a cog
or two with every beat. He stood tense, yet trembling, for the space in
which a man might count ten; surely if there were any one inside the
cave--if the one whose presence he suspected were there--such a noise would
have brought him forth. But a great banner of trumpet-creeper, which hid
the opening till one was almost upon it, waved its torches unstirred except
by the wind; the sand in the doorway was unpressed by any foot.

Kerry began to go forward by inches. He was weary as only a town-bred man,
used to the leisurely patrolling of pavements, could be after struggling
obliquely up and across the pathless flank of Big Turkey Track Mountain,
and then climbing to this eyrie upon Old Yellow Bald--Old Yellow, the peak
that reared its "Bald" of golden grass far above the ranges of The Big and
Little Turkey Tracks.

"Lord, how hungry I am!" he breathed. "I bet the feller's got grub in
there." He had been out two days. He was light-headed from lack of food; at
the thought of it nervous caution gave way to mere brute instinct, and he
plunged recklessly into the cave. Inside, the sudden darkness blinded him
for a moment. Then there began to be visible in one corner a bed of bracken
and sweet-fern; in another an orderly arrangement of tin cans upon a shelf,
and the ashes of a fire, where sat a Dutch oven. The sight of this last
whetted Kerry's hunger; he almost ran to the shelf, and groaned as he found
the first can filled with gunpowder, the next with shot, and the third
containing some odds and ends of string and nails.

He had knelt to inspect a rude box, when a little sound caused him to turn.
In the doorway was a figure which raised the hair upon his head, with a
chilly sensation at its roots--a tall man, with a great mane of black locks
blowing unchecked about his shoulders. He stood turned away from Kerry,
having halted in the doorway as though to take a last advantage of the
outer daylight upon some object of interest to him before entering. He was
examining one of his own hands, and a little shivering moan escaped him. A
rifle rested in the hollow of his arm; Kerry could see the outline of a big
navy-pistol in his belt; and as the man shifted, another came to view;
while the Irishman's practised eye did not miss the handle of a long knife
in its sheath. It went swiftly through his mind that those who sent him on
this errand should have warned him of the size of the quarry. Suddenly,
almost without his own volition, he found himself saying: "I ask your
pardon. I was dead beat an' fair famished, an' I crawled in here to--"

The tall figure in the doorway turned like a thing on a pivot; he did not
start, nor spin round, as a slighter or more nervous person might have
done; and a strange chill fell upon Kerry's heat when the man, whom he
recognized as that one he had come to seek, faced him. The big, dark eyes
looked the intruder up and down; what their owner thought of him, what he
decided concerning him, could no more be guessed than the events of next
year. In a full, grave voice, but one exceedingly gentle, the owner of the
cave repaired the lack of greeting.

"Howdy, stranger?" he said. "I never seen you as I come up, 'count o'
havin' snagged my hand on this here gun."

He came toward Kerry with the bleeding member outstretched. Now was the
Irishman's time--by all his former resolutions, by the need he had for that
money reward--to deftly handcuff the outlaw. What he did was to draw the
other toward the daylight, examine the hand, which was torn and lacerated
on the gun-hammer, and with sundry exclamations of sympathy proceed to bind
it up with strips torn from his own handkerchief.

"Snagged!" he echoed, as he noted how the great muscle of the thumb was
torn across. "I don't see how you ever done that on a gun-hammer. I've
nursed a good bit--I was in Cuby last year, an' I was detailed for juty in
the hospital more'n half my time," he went on, eagerly. "This here hand,
it's bad, 'cause it's torn. Ef you had a cut o' that size, now, you
wouldn't be payin' no 'tention to it. The looks o' this here reminds me o'
the tear one o' them there Mauser bullets makes--Gawd! but they rip the men
up shockin'!" He rambled on with uneasy volubility as he attended to the
wound. "You let me clean it, now. It'll hurt some, but it'll save ye
trouble after while. You set down on the bed. Where kin I git some water?"

"Thar's a spring round the turn in the cave thar--they's a go'd in it."

But Kerry took one of the tin cans, emptied and rubbed it nervously,
talking all the while--talking as though to prevent the other from
speaking, and with something more than the ordinary garrulity of the nurse.
"I got lost to-day," he volunteered, as he cleansed the wound skilfully and
drew its ragged lips together. "Gosh! but you tore that thumb up! You won't
hardly be able to do nothin' with that hand fer a spell. Yessir! I got
lost--that's what I did. One tree looks pretty much like another to me; and
one old rock it's jest the same as the next one. I reckon I've walked
twenty mile sence sunup."

He paused in sudden panic; but the other did not ask him whence he had
walked nor whither he was walking. Instead, he ventured, in his serious
tones, as the silence grew oppressive: "You're mighty handy 'bout this sort
o' thing. I reckon I'll have a tough time here alone till that hand heals."

"Oh, I'll stay with you a while," Kerry put in, hastily. "I ain't a-goin'
on, a-leavin' a man in sech a fix, when I ain't got nothin' in particular
to do an' nowheres in particular to go," he concluded, rather lamely.

His host's eyes dwelt on him. "Well, now, that'd be mighty kind in you,
stranger," he began, gently; and added, with the mountaineer's deathless
hospitality, "You're shorely welcome."

In Kerry's pocket a pair of steel handcuffs clicked against each other. Any
moment of the time that he was dressing the outlaw's hand, identifying at
short range a dozen marks enumerated in the description furnished him, he
could have snapped them upon those great wrists and made his host his
prisoner. Yet, an hour later, when the big man had told him of a string of
fish tied down in the branch, of a little cellarlike contrivance by the
spring which contained honeycomb and some cold corn-pone, the two men sat
at supper like brothers.

"Ye don't smoke?" inquired Kerry, commiseratingly, as his host twisted off
a great portion of home-cured tobacco. "Lord! ye'll never know what the
weed is till ye burn it. A chaw'll do when you're in the trenches an'
afraid to show the other fellers where to shoot, so that ye dare not smoke.
Ah-h-h! I've had it taste like nectar to me then; but tobacco's never
tobacco till it's burnt," and the Irishman smiled fondly upon his stumpy
black pipe.

They sat and talked over the fire (for a fire is good company in the
mountains, even of a midsummer evening) with that freedom and abandon which
the isolation, the hour, and the circumstances begot. Kerry had told his
name, his birthplace, the habits and temperament of his parents, his
present hopes and aspirations--barring one; he had even sketched an outline
of Katy--Katy, who was waiting for him to save enough to buy that little
farm in the West; and his host, listening in the unbroken silence of deep
sympathy, had not yet offered even so much as his name.

Then the bed was divided, a bundle of fern and pine boughs being disposed
in the opposite corner of the cave for the newcomer's accommodation. Later,
after good-nights had been exchanged and Kerry fancied that his host was
asleep, he himself stirred, sat up, and being in uneasy need of information
as to whether the cave door should not be stopped in some manner, opened
with a hesitating, "Say!"

"You might jest call me Andy," the deep voice answered, before the
mountain-man negatived the proposition of adding a front door to the
habitation.

Kerry slept again. Mountain air and weariness are drugs potent against a
bad conscience, and it was broad daylight outside the cave when he wakened.
He was a little surprised to find his host still sleeping, yet his
experience told him that the wound was of a nature to induce fever,
followed by considerable exhaustion. As the Irishman lifted his coat from
where he had had it folded into a bundle beneath his head, the handcuffs in
the pocket clicked, and he frowned. He stole across to look at the man who
had called himself Andy, lying now at ease upon his bed of leaves, one
great arm underneath his head, the injured hand nursed upon his broad
breast. Those big eyes which had so appalled Kerry upon a first view
yesterday were closed. The onlooker noted with a sort of wonder how
sumptuous were the fringes of their curtains, long and purple--black, like
the thick, arched brows above. To speak truly, Kerry, although he was a
respectable member of the police force, had the artistic temperament. The
harmony of outline, the justness of proportion in both the face and figure
of the man before him, filled the Irishman with delight; and the splendid
virile bulk of the mountain-man appealed irresistibly to the other's
masculinity. The little threads of silver in the tempestuous black curls
seemed to Kerry but to set off their beauty.

"Gosh! but you're a good-looker!" he muttered. And putting his estimate of
the man's charm into such form as was possible to him, he added, under his
breath, "I'd hate to have seen a feller as you tryin' to court my Katy."

This was the first of many strange days; golden September days they were,
cool and full of the ripened beauty of the departing summer. Kerry's host
taught him to snare woodcock and pheasants--shoot them the Irishman could
not, since the excitement of the thing made him fire wild.

"Now ain't that the very divil!" he would cry, after he had let his third
bird get away unharmed. "Ef I was shootin' at a man, I'd be as stiddy as a
clock. Gad! I'd be cool as an ice-wagon. But when that little old brown
chicken scoots a-scutterin' up out o' the grass like a hummin'-top, it
rattles me." His teacher apparently took no note of the significance
contained in this statement; yet Kerry's very ears were red as it slipped
out, and he felt uneasily for the handcuffs, which no longer clinked in his
pocket, but now lay carefully hidden under his fern bed.

There had been a noon-mark in the doorway of the cave, thrown by the shadow
of a boulder beside it, even before the Irishman's big nickel watch came
with its bustling, authoritative tick to bring the question of time into
the mountains. But the two men kept uncertain hours: sometimes they talked
more than half the night, the close-cropped, sandy poll and the unshorn
crest of Jove-like curls nodding at each other across the fire, then slept
far into the succeeding day; sometimes they were up before dawn and off
after squirrels--with which poor Kerry had no better luck than with the
birds. Every day the Irishman dressed his host's hand; and every day he
tasted more fully the charm of this big, strong, gentle, peaceful nature
clad in its majestic garment of flesh.

"If he'd 'a' been an ugly, common-looking brute, I'd 'a' nabbed him in a
minute," he told himself, weakly. And every day the handcuffs under the
dried fern-leaves lay heavier upon his soul.

On the 20th of September, which Kerry had set for his last day in the cave,
he was moved to begin again at the beginning and tell the big mountaineer
all his affairs.

"Ye see, it's like this," he wound up: "Katy--the best gurrl an' the
purtiest I ever set me two eyes on--she's got a father that'll strike her
when the drink's with him. He works her like a dog, hires her out and takes
every cent she earns. Her mother--God rest her soul!--has been dead these
two years. And now the old man is a-marryin' an' takin' home a woman not
fit for my Katy to be with. I says when I heard of it, says I: `Katy, I'll
take ye out o' that hole. I'll do the trick, an' I'll git the reward, an'
it's married we'll be inside of a month, an' we'll go West.' That's what
brought me up here into the mountains--me that was born, as ye might say,
on the stair-steps of a tenement-house, an' fetched up the same."

Absorbed in the interest of his own affairs, the Irishman did not notice
what revelations he had made. Whether or not this knowledge was new to his
host the uncertain light of the dying fire upon that grave, impassive face
did not disclose.

"An' now," Kerry went on, "I've been thinkin' about Katy a heap in the last
few days. I'm goin' home to her to-morry--home to Philadelphy--goin' with
empty hands. An' I'm a-goin' to say to her, 'Katy, would ye rather take me
jest as I am, out of a job'--fer that's what I'll be when I go
back,--'would ye rather take me so an' wait fer the little farm?' I guess
she'll do it; I guess she'll take me. I've got that love fer her that makes
me think she'll take me. Did ye ever love a woman like that?"--turning
suddenly to the silent figure on the other side of the fire. "Did ye ever
love one so that ye felt like ye could jest trust her, same as you could
trust yourself? It's a--it--well, it's a mighty comfortable thing."

The mountaineer stretched out his injured hand, and examined it for so long
a time without speaking that it seemed as though he would not answer at
all. The wound was healing admirably now; he had made shift to shoot, with
Kerry's shoulder for a rest, and their larder was stocked with game once
more. When he at last raised his head and looked across the fire, his black
eyes were such wells of misery as made the other catch his breath.

Upon the silence fell his big, serious voice, as solemn and sonorous as a
church-bell: "You ast me did I ever love an' trust a woman like that. I
did--an' she failed me. I ain't gwine to call you fool fer sich; you're a
town feller, Dan, with smart town ways; mebby your gal would stick to you,
even ef you was in trouble; but me--"

Kerry made an inarticulate murmur of sympathy.

The voice went on. "You say you're goin' home to her with jest your two
bare hands?" it inquired. "But why fer? You've found your man. What makes
you go back that-a-way?"

Kerry's mouth was open, his jaw fallen; he stared through the smoke at his
host as though he saw him now for the first time. Kerry belongs to a people
who love or hate obviously and openly; that the outlaw should have known
him from the first for a police officer, a creature of prey upon his track,
and should have treated him as a friend, as a brother, appalled and
repelled him.

"See here, Dan," the big man went on, leaning forward; "I knowed what your
arrant was the fust minute I clapped eyes on you. You didn't know whether I
could shoot with my left hand as well as my right--I didn't choose you
should know. I watched fer ye to be tryin' to put handcuffs on me any
minute--after you found my right hand was he'pless."

"Lord A'mighty! You could lay me on my back with your left hand, Andy,"
Kerry breathed.

The big man nodded. "They was plenty of times when I was asleep--or you
thort I was. Why didn't ye do it? Where is they? Fetch 'em out."

Unwilling, red with shame, penetrated with a grief and ache he scarce
comprehended, Kerry dragged the handcuffs from their hiding-place. The
other took them, and thereafter swung them thoughtfully in his strong brown
fingers as he talked.

"You was goin' away without makin' use o' these?" he asked, gently.

Kerry, crimson of face and moist of eye, gulped, frowned, and nodded.

"Well, now," the mountain-man pursued, "I been thinkin' this thing over
sence you was a-speakin'. That there gal o' yourn she's in a tight box.
You're the whitest man I ever run up ag'inst. You've done me better than my
own brothers. My own brothers," he repeated, a look of pain and bitterness
knitting those wonderfully pencilled brows above the big eyes. "Fer my
part, I'm sick o' livin' this-a-way. When you're gone, an' I'm here agin by
my lonesome, I'm as apt as not to put the muzzle o' my gun in my mouth an'
blow the top o' my head off--that's how I feel most o' the time. I tell you
what you do, Dan: you jest put these here on me an' take me down to
Garyville--er plumb on to Asheville--an' draw your money. That'll square up
things fer you an' that pore little gal. What say ye?"

Into Kerry's sanguine face there surged a yet deeper red; his shoulders
heaved; the tears sprang to his eyes; and before his host could guess the
root of his emotion the Irishman was sobbing, furiously, noisily, turned
away, his head upon his arm. The humiliation of it ate into his soul; and
the tooth was sharpened by his own misdeeds. How many times had he looked
at the great, kindly creature across the fire there and calculated the
chances of getting him to Garyville?

Andy's face twisted as though he had bitten a green persimmon. "Aw! Don't
_cry!_" he remonstrated, with the mountaineer's quick contempt for
expressed emotion. "My Lord! Dan, don't--"

"I'll cry if I damn please!" Kerry snorted. "You old fool! Me a-draggin'
you down to Garyville! Me, that's loved you like a brother! An' never had
no thought--an' never had no thought--Oh, hell!" he broke off, at the
bitter irony of the lie; then the sobs broke forth afresh. To deny that he
had come to arrest the outlaw was so pitifully futile.

"So ye won't git the money that-a-way?" Andy's big voice ruminated, and a
strange note of relief sounded in it; a curious gleam leaped into the
sombre eyes. But he added, softly: "Sleep on it, bud; I'll let ye change
your mind in the mornin'."

"You shut your head!" screeched Kerry, fiercely, with a hiccough of
wrenching misery. "You talk to me any more like that, an' I'll lambaste
ye--er try to--big as ye are! Oh, damnation!"

The last night in the cave was one of gusty, moving breezes and brilliant
moonlight, yet both its tenants slept profoundly, after their strange
outburst of emotion. The first gray of dawn found them stirring, and Kerry
making ready for his return journey. Together, as heretofore, they prepared
their meal, then sat down in silence to eat it. Suddenly the mountain-man
raised his eyes, to whose grave beauty the Irishman's temperament responded
like that of a woman, and said, quietly,

"I'm a-goin' to tell ye somethin', an' then I'm a-goin' to show ye
somethin'."

Kerry's throat ached. In these two weeks he had conceived a love for his
big, silent, gentle companion which rivalled even his devotion to Katy. The
thought of leaving him helpless and alone, a common prey of reward-hunters,
the remembrance of what Andy had said concerning his own despair beneath
the terrible pressure of the mountain solitude, were almost more than Kerry
could bear.

"Fust and foremost, Dan," the other began, when the meal was finished, "I'm
goin' to tell ye how come I done what I done. Likely you've hearn tales,
an' likely they was mostly lies. You see, it was this-a-way: Me an' my wife
owned land j'inin'. The Turkey Track Minin' Company they found coal on it,
an' was wishful to buy. Her an' me wasn't wed then, but we was about to be,
an' we j'ined in fer to sell the land an' go West." His brooding eyes were
on the fire; his voice--which had halted before the words "my wife," then
taken them with a quick gulp--broke a little every time he said "she" or
"her." Kerry's heart jumped when he heard the mention of that little
Western farm--why, it might have been in the very locality he and Katy
looked longingly toward.

"That feller they sent down here fer to buy the ground--Dickert was his
name; you've hearn it, I reckon?"

Kerry recognized the murdered man's name. He nodded, without a word, his
little blue eyes helplessly fastened on Andy's eyes.

"Yes, Dickert 'twas. He was took with Euola from the time he put eyes on
her--which ain't sayin' more of him than of any man 'at see her. But a town
feller's hangin' round a mounting-gal hain't no credit to her. Euola she
was promised to me. But ef she hadn't 'a' been, she wouldn't 'a' took no
passin' o' bows an' complyments from that Dickert. I thort the nighest way
out on't was to tell the gentleman that her an' me was to be wed, an' that
we'd make the deeds as man an' wife, an' I done so."

Kerry looked at his host and wondered that any man should hope to tamper
with the affections of her who loved him.

"Wed we was," the mountain-man went on; and an imperceptible pause followed
the words. "We rid down to Garyville to be wed, an' we went from the
jestice's office to the office of this here Dickert. He had a cuss with him
that was no better'n him; an' when it come to the time in the signin' that
our names was put down, an' my wife was to be 'examined privately and
apart'--ez is right an' lawful--ez to whether I'd made her sign or not,
this other cuss steps with her into the hall, an' Dickert turns an' says to
me, 'You git a thousand dollars each fer your land--you an' that woman,' he
says.

"I never liked the way he spoke--besides what he said; an' I says to him,
'The bargain was made fer five thousand dollars apiece,' says I, 'an' why
do we git less?'

"'Beca'se,' says he, a-swellin' up an' lookin' at me red an'
devilish,--'beca'se you take my leavin's--you fool! I bought the land of
you fer a thousand dollars each--an' there's my deed to it, that you jest
signed--I reckon you can read it. Ef I sell the land to the company--it's
none o' your business what I git fer it.'

"Well, I can't read--not greatly. I don't know how I knowed--but I did
know--that he was gittin' from the company the five thousand dollars apiece
that we was to have had. I seen his eye cut round to the hall door, an' I
thort he had that money on him (beca'se he was their agent an' they'd
trusted him so far) fer to pay me and Euola in cash. With that he grabbed
up the deed an' stuffed it into his pocket. Lord! Lord! I could 'a' shook
it out o' him--an' the money too--hit's what I would 'a' done if the fool
had 'a' kep' his mouth shut. But I reckon hit was God's punishment on him
'at he had to go on sayin', 'Yes, you tuck my leavin's in the money, an'
you've tuck my leavin's agin to-day.' Euola was jest comin' into the room
when he said that, an' he looked at her. I hit him." He gazed down the
length of his arm thoughtfully. "I ort to be careful when I hit out, bein'
stronger than most. But I was mad, an' I hit harder than I thort. I reached
over an' grabbed open the table drawer jest fer luck--an' thar was the
money. I tuck it. The other cuss he was down on the floor, sorter
whimperin' an' workin' over this feller Dickert; an' he begun to yell that
I'd killed 'im. With that Euola she gives me one look--white ez paper she
was--an' she says, 'Run, Andy honey. I'll git to ye when I kin.'" The
mountain-man was silent so long that Kerry thought he was done. But he
suddenly said:

"She ketched my sleeve, jest ez I made to start, an' said: 'I'll come,
Andy. Mind, Andy, _I'll come to ye, ef I live_.'" Then there was the
silence of sympathy between the two men.

So that was the history of the crime--a very different history from the
one Kerry had heard.

"Hit's right tetchy business--er has been--a-tryin' to take Andy
Proudfoot," the outlaw continued; "but, Dan, I'd got mighty tired, time you
come. An' Euola--"

Kerry rose abruptly, the memory hot within him of Proudfoot's offer of the
night before. The mountaineer got slowly to his feet.

"They's somethin' I wanted to show ye, too, ye remember," he said. They
walked together down the bluff, to where another little cavern, low and
shallow, hid itself behind huckleberry-bushes. "I kep' the money here,"
Proudfoot said, kneeling in the cramped entrance and delving among the
rocks. He drew out a roll of bills and fingered them thoughtfully.

"The reward, now, hit was fifteen hundred dollars--with what the State an'
company both give, warn't it? Dan, I was mighty proud ye wouldn't have
it--I wanted to give it to ye this-a-way. I don't know as I've got any
rights on Euola's money. I reckon I mought ax you fer to take it to her, ef
so be you could find her. My half--you kin have it, an' welcome."

Fear was in Kerry's heart. "An' what'll you be doin'?" he inquired,
huskily.

"Me?" asked Andy, listlessly. "Euola she's done gone plumb back on me," he
explained. "I hain't heard one word from her sence the trouble, an' I've
got that far I hain't a-keerin' what becomes of me. I like you, Dan; I'd
ruther you had the money--"

"Oh, my Gawd! Don't, Andy," choked the Irishman. "Let me think, man," as
the other's surprised gaze dwelt on him. Up to this time all Kerry's
faculties had been engrossed in what was told him, or that which went on
before his eyes. Now memory suddenly roused in him. The woman he had seen
back at Asheville, the woman who called herself Mandy Greefe, but whom the
police there suspected of being Andy Proudfoot's wife, whom they had twice
endeavored, unsuccessfully, to follow in long, secret excursions into the
mountains. What was the story? What had they said? That she was seeking
Proudfoot, or was in communication with him; that was it! They had warned
Kerry that the woman was mild-looking (he had seen her patient, wistful
face the last thing as he left Asheville), but that she might do him a
mischief if she suspected he was on the trail of her husband. "My Lord! Oh,
my Lord! W'y, old man,--w'y, Andy boy!" he cried, joyously, patting the
shoulder of the big man, who still knelt with the roll of money in his
hands,--"Andy, she's waitin' fer you--she's true as steel! She's ready to
go with you. Yes, an' Dan Kerry's the boy to git ye out o' this under the
very noses o' that police an' detective gang at Asheville. 'Tis you an' me
that'll go together, Andy."

Proudfoot still knelt. His nostrils flickered; his eyes glowed. "Have a
care what you're a-sayin'," he began, in a low, shaking voice. "Euola!
Euola! You've saw me pretty mild; but don't you be mistook by that, like
that feller Dickert was mistook. Don't you lie to me an' try to fool me
'bout her. One o' them fellers I shot had me half-way to Garyville, tellin'
me she was thar--sick--an' sont him fer me."

Kerry laughed aloud. "Me foolin' you!" he jeered. "'Tis a child I've been
in your hands, ye black, big, still, solemn rascal! Here's money a-plenty,
an' you that knows these mountains--the fur side--an' me that knows the
ropes. You'll lend me a stake f'r the West. We'll go together--all four of
us. Oh Lord!" and again tears were on the sanguine cheeks.




The Level of Fortune


BY ABBY MEGUIRE ROACH

She was the ambition of the younger girls and the envy of the less
fortunate. Bessie Hall had _everything_, they said.

Her prettiness, indeed, was chiefly in slender plumpness and bloom. But it
served her purpose as no classic mould would have done. She did not
overestimate it. But she was probably better satisfied with it than with
most of those conditions of her life that people were always telling her
were ideal. They spoke of her as the only child in a way that implied
congratulations on the undivided inheritance--and that reminded her how she
had always wanted a sister. They talked of her idyllic life on a blue-grass
stock-farm--when she was wheedling from her father a winter in Washington.
They envied her often when they had the very thing she wanted--or, at
least, she didn't have it. They enlarged on her popularity, and she
answered, "Oh yes, nice boys, most of them, but--"

She had always said, "_When_ I marry," not "_if_," and had said it much as
she said, "When I grow up." And, yes, she believed in fate: that everybody
who belonged to you would find you out; but--it was only hospitable to
meet them half-way! So her admirers found her in the beginning hopefully
interested, and in the end rather mournfully unconvinced. Her regret seemed
so genuinely on her own account as well as theirs that they usually carried
off a very kind feeling for her. She was equally open to enlistment in any
other proposed diversion. For Bessie lived in a constant state of great
expectation that something really nice would really happen to-morrow. There
was always something wrong to-day.

"It's not fair!" she complained to Guy Osbourne, when he came to tell her
good-by, all in the gray. "I'm positively discriminated against. If _I_
have an engagement, it's sure to rain! And now just when I'm beginning to
be a grown young lady, with a prospect _at last_ of a thoroughly good time,
a war has to break out!"

Her petulance was pretty. Guy laughed. "How disobliging!" he sympathized.
"And how modest!" he added--which the reader may disentangle; Bessie did
not. "_At last!_" he mocked her.

For Bessie Hall, whose community already moved in an orbit around her, and
whose parents had, according to a familiar phrase, an even more
circumscribed course around her little finger--for Bessie Hall to rail at
fate was deliciously absurd, delightfully feminine!

When Bessie was most unreasonable one only wanted to kiss her. Guy's
privileges in that line had passed with the days when he used to pick up
bodily his lithe little playfellow to cross a creek or rain-puddled road.
But to-day seemed pleasantly momentous; it called for the unusual. "I say,
Bibi, when a knight went off to fight, you know, his lady used to give him
a stirrup-cup at good-by. Don't you think it would be really sweet of
you--"

She held off, only to be provoking. She would have thought no more of
kissing Guy than a brother--or she thought she wouldn't. To be sure, she
hadn't for years; there was no occasion; and then, of course, one didn't.
She laughed and shook her head, and retreated laughing. And he promptly
captured her.... She freed herself, suddenly serious. And Guy stood
sobered--sobered not at going to the war, but at leaving her.

"There now, run along."

"Well, good-by." But he lingered. There was nothing more to say, but he
lingered. "Well, good-by. Be good, Bibi."

"It looks as if that was all I'd have a chance to be." The drawl of the
light voice with its rising inflection was so engaging, no one called it
nasal. "And it's so much more difficult and important to be charming!"

He was sobered at leaving her, but he never thought of not going with the
rest. He went, and all the rest. And Bessie found herself, just when nature
had crowned her with womanhood, a princess without a kingdom. To be sure,
living on the border gave her double opportunities, and for contrasting
romances. There were episodes that comforted her with the reflection that
she was not getting wholly out of practice in the arts. And there was real
adventure in flying and secret visits from Guy and the rest--Guy, who was
never again just the same with her; but, for that matter, neither was she
just the same with him. But, on the whole, as she pouted to him afterward,
she wouldn't call that four years' war exactly entertaining!

The Halls personally did not suffer so deeply as their neighbors except
from property loss. All they could afford, and more, they gave to the
South, and the Northern invader took what was left. When there was nothing
left, he hacked the rosewood furniture and made targets of the family
portraits, in the mere wantonness of loot that, as a recriminative
compliment, cannot be laid to the charge of any one period or section. Most
of the farm negroes crossed the river. Funds ran low.

There had been ease and luxury in the family always, and just when Bessie
reached the time to profit by them she remarked that they failed.

Even if the Halls were not in mourning, no one lives through such a time
without feeling the common humanity. But Bessie, though she lingered on the
brink of love as of all the other deeps of life--curious, adventurous, at
once willing and reluctant--was still, in the end, quite steady.

When the war was over, the Halls were poor, on a competence of land run to
waste, with no labor to work it, and no market to sell it. And Mr. Hall,
like so many of his generation, was too hampered by habit and crushed by
reminiscence to meet the new day.

It was the contrast in Guy's spirit that won Bessie. His was indeed the
immemorial spirit of youth--whether it be of the young world, or the young
male, or the young South--to accept the issue of trial by combat and give
loyalty to one proved equally worthy of sword or hand.

"We're whipped," he told her, "and that settles it. Now there's other work
for us than brooding over it. All the same, the South has a future, Bibi,
and that means a future for you and me."

"Not in the manufacture of poetry, I'm afraid," she laughed. "You dropped a
stitch."

She did not seem to take his prowess, either past or to come, very
seriously; and her eyebrows and her inflection went up at the assumption of
the "we" in his plans. But--she listened.

His definiteness was itself effective. She herself did not know what she
wanted. Something was wrong; or rather, everything was. She was finding
life a great bore. But what would be right, she couldn't say, except that
it must be different.

Guy looked sure and seasoned as he poured out his plans; and together with
the maturing tan and breadth from his rough life, there was an
unconquerable boyishness in the lift of his head and the light of his eyes.

"This enthusiasm is truly beautiful!" she teased.

It was, in truth, infectious.

Why! it was love she had wanted. The four years had been so empty--without
Guy.

She went into it alert, receptive, optimistic. But it nettled her that
everybody should be so congratulatory, and nobody surprised. It wasn't what
_she_ would call ideal for two impoverished young aristocrats to start life
on nothing but affection and self-confidence.

It did seem as if the choicest fruit always came to _her_ specked.

"Never mind," Guy encouraged her. "Just give me ten years. It will be a
little hard on you at first, Bibi dear, I know, but it would be harder at
your father's now. And it won't be long!"

There was only one comment of whose intention Bessie was uncertain: "So Guy
is to continue carrying you over the bad places, Bessie?"

Hm! She had been thinking it rather a fine thing for _her_ to do. And that
appealed to her.

"And think what an amusing anecdote it will make after a while, Guy,--how,
with all your worldly goods tied up in a red bandanna, and your wife on
your arm instead of her father's doorstep, you set out to make your
fortune, and to live meanwhile in the City of Un-Brotherly Love!"

But Bessie had the standards of an open-handed people to whom economy was
not a virtue. There had always been on her mother's table for every meal
"salt-risin' light bread" and corn pone or griddle-cakes, half a dozen
kinds of preserves, the staples in proportion. Her mother would have been
humiliated had there been any noticeable diminution in the supply when the
meal was over; and she and the cook would have had a council of war had a
guest failed to eat and praise any single dish.

Bessie had not realized how inglorious their meagreness would be, until
Mrs. Grey, at the daughter's table, grew unctuously reminiscent about the
mother's.

"Dear me!" Guy tried afterward to comfort the red eyelids and tremulous
lips, "do you want a table so full it takes your appetite at sight?"

"I'm afraid I can't joke about disgrace!" Bessie quivered.

"But, Bibi dear, Mrs. Grey is simply behind the times. The _rationale_ of
those enormous meals was not munificence, but that a horde of
house-servants had to be fed at a second table."

Certainly Guy and his good spirits were excellent company. And Bessie came
of a race of women used to gay girlhoods and to settling down thereafter,
as a matter of course, into the best of house-mothers.

But there was a difference between the domestic arts she had been taught as
necessary to the future lady of a large household and the domestic
industries she had to practise. Supervising and doing were not the same.
For her mother, sewing and cooking had been accomplishments; for her they
were work. She had to do things a lady didn't do.

However, she was as fastidious about what she did for herself as about what
was done for her. She was quick and efficient. People said Bessie Osbourne
had the dearest home in town, was the best housekeeper, the most nicely
dressed on nothing. You might know Bessie Hall would have the best of
everything!

And when Bessie began to wonder if that was true, she had entered the last
circle of disappointment.

The fact was that, after the first novelty, things seemed pretty much the
same as before. Bessie Osbourne was not so different from Bessie Hall. She
might have appreciated that as significant; but doubtless she had never
heard the edifying jingle of the unfortunate youth who "wandered over all
the earth" without ever finding "the land where he would like to stay," and
all because he was injudicious enough to take "his disposition with him
everywhere he went." It was as if she had been going in a circle from right
to left, and, after a blare of drums and trumpets and a stirring
"About--face!" she had found herself going in the same circle from left to
right. It all came to the same thing, and that was nothing. Guy was
apparently working hard; but, after all, in real life it seemed one did not
plant the adepts' magic seed that sprouted, grew, bloomed, while you looked
on for a moment. For herself, baking and stitching took all her time,
without taking nearly all her interest, or seeming to matter much when all
was said and done. If she neglected things, they went undone, or some one
else did them; in any case Guy never complained. If she did what came up,
each day was filled with meeting each day's demands. All their lives went
into the means and preparation for living. Other people--Or was it really
any different with them? Nine-tenths of the people nine-tenths of the time
seemed to accomplish only a chance to exist. She had heard women complain
that such was the woman's lot in order that men might progress. But it
struck her very few men worked beyond the provision of present necessities,
either. Was it all a myth, then--happiness, experience, romance? Was this
all there was to life and love? What was the sense, the end? Her
dissatisfaction reproached the Cosmos, grew to that _Weltschmerz_ which is
merely low spirits and reduced vitality, not "an infirmity of growth."

She constantly expected perfection, and all that fell below it was its
opposite extreme, and worthless. She began to suspect herself of being an
exceptional and lofty nature deprived of her dues.

Guy was a little disappointed at her prudent objection to children until
their success was established. Prudence was mere waste of time to his
courage and assurance. And he believed, though without going into the
psychology of the situation, that Bessie would be happier with a child or
two.

"Oh, how can we do any more?" she answered, in her pretty, spoiled way.
"We're trying to cut a two-yard garment out of a one-yard piece now." At
least, she was; and so Guy was.

Well, it wasn't a great matter yet. It is not in the early years of
marriage that that lack is most felt. And Bessie was not very strong; she
never seemed really well any more. She developed a succession of small
ailments, lassitudes, nerves. She dragged on the hand of life, and
complained. The local physician drugged her with a commendable spirit of
optimism and scientific experiment. But the drawl of the light voice with
its rising inflection became distinctly a whine.

She got a way of surprising Guy and upsetting his calculations with
unannounced extravagances. "What's the good of all this drudgery? We're
making no headway, getting nowhere; we might as well have what good we can
as we go along."

There was a negro woman in the kitchen now, and in the sitting-room one of
the new sewing-machines. And Guy, who, so far, had been only excavating for
the cellar of his future business house, was beginning to feel that good
foundation walls were about to start.

But, even when peevish, Bessie had a way of turning up her eyes at him that
reduced him to helplessness and adoration. And she was delicate! "I know,"
he sympathized with her loyally, "it's like trying to work and be jolly
with a jumping tooth; or rather, in your case, with a constant buzzing in
your head."

The jumping tooth was his own simile. The headaches that had begun while he
was soldiering were increasing. He had intermittent periods of numbness in
the lower half of his body. It was annoying to a busy man. He could offer
no explanation, nor could the doctors. "Overwork," they suggested, and
advised the cure that is of no school--"rest." That was "impossible."
Besides, it was all nonsense. He put it aside, went on, kept it from
Bessie.

The end came, as it always does, even after the longest expectation, with a
rush. He was suffering with one of his acute headaches one night, when
Bessie fell asleep beside him. She woke suddenly, with no judgment of time,
with a start of terror, a sense of oppression, or--death?

"Guy!" she screamed.

The strangeness of his answering voice only repeated the stab of fear. She
was on her feet, had made a light....

He was not suffering any more. He was perfectly conscious and rational. But
from the waist down he could not move nor feel.

The doctors came and talked a great deal and said little; they reminded
them that not much was known of this sort of thing; they would be glad to
do what they could....

"You don't mean to say this is permanent? Paralyzed? I? Oh, absurd!" Awful
things happened to other people, of course--scandal, death--but to one's
self--"Oh, it doesn't sound true! It can't be true. Paralyzed? _I_?"

And Bessie wondered why this had been sent on _her_.

The explanation was hit on long afterward, when in one of his campaign
stories Guy mentioned a fall from his horse, with his spine against a rock,
that had laid him unconscious for twenty-two hours.

And so the war, which had been responsible for their starting together with
only a past and a future, was responsible for their having shortly only a
past. Guy was not allowed his ten years.

Though he had now less actual pain, the shock seemed to jar the foundations
of his life, and the sharp change in the habits of an active and vigorous
body seemed to wreck his whole system. For months and months and months he
seemed only a bundle of exposed nerves--that is, where he had any movement
or sensation at all.

Now a past, however escutcheoned and fame-enrolled, is even more starvation
diet than a future of affection and self-confidence. No help was to be had
from either of their homes; it was the day of self-help for all.

Bessie wondered why this had been sent on _her_, but she took a couple of
boarders at once, she sold sponge-cake and beaten biscuit, she got up
classes in bread-making. And Guy stopped her busy passing to draw her hand
to his lips, or watched her with dumb eyes.

Several of her friends, after trying her sewing-machine, then still
something of a novelty, ordered duplicates. Guy suggested as a joke that
she charge the makers a commission.

"The idea of trading on friendship?" Bessie laughed.

"Oh, I don't know," Guy reflected, more seriously. "How about these
boarders, then? That's trading on hospitality."

It was one of those minute flashes of illumination that, multiplied and
collected, become the glow of a new light, the signal of a revolution. The
country was full of them in those days. The old codes were melting in the
heat of change. Standards were fluid. Personally, it ended in Bessie's
selling machines, first in her town, then in neighboring ones.

In the restlessness that youth thinks is aspiration for the ideal,
particularly for the ideal love, is a large element of craving for place
and interest. After her marriage, at least, Bessie might have had enough of
both; but the obvious purpose was too limited to appeal to her. Now two
appetites and the four seasons supplied motive enough for industry. There
was nothing magnificent in this manifest destiny, but it had the advantage
of being imperative and constant. It was no small tax on her acquired
delicacy, but it gave less time for hunting symptoms. It did not answer the
_Whence, Whither, and Why;_ it pointedly changed the subject. Her work
began to carry her out of herself.

"Bibi dear, what a sorry end to all my promises!"

She had been thinking just that herself with a sense of injury and
imposition; and she was used all her life to having people see everything
as she saw it, from her side only. But Guy had just turned over to his few
creditors the hole in the ground into which so far most of his work had
gone. "Bibi dear, what a sorry end to all my plans!" was what she expected
him to say. And what he did say and what he didn't, met surprised in her
mind and surveyed each other.

"Oh, Guy!" she deprecated, suddenly ashamed. For the first time it occurred
to her to wonder why this had been sent on _him_. With a rush of remorseful
sympathy and appreciation, she slipped down beside his chair. "My poor old
boy!"

He clung to her like a drowning man--Guy, who, after the first single cry
at the blow, had been so self-contained (or self-repressed?) through it
all!

She remembered that she had omitted a good many things lately.

"You're tired to-day," he said.

"Yes, I am." She caught at it hurriedly with apologetic self-defence. "I'm
pretty constantly tired lately. And this morning Mrs. Grey was so trying.
She doesn't understand her machine, and she doesn't understand business,
and she was _too_ silly and stupid. I don't wonder you men laugh at us and
don't want us in _your_ affairs!"

"It's all hard on you, Bibi." There was a lump in his voice. It was the
first time he had been able to speak of it.

"Yes;" her own throat was so strained that for a moment she could not go
on. "But," it struck her again, "I don't suppose an unbiased observer would
think it exactly festive for you."

And, to be sure, when one came to think of it, how, pray, was he to blame?

From that day there began to be more than necessity to her work, and more
than work to carry her out of herself.

In the present of commercial femininity we have two types--one, the
business man; the other, an individual without gender, impersonal, capable.
She never does anything ill-bred, certainly, but one no more thinks of
specifying that she is a lady than that her hair is black; it isn't the
point.

Mrs. Osbourne, however, was always first of all a lady. With her, men kept
their hats off and their coats on, and had an inclination to soften
business with bows, and bargains with figures of speech. She was at once so
patrician and so gracious that women felt it a kind of social function to
deal with her. The drawl of the light voice with its rising inflection was
only gently plaintive. The pretty way was winning, and rather pathetic in
her position; it drifted about her an aroma of story, and that had its own
appeal. The unvarying black of dress and bonnet, with touches of white at
neck and wrist, was refined, and made her rosy plumpness look sweeter. It
was all an uninventoried part of her stock in trade. And she came to take
the same satisfaction in returns in success and cash that she had taken as
a girl in results in valentines and cotillion favors.

Mrs. Osbourne had all the traditions of her class and generation. She let
her distaste of the situation be known. If it had been possible, she would
have concealed it like a scandal. As it was, with very proud apology, she
made the necessity of her case understood: her object was bread and butter,
not any of these new Woman's Rights--unwomanly, bourgeoise!

Nevertheless, it was not only true that it suited her to be doing something
with some point and result, but that the life of action and influence among
people suited her. The work came to interest her for itself as well as for
its object; that interest was a factor in her success; and the success
again both stimulated and further equipped her.

As she got into training and over the first sore muscles of mind and body,
work began to strengthen her. The nerves and small ailments grew secondary,
were overlooked, actually lessened. There need be nothing esoteric in
saying that a vital interest in life is as essential to health as to
happiness. One need consider only the practical and physical effects of
interest and self-forgetfulness, serenity and self-resource.

Sometimes her increasing trade took her away for two or three days, as far
as Louisville or Cincinnati. The thought of Guy followed her, a sweet pain.
She found herself hurrying back to her bright prisoner, and because of both
conditions the marvel of that brightness grew on her, together with certain
embarrassed comparisons. More than anything else, she admired his strength
where she had been weak.

His brightness seemed to her the most pathetic thing about him; it was so
sorry. It was indeed the epitome of his tragedy. To be as unobtrusive as
possible, and, when necessarily in evidence, as pleasant as possible, was
the role he had assigned himself. It was the one thing he could do, the
only thing he could do for her.

Doubtless the very controlling of the nervousness helped it. Moreover, his
revolting organization was gradually adapting itself somewhat to the new
conditions. Sensitive and uncertain tendrils of vitality began to creep out
from the roots of a blighted vigor.

Bessie, increasingly perceptive, began to suspect that what she saw was the
brightness after the storm. She wondered what his long solitary hours were
like when she was away. What must they be, with him helpless, disappointed,
lonely, liable to maddening attacks of nerves? But he assured her that he
was perfectly comfortable; Mammy Dinah was faithful and competent; and he
was really making headway with the German and French that he had taken up
because he could put them down as need was, and because--they might come
in, in some way, some time. "In heaven?" Bessie wondered secretly, but,
enlightened by her own experience, saw the advantage of his being
entertained.

"You're too much alone," she said, feeling for the trouble. "And so am I,"
she added, thoughtfully. She should have noticed his eyes at that last. He
had developed a sort of controlled voracity for endearment, but he never
asked for it. In the old days he had taken his own masterfully, with no
doubts. Now he waited. He did not starve. She cajoled him and coaxed his
appetite and patted the pillows, and made pretty, laughing eyes at him and
fate quite in her habitual manner. Her touch and tone of affection had
never been so free. But in that very fact he found another sting.

"The better I do on the road, the more they keep me out," she was saying.
"We can't go on this way. I've been thinking lately--Could you bear to go
North, Guy, and to live in a city, among strangers? Perhaps at headquarters
there might be an opening for me that would let me settle down."

"What! Cincinnati! Is there any such chance?"

"You'd _like_ it? Why on earth--Are you so bored here?"

"Oh, Bibi, have you never thought of it? In a city there'd be some chance
of something I could do!"

"You? Oh, Guy!" After she had accepted the care of him, and that so
pleasantly, he wasn't satisfied! "Is there anything you lack here?" She was
hurt.

It was replaying the old parts reversed. Once _he_ had grieved that he
could not give her enough to content her.

"A--h--" He turned his head away and flung an arm up over his eyes.

She understood only that he was suffering. "But, Guy, there's nothing you
could do, possibly. It's not to be expected. Have I complained?" She fell
back on the kindly imbecility of the nurse. "Now you're not to worry about
that, at least until you're better--"

"Better?" He forgot the lines in which he had schooled himself. The man
overrode the amateur actor. "That's not the thing to hope for. Why couldn't
it have killed me--that first fall?" ("My dear, my dear!" she stammered.)
"There would have been some satisfaction in getting out of the way, and
that in decent fashion; like a charge of powder, not like a rubbish-heap. I
can't accept it of you, Bibi. I'm enraged for you. I can't be grateful. I'm
ashamed."

She understood now.

What could she say? A dozen things, and she did; things about as satisfying
as theology at the grave. He did not answer nor respond. When he relaxed at
last it was simply to her arms around him, his head on her bosom, her
wordless notes of tenderness and consolation.

He was suffering, and chiefly for her, and what a fighter he was! Who but
he would ever have thought of _his_ doing anything?

So there might be cases in which it was really more helpful and generous
not to do things for people, but to let them do for themselves. She
couldn't fancy his doing enough to amount to anything. He oughtn't to! But
if it would make him any happier he should have his make-believe--yes, and
without knowing it was make-believe. Doing things that were of no value to
any one was so disheartening. She knew. Like perfunctory exercise for your
health.

Her own business in Cincinnati proved so brief as to take her breath. His
was more difficult. The plough was still mightier than either sword or pen.
Few markets were open to an inactive man whose hours must be short and
irregular, and whose chief qualifications seemed to be a valiant spirit and
a store of reminiscences, in a time when reminiscences were as easy to get
as advice.

She was delayed in her return, growing more and more anxious at the thought
of his anxiety. When she boarded the south-bound train, she went down the
aisle, looking for a seat, with her short steps hurried as if it would get
her home sooner.

Mrs. Grey leaned over and motioned her, and as she sat down, looked
critically at the bright eyes and pink cheeks. "You certainly do look well
nowadays, Bessie."

Doubtless Bessie's color was partly excitement and rush.

"Oh, I'm well," absently.

"Funny kind of dyspepsia, wasn't it, to be cured by eating around, the way
you have to do."

"Oh, dyspepsia!" The nettles brought back her attention. People needn't
belittle her troubles! "I still have that dyspepsia. But if you had to be
as busy as I, Mrs. Grey, you'd know that there are times when nothing but
sudden death can interfere." Even Mrs. Grey's prickings, however, were
washed over to-day by Balm of Gilead. "Still, it has come to something. The
company has given me Cincinnati for my territory."

"Really?" Not that Mrs. Grey doubted her veracity. "Well, you always did
succeed at anything you put your hand to. It has been the most surprising
thing! You know, I tell everybody, Bessie, that you deserve all the credit
in the world for the way you have taken hold." Bessie stiffened; neither
need they sympathize too much! "A girl brought up as you were, who always
had the best of everything." _The best of everything!_ The familiar phrase
was like a bell, sending wave after wave of memory singing through Bessie's
mind. "And still I never saw any one to whom the wind has been so tempered
as to you: when you were sick you could afford it, and now that it's
inconvenient--Things always did seem to work smoother with you, and come
out better, than with any of the rest of us."

Bessie sat looking at her, and, in the speech, saw her own petulance of a
moment before--any number of her own speeches, in fact, inverted, as things
are in a glass. Indeed, Mrs. Grey had held up a reflector. Bessie had met
herself. And she saw herself, as in a mirror-maze, from all angles, down
diminishing perspectives, from the woman she was to the girl she had been.

She had been quite unconscious of the slow transformation in her habits of
thought. It is so in life. One toils up the thickly wooded hillside, intent
only on the footing, and comes suddenly on a high clearing, overlooking
valley and path, defining a new horizon.

"I never had the best of everything, Mrs. Grey," she said. "Nobody has.
Every life and every situation in life has its bad conditions--and its good
ones. I haven't had any more happiness--nor trouble than most people. It
strikes me things are pretty equally divided. We only think they aren't
when we don't know all about it. We see the surface of other people's
lives, not their private drawbacks or compensations. There are always both.
But other people's troubles are so much easier to bear than our own, their
good luck so much less deserved and qualified! With all I had as a girl I
didn't have contentment. And now, with all I lack, I don't know any one
with whom I'd change places."

What was the use with Mrs. Grey?

But alone, the thought kept widening ring after ring: How little choice
there was of conditions in life; how fortune tends to seek its level; how
one man has the meat and another the appetite; and another, without either,
can find in the fact the flavor of a joke or chew the cud of reflection
over it. Of the three, Bessie thought she would rather be the one with the
disposition. But that could be cultivated. Look at hers! Circumstances had
started it in a sort of aside, but she would take the hint.

The cure for dissatisfaction was to recognize one's balance of good.

Guy was watching for her at the window. She was half conscious that he
looked unusually haggard, but there were so many other thoughts at sight of
him that they washed over the first.

She swung her reticule. "It's all right!" and she ran up the walk, a most
feminine swirl of progress. She got to him breathless. "I've found a house
that will give you its German correspondence to translate and write, and it
won't be so much but that you can do it as you're able, within reason. Now,
sir!"

For a minute it seemed as if Guy's whole body was alive. The weak and
shaken invalid still had something of unconquerable boyishness in the lift
of his head and the light of his eyes. "Good! That will do for a start."
The old spirit, to which hers always answered. If she didn't believe he
would actually do something worth while in the end! Then promptly, of old
habit, he thought of her. "Bibi! You took your time for that."

"Not all of it, in good sooth, fair lord." She spread out her skirts,
lady-come-to-see fashion, and strutted across the room. "Mrs. Osbourne has
a new 'job' and a 'raise.'" (Incidentally Mrs. Osbourne had never before
been so advanced in her language.)

"Bully for you!" he shouted, so genuinely that she ran back to him and
shook and hugged his shoulders. How she _liked_ him!

"What a thorough girl you are, Bibi!"

"Oh, and to-day I've been laughing at myself; as silly as I used to be,
counting so much on a mere change of circumstances. Of course something
unpleasant will develop there too. But at least the harness will rub in a
different place. On the whole, it will be better. Guy, do you know, I have
just gotten rid of envy and discontent, and that without endangering
ambition. I'll give you the charm; it's a sort of cabalistic _spell_--the
four P's--Occu_p_ation, Res_p_onsibility, _P_urpose, and _P_hilosophy."

"Yes," he said, "the most worth-while thing in life is to feel you are
accomplishing something--doing your work well and getting proportionate
returns."

The tone touched her. "Poor old Guy!" so generously congratulatory of her
flaunted advantages. How stupid she was! Poor Guy! her pretty creed
scattered at a breath like a dead dandelion-ball. Envy she had disposed of,
but what about pity? What had he to make up? "The idea of my talking of
happiness, with you caged here!"

"Perhaps that was the point of it all," he said, "to give you your chance."

"That would be a beautifully humble thing for me to think, now wouldn't
it?" Yet she had once complained that the point of it all was to interfere
with her. "And so sweetly generous. Your chance being--?"

"To serve as a means of grace to you?" He smiled. "I am glad to be of some
use--and honored to be of that one!" he hurried to add, elaborately
humorous.

But what she was noticing was the flagging effort of his vivacity. Her
half-submerged first impression of him was coming to the surface: he did
look unusually haggard. "You haven't been good while I was away. Now don't
tell stories. Don't I know you? No more storms, Guy!" she warned.

His eye evaded hers. "I am seriously questioning whether you ought to make
this change. All your friends are here."

"Oh, as to that! There might be advantages in working among strangers. Mrs.
Grey fairly puts herself out to let me understand that she is a friend in
need!" She reined herself up, recollecting, but too late. "Oh, Guy, don't
mind so for me. Why, the South is full of women doing what I am, only so
many of them are doing it--without--the Guys who never came back!"

"Lucky dogs!" subterraneously. Then, seeing her apprehensive of a second
flare-up of that volcanic fire: "So gentlemanly of them, too, Bibi. How can
those few years of love be worth a life of this to you?"

"Those few years? why, Guy! of love? Is that how _you_ feel?" Her eyes
filled; her whole face quivered. "Oh, Guy--be willing for my sake. I never
knew what love could mean until lately."

His grasp hurt her knuckles. "Yes, dear, I have seen. It's very sweet. It's
the mother in you, Bibi, and my helplessness. Of course! What could a woman
_love_ in a dependent, half-corpse of a no-man?"

For a moment she was too surprised to speak. She stared at him. "What a
notion! and it isn't true! You never were any more a man than you've been
through these two dreadful years." She sounded fairly indignant.  "And for
my part, I never appreciated what you were half as much."

"Love doesn't begin with a _P_," he remarked to the opposite wall.

"But what do you suppose the _purpose_ was?"

"Love?"

"More. _You_."

"You never told me." That strange voice and averted face!

"How should I fancy you wouldn't know? I had never thought it out myself
until just now. It has simply been going on from day to day, as natural and
quiet as growing--" A bewildering illumination was spreading in her mind.
"Look here, young man"--she forced his face around to see it,--"what
goblins have you been hatching in the night-watches?" The raillery broke.
"Dear, is that what has been troubling you? Is there anything else?"

He looked at her now. "Anything else trouble me, if I really have you, and
a chance to do a little something for you?"

It was their apotheosis. They had never known a moment equal to it before;
could never know just another such again. In a very deep way it was the
first kiss of love for them both.

Bessie came back to herself with that sense of arriving, of having been
infinitely away, with which one drops from abstraction.

Where had they been in that state of absent mind?

It was as if they had met out of time, space, matter.... And as she thought
of his words, in the light of his eyes, pity too was qualified, and that
without endangering helpfulness. He, too, had his balance of good. Yes,
things squared in the end.

Her creed was quick. The scattered dandelion seed sprouted all around her.




Pap Overholt


BY ALICE MACGOWAN

Up and down the long corn rows Pap Overholt guided the old mule and the
small, rickety, inefficient plough, whose low handles bowed his tall, broad
shoulders beneath the mild heat of a mountain June sun. As he went--ever
with a furtive eye upon the cabin--he muttered to himself, shaking his
head:

"Say I sha'n' do hit. Say he don't want me a-ploughin' his co'n. My law!
Whut you gwine do? Thar's them chillen--thar's Huldy. They got to be
fed--they 'bleeged to have meat and bread. Ef I don't--"

Again he lifted his apprehensive glance toward the cabin; and this time it
encountered a figure stepping from the low doorway--a young fellow with an
olive face, delicately cut features, black curling hair, the sleep still
lingering in his dark eyes. He approached the fence--the sorry, broken
fence,--put his hands upon it, and called sharply, "Pap!"

The old man released the plough-handles and came toward the youth,
shrinking like a truant schoolboy called up for discipline.

"Pap, this is the way you do me all the time--come an' plough in my co'n
when I don't know nothin' about hit--when I don't want hit done,--tryin' to
make everybody think I'm lazy and no 'count. Huldy tellin' me I ought to be
ashamed of myse'f, in bed while my po' old pappy--'at hain't ploughed a row
of his own for years--is a-gittin' my co'n outen the weeds."

The father stood, a chidden culprit. The boy had worked himself up to the
desired point.

"You jest do hit to put a shame on me. Now, Pap, you take that mule--"

"W'y, Sammy,--w'y, Sammy honey, you know Pappy don't do it fer nair sech a
reason. Hit don't look no sech a thing--like you was shif'less an' lazy.
Hit jes look like Pappy got nothin' to do, an' love to come and give you a
turn with yo' co'n; an', Sammy honey,"--the good farmer for the moment
getting the better of the timid, soft-hearted parent,--"hit is might'ly in
the weeds, boy. Don't you reckon I better jes--"

The other began, "I tell you--"

"There, there! Ne'mine, Sammy. Ef you don't want Pappy to plough no mo',
Pappy jes gwine to take the plough right outen the furrow and put old Beck
up. Pappy gwine--"

The boy turned away, his point made, and strolled back to the cabin. The
old man, murmuring a mixture of apologies, assurances, and expostulations,
went pathetically about the putting up of the mule, the setting away of the
plough.

Nobody knew when Pap Overholt began to be so called, nor when his wife had
received the affectionate title of Aunt Cornelia. It was a naming that grew
of itself. Forty years ago the pair had been married--John, a sturdy,
sunny-tempered young fellow of twenty-one, six feet in his stockings, broad
of shoulder, deep of chest, and with a name and a nature clean of all
tarnish; Cornelia Blackshears, a typical mountain girl of the best sort.

When, at the end of the first year, old Dr. Pastergood, who had ushered
Cornelia herself into this world, turned to them with her first child in
his arms, the young father stood by, controlling his great rush of primal
joy, his boyish desire to do something noisy and violent; the mother looked
first at her husband, then into the old doctor's face, with eyes of
passionate delight and appeal. He was speechless a moment, for pity. Then
he said, gently:

"Hit's gone, befo' hit ever come to us, Cornely. Hit never breathed a
breath of this werrisome world."

A man who had practised medicine in the Turkey Tracks for twenty-five years
--a doctor among these mountain people, where poverty is the rule, hardship
a condition of life, and tragedy a fairly familiar element, would have had
his fibre well stiffened. The brave old campaigner, who had sat beside so
many death-beds and so many birth-beds, and had seen so many come and so
many go, at the exits and entrances of life, met the matter stoutly and
without flinching. His stoic air, his words of passive acceptance, laid a
calm upon the first outburst of bitter grief from the two young creatures.
Later, when John had gone to do the chores, the old doctor still sat by
Cornelia's bed. He took the girl's hand in his--an unusual demonstration of
feeling for a mountaineer--and said to her, gently,

"Cornely, there won't never be no mo'--there'll be nair another baby to
you, honey."

The stricken girl fastened her eyes upon his in dumb pain and protest. She
said nothing, the wound was too deep; only her lips quivered pitifully and
the tears ran down upon the pillow.

"Now, now, honey, don't ye go to fret that-a-way. W'y, Cornely, ye was made
for a mother; the Lord made ye for such--an' do ye 'low 'at He don't know
what He's a-gwine to do with the work of His hands? 'For mo' air the
children of the desolate'--don't ye know Scripter says?--than of them that
has many. Lord love ye, honey, girl, you'll be mother to a minny and a
minny. They air a-comin'; the Lord's a-sendin' 'em. W'y, honey,--you and
John will have children gathered around you--"

The one cry broke forth from Cornelia which she ever uttered through all
her long grief of childlessness: "Oh, but, Dr. Pastergood, I wanted
mine--my own--and John's! Oh, I reckon it was idolatry the way I felt in my
heart; I thought, to have a little trick-bone o' my bone, flesh o' my
flesh--look up at me with John's eyes--" A sob choked her utterance, and
never again was it resumed.

In the years that followed, the pair--already come to be called Pap
Overholt and Aunt Cornely--well fulfilled the old doctor's prophecy. The
very next year after their baby was laid away, John's older brother, Jeff,
lost his wife, and the three little children Mandy left were brought at
once to them, remaining in peace and welfare for something over a year
(Jeff was a circumspect widower), making the place blithe with their
laughter and their play. Then their father married, and they were taken to
the new home. He was an Overholt too, and shared that powerful paternal
instinct with John. Three times this thing happened. Three times Jeff
buried a wife, and the little Jeff Overholts, with recruited ranks, were
brought to Aunt Cornelia and Pap John. When Jeff married his fourth
wife--Zulena Spivey, a powerful, vital, affluent creature, of an unusual
type for the mountains,--and the children (there were nine of them by this
time) went to live with their step-mother, whose physique and disposition
promised a longer tenure than any of her predecessors, Pap and Aunt
Cornelia sat upon the lonely hearth and assured each other with tears that
never again would they take into their home and their lives, as their very
own, any children upon whom they could have no sure claim.

"Tell ye, Cornely, this thing o' windin' yer heart-strings around and
around a passel o' chaps for a year or so and then havin' 'em tore
out--well, hit takes a mighty considerable chunk o' yer heart along with
'em." And the wife, looking at him with wet eyes, nodded an assent.

It was next May that Pap Overholt, who had been doing some hauling over as
far as Big Turkey Track, returned one evening with a little figure perched
beside him on the high wagon seat. "The Lord sent him, honey," he said, and
handed the child down to his wife. "He ain't got a livin' soul on this
earth to lay claim to him. He is ourn as much as ef he was flesh and bone
of us. I even tuck out the papers."

That evening, the two sitting watching the little dark face in its sleep,
Pap told his story. Driving across the flank of Yellow Old Bald, beyond
Lost Cabin, he had passed a woman with five children sitting beside the
road in Big Buck Gap.

"Cornely, she looked like a picture out of a book," whispered Pap. "This
chap's the livin' image of her. Portugee blood--touch o' that melungeon
tribe from over in the Fur Cove. She had a little smooth face shaped like a
aig; that curly hair hangin' clean to her waist, dark like this baby's, but
with the sun all through it; these eyebrows o' his'n that's lifted in the
middle o' his forred, like he cain't see why some onkindness was did him;
and little slim hands and feet; all mighty furrin to the mountains. I give
'er a lift--she was goin' to Hepzibah, huntin' fer some kind o' charity
she'd heard could be got there; and this little trick he tuck to me right
then."

The woman bent over and looked long at the small olive face, so delicately
cut, the damp rings of hair on his forehead, the tragic lift of the brows
above the nose bridge, the thin-lipped scarlet mouth. "My baby," she
murmured; then lifted her glance with the question: "An' how come ye to
have him? Did she--did that womern--"

"No, no. 'Twas this-a-way," Pap interrupted her. "When I came back from Big
Turkey Track, I went down through Hepzibah--I couldn't git this chap's
eyes--ner his little hands--out o' my head; I found myse'f a-studyin' on
'em the hull enjurin' time. She was dead when I got thar. She'd died to
Squire Cannon's, and they was a-passellin' out the chillen 'mongst the
neighbors. No sooner I put foot on the po'ch 'n this little soul come
a-runnin' to me, an' says: W'y, here's my pappy, now. I tole you-all I did
have a pappy. Now look--see--here he is.' Then he peeked up at me, and he
put up his little arms, an' he says, jest as petted, and yit a little
skeered, he says, 'Take me, pappy.' When I tuck him up, he grabbed me round
the neck and dug his little face into mine. Then he looked around at all
the folks, and sort o' shivered, and put his face back in my neck--still ez
a little possum when you've killed the old ones an' split up the tree an'
drug out the nest."

Both faces were wet with tears now. Pap went on: "I had the papers made
right out--I knowed you'd say yes, Cornely. He's Samuel Ephraim Overholt.
A-comin' home, the little weenty chap looks up at me suddent an' axes, 'Is
they a mammy to we-all's house whar we goin' now?' Lord! Lord!" Pap shook
his head gently, as signifying the utter inadequacy of mere words.

Little Sammy grew and thrived in the Overholt home. The tiny rootlets of
his avid, unconscious baby life he thrust out in all directions through
that kind soil, sucking, sucking, grasping, laying hold, drawing to him and
his great little needs sustenance material and spiritual. More keen and
capable to penetrate were those thready little fibres than the irresistible
water-seeking tap-root of the cottonwood or the mesquite of the plains;
more powerful to clasp and to hold than the cablelike roots of the
rock-embracing cedar. The little new member was so much living sunshine,
gay, witching, brilliant, erratic in disposition as he was singular and
beautiful in his form and coloring, but always irresistibly endearing,
dangerously winning. When he had been Sammy Overholt only two weeks, he sat
at table with his parents one day and scornfully rejected the little plate
that was put before him.

"No!" he cried, sharply. "No, no! I won't have it--ole nassy plate!"

"W'y, baby! W'y, Sammy," deprecated Cornelia, "that's yo' own little plate
that mammy washed for you. You mustn't call it naisty."

"Hit air nassy," insisted young Samuel. "Hit got 'pecks--see!" and the
small finger pointed to some minute flaw in the ware which showed as little
dots on the white surface.

Cornelia, who, though mild and serene, was possessed of firmness and a
sense of justice, would have had the matter fairly settled. "He ort not to
cut up this-away, John," she urged. "He ort to take his little plate and
behave hisse'f; 'r else he ort to be spanked,--he really ort, John, in
jestice to the child"

But John was of another mould. "Law, Cornely! Hit's jest baby-doin's. The
idee o' him a-settin' up 'at yo' dishes ain't clean! That shore do beat
all!" And he had executed an exchange of plates under Cornelia's
deprecating eyes. And so the matter went.

Again, upon a June day, Sammy was at play with the scion of the only negro
family which had ever been known in all the Turkey Track regions. The
Southern mountaineers have little affinity, socially or politically, with
the people of the settlements. There were never any slaveholders among
them, and the few isolated negroes were treated with almost perfect
equality by the simple-minded mountain dwellers.

"Sammy honey, you an' Jimmy mus' cl'ar up yo' litter here. Don't leave it
on mammy's nice flo'. Hit's mighty nigh supper-time. Cl'ar up now, 'fo'
Pappy comes."

Sammy stiffened his little figure to a startling rigidity. "I ain't a-goin'
to work!" he flung out. "Let him do it; _he's a nigger_!" And this was the
last word of the argument.

This was Sammy--handsome, graceful, exceedingly winning, sudden and
passionate, disdaining like a young zebra the yoke of labor, and, when
crossed, absolutely beyond all reason or bounds; the life of every
gathering of young people as he grew up; much made of, deferred to, sought
after, yet everywhere blamed as undutiful and ungrateful.

"Oh, I do p'intedly wish the neighbors would leave us alone," sighed Pap
Overholt, when these reports came to him. "As ef I didn't know what I
wanted--as ef I couldn't raise my own chile;" and as he said this he ever
avoided Aunt Cornelia's honest eye.

It was when Sammy was eighteen, the best dressed, the best horsed--and the
idlest--to be found from Little Turkey Track to the Fur Cove, from Tatum's
to Big Buck Gap--that he went one day, riding his sorrel filly, down to
Hepzibah, ostensibly to do some errands for Aunt Cornelia, but in fact
simply in search of a good time. The next day Blev Straly, a rifle over his
shoulder and a couple of hounds at heel, stopped a moment at the
chopping-block where Pap was splitting some kindling.

"I was a-passin'," he explained--"I was jest a-passin', an' I 'lowed I'd
drap in an' tell ye 'bout Sammy. Hit better be me than somebody 'at likes
to carry mean tales and wants to watch folks suffer." Aunt Cornelia was
beside her husband now.

"No, no," Blev answered the look on the two faces; "nothin' ain't the
matter of Sammy. He's jest married--that little Huldy Frew 'at's been
waitin' on table at Aunt Randy Card's _ho_-tel. You know, Aunt Cornely, she
is a mighty pretty little trick--and there ain't nothin' bad about the gal.
I jest knowed you and Pap 'ud feel mighty hurt over Sammy doin' you-all
like you was cruel to him--like he had to run away to git married; and I
'lowed I better come and tell you fust."

The "little Huldy gal" was, as Blev Straly had described her, a mighty
pretty little trick, and nothing bad about her. The orphan child of poor
mountaineers, bound out since the death of her parents when she was ten
years old, she had been two years now working for Aunt Randy Card, who kept
the primitive hotel at Hepzibah. Even in this remote region Huldy showed
that wonderful--that irrepressible--upward impulse of young feminine
America, that instinctive affinity for the finer things of life, that
marvellous understanding of graces and refinements, and that pathetic and
persistent groping after them which is the marked characteristic of
America's daughters. The child was not yet sixteen, a fair little thing
with soft ashen hair and honest gray eyes, the pink upon her cheek like
that of a New England girl.

At first this marriage--which had been so unkindly conducted by Sammy, used
by him apparently as a weapon of affront--seemed to bring with it only
good, only happiness. The boy was more contented at home, less wayward, and
the feeling of apprehension that had dwelt continually in the hearts of Pap
and Aunt Cornelia ever since his adolescence now slept. The little
Huldy--her own small cup apparently full of happiness--was all affectionate
gratitude and docility. She healed the bruises Sammy made, poured balm in
the wounds he inflicted; she was sunny, obedient, grateful enough for two.

But a new trait was developed in Sammy's nature--perversity. Life was made
smooth to his feet; the things he needed--even the things which he merely
desired--were procured and brought to him. Love brooded above and around
him--timid, chidden, but absolute, adoring. Nothing was left him--no
occupation was offered for his energies--but to resent these things, to
quarrel with his benefits. And now the quarrel began.

Its outcome was this: Toward the end of the first year of the marriage,
upon a bleak, forbidding March day--a day of bitter wind and icy
sleet,--there rode one to the Overholt door who called upon Pap and Aunt
Cornelia to hitch up and come with all possible haste to old Eph'm
Blackshears, Cornelia's father--a man who had lived to fourscore, and who
now lay at his last, asking for his daughter, his baby chile, Cornely.

For days Sammy had been in a very ill-promising mood; but he brightened as
the foster-parents drove away in the bleak, gray, hostile forenoon, Huldy
helping Aunt Cornelia to dress and make ready, tucking her lovingly into
the wagon and beneath the thick old quilt.

The elder woman yearned over the girl with a mother's compassionate
tenderness. Both Aunt Cornelia and Pap John looked with a passionate,
delighted anticipation to when they would have their own child's baby upon
their hearth. It was the more notable marks of this tenderness, of this
joyous anticipation, which Sammy had begun to resent--the gifts and the
labors showered upon the young wife in relation to her coming importance,
which he had barely come short of refusing and repelling. "Whose wife is
she, I'd like to know? Looks like I cain't do nothin' for my own
woman--a-givin' an' a-givin' to Huldy, like she was some po' white trash,
some beggar!" But he had only "sulled," as his mother called it, never
quite able to reach the point he desired of actually flinging the care, the
gifts, and the loving labors back in the foster-parents' faces.

Pappy Blackshears passed away quietly in the evening; and when he had been
made ready for his grave by Cornelia's hands, her anxiety for the little
daughter at home would not let her remain longer.

"I'm jest 'bleeged to go to Huldy," she explained to the relatives and
neighbors gathered at the old Blackshears place. "I p'intedly dassent to
leave her over one night--and not a soul with her but Sammy, and he nothin'
but a chile--and not a neighbor within a mild of our place--and sech a
night! Pap and me we'll hitch up an' mak' 'as'e back to Huldy. We'll be
here to the funeral a Sunday--but I dassent to stay away from Huldy nair
another hour now." And so, at ten o'clock that bitter night, Pap and Aunt
Cornelia came hurrying home.

As the wagon drove up the mountain trail to the house, the hounds came
belling joyously to meet them; but no light gleamed cheerfully from the
windows; no door was flung gayly open; no little Huldy cried out her glad
greeting. Filled with formless apprehensions, Pap climbed over the wheel,
lifted Cornelia down, and dreading they knew not what, the two
went,--holding by each other's hand,--opened the door, and entered,
shrinking and reluctant. They blew the smouldering coals to a little flame,
piled on light-wood till the broad blaze rolled up the chimney, then looked
about. No living soul was in any room. Finally Cornelia caught sight of a
bit of paper stuck upon the high mantel. She tore it down, and the two read
slowly and laboriously together the few lines written in Sammy's hand:

"I ain't going to allow my wife to live off any man's charity. I ain't
going to be made to look like nothing in the eyes of people any longer.
I've taken my wife to my own place, where I can support her myself. I had
to borrow your ox-cart and steers to move with, and Huldy made me bring
some things she said mother had give her, but I'll pay all this back, and
more, for I intend to be independent and not live on any man's bounty.

"Respectfully, your son,
"SAMUEL"

The two old faces, pallid and grief-struck, confronted each other in the
shaken radiance of the pine fire.

"Oh, my po' chile, my po' little Huldy! Whar? His own place! My law!--whar?
Whar has he drug that little soul?"

An intuition flashed into Pap Overholt's mind. He grasped his wife's arm.
"W'y, Cornely," he cried, "hit's that cabin on The Bench! Don't ye know,
honey? I give him that land when he was sixteen year old,--time he brung
the prize home from the school down in the settlemint."

"The Bench! Oh, Lord--The Bench! W'y, hit 'll be the death of her. John, we
cain't git to her too quick." And she ran from cupboard to press, from
press to chest, from chest to bureau drawer, piling into John's arms the
flask of brandy, the homely medicines, the warm garments, such bits of food
as she could catch up that were palatable and portable. Pap, with more
vulnerable emotions and less resolute nature, was incapable of speech; he
could only suffer dumbly.

Arrived at the abandoned cabin on The Bench, the picture that greeted them
crushed Pap's soft heart to powder, but roused in Aunt Cornelia a rage that
would have resulted in a sharp settlement with Sammy, had it not been that,
now as always, to reach the offender a blow must go through that same
pitiful heart of John's. The young people had not long been at the cabin
when the parents arrived. The little Huldy, moaning piteously, with a
stricken, terrified look in her big, childish eyes, was crouched upon the
floor beside a rickety chair. Sammy, sullen and defiant, was at the
desolate hearth, fumbling with unskilled hands at the sodden chunks of wood
he had there gathered.

The situation was past words. Pap, after one look at Huldy, went about the
fire-building, the slow tears rolling down his cheeks. While Aunt Cornelia
brought the bedding, the warm blankets and wrappings, and made the little
suffering creature a comfortable couch, Pap wrought at the forlorn, gaping
fireplace like a suffering giant. When the leaping flames danced and
shouted up the chimney till the whole cabin was filled with the physical
joy of their light and warmth, when steaming coffee and the hastily fetched
food had been served to the others, and the little wife lay quietly for the
moment, the two elders talked together outside where a corner of the cabin
cut off the driving sleet. Then Sammy was included, and another council was
held, this time of three.

No. He would not budge. That was _his_ wife. A fellow that was man enough
to have a wife ought to be man enough to take keer of her. He wasn't going
to have his child born in the house of charity. There was no thoroughfare.
Sammy was allowed to withdraw, and the council of two was resumed. As a
result of its deliberations, Pap John drove away through the darkness and
the sleet. By midnight two trips had been made between the big double log
house at the Overholt place and the wretched cabin on The Bench, and all
that Sammy would suffer to be brought to them or done for them had been
brought and done. The cabin was, in a very humble way, inhabitable. There
was food and a small provision for the immediate present. And here, upon
that wild March night of screaming wind and sleet, and with only Aunt
Cornelia as doctor and nurse, Huldy's child was born.

And now a new order of things began.

Sammy's energies appeared to be devoted to the thwarting of Pap Overholt's
care and benefits. There should be no cow brought to the cabin; and so Pap
John, who was getting on in years now, and had long since given up hard,
active work, hastened from his bed at four o'clock in the morning, milked a
cow, and carried the pail of fresh milk to Huldy and the baby, furtively,
apologetically. The food, the raiment, everything had to be smuggled into
the house little by little, explained, apologized for. The land on The
Bench was rich alluvial soil. Sammy, in his first burst of independence,
ploughed it (borrowing mule and plough from a neighbor--the one neighbor
ever known to be on ill terms with Pap Overholt), and planted it to corn.
He put in a little garden, too; while Pap had achieved the establishment of
a small colony of hens (every one of whom, it appeared, laid two or three
eggs each day--at least that was the way the count came out).

The baby thrived, unconscious of all the grief, the perverse cruelty, the
baffled, defeated tenderness about her, and was the light of Pap Overholt's
doting eyes, the delight of Aunt Cornelia's heart. When she was eighteen
months old, and could toddle about and run to meet them, and chattered that
wonderful language which these two hearts of love had all their lives
yearned to hear--the dialect of babyhood,--the twin boys came to the cabin
on The Bench. And Pap Overholt's lines were harder than ever. Cornelia had
sterner stuff in her. She would have called a halt.

"Oh, John!" she expostulated finally, when she saw her husband come home
crestfallen one day, with a ham which Sammy had detected him smuggling into
the cabin and ordered back,--"John honey, ef you was to stop toting things
to the cabin and let it all alone--not pester with it another--"

"Cornely, Cornely!" cried Pap John, "you know Sammy cain't no mo' keep a
wife and chillen than a peckerwood kin. W'y, they'd starve! Huldy and the
chaps would jest p'intedly starve."

"No, they won't, John. Ef you could master yo' own soft heart--ef you could
stay away (like he's tole ye a minny a time to do, knowin' 'at you was safe
not to mind him)--Sammy would stop this here foolishness. He'd come to his
senses and be thankful for what the Lord sent, like other people. W'y,
John--"

"Cornely honey--don't. Don't ye say another word. I tell ye, this last year
there's a feelin' in my throat and in my breast--hyer,"--he laid his hand
pathetically over his heart,--"a cur'us, gone, flutterin' feelin'. And when
Sammy r'ars up and threatens he'll take Huldy and the chaps--you know,"--he
finished with a gesture of the hand and a glance of unspeakable
pain,--"when he does that 'ar way, or something comes at me sudden like
that--that we may lose 'em, hit seems like--right hyer,"--and his hand went
again to his heart,--"that I can't bear it--that hit 'll take my life."

This was the last time Cornelia ever remonstrated with Pap John. She had a
little talk with the new doctor from Hepzibah who bad succeeded old Dr.
Pastergood; and after that John was added to the list of her anxieties. He
might carry the milk to the cabin on The Bench; he might slip in, when he
deemed Sammy away--or asleep--and plough the corn; she saw the tragic folly
of it, but must be silent. And so on that particular June morning, when Pap
had put up the mule, clambered down the short-cut footway from The Bench to
the old house, stopping several times to shake his head again and murmur to
himself--"Whut you gwine do? There's them chaps; there's Huldy. Mustn't
plough his co'n; mustn't take over air cow. Whut you gwine do?"--Aunt
Cornelia's seeing eye noted his perturbation the moment he came in at the
door. With tender guile she built up a considerable argument in the matter
of a quarterly meeting which was approaching--the grove quarterly, in which
Pap John was unfailingly interested, and during which there were always
from two to half a dozen preachers, old and young, staying with them. So
she led him away--ever so little away--from his ever-present grief.

It was the next day that he said to her, "Cornely, I p'intedly ain't gwine
to suffer this hyer filchin' o' co'n them Fusons is a-keepin' up on me."

"Is the Fusons a-stealin' yo' co'n, John?" she responded, in surprise.
"W'y, they got a-plenty, ain't they?"

"Well, no, not adzactly, that is to say, Buck Fuson ain't got a-plenty. He
too lazy and shif'less to make co'n of his own; and he like too well to
filch co'n from them he puts his spite on. Buck Fuson he tuck a spite at
me, last time the raiders was up atter that Fuson hideout; jes set up an'
swore 'at I'd gin the word to 'em. You see, honey, he makes him up a spite
that-a-way--jes out o' nothin'--'cause hit's sech a handy thing to have
around when he comes to want co'n. Thar's some one already purvided to
steal from--some one 'at's done him a injury."

"Pappy! W'y, Johnny honey, sakes alive! What air ye ever a-gwine to do
'long o' that there thing?" For the old man had laboriously fetched out a
rusty wolf-trap, and was now earnestly inspecting and overhauling it.

"Whut am I a-gwine to do 'long o' this hyer, Cornely? W'y, I am jes
p'intedly a-gwine to set it in my grain-room. Buck Fuson air a bad man,
honey. There's two men's blood to his count. They cain't nothin' be done to
him for nair a one of 'em--you know, same's I do--'ca'se hit cain't be
proved in a co't o' law. But I kin ketch him in this meanness with this
hyer little jigger, and I'm a-gwine to do hit, jest ez sure ez my name's
John Overholt!"

"Oh, Pappy! A leetle bit o' co'n fer a man's chillen--"

"Now, Cornely honey, that's a womern! Buck Fuson is the wrong kind o' man
to have round. He's ben a stealin' my co'n now fer two weeks and mo'. Ef I
kin ketch him right out, and give him a fa'r shamin', he'll quit the Turkey
Tracks fer good. So fer as Elmiry and the chaps is consarned, they'll be
better off without Buck 'n what they is with him."

At this moment Aunt Cornelia cried out joyously, "Oh, thar's my chile!" and
ran to meet her daughter-in-law. The little girl--Cornelia the
second--could navigate bravely by herself now, and Huldy was carrying the
lusty twin boys. In the flutter of delight over this stolen visit, the ugly
wolf-trap threat was forgotten. It had been a month and more since Sammy
had set foot in his parents' house. It had gone all over both Turkey Tracks
that Sam Overholt declared he would never darken Pap Overholt's door
again--Pap Overholt, who had tried to make a pauper of him, loading him
with gifts and benefits, like he was shif'less, no-'count white trash! The
little Huldy reported him gone to Far Canaan, over beyond Big Turkey Track,
in the matter of some employment, which he had not deigned to make clearer
to his wife. He would not be back until the day after to-morrow; and
meantime she might stay with the old folks two whole days and nights! In
the severe school to which life had put her, the little Huldy had developed
an astonishing amount of character, of shrewdness, and perception, and a
very fair philosophy of her own. To the elder woman's sad observation that
it was mighty strange what made Sammy so "onthankful" and so "ha'sh" to his
pappy, who had done so much for him, Huldy responded,

"No, Aunt Cornely, hit ain't strange, not a bit."

"Ain't strange? Huldy child, what do you mean?"

"W'y, don't you know, Aunt Cornely, ef he do Pappy that-a-way, when Pappy
do so much fer him, then he don't have to be thankful. When everybody's
a-tellin' him, 'Yo' pap's so kind, yo' pap does everything for you; look
like you cain't be good enough to him,' he 'bleeged to find some way to
shake off all that thankfulness 'at's sech a burden to him. And so when
Pappy come a-totin' milk, an' a-totin' pork, an' a-ploughin' his co'n outen
the weeds, w'y, Sammy jest draw down his face an' look black at Pappy, and
make like he mad at him--like he don't want none o' them things--like Pappy
jest pesterin' round him fer nothin'. but meanness. Now mind, Aunt Cornely,
I ain't say Sammy knows this his own se'f. But I studied Sammy mighty well,
an' _I_ know. Sammy gittin' tell he do me the same way. I wait on him hand
and foot; I cook his bacon jest like he tol' me you did it fer him. I fix
everything the best I kin (and mebby all three of the chillen a-cryin'
after me); and when he come in and see it all ready, and see how hard I got
it, and seem like there's a call fer him to be thankful, then Sammy jest
turns on hit all. He draw down his face at me and he say, black like: 'I
don't want no bacon--what did you fix that shirt for that-a-way? Take away
that turnip sallet--I cain't git nothin' like I want it.' Then, you know,"
with a little smile up into the other's face, half pitiful, half
saucy,--"Then you know, Sammy don't have to be thankful. Hit was all done
wrong."

It was the next evening--Saturday evening. The entire household (which
included Elder Justice and two young preachers from Big Turkey Track, with
Brother Tarbush, one of the new exhorters) had returned from the
afternoon's meeting in the grove. Supper had been eaten and cleared away.
The babies had been put to sleep; the two women and the five men--all
strong and striking types of the Southern mountaineer--were gathered for
the evening reading and prayer. Elder Justice, now nearly eighty years old,
a beautiful and venerable person, had opened the big Bible, and after
turning the leaves a moment, raised his grave, rugged face and read:
"'Therefore will I divide him a portion with the great, and he shall divide
the spoil with the strong; because he hath poured out his soul unto
death.'"

He paused, and on the intense stillness which followed the ceasing of his
voice--the silence of evening in the deep mountains--there broke a long,
shrill, agonized scream.

As every one of the little circle leaped to his feet, Aunt Cornelia's eyes
sought her husband's face, and his hers. After that grinding, terrible cry,
the stillness of the night was unstirred. Pap Overholt sprang to the
hearth--where even in the midsummer months a log smoulders throughout the
day, to be brightened into a cheery blaze mornings and evenings,--seized a
brand, one or two of the others following his example, and ran through the
doorway, across the little chip-yard, making for the low-browed log barn
and the grain-room beside it.

None who witnessed that scene ever forgot it. Each one told it afterward in
his own way, declaring that not while he lived could the remembrance of it
pass from his mind. Pap Overholt's tall figure leaped crouching through the
low doorway, and next instant lifted the blazing brand high above his head;
the others followed, doing the same. There by the grain-bin, with ashy
countenance and shaking limbs, the sweat of anguish upon his forehead, his
eyes roving dumbly around the circle of faces revealed by the flickering
light of the brands--there with the dreadful wolf-trap (locked by its chain
to a stanchion) hanging to his right arm, its fangs bitten through and
through the flesh, stood Sammy.

Pap Overholt's mind refused at first to understand. He had known (with that
sort of moral assurance which makes a thing as real to us as the evidence
of the senses themselves) that it was Buck Fuson who had been stealing his
grain. He had set his trap to catch Buck Fuson; not instantly could the
mere sight of his eyes convince him that the trapped thief was the petted,
adored, perverse son, who had refused his father's bounty when it had
seemed the little wife and babies must starve. When he did realize, the cry
that burst from his heart brought tears to all the eyes looking upon him.
Down went the tall, broad figure, down into the dust of the grain-room
floor. And there Pap Overholt grovelled on his knees, his white head almost
at the thief's feet, crying, crying that old cry of David's: "Oh, Sammy, my
son! My son, Sammy! An' I wouldn't 'a' touched a hair o' his head. My God!
have mercy on my soul, that would 'a' fed him my heart's blood--an' he
wouldn't take bite nor sup from my hand. Oh, Sammy! what did you want to do
this to yo' po' old pappy fer?"

Elder Justice, quick and efficient at eighty years, had sprung to the lad's
right arm, two of the younger men close after. Aunt Cornelia held her piece
of blazing light-wood for them while they cut away the sleeve and made
ready to bear apart the powerful jaws of the trap. The little Huldy had
said never a word. Her small, white face was strained; but it did not bear
the marks of shock and of horror that were written on every other
countenance there. When they had grasped jaws and lever, and Elder
Justice's kind voice murmured, "Mind now, Sammy. Hold firm, son; we air
a-gwine to pull 'em back. Brace yo'se'f," the boy's haggard eyes sought his
mother's face.

"Le' me take it, Aunt Cornely," whispered Huldy, loosing the light-wood
from the elder woman's hand and leaving her free. And the next moment
Sammy's left hand was clasped tight in his mother's; he turned his face
round to her broad breast and hid it there; and there he sobbed and shook
as the savage jaws came slowly back.

       *       *       *       *       *

That strange hour worked a complete revolution in the lives of the little
family in the cabin on The Bench and those in the big, hospitable Pap
Overholt home. Sammy had "met up with" punishment at last; he had
encountered discipline; and the change it wrought upon him was almost
beyond belief. The spell which this winning, wayward, perverse creature had
laid upon Pap Overholt's too affectionate, too indulgent nature was
dissolved in that terrible hour. He was no more to the father now than a
troublesome boy who had been most trying and not very satisfactory. The
ability to wring the hearts of those who wished to benefit him had passed
from Sammy; but it is only fair to say that the wish to do so seemed to be
no longer his. While his arm was still in a sling, before he had yet raised
his shamed eyes to meet the eyes of those about him, Pap Overholt
cheerfully put old Ned and Jerry to the big ox-wagon and bodily removed the
little household from The Bench to the home which had been so long yearning
for them.

Now, at last, he was Pap Overholt indeed. The little Huldy, whose burden of
gratitude for two had seemed to Aunt Cornelia so grievous a one, was a
daughter after any man's heart, and her brood of smiling children were a
wagon-load which Pap John hauled with joy and pride to and from the
settlement, to the circus--ay, every circus that ever showed its head
within a day's drive of Little Turkey Track,--to meetin', to grove
quarterlies, in response to every call of neighborliness, or of mere
amusement.




In the Piny Woods


BY MRS. B. F. MAYHEW

A sparsely settled bit of country in the piny woods of North Carolina. A
house rather larger than its neighbors, though only a "story and a jump" of
four rooms, two upper and two lower, and quite a commodius shed on the back
containing two rooms and a small entry; and when Jeems Henry Tyler
increased his rooms as his family grew, his neighbors "allowed" that "arter
er while he'd make er hotel out'n it." Several out-houses stood at
convenient distances from the house. A rough board paling enclosed the
yard. A clearing of twenty-five or more acres lay around three sides of the
house, and well-to-do Industry and Thrift plainly went hand in hand about
the place.

A Saturday in early autumn was drawing near its close, and the family had
finished supper, though it was not yet dark. Like all country folk of their
station in life, they ate in the kitchen, a building separate from the
house. There were "Grandmother Tyler," a sweet-faced old woman, with
silvery hair smoothed away under a red silk kerchief folded cornerwise and
tied under her chin; and her son, "Father Tyler," with his fifty-odd years
showing themselves in his grizzled hair and beard; and "Mother Tyler," a
brisk stout woman, with great strength of character in her strong features,
black eyes, and straight black hair. Her neighbors declared that she was
the "main stake" in the "Tyler fence."

The children were "Mandy Calline," the eldest, and her mother's special
pride, built on the same model with her mother; Joseph Zachariah, a
long-legged youth; Ann Elisabeth, a lanky girl; Susan Jane, and Jeems
Henry, or "Little Jim," to distinguish him from his father; and last, but
by no means least in the household, came the baby. When she was born Mrs.
Tyler declared that as all the rest were named for different members of
both families, she should give this wee blossom a fancy name, and she had
the desire of her heart, and the baby rejoiced in the name of Elthania
Mydora, docked off into "Thancy" for short.

They had risen from the table, and Father Tyler had hastened to his
mother's side as the old lady moved slowly away, and taking her arm, guided
her carefully to the house, for the eyes in the placid old face, looking
apparently straight before her, were stone-blind.

"Come, now, gals," said Mother Tyler, briskly, with the baby in her arms,
"make er hurry 'n' do up th' dishes. Come, Ann Elisabeth, go ter scrapin'
up, 'n', Mandy Calline, pour up th' dish-water."

"Ya'as, yer'd better make er hurry," squeaked "Little Jim," from his perch
in the window, "fer Mandy Calline's spectin' her beau ter-night."

"Ye'd best shet up yer clatter, Jim, lest ye know what yer talkin' erbout,"
retorted Mandy Calline, with a pout, making a dash at him with the
dish-cloth.

"Yer right, Jim," drawled Joseph Zachariah, lounging in the doorway. "I
heerd Zeke White tell 'er he was er-comin' ter-night."

"Mar--" began Mandy Calline, looking at her mother appealingly.

"Shet up, you boys," came in answer. "Zachariah, ha' ye parted th' cows 'n'
calves?"

"No, 'm."

"Then be erbout it straight erway. Jim--you Jeems Henry!"

"Ya'as, 'm," from outside the window.

"Go 'n' shet up the hen-'ouse, 'n' see ef th' black hen 'n' chickens ha'
gone ter roost in there. She'll keep stayin' out o' nights till th' fox 'll
grab 'er. Now, chillen, make 'er hurry 'n' git thee in here. Come, Thaney
gal, we'll go in th' house 'n' find pappy 'n' gra'mammy. Susan Jane, come
fetch th' baby's ole quilt 'n' spread it down on th' floor fer 'er"; and
Mother Tyler repaired to the house with the baby in her arms.

"Why, mother, ye in here by yerself? I tho't Jeems Henry was with yer."

"Ya'as, Malviny, he was tell er minit ergo, 'n' he stepped out to th' lot,"
replied the old lady, in tones so like the expression of her face, mildly
calm, that it was a pleasure to hear her speak.

"Ha" ye got thet baby wi' ye?"

"Ya'as, 'm."

"I wish ye'd put her on my lap. Gra'mammy 'ain't had 'er none ter-day."

"Ya'as, 'm, in er minit. Run, Susan Jane, 'n' fetch er cloth ter wipe 'er
face 'n' han's; they're that stuck up wi' merlasses, ter say nothin' o'
dirt. Therey, therey, now! Mammy's gal don't want ter hev 'er face washed?
Hu! tu! tu! Thaney mustn't cry so. Where's Jeff? Here, Jeff--here, Jeff!
Ole bugger-man, come down the chimbly 'n' ketch this bad gal. You'd better
hush. I tell yer he's er-comin'. Here, Susan Jane, take th' cloth. There,
gra'mammy; there's jest es sweet er little gal es ye'd find in er dog's
age." And the old lady at once cuddled the little one in her arms, swinging
back and forth in her home-made rocker, and crooning an old-time baby song.

"Here, Susan Jane, han' me my knittin' from th' table, 'n' go 'n' tell Jim
ter pitch in some pine knots 'n' make er light in here, 'n' be quick erbout
it"; and Mother Tyler settled herself in another home-made rocker and began
to knit rapidly.

This was the night-work of the female portion of the family, and numerous
stockings of various colors and in various stages of progress were stuck
about the walls of the room, which boasted neither ceiling nor lath and
plaster, making convenient receptacles between the posts and
weather-boarding for knitting-work, turkey-tail fans, bunches of herbs for
drying, etc.

A pine-knot fire was soon kindled on the hearth, and threw its flickering
shadows on the room and its occupants as the dusk gathered in.

Mandy Calline and Elisabeth, running a race from the kitchen, burst into
the back door, halting in a good-natured tussle in the entry.

"Stop that racket, you gals," called out the mother; and as they came in
with suppressed bustle, panting with smothered laughter, she asked,
briskly, "Have ye shet up everything 'n' locked th' kitchen door?"

"Ya'as, 'm," replied Mandy Calline; "'n' here's th' key on th'
mantel-shelf." She then disappeared up the stairs which came down into the
sitting-room behind the back door.

"Come, Ann Elisabeth, git yer knittin'. Git your'n too, Susan Jane."

"Yer'll ha' ter set th' heel fer me, mar," said Susan Jane, hoping
privately that she would be too busy to do so.

"Fetch it here," from the mother, dashed the hope incontinently.

"I think we're goin' ter ha' some fallin' weather in er day er two; sky
looks ruther hazy, 'n' I heerd er rain-crow ter-day, 'n' ther's er circle
roun' th' moon," observed Father Tyler as he entered, and hanging his hat
on a convenient nail in a post, seated himself in the corner opposite his
mother.

"Ha' ye got th' fodder all in?" queried his wife, with much interest.

"Ya'as; finished ter-day; that's all safe; but er rain 'ould interfere
mightily wi' pickin' out cotton up in th' swamp, 'n' it's openin, mighty
fast; shouldn't be s'prised ef some er that swamp don't fetch er bale ter
th' acre, 'n' we'll have er right purty lot o' cotton, even atter th'
rent's paid out"; and Father Tyler, with much complacency, lighted his pipe
with a coal from the hearth.

"Th' gals 'll soon ha' this erround th' house all picked out; they got
purty nigh over it ter-day, 'n' ther'll likely be one more scatterin'
pickin'," said Mother Tyler.

Here a starched rustling on the stairs betokened the descent of Mandy
Calline. Pushing back the door, she stepped down with all the dignity which
she deemed suitable to don with her present attire.

A new calico dress of a blue ground, with a bright yellow vine rambling up
its lengths, adorned her round, plump figure; her glossy black hair was
plaited, and surmounted with a huge red bow, the ends of which fluttered
out bravely; as she stepped slowly into the room, busying herself pulling a
basting out of her sleeve.

"Well, Mandy Calline," began her mother, "ef I do say it myself, yer frock
fits jest as nice as can be. Looks like ye had been melted 'n' run into it.
Nice langth, too," eying her critically from head to foot.

"Ya'as, 'm; 'n' it's comf'ble, too; ain't too tight ner nothin'," giving
her shoulders a little twitch, and moving her arms a bit.

"I guess th' boys 'll ha' ter look sharp ef that gal sets 'er cap at any on
'em," put in Father Tyler, gazing proudly at his first-born, whereupon a
toss of her head set the ribbon ends fluttering as she moved with great
dignity across the room to the fireplace.

"Come, let me feel, dearie," said the old lady, softly, turning her
sightless eyes toward the girl, hearing her movements in her direction.

"Ya'as, gra'mammy," and stepping nearer, she knelt at her grandmother's
feet, and leaning forward, rested her hands lightly on her shoulders.

The old wrinkled hands groped their way to the girl's face, thence
downward, over her arms, her waist, to the skirt of her dress.

"It feels nice, dearie, 'n' I know it looks nice."

"I'm glad ye like it, gra'mammy," said the girl, gently.

"Air ye spectin' comp'ny, dearie, that ye're all dressed up so nice? 'Pears
like ye wouldn't put on yer new frock lest ye wer'."

Noting the girl's hesitation, the old lady said, softly, "Whisper 'n' tell
gra'-mammy who's er-comin'"; and Mandy Calline, with an additional shade to
the red in her cheeks, leaned forward and shyly whispered a name in her
grandmother's ear.

A satisfactory smile broke like sunshine over the kind old face, and she
murmured: "He's come o' good fambly, dearie. I knowed 'em all years ago.
Smart, stiddy, hard-workin', kind, well-ter-do people. I've been thinkin'
he's been er-comin' here purty stiddy, 'n' I knowed in my min' he warn't
er-comin' ter see Zachariah."

Bestowing a kiss on one aged cheek and a gentle pat on the other, Mandy
Calline arose to her feet, and lighting a splinter at the fire, opened the
door in the partition separating the two rooms and entered the "parlor."

This room was the pride of the family, as none of the neighbors could
afford one set apart specially for company.

It was the only room in the house lathed and plastered. Mother Tyler, who
was truly an ambitious woman, had, however, declared in the pride of her
heart that this one at least should be properly finished.

Mandy Calline, with her blazing splinter, lighted the lamp, quite a gay
affair, with a gaudily painted shade, and bits of red flannel with
scalloped edges floating about in the bowl.

The floor was covered with a neatly woven rag carpet of divers gay colors.
Before the hearth, which displayed a coat of red ochre, lay a home-made rug
of startling pattern. The fireplace was filled with cedar boughs and
sweet-smelling myrtle. Two "boughten" rocking-chairs of painted wood
confronted each other primly from opposite ends of the rug. Half a dozen
straight-back chairs, also "boughten," were disposed stiffly against the
walls. A large folding-leaf dining-table of real mahogany, an heirloom in
the family, occupied the space between two windows, and held a few
scattered books.

The windows were covered with paper curtains of a pale blue tint. In the
centre of each a festive couple, a youth and damsel, of apparently Bohemian
type, with clasped hands held high, disported themselves in a frantic
dance. These pictures were considered by the entire neighborhood as resting
triumphantly on the top round of the ladder of art.

Both parlor and sitting-room opened on a narrow piazza on the front of the
house, Father Tyler not caring to waste space in a hall or passage.

Mandy Calline had flicked a bit of imaginary dust from the polished surface
of the table, had set a bit straighter, if that were possible, one or two
of the chairs, and turned up the lamp a trifle higher, when "Little Jim"
opened the door leading out on the piazza, and in tones of suppressed
excitement half whispered, "He's er-comin', Mandy Calline; Zeke's
er-comin'; he's nigh 'bout ter th' gate."

"Go 'long, Jim, 'n' shet up; ye allers knows more'n the law allows," said
his sister; but she glanced quickly and shyly out of the door.

Mr. Ezekiel White was just entering the gate. He was undoubtedly gotten up
at vast expense for the occasion. A suit of store clothes of a startling
plaid adorned his lanky figure, and a pair of new shoes cramped his feet in
the most approved style. A new felt hat rested lightly on his well-oiled
hair. But the crowning glory was a flaming red necktie which flowed in
blazing magnificence over his shirt front.

Jeff, the yard dog, barked in neighborly fashion, as though yelping a
greeting to a frequent visitor whom he recognized as a favored one.

"Susan Jane," said the father, "step ter th' door 'n' see who Jeff's
er-barkin' at."

Eagerly the girl dropped her knitting and hastened to reconnoitre, curious
herself.

"It's Zeke White," she replied, returning to her work.

"I knowed Mandy Calline was spectin' him," muttered Ann Elisabeth, under
her breath.

Father Tyler arose and sauntered to the door, calling out: "You Jeff, ef ye
don't stop that barkin'--Come here this minit, sir! Good-evenin', Zekle;
come in."

"Good-evenin", Mr. Tyler. Is Zachariah ter home?"

"I dun'no'. Malviny, is Zachariah erroun' anywher's 'at ye know of?"

"I dun'no'; I hain't seed 'im sence supper."

"I know," piped up "Little Jim." "He said es he was er-goin' ter Bill
Jackson's. But, Zeke," he added, in a hurried aside, catching hold of the
visitor's coat in his eagerness, "Mandy Calline's ter home, 'n' she's fixed
up ter kill!"

At this juncture Mandy Calline herself appeared in the doorway, striving to
look calmly indifferent at everything in general and nothing in particular;
but the expression in her bright black eyes was shifty, and the color in
her cheeks vied with that of the bow on her hair; and by this time Zekle's
entire anatomy exposed to view shared the tint of his brilliant necktie.

"Good-evenin', Zekle," said the girl, bravely assuming a calm superiority
to all embarrassment and confusion. "Will ye come in th' parlor, er had ye
ruther set out on th' piazza?"

Zekle was wise; he knew that "Little Jim" dare not intrude on the sacred
precincts of the parlor, and he answered, "I'd jest es live set in th'
parlor, of it's all th' same ter you."

"Ya'as, I'd jest es live," she replied, and led the way into the room; he
followed, and sat down in rather constrained fashion on the chair nearest
the door, deposited his hat on the floor beside him, took from his pocket
and unfolded with a flirt an immense bandanna handkerchief, highly redolent
of cheap cologne, and proceeded to mop his face with it.

"It's ruther warm," he observed.

"Ya'as," she replied, from a rocking-chair in the corner facing him. Here
there was a long pause, and presently she added, "Pappy said es how he
tho't it mought rain in er day er two."

The family in the sitting-room had settled down, the door being closed
between that room and the parlor.

"There, mother, gi' Thaney ter me," said Mother Tyler. "I know ye're tired
holdin' of her, fer she ain't no light weight," and she lifted the little
one away.

"Heigho, Thaney, air ye erwake yit?" questioned the father.

"Erwake! Ya'as, 'n' likely ter be," said the mother. "Thaney's one o' th'
setters-up, she is."

"Give 'er ter me, Malviny. Don't pappy's gal want er ride on pappy's foot?
See 'ere, now! Whoopee!" and placing the plump little body astride his
foot, the leg of which crossed the other, and clasping the baby hands in
his, he tossed her up and down till she crowed and laughed in a perfect
abandon of baby glee. A smiling audience looked on in joyous sympathy with
the baby's pleasure, the old gra'mammy murmuring softly, "It's like feelin'
the sunshine ter hear her laugh!"

"There, pappy," said Mother Tyler, anxiously, "that'll do; ye're goin' ter
git 'er so wide-erwake there'll be no doin' er thing with 'er. Come, now,
Thaney, let mammy put ye down here on yer quilt. Come, come, I _know_ ye've
forgot that ole bugger-man that stays up th' chimbly 'n' ketches bad gals!
There, now, that's mammy's nice gal. Git 'er playthings fer 'er, Susan
Jane. Jim, don't ye go ter sleep there in that door. Ha' ye washed yer
feet?"

"No, 'm," came drowsily from the doorway.

"Why upon th' yeth do ye wait every blessed night ter be told ter wash yer
feet? Go straight 'n' wash 'em, 'n' then go ter bed. Come, gals, knit ter
th' middle 'n' put up yer knittin'; it's time for all little folks ter go
ter sleep 'n' look for ter-morrer. 'Pears like Thaney's goin' ter look fer
it with eyes wide open."

"Malviny, ye'll have ter toe up my knittin' fer me, Monday; I've got it
down ter th' narrerin', 'n' I can't do no more," came softly from
gra'mammy's corner.

"Ya'as, mother, I will; I could ha' toed it up this evenin' es well es not,
tho' ef I had, ye'd ha' started ernuther, 'n' ye'd need ter rest; ye're
allers knittin'."

"Ya'as, but, darter, it's all I kin do; 'n' I'm so thankful I kin feel ter
knit, fer th' hardest work is ter set wi' folded han's doin' nothin'."

"Well, mother, it's but sildom that I ever knowed yer ter set with folded
han's," remarked her son, with proud tenderness.

"Maybe, Jeems Henry; but I never tuck no consait ter myself fer workin',
because I jest nachally loved it. Yer pappy use ter say I was er born
worker, 'n' how he did use ter praise me fer bein' smart! 'n' that was sich
er help! Somehow I've minded me of 'im all day ter-day--of th' time when he
logged Whitcombe's mill down on Fallin' Crick. 'Twas--lemme see! Jeems
Henry, ye're how ole?"

"Fifty-two my las' birthday."

"Well, that was fifty-one year ergo. You was all th' one I had then, 'n'
yer pappy was erway from home all th' week, 'cept from Sat'day evenin' tell
'fore day Monday monrin'. Melindy White staid wi' me; she was Zekle's
great-aunt, 'n' er ole maid, 'n' people did say she was monst'ous cross 'n'
crabbed, but she warn't never cross ter me. I mind me of er Sat'day, 'n'
I'd be spectin' of yer pappy home. I'd git up at th' fust cock-crow, 'n' go
wake Melindy, 'n' she'd grumble 'n' laff all in er breath, 'n' say: 'Ann
Elisabeth Tyler, ye're th' most onreasonablest creeter that I ever seed!
What in natur' do ye want ter git up 'fore day fer? Jest ter make th' time
that much longer 'fore Jim Tyler comes? I know ef I was married ter th'
President I wouldn't be es big er fool es ye air.' But, la! she'd git up
jest ter pleasure me, 'n' then sich cleanin' up, 'n' sich cookin' o' pies
'n' cakes 'n' chickens, 'n' gittin' ready fer yer pappy ter come!" And the
placid old face fairly glowed with the remembrance. "'N' I mind me," she
crooned on, "of th' time when ye fust begun ter talk; I was er whole week
er-teachin' yer ter say two words; I didn't do much else. Melindy allowed
that I'd gone clean daft; 'n' when Sat'day come, 'long erbout milkin'-time,
I put on er pink caliker frock. I 'member it jest es well! it had little
white specks on the pink; he bought it at Miggs's Crossroads, 'n' said I
allers looked like er rose in it. I tuck ye in my arms 'n' went down ter
th' bars, where I allers stood ter watch fer 'im; he come in er boat ter
th' little landin' 'n' walked home, erbout er mile; 'n' when I seed 'im
comin', 'n' he'd got nigh ernuff, I whispered ter ye, 'n' ye clapped yer
little han's, 'n' fairly shouted out, 'Pappy's tumin'! pappy's tumin'!'
Dearie me, dearie me; I kin see 'im now so plain! He broke inter er run,
'n' I stepped over th' bars ter meet 'im, 'n' he gethered us both in his
arms, like es of he'd never turn loose; then he car'ied ye up to th' house
on one arm, the other one roun' my wais', 'n' he made ye say it over 'n'
over--'Pappy's tumin', pappy's tumin';' 'n' Melindy 'lowed we wer' 'th'
biggest pair o' geese'; but we was mighty happy geese jest th' same."

There was a pause. They were all listening. Then she went on. "Somehow
ter-day I felt like I use ter of er Sat'-day then, kinder spectin' 'n'
light-hearted. I dun'no' why; I ain't never felt so befo' in all these
years sence he died--forty-one on 'em; 'n' fifteen sence th' Lord shet down
th' dark over my eyes, day 'n' night erlike. Well, well; I've had er heap
ter be thankful fer; th' Lord has been good ter me; fer no mother ever had
er better son than ye've allers ben, Jeems Henry; 'n' of Malviny had er ben
my own darter, she couldn't er ben more like one; I've alleys ben tuck keer
on, 'n' waited on, 'n' 'ain't never ben sat erside fer no one. Ya'as, th'
Lord's ben good ter me." She began to fumble for her handkerchief.

"But, mother, ye don't say nothin' o' what er blessin' ye've ben to us,"
said her son. "Ye've teached us many er lesson by yer patience in yer
blindness."

"Ya'as, but, Jeems Henry, I had no call ter be nothin' else but patient; I
had no call ter be onreasonable 'n' fret 'n' worry 'n' say that th' Lord
had forsakened me when He hadn't. I knowed I'd only ter bide my time, 'n'
I'm now near seventy-two year old. Dear, dear, how th' time goes! Seems
like only th' other day when I was married! Was that nine the clock
struck?"

"Ya'as, 'm."

"Well, I b'lieve I'll git ter bed."

"Wait, mother, let me help yer," said her daughter, hastily throwing aside
her knitting.

"We'll both help ye, mother," said her son, putting one arm gently around
her as she arose from her chair.

"Well, well," she laughed, with soft content. "I sh'll be well waited on
with two children 'stid er one; but none too many--none too many."

Zekle White had made brave progress from the chair by the door to the other
rocker, drawn closely beside that of Mandy Calline; and he was saying, in
tones that suggested an effort: "I've seed other young ladies which may be
better-lookin' in other folkses' eyes, 'n' they may be more suiterbler ter
marry, but not fer me. Thar ain't but one gurl in this roun' worl' that I'd
ask ter be my wife, 'n', Mandy Calline, I've ben keepin' comp'ny wi' you
long ernuff fer ye ter know that ye air th' one." He swallowed, and went
on: "I've got my house nigh erbout done. Ter be sho', 'tain't es fine es
this un, nor es big; but I kin add ter it, 'n' jest es soon es it is done I
want ter put my wife in it. Now, Mandy Calline, what yer say--will yer be
my wife?"

Mandy Calline looked shy--much like a young colt when it is going to break
out of harness. She rocked back and forth with short spasmodic jerks, and
twisted her handkerchief into all conceivable shapes.

"Yer don't know how sot on it I am," he went on; "'n' all day long I'm
er-thinkin' how nice it 'll be when I'm er-workin', ploughin' maybe, up one
row 'n' down ernuther, 'n' watchin' th' sun go down, 'n' lookin' forerd ter
goin' ter th' house 'n' hev er nice little wife ter meet me, wi' everything
tidied up 'n' cheerful 'n' comf'ble." Mandy Calline simply drooped her head
lower, and twisted her handkerchief tighter. "Mandy Calline, don't yer say
'no,'" he said. "I love yer too well ter give yer up easy; 'n' I swear ef
ye don't say `yes,' I'll set fire 'n' burn up th' new house, fer no other
'oman sha'n't never live there. I'm er-waitin', Mandy Calline, 'n' don't,
don't tell me no."

"Well, Zekle," she began, with much hesitation, "bein' es how I don't see
no use in burnin' up er right new house, 'n' it not even finished, I guess
es how--maybe--in erbout two or three years--"

"Two or three thunderations!" he cried out, ecstatically, seizing both her
hands in his. "Yer mean two or three weeks! Mandy Calline, do ye mean
ya'as, ye'll marry me? I want ter hear ye say it."

"Ya'as, Zekle," she said, shyly. "Whoopee! I feel like I'd like ter jump up
'n' knock my heels tergether 'n' yell!"

"Yer'd better try it er spell." she said, smiling at him shyly, "'n' jest
see how soon ye'd ha' th' hull fambly er-rushin' in ter see what was the
matter."

Hereupon came the ominous sound of Father Tyler winding the clock in the
sitting-room; Zekle knew 'twas a signal for him to depart.

"Well," slowly rising, "I guess I got ter go, but I do mortally hate ter.
Come ter th' door wi' me, Mandy Calline"; and taking her hand, he drew her
up beside him, but she stood off a bit skittishly, and he knew that it
would be useless to ask the question which was trembling on his lips, so,
quick as a flash, he dropped one arm around her waist, tipped up her chin
with the other hand, and kissed her square on the mouth before she fairly
knew what he was about.

"You Zekle White!" she cried out, snatching herself from his arm and
bestowing a rousing slap on his face.

"I knowed ye wouldn't give me one, so I tuck it jest so. Good-night tell
ter-morrer, Mandy Calline; I'm goin' home 'n' dream erbout ye."

The next morning dawned bright and soft. A perfect September morning.
Father Tyler and the boys were at the lot feeding and milking. Mandy
Calline was cleaning up the house, her comely face aglow with her new-found
happiness. Susan Jane attended to the baby, while Ann Elisabeth helped her
mother "get breakfast."

"Gra'mammy was sleepin' so nice when I got up," said the girl, "that I
crep' out 'n' didn't wake 'er. Had I better go see of she's erwake now,
mar? Breakfus is nigh erbout done."

"Not yet. Go tell Mandy Calline ter git th' milk-pitcher 'n' go to the
cow-pen 'n' fetch some milk fer breakfus. No tellin' when they'll git thoo
out there. Then you hurry back 'n' finish fryin' that pan o' pertaters. No
need ter 'sturb gra'mammy till breakfus is ready ter put on th' table; 'n'
yer pappy 'n' th' boys'll ha' ter wash when they come from th' lot." And
Mother Tyler opened the stove door and put in a generous pan of biscuits to
bake.

Mandy Calline, with the milk-pitcher in her hand, hurried out to the
cow-pen, which adjoined the stable lot. Her father was milking, Jim holding
the calves. Zachariah was in the lot feeding the horse and pigs. She had
just stepped over the bars into the pen, when who should appear, sauntering
up, but Zeke White! He assumed a brave front, and with hands thrust in his
pantaloons pockets, came up, whistling softly.

"Good-mornin', Zekle," greeted Father Tyler, rising from his stooping
position.

"Good-mornin', Mr. Tyler. Fine mornin'."

"Ya'as; but I'm erfeared we're goin' ter hev rain in er day er two. I feel
ruther rheumaticky this mornin', er mighty shore sign that rain ain't fur
off. Want milk fer breakfus, Mandy Calline? Well, fetch here yer pitcher."

A shy "good-mornin"' had passed between Mandy Calline and Zekle, and he
sauntered up beside her, taking the pitcher, and as they stepped over the
bars Father Tyler, hospitably inclined, said: "Take breakfus with us,
Zekle? I lay Malviny 'll hev ernuff cooked ter give yer er bite."

With assumed hesitation Zekle accepted the invitation, and he and Mandy
Calline passed on to the house, he carefully carrying the pitcher of milk.

He cleared his throat a time or two, and remarked again on the beauty of
the morning, to which she rather nervously assented; then suddenly, the
words seemingly shot out of him: "Mandy Calline, I'm goin' ter ask th' ole
folks ter-day. What yer say?"

Mandy Calline was red as a turkey-cock, to which was now added a nervous
confusion which bade fair to overwhelm her.

"It's too soon, Zekle. Whyn't yer wait er while?" she replied, tremblingly.

"No, 'tain't too soon," he answered, promptly. "I want it all done 'n' over
with, then I sh'll feel mo' like ye b'long ter me. I'm goin' ter ask 'em
ter-day; yer needn't say not. I know you're erfeared o' th' teasin'. But ye
needn't min' that; ye won't hev ter put up wi' it long; fer th' way I mean
ter work on that house ter git it done--well, 'twon't be long befo' it 'll
be ready ter put my wife in it."

"Well, Zekle," said the girl, hesitatingly, "ef ye'd ruther ask 'em
ter-day, why--I guess es how--ye mought es well do it. But let's go 'n'
tell gra'mammy now; somehow I'd ruther she knowed it fust."

"We will," replied Zekle, promptly.

*       *       *       *       *

Mother Tyler was putting breakfast on the table. She suddenly paused and
listened. Something was the matter. There were cries that betokened
trouble. She hastened to the house, followed her husband and the boys on to
gra'mammy's room, and there on the bed, in peaceful contrast to all this
wailing and sorrow, lay dear old gra'mammy, dead. The happiest smile
glorified the kind old withered face, and the wrinkled hands lay crossed
and still on her breast. She had truly met the husband of her youth, and
God had opened in death the eyes so darkened in life.




My Fifth in Mammy


By William Ludwell Sheppard

I never knew a time in which I did not know Mammy. She was simply a part of
my consciousness; it seems to me now a more vivid one in my earliest years
than that of the existence of my parents. We five, though instructed by an
elder sister in the rudiments of learning, spent many more of our waking
hours with Mammy; and whilst we drew knowledge from one source, we derived
the greater part of our pleasure from the other--that is, outside of our
playmates.

The moments just preceding bedtime, in which we were undergoing the process
of disrobing at the hands of Mammy, were periods of dreadful pleasure to
us. As I look back upon them, I wonder that we got any sleep at all after
some of her recitals. They were not always sanguinary or ghostly, and of
course when I scan them in the light of later years, it is apparent that
Mammy, like the majority of people, "without regard to color or previous
condition of servitude," suffered her walk and conversation to be
influenced by her state of health, mental and bodily. Her walk--I am afraid
I must admit, as all biographers seem privileged to deal with the frailties
of their victims as freely as with their virtues--her walk, viewed through
the medium already alluded to, did not owe its occasional uncertainty to
"very coarse veins," though that malady, with a slight phonetic difference,
Mammy undoubtedly suffered from, in common with the facts. She was a great
believer in "dram" as a remedial agent, and homoeopathic practice was
unknown with us at that period.

Mammy's code of laws for our moral government was one of threats of being
"repoated to ole mahster," tempered by tea of her own making dulcified by
brown sugar of fascinating sweetness, anecdote, and autobiography.

The anecdotal part consisted almost exclusively of the fascinating
rpertoire of Uncle Remus. Indeed, to know the charm of that chronicle is
reserved to the man or woman whose childhood dates from the _ante bellum_
period, and who had a Mammy.

In the autobiographical part Mammy spread us a chilling feast of horrors,
varied by the supernatural. Long years after this period I read a protest
in some Southern paper against this practice in the nursery, with its
manifest consequences on the minds of children. It set me to wondering how
it was that the consequences in my day seemed inappreciable. I do not
understand it now. Some of Mammy's stories would have been bonanzas to a
police reporter of today; others would have bred emulation in Edgar Poe.
And yet I do not recall any subsequent terrors.

An account of the execution of some pirates, which she had witnessed when a
"gal," was popular. She had a rhyme which condensed the details. The
condemned were Spaniards:

  Pepe hung, Qulo fell,
  Felix died and went to ----

Mammy always gave the rhyme with awful emphasis.

She had had an experience before coming into our family, by purchase, which
gave her easy precedence over all the mammies of all our friends. To be
sure, it was an experience which the other mammies, as "good membahs of de
chutch," regarded as unholy; one which they congratulated themselves would
never lie on their consciences, and of which poor Mammy was to die
unshriven in their minds; for she never became a "sister," so far as I ever
learned.

But to us this experience was fruitful of many happy hours. Mammy had been
tire-woman to Mrs. Gilfert, the reigning star of that date, at the old
Marshall Theatre--the successor to one burnt in 1811.

The habit of the stock companies in those days was to remain the whole
season, sometimes two or more, so Mammy had the opportunity to "assist" at
the entire repertoire. It is one of the regrets of my life that I am not
able to recall verbatim Mammy's arguments of the play, her descriptions of
some of the actors, and her comments.

For some reason, when later on I wished to refresh my memory of these,
Mammy had either forgotten them or suspected the intention of my asking.
She ranked her experiences at the theatre along with her account of the
adventures of the immortal "Mollie Cottontail" (for we did not know him as
"Brer Rabbit"), and the rest of her lore, I suppose, and so could not
realize that my maturer mind would care for any of them.

When I had subsequently made some acquaintance with plays, or read them, I
recognized most of those described by Mammy. Some remain unidentified.
Hamlet she preserved in name. Whilst she had no quotations of the words,
she had a vivid recollection of the ghost scenes, and "pisenin' de king's
ear." She also gave us scenes in which "one uv them kings was hollerin' for
his horse"--plainly Richard. Julius Caesar she easily kept in mind, as some
acquaintance of her color bearing that name was long extant. I can still
conjure up her tones and manner when she declaimed "'Dat you, Brutus?' An'
he done stick him like de rest uv um; and him raised in de Caesar fam'ly
like he wuz a son!"

The ingratitude of the thing struck through our night-gowns even then.

The period when Mammy's sway weakened was indeterminate. We boys after a
while swapped places with Mammy, and made her the recipient of our small
pedantries. I do not recollect, however, that we were ever cruel enough to
throw her ignorance up to her.

At last the grown-up sisters absorbed all of Mammy's spare time. Sympathy
was kept up between them after her bond with us was loosened, and they even
took hints from her in matters of the toilet that were souvenirs of her
stage days.

In the course of time reverses and bereavements came to the family. The
girls had grown to womanhood and matrimony, and had begun their new lives
in other places. Then came the inevitable to the elders, and it became
necessary to convert all property into cash.

We were happy in being able to retain a good many of our household gods,
and they are the Lares and Penates of our several homes to this day. We had
long since ceased to think of Mammy Becky--she was never Rebecca--as
property. In fact, we younger ones never thought of her as such. By law we
were each entitled to a fifth in Mammy.

This came upon us in the nature of a shock at a family consultation on ways
and means, and there was a disposition on the part of every party to the
ownership to shift that responsibility to another.

I must do ourselves the justice to say that such a thing as converting
Mammy into cash, and thus making her divisible, never for a moment entered
our minds. It seemed, however, that the difficulty had occurred to her.

We all felt so guilty, when Mammy served tea that last evening, that we
were sure she read our thoughts in our countenances. It would be nearer the
truth to say that it was rather our fears that she should ever come to the
knowledge that the word "sale" had been coupled with her name.

The next day we were to scatter, and it was imperative that some
disposition should be made of Mammy. The old lady--for old we deemed her,
though she could scarcely have been fifty--went calmly about the house
looking to the packing of the thousand and one things, and not only
looking, but using her tongue in language expressing utter contempt for all
"lazy niggers" of these degenerate days--referring to the temporary "help."
The eldest sister was deputed to approach and sound Mammy on the momentous
question.

The deputy went on her mission in fear and trembling. The interview was
easily contrived in the adjoining room.

We were exceedingly embarrassed when we discovered that Mammy's part of the
dialogue was perfectly audible. As for the sister's, her voice could be
barely heard. So that the effect to the unwilling eavesdropper was that
which we are familiar with in these days of hearing a conversation at the
telephone.

"Don't you bother yo'self 'bout me, Miss Frances."

Interval.

"No, marm. I'd ruther stay right here in dis town whar ev'body knows me.
Doan yawl study 'bout me."

Several bars' rest, apparently.

"Yes'm, I know hit's yo' duty to look after me, an' I belongs to all of
you; but Ise concluded to let yawl off. You can't divide me into five
parts, an' they ain' nah one uv you 'titled to any partickler part if you
could; most uv me ain't much 'count nohow, what with very coarse veins an'
so fothe. Oh, yes'm! I done study 'bout it plenty, an' I done concluded
that I'll let yawl off an' do fur myself. You know I'm a prime cake-maker,
bread-maker, an' kin do a whole pahcel uv other things besides; an' dress
young ladies for parties, whar I learnt at the ole the-etter, which they
built it after the fust one burnt up and all dem people whar dey got the
Monnymental Chutch over um now; an' any kind of hair-dress-in', curlin' wid
irons or quince juice, an' so fothe. No, don't you bother 'bout me."

So Mammy was installed in a small house in a portion of the city occupied
by a good many free people, and, as we subsequently ascertained, not
bearing a very savory reputation.

We had heard it rumored that there were some suitors for Mammy's hand. She
had always avowed that she had been a "likely gal," but we had to take her
word for this, as she had very slender claims to "likelihood"--if the word
suits hers--in our remembrance. She was nearly a mulatto--very "light
gingerbread," or "saddle-colored"--and a widow of some years' standing.
Still, there was no accounting for tastes amongst the colored folks, any
more than there was amongst the whites in this matter. We surmised that
some of the aspirants suspected Mammy of having a _dot_, the accumulation
of many perquisites for her assistance on wedding occasions. It may be
remarked that she had no legal right to demand anything for such services.

One of the sisters approached Mammy timidly on this subject, and was
assured positively by her that "they ain't no nigger in the whole
university whar I would marry. No, ma'm. I done got 'nough of um."

We knew that Mammy's married life had been a stormy one. Her husband,
Jerry, had been a skilful coach-painter, and got good wages for his master,
who was liberal in the 'lowance that was made by all generous owners to
slaves of this class. Jerry was a fervent "professor," who came home drunk
nearly every night, and never failed to throw up to Mammy her dangerous
spiritual condition. Jerry was so vulnerable a subject that Mammy was
prepared to score some strong points against him. He invariably met these
retorts with roars of laughter and loud assertions of his being "in grace
once for all."

*       *       *       *       *

Left the sole representative of my family in the city, I had to start a new
establishment, just as Mammy did.

I made a visit to hers a few days after our separation, and came away with
my heart in my mouth at the sight of some of the familiar objects of
Mammy's room, and such of our own as she had fallen heir to, in strange
places and appositions. I also felt that Mammy's room had a more homelike
aspect than my own.

There was no doubt that Mammy enjoyed her new conditions and surroundings.
She had been provided with a paper signed by some of us, stating that it
was with our permission that she lived to herself. This secured her free
movement at all times--the privilege of very few of her race not legally
manumitted.

Her visits to me were quite frequent, and she never failed to find
something that needed putting to rights, and putting it so immediately,
with fierce comments on the worthlessness of all "high-lands," which was
_negroce_ for hirelings--a class held in contempt by the servants owned in
families.

I think that Mammy must have discovered the fact that my estate was
somewhat deteriorated.

I was painfully conscious of this myself, and saw no prospect of its
amelioration. The little cash that had come to me was quite dissipated, and
my meagre salary was insufficient to satisfy my artificial wants--the only
ones that a young man cannot dispense with and be happy.

In spite of the opinion prevailing in those days, that when a young man
embraced the career of an artist it was a farewell to all hope of a sober
and prosperous career, my father had been willing for me to follow my
manifest bent, and I was to sacrifice a university career as the
alternative. But the last enemy stepped between me and my hopes, and there
was nothing for it but to go to work.

I had an ardent admirer in Mammy, who, in her innocence of a proper
standard, frequently compared my productions to a "music back" or a tobacco
label. That was before the days of chromos.

Mammy turned up Sunday mornings to look after my buttons. Those were days
of fond reminiscence and poignant regret on my part.

"Seems to me hit's time for you to be getting some new shirts, Mahs
William," she said, one Sunday morning. Mammy touched me sorely there. A
crisis was certainly impending in my lingerie.

"Oh, I reckon not. You must have got hold of a bad one, Mammy."

"I got hole uv all uv um what is out uv wash; and them gwine. The buttons
is shackledy on all uv um, too. I wish I wuz a washer; then you wouldn't
have to give yo' clothes out to these triflin' huzzies whar rams a iron
over yo' things like they wuz made uv iron too."

"I suppose that you are getting along pretty well, Mammy," I remarked,
irrelevantly.

"Oh, I kain' complain. I made two dollars an' five an' threppence out'n the
Scott party last week; an' I hear tell uv some new folks on Franklin Street
gwine give a big party, an' I'm spectin' somethin' out uv dat. Lawdy,
Lawdy, Mahs William," she added, after a pause given to reflection, "hit
certainly does 'muse me to see how some 'r dese people done come up. But
they kain' fool me. I knows what's quality in town an' what ain't. I can
reckermember perfick when some uv these vay folks, when dey come to your
pa's front do', never expected to be asked in, but jess wait thar 'bout
their business ontwell yo' pa got ready to talk to um at the do'. Yes, sah.
I bin see some uv dese vay people's daddies"--Mammy used this word
advisedly--"kayin' their vittles in a tin bucket to their work; that what I
bin see."

I was shaving during this monologue of Mammy's, with my back to her. A
sudden exclamation of the name of the Lord made me start around and
endanger my nose. I was not startled at the irreverence of the expression,
however, as sacred names were familiar interjections of Mammy's, as of all
her race.

"Ev'y button off'n these draw's," Mammy answered to my alarmed
question--alarmed because I anticipated some disaster to my wardrobe.
"Hit's a mortal shame. I'll take 'em home, an' Monday I'll get some buttons
on Broad Street an' sew um on."

This was embarrassing. I had twelve and a half cents in Spanish silver coin
which I had reserved for the plate at church that day. I was going under
circumstances that rendered a contribution unavoidable. I hated to expose
my narrow means to Mammy, and said, carelessly, as I returned to my lather:
"Oh, never mind. Another time will do, Mammy."

"Another time! You reckermember my old sayin', don't you, 'a stitch in time
saves nine'? An' mo'n dat, bein' as this is the only clean pah you got, you
'bleest to have um next week fer de others to go to wash."

Confession was inevitable. "The fact is, Mammy, I don't happen to have any
change to-day that I can hand you for the buttons." I was thankful that my
occupation permitted me to keep my face from Mammy.

"Oh, ez fer that, Mahs William, yo' needn't bother. I got 'nough change
'round 'most all de time."

Mammy's tone was patronizing, and brought home to me such a realization of
my changed and waning fortunes as no other circumstance could have done.
Possibly I may have imagined it in my hypersensitiveness, but Mammy's voice
in that sentence seemed transformed, and it was another mammy who spoke.

I apparently reserved my protest until some intricate passage in my shaving
was passed. At least I thought that Mammy would think so. I was really
trying to put my reply in shape.

I was anticipated.

"You know you is really 'titled to yo' fif's by law, Mahs William," resumed
Mammy, in her natural manner, "because still bein' bond, you could call on
me, an' I don't begrudge you; in fact, Ise beholden to you."

"Not at all, Mammy. Don't talk any more about my fifth. You are as good as
free, you know."

"I knows that, Mahs William; but right is right, and I gwine to pay for
them buttons."

"Well, you may do that this time, Mammy, but I shall certainly return you
the money."

"Jess as you choose, Mahs William, but you's 'titled to yo' fif' all the
same."

I must note here a characteristic of Mammy's which had strengthened as her
powers failed, namely, "nearness." The euphemism applied at first, though
Mammy yielded to temptations in the way of outfit as long as she deemed
herself "likely." After that period a stronger expression was required. She
was always in possession of money, and was frequently our banker for a day,
when, in emergencies, our parents were not on hand.

Monday I found my garment with its full complement of buttons, but of such
diversity of pattern that I planned a protest for Mammy's next visit.

But when she explained that the bill was only fo'pence--six and a quarter
cents, Spanish--and that it was the fashion now, so she was told, "to have
they buttons diffunt, so they could dentrify they clothes," I settled
without remark. Mammy's financial skill and resource in imagination
condoned everything.

It is painful to record that Mammy, encouraged by immunity from inquiry and
investigation, no doubt, was tempted, as thousands of her betters have been
and will be, and yielded under subsequent and similar circumstances.

My affairs took an unexpected turn now, and circumstances which have no
place here made it possible for me to go to New York, with the intention of
studying for my long-cherished purpose of making art my calling.

I heard from Mammy from time to time--occasionally got a letter dictated by
her. They opened with the same formula, beginning with the fiction that she
"took her pen in her hand," and continuing, "these few lines leaves me
tollerbul, and hoping to find you the same." My friend, the amanuensis,
took great pleasure in reporting Mammy verbatim and phonetically. The times
were always hard for Mammy in these letters, but she "was scufflin' 'long,
thank Gawd, an' ain't don' forgot my duty to the 'state 'bout them fif's."

On my periodical visits home I always called upon her, and had a royal
reception. I had casually said in a message to her in one of my letters
that I never would forget her black tea and brown sugar. The old dame
remembered this, and on my first visit home and to her, and on all
succeeding visits, treated me to a brew of my favorite.

"Jess the same, Mahs William. Come from Mr. Blar's jess the same."

But we become sophisticated in time. I found that Mammy's tea lingered in
my memory, it is true; and the prospect of a recurrence very nearly
operated against future visits. But virtue asserted herself, and I always
went.

War now supervened. To it the brushes and the palette yielded. I returned
home, and to arms. While all this made a complete revolution in my affairs,
those of Mammy seemed to hold the even tenor of their way.

I saw Mammy every time I had a furlough, and she repaired for me damages of
long standing. In sentiment she was immovably on my side. She objected
decidedly to any more of "them no-'count men bein' sot free," and was very
doubtful whether any more of her own sex should be so favored, except
"settled women."

I do not know whether Mammy had a lurking suspicion that general
manumission meant competition or not. So far as I could make out, she fared
as she had long elected to do. Bacon and greens and her perennial tea were
good enough for her. And here may be noted the average negro's indifference
to cates. In my experience I never knew them to give up "strong food" for
delicate fare except on prescription.

The next phase of my intercourse with Mammy was after the evacuation of the
city and the event of Appomattox. The first incident was, with the negroes'
usual talent that way, so transmogrified in pronunciation that it could
mean nothing to them. It stood to them for a tremendous change, one which
could not be condensed into a word, even though it exceeded their powers to
pronounce it.

I had come back, as had thousands of others, with nothing in my hands, and
only a few days' rations accorded by the enemy in my haversack; had come
back to a mass of smoking dbris and a wide area of ruin which opened
unrecognized vistas that puzzled, dazed, and pained the home-seeker.

By instinct, I suppose, I drifted towards my _ante bellum_ quarters. My
former landlord gave me a speechless welcome. To my inquiry as to the
possibility of my reinhabiting my old quarters, he simply nodded and handed
me the key. The tears that I had seen standing on his lids rolled down as
he did so.

The room was cumbered with the chattels of the last tenant. There was no
bed amongst them, but a roll of tattered carpet served me perfectly. I fell
asleep over a slab of hardtack. That evening, on waking, I bethought me of
Mammy.

My kind host allowed me to make a toilet in his back room behind the store.
It consisted of a superficial ablution and the loan of a handkerchief.
Mammy was not in. A neighbor of her sex and color offered me a chair in her
house, but I sat in Mammy's tiny porch.

This part of the city was unchanged, but I missed a familiar steeple which
had always been visible from Mammy's door.

It was late afternoon when Mammy came. She did not recognize me, but paused
at the gate.

"Ef you's a sick soldier you must go to the hospital; you kain' stay here,"
I heard her say before I roused myself sufficiently to speak.

"Mammy."

An ejaculation of the name of the Lord that brought the neighbor to her
door went up, and Mammy caught my hands and wept.

"Come in, my Gawd! Mahs William! you ain' hurted, is you?"

She pushed a chair to me and took one herself. For a few moments she
confined herself to ejaculations of "Well! well! well!" and the name of the
Deity. Then, "The town is bu'nt up; the army done 'rendered, an' Mahs
William come back ragged ez a buzzard!"

I did not interrupt her. I could think of nothing to say, and began to be
afraid that something was the matter with my brains. Meanwhile Mammy was
bustling about, and before I knew it she had started the little fire into a
blaze and the tea was boiling.

The flickering light glinted over the walls. At first I did not heed what
it revealed; then I saw it glow and fade over some early efforts of my own,
frame-less crudities, to which Mammy had fallen heir. They had become old
masters! What centuries ranged themselves between the birth of those
pictures and now!

This time tea was nectar, and after I had eaten a little cold middling
bacon and hoe-cake, that she had put before me on a fractured member of our
old Canton set, I took a more cheerful view of life. I believe that I would
have shed tears over these poor relics from happier days, except that I was
not quite conscious that anything was real that day. I told Mammy where I
was. She seemed to think it perfectly in the nature of things that I should
be there. Indeed, she appeared singularly calm in this cataclysm.

I encountered friends on my return to my quarters, and had invitations
innumerable to meals and shelter. My costume was no drawback. Nobody knew
how anybody was dressed.

The city was in a fever of excitement over the probable fate of those who
had not yet returned, and in making provision for the homeless. Mammy
turned up next morning with some of my civilian clothes that had been
confided to her.

Mammy's simple "What you gwine do now, Mabs William?" thrown in whilst she
assisted by her presence at my complete change of toilet--lapse of time was
nothing to her--woke me to the momentous problem. There was no commissary
sergeant to distribute even the meagre rations that so long left us
ravenous after every meal. I could not camp in the Capitol Square, even if
I had wished so to do.

Mammy left me with the injunction to call on her "ef I didn't have nowhar
else to go."

I went with unbroken fast to see what was left of the city. I met many
acquaintances on the same errand. None of us seemed to realize that day
what was to be done. For four years our campaigns had been planned for us.

I learned from one acquaintance, however, that I could have rations for the
asking, and not long after found myself in line at the United States
Commissary Department, along with hundreds of others, and departed thence
bearing a goodly portion of hardtack and codfish. These I took to Mammy,
who cooked the fish for me under loud protests against the smell.

Not long thereafter a number of us paroled soldiers made a mess, and cooked
for ourselves at the room of one of them.

On one of these indeterminate days--dates had become nothing to me--I saw a
dapper young man sketching about the ruins. I spoke to him, and mentioned
that his had been my profession. This acquaintance was the beginning of
hope.

I showed the young man places of interest, gave him points about a good
many things, and at last fell to making sketches to help him out. They were
perfectly satisfactory and liberally paid for. With this capital I set
myself up in another place, which had a north light--by-the-way, I had been
dispossessed of the asylum where I first found shelter, as the previous
tenant returned. I was able to purchase material and apparel. But what was
I to paint, and where to sell the product? My hand was out, I discovered,
so I set to studying still life, and painting those of my friends who had
the patience to sit.

I would have gone back to my old haunts in New York but for the material
reason that my funds were too low, and the sentimental one that I not only
was not in the humor for appealing to citizens of that section for
patronage, but was not sure that it would not be withheld, from an
analogous state of mind towards me.

Summer ran into fall. Mammy's visits increased in frequency, and her
conversation drifted towards the difficulties of living.

I had long ago discharged all of her claims for material and repairs, but I
noticed a tendency on her part to prepare my mind for a regular subsidy. I
ignored these hints because it was impossible for me to carry out Mammy's
plan, and painful for me to say so.

She approached the matter in a different way finally, and said, one day:

"Mahs William, you been cayin' on yo' fif' for some time now. Doan you
think it's time for some of the yothers to look after them?"

I suggested that the whole family was about on a parity financially; that
one brother was drifting in the trans-Mississippi, another living more
precariously than I was. Suddenly a thought struck me, and I proposed that
Mammy should apply to my married sister in the country, who could at least
give her a home.

Mammy was very nearly indignant in her rejection of the proposition.

"Me live in de country! Why, Mahs William, I'm town-bred to de backbone.
What I gwine do thar? Whar's anybody whar'll want my sponge-cake, jelly,
and blue-monge, whar I can git ez much ez I wants to do in town? Who gwine
want my clar-starchin' an' pickle-makin' an' ketchups? Dem tacky people
doan want none of my makin's."

I ventured to remind Mammy that all dwellers in the country were not
tackies.

"I know dat, sah; but whole parcel of um is. Besides, heap uv de quality
folks is poor an' in trouble sence the revackeration. I'd rather give up my
other fif's fust."

Of course Mammy's propositions were contradictory, but I had long known
that she was not gifted with a logical mind, so I made no attempt to
convict her of inconsistency.

From time to time I got small jobs of drawings for architects, as people
had begun to bestir themselves and rebuild. I had been assured that I would
find no prejudice against me in New York, but would stand on my own merits.
I was not profoundly convinced that this was a safe risk for me to take.
But living here was becoming impossible. Our own people were out of the
question as purchasers of pictures. My still-lifes, from long exposure in
the window of a friendly merchant in Broad Street, were becoming the
camping-ground of the flies, and deteriorating rapidly. I was not strong in
landscape, and the only subjects which suggested themselves were military,
taken from my point of view politically, and not likely to be convertible
into cash by persons of other convictions.

I was leaning against my ceiling one gray afternoon--at least I suppose it
should be called ceiling, for it ran from the highest part of the chamber
on an angle to the floor, and was pierced by a dormer--and contemplating a
bunch of withered flowers which I had studied almost into dissolution, when
Mammy knocked.

I had laid my palette on the floor, and was standing with my hands in my
pockets. They fumbled, on one side with my bunch of keys, on the other with
a small roll of small bills, the dreadful fractional currency of that era,
whilst, in imagination, I projected my motive on the bare canvas, a twenty
by twenty-four. I was sorry that Mammy had come, because a subject was
beginning to take form in my mind. It was suggested by the withered
flowers.

I thought that it would be a good idea to group them with a bundle of
letters, some showing age, the top one with a recent postmark, and call the
composition "Dead Hopes." My thoughts were divided between the selection of
a postmark for the top letter and the possibility of getting a frame,
whilst Mammy was going through the process of finding a chair and seating
herself. The invitation to come in implied the other courtesies.

The old lady was marvellously attired, and I wondered what could be the
occasion of it. She had on a plaid shawl of purple, green, and red
checkers, crossed on her bosom. Around her throat there was a lace collar
of some common sort, held by a breastpin of enormous value if calculated by
the square inch. She wore her usual turban of red and white, but on the top
of it to-day was a straw bonnet of about the fashion of 1835, with flowers
inside, and from it depended a green veil. Her frock was silk of an
indescribable tint, the result of years of fading, and was flounced. The
old lady had freed herself of her black cotton gloves, and was rolling them
into a ball. I sighed inwardly, for this was the outward sign of
undeterminable sitting.

Suddenly the self-arranged color scheme struck me as the cool light fell
over Mammy. I seated myself and seized my palette.

"Sit still, Mammy, right where you are. I'm going to paint you."

"Namer Gawd! paint me, Mahs William? After all dem pretty things whar you
kin paint, paint yo' old Mammy?" She slapped herself on the knees, called
the name of the Lord several times, and burst into the heartiest laugh that
I had heard from her for some time.

"Yes, Mammy, just sit right still, and don't talk much, and I won't make
you tired."

I worked frantically, getting in the drawing as surely as I could, then
attacked the face in color. The result was a success that astonished me.
Mammy's evident fatigue stopped me. It was fortunate. I might have painted
more and spoiled my study. I thought that she would go now, but her mission
was not fulfilled. She had come to consult me on an important matter.

"You know this Freedman's Bureau, Mahs William? Well, they tells me--Lawd
knows what they calls it bureau for!--they tells me that of a colored
pusson goes down thar and gives in what he wuz worth--women either, mind
you--that the guv'mint would pay um."

Mammy paused for corroboration, but I determined to hear what she might add
to this remarkable statement. "Well?"

"Well, sah, I didn't want to go down thar without no price, so I called in
to arst you what you might consider yo' fif' worth, an' five times ovah."

I did not laugh at Mammy. The emancipated negroes had such utterly wild
notions of what was going to be done for them that Mammy's statement did
not surprise me very much. I let her go with the assurance that I would
inquire into the matter. She left enjoining me not to put that "fif' too
cheap," and I insisting that she should not go to the Bureau, in deference
to whose officials her astonishing toilet had evidently been made.

I was so much pleased with my own work that it was nearly twilight before
the knock of a familiar friend roused me. He was a clever amateur, and took
the greatest interest in my work. His enthusiasm over Mammy's effigy made
me glow. He agreed to pose for me in Mammy's costume.

Next day I borrowed the outfit without intimating that it was to be worn by
anybody. Mammy was over-nervous about its being properly cared for. I think
that she still contemplated appearing in it at the Bureau.

In a week the picture was complete. My model and I went out and celebrated
appropriately but frugally.

A small label in the corner gave the title to the picture--"My old Mammy."

My friend gave my work a place in his window, and my acquaintances
generally accorded unqualified praise. The older ones recognized Mammy at
once.

Pending a purchaser for this, I started my deferred subject, and changed it
into a figure piece. A lovely friend was my model. She contemplated the
flowers and letters. Above the old piece of furniture on which she leaned
there hung a photograph, a sword, and a sash--a more striking suggestion of
my first title, "Dead Hopes." How little I dreamed, as I worked, that there
was such happy irony in the name, and that Mammy could ever, in the
remotest way, conduce to such a result!

Nearly every morning I hovered about my friend's establishment at a
sufficient distance to elude suspicion of my anxiety, but easily in visual
range of my exhibit.

One morning it was not visible. I rushed to the store with a throbbing
breast. Alas! the picture had only been shifted to another light. Before
the revulsion of feeling had time to overpower me I was seized by my friend
the merchant.

"It's a regular play," he exclaimed.

He forced me to a seat on a pile of cheese-boxes, and facing me, began:

"Yesterday, the old lady," pointing to the picture, "came in. She took no
notice of her portrait, but said that she had failed to find you; that she
was anxious to hear what you had done about the Bureau business." (I had
forgotten it utterly.) "Well, I could tell her nothing, and she started to
go out just as a group opened the door to come in. Mammy made one of her
courtly bows, and gave place. The young lady who was one of the three
coming in, the others evidently her parents, said, in a loud whisper, 'Why,
it's she!' Mammy, who either did not hear or did not understand, was about
to pass out, when the young lady accosted her with, 'I beg your pardon, but
isn't that your portrait?'

"'I grant you grace, young mistiss, but sence I looks, hit is. Hit wuz did
by my young mahster, which he can do all kinds of pictures lovely.'

"'Your young master?' the young lady said--sweet voice, too; dev'lish
handsome girl--'your young master?' Then she said aside to the others,
'Isn't it charmingly interesting?'

"'Yes, 'm, I call him so. But really I'm only his'n a fif'.'

"'His fif?' the young lady said, looking puzzled. I stepped up to them to
explain, just for politeness, though I was sure that they weren't
customers, 'She means that he owned a fifth interest in her previous
to--the recent change in affairs.'

"'That's hit,' said Mammy, nodding to them. 'But I don't expect to hear
from the other fif's. It don't make much diffunce, howsomever, bein' ez how
the Bureau is gwine settle up.'

"The visitors evidently did not understand this. I explained what Mammy was
after--you had told me, you know. They were very much amused, and asked a
heap of questions. After a little talk between themselves, in which I could
not help seeing that the young lady was very earnest, the gentleman asked:

"'Is the work for sale?' Was it for sale!"

My friend nearly prostrated me with a hearty punch by way of expressing his
feelings, whilst I was choking for an answer.

"Well, sir, I gave him the figger. He bought so quick that it made me sick
I hadn't asked more. Looker here!"

He displayed two new greenbacks which covered the amount. We embraced.

At last Mammy had become a source of revenue. I must, in justice to myself,
record the fact that a resolve immediately took form in my mind that she
also should be a beneficiary of my good fortune.

My friend wanted me to take the picture down myself. I told him that it was
not ethical to do so. The precious burden was confided to his porter. When
we returned to his store we found the gentleman there who had made the
purchase. I was duly presented by my friend.

The gentleman said that he had not noticed my name on the picture
particularly, nor on the receipt given by the merchant for the money, which
gave the title and painter of the work, until he had gotten back to the
hotel, when his wife recognized it and remembered having been in my
studio--a fine name for a small concern--in New York, and that we had many
friends in common there.

The upshot of the matter was that the gentleman gave me an invitation to
call at the Spottswood. I went the next day.

They were immensely amused and interested with any particulars about her.
The father--the names are immaterial, the young lady's was Elaine--asked me
jocularly at what sum I estimated my fifth in Mammy. I had previously
convinced him that we never had the remotest idea of parting with the old
lady. Consequently we had never estimated her value, but that I thought my
fifth at the time of the settling of the estate would have been about one
hundred dollars. After I had made several visits, the three came to see my
other picture.

The day after their departure Mammy called. She was in fine spirits over a
visit that she had made to my new friends, at their earnest request. All
the time that she was speaking she was working at a knot in the corner of
her handkerchief. I knew that she kept her small valuables there, but was
thunderstruck when she extracted two fifty-dollar bills.

"Why, Mammy! Where--"

"Dat's all right, honey. The Bureau gent'man fix it all, jess like I tole
you. He said dat he done 'nquired, an' yo' fif' was wuth dat--two fifties,
one hundred--an' I let him off de res."

"But what gentleman?"

"Dat gent'man whar was at de Spottswood Hotel. He tole me he wuz agent for
de Bureau. An' I tell you, Mahs William, dey's quality, dem folks. You
kain' fool Becky."

Of course I did not enlighten Mammy. What would have been the use?

Not many days thereafter I got a request to ship my "Dead Hopes," at my
price, to the address of a frame-maker in New York. Elaine's father said
that he had a purchaser for it. I discovered later that he was a master of
pleasant fiction.

When I wondered, long after, to him that he should have bought a
Confederate picture, he convinced me that my picture had nothing
confederate in it; that he had inferred that I had painted it in a catholic
spirit. The lady was in mourning, the flowers faded, the letters too small
for postmark, the picture on the wall a colorless photograph, and the sword
a regulation pattern common to both armies. He thought it very skilfully
planned, and complimented me on it. I was silent. All the Confederate part
and point had been in my mind.

About a year after this--I had been located in New York some months--Elaine
and I came on a visit to Richmond. I might just as well say that it was our
bridal trip.

We looked up Mammy in her comfortable quarters. She had been well provided
for. There was some little confusion in her mind at first as to who Elaine
was, but on being made to understand, called down fervent blessings upon
her head.

"Now the old lady kin go happy. I always said that I had nussed Mahs
William, an' of I jess could live long 'nuff to--"

Elaine cut in rather abruptly, I thought.

"Why, Mammy, what a beautiful vine you have on your stoop!"

"What's stoop, honey? Dat's a poach."

Mammy lived some years longer, aging comfortably, and unvexed by any
question of fractions. She died a serene integer, with such comfortable
assurance of just valuation as is denied most of us, and contented that it
should be expressed in terms that were, to her, the only sure criterion
applicable to her race.




An Incident


BY SARAH BARNWELL ELLIOTT

It was an ordinary frame house standing on brick legs, and situated on a
barren knoll, which, because of the dead level of marsh and swamp and
deserted fields from which it rose, seemed to achieve the loneliness of a
real height. The south and west sides of the house looked out on marsh and
swamp; the north and east sides on a wide stretch of old fields grown up in
broom-grass. Beyond the marsh rolled a river, now quite beyond its banks
with a freshet; beyond the swamp, which was a cypress swamp, rose a railway
embankment leading to a bridge that crossed the river. On the other two
sides the old fields ended in a solid black wall of pine-barren. A roadway
led from the house through the broom-grass to the barren, and at the
beginning of this road stood an outhouse, also on brick legs, which, save
for a small stable, was the sole out-building. One end of this house was a
kitchen, the other was divided into two rooms for servants. There were some
shattered remnants of oak-trees out in the field, and some chimneys
overgrown with vines, showing where in happier times the real homestead had
stood.

It was toward the end of February; a clear afternoon drawing toward sunset;
and all the flat, sad country was covered with a drifting red glow that
turned the field of broom-grass into a sea of gold; that lighted up the
black wall of pine-barren, and shot, here and there, long shafts of light
into the sombre depths of the cypress swamp. There was no sign of life
about the dwelling-house, though the doors and windows stood open; but
every now and then a negro woman came out of the kitchen and looked about,
while within a dog whined.

Shading her eyes with her hand, this woman would gaze across the field
toward the ruin; then down the road; then, descending the steps, she would
walk a little way toward the swamp and look along the dam that, ending the
yard on this side, led out between the marsh and the swamp to the river.
The over-full river had backed up into the yard, however, and the line of
the dam could now only be guessed at by the wall of solemn cypress-trees
that edged the swamp. Still, the woman looked in this direction many times
and also toward the railway embankment, from which a path led toward the
house, crossing the heap of the swamp by a bridge made of two felled trees.

But look as she would, she evidently did not find what she sought, and
muttering "Lawd! Lawd!" she returned to the kitchen, shook the tied dog
into silence, and seating herself near the fire, gazed sombrely into its
depths. A covered pot hung from the crane over the blaze, making a thick
bubbling noise, as if what it contained had boiled itself almost dry, and a
coffee-pot on the hearth gave forth a pleasant smell. The woman from time
to time turned the spit of a tin kitchen wherein a fowl was roasting, and
moved about the coals on the top of a Dutch oven at one side. She had made
preparation for a comfortable supper, and evidently for others than
herself.

She went again to the open door and looked about, the dog springing up and
following to the end of his cord. The sun was nearer the horizon now, and
the red glow was brighter. She looked toward the ruin; looked along the
road; came down the steps and looked toward the swamp and the railway path.
This time she took a few steps in the direction of the house; looked up at
its open windows, at the front door standing ajar, at a pair of gloves and
a branch from the vine at the ruin, that lay on the top step of the piazza,
as if in passing one had put them there, intending to return in a moment.
While she looked the distant whistle of a locomotive was heard echoing back
and forth about the empty land, and the rumble of an approaching train. She
turned a little to listen, then went hurriedly back to the kitchen.

The rumbling sound increased, although the speed was lessened as the river
was neared. Very slowly the train was moving, and the woman, peeping from
the window, watched a gentleman get off and begin the descent of the path.

"Mass Johnnie!" she said. "Lawd! Lawd!" and again seated herself by the
fire until the rapid, firm footstep having passed, she went to the door,
and standing well in the shadow, watched.

Up the steps the gentleman ran, pausing to pick up the gloves and the bit
of vine. The negro groaned. Then in the open door, "Nellie!" he called,
"Nellie!"

The woman heard the call, and going back quickly to her seat by the fire,
threw her apron over her head.

"Abram!" was the next call; then, "Aggie!"

She sat quite still, and the master, running up the kitchen steps and
coming in at the door, found her so.

"Aggie!"

"Yes, suh."

"Why didn't you answer me?"

The veiled figure rocked a little from side to side.

"What the mischief is the matter?" walking up to the woman and pulling the
apron from over her face. "Where is your Miss Nellie?"

"I dun'no', suh; but yo' supper is ready, Mass Johnnie."

"Has your mistress driven anywhere?"

"De horse is in de stable, suh." The woman now rose as if to meet a climax,
but her eyes were still on the fire.

"Did she go out walking?"

"Dis mawnin', suh."

"This morning!" he repeated, slowly, wonderingly, "and has not come back
yet?"

The woman began to tremble, and her eyes, shining and terrified, glanced
furtively at her master.

"Where is Abram?"

"I dun'no', suh!" It was a gasping whisper.

The master gripped her shoulder, and with a maddened roar he cried her name
--"Aggie!"

The woman sank down. Perhaps his grasp forced her down. "'Fo' Gawd!" she
cried--"'fo Gawd, Mass Johnnie, I dun'no'!" holding up beseeching hands
between herself and the awful glare of his eyes. "I'll tell you, suh, Mass
Johnnie, I'll tell you!" crouching away from him. "Miss Nellie gimme out
dinner en supper, den she put on she hat en gone to de ole chimbly en git
some de brier what grow dey. Den she come back en tell Abram fuh git a
bresh broom en sweep de ya'd. Lemme go, Mass Johnnie, please, suh, en I
tell you better, suh. En Abram teck de hatchet en gone to'des de railroad
fuh cut de bresh. 'Fo' Gawd, Mass Johnnie, it's de trute, suh! Den I tell
Miss Nellie say de chicken is all git out de coop, en she say I muss ketch
one fuh unner supper, suh; en I teck de dawg en gone in de fiel' fuh look
fuh de chicken. En I see Miss Nellie put 'e glub en de brier on de step, en
walk to'des de swamp, like 'e was goin' on de dam--'kase de water ent rise
ober de dam den--en den I gone in de broom-grass en I run de chicken, en I
ent ketch one tay I git clean ober to de woods. En when I come back de glub
is layin' on de step, en de brier, des like Miss Nellie leff um--" She
stopped, and her master straightened himself.

"Well," he said, and his voice was strained and weak.

The servant once more flung her apron over her head, and broke into violent
crying. "Dat's all, Mass Johnnie! dat's all! I dun'no' wey Abram is gone; I
dun'no' what Abram is do! Nobody ent been on de place dis day--dis day but
me--but me! Oh, Lawd! oh, Lawd en Gawd!"

The master stood as if dazed. His face was drawn and gray, and his breath
came in awful gasps. A moment he stood so, then he strode out of the house.
With a howl the dog sprang forward, snapping the cord, and rushed after his
master.

The woman's cries ceased, and without moving from her crouching position
she listened with straining ears to the sounds that reached her from the
stable. In a moment the clatter of horses' hoofs going at a furious pace
swept by, then a dead silence fell. The intense quiet seemed to rouse her,
and going to the door, she looked out. The glow had faded, and the gray
mist was gathering in distinct strata above the marsh and the river. She
went out and looked about her as she had done so many times during that
long day. She gazed at the water that was still rising; she peered
cautiously behind the stable and under the houses; she approached the
wood-pile as if under protest, gathered some logs into her arms and an axe
that was lying there; then turning toward the kitchen, she hastened her
steps, looking back over her shoulder now and again, as if fearing pursuit.
Once in the kitchen she threw down the wood and barred the door; she shut
the boarded window-shutter, fastening it with an iron hook; then leaning
the axe against the chimney, she sat down by the fire, muttering, "If dat
nigger come sneakin' back yer now, I'll split 'e haid open, _sho_."

Recovering a little from her panic, she was once more a cook, and swung the
crane from over the fire, brushed the coals from the top of the Dutch oven,
and pushed the tin kitchen farther from the blaze. "Mass Johnnie'll want
sump'h'n to eat some time dis night," she said; then, after a pause, "en I
gwine eat _now_." She got a plate and cup, and helped herself to hominy out
of the pot, and to a roll out of the oven; but though she looked at the
fowl she did not touch it, helping herself instead to a goodly cup of
coffee. So she ate and drank with the axe close beside her, now and then
pausing to groan and mutter--"Po' Mass Johnnie!--po' Mass Johnnie!--Lawd!
Lawd!--if Miss Nellie had er sen' Abram atter dat chicken--like I tell
um--Lawd!" shaking her head the while.

Through the gathering dusk John Morris galloped at the top speed of his
horse. Reaching the little railway station, he sprang off, throwing the
reins over a post, and strode in.

"Write this telegram for me, Green," he said; "my hand trembles.

"_To Sam Partin, Sheriff, Pineville:_

"My wife missing since morning. Negro, Abram Washington, disappeared. Bring
men and dogs. Get off night train this side of bridge. Will be fire on the
path to mark the place.

"JOHN MORRIS."

"Great God!" the operator said, in a low voice. "I'll come too, Mr.
Morris."

"Thank you," John Morris answered. "I'm going to get the Wilson boys, and
Rountree and Mitchell," and for the first time the men's eyes met.
Determined, deadly, sombre, was the look exchanged; then Morris went away.

None of the men whom Morris summoned said much, nor did they take long to
arm themselves, saddle, and mount, and by nine o'clock Aggie heard them
come galloping across the field; then her master's voice calling her. There
was little time in which to make the signal-fire on the railroad
embankment, and to cut light-wood into torches, even though there were many
hands to do the work. John Morris's dog followed him a part of the way to
the wood-pile, then turned aside to where the water had crept up from the
swamp into the yard. Aggie saw the dog, and spoke to Mr. Morris.

"Dat's de way dat dawg do dis mawnin', Mass Johnnie, an' when I gone to
ketch de chicken, Miss Nellie was walkin' to'des dat berry place."

An irresistible shudder went over John Morris, and one of the gentlemen
standing near asked if he had a boat.

"The bateau was tied to that stake this morning," Mr. Morris answered,
pointing to a stake some distance out in the water; "but I have another
boat in the top of the stable." Every man turned to go for it, showing the
direction of their fears, and launched it where the log bridge crossed the
head of the swamp, and where now the water was quite deep.

The whistle was heard at the station, and the rumble of the on-coming
train. The fire flared high, lighting up the group of men standing about
it, booted and belted with ammunition-belts, quiet, and white, and
determined.

Many curious heads looked out as the sheriff and his men--six men besides
Green from the station--got off; then the train rumbled away in the
darkness toward the surging, turbulent river, and the crowd moved toward
the house.

Mr. Morris told of his absence in town on business. That Abram had been
hired first as a field-hand; and that later, after his marriage, he had
taken Abram from the field to look after his horse and to do the heavier
work about the house and yard.

"And the woman Aggie is trust-worthy?"

"I am sure of it; she used to belong to us."

"Abram is a strange negro?"

"Yes."

Then Aggie was called in to tell her story. Abram had taken the hatchet and
had gone toward the railroad for brush to make a broom. She had taken the
dog and gone into the broom-grass to catch a fowl, and the last she had
seen of her mistress she was walking toward the dam, which was then above
the water.

"How long were you gone after the chicken?"

"I dun'no', suh; but I run um clean to de woods 'fo' I ketch um, en I walk
back slow 'kase I tired."

"Were you gone an hour?"

"I spec so, suh, 'kase when I done ketch de chicken I stop fuh pick up some
light-wood I see wey Abram been cuttin' wood yistiddy."

"And your mistress was not here when you came back--nor Abram?"

"No, suh, nobody; en 'e wuz so lonesome I come en look in dis house fuh
Miss Nellie, but 'e ent deyyer; en I look in de bush fuh Abram, but I ent
see um nudder. En de dawg run to de water en howl en ba'k en ba'k tay I tie
um up in de kitchen."

"And was the boat tied to the stake this morning?"

"Yes, suh; en when I been home long time en git scare, den I look en see de
boat gone."

"You don't think that your mistress got in the boat and drifted away by
accident?"

"No, suh, nebber, suh; Miss Nellie 'fraid de water lessen Mass Johnnie is
wid um."

"Is Abram a good boy?"

"I dun'no', suh; I dun'no' nuffin 'tall 'bout Abram, suh; Abram is strange
nigger to we."

"Did he take his things out of his room?"

"Abram t'ings? Ki! Abram ent hab nuttin' ceppen what Miss Nellie en Mass
Johnnie gi' um. No, suh, dat nigger ent hab nuttin' but de close on 'e back
when 'e come to we."

The sheriff paused a moment. "I think, Mr. Morris," he said at last, "that
we'd better separate. You, with Mr. Mitchell and Mr. Rountree, had better
take your boat and hunt in the swamp and marsh, and along the river-bank.
Let Mr. Wilson, his brothers, and Green take your dog and search in the
pine-barren. I'll take my men and my dogs and cross the railroad. The
signal of any discovery will be three shots fired in quick succession. The
gathering-place'll be this house, where a member of the discovering
party'll meet the other parties and bring 'em to the discovery. And I beg
that you'll refrain from violence, at least until we can reach each other.
We've no proof of anything--"

"Damn proof!"

"An' our only clew," the sheriff went on, "the missing boat, points to Mrs.
Morris's safety." A little consultation ensued; then agreeing to the
sheriff's distribution of forces, they left the house.

The sheriff's dogs--the lean, small hounds used on such occasions--were
tied, and he held the ropes. There was an anxious look on his face, and he
kept his dogs near the house until the party for the barren had mounted and
ridden away, and the party in the boat had pushed off into the blackness of
the swamp, a torch fastened at the prow casting weird, uncertain shadows.
Then ordering his six men to mount and to lead his horse, he went to the
room of the negro Abram and got an old shirt. The two lean little dogs were
restless, but they made no sound as he led them across the railway. Once on
the other side, he let them smell the shirt, and loosed them, and was about
to mount, when, in the flash of a torch, he saw something in the grass.

"A hatchet!" he said to his companions, picking it up; "and clean, thank
God!"

The men looked at each other, then one said, slowly, "He coulder drowned
her?"

The sheriff did not answer, but followed the dogs that had trotted away
with their noses to the ground.

"I'm sure the nigger came this way," the sheriff said, after a while.
"Those others may find the poor young lady, but I feel sure of the nigger."

One of the men stopped short. "That nigger's got to die," he said.

"Of course," the sheriff answered, "but not by Judge Lynch's court. This
circuit's got a judge that'll hang him lawfully."

"I b'lieve Judge More will," the recalcitrant admitted, and rode on. "But,"
he added, "if I know Mr. John Morris, that nigger's safe to die one way or
another."

They rode more rapidly now, as the dogs had quickened their pace. The moon
had risen, and the riding, for men who hunted recklessly, was not bad.
Through woods and across fields, over fences and streams, down by-paths and
old roads, they followed the little dogs.

"We're makin' straight for the next county," the sheriff said.

"We're makin' straight for the old Powis settlement," was answered.
"Nothin' but niggers have lived there since the war, an' that nigger's
there, I'll bet."

"That's so," the sheriff said. "About how many niggers live there now?"

"There ain't more than half a dozen cabins left now. We can easy manage
that many."

It was a long rough ride, and in spite of their rapid pace it was some time
after midnight before they saw the clearing where clustered the few cabins
left of the plantation quarters of a well-known place, which in its day had
yielded wealth to its owners. The moon was very bright, and, save for the
sound of the horses' feet, the silence was intense.

"Look sharp," the sheriff said; "that nigger ain't sleepin' much if he's
here, and he might try to slip off."

The dogs were going faster now, and yelping a little.

"Keep up, boys!" and the sheriff spurred his horse.

In a few minutes they thundered into the little settlement, where the dogs
were already barking and leaping against a close-shut door. Frightened
black faces began to peer out. Low exclamations and guttural ejaculations
were heard as the armed men scattered, one to each cabin, while the sheriff
hammered at the door where the dogs were jumping.

"It's the sheriff!" he called, "come to get Abram Washington. Bring him out
and you kin go back to your beds. We're all armed, and nobody need to try
runnin'."

The door opened cautiously, and an old negro looked out. "Abram's my son,
Mr. Partin," he said, "an' 'fo' Gawd he ent yer."

"No lyin', old man; the dogs brought us straight here. Don't make me burn
the house down; open the door."

The door was closing, when the sheriff, springing from his horse, forced it
steadily back. A shot came from within, but it ranged wild, and in an
instant the sheriff's pistol covered the open room, where a smouldering
fire gave light. Two of the men followed him, and one, making for the fire,
pushed it into a blaze, which revealed a group of negroes--an old man, a
young woman, some children, and a young man crouching behind with a gun in
his hand. The sheriff walked straight up to the young man, whose teeth were
chattering.

"I arrest you," he said; "come on."

"That's the feller," confirmed one of the guard; "I've seen him at Mr.
Morris's place."

"Tie him," the sheriff ordered, "while I git that gun. Give it to me, old
man, or I'll take you to jail too." It was yielded up--an old-time
rifle--and the sheriff smashed it against the side of the chimney, throwing
the remnants into the fire. "Lead on," he said, and the young negro was
taken outside. Quickly he was lifted on to a horse and tied there, while
the former rider mounted behind one of his companions, and they rode out of
the settlement into the woods.

"Git into the shadows," one said; "they might be fools enough to shoot."

Once in the road, the sheriff called a halt. "One of you must ride; back to
Mr. Morris's place and collect the other search-parties, while we make for
Pineville jail. Now, Abram, come on."

"I ent done nuttin', Mr. Parin, suh," the negro urged. "I ent hot Mis'
Morris."

"Who said anything 'bout Mrs. Morris?" was asked, sharply.

The negro groaned.

"You're hanging yourself, boy," the sheriff said; "but since you know,
where _is_ Mrs. Morris?"

"I dun'no', suh."

"Why did you run away?"

"'Kase I 'fraid Mr. Morris."

"What were you 'fraid of?"

"'Kase Mis' Morris gone."

They were riding rapidly now, and the talk was jolted out.

"Where'?"

"I dun'no', suh, but I ent tech um."

"You're a damned liar."

"No, suh, I ent tech um; I des look at um."

"I'd like to gouge your eyes out!" cried one of the men, and struck him.

"None o' that!" ordered the sheriff. "And you keep your mouth shut, Abram;
you'll have time to talk on your trial."

"Blast a trial!" growled the crowd.

"The rope's round his neck now," suggested one, "and I see good trees at
every step."

"Please, suh, gentlemen," pleaded the shaking negro, "I ent done nuttin'."

"Shut your mouth!" ordered the sheriff again, "and ride faster. Day'll soon
break."

"You're 'fraid Mr. Morris'll ketch us 'fore we reach the jail," laughed one
of the guard. And the sheriff did not answer.

The eastern sky was gray when the party rode into Pineville, a small,
straggling country town, and clattered through its one street to the jail.
To the negro, at least, it was a welcome moment, for, with his feet tied
under the horse, his hands tied behind his back, and a rope with a
slip-knot round his neck, he had not found the ride a pleasant one. A
misstep of his horse would surely have precipitated his hanging, and he
knew well that such an accident would have given much satisfaction to his
captors. So he uttered a fervent "Teng Gawd!" as he was hustled into the
jail gate and heard it close behind him.

Early as it was, most of the town was up and excited. Betting had been high
as to whether the sheriff would get the prisoner safe into the jail, and
even the winners seemed disappointed that he had accomplished this feat,
although they praised his skilful management. But the sheriff knew that if
the lady's body was found, that if Mr. Morris could find any proof against
the negro, that if Mr. Morris even expressed a wish that the negro should
hang, the whole town would side with him instantly; and the sheriff knew,
further, that in such an emergency he would be the negro's only defender,
and that the jail could easily be carried by the mob.

All these thoughts had been with him during the long night, and though he
himself was quite willing to hang the negro, being fully persuaded of his
guilt, he was determined to do his official duty, and to save the
prisoner's life until sentence was lawfully passed on him. But how? If he
could quiet the town before the day brightened, he had a plan, but to
accomplish this seemed wellnigh impossible.

He handcuffed the prisoner and locked him into a cell, then advised his
escort to go and get food, as before the day was done--indeed, just as soon
as Mr. Morris should reach the town--he would probably need them to help
him defend the jail.

They nodded among themselves, and winked, and laughed a little, and one
said, "Right good play-actin'"; and watching, the sheriff knew that he
could depend on only one man, his own brother, to help him. But he sent him
off along with the others, and was glad to see that the crowd of
townspeople went with his guard, listening eagerly to the details of the
suspected tragedy and the subsequent hunt. This was his only chance, and he
went at once to the negro's cell.

"Now, Abram," he said, "if you don't want to be a dead man in an hour's
time, you'd better do exactly what I tell you."

"Yes, suh, please Gawd."

"Put on this old hat," handing him one, "and pull it down over your eyes,
and follow me. When we get outside, you walk along with me like any
ordinary nigger going to his work; and remember, if you stir hand or foot
more than a walk, you are a dead man. Come on."

There was a back way out of the jail, and to this the sheriff went. Once
outside, he walked briskly, the negro keeping step with him diligently.
They did not meet any one, and before very long they reached the sheriff's
house, which stood on the outskirts of the town. Being a widower, he
knocked peremptorily on the door, and when it was opened by his son, he
marched his prisoner in without explanation.

"Shut the door, Willie," he said, "and load the Winchester."

"Please, suh--" interjected the negro. For answer, the sheriff took a key
from the shelf, and led him out of the back door to where, down a few
steps, there was another door leading into an underground cellar.

"Now, Abram," he said, "you're to keep quiet in here till I can take you to
the city jail. There is no use your trying to escape, because my two
boys'll be about here all day with their repeating rifles, and they can
shoot."

"Yes, suh."

"And whoever unlocks this door and tells you to come out, you do it, and do
it quick."

"Yes, suh."

Locking the door, the sheriff turned to his son. "You and Charlie must
watch that door all day, Willie," he said; "but you musn't seem to watch
it; and keep your guns handy, and if that nigger tries to get away, kill
him; don't hesitate. I must go back to the jail and make out like he's
there. And tell Charlie to feed the horse and hitch him to the buggy, and
let him stand ready in the stable, for when I'll want him I'll want him
quick. Above all things, don't let anybody know that the nigger's here. But
keep the cellar key in your pocket, and shoot if he tries to run. If your
uncle Jim comes, do whatever he tells you, but nobody else, lessen they
bring a note from me. Now remember. I'm trusting you, boy; and don't you
make any mistake about killing the nigger if he tries to escape."

"All right," the boy answered, cheerfully, and the father went away. He
almost ran to the jail, and entering once more by the back door, found
things undisturbed. Presently his brother called to him, and the gates and
doors being opened, came in, bringing a waiter of hot food and coffee.

"I told Jinnie you'd not like to leave the jail," he said, "an' she fixed
this up."

"Jinnie's mighty good," the sheriff answered, "and sometimes a woman's
mighty handy to have about--sometimes; but I'd not leave one out in the
country like Mr. Morris did; no, sir, not in these days. We could do it
before the war and during the war, but not now. The old niggers were taught
some decency; but these young ones! God help us, for I don't see any safety
for this country 'cept Judge Lynch. And I'll tell you this is my first an'
last term as sheriff. The work's too dirty."

"Buck Thomas was a boss sheriff," his brother answered; "he found the
niggers all right, but the niggers never found the jail, and the niggers
were 'fraid to death of him."

"Maybe Buck was right," the sheriff said, "and 'twas heap the easiest way;
but here comes the town."

The two men went to the window and saw a crowd of people advancing down the
road, led by Mr. Morris and his friends on horseback.

"I b'lieve you're the only man in this town that'll stand by me, Jim," the
sheriff said. "I swore in six last night, and I see 'em all in that crowd.
Poor Mr. Morris! in his place I'd do just what he's doin'. Blest if yonder
ain't Doty Buxton comin' to help me! I'll let him in; but see here, Jim,
I'm goin' to send Doty to telegraph to the city for Judge More, and I want
you to slip out the back way right now, and run to my house, and tell
Willie to give you the buggy and the nigger, and you drive that nigger into
the city. Of course you'll kill him if he tries to escape."

"The nigger ain't here!"

"I'm no fool, Jim. And I'll hold this jail, me and Doty, as long as
possible, and you drive like hell! You see?"

"I didn't know you really _wanted_ to save the nigger," his brother
remonstrated; "nobody b'lieves that"

"I don't, as a nigger. But you go on now, and I'll send Doty with the
telegram, and make time by talkin' to Mr. Morris. I don't think they've
found anything; if they had, they'd have come a-galloping, and the devil
himself couldn't have stopped 'em. Gosh, but it's awful! Who knows what
that nigger's done When I look at Mr. Morris, I wish you fellers had
overpowered me last night and had fixed things."

He let his brother out at the back, then went round to the front gate,
where he met the man whom he called Doty Buxton.

"Go telegraph Judge More the facts of the case," he said, "an' ask him to
come. I don't believe I'll need any men if he'll come; and besides, he and
Mr. Morris are friends."

As the man turned away, one of the horsemen rode up to the sheriff.

"We demand that negro," he said.

"I supposed that was what you'd come for, Mr. Mitchell," the sheriff
answered; "but you know, sir, that as much as I'd like to oblige you, I'm
bound to protect the man. He swears that he's never touched Mrs. Morris."

"Great God, sheriff! how can you mention the thing quietly? You know--"

"Yes, I know; and I know that I'll never do the dirty work of a sheriff a
day after my term's up. But we haven't any proof against this nigger except
that he ran away--"

"Isn't that enough when the lady can't be found, nor a trace of her?"

"I found the hatchet."

"And--!"

"It was clean, thank God!"

Mr. Mitchell jerked the reins so violently that his horse, tired as he was,
reared and plunged.

"Mr. Morris declines to speak with you," he went on, when the horse had
quieted down, "but he's determined that the negro shall not escape, and the
whole county'll back him."

"I know that," the sheriff answered, patiently, "and in his place I'd do
the same thing; but in my place I must do my official duty. I'll not let
the nigger escape, you may be sure of that, and I've telegraphed for Judge
More to come out here. I've telegraphed the whole case. Surely Mr.
Morris'll trust Judge More?"

Mitchell dragged at his mustache. "Poor Morris is nearly dead," he said.

"Of course; won't he go and eat and rest till Judge More comes? Every house
in the town'll be open to him."

"No; he'll not wait nor rest; and we're determined to hang that negro."

"It'll be mighty hard to shed our blood--friends and neighbors,"
remonstrated the sheriff--"and all over a worthless nigger."

"That's your lookout," Mr. Mitchell answered. "A trial and a big funeral is
glory for a negro, and the penitentiary means nothing to them but free
board and clothes. I tell you, sheriff, lynching is the only thing that
affects them."

"You won't wait even until I get an answer from Judge More?"

"Well, to please you, I'll ask." And Mitchell rode back to his companions.

The conference between the leaders was longer than the sheriff had hoped,
and before he was again approached Doty Buxton had returned, saying that
Judge More's answer would be sent to the jail just as soon as it came.

"You'll stand by me, Doty?" the sheriff asked.

"'Cause I like you, Mr. Partin," Doty answered, slowly; "not 'cause I want
to save the nigger. I b'lieve in my soul he's done drowned the po' lady's
body."

"All right; you go inside and be ready to chain the gate if I am run in."
Then he waited for the return of the envoy.

John Morris sat on his horse quite apart even from his own friends, and
after a few words with him, Mitchell had gone to the group of horsemen
about whom the townsmen were gathered. The sheriff did not know what this
portended, but he waited patiently, leaning against the wall of the jail
and whittling a stick. He knew quite well that all these men were friendly
to him; that they understood his position perfectly, and that they expected
him to pretend to do his duty to a reasonable extent, and so far their
good-nature would last; but he knew equally well that in their eyes the
negro had put himself beyond the pale of the law; that they were determined
to hang him and would do it at any cost; and that the only mercy which the
culprit could expect from this upper class to which Mr. Morris belonged was
that his death would be quick and quiet. He knew also that if they found
out that he was in earnest in defending the prisoner he himself would be in
danger not only from Mr. Morris and his friends, but from the townsmen as
well. Of course all this could be avoided by showing them that the jail was
empty; but to do this would be at this stage to insure the fugitive's
capture and death. To save the negro he must hold the jail as long as
possible, and if he had to shoot, shoot into the ground. All this was quite
clear to him; what was not clear was what these men would do when they
found that he had saved the negro, and they had stormed an empty jail.

He was an old soldier, and had been in many battles; he had fought hardest
when he knew that things were most hopeless; he had risked his life
recklessly, and death had been as nothing to him when he had thought that
he would die for his country. But now--now to risk his life for a negro,
for a worthless creature who he thought deserved hanging--was this his
duty? Why not say, "I have sent the negro to the city"? How quickly those
fierce horsemen would dash away down the road! Well, why not? He drew
himself up. He was not going to turn coward at this late day. His duty lay
very plain before him, and he would not flinch. And he fixed his eyes once
more on the little stick he was cutting, and waited.

Presently he saw a movement in the crowd, and the thought flashed across
him that they might capture him suddenly while he stood there alone and
unarmed. He stepped quickly to the gate, where Doty Buxton waited, and
standing in the opening, asked the crowd to stand back, and to send Mr.
Mitchell to tell him what the decision was. There was a moment's pause;
then Mitchell rode forward.

"Mr. Morris says that Judge More cannot help matters. The negro must die,
and at once. We don't want to hurt you, and we don't want to destroy public
property, but we are going to have that wretch if we have to burn the jail
down. Will you stop all this by delivering the prisoner to us?"

The sheriff shook his head. "I can't do that, sir. But one thing I do ask,
that you'll give me warning before you set fire to the jail."

"If that'll make you give up, we'll set fire now."

"I didn't say it'd make me surrender, but only that I'd like to throw a few
things out--like Doty Buxton, for instance," smiling a little.

"All right; when we stop trying to break in, we'll be making ready to smoke
you out. The jail's empty but for this negro, I hear."

"Yes, the jail's empty; but don't you think you oughter give me a little
time to weigh matters?"

"Is there any chance of your surrendering?"

"To be perfectly honest," the sheriff answered, "there isn't." Then, seeing
the crowd approaching, he slipped inside the heavy gate, and Doty Buxton
chained it. "Now, Doty," he said, "we'll peep through these auger-holes and
watch 'em; and when you see' em coming near, you must shoot through these
lower holes. Shoot into the ground just in front of 'em. It's nasty to have
the dirt jumpin' up right where you've got to walk. I know how it feels. I
always wanted to hold up both feet at once. I reckon they've gone to get a
log to batter down the gate. They can do it, but I'll make 'em take as long
as I can. We musn't hurt anybody, Doty, but we must protect the State
property as far as we're able. Here they come! Keep the dirt dancin', Doty.
See that? They don't like it. I told you they'd want to take up both feet
at once. When bullets are flying round your head, you can't help yourself,
but it's hard to put your feet down right where the nasty little things are
peckin' about. Here they come again! Keep it up, Doty. See that? They've
stopped again. They ain't real mad with me, yet, the boys ain't; only Mr.
Morris and his friends are mad. The boys think I'm just pretending to do my
duty for the looks of it; but I ain't. Gosh! Now they've fixed it! With Mr.
Morris at the front end of that log, there's no hope of scare. He'd walk
over dynamite to get that nigger. Poor feller! Here they come at a run!
Don't hurt anybody, Doty. Bang! Wait; I'll call a halt by knocking on the
gate; it'll gain us a little more time."

"What do you want?" came in answer to the sheriff's taps.

"I'll arrest every man of you for destroying State property," the sheriff
answered.

"All right; come do it quick," was the response. "We're waitin', but we
won't wait long."

"I reckon we'll have to go inside, Doty," the sheriff said; then to the
attacking party, "If you'll wait till Judge More comes, I promise you the
nigger'll hang."

For answer there was another blow on the gate.

"Remember, I've warned you!" the sheriff called.

"Hush that rot," was the answer, followed by a third blow.

The sheriff and Doty retreated to the jail, and the attack went on. It was
a two-story building of wood, but very strongly built, and unless they
tried fire the sheriff hoped to keep the besiegers at bay for a little
while yet. He stationed Doty at one window, and himself took position at
another, each with loaded pistols, which were only to be used as before--to
make "the dirt jump."

"To tell you the truth, Doty," the sheriff said, "if you boys had had any
sense, you'd have overpowered me last night, and we'd not have had all this
trouble."

"We wanted to," Doty answered, "but you're new at the business, an' you
talked so big we didn't like to make you feel little."

"Here they come!" the sheriff went on, as the stout gate swayed inwards.
"One more good lick an' it's down. That's it. Now keep the dirt dancin',
Doty, but don't hurt anybody."

Mr. Morris was in the lead, and apparently did not see the "dancin' dirt,"
for he approached the jail at a run.

"It's no use, Doty," the sheriff said; "all we can do is to wait till they
get in, for I'm not going to shoot anybody. It may be wrong to lynch, but
in a case like this it's the rightest wrong that ever was." So the sheriff
sat there thinking, while Doty watched the attack from the window.

According to his calculations of time and distance, the sheriff thought
that the prisoner was now so far on his way as to be almost out of danger
by pursuit, and his mind was busy with the other question as to what would
happen when the jail was found to be empty. He had not heard from Judge
More, but the answer could not have reached him after the attack began. He
felt sure that the judge would come, and come by the earliest train, which
was now nearly due.

"The old man'll come if he can," he said to himself, "and he'll help me if
he comes; and I wish the train would hurry."

He felt glad when he remembered that he had given the keys of the cells to
his brother, for though he would try to save further destruction of
property by telling the mob that the jail was empty, he felt quite sure
that they would not believe him, and in default of keys, would break open
every door in the building; which obstinacy would grant him more time in
which to hope for Judge More and arbitration. That it was possible for him
to slip out once the besiegers had broken in never occurred to him; his
only thought was to stay where he was until the end came, whatever that
might be. They were taking longer than he had expected, and every moment
was a gain.

Doty Buxton came in from the hall, where he had gone to watch operations.
"The do' is givin'," he said; "what'll you do?"

"Nothin'," the sheriff answered, slowly.

"Won't you give 'em the keys?"

"I haven't got 'em."

"Gosh!" and Doty's eyes got big as saucers.

Very soon the outer door was down, and the crowd came trooping in, all save
John Morris, who stopped in the hallway. He seemed to be unable even to
look at the sheriff, and the sheriff felt the averted face more than he
would have felt a blow. "We want the keys," Mitchell said.

The sheriff, who had risen, stood with his hands in his pockets, and his
eyes, filled with sympathy, fastened on Mr. Morris, standing looking
blankly down the empty hall.

"I haven't got the keys, Mr. Mitchell," he answered.

"Oh, come off!" cried one of the townsmen. "Rocky!" cried another. "Yo'
granny's hat!" came from a third; while Doty Buxton said, gravely, "Give
up, Partin; we've humored this duty business long enough."

"Do I understand you to say that you won't give up the keys?" Mitchell
demanded, scornfully.

"No," the sheriff retorted, a little hotly, "you don't understand anything
of the kind. I said that I didn't have the keys; and further," he added,
after a moment's pause, "I say that this jail is empty."

There was silence for a moment, while the men looked at one another
incredulously; then the jeering began again.

"There is nothing to do but to break open the cells," Morris said, sharply,
but without turning his head. "We trusted the sheriff last night, and he
outwitted us; we must not trust him again."

The sheriff's eyes flashed, and the blood sprang to his face. The crowd
stood eagerly silent; but after a second the sheriff answered, quietly,

"You may say what you please to me, Mr. Morris, and I'll not resent it
under these circumstances, but I'll swear the jail's empty."

For answer Morris drove an axe furiously against the nearest cell door, and
the crowd followed suit. There were not many cells, and as he looked from a
window the sheriff counted the doors as they fell in, and listened for the
whistle of the train that he hoped would bring Judge More. The doors were
going down rapidly, and as each yielded the sheriff could hear cries and
demonstrations. What would they do when the last one fell?

Presently Doty Buxton, who had been making observations, came in, pale and
excited. "You'd better git yo' pistols," he said, "an' I'll git mine, for
they're gittin' madder an' madder every time he ain't there."

"Well," the sheriff answered, "I want you to witness that I ain't armed. My
pistols are over there on the table, unloaded. Thank the good Lord!" he
exclaimed, suddenly; "there's the train, an' Judge More! I hope he'll come
right along."

"An' there goes the last do'!" said Doty, as, after a crash and a momentary
silence, oaths and ejaculations filled the air. He drew near the sheriff,
but the sheriff moved away.

"Stand back," he said; "you've got little children."

In an instant the crowd rushed in, headed by Morris, whose burning eyes
seemed to be starting from his drawn white face. Like a flash Doty sprang
forward and wrenched an axe from the infuriated man, crying out, "Partin
ain't armed!"

For answer a blow from Morris's fist dropped the sheriff like a dead man. A
sudden silence fell, and Morris, standing over his fallen foe, looked about
him as if dazed. For an instant he stood so, then with a violent movement
he pushed back the crowding men, and lifting the sheriff, dragged him
toward the open window.

"Give him air," he ordered, "and go for the doctor, and for cold water!" He
laid Partin flat and dragged open his collar. "He's not dead--see there; I
struck him on the temple; under the ear would have killed him, but not
this, not this! Give me that water, and plenty of it, and move back. He's
not dead, no; and I didn't mean to kill him; but he has worked against me
all night, and I didn't think a white man would do it."

"He's comin' round, Mr. Morris," said Doty, who knelt on the other side of
the sheriff; "an' he didn't bear no malice against you--don't fret; but
it's a good thing I jerked that axe outer yo' hand! See, he's ketchin' his
breath; it's all right," as Partin opened his eyes slowly and looked about
him.

A sound like a sigh came from the crowd, then a voice said, "Here comes
Judge More."

Morris was still holding his wet handkerchief on the sheriff's head when
the old judge came in.

"My dear boy!" he said, laying his hand on John Morris's shoulder. But
Morris shook his head.

"Let's talk business, Judge More," he said, "and let's get Partin into a
chair where he can rest; I've just knocked him over."

Then Morris left the room, and Mitchell with him, going to the far side of
the jail-yard, where they walked up and down in silence. It was not long
before Judge More and the sheriff joined them.

"The evidence was too slight for lynching," the judge said, looking
straight into John Morris's eyes.

"Great God!" Morris cried, and struck his hands together.

"What more do you want?" Mitchell demanded, angrily. "His wife has
disappeared, and the negro ran away."

"True, and I'll see to the case myself; but I'm glad that you did not hang
the negro."

A boy came up with a telegram.

"From Jim, I reckon," the sheriff said, taking it. "No; it's for you, Mr.
Morris."

It was torn open hastily; then Morris looked from one to the other with a
blank, scared face, while the paper fluttered from his hold.

Mitchell caught it, and read aloud slowly, as if he did not believe his
eyes:

"'Am safe. Will be out on the ten o'clock train. ELEANOR.'"

Morris stood there, shaking, and sobbing hard, dry sobs.

"It'll kill him!" the sheriff said. "Quick, some whiskey!"

A flask was forced between the blue, trembling lips.

"Drink, old fellow," and Mitchell put his arm about Morris's shoulders.
"It's all right now, thank God!"

Morris was leaning against his friend, sobbing like a woman. The sheriff
drew his coat-sleeve across his eyes, and shook his head.

"What made the nigger run away?" he said, slowly--adding, as if to himself,
"God help us!"

A vehicle was borrowed, and the judge and the sheriff drove with John
Morris over to the station to meet the ten-o'clock train. The sheriff and
the judge remained in the little carriage, and the station agent did his
best to leave the whole platform to John Morris. As the moments went by the
look of anxious agony grew deeper on the face of the waiting man. The
sheriff's ominous words, falling like a pall over the first flash of his
happiness, had filled his mind with wordless terrors. He could scarcely
breathe or move, and could not speak when his wife stepped off and put her
hands in his. She looked up, and without a query, without a word of
explanation, answered the anguished questioning of his eyes, whispering,

"He did not touch me."

Morris staggered a little, then drawing her hand through his arm, he led
her to the carriage. She shrank back when she saw the judge and the sheriff
on the front seat; but Morris saying, "They must hear your story, dear,"
she stepped in.

"We are very thankful to see you, Mrs. Morris," the judge said, without
turning his head, when the sheriff had touched up the horse and they moved
away; "and if you feel able to tell us how it all happened, it'll save time
and ease your mind. This is Mr. Partin, the sheriff."

Mrs. Morris looked at the backs of the men in front of her; at their heads
that were so studiously held in position that they could not even have
glanced at each other; then up at her husband, appealingly.

"Tell it," he said, quietly, and laid his hand on hers that were wrung
together in her lap. "You sent Aggie to catch the chickens, and the dog
went with her?"

"Yes," fixing her eyes on his; "and I sent"--she stopped with a shiver, and
her husband said, "Abram"--"to cut some bushes to make a broom," she went
on. "I had been for a walk to the old house, and as I came back I laid my
gloves and a bit of vine on the steps, intending to return at once; but I
wished to see if the boat was safe, for the water was rising so rapidly."
She paused, as if to catch her breath, then, with her eyes still fixed on
her husband, she went on, "I did not think that it was safe, and I untied
the rope and picked up the paddle that was lying on the dam, intending to
drag the boat farther up and tie it to a tree." She stopped again. Her
husband put his arm about her.

"And then?" he said.

"And then--something, I don't know what; not a sound, but
something--something made me turn, and I saw him--saw him coming--saw him
stealing up behind me--with the hatchet in his hand, and a look--a
look"--closing her eyes as if in horror--"such an awful, awful look! And
everybody gone. Oh, John!" she gasped, and clinging to her husband, she
broke into hysterical sobs, while the judge gripped his walking-stick and
cleared his throat, and the sheriff swore fiercely under his breath.

"I was paralyzed," she went on, recovering herself, "and when he saw me
looking he stopped. The next moment he threw the hatchet at me, and began
to run toward me. The hatchet struck my foot, and the blow roused me, and I
sprang into the boat. There were no trees just there, and jumping in, I
pushed the boat off into the deep water. He picked up the hatchet and shook
it at me, but the water was too deep for him to reach me, and he ran back
along the dam and turned toward the railroad embankment. I was so terrified
I could scarcely breathe; I pushed frantically in and out between the
trees, farther and farther into the swamp. I was afraid that he would go
round to the bridge and come down the bank to where the outlet from the
swamp is and catch me there, but in a little while I saw where the rising
water had broken the dam, and the current was rushing through and out to
the river. The current caught the boat and swept it through the break. Oh,
I was so glad! I'm so afraid of water, but not then. I used the paddle as a
rudder, and to push floating timber away. My foot was hurting me, and I
looked at last and saw that it was cut."

A groan came from the judge, and the sheriff's head drooped.

"All day I drifted, and all night. I was so thirsty, and I grew so weak. At
daylight this morning I found myself in a wide sheet of water, with marshes
all round, and I saw a steamboat coining. I tied my handkerchief to the
paddle and waved it, and they picked me up. And, John, I did not tell them
anything except that the freshet had swept me away. They were kind to me,
and a friendly woman bound up my foot. We got to town this morning early,
and the captain lent me five dollars, John--Captain Meakin--so I
telegraphed you, and took a carriage to the station and came out.
Have--have you caught him? And, oh--but I am afraid--afraid!" And again she
broke into hysterical sobs.

She asked no explanation. The negro's guilt was so burned in on her mind,
that she was sure that all knew it as well as she.

"You need have no further fears," her husband comforted. And the judge
shook his head, and the sheriff swore again.

*       *       *       *       *

A white-haired woman in rusty black stood talking to a negro convict. It
was in a stockade prison camp in the hill country. She had been a
slave-owner once, long ago, and now for her mission-work taught on Sundays
in the stockade, trying to better the negroes penned there.

This was a new prisoner, and she was asking him of himself.

"How long are you in for?" she asked.

"Fuhrebber, ma'm; fuh des es long es I lib," the negro answered, looking
down to where he was making marks on the ground with his toes.

"And how did you get such a dreadful sentence?"

"I ent do much, ma'm; I des scare a white lady."

A wave of revulsion swept over the teacher, and involuntarily she stepped
back. The negro looked up and grinned.

"De hatchet des cut 'e foot a little bit; but I trow de hatchet. I ent tech
um; no, ma'm. Den atterwards 'e baby daid; den dey say I muss stay yer
fuhrebber. I ent sorry, 'kase I know say I hab to wuck anywheys I is; if I
stay yer, if I go 'way, I hab to wuck. En I know say if I git outer dis
place Mr. Morris'll kill me sho--des sho. So I like fuh stay yer berry
well."

And the teacher went away, wondering if her work--if _any_ work--would
avail; and what answer the future would have for this awful problem.




A Snipe-Hunt


A Story of Jim-Ned Creek

BY M. E. M. DAVIS

"I ain't sayin' nothin' ag'inst the women o' Jim--Ned Creek _ez women_,"
said Mr. Pinson; "an' what's more, I'll spit on my hands an' lay out any
man ez'll dassen to sass 'em. But _ez wives_ the women o' Jim-Ned air the
outbeatenes' critters in creation!"

These remarks, uttered in an oracular tone, were received with grave
approbation by the half a dozen idlers gathered about the mesquite fire in
Bishop's store. Old Bishop himself, sorting over some trace-chains behind
the counter, nodded grimly, and then smiled, his wintry face grown suddenly
tender.

"You've shore struck it, Newt," assented Joe Trimble. "You never kin tell
how ary one of 'em 'll ack under any succumstances."

Jack Carter and Sid Northcutt, the only bachelors present, grinned and
winked slyly at each other.

"You boys neenter to be so brash," drawled Mr. Pinson's son-in-law, Sam
Leggett, from his perch on a barrel of pecans; "jest you wait ontell Minty
Cullum an' Loo Slater gits a tight holt! Them gals is ez meek ez
lambs--now. But so was Mis' Pinson an' Mis' Trimble in their day an' time,
I reckon. I know Becky Leggett was."

"The studdies'-goin' woman on Jim-Ned," continued Mr. Pinson, ignoring
these interruptions, "is Mis' Cullum. An' yit, Tobe Cullum ain't no safeter
than anybody else--considerin' of Sissy Cullum ez a wife!"

Mr. Trimble opened his lips to speak, but shut them again hastily, looking
a little scared, and an awkward silence fell on the group.

For the shadow of Mrs. Cullum herself had advanced through the wide
door-way, and lay athwart the puncheon floor; and that lady, a large,
comfortable-looking, middle-aged person, with a motherly face and a kindly
smile, after a momentary survey of the scene before her, walked briskly in.
She shook hands across the counter with the storekeeper, and passed the
time of day all around.

But Hines, the new clerk, shuffled forward eagerly to wait on her. Bud was
a sallow-faced, thin-chested, gawky youth from the States, who had wandered
into these parts in search of health and employment. He was not yet used to
the somewhat drastic ways of Jim-Ned, and there was a homesick look in his
watery blue eyes; he smiled bashfully at her while he measured off calico
and weighed sugar, and he followed her out to the horse-block when she had
concluded her lengthy spell of shopping.

"You better put on a thicker coat, Bud," she said, pushing back her
sunbonnet and looking down at him from the saddle before she moved off.
"You've got a rackety cough. I reckon I'll have to make you some mullein
surrup."

"Oh, Mis' Cullum, don't trouble yourself about me," Mr. Hines cried,
gratefully, a lump rising in his throat as he watched her ride away.

The loungers in the store had strolled out on the porch. "Mis' Cullum
cert'n'y is a sister in Zion," remarked Mr. Trimble, gazing admiringly at
her retreating figure.

"M-m-m--y-e-e-s," admitted Mr. Pinson. "But," he added, darkly, after a
meditative pause, "Sissy Cullum is a wife, an' the women o' Jim-Nez, _ez
wives_, air liable to conniptions."

Mrs. Cullum jogged slowly along the brown, wheel-rifted road which followed
the windings of the creek. It was late in November. A brisk little norther
was blowing, and the nuts dropping from the pecan-trees in the hollows
filled the dusky stillness with a continuous rattling sound. There was a
sprinkling of belated cotton-bolls on the stubbly fields to the right of
the road; a few ragged sunflowers were still abloom in the fence corners,
where the pokeberries were red-ripe on their tall stalks.

"I must lay in some poke-root for Tobe's knee-j'ints," mused Mrs. Cullum,
as she turned into the lane which led to her own door-yard. "Pore Tobe!
them j'ints o' his'n is mighty uncertain. Why, Tobe!" she exclaimed, aloud,
as her nag stopped and neighed a friendly greeting to the object of her own
solicitude, "where air you bound for?"

Mr. Cullum laid an arm across the horse's neck. He was a big, loose-jointed
man, with iron-gray hair, square jaws, and keen, steady, dark eyes. "Well,
ma," he said, with a touch of reluctance in his dragging tones, "there's a
lodge meetin' at Ebenezer Church to-night, an' I got Mintry to give me my
supper early, so's I could go. I--"

"All right, Tobe," interrupted his wife, cheerfully; "a passel of men
prancin' around with a goat oncet a month ain't much harm, I reckon. You go
'long, honey; I'll set up for you."

"Sissy is that soft an' innercent an' mild," muttered Mr. Cullum, striding
away in the gathering twilight, "that a suckin' baby could wrop her aroun'
its finger--much lessen me!"

About ten o'clock the same night Granny Carnes, peeping through a chink in
the wall beside her bed, saw a squad of men hurrying afoot down the road
from the direction of Ebenezer Church. "Them boys is up to some
devil_mint_, Uncle Dick," she remarked, placidly, to her rheumatic old
husband.

Uncle Dick laughed, a soft, toothless laugh. "I ain't begrudgin' 'em the
fun," he sighed, turning on his pillow, "but I wisht to the Lord I was
along!"

The "boys" crossed the creek below Bishop's and entered the shinn-oak
prairie on the farther side.

"Nance ast mighty particular about the lodge meetin'," observed Newt Pinson
to Mr. Cullum, who headed the nocturnal expedition; "she know'd it wa'n't
the regular night, an' she suspicioned sompn, Nance did."

"Sissy didn't," laughed Tobe, complacently. "Sissy is that soft an'
innercent an' mild that a suckin' baby could wrop her aroun' its
finger--much lessen me!"

Bud Hines, in the rear with the others, was in a quiver of excitement. He
stumbled along, shifting Sid Northcutt's rifle from one shoulder to the
other, and listening open-mouthed to Jack Carter's directions. "You know,
Bud," said that young gentleman, gravely, "it ain't every man that gets a
chance to go on a snipe-hunt. And if you've got any grit--"

"I've got plenty of it," interrupted Mr. Hines, vaingloriously. He was,
indeed, inwardly--and outwardly--bursting with pride. "I thought they tuk
me for a plumb fool," he kept saying over and over to himself. "They ain't
never noticed me before 'cepn to make fun of me; an' all at oncet Mr. Tobe
Cullum an' Mr. Newt Pinson ups an' asts me to go on a snipe-hunt, an' even
p'oposes to give me the best place in it. An' I've got Mr. Sid's rifle, an'
Mr. Jack is tellin' of me how! Lord, I wouldn't of believed it of I wa'n't
right here! Won't ma be proud when I write her about it!"

"You've got to whistle all the time," Jack continued, breaking in upon
these blissful reflections; "if you don't, they won't come."

"Oh, I'll whistle," declared Bud, jauntily.

Sam Leggett's snigger was dexterously turned into a cough by a punch in his
ribs from Mr. Trimble's elbow, and they trudged on in silence until they
reached Buck Snort Gully, a deep ravine running from the prairie into a
stretch of heavy timber beyond, known as The Rough.

Here they stopped, and Sid Northcutt produced a coarse bag, whose mouth was
held open by a barrel hoop, and a tallow candle, which he lighted and
handed to the elate hunter. "Now, Bud," Mr. Cullum said, when the bag was
set on the edge of the gully, with its mouth towards the prairie, "you jest
scrooch down behind this here sack an' hold the candle. You kin lay the
rifle back of you, in case a wild-cat or a cougar prowls up. An' you
whistle jest as hard an' as continual as you can, whilse the balance of us
beats aroun' an' drives in the snipe. They'll run fer the candle ever'
time. An' the minit that sack is full of snipe, all you've got to do is to
pull out the prop, an' they're yourn."

"All right, Mr. Tobe," responded Bud, squatting down and clutching the
candle, his face radiant with expectation.

The crowd scattered, and for a few moments made a noisy pretence of beating
the shinn-oak thickets for imaginary snipe.

"Keep a-whisslin', Bud!" Mr. Cullum shouted, from the far edge of the
prairie. A prolonged whistle, with trills and flourishes, was the response;
and the conspirators, bursting with restrained laughter, plunged into the
ford and separated, making each for his own fireside.

Mrs. Cullum was nodding over the hearth-stone when her husband came in. The
six girls, from Minty--Jack Carter's buxom sweetheart--to Little Sis, the
baby, were long abed. The hands of the wooden clock on the high
mantel-shelf pointed to half-past twelve. "Well, pa," Sissy said,
good-humoredly, reaching out for the shovel and beginning to cover up the
fire, "you've cavorted pretty late this time! What's the matter?" she
added, suspiciously; "you ack like you've been drinkin'!"

For Tobe was rolling about the room in an ecstasy of uproarious mirth.

"I 'ain't teched nary drop, Sissy," Mr. Cullum returned, "but ever' time I
think about that fool Bud Mines a-settin' out yander at Buck Snort, holdin'
of a candle, and whisslin' fer snipe to run into that coffee-sack, I--oh
Lord!"

He stopped to slap his thighs and roar again. Finally, wiping the tears of
enjoyment from his eyes, he related the story of the night's adventure.

"Air you tellin' me, Tobe Cullum," his wife said, when she had heard him to
the end--"air you p'intedly tellin' me that you've took Bud Hines
_snipin'_? An' that you've left that sickly, consumpted young man a-settin'
out there by hisse'f to catch his death of cold; or maybe git his blood
sucked out by a catamount!"

"Shucks, Sissy!" replied Tobe; "nothin' ain't goin' to hurt him. He's sech
a derned fool that a catamount wouldn't tech him with a ten-foot pole! An'
him a-whisslin' fer them snipe--oh Lord!"

"Tobe Cullum," said Mrs. Cullum, sternly, "you go saddle Buster this minit
and ride out to Buck Snort after Bud Hines."

"Why, honey--" remonstrated Tobe.

"Don't you honey me," she interrupted, wrathfully. "You saddle that horse
this minit an' fetch that consumpted boy home."

Tobe ceased to laugh. His big jaws set themselves suddenly square. "I'll do
no such fool thing," he declared, doggedly, "an' have the len'th an'
brea'th o' Jim-Ned makin' fun o' me."

"Very well," said his wife, with equal determination, "ef you don't go, I
will. But I give you fair warnin', Tobe Cullum, that ef you don't go, I'll
never speak to you again whilse my head is hot."

Tobe snorted incredulously; but he sneaked out to the stable after her, and
when she had saddled and mounted Buster, he followed her on foot, running
noiselessly some distance behind her, keeping her well in sight, and
dodging into the deeper shadows when she chanced to look around.

"I didn't know Sissy had so much spunk," he muttered, panting in her wake
at last across the shinn-oak prairie. "Lord, how blazin' mad she is! But
shucks! she'll git over it by mornin'."

Mr. Hines was shivering with cold. He still whistled mechanically, but the
hand that held the sputtering candle shook to the trip-hammer thumping of
his heart. "The balance of 'em must of got lost," he thought, listening to
the lonesome howl of the wind across the prairie. "It's too c-cold for
snipe, I reckon. I wisht I'd staid at home. I c-can't w-whistle any
longer," he whimpered aloud, dropping the candle-end, the last spark of
courage oozing out of his nerveless fingers. He stood up, straining his
eyes down the black gully and across the dreary waste around him. "Mr.
T-o-o-be!" he called, feebly, and the wavering echoes of his voice came
back to him mingled with an ominous sound. "Oh, Lordy! what is that?" he
stammered. He sank to the ground, grabbing wildly for his gun. "It's a
cougar! I hear him trompin' up from the creek! It's a c-cougar! He's
c-comin' closter! Oh, Lordy!"

"Hello, Bud," called Mrs. Cullum, cheerily. She slipped from the saddle as
she spoke and caught the half-fainting snipe-hunter in her motherly arms.

"Ain't you 'shamed of yourse'f to let a passel o' no-'count men fool you
this-a-way?" she demanded, sternly, when he had somewhat recovered himself.
"Get up behind me. I'm goin' to take you to Mis' Bishop's, where you
belong. No, don't you dassen to tech any o' that trash!"

Mr. Hines, feeling very humble and abashed, climbed up behind her, and they
rode away, leaving the snipe--hunting gear, including Sid Northcutt's
valuable rifle, on the edge of the gully.

She left him at Bishop's, charging him to swallow before going to bed a
"dost" of the home-brewed chill medicine from a squat bottle she handed
him.

"He cert'n'y is weaker'n stump-water," she murmured, as she turned her
horse's head; "but he's sickly an' consumpted, an' he's jest about the age
my Bud would of been if he'd lived."

And thinking of her first-born and only son, who died in babyhood, she rode
homeward in the dim chill starlight. Tobe, spent and foot-sore, followed
warily, carrying the abandoned rifle.

II

Consternation reigned the "len'th an' brea'th" of Jim-Ned. Mrs.
Cullum--placid and easy-going Mrs. Tobe--under the same roof with him,
actually had not spoken to her lawful and wedded husband since the
snipe-hunt ten days ago come Monday!

"It's plumb scan'lous!" Mrs. Pinson exclaimed, at her daughter's quilting.
"I never would of thought sech a thing of Sissy--never!"

"As of the boys of Jim-Ned couldn't have a little innercent fun without
Mis' Cullum settin' in jedgment on 'em!" sniffed Mrs. Leggett.

"Shot up, Becky Leggett," said her mother, severely. "By time you've put up
with a man's capers for twenty-five years, like Sissy Cullum have, you'll
have the right to talk, an' not before."

"They say Tobe is wellnigh out'n his mind," remarked Mrs. Trimble. "Ez for
that soft-headed Bud Mines, he have fair fattened on that snipe-hunt. He's
gittin' ez sassy an' mischeevous ez Jack Carter hisse'f."

This last statement was literally true. The victim of Tobe Cullum's
disastrous practical joke had become on a sudden case-hardened, as it were.
The consumptive pallor had miraculously disappeared from his cheeks and the
homesick look from his eyes. He bore the merciless chaffing at Bishop's
with devil-may-care good-nature, and he besought Mrs. Cullum, almost with
tears in his eyes, to "let up on Mr. Tobe."

"I was sech a dern fool, Mis' Cullum," he candidly confessed, "that I don't
blame Mr. Tobe for puttin' up a job on me. Besides," he added, his eyes
twinkling shrewdly, "I'm goin' to git even. I'm layin' off to take Jim
Belcher, that biggetty drummer from Waco, a-snipin' out Buck Snort next
Sat'day night. He's a bigger idjit than I ever was."

"You ten' to your own business, Bud, an' I'll ten' to mine," Mrs. Cullum
returned, not unkindly. Which business on her part apparently was to make
Mr. Cullum miserable by taking no notice of him whatever. The house under
her supervision was, as it had always been, a model of neatness; the meals
were cooked by her own hands and served with an especial eye to Tobe's
comfort; his clothes were washed and ironed, and his white shirt laid out
on Sunday mornings, with the accustomed care and regularity. But with these
details Mrs. Cullum's wifely attentions ended. She remained absolutely deaf
to any remark addressed to her by her husband, looking through and beyond
him when he was present with a steady, unseeing gaze, which was, to say the
least, exasperating. All necessary communication with him was carried on by
means of the children. "Minty," she would say at the breakfast-table, "ask
your pa if he wants another cup of coffee"; or at night, "Temp'unce, tell
your pa that Buster has shed a shoe"; or, "Sue, does your pa know where
them well-grabs is?" et caetera, et caetera.

The demoralized household huddled, so to speak, between the opposing camps,
frightened and unhappy, and things were altogether in a bad way.

To make matters worse, Miss Minty Cullum, following her mother's example,
took high and mighty ground with Jack Carter, dismissing that gentleman
with a promptness and coolness which left him wellnigh dumb with amazement.

"Lord, Minty!" he gasped. "Why, I was taken snipe-hunting myself not more'n
five years ago. I--"

"I didn't know you were such a fool, Jack Carter," interrupted his
sweetheart, with a toss of her pretty head; "that settles it!" and she
slammed the door in his face.

Matters were at such a pass finally that Mr. Skaggs, the circuit-rider,
when he came to preach, the third Sunday in the month, at Ebenezer Church,
deemed it his duty to remonstrate and pray with Sister Cullum at her own
house. She listened to his exhortations in grim silence, and knelt without
a word when he summoned her to wrestle before the Throne of Grace. "Lord,"
he concluded, after a long and powerful summing up of the erring sister's
misdeeds, "Thou knowest that she is travelling the broad and flowery road
to destruction. Show her the evil of her ways, and warn her to flee from
the wrath to come."

He arose from his knees with a look of satisfaction on his face, which
changed to one of chagrin when he saw Sister Cullum's chair empty, and
Sister Cullum herself out in the backyard tranquilly and silently feeding
her hens.

"She shore did flee from the wrath to come, Sissy did," chuckled Granny
Carnes, when this episode reached her ears.

As for Tobe, he bore himself in the early days of his affliction in a
jaunty debonair fashion, affecting a sprightliness which did not deceive
his cronies at Bishop's. In time, however, finding all his attempts at
reconciliation with Sissy vain, he became uneasy, and almost as silent as
herself, then morose and irritable, and finally black and thunderous.

"He's that wore upon that nobody dassent to go anigh him," said Mrs.
Pinson, solemnly. "An' no wonder! Fer of all the conniptions that ever
struck the women o' Jim-Ned, _ez wives_, Sissy Cullum's conniptions air the
outbeatenes'."

But human endurance has its limits. Mr. Cullum's reached his at the
supper-table one night about three weeks after the beginning of his
discipline. He had been ploughing all day, and brooding, presumably, over
his tribulations, and there was a techy look in his dark eyes as he seated
himself at the foot of the well-spread table, presided over by Mrs. Cullum,
impassive and dumb as usual. The six girls were ranged on either side.

"Well, ma," began Tobe, with assumed gayety, turning up his plate, "what
for a day have you had?"

Sissy looked through and beyond him with fixed, unresponsive gaze, and said
never a word.

Then, as Mr. Cullum afterward said, "Ole Satan swep' an' garnish_eed_ him
an' tuk possession of him." He seized the heavy teacup in front of him and
hurled it at his unsuspecting spouse; she gasped, paling slightly, and
dodged. The missile, striking the brick chimney-jamb behind her, crashed
and fell shivering into fragments on the hearth. The saucer followed. Then,
Tobe's spirits rising, plate after plate hurtled across the table; the air
fairly bristled with flying crockery. Mrs. Cullum, after the first shock of
surprise, continued calmly to eat her supper, moving her head from right to
left or ducking to avoid an unusually well-aimed projectile.

Little Sis scrambled down from her high chair at the first hint of
hostilities, and dived, screaming, under the table; the others remained in
their places, half paralyzed with terror.

In less time than it takes to tell it, Mr. Cullum, reaching out his long
arms, had cleared half the board of its stone and glass ware. Finally he
laid a savage hand upon a small, old-fashioned blue pitcher left standing
alone in a wide waste of table-cloth.

At this Sissy surrendered unconditionally. "Oh, Tobe, fer Gawd's sake!" she
cried, throwing out her hands and quivering from head to foot. "I give in!
I give in! _Don't_ break the little blue-chiny pitcher! You fetched it to
me the day little Bud was born! An' he drunk out'n it jest afore he died!
Fer Gawd's sake, Tobe, honey! I give in!"

Tobe set down the pitcher as gingerly as if it had been a soap-bubble.
Then, with a whoop which fairly lifted the roof from the cabin, he cleared
the intervening space between them and caught his wife in his arms.

Minty, with ready tact, dragged Little Sis from under the table, and
driving the rest of the flock before her, fled the room and shut the door
behind her. On the dark porch she ran plump upon Jack Carter.

"Why, Jack!" she cried, with her tear-wet face tucked before she knew it
against his breast, "what are you doing here?"

"Oh, just hanging around," grinned Mr. Carter.

"Gawd be praised!" roared Tobe, inside the house.

"Amen!" responded Jack, outside.

"An' Tobe Cullum," announced Joe Trimble at Bishop's the next day, "have
ordered up the fines' set o' shiny in Waco fer Sissy."

"It beats _me_," said Newt Pinson; "but I allers did say that the women o'
Jim-Ned, _ez wives_, air the outbeatenes' critters in creation!"




The Courtship of Colonel Bill


BY J. J. EAKINS

It was early morning in the Bluegrass. The triumphant sun was driving the
white mist before it from wood and rolling meadow-land, rousing the drowsy
cattle from their tranquil dreams and quickening into fuller life all the
inhabitants of that favored region, from the warlike woodpecker with his
head of flame high up in the naked tree-top to the timid ground-squirrel
flitting along the graystone fences. It glorified with splendid
impartiality the apple blossoms in the orchards and the vagabond blackberry
bushes blooming by the roadside; and then, with many a mile of smiling
pastures in its victorious wake, it burst over the low rampart of stable
roofs encircling the old Lexington race-course, and, after a hasty glimpse
at the horses speeding around the track and the black boys singing and
slouching from stall to stall with buckets of water on their heads, it
rushed impetuously into an old-fashioned, deep-waisted family barouche
beside one of the stables, and shone full upon a slender, girlish figure
within. It wasted no time upon a purple-faced old gentleman beside her, nor
upon two young gentlemen on the seat opposite, but rested with bold and
ardent admiration upon the young girl's face, touching her cheeks with a
color as delicate as the apple blossoms in the orchards, and weaving into
her rich brown hair the red gold of its own beams.

The picture was so dazzling and altogether so unprecedented that Colonel
Bill Jarvis, the young owner of the stable, who had come swinging around
the corner, whistling a lively tune, his hat thrown back on his head, and
who had almost run plump into the carriage, stopped abruptly and stood
staring. He was roused to a realizing sense of his position by Major Cicero
Johnson, editor of the Lexington _Chronicle_ and president of the
association, who was standing beside the barouche, saying, with that
courtliness of manner and amplitude of rhetoric which made him a fixture in
the legislative halls at Frankfort: "Colonel Bill, I want to present you to
General Thomas Anderson Braxton, the hero of two wars, of whom as a
Kentuckian you must be proud, and his sons Matt and Jack, and his daughter,
Miss Sue, the Flower of the Blue-grass. Ladies and gentlemen," he
continued, with an oratorical wave of his hand towards the Colonel, who had
bowed gravely to each person in turn to whom he was introduced, "this is my
friend Colonel Bill Jarvis, the finest horseman and the most gallant young
turfman between the Ohio River and the Gulf of Mexico."

While the Major was speaking, Colonel Bill's eyes wandered from the two
young gentlemen on the front seat to the purple-faced old General on the
rear seat, and then rested on Miss Braxton. Her eyes met his, and she
smiled. It was such a pleasant, gracious, encouraging smile, and there was
so much kindliness in the depths of the soft brown eyes, that the Colonel
was reassured at once.

"We have come to disturb you at this unearthly hour," said Miss Braxton,
apologetically, "because I wanted to see the horses at their work, and
father and my brothers were good enough to come with me."

Colonel Bill explained that his horses had finished their morning exercise,
but that it would afford him great pleasure to show them in their stalls.
Miss Braxton was sure that they were putting him to a great deal of
trouble, and she was also convinced that to see horses in their stalls must
be delightful; so presently the party was marching along under the shed,
looking at the calm-eyed thoroughbreds in their narrow little homes, the
Colonel and Miss Braxton leading the way.

With the wisdom of her sex, Miss Braxton concealed her lack of special
knowledge by a generous general enthusiasm which captivated her
simple-hearted host.

"And that is really Beau Brummel!" she cried, with sparkling eyes, pointing
to a splendid deep-chested animal, who was regarding them with mild
curiosity. "And that is Queen of Sheba next to him! What lovely heads they
have, and how very proud you must be to own them!" One would have thought
her days and nights had been given to a study of these two thoroughbreds.

"They are the best long-distance horses in the country," said the Colonel,
flushing with pleasure. And then, in reply to her eager questioning, he
gave their pedigrees and performances, all their battles and victories, in
detail--a list as long and glorious as the triumphs of Napoleon, and
perhaps as useful. At each stall she had fresh questions to ask. Her
brothers, with an eye to the coming meeting, listened eagerly to the
Colonel's answers, while the Major and the General, lagging behind,
discussed affairs of state. At last the horses were all seen; everybody
shook hands with the Colonel and thanked him, the General with great
pompousness, and Miss Braxton with a smile, and a hope that she might see
him during the meeting; and the old barouche went lumbering away down the
road, until it presently buried itself, like a monstrous cuttlefish, in a
cloud of its own making.

Colonel Bill looked after it with a pleased expression on his face, and
pulling his tawny mustache reflectively, muttered to himself with true
masculine acuteness, "She knew as much about my horses as I did myself."

*       *       *       *       *

The great Lexington meeting was in the full tide of its success.
Peach-cheeked, bright-eyed Blue-grass girls, and their big-boned,
deep-chested admirers, riding and driving in couples and parties, filled
all the white, dusty tumpikes leading to the race-course, and made gay the
quaint old Lexington streets. The grand-stand echoed with their merriment,
and they cheered home the horses with an enthusiasm seen nowhere else in
the world.

The centre of the liveliest of all these merry groups, noticeable for her
grace and beauty even there, where so many lovely girls were gathered, was
Miss Braxton. She was continuously surrounded by a devoted body-guard of
young men, many of whom had ridden miles to catch a glimpse of her
bewitching face, and who felt more than recompensed for their efforts by a
glance from her bright eyes.

On the first day of the meeting Colonel Bill, arrayed with unusual care,
had eagerly scanned the occupants of the grand-stand. His eyes ran
heedlessly over scores of pretty faces, until finally they rested upon the
group around Miss Braxton. Then carefully buttoning up his coat and
straightening out his tall figure, as a brave man might who was about to
lead a forlorn hope or receive his opponent's fire, he bore down upon them.
Miss Braxton welcomed him cordially, and introduced him to the gentlemen
about her. She straightway became so gracious to him that he aroused an
amazing amount of suspicion and dislike in the little circle, to all of
which, however, he was happily oblivious. He was a capital mimic, and under
the inspiration of her applause he told innumerable negro stories with such
lifelike fidelity to nature that even the hostile circle was convulsed, and
Miss Braxton laughed until the tears ran down her cheeks.

Time sped so swiftly that the last race was run before the Colonel was
aware that the programme was half over, and he found himself saying
good-bye to Miss Braxton, and wishing with all his heart he were one of the
half-dozen lucky young men who were waiting on their horses outside to
escort her carriage back to Lexington.

It was that same evening old Elias, Colonel Bill's body-servant and general
assistant, noticed a most surprising development in his young employer. One
of the Colonel's most prized possessions was a fiddle. It bad never been
known, in all the years he owned it, to utter aught except the most joyful
sounds. Whenever he picked it up, as he frequently did on winter nights,
when everybody gathered around the big wood fire in his room, the
stable-boys at once made ready to beat time to "Money Musk," "Old Dan
Tucker," and other cheerful airs.

On this particular night the Colonel seized the fiddle and strode gloomily
to the end of the stable. Presently there came forth upon the night air
such melancholy and dismal notes as made every stable-boy, from little Pete
to big Mose, shiver. As the lugubrious sounds continued, the boys fled to
their loft, leaving Elias, who had watched over the Colonel from his
infancy, to keep vigil, with a troubled look on his withered face. Many
nights thereafter was this singular proceeding repeated, to the
ever-increasing wonderment of Elias.

Every day during the meeting when Miss Braxton was at the track Colonel
Bill sought her out. Sometimes he had a chance for a long talk, but oftener
he was forced to content himself with shorter interviews. More than once he
noticed General Braxton join his daughter when he approached, and he found
that old warrior's manner growing more and more cold.

"He's a loser," thought the Colonel, to whom it never for a moment occurred
that his own presence might be disagreeable to any one. "A man oughtn't to
bet when he can't stand a-losing," he concluded, philosophically, and then
he dismissed the matter from his mind.

On the last day of the races, after waiting for an hour or more to speak
alone to Miss Braxton, and finding her constantly guarded by her father,
who looked fiercer than usual, Colonel Bill was finally compelled to join
her as she and the General were leaving the grand-stand. She saw him
coming, and stopped, a pleased look on her face. The General, with a frigid
nod, moved on a few paces and left them together.

"I have come to ask if I might call on you this evening, Miss Braxton,"
said the Colonel, timidly, "if you have no other engagement."

"I shall be very glad indeed to have you call," she replied, cordially,
adding, with a smile, "You know, Lexington is not so wildly gay that we
haven't ample time to see our friends."

As he walked away the Colonel thought he heard his name mentioned by
General Braxton, and although the words were inaudible, the tone was sharp
and commanding. He turned and glanced back. The girl's face was flushed,
and she looked excited, something unusual to her self-contained, reposeful
manner. As they moved out of hearing, the General was still talking with
great earnestness, and a feeling of uneasiness began to oppress him. This
feeling had not altogether departed when he galloped into Lexington that
night, his long-tailed, white linen duster buttoned up to his chin, the
brim of his soft black hat pulled down over his eyes.

The Elms, a roomy old-fashioned house encircled by wide verandas, the home
of the Braxtons for generations, was one of the landmarks of Lexington. A
long stretch of lawn filled with shrubbery and clumps of trees protected
its inmates from the city's dust and turmoil and almost concealed the house
itself from view. The Colonel, to whom the Elms was perfectly well known,
never drew rein till he was before it, and then, checking his horse so
suddenly that a less intelligent animal would have turned a somersault,
swung himself out of the saddle with the ease of one who had spent the
greater part of his life there, fastened the bridle to a ring in a great
oak-tree by the curbing, and opening the big iron gate, strode up the
gravelled walk which wound through the shrubbery.

Miss Braxton had been sitting at the piano in the drawing-room playing
softly. The long windows looking out on the veranda were opened to admit
the balmy air, and before her visitor arrived she heard his approaching
footsteps.

"I am very glad you have come," she said, walking out to meet him; "I was
afraid that in the excitement of the race-track you might have forgotten
our engagement. I felt a little depressed this evening, and that is another
reason why I am glad to see you." She led the way back into the
drawing-room as she talked, and invited the Colonel to sit beside her on
one of the sofas. In the soft glow of the dimly lighted lamps he thought
she had never appeared so beautiful; and the rich fragrance of the
dew-laden roses and honeysuckle wafted in through the open windows seemed
to him to be an atmosphere peculiar to her alone, like the exceeding
sweetness of her soft, low voice and the easy grace of her movements.

In reply to her questions he told her of his adventures on far Southern
tracks, and of the careless, reckless life he had led. He had seen many
strange and stirring sights during his wanderings; and to her, whose young
life lead hitherto flown along as peacefully as a meadow-brook, it seemed
like a new and thrilling romance, with a living being in place of the
printed page. Once he mentioned a woman's name, and she started.

"In all that time," she inquired, softly, her eyes lowered, "did no woman
ever come into your life?"

"No," he answered, simply; "I never thought of a woman then."

She raised her eyes to his, and lowered them instantly, her face flushing.

During a moment's lull in the conversation the hour was struck from a
neighboring steeple. They both started, half-guiltily. It was midnight. He
at once arose to go, apologizing for the lateness of his visit.

"I would like to see you again, Miss Braxton, before I go North," he said,
as he prepared to leave.

She had risen with him, and they were both standing beside the mantel. Her
face paled. Then she turned her head aside, and said, in a tone that was
almost inaudible, "Father objects."

He became rigid instantly, and his lips grew white. "I suppose your father
don't know who I am," he said, proudly. "My family is as good as any in the
State. I loved horses and the life and color of the race-track, and refused
to go to college when I could. Until I met you I never thought of anything
except horses. But that pedigree of my people is straight. There isn't a
cold cross on either side. I know I amount to nothing myself," he
continued, bitterly, his eyes resting gloomily on the floor; "I'm only a
no-account old selling-plater, and I'll just go back to the stable, where I
belong." Here an unusual sound interrupted him, and he looked up. The girl,
with her head on her arm, was leaning against the mantel, sobbing quietly.
In a moment he forgot all about himself and snatched up her disengaged
hand.

"Do you really care?" he cried, pressing the fluttering little hand in both
of his.

She lifted up her face, the soft brown eyes swimming in tears. "I wouldn't
mind," she replied, half laughing and half sobbing--"I wouldn't mind at all
about the pedigree, and I know you're not an old selling-plater; but if you
were, I am very sure that I would care for you."

The Lexington meeting was over, and the horsemen were scattered far and
wide, from Chicago to Sheepshead Bay. Colonel Bill alone remained behind.
As the days passed and he made no preparation to depart, old Elias's
irritation grew apace, and the lives of the stable-boys under the
increasing rigor of his rule became almost unendurable. The Colonel,
however, saw very little of Elias or the stable-boys. Even his beloved
horses no longer interested him. He passed the days walking the streets of
Lexington, hoping by some chance to meet Miss Braxton, and it was not until
late at night that he returned to the race-track, foot-sore and
disappointed. He had been too deeply wounded and was too proud to make any
further effort to visit the Elms, and he thought it would be unmanly and
ungenerous to ask Miss Braxton to meet him away from her father's house.

In the mean time the old General's wrath increased as the days passed. He
was unused to any kind of opposition, and the Colonel's persistence
irritated him beyond measure. The dream of his life was a brilliant
marriage for his daughter, and no amount of argument could alter his
opinion that Colonel Bill was a rude, unlettered stable-man.

"Why, sir," he would exclaim, over a mint-julep, to his friend Major
Johnson, who always defended the Colonel vigorously, "the idea of such
attentions to my daughter is preposterous--ludicrous! I will not permit it,
sir--not for one moment. If he persists in annoying my family, sir," and
the purple hue of the General's face deepened, "I would no more hesitate to
shoot him--no more, by gad!--than I would a rattlesnake." After the fourth
or fifth julep he did not always confine his conversation to his friend,
and so his threats often found their way back to the object of his wrath,
losing nothing by the journey. Although the Colonel's disposition was the
sunniest, the strain to which he was being subjected was telling on his
nerves, and once or twice he replied sharply to the tale-bearers. The
little city was soon excited over the quarrel, and every movement of the
principals was eagerly noted.

"My money goes on Bill," said Jule Chinn, the proprietor of the Blue-grass
Club, when the matter came up for discussion there between deals. "I saw
him plug that creole down in Orleans. First he throws him down the steps of
the St. Charles for insultin' a lady. When Frenchy insists on a duel an'
Bill gets up in front of him, he says, in that free-an'-easy way of his,
'We mark puppies up in my country by cutting their ears, and that's what
I'm going to do to you, for you ain't fit to die,' an' blame me if he don't
just pop bullets through that fellow's ears like you'd punch holes in a
piece of cheese!" After that the Colonel ruled a strong favorite in the
betting.

When this condition of affairs had existed for two weeks, the Colonel arose
one morning from a sleepless bed with a fixed idea in his mind. He sat down
to a table in his room, pulled out some writing-paper, and set to work.
After many sheets had been covered and destroyed, he finally decided upon
the following:


"DEAR MISS BRAXTON,--I am going away from Lexington to-morrow, probably
never to return. Will you be at your father's gate at three o'clock this
afternoon, as I would like to say good-bye to you before I go?

"Your sincere friend,
"WILLIAM JARVIS"


After he had finished this epistle it seemed to him entirely too cold; but
the others, which he had written in a more sentimental vein, had appeared
unduly presumptuous. He finally sealed it and gave it to Pete, with
terrific threats of personal violence in case of anything preventing its
prompt delivery. While Pete was galloping off to Lexington at breakneck
speed, the Colonel was wondering what the answer would be.

"I'll just say good-bye to her," he muttered, moodily, "and then I'll never
see her again. I suppose I belong with the horses, anyhow, and that old
bottle-nosed General has me classed all right!"

When Pete returned he handed the Colonel a dainty little three-cornered
note. It was addressed to "My dear friend," and the writer was _so sorry_
he was going away so _very soon_, and had hoped he would stay _ever_ so
much longer, and then signed herself cordially his, Susan Burleigh Braxton.
At the bottom was a postscript--"I will expect you at three o'clock."

An hour before the appointed time the Colonel was striding impatiently up
and down before the Elms, incessantly consulting his watch or wistfully
gazing up the gravelled walk. It still lacked several minutes of three,
when his heart gave a great jump as he saw Miss Braxton's graceful figure
flitting in and out through the shrubbery. She stopped to pluck some roses
from a bush that hung over the walk, bending down the richly laden bough so
that the flowers made a complete circle about her bright young face, and as
she raised her eyes she caught the Colonel gazing at her with such a look
of abject idolatry that she laughed and blushed. "You see I am on time,"
she cried, gayly, hastening down to the gate and handing him one of her
roses. "I am going to the post-office, and you may walk with me if you care
to." If he cared to! Her mere presence beside him, the feeling that he
could reach out his hand and touch her, the music of her voice, filled him
with a joy of which he had never before dreamed.

After they had left the post-office, by mutual direction their footsteps
turned from the more crowded thoroughfares, and they walked down a quiet
and deserted street where the stones were covered with moss, and where
solemn gnarled old trees lined the way on either side and met above their
heads, the fresh green leaves murmuring softly together like living things.

They reached the end of the old street, and were almost in the country. A
wide-spreading chestnut-tree stood before them, around whose giant bole a
rustic seat had been built. They walked towards it in silence and sat down
side by side.

They were entirely alone. A gay young red-bird, his head knowingly cocked
on one side, perched in the branches just above them. A belated bumblebee,
already heavy laden, hung over a cluster of wild flowers at their feet. A
long-legged garrulous grasshopper, undismayed by their presence, uttered
his clarion notes on the seat beside them.

The inquisitive young red-bird looking down could only see a soft black hat
and a white straw hat with flowers about its broad brim. He heard the black
hat wondering if any one ever thought of him, to which the straw hat
replied softly that it was sure some one did think of him very often. Then
the black hat wondered if some one, when it was away, would continue to
think of it, and the flowered straw, still more softly, was very, very sure
some one would.

Then the red-bird saw such a remarkable thing happen that his bright eyes
almost popped out of his little head. He saw a hand and a powerful arm
suddenly steal out from below the black hat and move in the direction of
the flowered straw--not hurriedly, but stealthily and surely. Having
reached it, the hand and the arm drew the unresisting flowered straw in the
direction of the black hat, until presently the hats came together. And
then the red-bird, himself desperately in love, knew what it all meant, and
burst into jubilant song. And the hard-working bumblebee, who also had a
sweetheart, took a moment's rest in honor of the event and buzzed his
delight; and even the long-legged grasshopper, an admirer of the sex, but a
confirmed bachelor, shouted his approbation until he was fairly hoarse.

It was some time before the adventurous hand could be put back where it
properly belonged, and the face beneath the straw, when it came into view,
was a very flushed face, but the brown eyes shone like stars. As they
walked through the old street, the setting sun filling the air with a
golden glory, they passed a sweet-faced old lady cutting flowers in her
garden, and she smiled an indulgent smile, and they nodded and smiled back
at her.

"I want you to promise me something," Miss Braxton said, suddenly stopping
and looking up at him. "I want you to promise me," she continued, not
waiting for his reply, "that you will not quarrel with my father. He is the
best father in the world. My mother died when I was a child, and since then
he has been father and mother and the whole world to me. I could never
forgive myself if you exchanged a harsh word with him."

"If all the stories I hear are true," replied the Colonel, with a
good-humored laugh, "your father is the one for you to see."

"My father says a great deal which he frequently regrets the moment
afterwards," she responded, earnestly. "He is a warm-hearted and an
impulsive man, and the dearest and best father in the world." The Colonel
gave the desired promise, and they walked on in silence. When they reached
the Elms, and her hand was on the big iron gate, she turned to him, an
appealing look in her eyes. "Must you really go to-morrow?" she asked.

"I am compelled to go," he replied, sadly. "I have already remained here
too long. I must start to-morrow night."

"I cannot tell you how sorry I am that you are going away," she said,
softly, extending her hand. He caught it up passionately.

"I must see you again!" he cried. "I can't go away until I do. It is hard
enough to leave even then. I won't ask you to come away from your father's
house to meet me, but you could be here, couldn't you?"

"When shall I come?" she asked, simply.

"The train leaves to-morrow night at twelve. Could you be here at eleven?"

"I will be here at eleven," she said; and then, with a brave attempt to
smile, she turned away. Just at that moment General Braxton rounded the
neighboring corner and came straight towards them.

In the hotel across the way the loungers leaning back in their
cane-bottomed chairs straightened up with keenest interest and delight.
Jule Chinn in the Blue-grass Club up-stairs, happening to glance out of the
window, turned his box over, and remarked that if any gentleman cared to
bet, he would lay any part of $5000 on Bill. When the General was directly
opposite him Colonel Bill gravely and courteously lifted his hat. For an
instant the old man hesitated, and then, with a glance at his daughter, he
lifted his own hat and passed through the gate.

"Well, I'll be----!" cried Jule, with a whistle of infinite amazement.
"Things is changed in Kentucky!"

"That," said Major Cicero Johnson, who had exchanged several hundred
subscriptions to his paper for an ever-decreasing pile of Jule's blue
chips--"that is the tribute which valor pays to beauty. Their pleasure has
only been postponed. Colonel Chinn, you have overlooked that small wager on
the ace. Thanks."

Ten minutes later Colonel Bill was galloping out to the race-track, gayly
singing a popular love-song. Suddenly something occurred to him and he
stopped, reached back into his hip-pocket, and drew out a long pistol. He
threw it as far as he could into a neighboring brier-patch, and once more
giving rein to his horse, began to sing with renewed enthusiasm.

When he reached the track he called old Elias into his room, and they
remained together for a long time in whispered conference. That night any
one who happened to have been belated on the Versailles 'pike might have
passed Elias jogging along on his horse, looking very important, and an air
of mystery enveloping him like a garment.

It was far into the night when he returned. As he started to creep up the
ladder to the loft above his young master's room, his shoes in his hand so
as not to awaken him, the Colonel, who had been tossing on a sleepless bed
for hours, called out. Elias, who evidently regarded himself as a
conspirator, waited until he had reached the loft, and then whispered back,
"Hit's all right, Marse Bill," and was instantly swallowed up in the
darkness.

It was one of those perfect June nights so often seen in Kentucky. The full
moon hung in a cloudless sky, filling the air with a soft white radiance.
There was not a movement in the still, warm atmosphere, and to Colonel
Bill, waiting beneath the shadows of the big oak-tree near the General's
gate, it seemed that all nature was waiting with him. The leaves above his
head, the gray old church steeple beyond the house, the long stretch of
deserted streets--they all wore a hushed, expectant look.

It was several minutes past the appointed hour, and Miss Braxton had not
come. He had begun to fear that perhaps her father, suspecting something,
had detained her, when he saw her figure, a white outline among the
rose-bushes, far up the walk. As she drew near he stepped out from the
shadows, and she gave a little cry of delight.

"I know I am late, but I was talking with father," she said,
apologetically, and the brown eyes became troubled. "He was very restless
and nervous to-night and when he is in that condition he says I soothe
him." They had slowly walked towards the tree as she was speaking, and when
she had finished they were completely hidden from any chance passer. She
glanced up, and even in the gloom she noticed how white and tense was his
face.

"Do you know," he cried, abruptly, "if I go away from Lexington to-night it
will only be to return in a day, or two days? For weeks I have been able to
think of nothing, to dream of nothing, except you. I haven't come here
to-night to say good-bye to you," he continued, passionately, "because I
cannot say good-bye to you, but to implore you to come with me--to marry
me--to-night--now." She shrank back. "I have made all my arrangements," he
continued, feverishly. "I have a cousin, a minister, living in Versailles.
Once a month he preaches in a little church on the 'pike near there. I sent
word by Elias last night for him to meet us there to-night, and he said he
would. Elias has the horses under the trees yonder; they will be here in a
moment, and in an hour we will be married. Come!" His arms were around her,
and while he spoke she was carried away by the rush of his passion, and
yielded to it with a feeling of languorous delight. Then there came the
thought of the lonely old man who would be left behind. She slipped gently
from her lover's arms and looked back at the house which had been her home
for so many years. She saw the light, in her father's room, and recalled
how she went there when she was a little girl to say her prayers at his
knee and kiss him good-night. He had always been so kind to her, so willing
to sacrifice himself for her pleasure, and he was so old. What would he do
when she had gone out of his life? No; she could not desert him. She
covered her face with her hands. "I cannot leave father," she sobbed. "I
cannot; I must not." They had moved out from the shadow of the tree into
the moonlight. He had taken her hand, and had begun to renew his appeals,
when they were both startled by the sound of footsteps on the gravelled
walk and the General's voice crying, "Sue! Sue, where are you?" At the same
moment Elias came up, leading two horses. The Colonel and Miss Braxton
stood just as they were, too surprised to move. They could not escape in
any event, for almost as soon as the words reached them the General came
into view. He saw them at once, and it required only a glance at the
approaching horses to tell him everything. With an inarticulate cry of
rage, his gray hair streaming behind him, he rushed wildly back to the
house. The Colonel looked after him, and then turned to Miss Braxton.

"He has gone to arm himself," he said, quietly. "He will be back with your
brothers."

The girl looked up in his face and shivered. Then she glanced towards the
house, where lights were flashing from room to room, and the doors were
being opened and shut, and she wrung her hands. In the stillness every
sound could be heard--the rush of footsteps down the stairs, the fierce
commands, the creaking of the great stable door in the rear of the house.

"They are getting out the horses," she whispered.

"Yes," he replied, calmly. "He thought we were running away." There was not
a tremor in his voice. She was reared in a society where physical bravery
is the first of virtues, and even in that terrible moment she could not
help feeling a thrill of pride as she looked at him.

She never thought of asking him to fly. She could hear the horses as they
were led out of their stalls one by one, their hoofs echoing sharply on the
stone flagging. Her excited imagination supplied all the details. Now they
were putting on the bridles; now they were fastening the saddles; they were
mounted; the gate was being opened; in another moment they would sweep down
on them. Then she looked at her lover standing there so motionless,
waiting--for what? The thought of it was maddening.

"Quick! quick!" she cried, wildly, catching his arm; "I will go with you."

Without a word he lifted her up in his arms and seated her on one of the
horses. He carefully tested the saddle, although the hoofs of their
pursuers' horses were already ringing on the street behind the house. Then
he swung himself easily into the saddle, and was hardly there before the
General and his two sons swept around the neighboring corner, not fifty
yards away.

"Good-bye, Elias," called the Colonel, cheerfully, as they shot out into
the moonlit street; and Elias's "God bless you bofe, Marse Bill!" came to
them above the rush of the horses.

As they went clattering through the quiet streets and past the rows of
darkened houses, the horses, with their sinewy necks straightened out
speeding so swiftly that the balmy air blew a soft wind in their riders'
faces, Colonel Bill, with a slight shade of disappointment in his voice,
said:

"I guess you didn't get a good look at the horses, or you would have
recognized them. That's old Beau Brummel you're on, and this is Queen of
Sheba. They're both fit, although they haven't been particularly trained
for these free-for-all scrambles, owners' handicap, ten miles straightaway.
But I don't believe there's a horse in Kentucky can catch us to-night," he
concluded, proudly patting the neck of his thoroughbred. He glanced over
his shoulder as he spoke, and noted that the distance between them and
their pursuers was constantly widening, until, turning a corner, they could
neither see nor hear them.

And now the Colonel's spirits fairly bubbled over. He was a superb rider,
and swinging carelessly in his saddle, his hands hardly touching the reins,
he kept up a running stream of jocular comment.

"It looks to me like the old gentleman's going to be distanced," he cried,
with a chuckle, "He can't say a word, though, for he made the conditions of
this race. The start was a trifle straggling, as Jack Calloway told me once
when he left seven horses at the post in a field of ten, and perhaps the
Beau and the Queen didn't have the worst of it."

In every possible way he sought to divert his companion's mind. Once or
twice she delighted him by faintly smiling a response to his speeches. They
had passed the last of the straggling houses, and the turnpike stretched
before them, a white ribbon winding through the green meadow-land. They had
to wait while a sleepy tollgate-keeper lifted his wooden bar, and straining
their ears, they could just catch the faint, far-away sound of galloping
horses.

"In another hour," he cried, pressing her hand, and once more they were
off. A mile farther on they stopped again. Before them was a narrow lane
debauching from the turnpike.

"That lane," he said, reflectively, "would save us a good two miles, for
the 'pike makes a big bend here. Elias told me that he heard it was closed
up, and we might get in there and not be able to get out. We can't afford
to take the chance," he concluded, thoughtfully, and they continued on
their journey. For some time neither spoke. As they were about to enter the
wood through which the road passed they stopped to breathe their horses.

"I don't hear them," said the girl. Then she added, joyfully, "Perhaps they
have turned back."

He listened attentively. "Perhaps they have," he said, at last.

As they rode forward more than once an anxious expression passed over his
face, although his conversation was as cheerful as ever. Miss Braxton, from
whose mind a great weight had been lifted, laughed and chatted as she had
not done since the journey began.

They had passed through the wood and were out in the open country again. As
they galloped on, only the distant barking of a watch-dog guarding some
lonely farm-house, or the premature crowing of a barn fowl, deceived by the
brilliancy of the moonlight into thinking that day had come, broke the
absolute silence. They might have been the one woman and the one man in a
new world, so profound was their isolation.

"Do you see that group of trees on the hill there just ahead of us," he
asked, carelessly, as the horses slowed to a canter. "Well, just the other
side of those trees the lane we passed joins the 'pike again. Now it is
possible that instead of your amiable relatives going home, they may have
taken to the lane. If it hasn't been closed, they may be waiting there to
welcome us." For a moment the girl was deceived by the lightness of his
manner; and then, as she realized what such a situation meant, she grew
white to the lips. "The chances are," he continued, cheerfully, "that they
won't be there, but we had just as well be prepared. If they are there we
must approach them just as if we were going to talk to them, slowing up
almost to a walk. They will be on my side, and I will keep in the middle of
the 'pike. You remain as close to the fence as you can. When we get
opposite them I'll yell, 'Now!' You can give your horse his head, and
before they know what's happened we will be a hundred yards away. All my
horses have been trained to get away from the post, and these two are the
quickest breakers on the Western Circuit. Now let's go over the plan
again." And the Colonel carefully repeated what he had said, illustrating
it as he went along. Yes, she understood him. It was very simple. How could
she forget it? As she told him this her frightened eyes never left his
face, and she followed his movements with such a look of pain that he swore
at her father, under his breath, with a vigor which did full justice to the
occasion.

A few minutes' ride brought them to the top of the hill, and they both
looked eagerly before them. A furlong away, standing perfectly still in the
middle of the lane, their horses' heads facing the turnpike, were three
mounted men. It required no second glance to identify the watchers. Colonel
Bill's eyes blazed, and his right hand went back instinctively to his empty
pistol-pocket. He regained his composure in a moment. "Go very slow," he
whispered, "and don't make a move till I shout. Keep as far over to your
side as you can." They approached the three grim watchers, their horses
almost eased to a walk. Not a word was spoken on either side. When they had
reached a point almost directly opposite their pursuers, Colonel Bill made
a pretence of pulling up his horse, only to catch the reins in a firmer
grip, and then, with a sudden dig of the spurs, he yelled, "Now!" and his
horse sprang forward like a frightened deer. At the same instant Miss
Braxton deliberately swung her horse across the road and behind his. Then
there came the sharp report of a pistol, followed by the rush of the
pursuing horses. But high above all other sounds rose General Braxton's
agonized voice: "My God, don't shoot! Don't shoot!" Before the Colonel
could turn in his saddle Miss Braxton was beside him.

"Why didn't you stay where you were?" he cried, sharply, the sense of her
peril setting his nerves on edge. As he realized that it was for his sake
she had come between him and danger, his eyes grew moist. "Suppose you had
been hurt?" he added, reproachfully. She did not reply, and they rode on at
full speed. They had once more left their pursuers behind; but as the
church was now only a few miles away, and they needed every spare moment
there, they urged their horses to renewed effort.

"There is the church now, and it's lighted up," cried the Colonel,
joyfully, as they dashed around a bend in the road, pointing to a little
one-story building tucked away amid trees and under-brush beside the
turnpike. In the doorway the minister stood waiting for them--a tall young
man whose ruddy face, broad shoulders, and humorous blue eyes suggested the
relationship the Colonel had mentioned. As they pulled up, the young
minister came forward and was introduced by the Colonel as "My cousin, Jim
Bradley." While they were both assisting Miss Braxton to dismount and
fastening the horses, the Colonel, in a few words, told of the pursuit and
of the necessity of haste. Mr. Bradley led the way into the church, the
lovers following arm in arm. It was a plain whitewashed little room, with
wooden benches for the worshippers, and a narrow aisle leading up to the
platform, where stood the preacher's pulpit. Half a dozen lamps with bright
tin reflectors behind them, like halos, were fastened to brackets high up
on the walls. The young couple stopped when they reached the platform, and
at Mr. Bradley's request joined their hands. He had opened the prayer-book
at the marriage service, and was beginning to read it, when he gave a
start. Far away down the turnpike, faint but unmistakable--now dying away
into a mere murmur, now rising clear and bold--came the sound of galloping
horses. The Colonel felt the girl's hand cold in his, and he whispered a
word of encouragement. Mr. Bradley hurried on with the ceremony. The
centuries-old questions, so often asked beneath splendid domes before
fashionable assemblages to the accompaniment of triumphant music, were
never answered with more truth and fervor than in that little roadside
church, with no one to hear them but the listening trees and the heart of
the night wind.

"Wilt thou have this woman to thy wedded wife? Wilt thou love her, comfort
her, honor, and keep her in sickness and in health, and forsaking all
others, keep thee only unto her, so long as ye both shall live?"

How he pressed the trembling little hand in his, and how devotedly he
answered, "I will."

"Wilt thou have this man to thy wedded husband? Wilt thou obey him and
serve him, love, honor, and keep him in sickness and in health, and
forsaking all others, keep thee only unto him, so long as ye both shall
live?"

The downcast eyes were covered with the drooping lids, and the voice was
faint and low, but what a world of love was in the simple, "I will."

As the young minister, very solemn and dignified now, paused for each
reply, there came ever nearer and ever louder the ringing of the
hoof-beats. Once he stole a hurried glance through the window which gave on
the turnpike. Not half a mile away, their figures black against the
sky-line, fiercely lashing their tired horses to fresh effort, were three
desperate riders. The couple before him did not raise their eyes.

And now the concluding words of the service had been reached, and the
minister had begun, "Those whom God hath joined together--" when the rest
of the sentence was lost in the old General's angry shout, as he flung
himself from his horse, and, with his sons at his heels, rushed into the
church. At the threshold they stopped with blanched faces, for, as they
entered, the girl, uttering a faint cry, her face whiter than her gown,
down which a little stream of blood was trickling, reeled and tottered, and
fell senseless into her husband's arms.


A few days later Major Johnson's Lexington _Chronicle_, under the heading
"Jarvis--Braxton," contained the following:

"Colonel William Jarvis, the distinguisbed and genial young turfman, and
Miss Susan Braxton, the beautiful and accomplished daughter of General
Thomas Anderson Braxton, the hero of two wars, whose name is a household
word wherever valor is honored and eloquence is admired, were united in
marriage Monday night. With the romance of youth, the young couple
determined to avoid the conventionalities of society, and only the bride's
father and two brothers were present. Immediately preceding the ceremony
the lovely bride was accidentally injured by the premature explosion of a
fire-arm, but her hosts of friends will be delighted to learn that the
mishap was not of a serious character. The young couple are now the guests
of General Braxton at the historic Elms. We are informed, however, that
Colonel Jarvis contemplates retiring from the turf and purchasing a
stock-farm near Lexington. As a souvenir of his marriage he has promised
his distinguished father-in-law the first three good horses he raises."




The Balance of Power


BY MAURICE THOMPSON

"I don't hesitate to say to you that I regard him as but a small remove in
nature from absolute trash, Phyllis--absolute trash! His character may be
good--doubtless it is; but he is not of good family, and he shows it. What
is he but a mountain cracker? There is no middle ground; trash is trash!"

Colonel Mobley Sommerton spoke in a rich bass voice, slowly rolling his
words. The bagging of his trousers at the knees made his straight legs
appear bent, as if for a jump at something, while his daughter Phyllis
looked at him searchingly, but not in the least impatiently, her fine gray
eyes wide open, and her face, with its delicately blooming cheeks, its
peach-petal lips, and its saucy little nose, all attention and
half-indignant surprise.

"Of course," the Colonel went on, with a conciliatory touch in his words,
when he had waited some time for his daughter to speak and she spoke
not--"of course you do not care a straw for him, Phyllis; I know that. The
daughter of a Sommerton couldn't care for such a--"

"I don't mind saying to you that I do care for him, and that I love him,
and want to marry him," broke in Phyllis, with tremulous vehemence, tears
gushing from her eyes at the same time; and a depth of touching pathos
seemed to open behind her words, albeit they rang like so many notes of
rank boldness in the old man's ears.

"Phyllis!" he exclaimed; then he stooped a little, his trousers bagging
still more, and he stood in an attitude almost stagy, a flare of choleric
surprise leaping into his face. "Phyllis Sommerton. what _do_ you mean? Are
you crazy? You say that to me?"

The girl--she was just eighteen--faced her father with a look at once
tearfully saucy and lovingly firm. The sauciness, however, was superficial
and physical, not in any degree a part of her mental mood. She could not,
had she tried, have been the least bit wilful or impertinent with her
father, who had always been a model of tenderness. Besides, a girl never
lived who loved a parent more unreservedly than Phyllis loved Colonel
Sommerton.

"Go to your room, miss! go to your room! Step lively at that, and let me
have no more of this nonsense. Go! I command you!"

The stamp with which the Colonel's rather substantial boot just then shook
the floor seemed to generate some current of force sufficient to whirl
Phyllis about and send her up-stairs in an old-fashioned fit of hysteria.
She was crying and talking and running all at the same time, her voice made
liquid like a bird's, and yet jangling with its mixed emotions. Down fell
her wavy, long, brown hair almost to her feet, one rich strand trailing
over the rail as she mounted the steps, while the rustling of her muslin
dress told off the springy motion of her limbs till she disappeared in the
gilt-papered gloom aloft, where the windowless hall turned at right angles
with the stairway.

Colonel Sommerton was smiling grimly by this time, and his iron-gray
mustache quivered humorously.

"She's a little brick," he muttered; "a chip off the old log--by zounds,
she is! She means business. Got the bit in her teeth, and fairly splitting
the air!" He chuckled raucously. "Let her go; she'll soon tire out."

Sommerton Place, a picturesque old mansion, as mansions have always gone in
north Georgia, stood in a grove of oaks on a hill-top overlooking a little
mountain town, beyond which uprose a crescent of blue peaks against a
dreamy summer sky. Behind the house a broad plantation rolled its
billow-like ridges of corn and cotton.

The Colonel went out on the veranda and lit a cigar, after breaking two or
three matches that he nervously scratched on a column.

This was the first quarrel that he had ever had with Phyllis.

Mrs. Sommerton had died when Phyllis was twelve years old, leaving the
little girl to be brought up in a boarding-school in Atlanta. The widowed
man did not marry again, and when his daughter came home, six months before
the opening of our story, it was natural that he should see nothing but
loveliness in the fair, bright, only child of his happy wedded life, now
ended forever.

The reader must have taken for granted that the person under discussion in
the conversation touched upon at the outset of this writing was a young
man; but Tom Bannister stood for more than the sum of the average young
man's values. He was what in our republic is recognized as a promising
fellow, bright, magnetic, shifty, well forward in the neologies of society,
business, and politics, a born leader in a small way, and as ambitious as
poverty and a brimming self-esteem could make him. From his humble
law-office window he had seen Phyllis pass along the street in the old
Sommerton carriage, and had fallen in love as promptly as possible with her
plump, lissome form and pretty face.

He sought her acquaintance, avoided with cleverness a number of annoying
barriers, assaulted her heart, and won it, all of which stood as mere play
when compared with climbing over the pride and prejudice of Colonel
Sommerton. For Bannister was nobody in a social way, as viewed from the
lofty top of the hill at Sommerton Place; indeed, all of his kinspeople
were mountaineers, honest, it is true, but decidedly woodsy, who tilled
stony acres in a pocket beyond the first blue ridge yonder. His education
seemed good, but it had been snatched from the books by force, with the
savage certainty of grip which belongs to genius.

Colonel Sommerton, having unbounded confidence in Phyllis's aristocratic
breeding, would not open his eyes to the attitude of the young people until
suddenly it came into his head that possibly the almost briefless plebeian
lawyer had ulterior designs while climbing the hill, as he was doing
noticeably often, from town to Sommerton Place. But when this thought
arrived the Colonel was prompt to act. He called up the subject at once,
and we have seen the close of his interview with Phyllis.

Now he stood on the veranda and puffed his cigar with quick, short
draughts, as a man does who falters between two horns of a dilemma. He
turned his head to one side as if listening to his own thoughts, his tall,
pointed collar meantime fitting snugly in a crease of his furrowed jaw.

At this moment the shambling, yet in a way facile, footsteps of Barnaby,
the sporadic freedman of the household, were soothing. Colonel Sommerton
turned his eyes on the comer inquiringly, almost eagerly.

"Well, Barn, you're back," he said.

"Yah, sah; I'se had er confab wid 'em," remarked the negro, seating himself
on the top step of the veranda, and mopping his coal-black face with a red
cotton handkerchief; "an' hit do beat all. Niggahs is mos'ly eejits,
spacially w'en yo' wants 'em to hab some sense."

He was a huge, ill-shapen, muscular fellow, old but still vigorous, and in
his small black eyes twinkled an unsounded depth of shrewdness. He had been
the Colonel's slave from his young manhood to the close of the war; since
then he had hung around Ellijay what time he was not sponging a livelihood
from Sommerton Place under color of doing various light turns in the
vegetable garden, and of attending to his quondam master's horses.

Barnaby was a great banjoist, a charming song-singer, and a leader of the
negroes around about. Lately he wa