you again. You
must go. Never before did I know them to linger after a show was
over. They will give you presents."

"I care not for them," Beric said.

"You must take them," Scopus said, "or you will undo the favourable
impression you have made, which will be useful to you should you
ever enter the arena again and be conquered. Go, go!"

Beric again entered the arena, and the attendants led him up to
the emperor, who presented him with a gold bracelet, saying:

"I will speak to you again, Beric. I had wondered that you and
your people should have resisted Suetonius so long, but I wonder
no longer."

Then Beric was led round the arena. Ladies threw down rings and
bracelets to him. These were gathered up by the attendants and handed
to him as he bowed to the givers. Norbanus, his wife, and daughter
had already left their seats, surrounded by friends congratulating
them, and bearing with them the still insensible girl. Having made
the tour of the arena Beric again saluted the audience and retired.
One of the imperial attendants met them as they left the building.

"The emperor bids me say, Scopus, that when Beric is recovered from
his wound he is to attend at the palace."

"I thought the emperor meant well towards you," Scopus said. "You
will in any case fight no more in the arena."

"How is that?" Beric asked in surprise.

"Did you not hear the shouts of the people the last time you entered,
Beric?"

"I heard a great confused roar, but in truth I was feeling somewhat
faint from loss of blood, and did not catch any particular sounds."

"They shouted that you were free from the arena henceforth. It
is their custom when a gladiator greatly distinguishes himself to
declare him free, though I have never known one before freed on
his first appearance. The rule is that a gladiator remains for two
years in the ring, but that period is shortened should the people
deem that he has earned his life by his courage and skill. For a
moment I was sorry when I heard it, but perhaps it is better as it
is. Did you remain for two years, and fight and conquer at every
show, you could gain no more honour than you have done. Now I will
get a lectica and have you carried out to the hills. You are not
fit to walk."

They were joined outside by Porus and Lupus. The former was warm
in his congratulation.

"By the gods, Beric, though I knew well that you would gain a great
triumph in the arena when your time came, I never thought to see
you thus fighting with the beasts unarmed. Why, Milo himself was
not stronger, and he won thirteen times at the Olympian and Pythian
games. He would have won more, but no one would venture to enter
against him. Why, were you to go on practising for another five years,
you would be as strong as he was, and as you are as skilful as you
are strong it would go hard with any that met you. I congratulated
myself, I can tell you, when I heard the people shout that you were
free of the arena, for if by any chance we had been drawn against
each other, I might as well have laid down my net and asked you to
finish me at once without trouble."

"It was but a happy thought, Porus: if a man could be caught in
a net, why not a lion blinded in a cloak? That once done the rest
was easy."

"Well, I don't want any easy jobs of that sort," Porus said. "But
let us go into a wine shop; a glass will bring the colour again to
your cheeks."

"No, no, Porus," Scopus said. "Do you and Lupus drink, and I will
drink with you, but no wine for Beric. I will get him a cup of hot
ass's milk; that will give him strength without fevering his blood.
Here is a place where they sell it. I will go in with him first,
and then join you there; but take not too much. You have a long
walk back, and I guess, Lupus, that your head already hums from the
blow that Briton gave it. By Bacchus, these Britons are fine men!
I thought you had got an easy thing of it, when boom! and there
you were stretched out like a dead man."

"It was a trick," Lupus said angrily, "a base trick."

"Not at all," Scopus replied. "You fought as if in war; and in war
if you had an opponent at close quarters, and could not use your
sword's point, you would strike him down with the hilt if you could.
As I have told you over and over again, you are a good swordsman,
but you don't know everything yet by a long way, and you are so
conceited that you never will. I hoped that drubbing Beric gave
you a few days after he joined us would have done you good, but I
don't see that it has. There are some men who never seem to learn.
If it had not been for you our ludus would have triumphed all round
today; but when one sees a man we put forward as one of our best
swordsmen defeated by a raw Briton, people may well say, 'Scopus
has got one or two good men; there is Beric, he is a marvel; and
Porus is good with the net; but as for the rest, I don't value them
a straw."

The enraged gladiator sprang upon Scopus, but the latter seized
him by the waist and hurled him down with such force that he was
unable to rise until Porus assisted him to his feet. As to Scopus,
he paid him no farther attention, but putting his hand on Beric's
shoulder led him into the shop. A long draught of hot milk did
wonders for Beric, and he proposed walking, but Scopus would not
hear of it.

"Sit down here for five minutes," he said, "till I have a cup
of wine with the others. I should think Lupus must need it pretty
badly, what with the knock on the head and the tumble I have just
given him. I am not sorry that he was beaten by your countryman, for
since he has had the luck to win two or three times in the arena,
his head has been quite turned. He would never have dared to lay
his hand on me had he not been half mad, for he knows well enough
that I could strangle him with one hand. The worst of him is, that
the fellow bears malice. He has never forgiven you the thrashing
you administered to him. Now I suppose he will be sulky for weeks;
but if he does it will be worse for him, for I will cut off his
wine, and that will soon bring him to his senses."

Scopus had gone but a few minutes when he returned with a lectica,
which was a sort of palanquin, carried by four stout countrymen.

"Really, Scopus, it is ridiculous that I should be carried along
the streets like a woman."

"Men are carried as well as women, Beric, and as you are a wounded
man you have a double right to be carried. Here is a bag with all
those ornaments you got. It is quite heavy to lift."

The bearers protested loudly at the weight of their burden when they
lifted the lectica, but the promise of a little extra pay silenced
their complaints. They were scarcely beyond the city when Beric,
who was weaker from loss of blood than he imagined, dozed off to
sleep, and did not wake till the lectica was set down in the atrium
of the house on the Alban Hills.

Next morning he was extremely stiff, and found himself obliged to
continue on his couch.

"It is of no use your trying to get up," Scopus said; "the muscles
of your flank are badly torn, and you must remain quiet."

An hour later a rheda or four wheeled carriage drove up to the door,
and in another minute Norbanus entered Beric's cubicle. There were
tears in his eyes as he held out both hands to him. "Ah, my friend,"
he said, "how happy you must be in the happiness you caused to us!
Who could have thought, when I entertained, as a passing guest,
the friend of Pollio, that he would be the saviour of my family?
You must have thought poorly of us yesterday that I was not at the
exit from the amphitheatre to meet and thank you. But I hurried
home with Ennia, and having left her in charge of her mother and
sister came back to find you, but you had left, and I could learn
no news of you. I searched for some time, and then guessing that
you had been brought home by Scopus, I went back to the child, who
is sorely ill. I fear that the strain has been too much for her,
and that we shall lose her. But how different from what it would
have been! To die is the lot of us all, and though I shall mourn
my child, it will be a different thing indeed from seeing her torn
to pieces before my eyes by the lion. She has recovered from her
faint, but she lies still and quiet, and scarce seems to hear what
is said to her. Her eyes are open, she has a happy smile on her
lips, and I believe that she is well content now that she has done
what she deems her duty to her God. She smiled when I told her this
morning that I was coming over to see you, and said in a whisper,
'I shall see him again, father.'"

"Would she like to see me now?" Beric said, making an effort to
rise.

"No, not now, Beric. I don't think somehow that she meant that. The
leech said that she must be kept perfectly quiet; but I will send
a slave with a letter to you daily. Oh, what a day was yesterday!
The woes of a lifetime seemed centred in an hour. I know not how
I lived as I sat there and waited for the fatal moment. All the
blood in my veins seemed to freeze up as she was left alone in the
arena. A mist came over my eyes. I tried to close them, but could
not. I saw nothing of the amphitheatre, nothing of the spectators,
nothing but her, till, at the sudden shout from the crowd, I roused
myself with a start. When I saw you beside her I thought at first
that I dreamed; but Aemilia suddenly clasped my arm and said, 'It
is Beric!' Then I hoped something, I know not what, until Nero said
that you must meet the lion unarmed.

"Then I thought all was over--that two victims were to die instead
of one. I tried to rise to cry to you to go, for that I would die
by Ennia, but my limbs refused to support me; and though I tried
to shout I did but whisper. What followed was too quick for me to
mark. I saw the beast spring at you; I saw a confused struggle; but
not until I saw you rise and bow, while the lion rolled over and
over, bound and helpless, did I realize that what seemed impossible
had indeed come to pass, and that you, unarmed and alone, had truly
vanquished the terrible beast.

"I hear that all Rome is talking of nothing else. My friends, who
poured in all the evening to congratulate us, told me so, and that
no such feat had ever been seen in the arena."

"It does not seem much to me, Norbanus," Beric said. "It needed
only some coolness and strength, though truly I myself doubted,
when Nero gave the order to fight without weapons, if it could be
done. I cannot but think that Ennia's God and mine aided me."

"It is strange," Norbanus said, "that one so young and weak as Ennia
should have shown no fear, and that the other Christians should all
have met their fate with so wonderful a calm. As you know, I have
thought that all religions were alike, each tribe and nation having
its own. But methinks there must be something more in this when
its votaries are ready so to die for it."

"Do not linger with me," Beric said. "You must be longing to be
with your child. Pray, go at once. She must be glad to have you by
her, even if she says little. I thank you for your promise to send
news to me daily. If she should express any desire to see me, I
will get Scopus to provide a vehicle to carry me to Rome; but in
a few days I hope to be about."

"Your first visit must be to Caesar, when you are well enough to
walk," Norbanus said. "They tell me he bade you come to see him,
and he would be jealous did he know that he was not the first in
your thoughts."

Norbanus returned to Rome, and each day a letter came to Beric. The
news was always the same; there was no change in Ennia's condition.

Beric's wound healed rapidly. Hard work and simple living had
so toughened his frame that a wound that might have been serious
affected him only locally, and mended with surprising rapidity.
In a week he was up and about, and three days later he felt well
enough to go to Rome.

"You would have been better for a few days more rest," Scopus said,
"but Nero is not fond of being kept waiting; and if he really wishes
to see you it would be well that you present yourself as soon as
possible."

"I care nothing for Nero," Beric said; "but I should be glad, for the
sake of Norbanus, to see his daughter. It may be that my presence
might rouse her and do her good. I want none of Nero's favours; they
are dangerous at best. His liking is fatal. He has now murdered
Britannicus, his wife Octavia, and his mother Agrippina. He
has banished Seneca, and every other adviser he had he has either
executed or driven into exile."

"That is all true enough, Beric, though it is better not said.
Still, you must remember you have no choice. There is no thwarting
Nero; if he designs to bestow favours upon you, you must accept
them. I agree with you that they are dangerous; but you know how
to guard yourself. A man who has fought a lion with naked hands may
well manage to escape even the clutches of Nero. He has struck down
the greatest and richest; but it is easier for one who is neither
great nor rich to escape. At any rate, Beric, I have a faith in
your fortune. You have gone through so much, that I think surely
some god protects you. By the way, what are you going to do with
that basketful of women's ornaments that I have locked up in my
coffer?"

"I thought no more about them, Scopus."

"I should advise you to sell them. In themselves they are useless
to you. But once turned into money they may some day stand you
in good stead. They are worth a large sum, I can tell you, and I
don't care about keeping them here. None of my school are condemned
malefactors. I would never take such men, even to please the wealthiest
patron. But there is no use in placing temptation before any, and
Porus and Lupus will have told how the Roman ladies flung their
bracelets to you. I will take them down to a goldsmith who works
for some of my patrons, and get him to value them, if you will."

"Thank you, Scopus, I shall be glad to get rid of them. How would
you dress for waiting on Caesar?"

"I have been thinking it over," Scopus said. "I should say well,
and yet not too well. You are a free man, for although Nero disposed
of you as if you had been slaves, you were not enslaved nor did you
bear the mark of slavery, therefore you have always dressed like a
free man. Again, you are a chief among your own people; therefore,
as I say, I should dress well but quietly. Nero has many freedmen
about him, and though some of these provoke derision by vying with
the wealthiest, this I know would never be done by you, even did
you bask in the favour of Nero. A white tunic and a paenula of fine
white cloth or a lacerna, both being long and ample so as to fall
in becoming folds, would be the best. As I shall ride into Rome
with you, you can there get one before going to see Nero."

On arriving at Rome Beric was soon fitted with a cloak of fine
white stuff, the folds of which showed off his figure to advantage.
Scopus accompanied him to Nero's palace.

"I know several of his attendants," he said, "and can get you passed
in to the emperor, which will save you waiting hours, perhaps,
before you can obtain an audience."

Taking him through numerous courts and along many passages they
reached a chamber where several officials of the palace were walking
and talking, waiting in readiness should they be required by Nero.
Scopus went up to one with whom he was well acquainted. After the
usual greetings he explained to him that he had, in accordance with
Nero's order, brought the young Briton, Beric, who had conquered
the lion in the arena, and begged him to ask the emperor whether
he would choose to give him audience at present.

"I will acquaint his chief chamberlain at once, Scopus, and will
ask him, for your sake, to choose his moment for telling Nero. It
may make a great difference in the fortunes of the young man whether
Caesar is in a good temper or not when he receives him. It is not
often at present that he is in bad humour. Since the fire his mind
has been filled with great ideas, and he thinks of little but making
the city in all respects magnificent, and as he loves art in every
way this is a high delight to him; therefore, unless aught has
gone wrong with him, he will be found accessible. I will go to the
chamberlain at once, my Scopus."

It was half an hour before he returned. "The chamberlain said that
there could not be a better time for your gladiator to see Caesar,
and therefore he has spoken to him at once, and Nero has ordered
the Briton to be brought to him. These two officials will conduct
him at once to his presence."

Beric was taken in charge by the two ushers, and was led along several
passages, in each of which a guard was on duty, until they reached
a massive door. Here two soldiers were stationed. The ushers knocked.
Another official presented himself at the door, and, beckoning to
Beric to follow him, pushed aside some rich hangings heavy with
gold embroidery. They were now in a small apartment, the walls of
which were of the purest white marble, and the furniture completely
covered with gold. Crossing this he drew another set of hangings
aside, entered with Beric, bowed deeply, and saying, "This is the
Briton, Caesar," retired, leaving Beric standing before the emperor.

The apartment was of moderate size, exquisitely decorated in Greek
fashion. One end was open to a garden, where plants and shrubs of
the most graceful foliage, brought from many parts of the world,
threw a delicious shade. Statues of white marble gleamed among
them, and fountains of perfumed waters filled the air with sweet
odours. Nero sat in a simple white tunic upon a couch, while a
black slave, of stature rivalling that of Beric, kneeled in front
of him holding out a great sheet of parchment with designs of some
of the decorations of his new palace. Nero waved his hand, and the
slave, rolling up the parchment, took his stand behind the emperor's
couch. The latter looked long and steadily at him before speaking,
as if to read his disposition.

"Beric," he said, "I have seen you risk your life for one who was
but little to you, for I have spoken to Norbanus, and have learned
from him the nature of your acquaintance with him, and found that
you have seen but little of this young maiden for whom you were
ready to risk what seemed certain death. Moreover, she was but
a young girl, and her life can have had no special value in your
eyes; therefore, it seems to me that you are one who would be a true
and faithful friend indeed to a man who on his part was a friend
to you. You have the other qualities of bravery and skill and
strength. Moreover, you belong to no party in Rome. I have inquired
concerning you, and find that although Pollio, the nephew of
Norbanus, introduced you to many of his friends, you have gone but
little among them, but have spent your time much, when not in the
ludus, in the public libraries. Being myself a lover of books, the
report inclines me the more toward you. I feel that I could rely
upon you, and you would find in me not a master but a friend. Of
those around me I can trust but few. They serve from interest, and
if their interest lay the other way they would desert me. I have
many enemies, and though the people love me, the great families,
whose connections and relations are everywhere, think only of their
private aims and ends, and many deem themselves to have reasons
for hatred against me. I need one like you, brave, single minded,
resolute, and faithful to me, who would be as simple and as true
when raised to wealth and honour as you have shown yourself when
but a simple gladiator. Wilt thou be such a one to me?"

"I am but ill fitted for such a post, Caesar," Beric said gravely.
"I have been a chief and leader of my own people, and my tongue
would never bring itself to utter the flattering words used by those
who surround an imperial throne. Monarchs love not the truth, and
my blunt speech would speedily offend you. A faithful guard to
your majesty I might be, more than that I fear I never could be,
for even to please you, Nero, I could not say aught except what I
thought."

"I should expect and wish for no more," Nero said. "It is good
to hear the truth sometimes. I heard it from Seneca; but, alas! I
did not value it then as I should have done. I am older and wiser
now. Besides, Seneca was a Roman, and necessarily mixed up in the
intrigues that are ever on foot, and connected with half the great
families in Rome. You stand alone, and I should know that whatever
you said the words would be your own, and would not have been put
in your mouth by others, and even when your opinions ran counter
to mine I should respect them. Well, what do you say?"

"It is not for me to bargain with the master of Rome," Beric said.
"I am ready to be your man, Caesar, to lay down my life in your
defence, to be your guard as a faithful hound might be; only, I
pray you, take me not in any way into your confidence as to state
affairs, for of these I am wholly ignorant. My ideas are those of a
simple British chief. Rome and its ways are too complicated for me
to understand, and were you to speak to me on such matters I should
soon forfeit your favour. For we in Britain are, as it were, people
of another world--simple and straightforward in our thoughts and
ways, and with no ideas of state expediency. Therefore, I pray you,
let me stand aloof from all such matters, and regard me simply as
one ready to strike and die in your defence, and as having no more
interest or knowledge of state affairs and state intrigues than
those statues in the garden there."

"So be it," Nero said. "You are modest, Beric, and modesty is a
virtue rare in Rome; but I appreciate your honesty, and feel sure
that I can rely upon you for faithful service. Let me see, to what
office shall I appoint you? I cannot call you my bodyguard, for this
would excite the jealousy of the Praetorians." He sat in thought
for a minute. "Ah!" he exclaimed, "you are fond of books, I will
appoint you my private librarian. My libraries are vast, but I
will have a chamber close to mine own fitted up with the choicest
books, so that I can have ready at hand any that I may require.
This will be an excuse for having you always about my person."

"I do not speak Greek, Caesar."

"You shall have under you a Greek freedman, one Chiton, who is
now in my library. He will take charge of the rolls, for I do not
intend that you should remain shut up there. It is but a pretext
for your presence here."

He touched a bell and a servant entered. "Tell Phaon to come to
me." A minute later Phaon, a freedman who stood very high in the
confidence of Nero, entered.

"Phaon," the emperor said, "this is Beric the Briton, he has entered
my service, and will have all my trust and confidence even as you
have. Prepare for him apartments close to mine, and appoint slaves
for his service. See that he has everything in accordance with his
position as a high official of the palace. Let one of the rooms
be furnished with sets of books, of which I will give you a list,
from my library. Chiton is to be in charge of it under him. Beric
is to be called my private librarian. I wish him to be at all times
within call of me. You will be friends with Beric, Phaon, for he
is as honest as you are, and will be, like you, a friend of mine,
and, as you may perceive, is one capable of taking part of a friend
in case of need."

Phaon bowed deeply and signed to Beric to follow him; the latter
bowed to Nero, who nodded to him pleasantly, and left the room with
Phaon. The freedman took him to his private apartment.

"Nero has chosen well this time, methinks," he said after a close
scrutiny of the newcomer. "It is no easy post on which you have
entered, Beric. Nero is changeable in his moods, but you carry
your heart in your face, and even he can have no suspicions of you.
Take my advice, make friends with no man, for one who stands high
in court favour today may be an exile or condemned tomorrow, and
then all connected with him in any way are apt to share his fate;
therefore, it is best to stand quite alone. By tomorrow morning
you will find everything in readiness for you here."



CHAPTER XVI: IN NERO'S PALACE


Upon leaving Phaon, Beric was conducted to the room where he had
left Scopus. The latter at once joined him, and without asking any
questions left the palace with him.

"I would ask nothing until you were outside," Scopus said. "They
were wondering there at the long audience you have had with Nero.
Judging by the gravity of your face, things have not gone well with
you."

"They have gone well in one sense," Beric said, "though I would
vastly rather that they had gone otherwise. I feel very much more
fear now than when I stood awaiting the attack of the lion."

And he then related to Scopus the conversation he had had with
Nero. The lanista inclined himself humbly to the ground.

"You are a great man now, Beric, though, as you say, the place is
not without its dangers. I guessed when Caesar sent for you that
he purposed to use your strength and courage in his service. Your
face is one that invites trust, and Nero was wise enough to see
that if he were to trust you he must trust you altogether. He has
acted wisely. He deemed that, having no friends and connections in
Rome, he could rely upon you as he could rely upon no one who is
a native here. You will be a great man, for a time at any rate."

"I would rather have remained at your ludus, Scopus. I shall feel
like a little dog I saw the other day in a cage of one of the
lions. The beast seemed fond of it, but the little creature knew
well that at any moment the lion might stretch out its paw and
crush it."

Scopus nodded.

"That is true enough, Beric, though there are tens of thousands in
Rome who would gladly run the risk for the sake of the honour and
profit. Still, as I said to you before we started, I have faith in
your good fortune and quickness, and believe that you may escape
from the bars where another would lose his skin. Tell to none but
myself what Caesar has said to you. The world will soon guess that
your post as private librarian is but a pretext for Caesar to have
you near him. It is not by such a post that the victor of the arena
would be rewarded." They now went together to a goldsmith.

"Ah! Scopus, I have been expecting you. I saw you in the arena
with your two gladiators. Afterwards I saw this tall young Briton
fight the lion, and when I heard that he was at your ludus I said
to myself, 'Scopus will be bringing him to me to dispose of some
of the jewelry to which the ladies were so prodigal.'"

"That is our errand, Rufus. Here is the bag."

The goldsmith opened it.

"You don't expect me to name a price for all these articles, Scopus?
It will take me a day to examine and appraise them; and, indeed, I
shall have to go to a friend or two for money, for there is enough
here to stock a shop. Never did I know our ladies so liberal of
their gifts."

"Ah!" Scopus said, "and you don't often see gifts so well deserved;
but, mind you, if it had been I who had fought the lion--I, who
have nothing to recommend me in the way of either stature or looks
--it would have been a very different thing. Youth and stature and
good looks go for a great deal even in the arena, I can tell you.
Well, Beric will call in a day or two. Here is the inventory of the
jewels; I have got a copy at home. Do you put the price you will
give against each, and then he can sell or not as he pleases. He
is not going to sacrifice them, Rufus, for he has no need of money;
Caesar has just appointed him to his household."

The manner of the jeweller changed at once.

"The list shall be ready for you in two days," he said to Beric
respectfully. "If you have need of money on account now I can let
you have as much as you will." Beric shook his head.

"I have all that I require," he said. "I will return it may be in
two days, it may be more--I know not precisely how much my duties
may occupy me."

"You will get full value for your goods," Scopus said when they left
the shop--"that was why I mentioned that you had entered Nero's
household, for it is a great thing to have a friend at court."

"And how about yourself, Scopus? You have kept me and trained me
for months. Now you are going to lose my services just when you
might begin to get a return. Moreover, I may tell you that I shall
as soon as possible get Boduoc with me. So you must name a sum
which will amply recompense you for the trouble and expense that
you have had with us."

"I shall be no loser, Beric. When captives in war are sent to
be trained in a ludus the lanista is paid for a year's keep and
tuition for them. After that he makes what he can from those who
give entertainments. Therefore I received from the imperial treasury
the regular amount for you and your comrades. Moreover, the senator
who gave the performances sent me a very handsome sum--more than
he had agreed to give me for Porus and Lupus together--saying
that, although he had not engaged you, your deeds in the arena had
delighted the people beyond measure, and that as his show would be
talked about for years, it was but fair he should pay your lanista
a sum worthy of the performance. And now farewell! You know that I
and your comrades at the ludus will always be glad to see you. We
shall be back in Rome as soon as my place is rebuilt."

"You may be sure that I will come, Scopus. You have shown me much
kindness, and if in any way I can repay you I will do so. Tell Boduoc
I hope very shortly to have him with me, and that maybe I shall be
able to find means of withdrawing the others from the arena."

As soon as they separated Beric walked rapidly to the house where
Norbanus had taken up his abode. As he reached the door he paused,
for he heard within the sounds of wailing, and felt that he had
come too late.

"Tell Norbanus," he said to the slave at the door, "that Beric is
here, but that unless he wishes to see me I will leave him undisturbed,
as I fear by the cries that the Lady Ennia is dead."

"She died early this morning," the slave said. "I will tell my
master that you are here."

He returned almost directly.

"Norbanus prays you to enter," he said, and led the way to the
magistrate's study.

"Ah, my friend," the Roman said, "it is over! Ennia died this
morning. She passed away as if in sleep. It is a terrible grief
to me. Thanks to the gods I can bear that as becomes a Roman; but
how would it have been had I seen her torn to pieces under my eyes?
Ah, Beric you know not from what you have saved us! We could never
have lifted up our heads again had she died so. Now we shall grieve
for her as all men grieve for those they love; but it will be a
grief without pain, for assuredly she died happy. She spoke of you
once or twice, and each time she said, 'I shall see him again.' I
think she was speaking her belief, that she should meet you after
death. The Christian belief in a future state is like yours, you
know, Beric, rather than like ours."

"She was a gentle creature," Beric said, "and as she dared even
death by the lions for her God, assuredly she will go to the Happy
Island, though it may not be the same that the Druids tell us
Britons of. And how are the Ladies Lesbia and Aemilia?"

"My wife is well," the magistrate said. "She has not the consolations
of philosophy as I have, but I think that she feels it is better
for the child herself that she should have so died. Ennia would
always have remained a Christian, and fresh troubles and persecutions
would have come. Besides, her religion would have put her apart
from her mother and her family. To me, of course, it would have made
no difference, holding the views that I do as to the religions of
the world; but my wife sees things in a different light. Aemilia
is worn out with watching and grief, but I know that she will see
you presently, that is, if you are not compelled to return at once
to the hills."

"I return there no more. I have seen Nero today, and he has appointed
me an official in his household. It will seem ridiculous to you
when I say that I am to be his private librarian. That, of course,
is but a pretext to keep me near his person, deeming that I am
strong enough to be a useful guard to him, and being a stranger
am not likely to be engaged in any intrigue that may be going on.
I would rather have remained at the ludus for a time; but there is
no refusing the offers of an emperor, and he spoke to me fairly,
and I answered him as one man should do another, frankly and openly."

"Nero has done wisely," Norbanus said warmly, "though for you
the promotion is perilous. To be Nero's friend is to be condemned
beforehand to death, though for a time he may shower favours upon
you. He is fickle and inconstant, and you have not learned to
cringe and flatter, and are as likely as not to anger him by your
outspoken utterances."

"I shall assuredly say what I think if he questions me," Beric said
quietly; "but if he values me as a guard, he will scarce question
me when he knows that I should express an opinion contrary to his
own."

"When do you enter his service, Beric?"

"I am to present myself tomorrow morning."

"Then you will stay with us tonight, Beric. This is a house of
mourning, but you are as one of ourselves. You must excuse ceremony,
for I have many arrangements to make, as Ennia will be buried
tomorrow."

"I will go out into the garden," Beric said.

"Do so. I will send up word to Aemilia that you are there. Doubtless
she would rather meet you there than before the slaves."

Beric had been sitting in the shade for half an hour when he saw
Aemilia coming towards him. Her face was swollen with crying, and
the tears were still streaming down her cheeks. Beric took her
hand, and would have bent over it, when she grasped his with both
of hers and pressed it to her lips.

"Oh, Beric," she cried, "what have you not done for us, and how much
do we not owe you! Had it not been for you, I should be mourning
now, not for Ennia who lies with a smile on her face in her chamber,
but for Ennia torn to pieces and devoured by the lion. It seemed
to me that I too should die, when suddenly you stood between her
and the fierce beast, seeming to my eyes as if a god had come down
to save her; and when all the people gave you up as lost, standing
there unarmed and calmly waiting the lion's attack, I felt that you
would conquer. Truly Ennia's God and yours must have stood beside
you, though I saw them not. How else could you have been so strong
and fearless? Ennia thought so too. She told me so one night when
the house was asleep, and I only watching beside her. 'My God was
with him,' she said. 'None other could have given him the strength
to battle with the lion. He will bring him to Himself in good time,
and I shall meet him again.' She said something about your knowing
that she was a Christian. But, of course, you could not have known
that."

"I did know it, Aemilia;" and Beric then told her of his meeting with
Ennia and the old slave when they were attacked by the plunderers
on the way home from their place of meeting. "She promised me not
to go again," he said, "without letting me know, in which case
I should have escorted her and protected her from harm. But just
after that there was the fire, and I had to go away with Scopus to
the Alban Hills; and so, as she knew that I could not escort her,
I never heard from her. I would that I had been with her that night
she was arrested, then she might not have fallen into the hands of
the guard. Indeed, had I been here I would have gone gladly, for it
seemed to me there must be something strange in the religion that
would induce a quiet gentle girl like her to go out at night unknown
to her parents. Now I desire even more to learn about it. Her God
must surely have given her the strength and courage that she showed
when she chose death by lions rather than deny Him."

"I, too, should like to know something about it," Aemilia said.
"By the way Ennia spoke, when she said you knew that she was a
Christian, it seemed to me that, if you did know, which I thought
was impossible, she thought you were angry with her for becoming
a Christian."

"I was angry with her not for being a Christian, but for going out
without your father's knowledge, and I told her so frankly. If it
had been you I should not have been so much surprised, because you
have high spirits and are fearless in disposition; but for her to
do so seemed so strange and unnatural, that I deemed this religion
of hers must be bad in that it taught a girl to deceive her parents."

"What did she say, Beric?"

"I could see that she considered it her duty beyond all other duties,
and so said no more, knowing nothing of her religion beyond what
your father told me."

"I wish Pollio had been here," the girl said; "he would have thought
as I do about the loss of Ennia. My father has his philosophy, and
considers it rather a good thing to be out of the world. My mother
was so horrified when she heard that Ennia was a Christian, that I
am sure she is relieved at her death. I am not a philosopher, and
it was nothing to me whether Ennia took up with this new sect or
not. So you see I have no one who can sympathize with me. You can't
think how dreadful the thought is that I shall be alone in future."

"We grow accustomed to all things," Beric said. "I have lost all
my relations, my country, and everything, and I am here a stranger
and little better than a slave, and yet life seems not so unpleasant
to me. In time this grief will be healed, and you will be happy
again."

"I am sure I should never have been happy, Beric, if she had died in
the arena. I should always have had it before my eyes--I should
have dreamt of it. But why do you say that until today you have
been almost a slave? Why is it different today?"

Beric told her of his new position.

"If I could take your position, and have your strength but for one
night," Aemilia said passionately, "I would slay the tyrant. He is
a monster. It is to him that Ennia's death is due. He has committed
unheard of crimes; and he will kill you, too, Beric. He kills all
those whom he once favours."

"I shall be on my guard, Aemilia; besides, my danger will not be
great, for he will have nothing to gain by my death. I shall keep
aloof from all intrigues, and he will have no reason to suspect
me. The danger, if danger there be, will come from my refusing to
carry out any of his cruel orders. I am ready to be a guard, but
not an executioner."

"I know how it will end," the girl sighed; "but I shall hope always.
You conquered the lion, maybe you will conquer Nero."

"Who is a very much less imposing creature," Beric smiled. A slave
girl at this moment summoned Aemilia into the house. She waited a
moment.

"Remember, Beric," she said, "that if trouble and danger come upon
you, any such poor aid as I can give will be yours. I am a Roman
girl. I have not the strength to fight as you have, but have the
courage to die; and as, at the risk of your life, you saved Ennia
for us, so would I risk my life to save yours. Remember that a
woman can plot and scheme, and that in dealing with Nero cunning
goes for as much as strength. We have many relatives and friends
here, too, and Ennia's death in the arena would have been viewed
as a disgrace upon the whole family; so that I can rely upon help
from them if need be. Remember that, should the occasion arise,
I shall feel your refusal of my help much more bitterly than any
misfortune your acceptance of it could bring upon me." Then turning,
the girl went up to the house.

On arriving at Nero's palace the next morning, and asking for Phaon,
Beric was at once conducted to his chamber.

"That is well," the freedman said as he entered. "Nero is in council
with his architects at present. I will show you to your chamber at
once, so that you will be in readiness."

The apartment to which Phaon led Beric was a charming one. It had
no windows in the walls, which were covered with exquisitely painted
designs, but light was given by an opening in the ceiling, under
which, in the centre of the room, was the shallow basin into which
the rain that penetrated through the opening fell. There were several
elegantly carved couches round the room. Some bronze statues stood
on plinths, and some pots of tall aquatic plants stood in the basin;
heavy hangings covered the entrance.

"Here," Phaon said, drawing one of them aside, "is your cubicule,
and here, next to it, is another. It is meant for a friend of the
occupant of the room; but I should not advise you to have anyone
sleep here. Nero would not sleep well did he know that any stranger
was so close to his apartment. This, and the entrance at the other
end of the room, lead into passages, while this," and he drew back
another curtain, "is the library."

This room was about the same size as that allotted to Beric,
being some twenty-five feet square. Short as the notice had been,
a wooden framework of cedar wood, divided into partitions fifteen
inches each way, had been erected round, and in each of these stood
a wooden case containing rolls of manuscripts, the name of the work
being indicated by a label affixed to the box. Seated at a table
in one of the angles was the Greek Chiton, who saluted Beric.

"We shall be good friends, I hope," Beric said, "for I shall have
to rely upon you entirely for the Greek books, and it is you who
will be the real librarian."

Chiton was a man of some thirty years of age, with a pale Greek
face; and looking at him earnestly Beric thought that it looked an
honest one. He had anticipated that the man Nero had chosen would
be placed as a spy over him; but he now concluded this was not so,
and that Nero at present trusted him entirely.

"This passage," Phaon said, "leads direct to Caesar's private
apartment, a few steps only separate them. The passage on this side
of your room also leads there, so that either from here or from it
you can be summoned at once. Now let us return to your room. It is
from there you will generally go to Nero when he summons you. That
door at the end of the short passage will not be kept locked, while
this one from the library cannot be opened from your side. Three
strokes of Nero's bell will be the signal that he requires you. If
after the three have sounded there is another struck smartly, you
will snatch up your sword and rush in instantly by night or day."

"What are my duties to be?" Beric asked when they had returned to
his room, "for Chiton can discharge those of librarian infinitely
better than I can do."

"You will sit and read here, or pass the time as you like, until
nine o'clock, at which hour Nero goes to the baths. At eleven he
goes out to inspect the works or to take part in public ceremonies.
At three he sups, and the meal lasts sometimes till seven or eight,
sometimes until midnight. Your duties in the library will end when
he goes to the baths, and after that you will be free, unless he
summons you to attend him abroad, until supper is concluded. At
night you will draw back the curtains between the passage and your
room and that of your cubicule, so that you may hear his summons,
or even his voice if loudly raised. You will lie down with your
sword ready at hand. I should say your duties will begin at six
in the morning, and it is only between that hour and nine that you
will be a prisoner in the library."

"I shall not find it an imprisonment," Beric said. "Three hours
is little enough to study, with all that wealth of books ready at
hand. How about Chiton?"

"He will be on duty whenever the emperor is in the palace; beyond
that he is free to go where he likes, so that he be ready at all
times to produce any book that Nero may call for. Your meals will
be brought up to you by your attendant from the imperial kitchen.
There are, you know, baths in the palace for the use of the
officials. You will find in this chest a supply of garments of all
kinds suitable for different occasions, and here, in the cubicule,
ready to hand, are a sword and dagger, with a helmet, breastplate,
and shield, to be worn only when Caesar desires you to accompany
him armed. If there is anything else that you require, you have
but to give the order to your attendant, who will obtain it from
the steward of the palace."

At this moment a slave drew aside the hanging: "Caesar expects you,
Beric."

Nero was standing at the top of the steps into the garden when
Beric entered.

"Walk with me, Beric," he said. "For three hours I have been going
into the affairs of the city, and hearing letters read from the
governors of the provinces. It will be a change to talk of other
things. Tell me about this Britain of yours. I know about your
wars, tell me of your life at home."

Beric at once complied. He saw that it was not information about
religion and customs that the emperor desired to hear, but talk about
simple matters that would distract his thoughts from the cares of
state. He talked, then, of his native village, of his mother with
her maids at work around her, of hunting expeditions as a boy with
Boduoc, and how both had had a narrow escape of being devoured by
wolves. Nero listened in silence as they strolled under the deep
shade of the trees. At times he hardly seemed to be listening, but
occasionally he asked a question that showed he was following what
Beric said.

"Your talk is like a breath from the snow clad mountains," he said
at last, "or a cup of cold water to a thirsty traveller. The word
Romans never occurred in it, and yet it was in our tongue. You were
brought up among us, as I heard. Tell me of that."

Briefly Beric described his life at Camalodunum.

"It is a strange mixture," Nero said; "the cultivated Roman and
the wild Briton. I understand now better than I did before, your
risking your life for the Christian girl in the arena. You did not
love her?"

"No, Caesar; we Britons do not think of marriage until we are at
least five-and-twenty. We hold that young marriages deteriorate a
race. Ennia was little more than a child, according to our notions.
She was scarce sixteen, and when I saw her before, for a few days
only, she was a year younger; but I think that I should have done
the same had I never seen her before. We Britons, like the Gauls,
hold women in high respect, and I think that few of my people would
hesitate to risk their lives to save a helpless woman."

"I think we are all for self here," Nero said; "but we can admire
what we should not think of imitating. I like you, Beric, because
you are so different from myself and from all around me. We are
products of Rome, you of the forest; every man here sighs for power
or wealth, or lives for pleasure--I as much as any. We suffer
none to stand in our way, but trample down remorselessly all who
hinder us. As to risking our lives for the sake of a woman, and
that woman almost a stranger, such an idea would never so much as
occur to us. This is not the only girl you have saved. I received
a letter from Caius Muro some months ago, saying that the news
had come to him in Syria that Beric, the young chief of the Iceni,
who had so long withstood Suetonius, had been brought a prisoner
to Rome, and he besought me, should Beric still be alive, to show
favour to him, as he had saved his little daughter, when all others
had been slain, at the sack of Camalodunum, and that he had hidden
her away until after the defeat of Boadicea, and had then sent her
safe and unharmed back to the Romans. The matter escaped my mind
till now, though, in truth, I bade my secretary write to him to say
that I would befriend you. But it is strange that, having so much
life and spirit in that great body of yours, you should yet hold
life so cheaply. It was the way with our forefathers, but it is
not so now, perhaps because our life is more pleasant than theirs
was. Tell me, has Phaon done all to make you comfortable? Is there
aught else that you would wish? if so, speak freely."

"There is one thing I should like, Caesar; I should like to have
with me my follower Boduoc, he who was the companion of my boyhood,
who fought with me in that hut against the wolves, and was ever by
my side in the struggle among our fens. I ask this partly for my
own sake, and partly that I may the better do the duty you have
set me of acting as your guard. The air of palaces is heavy, and
men wake not from sleep as when they lie down in the forest and
carry their lives in their hands. I might not hear your call; but
with him with me we could keep alternate watch through the night,
and the slightest sounds would reach our ears. We could even take
post close to the hangings of your chamber, just as the Praetorians
guard all the avenues on the other side. I might even go further.
There were twenty of my countrymen brought hither with me. All
are picked men, not one but in strength and courage is my equal.
I would say, place them in offices in the palace; make them door
keepers, or place some of them here as labourers under your gardeners,
then at all times you would have under your orders a body of twenty
devoted men, who would escort you in safety though half Rome were
in tumult. They would sleep together among the slaves, where I
could instantly summon them. I can answer for their fidelity, they
would follow me to the death against any foe I bade them attack."

"It is an excellent idea, Beric, and shall be carried out. They
were all sent to the ludi, if I mistake not, and will have skill as
well as strength and courage. I will bid my secretary send an order
for their discharge, and that they present themselves to Phaon
tomorrow. He will find occupations for them, and I will myself
bid him so dispose of them that they shall be well satisfied with
their appointments. Truly, as you say, a guard of twenty gladiators
of your strength and courage might well defend me against a host.
Now it is time that I went to my bath."

Upon the following day the British captives were all disposed as
door keepers in the palace. Beric was present when they presented
themselves before Phaon, and had afterwards a private interview
with them. They were delighted at finding that they were again
under his leadership. All hated as much as ever the occupation of
gladiator, although only the man who had defeated Lupus had as yet
appeared in the arena.

"Your duties will be simple and easy," Beric said. "You will only
have to see that no strangers pass you without authority. Each
of you will have one or more attendants with you, who will take
the names of those who present themselves to those whom they wish
to see, and will, on bringing an authorization for them to pass,
escort them to the person with whom they have business. Of course
the orders will be different at different posts, but these you
will receive from the officials of the chamberlain. You will be on
duty, as I learn, for six hours each day, and will for the rest of
the time be free to go where you please. I suppose by this time all
of you have learned sufficient Latin to converse freely. Remember
that at nine o'clock in the evening you must all be in the palace.
Phaon has arranged for an apartment that you will occupy together.
There you will keep your arms, and be always ready, when you receive
a message from me, to attend prepared for fighting. There is one
thing more: do not mingle with the Romans more than you can help;
listen to no tales relating to the emperor, and let no man discuss
with you any question of state. Everything that is done in the palace
is known, and were you seen talking with any man who afterwards fell
under the suspicion of Nero it might cost you your lives. Remember
that, whatever may be the duties assigned to you here, we are
really assembled as a sort of special bodyguard to him; he is our
general. It is no business of ours what his private acts may be.
It may be that he is cruel to the powerful and wealthy, but on the
other hand he spends his money lavishly on the people of Rome, and
is beloved by them. If they as Romans do not resent his acts towards
senators and patricians it is no business of ours, strangers and
foreigners here, to meddle in the matter. It may be that in time,
if we do our duty well, Nero may permit us to return to Britain."

There was a murmur of approval.

"Nero may cut off the head of every man in Rome for what I care,"
Boduoc said. "I owe nothing to the Romans. They are all our enemies,
from the highest to the lowest; and if Nero is disposed to be our
friend he can do what he likes with them. But I do wish he had
given us something more to do than to hang about his palace."

Six months passed. Beric stood high in favour with Nero. Two or
three times, in order to test the vigilance of his guard, he had
sounded his bell. On each occasion an armed figure had instantly
entered his room, only to retire when he waved his hand; so that
the slave who slept at the other door found Nero alone when he
entered, and brought him a cooling drink, or performed some other
little office that served as an excuse for his summons, the emperor
being well aware how great would be the jealousy of the Praetorian
guard, were report to reach them that Caesar had guards save
themselves.

Beric often followed in the train of the emperor when he went abroad;
and as it speedily became known that he was a favourite of Nero,
his friendship was eagerly sought by those who frequented the court,
and his good offices solicited by those who had requests to make
of the emperor. Large sums of money had been sometimes offered him
for his good offices, but he steadily refused to accept any presents
whatever, or to mingle in the affairs of others, except in very
occasional cases, where it seemed to him that those who sought his
aid had been cruelly and unfairly dealt with by officials or venal
magistrates.

The sale of his jewels had brought him in a large sum of money,
which he had placed in the hands of Norbanus; and the handsome
appointments Nero had assigned to his office were very much
more than sufficient for his wants. He was always a welcome guest
at the house of Norbanus, and now that he was an official high in
favour with Nero, even Lesbia received him with marked courtesy.
The conversation always turned, when the ladies were present, upon
general topics--the gossip of society in Rome, news from the
provinces, and other similar matters, for Beric begged them not to
speak of the serious events of the day.

"I am one of Nero's guards, and I do not want to have to hate my
work, or to wish well to those from whom I am bound to protect him.
To me he is kind and friendly. At times when I am with him in the
garden or alone in his room he talks to me as an equal, of books
and art, the condition of the people, and other topics.

"It seems to me that there are two Neros: the one a man such as he
was when he ascended the throne--gentle; inclined to clemency;
desirous of the good of his people, and of popularity; a lover of
beautiful things; passionately devoted to art in all its branches;
taking far greater pleasure in the society of a few intimate friends
than in state pageants and ceremonies. There is another Nero; of
him I will not talk. I desire, above all things, not to know of
him. I believe that he has been driven to this war upon many of the
best and worthiest in Rome, by timidity. He is suspicious. Possibly
he has reason for his suspicions; possibly they are unfounded.
I do not wish to defend him. All this is a matter for you Romans,
and not for me. I wish to know nothing about it; to leave all public
matters to those they may concern; to shut my eyes and my ears as
much as I can to all that goes on around me. It is for that reason
that I go so little to other houses save this. I meet those about
the court at the baths, the gymnasium, and in the streets. But at
these places men speak not of public affairs, they know not who
may be listening; and certainly they would not speak before me.
Happily, as I am known to stand high in Caesar's favour, I am the
last person to whom they would say aught in his blame. Thus it is
that, though sometimes I come, from chance words let fall, to know
that proscriptions, accusations, confiscations, and executions take
place; that the Christians are still exposed to horrible persecutions
and tortures; that a gloom hangs over society, and that no man of
wealth and high station can regard himself as safe, it is only a
vague rumour of these things that I hear; and by keeping my ears
sealed and refusing to learn particulars, to listen to private
griefs and individual suffering, I am still able to feel that I
can do my duty to Caesar."

Norbanus and Lesbia alike agreed with Beric's reasoning; the
former, indeed, himself took but comparatively little interest in
what passed around him. The latter was, on the other hand, absorbed
in the politics of the hour. She was connected with many noble
families, and knew that a member of these might fall at any moment
under Nero's displeasure. To have a friend, then, high in the
favour of Nero was a matter of great importance; and she therefore
impressed upon all her intimates that when they found Beric at
her house they should scrupulously avoid all discussion of public
affairs.



CHAPTER XVII: BETROTHAL


Nero had, within a short time of Beric's establishment in the
palace, spoken to him of his apprehension of the increasing power
of the party who, having reverted to the opinions of the Stoic
philosophers, were ever denouncing the luxury and extravagance
of modern ways, and endeavouring, both by example and precept, to
reintroduce the simplicity and severity of former times.

"All this," Nero said angrily, "is of course but a cloak under which
to attack me. Piso and Plautus, Seneca and Lucan, do but assume
this severity of manners. They have plotted and intrigued against
me. I shall never be safe while they live."

"Caesar," Beric said gravely, "I am but a soldier, but born a free
Briton and a chief. I cannot sell my service, but must give it
loyally and heartily. You honour me with your favour and confidence;
I believe that I am worthy of it. I do not serve you for money.
Already I have begged you not to heap presents upon me. Wealth
would be useless to me did I desire it. Not only have you offered
to bestow estates upon me, but I have learned already that there are
many others who, seeing that I am favoured by you, would purchase
my friendship or my advocacy by large sums. I should despise myself
if I cared for money. You would, I know honour me not only with
your trust that I can be relied upon to do my duty as your guard,
but by treating me as one in your confidence in other matters. At
the risk, then, of exciting your displeasure and forfeiting your
favour, I must again pray you not to burden me with state matters.
Of these I know nothing, and wish to know nothing. Save that
of Seneca, I scarce know the names of the others of whom you have
spoken. I am wholly ignorant of the intrigues of court life, and I
seek to know nothing of them, and am therefore in no position to
give any opinion on these matters; and did I speak from only partial
knowledge I should do these men great wrong.

"In the next place, Caesar, I am not one who has a double face, and
if you ask my opinion of a matter in which I thought that others
had ill advised you, I should frankly say that I thought you
were wrong; and the truth is never palatable to the great. I try,
therefore, to shut my ears to everything that is going on around me,
for did I take note of rumours my loyalty to you might be shaken."

"Perhaps you are right," Nero said, after a long pause. "But tell
me, once and for all, what you do think on general matters. It is
good to have the opinion of one whom I know to be honest."

"On one subject only are my convictions strong, Caesar. I think that
the terrible persecution of the Christians is in itself horrible,
and contrary to all the traditions of Rome. These are harmless
people. They make no disturbances; they do injury to no one; they
are guilty of no act that would justify in any way the tortures
inflicted upon them. I am not a Christian, I know nothing of
their doctrines; but I am unable to understand how one naturally
clement and kind hearted as you are can give way to the clamour of
the populace against these people. As to those of whom you speak,
and others, I have no opinions; but were I Caesar, strong in the
support of the Praetorian guards, and in the affection of the people
at large, I would simply despise plotters. The people may vaguely
admire the doctrines of the Stoics, but they themselves love
pleasure and amusements and spectacles, and live upon your bounty
and generosity. There can then be nothing to fear from open force.
Should there be conspirators who would attempt to compass their
ends by assassination, you have your guards to protect you. You
have myself and my little band of countrymen ready to watch over
you unceasingly."

"No care and caution will avail against the knife of the assassin,"
Nero said gloomily. "It is only by striking down conspirators and
assassins that one can guard one's self against their weapons.
Julius Caesar was killed when surrounded by men whom he deemed his
friends."

Beric could not deny the truth of Nero's words. "That is true,
Caesar, and therefore I do not presume to criticise or even to have
an opinion upon acts of state policy. These are matters utterly
beyond me. I know nothing of the history of the families of Rome.
I know not who may, with or without reason, deem that they have
cause of complaint against you, or who may be hostile to you either
from private grievances or personal ambitions, and knowing nothing
I wish to know nothing. I desire, as I said when you first spoke to
me, to be regarded as a watchdog, to be attached to you by personal
kindness, and to guard you night and day against conspirators and
assassins. I beseech you not to expect more from me, or to deem it
possible that a Briton can be qualified to give any opinion whatever
as to a matter so alien to him as the intrigues and conspiracies
of an imperial city. Did I agree with you, you would soon doubt my
honesty; did I differ from you, I should incur your displeasure."

Nero looked up at the frank countenance of the young Briton.

"Enough," he said smiling, "you shall be my watchdog and nothing
more."

As time went on Nero's confidence in his British guard steadily
increased. He had his spies, and knew how entirely Beric kept himself
aloof from intimate acquaintanceship with any save the family of
Norbanus, and learned, too, that he had refused many large bribes
from suitors. For a time, although he knew it not, Beric was
constantly watched. His footsteps were followed when he went abroad,
his conversations with others in the baths, which formed the great
centres of meeting, and stood to the Romans in the place of modern
clubs, were listened to and noted. It was observed that he seldom
went to convivial gatherings, and that at any place when the
conversation turned on public affairs he speedily withdrew; that
he avoided all display of wealth, dressed as quietly as it was
possible for one in the court circle to do, and bore himself as
simply as when he had been training in the ludus of Scopus. There
he still went very frequently, practising constantly in arms with
his former companions, preferring this to the more formal exercises
of the gymnasium. Thus, after a time, Nero became confirmed in his
opinion of Beric's straightforward honesty, and felt that there
was no fear of his being tampered with by his enemies.

One result of this increased confidence was that Beric's hours
of leisure became much restricted, for Nero came to require his
attendance whenever he appeared in public. With Beric and Boduoc
among the group of courtiers that followed him, the emperor felt
assured there was no occasion to fear the knife of the assassin;
and it was only when he was at the baths, where only his most chosen
friends were admitted, or during the long carousals that followed
the suppers, that Beric was at liberty, and in the latter case
Boduoc was always near at hand in case of need.

Nero's precautions were redoubled after the detection of the
conspiracy of Piso. That this plot was a real one, and not a mere
invention of Nero to justify his designs upon those he hated and
feared, is undoubted. The hour for the attempt at assassination had
been fixed, the chief actor was prepared and the knife sharpened.
But the executions that followed embraced many who had no knowledge
whatever of the plot. Seneca was among the victims against whom
there was no shadow of proof.

After the discovery of this plot Beric found his position more
and more irksome in spite of the favour Nero showed him. Do what
he would he could not close his ears to what was public talk in
Rome. The fabulous extravagances of Nero, the public and unbounded
profligacy of himself and his court, the open defiance of decency,
the stupendous waste of public money on the new and most sumptuous
palace into which he had now removed, were matters that scandalized
even the population of Rome. Senators, patricians, grave councillors,
noble matrons were alike willingly or unwillingly obliged to join
in the saturnalia that prevailed. The provinces were ruined to
minister to the luxury of Rome. The wealth of the noblest families
was sequestrated to the state. All law, order, and decency were
set at defiance.

To the Britons, simple in their tastes and habits, this profusion
of luxury, this universal profligacy seemed absolutely monstrous.
When they met together and talked of their former life in their
rude huts, it seemed that the vengeance of the gods must surely
fall upon a people who seemed to have lost all sense of virtue,
all respect for things human and divine. To Beric the only bearable
portions of his existence were the mornings he spent in reading,
and in the study of Greek with Chiton, and in the house of Norbanus.
Of Lesbia he saw little. She spent her life in a whirl of dissipation
and gaiety, accompanying members of her family to all the fetes in
defiance of the wishes of Norbanus, whose authority in this matter
she absolutely set at naught.

"The emperor's invitations override the authority of one who makes
himself absurd by his presumption of philosophy. I live as do
other Roman ladies of good family. Divorce me if you like; I have
the fortune I brought you, and should prefer vastly to go my own
way."

This step Norbanus would have taken but for the sake of Aemilia. By
his orders the latter never went abroad with her mother or attended
any of the public entertainments, but lived in the quiet society
of the personal friends of Norbanus. Lesbia had yielded the point,
for she did not care to be accompanied by a daughter of marriageable
age, as by dint of cosmetics and paint she posed as still a young
woman. Aemilia had long since recovered her spirits, and was again
the merry girl Beric had known at Massilia.

One day when Beric called he saw that Norbanus, who was seldom put
out by any passing circumstance, was disturbed in mind.

"I am troubled indeed," he said, in answer to Beric's inquiry.
"Lesbia has been proposing to me the marriage of Rufinus Sulla, a
connection of hers, and, as you know, one of Nero's intimates, with
Aemilia."

Beric uttered an exclamation of anger.

"He is one of the worst of profligates," he exclaimed. "I would slay
him with my own hand rather than that Aemilia should be sacrificed
to him."

"And I would slay her first," Norbanus said calmly; "but, as Lesbia
threatened when I indignantly refused the proposal, Rufinus has
but to ask Nero's approval, and before his orders my authority as
a father goes for nothing. I see but one way. It has seemed to me
for a long time, Beric, that you yourself felt more warmly towards
Aemilia than a mere friend. Putting aside our obligations to you
for having risked your life in defence of Ennia, there is no one
to whom I would more willingly give her. Have I been mistaken in
your thoughts of her?"

"By no means," Beric said. "I love your daughter Aemilia, but I
have never spoken of it to you for two reasons. In the first place
I shall not be for some years of the age at which we Britons marry,
and in the second I am but a captive. At present I stand high in
the favour of Nero, but that favour may fail me at any day, and
my life at the palace is becoming unbearable; but besides, it is
impossible that this orgy of crime and debauchery can continue. The
vengeance of heaven cannot be much longer delayed. The legions in
the provinces are utterly discontented and well nigh mutinous, and
even if Rome continues to support Nero the time cannot be far off
when the legions proclaim either Galba, or Vespasian, or some other
general, as emperor, and then the downfall of Nero must come. How
then could I ask you for the hand of Aemilia, a maiden of noble
family, when the future is all so dark and troubled and my own lot
so uncertain?

"I cannot raise my sword against Caesar, for, however foul his
crimes, he has treated me well. Had it not been for that I would
have made for Praeneste, when the gladiators rose there the other
day, and for the same reason I can do nothing to prepare the way
for a rising here. I know the ludus of Scopus would join to a man.
There is great discontent among the other schools, for the people
have become so accustomed to bloodshed that they seem steeled to
all pity, and invariably give the signal for the despatch of the
conquered. As to your offer, Norbanus, I thank you with all my
heart; but were it not for this danger that threatens from Rufinus,
I would say that at the present time I dare not link her lot to
mine. The danger is too great, the future too dark. It seems to
me that the city and all in it are seized with madness, and above
all, at the present time, I would not for worlds take her to the
palace of Nero. But if Aemilia will consent to a betrothal to me,
putting off the period of marriage until the times are changed,
I will, with delight, accept the offer of her hand, if she too is
willing, for in Briton, as in Gaul, our maidens have a voice in
their own disposal."

Norbanus smiled. "Methinks, Beric, you need not fear on that score.
Since the day when you fought the lion in the arena you have been
her hero and the lord of her heart. Even I, although but short
sighted as to matters unconnected with my work, could mark that,
and I believe it is because her mother sees and fears it that she
has determined to marry her to Rufinus. I will call her down to
find out whether she is ready to obey my wishes."

In a minute or two Aemilia came down from the women's apartments
above.

"My child," Norbanus said, "I have offered you in marriage to
Beric. He has accepted, saving only that you must come to him not
in obedience to my orders but of your own free will, since it is
the custom of his country that both parties should be equally free
of choice. What do you say, my child?"

Aemilia had flushed with a sudden glow of colour as her father
began, and stood with downcast eyes until he had finished.

"One moment before you decide, Aemilia," Beric said. "You know how
I am situated, and that at any moment I may be involved in peril
or death; that life with me can scarcely be one of ease or luxury,
and that even at the best you may be an exile for ever from Rome."

She looked up now. "I love you, Beric," she said. "I would rather
live in a cottage with you for my lord and master than in a palace
with any other. I would die with you were there need. Your wishes
shall always be my law."

"That is not the way in Britain," Beric said, as he drew her to
him and kissed her. "The husband is not the lord of his wife, they
are friends and equals, and such will we be. There is honour and
respect on both sides."

"It will be but your betrothal at present," Norbanus said. "Neither
Beric nor I would like to see you in the palace of Caesar; but the
sponsalia shall take place today, and then he can claim you when
he will. Come again this evening, Beric. I will have the conditions
drawn up, and some friends shall be here to witness the form of
betrothal. This haste, child, is in order to give Beric power to
protect you. Were you free, Rufinus might obtain an order from Nero
for me to give you to him, but once the conditions are signed they
cannot be broken save by your mutual consent; and moreover, Beric
can use his influence with the emperor on behalf of his betrothed
wife, while so long as you remain under my authority he could
scarcely interfere did Nero give his promise to Rufinus."

"Will my mother be here?"

"She will not, nor do I desire her presence," Norbanus said decidedly.
"She has defied my authority and has gone her own path, and it is
only for your sake that I have not divorced her. She comes and she
goes as she chooses, but her home is with her family, not here. She
has no right by law to a voice in your marriage. You are under my
authority and mine alone. It is but right that a good mother should
have an influence and a voice as to her daughter's marriage; but
a woman who frequents the saturnalia of Nero has forfeited her
mother's rights. It will be time enough for her to hear of it when
it is too late for her to cause trouble. Now do you two go into
the garden together, for I have arrangements to make."

At six o'clock Beric returned to the house. In the atrium were
gathered a number of guests; some were members of the family of
Norbanus, others were his colleagues in office--all were men of
standing and family. Beric was already known to most of them, having
met them at suppers at the house. When all were assembled Norbanus
left the room, and presently returned leading Aemilia by the hand.

"My friends," he said, "you already know why you are assembled here,
namely to be witnesses to the betrothal of my daughter to Beric the
Briton. Vitrio, the notary, will read the conditions under which
they are betrothed."

The document was a formal one, and stated that Norbanus gave up
his potestas or authority over his daughter Aemilia to Beric, and
that he bound himself to complete the further ceremony of marriage
either by the religious or civil form as Beric might select whenever
the latter should demand it, and that further he agreed to give
her on her marriage the sum of three thousand denarii, and to leave
the whole of his property to her at his death; while Beric on his
part bound himself to complete the ceremonies of marriage whenever
called upon by Norbanus to do so, and to pay him at the present
time one thousand denarii on the consideration of his signing the
present agreement, and on his delivering up to him his authority
over his daughter.

"You have heard this document read, Norbanus," the notary said,
when he had concluded the reading. "Do you assent to it? And are
you ready to affix your signature to the contract?"

"I am ready," Norbanus said.

"And you, Beric?"

"I am also ready," Beric replied.

"Then do you both write your signatures here."

Both signed, and four of the guests affixed their signatures as
witnesses. Norbanus then placed Aemilia's hand in Beric's. "You are
now betrothed man and wife," he said. "I transfer to you, Beric,
my authority over my daughter; henceforth she is your property to
claim as you will."

A minute later there was a sudden movement at the door, and Lesbia
entered in haste. "News has just been brought to me of your intention,
Norbanus, and I am here to say that I will not permit this betrothal."

"You have no voice or authority in the matter," Norbanus said
calmly. "Legal right to interfere you never had. Your moral right
you have forfeited. The conditions have been signed. Aemilia is
betrothed to Beric."

Lesbia broke out into passionate reproaches and threats, but Norbanus
advanced a step or two towards her, and said with quiet dignity,
"I have borne with you for her sake, Lesbia. Now that she belongs
to Beric and not to me, I need not restrain my just indignation
longer. I return your property to your hands."

Lesbia stepped back as if struck. The words were the well known
formula by which a Roman divorced his wife. She had not dreamed
that Norbanus would summon up resolution to put this disgrace upon
her, and to bring upon himself the hostility of her family. Her
pride quickly came to her aid.

"Thanks for the release," she said sarcastically; "far too much
of my life has already been wasted on a dotard, and my family will
see that the restitution of my property is full and complete: but
beware, Norbanus, I am not to be outraged with impunity, and you
will learn to your cost that a woman of my family knows how to
revenge herself."

Then turning she passed out of the door, entered her lectica and
was carried away.

"I must apologize to you, my friends," Norbanus said calmly, "for
having brought you to be present at an unpleasant family scene, but
I had not expected it, and know not through whom Lesbia obtained
the news of what was doing here. I suppose one of the slaves carried
it to her. But these things trouble not a philosopher; for myself
I marvel at my long patience, and feel rejoiced that at last I
shall be free to live my own life."

"You have done well, Norbanus," one of his colleagues said, "though
I know not what Nero will say when he hears of it, for severity
among husbands is not popular at present in Rome."

"I can open my veins as Seneca did," Norbanus said calmly; "neither
death nor exile have any terrors for me. Rome has gone mad, and
life for a reasoning being is worthless here."

"I shall represent the matter to Nero," Beric said, "and as it is
seldom that I ask aught of him, I doubt not he will listen to me.
When he is not personally concerned, Nero desires to act justly,
and moreover, I think that he can weigh the advantages of the
friendship of a faithful guard against that of his boon companions.
I will speak to him the first thing in the morning. He frequently
comes into the library and reads for an hour. At any rate there is
no chance of Lesbia being beforehand with me. It is too late for
her to see Rufinus and get him to approach Nero tonight."

"Let us talk of other matters," Norbanus said, "all these things
are but transitory." He then began to talk on his favourite topic
--the religions of the world, while Beric drew Aemilia, who had
been weeping since the scene between her parents, into the tablinum.

"It is unlucky to weep on the day of your betrothal, Aemilia."

"Who could help it, Beric? Besides, as it is not for my own troubles
the omen will have no avail. But it is all so strange and so rapid.
This morning I was in trouble, alarmed at what my mother told me
of her intentions, fearful that my father, who has so long yielded
to her, would permit her to have her own way in this also. Then
came the great joy when he told me that he would give me to you
--that you, who of all men I thought most of, was henceforth to
be my lord. Then, just when my happiness was complete, and I was
formally bound to you, came my mother. Ennia and I always loved our
father most, he was ever thoughtful and kind to us, while even as
children our mother did not care for us. As we grew up she cared still
less, thinking only of her own pleasures and friends, and leaving
us almost wholly in charge of the slaves; but it was not until
Ennia was seized as a Christian that I knew how little she loved
us. Then she raved and stormed, lamented and wept, not because of
the fate of Ennia, not because of the terrible death that awaited
her, but because of the disgrace it brought upon herself. Even after
she was brought here she scarce came in to see her, and loudly said
that it would be best for her to die. Lately, as you know, I have
seen little of her; she spends all her time abroad, has defied my
father's authority; and brought grief and trouble upon him. Still,
to a daughter it is terrible that her mother should be divorced."

"Let us not think of it now, Aemilia. Your father has acted, as he
always does, rightly and well. I know much more of what is going
on than you do, and I can tell you that Lesbia, who was so jealous
of the honour of her name when Ennia was concerned, is bringing
far greater dishonour upon her name by her own actions. And now let
us talk of ourselves. The act you have just done, dear, may bring
all sorts of sacrifices upon you. At any moment I may be a fugitive,
and, as you know, the families of those who incur Nero's wrath
share in their disgrace; and if I am forced to fly, you too may be
obliged to become a fugitive."

She looked up brightly. "I shall not mind any hardships I suffer
for your sake, Beric. Rome is hateful to me since Ennia stood in
the arena. I would rather share a hut with you among the savage
mountains of the north than a palace here."

"I trust that trouble is still far distant, but I shall, as soon as
I can, find a retreat where, in case I fall under Nero's displeasure,
you can lie hid until I can send for you."

"I have such a retreat, Beric. Since Ennia's death I have seen a
good deal of the Christians. Lycoris, you know, was captured at the
same time as Ennia, and was put to death by fire; but her daughter,
married to a freedman who had purchased her liberty from my father,
managed to escape with her husband when the place was surrounded.
I have met her several times since. She and her husband are living
hidden in the catacombs, where she tells me many of their sect have
taken refuge from the persecutions.

"The last time I saw her she said to me, 'No one's life is safe
in this terrible city, and none, however high in station, can say
that they may not require refuge. Should you need an asylum, Aemilia,
go to the house of a freedman, one Mincius, living in the third
house on the right of a street known as the Narrow one, close behind
the amphitheatre at the foot of the Palatine Hill, and knock thrice
at the door. When they open, say, 'In the name of Christ,' then
they will take you in. Tell them that you desire to see me, and
that you are the sister of Ennia, the daughter of Norbanus, and
they will lead you to us. There is an entrance to the catacombs
under the house. As the sister of Ennia you will be warmly received
by all there, even although you yourself may not belong to us. The
galleries and passages are of a vast extent and known only to us.
There is no fear of pursuit there.'"

"That is good news, Aemilia; it is sad that, but an hour betrothed,
we are forced to think of refuges, but it will be happiness to me
to know that if danger threatens, you have a place of retreat. You
see this ring; Nero himself gave it me; mark it well, so that you
may know it again. It is a figure of Mercury carved on an amethyst.
When you receive it, by night or day, tarry not a moment, but wrap
yourself in a sombre mantle like that of a slave, and hie you to
this refuge you speak of; but first see your father, tell him where
you are going and why, so that he may fly too, if he choose."

"He will not do that," Aemilia said, "and how can I leave him?"

"You must leave him because you belong to me, Aemilia, and because
you are acting on my orders. The danger to you is far greater than
to him. You are my wife, he only my father in law, and they would
strike at me first through you. Besides, there are other reasons.
Your father is a Roman of the old type, and like Seneca and Plautus,
and others of the same school, will deem it no loss when the time
comes to quit life. However, you will tell him of the danger, and
he must make his own choice. I shall beg him to hand to you at once
the money which I placed in his care now a year ago. Do you hand
it over to the woman you speak of, and ask her to hide it away in
the caves till you ask for it again; these Christians are to be
trusted. I have much money besides, for Nero is lavishly generous,
and it would anger him to refuse his bounty. This money I have
placed in several hands, some in Rome, some elsewhere, so that if
forced to fly I can at any rate obtain some of my store without
having to run into danger."

"One more question, Beric. Should I ever have to take refuge among
the Christians, and like Ennia come to love their doctrines, would
you be angered if I joined their sect? If you would I will not
listen to them, but will tell them that I cannot talk or think of
these things without my husband's consent."

"You are free to do as you like, Aemilia. Since Ennia died I have
resolved upon the first opportunity to study the doctrines of these
people, for truly it must be a wonderful religion that enables
those who profess it to meet a cruel death not only without fear
but with joy. You know Ennia said we should meet again, and I think
she meant that I, too, should become a Christian. Ask the woman if
I also, as a last resource, may take refuge among them."

"I will ask her, Beric; but I am sure they will gladly receive you.
Have you not already risked your life to save a Christian?"

The other guests having now left, Norbanus joined them, and Beric
told him of the arrangements they had made in case of danger. He
warmly approved of them.

"It will be a relief to me as to you, Beric, to know that Aemilia's
safety is provided for. As for myself, fate has no terrors for me;
but for you and her it is different. She is yours now, for although
but betrothed she is virtually your wife. You have but to take her
by the hand and to declare her your wife in the presence of witnesses,
and all is done. There is, it is true, a religious ceremony in use
only among the wealthier classes, but this is rather an occasion
for pomp and feasting, and is by no means needful, especially as
you have no faith in the Roman gods. What are the rites among your
own people, Beric?"

"We simply take a woman by the hand and declare her our wife. Then
there is feasting, and the bride is carried home, and there is the
semblance of a fight, the members of her family making a show of
preventing us; but this is no part of the actual rite, which is
merely public assent on both sides. And now I must be going. Nero
will be feasting for a long time yet; but Boduoc has been on guard
for many hours and I must relieve him. Farewell, Norbanus; we have
been preparing for the worst, but I trust we shall escape misfortune.
Farewell, my Aemilia!" and kissing her tenderly Beric strode away
to the palace of Nero.

He had not seen Boduoc since early morning, and the latter, standing
on guard outside the private entrance to Nero's apartments, greeted
his arrival, "Why, Beric, I began to fear that some harm had befallen
you. I came in this morning after the bath and found you had gone
out. I returned again at six and found your chamber again empty,
but saw that you had returned during my absence; I went on guard,
and here have I been for four hours listening to all that foolish
singing and laughter inside. How Caesar, who has the world at his
command, can spend his time with actors and buffoons, is more than
I can understand. But what has kept you?"

As there was no fear of his voice being heard through the heavy
hangings, Beric, to Boduoc's intense surprise, related the events
of the day.

"So you have married a Roman girl, Beric! Well, I suspected what
would come of it when you spent half your time at the house of
Norbanus. I would rather that you had married one of our own maidens;
but as I see no chance of our return to Britain for years, if ever,
one could hardly expect you to wait for that. At any rate she is
the best of the Roman maidens I have seen. She neither dyes her
hair nor paints her face, and although she lacks stature, she is
comely, and is always bright and pleasant when I have accompanied
you there. I am inclined to feel half jealous that you have another
to love you besides myself, but I will try and not grudge her a
share of your affection."

"Well, hand me your sword, Boduoc, and betake yourself to your
bed. I will remain on guard for the next four hours, or until the
feasting is over. Nero often opens the hangings the last thing to
see if we are watchful, and he likes to see me at my post. I wish
to find him in a good temper in the morning."

The next morning, to Beric's satisfaction, Nero came into the
library early. Chiton, as was his custom, retired at once.

"I was inspired last night, Beric," the emperor said. "Listen to
these verses I composed at the table;" and he recited some stanzas
in praise of wine.

"I am no great judge of these matters, Caesar," Beric said; "but
they seem to me to be admirable indeed. How could it be otherwise,
when even the Greeks awarded you the crown for your recitations at
their contests? Yesterday was a fortunate day for me, also, Caesar,
for Norbanus betrothed his daughter to me."

The emperor's face clouded, and Beric hastened to say:

"There is no talk of marriage at present, Caesar, for marriage
would interfere with my duties to you. Therefore it is only when
you have no longer an occasion for my services that the betrothal
will be converted into marriage. My first duty is to you, and I
shall allow nothing to interfere with that."

Nero's face cleared. "That is right," he said graciously. "You might
have married better, seeing that you enjoy my favour; but perhaps
it is as well as it is. Norbanus is a worthy man and a good official,
although his ideas are old fashioned; but it is reported of him
that he thinks of nothing but his work, and mixes himself up in no
way in politics, living the life almost of a recluse. It was one of
his daughters you championed in the arena. She died soon afterwards,
I heard. Has he other children?"

"Only the maiden I am betrothed to, Caesar. He is now alone, for
his wife has long been altogether separated from him, being devoted
to gaiety and belonging to a family richer and more powerful than
his, and looking down upon her husband as a mere bookworm. He has
borne with her neglect and disobedience to his wishes for a long
time, and has shown, as it seemed to me, far too great a weakness
in exerting his authority; but his patience has at last failed,
and when yesterday, in defiance of him, she would have interfered
to prevent my betrothal to his daughter, he divorced her."

"Divorce is the fashion," Nero said carelessly. "I know his wife
Lesbia, she has frequently been present with members of her family
at my entertainments. She is a fine woman, and I wonder not that
she and the recluse her husband did not get on well together. She
will soon be consoled."

"I have mentioned it to you, Caesar, because she is a revengeful
woman, and might cause rumours unfavourable to her husband to be
reported to you. He is the most simple and single minded of men,
and his thoughts are entirely occupied, as you say, with the duties
of his office and with the learned book upon which he has long been
engaged; but although a philosopher in his habits he holds aloof
from all parties, and even in his own family never discusses
public affairs. Had it been otherwise, you may be sure that I, your
majesty's attendant and guard, should have abstained from visiting
his house."

"I know this to be the case, Beric. Naturally, when I first placed
you near my person, I was interested in knowing who were your
intimates, and caused strict inquiries to be made as to the household
of Norbanus and his associates; all that I heard was favourable to
him, and convinced me that he was in no way a dangerous person."

Nero left the room, and returned shortly bearing a casket. "Give
these jewels to your betrothed, Beric, as a present from Caesar to
the wife of his faithful guard."

Beric thanked the emperor in becoming terms, and in the afternoon
carried the jewels, which were of great value, to Aemilia.

"They are a fortune in themselves," he said; "in case of danger,
take them from the casket and conceal them in your garments. No
one could have been more cordial than Nero was this morning; but
he is fickle as the wind, and when Rufinus and others of his boon
companions obtain his ear his mood may change altogether."



CHAPTER XVIII: THE OUTBREAK


It was not long, indeed, before Beric found that hostile influences
were at work. Nero was not less friendly in his manner, but he more
than once spoke to him about Aemilia.

"I hear," he said one day, "that your betrothed is very beautiful
Beric."

"She is very fair, Caesar," Beric replied coldly.

"I know not how it is that I have not seen her at court," Nero
continued.

"Her tastes are like those of her father," Beric said. "She goes but
seldom abroad, and has long had the principal care of her father's
household."

"But you should bring her now," Nero persisted. "The wife of one of
the officials of the palace should have a place at our entertainments."

"She is not at present my wife, Caesar, she is but my betrothed; and
as you have yourself excused me from attendance at all entertainments,
it would be unseemly for her, a Roman maiden, though betrothed to
me, to appear there."

"There are plenty of other Roman maidens who appear there," Nero
said pettishly. Beric made no reply, and the subject was not again
alluded to at that time; but the emperor returned to it on other
occasions, and Beric at last was driven to refuse point blank.

"I am your majesty's guard," he said. "I watch you at night as well
as by day, and, as I have told your majesty, I cannot perform my
duties properly if I have to be present at your entertainments. I
should not permit my wife or my betrothed to be present in public
unless I were by her side. Your majesty took me for what I was, a
simple Briton, who could be relied upon as a guard, because I had
neither friends nor family in Rome, and was content to live a simple
and quiet life. I am willing to abstain from marriage in order that
I may still do my service as heretofore; but if I have to attend
entertainments, you cannot rely upon my constant vigilance. It is
for you to choose, Caesar, whether you most require vigilant guards,
who could be trusted as standing aloof from all, or the addition
of two persons to the crowds you entertain. I am sure, Caesar," he
went on as the emperor made no reply, "it is not yourself who is
now speaking to me; it is Rufinus, formerly a suitor for the hand
of the daughter of Norbanus, who has been whispering into your ear
and abusing the favour you show him. He dare not show his animosity
to me openly, for one who has conquered a lion would make but short
work of him. Your majesty, I pray you, let not the word of men like
this come between yourself and one you know to be faithful to you."

"You are right, Beric," Nero said. "I will press you no farther;
it was but a passing thought. I had heard of the beauty of your
betrothed, and though I would see if she were as fair as report
makes her; but since you do not wish it to be so, it shall not be
spoken of again."

But Beric knew enough of Nero to be aware that, like most weak
men, he was obstinate, and that Rufinus and his friends would not
allow the matter to drop. Every preparation was therefore made for
sudden flight. Aemilia was warned on no account to trust any message
she might receive purporting to be from him, and the Britons in the
palace, who were heartily sick of their monotonous duty, were told
to hold themselves in readiness for action. Beric knew that he could
depend on the slave who had been assigned to him as an attendant.
He was not the man who had at first served him, and who, as Beric
doubted not, had acted as a spy upon him. When it was found that
there was nothing to discover this man had been removed for other
work, and a slave boy of some seventeen years old had taken his
place. To him Beric had behaved with great kindness, and the lad
was deeply attached to him. He had several times taken notes and
messages to the house of Norbanus, and Beric told Aemilia that
when it became necessary to send her the ring, he should probably
intrust it to him.

A week later Boduoc was on guard at ten in the evening. In the distant
banqueting hall he could hear sounds of laughter and revelry, and
knowing the nature of these feasts he muttered angrily to himself
that he, a Briton, should be standing there while such things
were being done within. Suddenly he heard a step approaching the
hangings. They were drawn back, and one of the court attendants
said, "Caesar requires the attendance of Beric the Briton in the
banqueting hall."

"I will tell him," Boduoc said. "He will come directly." Beric was
sitting reading when Boduoc entered and gave the message.

"This means mischief, Boduoc," he said. "I have never been sent
for before to one of these foul carousals. Philo, come hither!"

The lad, who was lying on a mat by the door, rose. "Philo, take
this ring. Follow me to the door of the banqueting room, and stand
behind the hangings. If I say 'Run, Philo!' carry out the orders
that I have before given you. Speed first to the room where the
Britons sleep, and tell them to arm and come up by the private
stairs to my room instantly. They know the way. They are then to
pass on through the passage and the next room and wait behind the
hangings, when Boduoc will give them orders. Directly you have
given my message speed to the house of Norbanus, and demand in my
name to see the lady Aemilia. If she has retired to her room she
must be roused. If the slaves make difficulty, appeal to Norbanus
himself. He will fetch her down to you. Give her this ring, and
say the time has come."

"I will do it, my lord. Where am I to join you afterwards?"

"I shall take the road to the Alban Hills first; I think that if
you are speedy, you may be on the Alban road before me. Now follow
me. Boduoc, do you come as far as the hangings of the banqueting
room, and stand there with Philo. You will be able to hear what
passes within. Do not enter unless I call you. Bring my sword with
you."

Beric passed through two or three large apartments and then entered
the banqueting room. It was ablaze with lights. A dozen men and as
many women, in the scantiest costumes, lay on couches along each
side of the table. All were crowned with chaplets of flowers, and
were half covered with roses, of which showers had fallen from
above upon them. Nero lay on a couch at the end of the table; his
features were flushed with wine. Beric repressed the exclamation
of indignant disgust that rose to his lips, and walking calmly up
to Nero said coldly, "I am told that you want me, Caesar."

"I do, my fighter of lions," Nero said unsteadily. "I would see
this paragon of whom Rufinus tells me, whom you guard so jealously
from my eyes. Send and fetch her hither. She will be a worthy queen
of our revels."

"It is an honour to me to obey your majesty's commands in all matters
that regard myself," Beric said; "but in regard to my promised
wife, no! This is no place for a Roman lady; and even at the risk
of your displeasure, Caesar, I refuse to dishonour her by bringing
her into such an assembly."

"I told you he would refuse, Caesar," Rufinus, who was lying on
the couch next to Nero, laughed.

Nero was speechless with surprise and anger at Beric's calm refusal
to obey his orders. "Do I understand," he said at last, "that you
refuse to obey me?"

"I do, Caesar. It is not a lawful command, and I distinctly refuse
to obey it."

"Then, by the gods, your life is forfeit!" Nero said, rising to
his feet.

"You may thank your gods, Caesar, that I have more sense of honour
than you. Were it otherwise, I would strike you dead at my feet.
But a British chief disdains to fight an unarmed foe, and I who have
eaten your bread and taken your wages am doubly bound not to lift
my hand against you." Then he lifted his voice and cried, "Run,
Philo!"

The revellers by this time had all started to their feet. Nero,
shrinking backwards behind them, called loudly for help. Rufinus,
who had shown bravery in the wars, drew a dagger from beneath his
toga and sprang at Beric. The latter caught his uplifted wrist, and
with a sharp wrench forced him to drop the weapon; then he seized
him in his grasp. "You shall do no more mischief, Rufinus," he
said, and raising him in his arms hurled him with tremendous force
against a marble pillar, where he fell inert and lifeless, his
skull being completely beaten in by the blow.

The hall rang with the shrieks of women and the shouts of men.
There was a sound of heavy footsteps, and eight of the Praetorian
guards, with drawn swords, ran in on the other side of the chamber.
"Boduoc!" Beric shouted; and in a moment his follower stood beside
him and handed him his sword and buckler.

"Kill him!" Nero shouted frantically. "The traitor would have slain
me."

Beric and Boduoc stepped back to the door by which they had
entered, and awaited the onset of the Praetorians. For a moment
these hesitated, for Beric's figure was well known in the palace,
and not one of them but had heard of his encounter with the lion.
The emperor's shouts, however, overcame their reluctance, and
shoulder to shoulder they rushed forward to the attack. Two fell
instantly, helmet and head cloven by the swords of the Britons,
who at once took the offensive and drove the others before them,
slaying three more and putting the others to flight. But the success
was temporary, for now a great body of the guard poured into the
room.

"Step back through the doorway, Boduoc," Beric said; "their numbers
will not avail them then."

The doors were ten feet in width. This gave room to but three men
to enter at once and use their arms to advantage, and for two or
three minutes the Britons kept the Praetorians at bay, eight of
them having fallen beneath their blows; then there was a shout,
and the Roman soldiers came running in at a door at the end of the
chamber. "Fall back to the next door," Beric said; but as he spoke
there was a rush behind, and nineteen Britons ran into the room,
and uttering the war cry of the Iceni flung themselves upon the
Roman soldiers. These, taken by surprise at the sudden appearance
of these tall warriors, and ignorant of what further reinforcements
might be coming up, gave ground, and were speedily beaten back, a
score of them falling beneath the Britons' swords.

"Now retreat!" Beric cried as the room was cleared; "retreat at
full speed. Show them the way, Boduoc, by the staircase down into
the garden. Quick! there is not a moment to lose. I will guard the
rear."

They ran down the passage, through Beric's room, down a long
corridor, and then by stairs leading thence into the garden, which
was indeed a park of considerable size, with lakes, shrubberies,
and winding walks. The uproar in the palace was no longer heard by
the time they were halfway across the park; but they ran at full
speed until they reached a door in the wall. Of this Beric had
some time before obtained a key from the head gardener, and always
carried this about with him. As they stopped they looked back
towards the palace. Distant shouts could be heard, and the lights
of numbers of torches could be seen spreading out in all directions.

Beric opened the door and locked it behind him when all had passed
out. "Now," he said to his companions, "make your way down to the
road leading out to the Alban Hills. Break up and go singly, so
that you may not be noticed. It will be a good half hour before the
news of what has occurred is known beyond the palace. Do not pass
through the frequented streets, but move along the dark lanes as
much as possible. When half a mile beyond the city we will reunite."

An hour later the whole party were gathered beyond the city. All
were delighted to escape from what they considered slavery, and
the fact that they had again bucklers on their arms and swords by
their sides made them feel as if their freedom were already obtained.

"This puts one in mind of old times," Boduoc said joyously; "one
might think we were about to start on an expedition in the fens.
Well, they have taught us all somewhat more than we knew before,
and we will show them that the air of Rome has robbed us of none
of our strength. Where go we now, Beric?"

"First to the ludus of Scopus; I learned a week since that he had
taken his band out again to the Alban Hills for the hot season. I
believe that most of his men will join us, if not all. As soon as
the news is spread that we are in arms we could, if we wished it,
be joined by scores of gladiators from the other schools. There are
hundreds who would, if the standard of revolt were raised, prefer
dying fighting in the open to being slain to gratify a Roman mob."

"Ay, that there are," put in another of the band. "I have never
ceased to lament that I did not fall that day on our island in the
fens."

"Think you there will be pursuit, Beric?" another asked.

"No; the first thought of Nero will be to assemble all the
Praetorians for his protection; they will search the palace and
the park, expecting attack rather than thinking of pursuit. In the
morning, when they find that all is quiet, and that it is indeed
only us with whom there is trouble, they will doubtless send parties
of searchers over the country; but long before that we shall be a
day's march ahead. My wish is to gain the mountains. I do not want
to head a great rebellion against Rome--disaster would surely
come of it at last, and I should have only led men to their death.
A hundred men is the outside number I will take. With that number
we may live as outlaws among the mountains to the south; we could
move so rapidly that large forces could not follow us, and be
strong enough to repulse small ones. There is plenty of game among
the hills, and we should live as we did at home, chiefly by hunting."

Just as they were approaching the hills a quick step was heard
behind them, and the lad Philo ran up.

"Ah, you have overtaken us, Philo! 'tis well, lad, for your life
would have been forfeited had you stayed in Rome.

"Well," he asked, drawing him aside, "you saw the lady Aemilia.
What said she?"

"She said, 'Tell my lord that I obey, but that I pray him to let
me join him and share his dangers if it be possible; but be it
tomorrow or five years hence, he will find me waiting for him at
the place he knows of.' Norbanus was present when she spoke. I told
him what I had heard in the banqueting room, and he said 'Beric
has done rightly. Tell him that he has acted as a Roman should do,
but as Romans no longer act, caring less for their honour than do
the meanest slaves, and that I thank him for having thus defended
my daughter against indignity.' He was glad, he said, that his life
would end now, for it was a burden to him under such conditions.
He gave me this bag of gold to bring to you, saying that he should
have no farther need for it, and that, leaving in such haste, you
would not have time to furnish yourself with money. It is heavy,"
the boy said. "I should have caught you some time earlier, but
twenty or more pounds' weight makes a deal of difference in a long
run."

On arriving at the house of Scopus Beric bade the others wait
without, and stepping over the slaves lying at the entrance, he
went quietly to the sleeping chamber of the lanista.

"Who is this?" Scopus asked as he entered.

"It is I, Beric; throw your mantle on and come outside with me,
Scopus. I would speak with you alone, and do not wish that all
should know that I have been here."

"In trouble?" Scopus asked as they left the house. "Ay, lad, I
expected it, and knew that sooner or later it would come. What is
it?"

"Nero ordered me to fetch Aemilia to his foul carousal. I refused.
Rufinus, at whose instigation he acted, attacked me. I hurled him
against a pillar, and methinks he was killed, and then Nero, in alarm
for his life, called in the Praetorians. Boduoc and my countrymen
joined me, and we slew some thirty of them, and then made our
escape, and are taking to the mountains."

"And you have come to ask my gladiators to join?" Scopus said
shortly.

"No," Beric replied; "when I started I thought of so doing, but as
I walked hither I decided otherwise. It would not be fair to you.
Did I ask them some would join, I know, others might not. The loss
of their services I could make up to you; but if it were known that
we had been here, and that some of your band had joined me, Nero's
vengeance would fall on you all."

"I thank you, Beric; if some went I must go myself, for I dare not
remain, and though I wish you well, and hate the tyrant, I am well
off and comfortable, and have no desire to throw away my life."

"There is one I should like to take with me--Porus; we were good
friends when I was here, and I know that he hates this life and
longs to be free from it. He would have run away and joined the
gladiators when they rose at Praeneste had I not dissuaded him. He
could leave without the others knowing it, and in the morning you
might affect a belief that he has run away, and give notice to the
magistrate here and have him sought for. In that way there would
be no suspicion of his having joined us. I know that he is valuable
to you, being, I think, the best of your troop, but I will pay you
whatever price you place his services at."

"No, no," Scopus said, "I will give him to you, Beric, for the sake
of our friendship, and for your consideration for me in not taking
the rest with you. I have done well by you and him. Stay here and
I will fetch him out to you; it may be that many will desert both
from me and the other lanistae when they hear that you have taken
to the mountains, but for that I cannot be blamed. You have come
far out of your way to come hither."

"Yes, 'tis a long detour, but it will matter little. We shall
skirt round the foot of the hills, cross the Lyris below Praeneste,
and then make straight to the mountains. They will not search for
us in that direction, and we will take shelter in a wood when day
breaks, and gain the mountains tomorrow night. Once there we shall
be safe, and shall move farther south to the wild hills between
Apulia and Campania, or if it is too hot for us there, down into
Bruttium, whence we can, if it be needed, cross into Sicily. I am
not thinking of making war with Rome. We intend to live and die as
free men, and methinks that in the mountains we may laugh at the
whole strength of Rome."

"You will find plenty of others in the same condition there, Beric;
escaped slaves and gladiators constantly make for the hills, and
there have been many expeditions against the bands there, who are
often strong enough to be a danger to the towns near the foot of
the mountains."

"We are not going to turn brigands," Beric said; "there is game on
the hills, and we are all hunters, and I have money enough to pay
for all else we require did we live there for years. But fetch me
Porus. We must be far from here by daylight."

Porus soon came out, much surprised at being suddenly roused from
sleep, and silently brought out of the house by Scopus. As soon as
Beric explained to him what had happened, he joyfully agreed to
join him, and stole in and fetched his arms. Then with a hearty
adieu to Scopus Beric placed himself at the head of his band and
struck off by the road to Praeneste. Walking fast they arrived
at the bank of the Lyris before daybreak, crossed the river in
a fisherman's boat they found on the bank, and just as daylight
showed in the sky entered an extensive grove, having walked over
forty miles since leaving Rome. They slept during the day, taking
it by turns to watch at the edge of the wood, and when it was again
dark started afresh, and were, when morning broke, high up on the
slopes of the Apennines.

"I feel a free man again now," Boduoc said. "It does not seem to
me that I have drawn a breath of fresh air since I entered Rome;
but fresh air, good as it is, Beric, is not altogether satisfying,
and I begin to feel that I have eaten nothing since I supped the
day before yesterday."

"We will push on for another hour," Beric said, "and then we shall
be fairly beyond the range of cultivation. At the last house we
come to we will go in and purchase food. Flour is the principal
thing we need; we shall have no difficulty in getting goats from
the herdsmen who pasture their animals among the hills."

An hour later Beric, with Boduoc and two of his followers, went up
to a farm house. The farmer and his servants ran into the house,
raising cries of alarm at the sight of the four tall armed figures.

"Do not fear," Beric said when he reached the door, "we are not
brigands, but honest men, who desire to pay for what we need."

Somewhat reassured, the farmer came out. "What does my lord require?"
he asked, impressed by a nearer view of Beric's dress and arms.

"How much flour have you in the house?" Beric asked, "and what is
the price of it?"

The farmer had three sacks of flour. "I will take them all," Beric
said, "and three skins of wine if you have them. I would also buy
two sheep if you name me a fair price for the whole."

The farmer named a price not much above that which he would have
obtained in the market, and Beric also bought of him a number of
small bags capable of containing some fifteen or twenty pounds of
flour each. Then one of the men fetched up the rest of the band;
the flour was divided and packed in the small bags; the sheep were
killed and cut up; three of the men lifted the wine skins on to
their shoulders; the rest took the flour and meat, and they marched
away, leaving the farmer and his family astounded at the appearance
of these strange men with fair hair and blue eyes, and of stature
that appeared to them gigantic.

Still ascending the mountain the band halted in a forest. Wood was
soon collected and a fire lighted. The contents of one of the bags
was made into dough at a stream hard by, divided into cakes and
placed on red hot ashes, while the meat was cut up and hung over
the fire.

"We have forgotten drinking horns," Beric said, "but your steel
cap, Porus, will serve us for a drinking cup for today."

After a hearty meal they lay down for some hours to sleep, and then
resumed their march. They were getting well into the heart of the
mountains when a figure suddenly appeared on a crag above them.

"Who are you?" he shouted, "and what do you here in the mountains?"

"We are fugitives from the tyranny of Rome," Beric replied. "We
mean harm to no man, but those who would meddle with us are likely
to regret it."

"You swear that you are fugitives," the man called back.

"I swear," Beric said, holding up his hand.

The man turned round and spoke to someone behind him, and a moment
later a party of fifteen men appeared on the crag and began to
descend into the ravine up which Beric's band were making their
way.

"It is the Britons," the leader exclaimed as he neared them. "Why,
Beric, is it you, tired already of the dignities of Rome? How fares
it with you, Boduoc?"

Beric recognized at once a Gaul, one of the gladiators of Scopus,
who had some months before fled from the ludus. In a minute the
two bands met. Most of the newcomers were Gauls, and, like their
leader, escaped gladiators, and as Beric's name was well known to
all they saluted him with acclamations. Both parties were pleased
at the meeting, for, akin by race and speaking dialects of the same
language, they regarded each other as natural allies.

"The life of an outlaw will be a change to you after Nero's palace,
Beric," Gatho, their leader, said.

"A pleasant change," Beric replied. "I have no taste for gilded
chains. How do you fare here, Gatho?"

"There are plenty of wild boars among the mountains, and we can
always get a goat when they are lacking. There are plenty of them
wild all over the hills, escaped captives like ourselves. As for
wine and flour, we have occasionally to make a raid on the villages."

"I do not propose to do that," Beric said; "I have money to buy
what we require; and if we set the villagers against us, sooner or
later they will lead the troops after us up the mountains."

"I would gladly do that too, but the means are lacking. We owe the
peasants no ill will, but one must live, you know."

"Have you any place you make your headquarters?"

"An hour's march from hence; I will lead you to it."

The united bands continued to climb the hills, and on emerging from
the ravine Gatho led them for some distance along the upper edge
of a forest, and then turned up a narrow gorge in the hillside with
a little rivulet running down it. The ravine widened out as they
went up it, till they reached a spot where it formed a circular
area of some hundred and fifty feet in diameter, surrounded on all
sides by perpendicular rocks, with a tiny cascade a hundred feet
in height falling into it at the farther end. Some rough huts of
boughs of trees were erected near the centre.

"A good hiding place," Beric said, "but I see no mode of retreat,
and if a peasant were to lead a party of Romans to the entrance
you would be caught in a trap."

"We have only been here ten days," Gatho said, "and never stop long
in one place; but it has the disadvantage you speak of. However,
we have always one or two men posted lower down, at points where
they can see any bodies of men ascending the hills. They brought
us notice of your coming when you were far below, so you see we
are not likely to be taken by surprise, and the Roman soldiers are
not fond of night marches among the mountains."

As it was some hours since the Britons had partaken of their meal
they were quite ready to join the Gauls in another, and the carcass
of a wild boar hanging up near the huts was soon cut up and roasting
over a fire, the Britons contributing wine and flour to the meal.
After it was over there was a long talk, and after consulting
together Gatho and his band unanimously agreed in asking Beric to
take command of the whole party.

"We all know you, Beric," Gatho said. "None could like you have
fought a lion barehanded, and I know that there was no one in the
ludus who was your match with the sword, while Boduoc and the other
five were infinitely superior to any of us in strength. Besides,
you are well versed in Roman ways, and have led an army against
them, therefore we all are ready to accept you as our leader and
to obey your orders if you will take us."

"I will do so willingly, Gatho. I do not wish to have more than
fifty men with me, for it would be difficult to find subsistence
for a larger number. A hundred is the outside number, and doubtless
we shall be able to gather other recruits should we choose to raise
the band to that number; but all who follow me must obey me as
implicitly as did my own tribesmen in our struggle with the Romans,
and must swear to do no harm to innocent people, and to abstain
from all violence and robbery. I am ready to be a leader of outlaws
but not of brigands. I desire only to live a free life among the
mountains. If the Romans come against us we will fight against them,
and the spoil we may take from them is lawful booty, to be used in
exchange for such things as we may require. But with the peasants
we will make friends, and if we treat them well they will bring us
news of any expeditions that may be on foot for our capture. As I
said I have money enough to buy everything we want at present, and
can obtain more if necessary, so that there is no reason for us
to rob these poor people of their goods. Here we are too near Rome
for them to be disaffected, but further south we shall find them
not unwilling to aid us, for the provinces are ground into the dust
by the exactions necessary to pay for the cost of the rebuilding
of Rome and to support the extravagance of Nero."

The Gauls cheerfully took the required oath.

"You, Gatho, will continue to act as my lieutenant with your
Gauls, Boduoc commands the Britons under me. It may be necessary
at times for the band to divide, as when game is scarce we may find
a difficulty in keeping together, especially if we recruit our band
up to a hundred. I am determined to have no malefactors who have
fled from justice nor riotous men among us. I should prefer that
they should be chiefly your countrymen, but we will not refuse
gladiators of other nations who have been captured as prisoners of
war. We want no escaped slaves among us. A man who has once been
a slave might try to buy his pardon and freedom by betraying us.
We will be free men all, asking only to live in freedom among the
mountains, injuring none, but determined to fight and die in defence
of that freedom."

These sentiments were warmly welcomed by the Gauls. The next day the
number of men on the lookout was increased, and the band, breaking
up into small parties, scattered among the mountains in pursuit of
wild boars and goats. Some were to return, successful or not, at
night to the encampment, and on the following day to take the place
of those on watch, and relays were provided so that during the week
each would take a turn at that duty.

Never did men enjoy a week's hunting with greater zest than
the Britons. To them life seemed to begin anew, and although the
skies were bluer and the mountains higher and rougher than those
of Britain, it seemed to them that they were once again enjoying
their native air, and of an evening rude chants of Gaul and Britain
echoed among the rocks.

Porus, the Syrian, stood somewhat apart from the rest, not
understanding the tongue of the others, and he therefore became
naturally the special companion of Beric; for having been six years
in Rome he spoke Latin fluently.

"It is I who must go down to get you news, Beric," he said one
day. "You Britons could not disguise yourselves, for even if you
stained your cheeks and dyed your hair your blue eyes and your
height would betray you at once. The Gauls, too, though shorter
than you, are still much taller and broader men than the Romans,
and there are none of them who speak the language well enough to
ask a question without their foreign tongue being detected. I am
about the height of the Romans, and am swarthier than the Gauls,
and could, if I borrowed the dress of one of the goatherds, pass
among them without notice. It would certainly be well, as you were
saying, to know what is being done below, and whether there is any
idea of sending troops up into the mountains to search for us.

"You may be sure that after the scare you gave Nero, and the defeat
of his guards, the matter will not be allowed to drop, and that
they will search all Italy for you. I should think that, at first,
they will seek for you in the north, thinking that you would be
likely, after taking to the hills--which you would be sure to do,
for such a party could never hope to traverse the plains unnoticed
--to keep along the chain to the north, cross the Cisalpine plains,
and try the passage of the great mountains."

"At any rate it will be well, Porus, to know what they are doing.
If they are at present confining their search to the northern
range we can stay where we are with confidence. I should be sorry
to move, for we are well placed here; there is good water and game
is abundant. We certainly shall soon lack wine, but for everything
else we can manage. We have meat in abundance, and have flour to
last for some time, for both we and the Gauls eat but little bread;
besides, if pushed, we can do as the peasants do, pound up acorns
and beechnuts and make a sort of bread of them."

"Very well, Beric, I will go down tomorrow."

Early in the morning, however, two of the men on sentry came in
and said that they observed the glitter of the sun on spearhead
and armour far down the hillside.

"If they are after us," Beric said, "as I expect they are, they
have doubtless learned that we are somewhere in this part of the
mountains from the man of whom we bought the wine and flour. I
don't suppose he intended to do us harm, but when he went down to
purchase fresh supplies he may well have mentioned that a party of
strong men of unusual height, and with fair hair, had bought up
his stock, paying for it honestly, which would perhaps surprise
him more than anything. If the news had come to the ears of any of
the officials, they, knowing the hue and cry which was being made
for us, would have sent word at once to Praeneste or Rome. We must
at once recall those who are away. Philo, take a couple of brands
and go and light the signal fire."

A pile of dry wood had been placed in readiness upon a projecting
rock a mile away and standing in position where it was visible from
a considerable extent of the hillside. It had been settled that
the parties of hunters who did not return at nightfall should
occasionally send one of their number to a point whence he could
get a view of the beacon.

"Directly the pile is well alight, Philo, pluck up green bushes
and tufts of grass and throw upon it, so as to make as much smoke
as possible."

There were eighteen men in the encampment, and four out on guard.
Boduoc and Gatho were both away, and as soon as Philo had started
with the brands Beric and Porus set out with the two scouts.

"That was where we saw them," one of them said, pointing far down
the hillside, "but by this time they will no doubt have entered
the wooded belt."

"We must find out something about their numbers," Beric said. "Not
that I wish to fight; for were we to inflict losses upon them they
would more than ever make efforts to overtake us. Still, it will
be as well to know what force they may think sufficient to capture
us."

"I will go down through the forest," Porus said, "doubtless they
will have some light armed troops with the spearmen; but they must
be fleet indeed if they overtake me after all my training."

"Do not let them see you if you can help it, Porus, or they will
follow close behind you, although they might not overtake you, and
that might bring on a fight."

"I will be careful;" and leaving his buckler behind him, Porus
started on his way down the mountain.

In an hour and a half he returned. "I have had a good view of them,"
he said; "they have halted at the place where we got the flour.
There are a hundred heavy armed troops and a hundred archers and
slingers."

"They have come in strength," Beric said; "it shows that they do
not hold the Britons cheaply. We will return at once to the camp.
By this time the hunters should be back."

Sending one of the men to call in the other sentries, they returned
to the huts. Boduoc, with a party of ten men, had already come in,
and said that they had seen Gatho's party making their way down
from a point high up in the mountains.

"We will pause no longer," Beric said, "we shall meet them as they
descend; take the flour and what little wine remains, and let us
be going. Scatter the fire and extinguish the brands; unless they
have found some goatherd who has marked us coming and going, they
may not find this place. I hope they will not do so, as it would
encourage them by the thought that they had nearly captured us."

The party had ascended the mountain half a mile when they met Gatho
returning.

"I like not to retreat without fighting," he said, when he had
heard from Beric of the coming of the Romans and their force; "but
I agree with you that it is better not to anger them farther."

"I want three of the fleetest footed of your men, Gatho, to stay
behind with Porus and watch them, themselves unseen. We will cross
over the crest of the hills to the eastern side, Porus. Do you mark
that tall craig near the summit; you will find one of us there,
and he will lead you to our camping place. I want to know whether
the Romans, after spending the day searching the hills, go back
through the forest, or whether they encamp here. In the one case we
can return, in the other it will be better to move south at once.
We could laugh at their heavy armed spearmen, but their archers
and slingers carry no more weight than we do, and would harass us
sorely with their missiles, which we have no means of returning."

As soon as the men to remain with Porus were chosen, the rest of
the band proceeded on their way.



CHAPTER XIX: OUTLAWS


It was late at night before Porus with the three Gauls joined the
rest of the band in their new encampment on the eastern slope of
the hills.

"As soon as the moon rises, Beric, we must be up and moving.
The Romans are in earnest. When they came through the forest they
ascended for some little distance, and then the spearmen halted
and the light armed troops scattered in parties of four searching
the country like dogs after game. They were not very long before
they discovered signs of us, whether footmarks or broken twigs I
know not, but following them they soon came upon the entrance of
the ravine. No doubt our marks were plain enough there, for the
spearmen were brought down. What happened then I know not; no doubt
they entered and found that we had gone. At any rate, in a short
time they set out briskly up the mountain, the spearmen as before
keeping together, and the light armed men scattering.

"All day they searched, and it was well that you crossed the crest.
They halted for the night halfway between the forest and the summit,
and I determined to learn something of their intentions. So after
it was dark I laid aside my arms and crawled into the camp. The
ground was broken and rough, and there was no great difficulty in
getting close to their fires. I learned that the whole of the legion
at Praeneste had been sent into the mountains, and that there were
twenty parties of equal force; they were but a mile and a half apart,
and considered that they could search every foot of the ground for
thirty miles along, and would assuredly discover us if we were still
in this part. More than that, troops from Corfinium and Marrubium
had started to search the eastern slopes, and between them they
made sure that they should catch you, now that they had found, by
the heat of the earth where our fire had been, that we must have
been there but an hour or so before their arrival."

"If that is the case we must make our way to the south at once,"
Beric said. "It is well indeed that we decided to retreat without
fighting, for had we retired, closely pursued by their archers,
their shouts would certainly have been heard by some of the other
parties. It is fortunate we did not light a fire; had we done so it
might have brought some of the troops from Marrubium, which cannot
be far distant from here, upon us. The moon will not be up for
three hours yet, and it is useless to try to make our way among
these mountains until we have her light, therefore let all lie down
to sleep; I will keep guard and will rouse you when it is time to
move."

Beric sat listening intently for any sound that would tell of the
approach of foemen. He had, however, but small fear that the Romans
were moving at present. It would be even more difficult for them
than for his men to make their way about in the darkness; besides,
the day must have been an extremely fatiguing one for them. They
had, doubtless, started long before dawn, had had to climb the
mountains, and had been all day on their feet. They would scarcely
recommence the search before morning. Easy on this score, his
thoughts turned to Rome. That Aemilia had gained the shelter of
the Catacombs he had no doubt, and he wondered how she fared there
among the Christian fugitives. As to Norbanus he had but slight
hopes of ever seeing him alive. Nero's vengeance always extended
to the families of those who offended him, and Norbanus would
certainly be held responsible for the flight of Aemilia. He thought
it indeed probable that as soon as Aemilia left, Norbanus would
have called his friends together, and, having opened his veins,
would die as Piso had done discussing philosophy with them.

As soon as the moon was fairly up he aroused his companions and
they started along the hillside. It was difficult work making their
way on, now descending into a deep ravine, now climbing a rugged
slope, now passing along a bare shoulder. There was no pause until
day broke, when they descended into a gorge and lay down among
some clumps of bushes, one man being sent half a mile down while
two others were posted on each side of the ravine. They had good
reason for hope, however, that they had got beyond the point to
which the searching parties would extend on the eastern side of the
hill. The day passed without alarms, although the sentries above
more than once heard the sounds of distant trumpets. As soon as
the sun set they continued their way, halting again until the moon
rose, and then keeping south until daybreak.

They were sure now that they were far beyond the parties of Romans,
but after a few hours' sleep they again pressed on, and at night
lighted their fires and prepared for a longer stay. But the orders
of Nero were so imperative that the troops, having thoroughly
searched the mountains at the point where they had ascended them,
united, and also moved south in a long line extending from the
summit of the hills to the lower edge of the forest; and after two
days' halt the fugitives again moved south, and continued their
journey until they found themselves among the wild and lofty hills
of Bruttium.

But their numbers had swollen as they went, for the other fugitive
bands among the hills were also driven south by the advance of
the Romans, and it was a miscellaneous body of gladiators, escaped
slaves, and malefactors, in all over five hundred strong, that crossed
the mountains into Bruttium. There was a general wish among them
that Beric should take the command of the whole. This, however, he
absolutely declined to do, upon the ground that it was impossible
for so large a body of men to keep together, as there would be no
means of feeding them. Scattered about they would find an ample
supply of meat from the wild goats, boars and semi-wild swine,
but together, they would soon scare away the game. From among the
gladiators, however, he picked out sufficient men to raise his
own force to a hundred strong, and separating from the rest he led
them, guided by a charcoal burner, to one of the wildest and most
inaccessible points in the promontory.

Here they were safe from pursuit. Bruttium, now called Calabria,
is a chain of rugged hills, at that time thickly covered with wood,
and although it was possible fairly to search the Apennines in the
centre of Italy with six or seven thousand men, a large army would
fail to find a band of fugitives in the recesses of the mountains
of the south. On the evening of their arrival at the spot they
determined to make their headquarters, Beric held a sort of council
of war, the whole of the band, as was the custom both in Gaul and
Britain, joining in the deliberations.

"So far," Beric began, "we have retreated without fighting; Rome
cannot complain that we have been in insurrection against her, we
have simply acted as fugitives; but as there is nowhere else whither
we can retire, we must turn upon them if they again pursue us. We
must then regard this as our abode for a long time, and make ourselves
as comfortable as we can. Huts we can erect of the branches of
trees, the skins of the goats we kill will provide us with bedding,
and if needs be with clothing. Meat will not fail us, for should
game become scarce we can buy goats and sheep from the shepherds
who come up with their flocks and herds from the villages by the
sea. But besides this we need many things for comfort. We must have
utensils for cooking, and drinking cups, and shall need flour and
wine; we must therefore open communications with one of the towns
by the sea. This is the great difficulty, because of all things I
fear treachery; for nigh a year we fought the Romans at home, and
could have fought them for twenty more had we not been betrayed
and surrounded.

"Of that there will always be a danger. I have gold, and shall always
pay for what we require; but the other bands among these hills will
not be so scrupulous, and as, indeed, they will be forced to take
food, they will set the inhabitants against us, and the Romans
will have no difficulty in finding guides among them. So long as we
keep ourselves far apart from the rest we are comparatively safe;
but none of the natives must know of our hiding place. Can anyone
propose a good plan for obtaining supplies?"

There was silence for some time. These men were all good for
fighting, but few of them had heads to plan. At last Porus said:

"We are, as our guide tells me, but two hours' journey from
the hills whence we may look down upon the gulf dividing Bruttium
from Sicily. The lower slopes of these hills are, he says, closely
cultivated. There are many small villages some distance up on their
sides, and solitary farms well nigh up to the crest. It seems to
me that we should use one of these farmers as our agent. He must
be a man with a wife and family, and these would be hostages. If
we told him that if he did our bidding he would be well rewarded,
while if unfaithful we would destroy his farmhouse and slay his
wife and children, I think we might trust him. Two or three of us
could go down with him to the town on the seashore, dressed as men
working under him, and help bring up the goods he purchases. The
quantity might excite suspicion did he always go to the same place
for them, but he need not always do this. If we found it impossible
to get enough by means of one man, we might carry out this plan with
three or four of them. None of these men need know the direction
of our camp; it would suffice that the wine and flour were brought
to their houses. We could always send a strong party to fetch them
thence as we require them."

"I do not think we can hit on any better plan, Porus;" and as there
was a murmur of assent he continued: "I propose, my friends, that
we appoint Porus the head of our victualling department, and leave
the arrangements to him entirely."

This point was settled. The next morning Porus, taking three of the
gladiators who most resembled the natives in appearance, started
on his mission. He was completely successful. The farmers on the
upper slopes of the hills lived in terror of the banditti among the
mountains, and one was readily induced, by the offer of a reward
for his service, and of freedom from all molestation, to undertake
the business of getting up corn and wine. Henceforth supplies of
these articles were obtained regularly. Huts were soon erected;
the men were divided into hunting parties, and the life of the
fugitives passed quietly, and for a time without incident.

The persons with whom Beric had deposited his money had all been
chosen for him by Norbanus. He himself had been too long away from
Italy to be acquainted with any outside the walls of Rome; but among
his friends there were several who were able to recommend men of
property and character to whom the money could be committed with
the certainty that it would be forthcoming whenever demanded. At
present Beric was amply supplied with funds, for the money that
Norbanus had sent to him would last for at least a year; but, four
months after reaching Bruttium, he thought it would be as well to
warn those in whose charge his own stores had been placed, to hold
it in readiness by them in case it should be suddenly asked for.
Philo seemed to him the only person he could send on such a mission,
and upon the more important one of going to Rome and communicating
with Aemilia. He was certain of the fidelity of the lad, and, properly
disguised, he was less likely to be recognized in Rome than Porus
would be. Clothes such as would be worn by the son of a well to do
cultivator were obtained for him, and he was directed to take the
road along the coast to Rome, putting up at inns in the towns, and
giving out that he was on his way to the capital to arrange for
the purchase of a farm adjoining that of his father.

Letters were given him to the persons holding Beric's money; and
one for the goldsmith in Rome, with whom a portion of the money he
had given for the jewellery that Beric had received at the games
was still deposited. This letter was not to be delivered until he
had been to the catacombs and seen Aemilia; as, although Scopus
had spoken very highly of the man, it was possible that he might,
to gain favour with Nero, hand over Beric's messenger to him. Beric
fully impressed upon Philo the risks he would run, and told him to
make all his calls after nightfall, and to be prepared for instant
flight if he mistrusted the manner of any of the men he visited.

"Do not be afraid, Beric," Philo said; "I will not be taken alive.
I know that they would torture me to force me to lead them to your
hiding place, and I would rather die a thousand times first. I was
but a slave when I was allotted to you in the palace of Nero. You
have been kind to me, and trusted me. You have allowed me to go with
you, and have behaved to me as if I had been free and one of your
own people. I have my dagger, and if I see that evil is intended
me I will not wait until they lay hands on me, for then my blow
might fail, but will make sure. But before I start give me full
instructions what I am to say to the Lady Aemilia; for however
fully you may write, she will be sure to want to know more, and,
above all, instruct me what to do if she demands to join you, and
commands me to bring her here. This, methinks, she is sure to do,
and I must have your instructions in the matter."

"I shall tell her in my letter, Philo, that this is no place for
her, and that I cannot possibly have her here, among rough men,
where, at any moment, we may be called upon to make distant and
toilsome journeys, and even to fight for our lives."

"That is all very well, my lord; but suppose she says to me it is
only because Beric thinks that I cannot support fatigue and hardship
that he does not send for me; but I am willing and ready to do so,
and I charge you, therefore, to take me to him."

This was a point that Beric had many times thought over deeply.
He, too, felt sure that Aemilia would choose to be with him;
and accustomed as the Britons were for their wives to share their
perils, and to journey with them when they went on warlike expeditions,
it seemed to him that she had almost a right to be with him. Then,
too, her life must be dreary in the extreme, shut up in caverns
where the light of day never penetrated, in ignorance of his fate,
and cut off from all kinsfolk and friends. The question so puzzled
him that he finally took Porus into his confidence, having a high
idea of his good sense.

"She cannot come here," Porus agreed; "but I do not see why you
should not bring her from that dismal place where you say she is,
and establish her near at hand, either at one of the upper farmhouses,
or in a town by the sea. Let me think it over. In an hour I will
tell you what seems to me the best plan. My counsel is this," he
said, after he had been absent for an hour from the hut, "I myself
will go with the lad to fetch her. A Roman lady, even though
a fugitive, should not be travelling about the country under the
protection of a lad. I dare not go into Rome. I am known to too
many of the gladiators, and, disguise myself as I might, I should
be recognized before I had been there an hour. I will obtain a
dress such as would suit a respectable merchant; I will go down to
one of the ports below and take passage in a trading craft bound
for Ostia. There I will take lodgings, and giving out that my
daughter, who has been staying with friends for her education in
Rome, is about to return to Messina with me, will purchase two or
three female slaves. When she arrives with Philo, who can pass as
her brother and my son, we will take ship and come down hither.
I can then bring her up and place her in the house of one of the
farmers; or can, if you like, take a house in the town, or lodge
her there with people to whom one of the farmers might recommend
her. But, at any rate, she could come up to one of the farm houses
first, to see you, and then you could arrange matters between you.
She would really run no danger. You say she went out but little in
Rome, and it would be ill luck indeed were there anyone on this
coast who met her there. If it were not for your preposterous height,
your yellow hair and blue eyes, there would be no difficulty about
the matter at all, for you would have but to cross the straits into
Sicily, to buy a small property there, and to settle down quietly;
but it is impossible with your appearance to pass as one of the
Latin race."

"Besides," Beric said, "I could not desert my comrades. Whatever
their lot may be, mine must be also. If we are ever to escape, we
must escape together; but for the rest, I think your plan is a good
one, Porus, and thank you heartily. When you get to Ostia you will
learn all that is going on in Rome, what has befallen Norbanus, and
other matters. If Norbanus is alive, Aemilia will certainly be in
communication with him by means of the Christians, and will, of
course, be guided by his advice."

The next day Porus and Philo set out together. Three weeks passed,
and then one morning Philo entered the camp.

"All has gone well, my lord, the Lady Aemilia is at the house of
the farmer Cornelius, with whom Porus arranged to receive her on
the morning we left you. She has sent no letter, for there were no
writing materials in the house, but she awaits your coming."

Beric hastened away at once, accompanied by the lad, who by the
way gave an account of his journey.

"It was as I thought," he said. "When I came to the house you told
me of, I knocked as you instructed me, gave the ring to the man
within and begged him to take it to the Lady Aemilia. He at first
pretended that he knew nothing of such a person; but at last, on my
showing him the letter addressed to her, he said that some friends
of his might know where she was, and that if I called again, two
hours before midnight, he might have news of her. When I came back
the Lady Aemilia was there. She asked many questions about your
health before she opened your letter, the one that you first wrote
to her. When she had read it she said, 'My lord bids me stay here,
Philo, and I am, above all things, bound to obey him; but he says
that he bids me remain, because the hardships would be too great
for me. But I know that I could support any hardships; and kind as
they are to me here, I would rather go through anything with my
husband than remain here; the darkness and the silence are more
trying than any hardships. So you see that my lord's orders were
given under a misapprehension, and as I am sure he would not have
given them had he known that I was not afraid of hardships, and
desired above all things to be with him, I shall disobey them, and
he, when I join him, must decide whether I have done wrong, and,
if he thinks so, send me away from him."

"Then, my lord, seeing that it was so, I gave her your second
letter, in which you said that if she wished to join you you had
made arrangements for her doing so. Then she kissed the letter and
cried over it, and said that she was ready to depart when I came
to fetch her. Then she told me that Norbanus had opened his veins
that night after she had left, and that the soldiers of Nero
arrived just too late to trouble him; that all his property had
been confiscated, and that she had no friends in the world but you.

"It took a week for Porus to obtain two suitable slaves--the one
an elderly woman and the other a young servant.

"The goldsmith handed over your money to me at once, saying, 'I
am glad to hear that Beric is alive. Tell him that he did badly
in not slaying the tyrant when he had him at his mercy. Tell him,
too, there are rumours of deep discontent among the legions in the
provinces, and a general hope among the better class of Romans that
they will ere long proclaim a new emperor and overthrow Nero. Tell
him also to be on his guard. There is a talk of an expedition on
a large scale, to root out those who are gathered in the mountains
of Bruttium. It is said that it is to be commanded by Caius Muro,
who but a week ago returned from Syria.'"

"Is it so?" Beric exclaimed. "I know him well, having lived in his
house for years. I should be sorry indeed that we should meet as
enemies. Heard you aught of his daughter?"

"Not from the goldsmith, but afterwards. She is married, I hear,
to Pollio, who is of the family of Norbanus."

"I am indeed glad to hear it, Philo. He also was a great friend of
mine, and as he knew Muro in Britain, would doubtless have sought
him out in Syria, where he, too, held an office. 'Tis strange
indeed that he should have married Berenice, whom I last saw as a
girl, now fully four years back. And all went well on the voyage?"

"Well indeed, my lord. I took the Lady Aemilia down to Ostia in
a carriage with closed curtains. She stayed two days in the place
Porus had hired, and none suspected on the voyage that she was
other than his daughter."

"And how is she looking, Philo?"

"At first, my lord, she was looking strangely white, and I feared
that her health had suffered; but she said that it was dwelling in
the darkness that had so whitened her, and indeed the sun during
the voyage has brought the colour back to her cheeks, and she is
now looking as she used to do when I carried letters to the house
from Nero's palace."

Once arrived at the brow of the hill, looking down upon the Straits
of Messina, Beric's impatience could be no longer restrained, and
he descended the slope with leaps and bounds that left Philo far
behind. Porus was at the door of the farm; Beric grasped his hand.

"She is in there," he said, pointing to a door, and a moment later
Aemilia fell into his arms.

In half an hour the door opened.

"Come in, Porus and Philo," Beric called. "I must first thank you,
both in my own name and that of my betrothed, for the great service
you have rendered us, and the care and kindness with which you have
watched over her. We have settled nothing yet about the future,
except that tomorrow I shall complete the betrothal, and she will
become my wife. It should be done today, but my faithful Boduoc
must be here as a witness. It would be a disappointment indeed to
him were he not to be present at my marriage. For the present, at
any rate, my wife will remain here.

"She would fain go up into the mountains, but that cannot be. Not
only is our life too rough for her, but her presence there would
greatly add to my anxieties. Here she will be safe, and you, Philo,
will remain with her. I am convinced that I can trust Cornelius.
You have told me, Porus, that you are assured of his honesty, and
as I can pay him well, and he can have no idea that the Romans
would be glad to pay a far higher sum for my capture, he has no
temptation to be unfaithful to us; besides, his face is a frank
and open one. I shall charge him that, while Aemilia remains here,
none of his men are to accompany him when he goes down to the port,
for, without meaning harm, they might talk to people there of what
is going on, and the matter might come to the ears of the authorities."

"I think," Porus said, "it would be well, Beric, that I and the
three men who go down with me to bring up goods should take up our
residence here. There is an out house which is unused, and which
we can occupy. In this way we can keep an eye upon the two men on
the farm, and one can be always on the watch to see that no party
of armed men is coming up from the port. I believe in the good
faith of the farmer, but it is always better to take precautions."

"Far better, Porus. The plan you suggest is an excellent one. We
must try and make this chamber a little more fitting for Aemilia's
abode."

"That will soon be done," Porus said. "Knowing what your wishes
would be in such a matter, I purchased at Ostia sufficient stuff
to cover these bare walls, with rugs and such furniture as was
requisite. These I brought up in a cart as far as the road extends,
and I will now go down with Philo and the two men and bring them
up here and help the slaves get the room in order."

Before sunset Beric returned alone to the camp, and the next morning
came back to the farm with Boduoc.

"There is one thing I must tell you, Beric," Aemilia said when he
went in alone to see her, "I have become a Christian."

"I thought it was likely you would do so, Aemilia," he said;
"living among these people, and knowing how Ennia had embraced their
religion, it could hardly be otherwise. You shall tell me about it
afterwards. I know but little of its tenets, but I know how those
who held them faced death, and there must be much indeed in a
religion which teaches men so to die."

"You told me that you would not object, Beric, or I would have
abstained from attending their assemblies. Still, it was right I
should tell you before I became your wife."

Porus and his companion had spent the morning in gathering flowers.
These the slaves had made into wreaths and had decorated the room,
which was completely changed in appearance since Beric left it on
the afternoon before. The roughly built walls were hidden by rich
hangings. The floor was covered with matting, on which were placed
thick rugs woven in the East. Two or three carved couches were
placed against the walls, and as many small tables on tripod legs
stood beside them. The farmer and his wife were called in, and
in their presence and that of his three followers Beric performed
the simple ceremony of a Roman marriage, consisting only of taking
Aemilia's hand in his and declaring that, in conformity with the
conditions of the pact before made and signed, and with the full
consent and authorization of her father, he took her to be his
wife.

Beric remained three days down at the cottage, and then rejoined
his band. A few days later a messenger came in from one of the
bands at the other side of the promontory of Bruttium, saying they
had obtained news that preparations were being made at Sybaris for
the landing of a very large body of troops, and that it was said to
be the intention of the Romans to make a great expedition through
the mountains and entirely exterminate the outlaws.

"They would have left us alone," Beric said bitterly, "if it had
not been that you made yourselves scourges to the country, pillaging
and ravaging the villages among the hills and slaying innocent
people."

"We were obliged to live," the man said. "Rome has driven us into
the mountains, and we must feed at the expense of Rome."

Beric was silent. He felt that had he himself not had means his
own bands would have also taken to pillage. The men who took to
the hills regarded themselves as at war with Rome. Rome sent her
soldiers against them, and slew every man captured. She hunted
them like wild beasts, and as wild beasts they had to live at her
expense. Beric was not in advance of the spirit of his time. It
was the custom in war to burn, destroy, and slay.

That as Rome warred with them they should war with Rome seemed
natural to every fugitive in the hills, and they regarded their
leader's action in purchasing what he could have taken by force
simply as an act of policy. Their own people had been slain by the
Romans, they themselves doomed to risk their lives for the amusement
of the Roman mob. If recaptured they would, like the followers
of Spartacus, be doubtless put to death by crucifixion. That,
under these circumstances, they should be in the slightest degree
influenced by any feeling of pity or humanity towards Romans would,
if suggested to them, have appeared supremely ridiculous.

Beric felt, then, that for him to say any further word of blame would
only have the effect of causing him to be regarded with suspicion
and dislike, and would lessen his own influence among the mountain
bands.

He therefore said, "That you should take what is necessary is not
blamable, against it I have nothing to say; but it was to the interest
of all of us that nothing more should be taken. Rome would not have
been stirred to send an army against us merely by the complaints
of peasants that some of their goats and sheep had been driven off
or their granaries emptied; but when it comes to burning villages
and slaughtering their inhabitants, and carrying fire and sword down
to the seashore, Rome was roused. She felt her majesty insulted,
and now we are going to have a veritable army invade the mountains.
It is no longer viewed as an affair of brigands, but as an
insurrection. However, there is no more to be said, the mischief
is done, and we have now only to do our best to repel the invasion.
Tell your leaders that tomorrow morning I will set out and join
them, and will with them examine the country, mark the lines by
which the enemy are likely to advance, decide where obstacles had
best be erected, and where the first stand should be made. It may
be weeks yet before they come. Roman armies are not moved as quickly
as a tribe of mountaineers."

The following day Beric, taking with him the greater portion of his
band, marched across the hills under the guidance of the charcoal
burner, who had now enrolled himself regularly in its ranks, and
had taken the oath of obedience. Their course lay to the northeast,
as it was in the Bay of Tarentum that rumour reported that the
Romans would land. As, after two days' marching, they neared the
spot fixed upon for the rendezvous, they came upon other bands
journeying in the same direction; and when these united on a shoulder
of the hill commanding a view of the great bay, some eight hundred
men were assembled. Fires had been already lighted, and a number
of sheep killed and roasted. The leaders withdrew from the rest
as soon as they had finished their meal, and seating themselves at
a point whence they could see the plains stretching away from the
foot of the hills to the gulf, began their consultation.

"I wonder why they are coming round here?" one of the chiefs said;
"they might have landed at Rhegium in the straits, and thence
marched straight up into the hills. From where your camp is, Beric,
you should know what is going on there, for the town stands almost
below you. Is nought said there about military preparations?"

"Nothing whatever," Beric replied; "nor do I think it likely that
they will attack from that point, for if they advanced thence, we
should simply retire through the mountains to the north just as we
retired south when they before attacked us. It is clear what their
object is: they will sail up that river and will disembark at
Cosenza; the hills narrow there, and it is but a short distance
across them to the Western Sea. Ascending them they will at once
cut us off from any retreat north. They will have their magazines
close at hand. A thousand men stationed in a chain across the
mountains will suffice to bar our way, while the rest will move
south, penning us up as they go, until they drive us down to the
very edge of the promontory, where, joined perhaps by a force coming
up from Rhegium, they will have us altogether in their grip."

An expression of dismay spread round the circle. They had thought
that the Romans would but march straight through the mountains,
in which case it would be easy to evade them, but they saw at once
that by the erection of a chain of permanent posts across the hill
from Cosenza they would be completely hemmed in, and must sooner
or later be hunted down.

"Then you think that our only chance is to move to the mountains
north of Cosenza before they land, Beric?"

"I do not say that," Beric replied. "To begin with, we are not going
to remain passive and allow ourselves to be driven like a flock of
sheep into the hurdles. Did they bring against us only heavy armed
troops we could laugh at them, for we can march two miles to their
one, and move easily among the rocks where they could find no
footing. It is only their light armed soldiers we have to fear,
but even these must move at the same rate as the hoplites, for if
they ventured far away from the protection of the spearmen we should
make short work of them. We have over a thousand fighting men in
these mountains, and each one of us in close conflict is a match for
at least three of their light armed men. In the plains, of course,
we should suffer greatly from their missiles before we came to a
close conflict; but among these woods and precipices we could fall
on them suddenly, and be in their midst before they have time to lay
arrow to bow. Therefore, you see, the Romans can move but slowly
among the hills, and we will soon teach them that they dare not
scatter, and even twelve thousand men do not go for much among these
mountains, extending some seventy miles from Cosenza to Rhegium,
and from ten to twenty miles across.

"How about food?" one of the others asked.

"In that respect we shall be far better off than they would. We
shall really have no difficulty about food. It would need twenty
legions to form a cordon along the slopes of these hills on both
sides, and we can, while opposing the Romans, always detach parties
to make forays down into the plain and drive off sheep, goats, and
cattle. Besides, among the lower forests there are herds of swine
pasturing, which will be available for our use. The question of
food will be of no trouble to us, but on the other hand, it will
be a vast trouble to the Romans. Every foot that they advance from
their magazines at Cosenza their difficulties will increase. They
must make roads as they go, and their convoys will always be exposed
to our attacks. Very large bodies of men must otherwise be employed
in escorting them. They may form depots at the foot of the hills
as they advance, but even then their difficulties will be prodigious.

"I should propose to fight them as we fought them in the swamps of
my native land--to harass them night and day, to wear them out
with false alarms, to oppose them in the defiles, to hurl down
the rocks on them from precipices, to cut off their convoys, and
fall upon their camps at night, until they lose all confidence in
themselves, and dare only move hither and thither in a solid body.
Not until they have destroyed the whole of the forests between
Cosenza and Rhegium, and made roads everywhere across the mountains,
ought they be able to overcome us. It will be time enough to think
of retiring then. By descending the western slopes a long night
march would take us north of Cosenza, and we could then take to
the hills again; or we could descend upon the coast near Rhegium
at night, seize a fishing village, embark in its boats and cross
the strait, and before morning be among the mountains of Sicily,
which are so vast and far stretching that operations which, though
possible, are difficult here, could not probably be carried on
against us."

Beric's words were received with enthusiastic approval. Before all
had felt dispirited, and though ready to fight to the last, had
deemed that the resistance could be but short and their fate certain.
Now they saw before them a veritable war, in which they could hope
to defend themselves successfully, and if beaten here escape to
renew it elsewhere, and which promised them an abundant opportunity
for encountering the Romans. This was what they most longed for.
Not one there but hated Rome with a bitter hatred, as the author
of unnumbered woes to their tribes, their families and themselves.
Death had no terrors whatever to these men, so that they could
die fighting with Romans. Rising to their feet they returned with
exulting shouts to their comrades.



CHAPTER XX: MOUNTAIN WARFARE


The gladiators sprang to their feet as their leaders returned to them,
and eagerly questioned them as to the news that had so reanimated
them. But they only replied, "Beric will tell you," and Beric was
obliged to mount a rock near the spot where they had been feasting,
and to repeat to the whole of the assembly his plan for the campaign
against the Romans. Loud shouts greeted his speech, the Gauls and
Britons clashing their swords against their shields as was their
custom, and the others signified their approval each after the
manner of his country.

"Beric is our leader! Beric is our leader!" they shouted. "We will
follow him to the death." When the tumult had subsided, Beric raised
his hand for silence.

"I am willing to accept the leadership," he said; "but if I must
lead I must be obeyed. In a warfare like this everything depends
upon the orders of him who commands being carried out promptly
and without question. I only accept the command because, although
younger than most of you, I have already fought the Romans often
and successfully. Each of you will remain under your respective
chiefs, who will act as my lieutenants, and all must be ready to
sacrifice their own wishes and their own opinions to the general
welfare. Those whom I order to fight will fight, I know; those whom
I tell off to fell trees, to raise obstacles, or to pile stones on
the edge of precipices, must labour with equal zeal; while those
who are despatched to drive up cattle, or to guard them until needed
in the forest, will know that their turn for active fighting will
come in good time. The man who disobeys me dies.

"It is only by acting as one man and under one leader that we can
hope to resist successfully. You are free men, and may consider
it humiliating thus to obey the orders of another; but the Romans
are free men too, and yet they submit to the severest discipline,
and without the slightest question obey the orders of their general.
So it must be here. If all are disposed thus to follow me I accept
the command. Let those who cannot so submit themselves withdraw
and fight in their own fashion. They shall be free to depart, none
harming them."

A great shout followed the conclusion of Beric's speech, and the
whole of those present lifted up their hands and swore implicit
obedience to him. The next few days were spent in making a careful
examination of the mountains above Cosenza, and fixing upon the
points where an active resistance could be best made.

"We must have missiles," Beric said one day when his lieutenants
were gathered round him. "We will not begin the war until the
Romans do so, but we must have weapons. Boduoc, you will tomorrow
take the whole of my band and descend to the plain, fall upon the
town of Castanium at daybreak; the bands of Victor and Marsus will
accompany you and will be also under your orders. My orders are
strict, that no one is to be injured unless he resists. Tell the
inhabitants that we wish them no harm. Ransack the armourers' shops
for arrow and javelin heads, and search all the private houses for
weapons; also bring off all the brass, copper, and iron you can
find, with every axe head and chopper in the town. We can erect
charcoal furnaces here similar to those we used at home, and so
provide ourselves with an ample store of missiles. Bring off from
the carpenters' shops any seasoned wood you can find suitable for
the making of bows. Touch no gold or silver ornaments of the women
--the metals are useless to us here--neither take garments nor
spoil of any other kind. I would show them that, until driven to
it, we are not the foes of the people at large. Above all frighten
no woman; let them see that we, though gladiators and outlaws, are
as well disciplined and as humane as their own soldiery."

Accordingly at sunset Boduoc marched away at the head of two hundred
men, and returned to the mountains late on the following afternoon
with a large store of arms and metal, Beric's orders having been
scrupulously carried out.

"You should have seen the wonder of the people," Boduoc said to
him, "when they saw that we meant them no harm, and that we touched
neither person nor goods save in the matter of arms. They gave us
their best to eat, and many even accompanied us some distance on
our return, overjoyed with the clemency we had shown the town."

There was no lack of charcoal, and in many places the stacks had
been left by the charcoal burners untouched when the bands first
appeared among the mountains. Those who had been accustomed to the
smelting of metals at home were appointed to cast heads for arrows
and javelins, others cut down and split up tough wood and fashioned
the shafts, others made bows; strong parties were set to work to fell
trees and form obstacles in defiles where the rocks rose steeply,
while others piled great heaps of stones and heavy rocks along the
edges of the precipices. As yet there were no signs of the expected
fleet, and when the preparations were complete the bands again
scattered, as it was easier so to maintain themselves in provisions;
and, a party being left to watch for the arrival of the Roman
legions, Beric returned with his band to his former station.

"There will be plenty of time to gather again before they move
forward," he said to their lieutenants. "They will have to collect
the carts from all the country round, to land their stores and to
make their arrangements for victualling. They will know that it is
no easy task that they are undertaking, and that they have desperate
men to meet. It will be a week after they land at the very earliest
before they leave Cosenza."

For a fortnight Beric remained quietly passing the greater portion
of his time at the farmhouse with Aemilia.

"It is terrible to me that you are going to fight the Romans,
Beric," she said.

"I have no desire to fight the Romans, it is they who want to fight
with me," he replied; "and as I have no desire for crucifixion,
or any of the other forms of death which they bestow upon their
captives, I have no choice but to resist. As you do not think any
the worse of me, Aemilia, for having fought your countrymen before,
I don't see that you can take it to heart that I am going to do it
again, especially as you have very small reason to be grateful to
them for the treatment that you and yours have received at their
hands. You must remember, dear, that as my wife, you are a Briton
now, and must no longer speak of the Romans as your people. Still,
were it not for my countrymen, I would gladly bury myself with you
in some cottage far up among the hills of Sicily, and there pass
my life in quiet and seclusion. But without a leader the others
would speedily fall victims to the Romans, and as long as the Romans
press us, I must remain with them."

At the end of the fortnight a messenger arrived saying that a great
fleet had arrived at the mouth of the Crathis River.

"I will from time to time send a messenger to you, Aemilia," Beric
said as he took a tender farewell of his wife, "to tell you how
matters go with us; but do not alarm yourself about me, for some
time there is little chance of close fighting."

The bands gathered in their full force above Cosenza, and during the
week that elapsed before the Romans advanced renewed their labour
at various passes through which it was probable that the enemy would
move. Some of the men were already skilled archers, and the rest
had spent their time for the last fortnight in incessant practice,
and could manage their weapons sufficiently well to be able to send
an arrow into a crowded mass of men.

It was with a feeling of satisfaction that the Roman column was
seen one morning issuing from Cosenza and moving up the road that
there crossed the mountains. Once on the crest they proceeded to
cut down trees and form a camp. While they were so occupied the
gladiators remained on the defensive. Light armed troops had been
pushed by the Romans into the woods, but after being permitted
to advance some distance the sound of a horn was heard, followed
instantly by a flight of arrows, and then by a rush of the gladiators,
who drove these light armed troops before them, killing many, till
they reached the protection of the spearmen.

Again and again during the ensuing week the Romans endeavoured to
penetrate the woods, heavy armed troops accompanying the archers.
Before they had penetrated far into the forest they found their way
arrested by obstacles--lines of felled trees with the branches
pointing towards them, and these were only taken after severe loss,
the defenders shooting through the green hedge, which was only
broken through when working parties with heavy axes came up covered
by the spearmen. One party, pushing on incautiously, was suddenly
attacked on all sides, and after pouring in their missiles
the gladiators charged them, broke the ranks of the spearmen, and
destroyed the whole party, three hundred in number.

After this the advance was delayed until the fortified camp was
complete and stored with provisions. Then the Roman army moved
forward, and was soon engaged in a succession of combats. Every
valley and ravine was defended, invisible foes rolled down masses
of rock among them and a hail of arrows, and it was only when very
strong bodies of archers, supported by spearmen, climbed the heights
on both sides that the resistance ceased. The Romans halted for
the night where they stood, but there was little sleep for them,
for the woods rang with war cries in many languages. The sentries
were shot or stabbed by men who crawled up close to them. At times
the shouts became so threatening and near that the whole force
was called to its feet to repel attack, but in the morning all was
quiet. As before, they were attacked as soon as they moved forward.
No serious opposition was offered to the columns of spearmen, but
the light armed troops who covered the advance and formed a connection
between the columns were exposed to incessant attack.

The third day the Romans, after another disturbed night, again
advanced. This time they met with no opposition, and as they moved
cautiously forward, wondered uneasily what was the meaning of this
silence. Late in the afternoon they learned. They had advanced, each
man carrying three days' provisions with him. Beric, being aware
that this was their custom, had during the night led his men some
distance down the hillside, and making a detour occupied before
morning the ground the Romans had passed over. At midday a great
convoy of baggage animals, laden with provisions, came along. It
extended over a great length, and came in straggling order, the
men leading their animals, and making their way with difficulty
through the thick trees. Five hundred Roman soldiers were scattered
along the line. Suddenly the sound of a horn rose in the woods, and
in an instant, at points all along the line of the convoy, strong
bodies of men burst down upon them.

In vain the Roman soldiers tried to gather in groups. The animals,
frightened by the shouting and din, broke loose from their leaders
and rushed wildly hither and thither, adding to the confusion. Greatly
outnumbered, and attacked by foes individually their superiors both
in strength and skill of arms, and animated by a burning hatred,
the Romans could do little, and the combat terminated in a few
minutes in their annihilation. The men with the convoy were all
killed, a line of gladiators having been posted through the woods,
both ahead and behind it, before the attack began, so that no
fugitives might escape either way to carry the news.

The animals were then collected, and their burdens taken off and
examined. The flour was divided up into parcels that a man could
easily carry on his shoulder, and a large number of skins of wine
set aside. All that could not be taken was scattered and destroyed,
and the animals then slaughtered. As soon as it became dark the
band descended the mountain side, marched for many miles along its
foot, and then again ascended the hills, ready to oppose the Roman
advance; but there was no movement in the morning. Surprised and
alarmed at the non-arrival of the train by nightfall, the general
sent a strong body of troops back to meet them with torches. These
in time came upon the bodies of the men and animals, and at once
returned with the news of the disaster to the camp.

"This is a terrible blow, Pollio," the general said to his son-in-law.
"We had reckoned on an obstinate resistance, but did not dream that
the gladiators would thus oppose us."

"It puts me in mind, Muro, of the work in the fens of Britain; and
indeed more than once I have thought I recognized the war cries
with which the Iceni attacked us. The strategy is similar to that
we then encountered. Can it be possible that Beric is again opposing
us? I heard during the short time we were in Rome that the Britons
in the palace of Nero had risen and escaped. I was too heartbroken
at the fate of my uncle and his family to ask many questions, and
was fully occupied in our preparations. My first thought would have
been to find Beric out had I not been met on landing with the news
of the disgrace and death of Norbanus, and I shunned the palace
of Nero as if the pestilence had been there. No doubt Beric would
have left with the other Britons, and in that case he may well be
at the head of those opposing us."

"The tactics they are adopting certainly look like it, Pollio; and
if they continue to fight as they have done so far, we are likely
to have no better fortune than Suetonius had in his campaign against
them. It is ten days since we left Cosenza, we have made but some
ten miles advance among the hills, and we have lost already eight
hundred hoplites, and I know not how many light armed troops. At
this rate our force will melt away to nothing before we have half
cleared this wilderness of rock and forest. Hitherto in their
revolts the gladiators have met our troops in pitched battle, but
their strength and skill have not availed against Roman discipline.
But in such fighting as this discipline goes for little. They are
fighting on ground they know, can choose their moment for attack,
and hurl all their strength on one point while we are groping
blindly."

"But how can they have got through our lines in the night, Muro?"
Pollio asked. "Our men were posted down to the edge of the forest
on either side of the hills. There were two thousand under arms
all night."

"But there was nothing to prevent them, Pollio, from descending
far below the forest line and coming up again in our rear. This
is what they must have done. Nor have we any means of preventing
their doing so, for nothing short of a force strong enough to reach
down to the sea on either hand would prevent their passing us. At
any rate we must halt here for a time. The whole of our baggage
animals are destroyed, and nothing can be done until another train
is collected."

The war proceeded but slowly. The Romans indeed made some slight
advance, but they were worn out and harassed by incessant alarms.
To prevent the recurrence of the disaster to the baggage train the
supplies were now carried along the plain at the foot of the hill,
and then taken up under very strong escorts directly to the point
at which the army had arrived. The soldiers, worn out and dispirited
by constant alarms, became reluctant to advance unless in solid
order; and in this way five thousand men, taking nine days' provisions
with them, made their way through the heart of the hills until they
reached the southern slopes, and the sea lay before them. But they
occupied only the ground on which they stood, and their passage
brought them no nearer to the end they desired. The fact that the
army had made a passage right through the mountains was regarded
as a triumph in Rome, and believing that the end was near fresh
reinforcements were sent to Muro to enable him to finish the campaign
rapidly. His reports, however, to the senate left no doubt in the
minds of those who read them as to the situation.

"We are fighting," he said, "an enemy who will not allow us to
strike him. Three months have passed since I entered the mountains,
and yet I cannot say that I am nearer the end than I was when I
began. I have lost three thousand men, of whom half are spearmen.
The gladiators have suffered but slightly, for they always burst
down in overwhelming numbers, slay, and retire. At least twenty
times my camps have been attacked; and although I have lost but
one convoy, the difficulty and labour of victualling the troops is
enormous. If the gladiators would but take to the plain we should
annihilate them in the first battle. As it is, it is they who select
the ground for action, and not we. The troops are utterly worn out
and well nigh mutinous at what they consider a hopeless task. You
ask me what had best be done. My own opinion is, that we should
retire from the mountains and establish the troops in camps near
their foot, so as to restrain the gladiators from making excursions,
and to fall upon them when hunger drives them to leave the mountains.
Treachery may then do what force has failed in.

"Among such a body there must be traitors, and when the war
is apparently ended we may, through shepherds or goatherds, open
communication with them. My great fear is, and always has been,
that as we gradually press them south they may pour down on to one
of the villages on the straits, seize the boats, cross to Sicily,
and take refuge in the mountains there, where they could laugh at
our efforts to pursue them. I should advise that it should be announced
publicly that our army, having traversed the whole mountains of
Bruttium without meeting with a foe, the objects of the expedition
have been attained, and the enemy may now be considered as a mere
mass of fugitives, whom it would be impossible to root out as
long as they take refuge among their fastnesses; but that for the
present the army will be placed in a cordon of camps round the
foot of the mountains, by which means the fugitives will be starved
into surrender. If this course is not approved I have but one other
to suggest, namely, that the whole of the population of southern
Italy should be ordered to take part in the total destruction of
the forests of Bruttium. Every tree must be cut down to the level
of the soil; every trunk and branch be burnt by fire. The task
would be a tremendous one. The loss to the country around by the
destruction of the forests, wherein their flocks of sheep and goats
and their herds of swine find sustenance and shelter in winter,
would be enormous, but thus, and thus alone, I am assured, can
these bands of gladiators be rooted out."

Muro's advice was taken, and the exulting gladiators beheld the
troops descending from the mountains to the plains below. Their
own loss had not exceeded three hundred men, and their shouts of
triumph rose high in the woods, and reached the ears of the Romans
retiring sullenly down the slopes. In a few days the plan of the
Romans became apparent. The camp in the pass above Cosenza was
still strongly held, four well fortified camps were established in
the plains on either side of the hills, and Muro himself took up
his post at Rhegium, where two thousand legionaries were posted.
The gladiators again broke up into bands, Beric returning to his
former encampment, to the delight of Aemilia.

"You must not suppose that our troubles are over, Aemilia," he
said. "We have indeed beaten them on our own ground, but we shall
now have to fight against famine. The wild animals have already
become scarce. You may be sure that the villagers will be allowed to
send no more flocks or herds up the hills to pasture, and before
long it will be necessary to make raids for food. You will see
that, emboldened by their successes, the men will become rash, and
may be cut off and defeated. As for us there is no fear; as long
as we can pay for provisions we shall be able to obtain them, for
although there may be difficulty in obtaining regular supplies,
now that the troops are at Rhegium, all these upland farmers and
villagers will continue to deal with us, knowing that if they do
not we shall take what we need without payment and perhaps burn
their houses over their heads."

It was not long, indeed, before Beric's predictions were verified.
As soon as the provisions became scarce the bands on the other
side of the mountains recommenced their forays on the villagers,
but from the Roman camps parties of soldiers were sent off after
nightfall to the upper villages, and the marauders were several
times surprised and almost exterminated.

"We must be more and more careful," Beric said to Aemilia when he
heard of one of these disasters. "The prisoners the Romans take will
under torture tell all they know, and it will not be long before
the Romans ascertain the general position of our encampment. The
force will dwindle rapidly. In the last two months they have lost
well nigh as many men as in the campaign in the mountains. More
than that, I have seen several of the leaders, who told me they
had determined, seeing that starvation was approaching them here,
to endeavour to pass between the Roman camps with their bands, and
regain the mountains beyond Cosenza, so as to establish themselves
far north; and indeed I cannot blame them. But their retreat adds
to our danger. So long as they roamed the eastern hills there was
no danger of a Roman force surprising us, but when they have gone
some of the captives may be forced to lead the Romans across the
hills to our neighbourhood. Boduoc is vigilant and his scouts are
scattered far round the camp, and at the worst we may have to carry
out my plan of crossing to Sicily. At any rate he has my orders
what to do in case of a sudden surprise. If I am absent, knowing
every foot of the wood now, he will at once make his way north,
leaving it to me to rejoin him as I best can."

But upon one thing Beric had not reckoned. So long as the gladiators
were in force among the mountains the country people on the slopes
above the straits were glad enough to purchase their safety by
silence. But as they heard of one band after another being crushed
by the Romans, and learned that parties from the various camps
had penetrated far into the hills without meeting with a single
opponent, their fear of the gladiators decreased. There were two
thousand legionaries at Rhegium. These could crush the band that
remained somewhere about the crest of the hills with ease, and
they need no longer fear their vengeance. The Roman general would
surely pay a great reward for information that would lead to
his being able to deal a final blow to the gladiators. The farmer
with whom Aemilia lodged had no such thought. He had earned in the
last eight months as much as his farm had brought him in the three
best years since he inherited it. He found these terrible outlaws
gentle and pleasant, ready to lend a hand on the farm if needful,
and delighted to play with his children. As to their chief, he was
a source of never ending wonder to him. Gladiators were, according
to his idea, fierce and savage men, barbarians who were good for
nothing but to kill each other, while this tall man bore himself
like a Roman of high rank, conversed in pure Latin, and could even
read and write. Aemilia, too, had become a great favourite in the
house. The farmer's wife wondered at seeing one, with two slaves
to wait upon her, active and busy, interested in all that went on,
and eager to learn every detail of the housework.

"I could manage a Roman household, Beric," she said. "I did so
indeed all the time we were in Rome; but we may have to live in a
hut, and I must know how to manage and cook for you there."

In Rhegium life was more cheerful than usual. Many of the upper
class of Rome, who shrank from the festivities of the court of Nero
and yet dared not withdraw altogether from Rome, had their country
estates and villas along the coasts, where they could for a time
enjoy freedom and live according to their tastes. Berenice had
joined Pollio three weeks before, when she found that he was likely
to remain stationed at Rhegium for some time. They lived with Muro
in a villa a short distance from the town, and looking over the
straits.

"I should feel perfectly happy here, Pollio," Berenice said one
evening as she walked to and fro on the terrace with him, looking
at the water in which the moonlight was reflected, bringing up into
view the boats rowing here and there with pleasure parties with
music and lanterns, "if it were not for the thought of Beric. It
is curious that he should be mixed up with both our lives. He was
my playmate as a boy; he saved me at the massacre of Camalodunum,
and restored me to my father. When we left Britain he was fighting
against Suetonius, and we expected when we left that the news of
his defeat and death would reach Rome before us. At Rome we heard
but vague rumours that Suetonius had not yet overcome the final
resistance of the Britons, and glad we were when Petronius was sent
out to take his place, and we heard that gentler measures were to
be used towards the Britons.

"Then, after a time, when we were in Syria, came the news that
Suetonius had returned, bringing with him Beric, the British chief,
with twenty of his followers, and my father at once wrote to the
emperor praying him that clemency might be extended to him for
his kind action in saving my life. Then when you came out to Syria
Beric's name again came up. You had journeyed with him from Britain
to Rome, and he had become your friend. Then a few months afterwards
a newcomer from Rome brought us the story of how your cousin Ennia,
having turned Christian, had been condemned to the lions; how a
British gladiator named Beric had sprung into the arena and craved
to fight the lion; how Nero had cruelly ordered him to do so unarmed;
and how he had, as it seemed by a miracle, overcome the lion and
bound him by strips torn from his mantle. Then again we learned
from one who came from Nero's court that Beric stood high in favour
with Caesar, that he was always about his person, and that rumours
said he kept guard over him at night.

"Then again, when we returned to Rome, my father was at once ordered
to take command of an expedition against some revolted gladiators,
among whom were, it was said, the British captives who had created
a disturbance in Nero's palace, well nigh killed the emperor,
and after slaying many of the Praetorians, escaped. After you and
my father had left me at the house of my uncle Lucius I made many
inquiries, and found that Beric had doubtless escaped with the
other Britons, as he had never been seen in the palace that night.
I heard too that it had been whispered by some of those who were
present at the supper, that the fault had not been his. He had
been betrothed to your cousin Aemilia, and Nero, urged thereto by
Rufinus, a disappointed suitor, ordered Beric to bring her to the
orgy. Upon his refusal Rufinus attacked him, and Beric slew him
by dashing his head against a marble pillar. Then Nero called upon
the Praetorians, and the Britons ran in to the aid of their chief,
and, defeating the Praetorians, escaped. It was the same night that
your uncle died and Aemilia was missing. It may be that she fled
with Beric, knowing that she would be sacrificed to the fury of Nero.
Is it not strange, Pollio, that this Briton should be so mixed up
in both our lives?"

"It is indeed, Berenice. There is no one to whom I owe so much.
First I owe your life to him, then I owe that of Ennia, my cousin;
for although she died afterwards, it was in her father's house,
and not a terrible and disgraceful death in the arena. And now we
have been fighting against him for months, and though of course
we made the best of matters, there is no doubt that we had all the
worst of it. We had twelve thousand men against a thousand, and
yet Beric kept us at bay and inflicted some terrible blows upon
us, for we lost a third of our number. After the first battle there
was no longer any doubt that Beric was the leader of our opponents.
Even had we not heard them shout his name as they attacked us, we
who had fought against him in Britain would have recognized that
he was again our opponent; for he used the same tactics among the
mountains that he had done in the swamps. We know from prisoners
we have taken since that he was unharmed in the struggle with us,
and certainly neither he nor any of his Britons have been among
the raiding bands whom we have surprised and destroyed. Indeed the
Britons never joined in any of the attacks upon the country people
before we came hither. I have questioned many of the sufferers by
their depredations, and none of them had seen among the plunderers
any tall men with light hair. The only time that they have been seen
on the plains was a fortnight before we landed, when they entered
Castanium and carried off all the arms. The Britons were among that
party, and a Briton commanded it; but from the description it was
not Beric, but was, I think, his principal follower, a man with a
British name which I forget."

"Was it Boduoc?" Berenice asked. "I have often heard him speak of
a friend of his with such a name, and indeed he came once or twice
to see him when he was with us."

"That was the name--Boduoc," Pollio said. "They behaved with the
greatest gentleness, injuring no one and taking nothing, neither
jewels, nor ornaments, nor garments, but departing quietly after
taking possession of all the weapons in the town.

"Your father reported the fact to Rome, bringing into prominence
the fact that this was the first time the Britons had ever descended
from the mountains, and that the inhabitants of Castanium were filled
with gratitude and admiration for the treatment they received. Last
week he wrote to Rome saying that so far as he could learn all the
bands that had not been destroyed had gone north, save one composed
of Britons and Gauls, about fourscore in number, commanded by the
Briton Beric, and suggested that as months might pass before they
could be captured, he should be authorized to treat with them,
and to offer them full pardon if they would lay down their arms,
especially as they had taken no part whatever in the misdeeds of
the other gladiators, and had injured no one either in person or
property. I know that it was a great disappointment to him, as well
as to us, when the letter came yesterday saying that they were to
be hunted down and destroyed, and that all not killed in fighting
were to be crucified. But we had better go in, Berenice, the dew
is beginning to fall."

They entered the villa. The general was alone in the atrium.

"Is anything the matter, father?" Berenice asked, as she saw that
he looked disturbed.

"Yes, Berenice, I have received news that as a Roman general ought
to delight me, but which, as Caius Muro, your father and the father
in law of Pollio, vexes me greatly."

"What is it, father?"

"A man arrived half an hour since saying that he had news of
importance to communicate. He was brought in here. He told me he
was a cultivator whose farm lay far up on the hillside. For upwards
of a year he had, in fear of his life, as he said, been compelled
to sell food to the bandits in the mountains. He acknowledged
that he had been well paid, and that he had no cause of complaint
against them; but he now professed a desire to do service to Rome,
for which he evidently expected a handsome reward. I told him I
could not bargain with him. He had aided the enemies of Rome, and
by his own account his life was forfeited, seeing that for a year
he had been trafficking with them, instead of doing his duty and
reporting their first visit to the authorities here.

"He said that he was not alone, and that most of the farmers high
up on the hills had been compelled to do the same, and had kept
silence, knowing that the brigands would have burned their houses
and slain their wives and families had they reported aught against
them to the authorities, and that, indeed, they were altogether
ignorant of the position of the camp of the outlaws beyond the
fact that it was somewhere among the mountains. 'What, then, have
you to report?' I said angrily, for I hate to have to do with
traitors. 'It is this,' he said: 'for some months there has been
living a lady, supposed to be the wife of the chief of the outlaws,
at a farm next to mine, belonging to one Cornelius. The chief often
visits her and stays there; five of his followers live in an out
house adjoining the farm, and one of these is always on guard night
and day.

"'The chief himself is a very tall young man, and is called Beric
by his followers. Four of them are also of his race, tall and very
fair like him. There is also a youth who lives in the house. He
belongs to the band, but appears to be a native of Rome. He sometimes
comes down and makes purchases in Rhegium. The house cannot be
approached from below without an alarm being given, owing to the
strictness of the watch; but I could lead a body of troops high
up above it, so as to come down upon the rear of the house and cut
off all escape when another band comes up from below.' I told him
that his information was valuable, and that he was to come here
to-morrow evening at eight o'clock to lead a party of light armed
troops up into the hills."

"And you will send them, father?" Berenice broke in; "surely you
will not take advantage of this treachery."

"I have no choice but to do so," the general said gravely. "As
a father I would give my right hand to save the man who preserved
your life; as a Roman soldier my duty is to capture the outlaw,
Beric, by any means possible. Pollio will tell you the same."

Berenice looked at her husband, who stood in consternation and
grief at the news. "Do you say this too, Pollio?"

Pollio did not answer, but the general spoke for him. "He can say
nothing else, Berenice. To a Roman soldier duty is everything, and
were he ordered to arrest his own father and lead him to execution
he could not hesitate."

"But I am not a soldier--" Berenice began passionately.

The general held up his hand suddenly. "Hush, Berenice, not a word
farther! I am a Roman general. If you say one word that would clash
with my duty I should order you to your chamber and place a soldier
there on guard over you. Now I will leave you with your husband;"
and the general left the room.

"What do you say, Pollio? Will you suffer this man, who saved your
wife, who risked his life for your cousin, and is, as it seems,
your cousin by marriage, to be foully captured and crucified?"

"I am a soldier, Berenice; do not tempt me to break my duty. You
heard what your father said."

Berenice stamped her foot. "Does your duty go so far, Pollio, that
like my father you would place a guard at my door if I said aught
that would seem to run counter to your duty?"

"Not at all, Berenice," he said with a smile; "say aught you like.
I hear as a husband but not as a soldier."

"Well, that is something," Berenice said, mollified. "Well, Pollio,
if you will not warn Beric of his danger I will do so. Have I your
permission to act as I choose?"

"My full permission, dear. Do as you like; act as you choose; you
have beforehand my approval. If you fail and harm comes of it I
will stand by you and share your punishment; but tell me nothing
of what you would do beforehand. I trust you wholly, but for my
sake, if not for your own, be not rash. Remember, if by any means
it becomes known that you aided Beric to escape, both our lives
are surely forfeited."

"Thank you, Pollio," Berenice said, throwing her arms round his
neck, "that is spoken like my husband. You shall know nothing, and
I will save Beric."



CHAPTER XXI: OLD FRIENDS


Beric and Aemilia were sitting on the following day in the shade
in front of the house, where Porus had erected a verandah of boughs
to keep off the sun, when they observed a female peasant and an
elderly man ascending the hill. They were still some distance down,
and the man spoke to one of the farm men who was on his way down
the hill.

"They are coming this way," Aemilia said; "they have passed the
point where the paths fork. She seems to find that basket she is
carrying heavy, and no wonder, for it is a steep climb under the
midday sun."

Stopping once or twice to get breath the two peasants approached.

"She is a good looking girl, Beric," Aemilia said.

"Our host has two or three nieces down in the town," Beric replied;
"I expect it is one of them. Yes, she is certainly pretty, and not
so browned and sunburnt as most of these peasant girls are."

As they came close the girl stopped and looked at the house, and
then, instead of going to the entrance, left her companion and
walked across to the verandah. A smile came across her face.

"Shall I tell you your fortune?" she said abruptly to Aemilia.

"It is told," Aemilia said; "to be a farmer's wife. But what do
you know of fortunes?"

"I can tell you the past if not the future," the young woman said,
setting down her basket. "May I do so?"

"You are a strange girl," Aemilia said, "but tell me what you can."

"I can see an amphitheatre," the girl went on, "a great one, greater
than that across at Messina, and it is crowded with people. In the
front row there sits a man past middle age and a lady and a girl.
In the centre of the arena is a young girl in white."

"Hush, hush!" Aemilia cried, leaping to her feet, "say no more.
You know me, though how I cannot guess."

"I see another scene," the girl went on without heeding her; "it
is a hut. It must belong to some savage people. It is quite unlike
our cottages. There is an old woman there and a man and a young
girl. The old woman does not speak to them; she does not seem of
the same race; the other two are Romans. The mat at the door is
pushed aside and there enters a tall youth. Not so tall as this
man, not so strong; and yet like him, just as a boy might be to a
man.

"The girl jumps up and exclaims 'Beric.'"

Beric had risen to his feet also now. "Is it possible," he cried,
"that as the boy has grown into the man, so has the girl grown into
--" and he stopped.

"Into a young woman, Beric. Yes, don't you remember me now?"

"It is Berenice!" he exclaimed.

"It is indeed, Beric, the child you saved from death. And this is
your wife Aemilia, the daughter of Norbanus, who is the uncle of
my husband Pollio. And do you not know who that is standing there?"

"Why, surely it is my tutor and friend Nepo;" and running towards
him he embraced him with heartiness and then led him to the verandah,
where Berenice was talking with Aemilia.

"But why are you thus disguised, and how did you know that Aemilia
and I were here?"

"We have come to warn you, Beric. You have been betrayed, and tonight
there will be troops ranged along above the house to cut off your
retreat, and a company of soldiers will advance from below straight
upon the house. My father told me, I think, in order that I might
save you, though as a Roman general he could do nought save his duty.
Pollio, too, though he said he would willingly give his sanction,
knows not that I have come hither. He pretended that his duty as a
soldier prevented him from warning you, though I believe that had
not I been with him his friendship and gratitude would have been
too much for his duty. However, I was with him, and he gave me
permission to come; though, mind you, I should have come whether
he gave me permission or not. You did not ask permission of anyone
when you saved me, and even if Pollio had threatened to divorce me
if I disobeyed him I would have come; but as I needed a disguise,
and did not like to trust any of the slaves, I took Nepo into my
confidence, and he managed everything."

"We are, indeed, grateful to you," Aemilia cried, embracing Berenice
warmly. "It was brave of you indeed to come."

"It requires less bravery to come up here with a message, Aemilia,
than to run away from Rome with an outlaw who had just bearded
Caesar in his palace."

"I did not do that, Berenice. It was not because I was unwilling,
but because Beric would not take me with him. I stayed for months in
Rome, hidden in the Catacombs with the Christians, until Beric sent
for me to join him here; but come inside and take some refreshment,
for you must be weary indeed with your long walk up the hill."

"No one else must see me," Berenice said. "There may be inquiries
when they come tonight and find that you are gone, and I would not
that any should see me."

"No one will see you. The room is situated at the back of the
house, and though I shall take the slaves with us in our flight,
they shall not catch even a glimpse of your face. I will set them
some needlework to do."

They were soon seated in Aemilia's room, and Beric brought in fruit
and wine, goat's milk, cheese, and bread.

"There is no hurry for me to return," Berenice said. "The slaves
believe that I have gone out to pay some visits, and I do not wish
to get back until after sunset. There is so much for Beric to tell
us.

"You do not know, Beric, how often Nepo and I have talked about it,
and how we have longed to see you, and I believe that what drew me
first to Pollio was his praises of you. But before you begin there
is one thing I must tell you. My father has received private news
from Rome; there is a report there that the legions have proclaimed
Galba emperor, and that ere long he will be in Rome. At present it
is but a rumour, and of course at court all profess to disbelieve
it, and Nero openly scoffs at the pretensions of Galba; but the
friend who wrote to my father says that he believes it true. Now
my father is a great friend of Galba's. They were much together
as young men, and served together both in Gaul and Syria; and he
feels sure that if Galba comes to the throne he will be able to
obtain a pardon for you and those with you, since you have done no
one harm save when attacked. He attempted to procure it from Nero,
but altogether without success; with Galba it will be different,
especially as a new emperor generally begins his reign by acts of
clemency. Now, as I have given you my news, Beric, do you tell us,
while we are eating the fruit, everything that has happened to you
since I last saw you at that hut."

"So much has happened that it will be impossible to tell you all,
Berenice; but I will give you the outline of it. The principal
thing of all is, that I have taken a wife."

Berenice pouted. "It is lucky for you, Aemilia, that I was not at
Rome when Beric arrived, for I had as a girl always determined that
I should some day marry him and become a British chieftainess. He
had not seen you then except at Massilia, and I should have had
him all to myself at Rome, for you did not get there, Pollio tells
me, until months later."

Aemilia laughed. "I should not have entered the lists against you,
Berenice. It was not until after he saved Ennia from the lion in
the arena that I came to love him."

"Well, I must put up with Pollio," Berenice said. "He is your
cousin, and I have nothing to say against him as a husband; he is
kind and indulgent, and a brave soldier, and all one could want;
but he is not a hero like Beric."

Beric laughed. "You should have said a giant, Berenice, which
would have been much nearer the truth. And now I will tell you my
story;" and during the next two hours he gave her a sketch of all
that had passed since they had last parted in Britain.

"There, Cneius Nepo," Berenice said when he had finished. "You
never thought for a moment that your pupil, who used to pore with
you over those parchments, till I often wished I could throw them
in the fire when I wanted him to play with me, was to go through
such adventures--to match himself first against Suetonius, and then
against my father, both times with honour; to be Nero's bodyguard;
to say nothing of fighting in the arena, and getting up a revolt
in the palace of Caesar."

"I expected great things of him," Nepo said; "but not like these.
I fancied he would become a great chief among the British, and that
he might perhaps induce them to adopt something of our civilization.
I had fancied him as a wise ruler; and, seeing how fond he was of
the exercise of arms, I had thought long before the insurrection
broke out that some day he might lead his countrymen to battle
against us, and that, benefiting by his study of Caesar and other
military writers, he would give far more trouble to the Romans than
even Caractacus had done. But assuredly I never dreamt of him as
fighting a lion barehanded in a Roman arena in defence of a Roman
girl. As to marriages, I own that the thought crossed my mind that
the union of a great British chief with the daughter of a Roman of
rank like your father would be an augury of peace, and might lead
to better relations between the two countries."

"That dream must be given up," Berenice said seriously, "there are
two obstacles. But I have no doubt Aemilia would make quite as good
a chieftainess as I should have done. Some day, Aemilia, if you
return to Britain with Beric, as I hope you will do, and Pollio
becomes a commander of a legion, I will get him to apply for
service there. It is cold and foggy; but wood is a good deal more
plentiful and cheaper than it is at Rome, and with good fires one
can exist anywhere. And now it is time for us to be going. We will
take another path in returning down the hills, so that any one who
noticed us coming up will not see us as we descend. Nepo's toga and
my stola are hidden in a grove just outside the town, and it will
be dusk by the time we arrive there. Kiss me, Aemilia; I am glad
that I know you, for I have heard much of you from Pollio. I am
glad that Beric has chosen so well. Goodbye, Beric; I hope we may
meet again before long, and that without danger to any of us. You
may salute me if Aemilia does not object--I told Pollio I should
permit it;" and she laughingly lifted up her face to him. "He never
used to kiss me when I was a child," she said to Aemilia. "I always
thought it very unkind, and was greatly discontented at it. Now,
Nepo, let us be going."

Beric and his wife stood watching them until they were far down
the hill. "She makes light of it," Beric said; "but it is no common
risk she has run. Nero can punish women as well as men, and were it
to come to his ears that she has enabled me to escape his vengeance,
even the influence of her father might not avail to save her."

"I shall remember her always in my prayers," Aemilia said earnestly,
"and pray that she too may some day come to know the truth."

Beric did not answer. Aemilia had explained to him all that she knew
of her religion, but while admitting the beauty of its teaching,
and the loftiness of its morals, he had not yet been able to bring
himself to believe the great facts upon which it was based.

"We must be moving," he said, and summoned Philo, who had been much
surprised at Beric's being so long in conversation with strangers.

"Send Porus to me," he said, "and bid Cornelius also come here."

The two men came round to the verandah together. "We are betrayed,
Porus," he said, "and the Romans will be here this evening."

Porus grasped the handle of his dagger and looked menacingly at
the farmer. "Our good friend has nought to do with it, Porus; it
is some one from one of the other farms who has taken down the news
to Rhegium. Do you order the others to be in readiness to start
for the camp. But first strip down the hangings of our room, roll
them and the mats and all else in seven bundles, with all my wife's
clothing and belongings."

"We need leave little behind. We can take everything," Porus said.
"The six of us can carry well nigh as much as the same number of
horses, and Philo can take something. I will see about it immediately."

"Now, Cornelius," Beric went on when Porus had left, "you must
prepare your story, and see that your men and the rest of the
household stick to it. You will be sharply questioned. You have
only the truth to say, namely, that some of my band came down here
and threatened to burn your house and slay all in it unless you
agreed to sell us what things we required; that, seeing no other
way of preserving your lives, you agreed to do so. After a time
a young woman--do not say lady--came with two attendants, and
you were forced to provide her with a room; and as five men were
placed here constantly, you still dared give no information to the
authorities, because a watch was also set on you, and your family
would have been slain long before any troops could arrive here.
What you will be most closely questioned about is as to why we all
left you today. They will ask you if any one has been here. You
saw no one, did you?"

"No, my lord. I heard voices in your room, but it was no business
of mine who was with you."

"That is good," Beric said. "That is what you must say. You know
someone did come because you heard voices; but you saw nobody
either coming or going, and know not how many of them there were,
nor what was their age. You only know that I summoned you suddenly,
and told you I had been betrayed, and that the Romans would soon
be coming in search of me, and therefore I was obliged to take to
the mountains. But go first and inquire among the household, and
see if any of them noticed persons coming here."

"One of the men says that he saw an old peasant with a girl who
asked which was my farm."

"Then that man must go with us to the mountains. He shall return
safe and unharmed in a few days. The Romans must not know of this.
This is the one point on which you must be silent; on all others
speak freely. It is important to me that it should not be known
whether it was man or woman, old or young, who warned me.

"I do not threaten you. I know that you are true and honest; but,
to ensure silence among your household, tell them that I shall
certainly find out if the Roman soldiers learn here that it was
an old man and a girl who visited me, and that I will take dire
vengeance on whomsoever tells this to the Romans. Discharge your
man before we leave with him, so that you may say truly that those
the Romans find here are your whole household, and maintain that
not one of them saw who it was who came to me today."

"I can promise that, my lord. You and the Lady Aemilia have been
kind and good to us, and my wife, the female slave, and the hired
men would do anything for you. As for the children, they were not
present when Balbus said that he had been questioned by the old
man, and can tell nought, however closely they may be questioned,
save that Balbus was here and has gone."

"I had not thought of that," Beric said. "Better, then, tell the
soldiers the truth: you had two serving men, but we have carried
one away with us."

In half an hour all was ready for a start. The two female slaves,
although attached to their mistress, were terrified at the thoughts
of going away among the mountains, although Aemilia assured them
that no harm could happen to them there. Then, with a hearty adieu
to the farmer and his wife, Beric and his companions shouldered the
loads, and with Balbus, Philo, Aemilia, and the two female slaves
made their way up the mountain. As soon as they started, Beric gave
orders to Philo to go on with all speed to the camp, and to tell
Boduoc of the coming of Aemilia, and bid him order the men at
once to prepare a bower at some short distance from their camp.
Accordingly when the party arrived great fires were blazing, and
the outlaws received Aemilia with shouts of welcome.

"I thank you all," Beric said, "for my wife and myself. She knows
that in no place could she be so safe as here, guarded by the brave
men who have so faithfully followed her husband."

So heartily had the men laboured that in the hour and a half that
had elapsed since Philo had arrived a large hut had been erected a
hundred yards from the camp, with a small bower beside it for the
use of the female slaves. A great bonfire burnt in front, and the
interior was lighted by torches of resinous wood.

"Thanks, my friends," Beric said. "You have indeed built us a leafy
palace. I need not exhort the guards to be watchful tonight, for
it may be that the traitor who will guide the Romans to the house
where we have been stopping may know something of the mountains,
and guessing the direction of our camp may attempt to lead them to
it. Therefore, Boduoc, let the outposts be thrown out farther than
usual, and let some be placed fully three miles from here, in all
the ravines by which it is likely the enemy might make their way
hither."

Three days later Philo went down to learn what had passed. He was
ordered not to approach the house, as some soldiers might have been
left there to seize upon any one who came down, but to remain at
a distance until he saw the farmer or one of his household at work
in the fields. He brought back news that the Romans had arrived on
the night they had left, had searched the house and country round,
had closely questioned all there, even to the children, and had
carried off the farmer and his man. These had returned the next
evening. They had been questioned by the general, who had admonished
the farmer severely on his failure to report the presence of the
outlaws at whatever risk to his family and property; but on their
taking an oath that they were unable to give any information
whatever, either as to the outlaws' retreat or the persons who had
brought up the news of the intended attack by the Romans, they were
released.

Balbus was then sent back to the farm with presents for all there,
and it was agreed that the camp should be broken up. The general
would, in compliance with the orders of Nero, make fresh efforts to
hunt down the band; and as he knew now the neighbourhood in which
they were, and treachery might again betray the spot, it was better
to choose some other locality; there was, too, no longer any occasion
for them to keep together. They had the mountains to themselves
now, and although the wild animals had been considerably diminished,
there were still goats in the upper ranges, and swine and wild
boar in the thickest parts of the forests. It was also advisable
to know what was passing elsewhere, and to have warning of the
approach of any body of troops from the camps round it. Accordingly,
while the Britons remained with Beric, who took up his quarters
in the forest at the foot of one of the loftiest crags, whence a
view could be obtained of the hills from Rhegium to Cosenza, the
rest were broken up into parties of five. Signals were arranged by
which by smoke during day or fire at night warning could be given
of the approach of an enemy, and also whether it was a mere scouting
party or a strong column.

For another three months they lived among the hills. Their life
was rougher than it had been, for they had now to subsist entirely
upon the spoils of the chase, and bread made of ground acorns and
beechnuts, mixed with a very small portion of flour. The latter was
obtained from lonely cottages, for Beric insisted that no villages
should be entered.

"There may be soldiers in every hamlet on the hills, and I would
have no risk run of death or capture. Did a few of us fall into
their hands it would encourage them to continue their blockade, but
as time goes on, and it is found that their presence is entirely
fruitless, they may be recalled."

For the first few weeks, indeed, after the failure of the attempt
to entrap Beric, parties were sent up into the hills from all the
camps, for as the remaining band of gladiators was known to number
under a hundred men, it would be no longer necessary for the assailants
to move as an army; but after marching hither and thither through
the forests without finding any signs of the fugitives the troops
returned to their camps, and a fortnight later the greater portion
of them were either transported to Sicily or sent north, a few
hundred men only remaining to watch for the reappearance of the
band. From time to time Philo went down to Rhegium to gather news
of what was passing. As the farmer had not been troubled since
the visit of the troopers, they renewed their relations with him,
except that they abstained from purchasing food of him lest he
should be again questioned. Nevertheless he occasionally sent up
by Philo a skin of wine as a present to Beric.

"So that I can swear that I have sold them nothing, and that they
have taken nothing, there is little chance of my ever being asked
if I made them a present," he said.

He was surprised one day by a visit from a Roman, who informed him
that he was secretary to the general, and whom, indeed, he had seen
when brought before him.

"Do you still hear aught of the brigands, Cornelius?" he asked.
The farmer was taken aback by this question.

"No harm is intended you," Nepo said. "The general may have reason
for desiring to communicate with the band, whose leader at one
time stayed in your house, and which is now the last remnant of the
gladiators among the hills. The search for them has been given up
as vain, and probably he will receive orders from Rome to withdraw
the troops altogether and to offer terms to the gladiators. At
present he cannot communicate with them, and he would be glad for
you to renew your connection with them, not to assist them by selling
them food or receiving them here, but that you should arrange some
means of communication with them."

"I might manage that," the farmer said. "It is true that once or
twice some of them have come down here. They have taken nothing,
and have come, I think, more to learn what is passing without than
for any other purpose; but it may be some time before they come
again."

"At any rate," Nepo said, "when they do come, do you arrange for
a signal, such, for instance, as lighting two fires on the crest
above there, with plenty of green wood, that would make a smoke which
would be seen for many miles away. This smoke will tell them that
there is a message for them from the general. I give you my word
as a Roman that no treachery is intended, and I myself, accompanied
perhaps by one officer, but no more, will bring it up here and be
in waiting to see their chief; so you see I should place myself
much more in his hands than he in mine."

It was but a few days before Beric received this message. It filled
him with hope, for remembering what Berenice had said about the
proclamation of Galba as emperor, it seemed to him that this life
as a fugitive might be approaching its end. For himself he was
perfectly happy. He and his Britons lived much as they had done at
home. It required hard work to keep the larder supplied, but this
only gave a greater zest to the chase. They sighed sometimes for
the cool skies of Britain, but in other respects they were perfectly
contented.

Since the soldiers had been withdrawn they had had no difficulty in
obtaining the two things they most required, flour and wine, and,
indeed, sometimes brought up sacks of grain and jars of honey,
from which they manufactured a sweet beer such as they had drunk
at home, and was to them far better than wine. Beric, perhaps, was
more anxious for a change than any of his followers. Aemilia seemed
perfectly happy, her spirits were as high now as when he had first
known her as a girl at Massilia. She was the life and soul of the
little band, and the Britons adored her; but Beric remembered that
she had been brought up in comfort and luxury, and longed to give
her similar surroundings. Although for luxuries he himself cared
nothing, he did sometimes feel an ardent desire again to associate
with men such as he had met at the house of Norbanus, to enjoy
long talks on literary and other subjects, and to discuss history
and philosophy.

"It is good," he said one day to Aemilia, "for a man who lives among
his fellows to have learned to enjoy study and to find in enlightened
conversation his chief pleasure, but if his lot is thrown far
from towns it were far better that he had known nothing of these
pleasures."

One morning Boduoc, who had gone up early to the summit of the
crag, brought down the news that he could make out two columns of
smoke rising from the hill over Rhegium.

"I hope to bring you back good news tomorrow, Aemilia," Beric said
as he at once prepared to start. "I may find Nepo at the farm when
I get there and may possibly be back tonight, but it is full six
hours' journey, and as there is no moon I can hardly travel after
sundown."

"I shall not expect you till tomorrow, Beric. It were best
to arrange that, and then I shall not be looking for you. Even if
Nepo is there when you arrive, you will want a long talk with him,
and it is likely that Pollio will be with him, so do not think of
starting back till the morning."

It was just noon when Beric reached the farm.

"You are just to the time," Cornelius said. "I received an order
at daybreak this morning to light the fires and to tell you if
you came that the general's secretary would be here at noon. See,
there are two figures coming up the hill now."

The moment he saw that they had passed the fork of the paths and
were really coming to the house Beric rushed down to meet them,
and as he approached saw that they were indeed Pollio and Nepo. He
and Pollio embraced each other affectionately.

"I am well pleased indeed," Pollio said, "that we meet here for
the first time, and that I did not encounter you in the forests.
By the gods, but you have grown into a veritable giant. Why, you
must overtop the tallest of your band."

"By an inch or two, Pollio. And you have altered somewhat too."

"The cares of matrimony age a man rapidly," Pollio said laughing,
"though doubtless they sit lightly on your huge shoulders. Why,
you could let my little cousin sit on your hand and hold her out
at arm's length. I always told her that she would need a masterful
husband to keep her in order, and truly she is well suited. And
now for my news, Beric. Nero is dead. The news arrived last night."

Beric uttered an exclamation of surprise. "How died he?" he asked.

"By his own hand. When the news came that other legions had followed
the example of those of Galba, all fell away from Nero, and the
Praetorians themselves, whom he had petted and spoilt, having no
inclination for a fight with Galba's legionaries, proclaimed the
latter emperor. Then Nero showed himself a craven, flying in disguise
to the house of Phaon. There he remained in hiding, weeping and
terrified, knowing that he must die, but afraid to kill himself.
He may well have thought then of how many he had compelled to die,
and how calmly and fearlessly they had opened their veins. It was
not until he heard the trampling of the horsemen sent to seize him
that he nerved himself, and even then could not strike, but placing
the point of a dagger against his breast, bade a slave drive it
home.

"The senate proclaimed Galba emperor two days before the death of
Nero; but as yet all is uncertain. There are other generals whose
legions may dispute this point. Syria and Egypt may choose Vespasian;
the Transalpine legions, who favoured Vindex, may pronounce for some
other. The Praetorians themselves, with the sailors of the fleet,
knowing that Galba has the reputation of being close fisted, may
choose someone who may flatter and feast them as Nero did. As yet
there is no saying what will be done, but at any rate your chief
enemy is dead. Muro bids me say that some months may yet elapse
before Galba comes to Rome; but that, as he has at present no
imperial master, and the senate will be far too busy wrangling and
persecuting the adherents of the man whom but a short time since
they declared to be a god, to trouble themselves about a handful
of gladiators in Bruttium, he will at once collect his troops at
Rhegium, and you will be entirely unmolested if you promise that
your band will in no way ill treat the people. I know that they
have not hitherto done so, and that they will not do so, but the
fact that he has a formal engagement with you to that effect will
justify him in withdrawing his troops. Indeed, he said that it
would be better, perhaps, that a document should be drawn up and
signed, in which you pledge yourself to peaceful courses, urging
that it was but the tyranny of Nero that forced you to become
fugitives, and craving that, as your band has never done any harm
to the people, an amnesty may be granted you. This document will
aid him when he meets Galba. He will not wait until the latter
comes to Rome, but will shortly ask permission from the senate to
quit his post for a time, all being quiet here, and will at once
take ship to Massilia and see Galba. The new emperor is not, he
says, a man bent on having his own way, but always leans on friends
for advice, and he feels sure that his representations will suffice
to obtain a free pardon for your band, and permission for them to
leave the mountains and go wheresoever they will, so that in that
case there will be nought to prevent you and your followers returning
to Britain."

"This is joyous news indeed, Pollio, and I cannot too warmly thank
the general for his kindness to me. As to Berenice--"

"There, there," Pollio said laughing, "let us hear nothing about
Berenice. She is a self willed woman, and I am not responsible for
her doings, and want to hear nothing more of them than she chooses
to tell me."

By this time they had reached the farmhouse, where a meal was
speedily prepared, and they sat talking together until evening,
when Pollio and his companion returned to Rhegium.

Another three months passed. There was now no lack of food among
the outlaws. They still hunted, but it was for amusement, buying
sheep and other animals from the villagers, together with all else
they required, the natives rejoicing in finding good customers
instead of dangerous neighbours among the hills.

At last the signal smokes again ascended, and Beric, taking Aemilia
with him, made his way to the farmhouse, where he learned that
Nepo had been there with a message that he desired to see Beric in
Rhegium. This was sufficient to show that Muro's mission had been
to some extent successful, and after resting for an hour or two at
the farmhouse they descended the hill. Beric had purchased suitable
garments to replace the goatskins which had for a long time
previously been worn by the outlaws, their rough work in the woods
having speedily reduced their garments to rags, and save that
men looked up and marvelled his size, he passed almost unnoticed
through the streets of Rhegium to the house of the general. Orders
had been given that he was to be admitted, for the sentries passed
him without question. As the slave at the door conducted them into
the atrium Muro advanced with outstretched hands.

"Welcome! thrice welcome, Beric! Had I not heard from Pollio how
you had changed, I should not have recognized in you the British
lad I parted with six years ago in Britain. And this is your wife?
Pollio, spare your cousin to me for a moment. I am glad to know
you, Aemilia. I never met your father, though I have often heard
of him as a noble Roman, and I know that his daughter is worthy of
being the wife of Beric, not only from what I have heard of you
from my son in law, but from your readiness to share the exile
and perils of your husband. I see that Berenice has greeted you as
if she knew you. A month since I should have said that that was
impossible," and a smile passed over his face, "but now I may admit
that it may have been. And now for my news. I have seen Galba, and
have strongly represented to him the whole facts of the case, and
I have, under his hand, a free pardon for yourself and all your
followers, who are permitted to go wheresoever they please, without
molestation from any. But more than that, I have represented to
him how useful it would be that the Britons of the east, where the
great rising against Rome took place, should be governed by one of
their own chiefs, who, having a knowledge of the might and power
of Rome, would, more than any other, be able to influence them in
remaining peaceful and adopting somewhat of our civilization. He
has, therefore, filled up an appointment creating you provincial
governor of that part of Britain lying north of the Thames as far
as the northern estuary, and bounded on the east by the region of
swamps--the land of the Trinobantes, the Iceni, and a portion of
the Brigantes--with full power over that country, and answerable
only to the propraetor himself. Moreover, he has written to him on
the subject, begging him to give you a free hand, and to support
you warmly against the minor Roman officials of the district. I
need not say that I answered for you fully, and pledged myself that
you would in all things be faithful to Rome, and would use your
influence to the utmost to reconcile the people to our rule."

Beric was for a time too overcome to be able to thank Muro for his
kindness.

"I have repaid in a small way the debt that I and Pollio owe you,"
he said. "The senate has not at present ratified the appointment,
but that is a mere form, and it will not be presented to them until
Galba arrives. They are eagerly looking for his coming to free
them from the excesses and tyranny of the Praetorian guard, led by
Nymphidius the prefect, who has himself been scheming to succeed
Nero, and they will ratify without question all that Galba may
request. In the meantime there need be no delay. We can charter
a ship to convey you and your British and Gaulish followers to
Massilia. Galba is already supreme there, and thence you can travel
as a Roman official of high rank. I will, of course, furnish you
with means to do so."

"In that respect I am still well provided," Beric said. "Nero,
with all his faults, was generous, and was, in addition to my
appointments, continually loading me with presents, which I could
not refuse. Even after paying for all that was necessary for my
band during the past year, I am a wealthy man, and have ample to
support Aemilia in luxury to the end of our lives."

"You will, of course, draw no pay until your arrival in Britain;
but after that your appointment will be ample. However, I shall
insist upon chartering the ship to convey you to Massilia."

The beacon fires were lighted again next morning, and an hour later
Beric met Boduoc, whom he had, on leaving, directed to follow with
the Britons, and to post himself near the crest of the hills. He
returned with him to the band, who were transported with delight
at hearing the news. Messengers were at once sent off to the party
under Gatho, and on the following day the whole band reassembled,
the joy of the Gauls being no less than that of the Britons.

"You will have to take me with you, Beric," Porus said. "I am fit
for nothing here save the arena. I have been away from Scythia
since I was a boy, and should find myself a stranger there."

"I will gladly take you, Porus, and will find you a wife among my
countrywomen. You have shared in my perils, and should share in
my good fortunes. You must all remain here among the hills till I
send you up word that the ship is in readiness. Boduoc will come
down with me, and will send up to the farm garments to replace
your sheepskins, for truly Rhegium would be in an uproar did you
descend in your present garb. Boduoc will bring you instructions
as to your coming down. It were best that you came after nightfall,
and in small parties, and went direct on board the ship which he
will point out to you. We do not wish to attract attention or to
cause a talk in the town, as the news would be carried to Rome, and
the senate might question the right of Muro to act upon a document
which they have not yet ratified. Therefore we wish it kept quiet
until the arrival of Galba at Rome."

A week later the whole party stood on the deck of a ship in the
port of Rhegium. Beric had bidden farewell to Muro at his house;
Pollio and Berenice accompanied him and Aemilia on board.

"I do not mean this as a farewell for ever, Beric," Pollio said.
"I foresee that we are going to have troubled times in Rome. Nero
was the last of his race, and no one now has greater right than his
fellows to be emperor. Now that they have once begun these military
insurrections, for the proclamation of Galba was nothing else, I
fear we shall have many more. The throne is open now to any ambitious
man who is strong enough to grasp it. Generals will no longer think
of defeating the enemies of their country and of ruling provinces.
As propraetors they will seek to gain the love and vote of their
soldiers; discipline will become relaxed, and the basest instead
of the noblest passions of the troops be appealed to. We may have
civil wars again, like those of Marius and Scylla, and Anthony and
Brutus. I hate the intrigues of Rome, and loathe the arts of the
demagogue, and to this our generals will descend. Therefore I shall
soon apply for service in Britain again. Muro approves, and when
I obtain an office there he will come out and build another villa,
and settle and end his days there.

"There is little chance of the troops in Britain dealing in intrigues.
They are too far away to make their voice heard, too few to impose
their will upon Rome. Therefore he agrees with me that there is more
chance of peace and contentment there than anywhere. The Britons
have given no trouble since the Iceni surrendered, and I look to
the time when we shall raise our towns there and live surrounded by
a contented people. You may visit Muro at his house in Camalodunum
once again, Beric."

"It will be a happy day for us when you come, Pollio, you and Berenice;
and glad indeed shall I be to have her noble father dwelling among
us. Whatever troubles there may be in other parts of Britain I
cannot say, but I think I can answer that in Eastern Britain there
will never again be a rising."

"They are throwing off the ropes," Pollio said; "we must go ashore.
May the gods keep and bless you both!"

"And may my God, who has almost become Beric's God, also bless you
and Berenice and Muro!" Aemilia said.

Ten minutes later the ship had left port, and was making her way
up the Straits of Messina. The weather was fair with a southerly
wind, running before which the ship coasted along inside the
mountainous isle of Sardinia, passed through the straits between
that and Corsica, then shaped its course for Massilia, where it
arrived without adventure. There was some surprise in the town at
the appearance of Beric and his followers, and they were escorted
by the guard at the port to the house of the chief magistrate. On
Beric's presenting to him his appointment, signed by Galba, and the
safe conduct for himself and his comrades, the magistrate invited
him and Aemilia to stay at his house. There were many officials to
whom Aemilia was known when she dwelt there with her father, and
for ten days they stayed in the city. The Gauls of Beric's party
proceeded to their various destinations on the day after they
landed, Beric making a present to each to enable them to defray the
expenses of their travel to their respective homes, and obtaining
a separate safe conduct for each from the chief magistrate. Bidding
adieu to their friends at Massilia the Britons started north.

While in the town Beric obtained for his twenty followers a dress
which was a mixture of that of the Britons and Romans, having the
trousers or leggings of the British and the short Roman tunic. All
were armed with sword, shield, and spear. Aemilia travelled in a
carriage; the two female slaves had been given their freedom and
left behind at Rhegium. Beric was handsomely attired in a dress
suitable to his rank, but, like his followers, wore the British
leggings. A horse was taken with them for him to ride when they
passed through towns, but generally it was led by Philo, and Beric
marched with his men. They took long journeys, for the men were
all eager to be home, and, inured as they were to fatigue, thought
nothing of doing each day double the distance that was regarded as
an ordinary day's journey.

At the towns through which they passed the people gazed with
surprise at Beric and his bodyguard, and warm sympathy was shown
by the Gauls for the Britons returning after their captivity in
Rome. On arriving at the northwesterly port of Gaul, Beric learned
that London, Verulamium, and Camalodunum had been rebuilt, and
that the propraetor had established himself in London as his chief
place of residence. Beric therefore hired a ship, which sailed
across the straits to the mouth of the Thames, ascended the river,
and four days after putting out anchored at London. Beric and his
followers were surprised at the change which had been effected in
the six years which had passed since they saw it a heap of ruins.
A temple of Diana had been erected on the highest point of ground.
Near this was the palace of the propraetor, and numerous villas
of the Roman officials were scattered on the slopes. A strong wall
surrounded the Roman quarter, beyond which clustered the houses of
the traders, already forming a place of considerable size.

Upon landing Beric proceeded, accompanied by Boduoc, to the palace
of the propraetor, to whom he presented Galba's letter especially
recommending him, and his own official appointment. Celsius, who
had succeeded Petronius as propraetor, had received Beric sitting;
but upon reading the document rose and greeted him cordially.

"I have heard much of you, Beric, since I came here," he said, "and
many have been the entreaties of your people to me that I would
write to Rome to pray Caesar to restore you to them. I did so write
to Nero, but received no reply; but my friends keep me acquainted
with what is passing there, and the story of your combat with the
lion in the arena, and of your heading a revolt in Nero's palace
reached me. As it was about the time of the latter event that
I wrote to Caesar, I wondered not that I received no answer to my
letter. After that I heard that you had been giving terrible trouble
in Bruttium to Caius Muro, and little dreamed that my next news of
you would be that Galba had appointed you Governor of the Eastern
Province."

"It was upon the recommendation and by the good offices of Muro,"
Beric said. "I had been brought up at his house at Camalodunum,
and had the good fortune to save his daughter's life at the sack
of that city. He knew that I had been driven by the conduct of Nero
into revolt, and that, even though in arms against Rome, I and my
band had injured and robbed no Roman man or woman. He represented
to Galba that, holding in high respect the power of Rome, and being
well regarded by my people here, I should, more than any stranger,
be able to persuade them of the madness of any further rising against
the imperial power, and to induce them to apply themselves to the
arts of agriculture, and to become, like the Gauls, a settled people
contented and prosperous.

"These arguments had weight with the emperor, who, as you see, has
been pleased to appoint me governor of the province that my people
occupied, together with that adjoining on the south, formerly belonging
to the Trinobantes, and on the north occupied by a portion of the
Brigantes."

"I think the emperor has done well, and I look for great results
from your appointment, Beric. I am convinced that it is the best
policy to content a conquered people by placing over them men of
their own race and tongue, instead of filling every post by strangers
who are ignorant of their ways and customs, and whose presence
and dress constantly remind them that they are governed by their
conquerors. Where do you think of establishing yourself--at
Camalodunum?"

"No. Camalodunum is a Roman town; the people would not so freely
come to me there to arbitrate in their disputes. I shall fix it
at Norwich, which lies midway between Camalodunum and the northern
boundary of the province, and through which, as I hear, one of your
roads has now been made."

After staying three days in London as the guest of Celsius, Beric
started for the seat of his government, attended by his own bodyguard
and a centurion with a company of Roman soldiers. The news that a
British governor had been appointed to the province spread rapidly,
and at Verulamium, where he stopped for two days, crowds of the
country people assembled and greeted him with shouts of welcome.
Beric assured them that he had been sent by the emperor Galba,
who desired to see peace and contentment reign in Britain, and had
therefore appointed a countryman of their own as governor of their
province, and that, though he should make Norwich the place of his
government, he should journey about throughout the country, listen
to all complaints and grievances, and administer justice against
offenders, whatever their rank and station.

Above all he exhorted them to tranquillity and obedience. "Rome
wishes you well," he said, "and would fain see you as contented
beneath her sway as is Gaul, and as are the other countries she
has conquered and occupied. We form part of the Roman Empire now,
that is as fixed and irrevocable as the rising and setting of the
sun. To struggle against Rome is as great a folly as for an infant
to wrestle with a giant. But once forming a part of the empire we
shall share in its greatness. Towns will rise over the land and
wealth increase, and all will benefit by the civilization that Rome
will bring to us."

He addressed similar speeches to the people at each halting
place, and was everywhere applauded, for the Trinobantes had felt
most heavily the power of Rome, and all thought of resistance had
faded out since the terrible slaughter that followed the defeat of
Boadicea.

Beric did not turn aside to enter Camalodunum, but kept his course
north. The news of his coming had preceded him, and the Iceni flocked
to meet him, and gave him an enthusiastic welcome. They were proud
of him as a national hero; he alone of their chiefs had maintained
resistance against the Romans, and his successes had obliterated
the humiliation of their great defeat. Great numbers of those who
came to meet him owed their lives to the refuge he had provided
for them in the swamps, and they considered that it was to his
influence they owed it, that after his capture they were allowed
to return to their native villages, and to take up their life there
unmolested by the Romans.

The members of his band, too, found relations and friends among
the crowd, and it added to their enthusiasm that Beric had brought
back with him every one of his companions in captivity. Aemilia was
much affected at the evidence of her husband's popularity, and at
the shouting crowd of great fair haired men and women who surged
round the escort, and who, when Beric took her by the hand and
bidding her stand up in the chariot presented her to the Iceni as
his wife, shouted for her almost as enthusiastically as they had
done for him.

"What a little insignificant thing these tall British matrons and
maids must think me, Beric!" she said.

"We all admire our opposites, Aemilia, that is how it was that you
came to fall in love with me; these people can have seen but few
Roman ladies, and doubtless there is not one among them who does
not think as I do, that with your dark hair and eyes, and the rich
colour of your cheek, you are the loveliest woman that they ever
saw."

"If they knew what you were saying they would lose all respect for
you, Beric," she said laughing and colouring. "We have been married
nearly a year, sir--a great deal too long for you to pay me
compliments."

"You must remember that you are in Britain now, Aemilia, and though
in Rome men regard themselves as the lords and masters of their
wives it is not so here, where women are looked upon as in every
way equal to men. I expect that you will quite change under the
influence of British air, and that though I am nominally governor
it is you who will rule. You will see that in a short time the
people will come to you with their petitions as readily as to me."

As soon as Beric established himself at Norwich he set about the
erection of a suitable abode; the funds were provided as was usual
from the treasury of the province--a certain sum from the taxes
raised being set aside to pay the share of the national tribute to
Rome, while the rest was devoted to the payment of officials, the
construction of roads, public works, and buildings. Long before
the house was finished a child was born to Beric, the event being
celebrated with great festivity by the Iceni, contrary to their
own customs, for among themselves a birth was regarded rather as
an occasion of mourning than of rejoicing.

Beric set vigorously to work to put the affairs of the province in
order; he appointed Boduoc to an important office under him, and
to act for him during his absences, which were at first frequent,
as he constantly travelled about the country holding courts,
redressing grievances, punishing and degrading officials who had
abused their position or ill treated the people, and appointing in
many cases natives in their places. Bitter complaints were made by
the dispossessed Roman officials to Celsius, who, however, declined
in any way to interfere, saying that Beric had received the fullest
powers from Galba, and that, moreover, did he interfere with him
it was clear that there would be another revolt of the Iceni.

Galba fell, and was succeeded by Otho, who was very shortly afterwards
followed by Vespasian, a just, though severe emperor. Complaints
were laid before him by powerful families, whose relations had
been dismissed by Beric, and the latter was ordered to furnish a
full explanation of his conduct. Beric replied by a long and full
report of his government. Vespasian was greatly struck alike by the
firmness with which Beric defended himself, and by the intelligence
and activity with which, as the report showed, he had conducted
the affairs of his province; he therefore issued an order for the
disaffected officials to return at once to Rome, confirmed Beric
in the powers granted him by Galba, and gave him full authority to
dismiss even the highest Roman officials in the district should he
see occasion to do so.

Roman towns and stations had sprung up all over the island, roads
and bridges opened the way for trade. Now that the tribal wars
had ceased, and the whole people had become welded into one, they
turned their attention more and more to agriculture. The forest
diminished rapidly in extent; the Roman plough took the place
of the rough hoe of the Briton, houses of brick and stone that of
rough huts; intermarriages became frequent. The Roman legionaries
became established as military colonists and took British wives.
The foreign traders and artisans, who formed the bulk of the
populations of the towns, did the same; and although this in the
end had the effect of diminishing the physical proportions of the
British, and lowering the lofty stature and size that had struck
the Romans on their landing with astonishment, it introduced many
characteristics hitherto wanting in the race, and aided in their
conversion from tribes of fierce warriors into a settled and
semi-civilized people.

Among the many who came to Britain, were some Christians who
sought homes in the distant island to escape the persecutions at
Rome. There was soon a colony of these settled at Norwich under the
protection of Aemilia. They brought with them an eloquent priest,
and in a short time Beric, already strongly inclined to the Christian
religion, openly accepted that faith, which spread rapidly throughout
his government. Porus was not long in finding a British wife, and
never regretted the day when he left the ludus of Scopus and joined
his fortunes to those of Beric. Philo embraced Christianity, and
became a priest of that church.

A year after Beric came to Britain he and Aemilia were delighted
by the arrival of Pollio and Berenice with Caius Muro. The former
had at the accession of Otho, with whom his family were connected,
obtained a civil appointment in Britain, and at Beric's request
Celsius appointed him to the control of the collection of taxes in
his district, there being constant complaints among the people of
the rapacity and unfairness of the Roman official occupying this
position. Pollio therefore established himself also at Norwich;
Muro, with whom came Cneius Nepo, taking up his residence there with
him, and as many other Roman families were there, neither Aemilia
nor Berenice ever regretted the loss of the society of Rome. Pollio
proved an excellent official, and ably seconded Beric in his efforts
to render the people contented.

Had Beric foreseen the time when the Romans would abandon Britain,
and leave it to the mercy of the savages of the north and of the
pirates of North Germany and Scandinavia, he would have seen that
the extinction of the martial qualities of the British would lead
to their ruin; but that Rome would decay and fall to pieces and
become the prey of barbarians, was a contingency beyond human ken,
and he and those who worked with him thought that the greatest
blessing they could bestow upon their country was to render it
a contented and prosperous province of the Roman Empire. This he
succeeded in doing in his own government, and when, full of years and
rich in the affection of his countrymen, he died, his son succeeded
him in the government, and for many generations the eastern division
of the island was governed by descendants of Beric the Briton.

THE END






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Beric the Briton, by G. A. Henty





Produced by Anne Folland, Charles Franks
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.




[Illustration: COOTS WAS DOWNED BY A FIERCE TACKLE ON THE PART OF
SHADDUCK.]



THE BOYS OF COLUMBIA HIGH ON THE GRIDIRON

OR

The Struggle for the Silver Cup

BY GRAHAM B. FORBES


AUTHOR OF "THE BOYS OF COLUMBIA HIGH," "THE BOYS OF COLUMBIA HIGH
ON THE DIAMOND," ETC.




CONTENTS


CHAPTER

I.     OUT FOR PRACTICE

II.    ON THE ROAD TO TOWN

III.   THE STRANGE HISTORY OF RALPH

IV.    TREACHERY IN THE CAMP

V.     THE SIGNAL PRACTICE

VI.    AT THE SINGING SCHOOL

VII.   THE ABDUCTION OF "BONES"

VIII.  THE LINE-UP WITH CLIFFORD

IX.    A HARD FOUGHT FIRST-HALF

X.     A SCENE NOT DOWN ON THE BILLS

XI.    CLIFFORD'S LAST HOPE

XII.   DR. SHADDUCK FEARS AN EPIDEMIC

XIII.  THE GREAT MARSH

XIV.   THE DANGERS OF THE MUCK HOLE

XV.    FRANK TURNS CHAUFFEUR

XVI.   AN UNWILLING PILOT

XVII.  A DESPERATE REMEDY

XVIII. MATCHING WITS

XIX.   AT THE END OF THE CIRCUIT

XX.    FRANK'S LUCK

XXI.   THE LIFTING OF THE CLOUD

XXII.  HOW BELLPORT BUCKED THE LINE

XXIII. WON BY FOUR INCHES

XXIV.  THE MESSAGE FROM TOKIO--CONCLUSION



THE BOYS OF COLUMBIA HIGH ON THE GRIDIRON




CHAPTER I

OUT FOR PRACTICE


"Oh, what a splendid kick!"

The yellow pigskin football went whizzing through the air, turning
over and over in its erratic flight.

"Wow! Look at old Sorreltop run, will you?"

"He's bound to get under it, too. That's going some, fellows! Oh,
shucks!"

"Ha! ha! a fumble and a muff, after all! That's too bad, after
such a great gallop. Now Clack's got the ball, and a clear field
ahead for a run! Go it, you wild broncho! Say, look there, will
you, Tony; Ralph West thinks he can tackle that flying tornado!"

"Will he? Maybe, maybe not, fellows!" called out the ever-skeptical
Jack Eastwick, as he watched the rapidly nearing figures. Jack
was on the regular team, but not playing that afternoon.

"There, he's done it! Wasn't that tackle a screamer, though? That
man West belongs with the regulars. He's too good for the scrub
team. Mark my words, when we go up against Clifford he'll be doing
duty with Columbia's eleven!"

"Bah!" sneered Tony Gilpin. "He's still only a greeny; never saw a
football till he came here last year. Bones Shadduck taught him
all he knows about the game. Take him away from his teacher, and
the little boy would be hopelessly foundered, and you know it,
too, Herman Hooker."

Herman was Columbia's "cheer captain." His sonorous voice aroused
more enthusiasm among the struggling athletes when the prospects
seemed dark and forbidding, than all other elements combined. As
soon as it boomed out over a hotly-contested field, every Columbia
fellow seemed to take on fresh confidence, and in many instances
that meant a new determination to win the victory.

Herman looked at the last speaker, and smiled broadly. It was well
known among the students of Columbia High School that Tony Gilpin
still entertained great hopes of holding his place on the regular
team; but his play was not up to the standard of the preceding
year, and dark hints had gone abroad that in all probability he
would be dropped, for "a dark horse."

As this latter must of necessity be taken from the scrub team, it
can be easily understood why Tony showed so much concern over the
playing of the newcomer, Ralph West.

"Why ain't you practicing with your team this P. M., instead of
loafing around here watching the scrub eleven do things." remarked
Charlie Scott, one of the group. "It can't be possible that a
seasoned veteran of two years' experience can pick up points from
a come-on?"

"I strained my leg a bit yesterday, and the coach advised me to
give it a rest for a day. When I tackle I'm apt to go at a man
without regard to consequences; and sometimes the jar is fierce,"
explained Tony, sneeringly.

"Well, if you can beat that work of Ralph West, you're going some,
now; take it from me, son," commented Herman, with fatherly
interest, and simply a desire to see the best man on the regular
team when the auspicious day dawned that lined Columbia's eleven
up against the warriors of Clifford.

Tony made no verbal reply, but his brow grew dark, as he once
again shot a look of hatred toward the player who had made that
brilliant flying tackle.

The big town of Columbia was situated on the Harrapin River, with
Clifford nearly four miles above, and the manufacturing town of
Bellport twice that distance down-stream.

Of course, as each of these bustling places boasted of a high
school, the consequent rivalries of the students had blossomed out
into a league. In various sports they were determined rivals, and
the summer just passed had witnessed a bitter fight between the
baseball clubs of the three towns, in which Columbia won out after
a fierce contest.

Among the Columbia students there were also strivings after
supremacy in many gymnastic feats, as well as between the several
classes, each of which was jealous of the others when it came to
giving spreads. Many of the deeply interesting happenings along
this line that marked the preceding Winter and Spring have been
chronicled in the first volume of this series, called: "The Boys
of Columbia High; or, The All-Around Rivals of the School."

With the coming of the season for outdoor sports, there was
baseball in the air from morning to night, in preparation for the
carnival of games mapped out for the schedule between the three
schools. What thrilling contests took place, and with what final
results, can be found in the second story of this series, bearing
the title, "The Boys of Columbia High on the Diamond; or, Winning
Out by Pluck."

When the Glorious Fourth came along, the river that flowed past
the three towns was the scene of a most remarkable gathering; for
the annual regatta between the boat clubs of the high schools had
been set down for observance. To enjoy the humor of the tub
races, and experience the thrills that accompanied the flight of
the rival four-oared and eight-oared shells over the scheduled
course, the reader must peruse the third volume, called: "The Boys
of Columbia High on the River; or, The Boat Race 'Plot That
Failed."

And now vacation having ended, and school being once more under
full swing, with the dropping of the highly-colored leaves from
the woods along the banks of the picturesque Harrapin, there was
heard little save football talk on the campus, and wherever the
sons of old Columbia High congregated.

A well-to-do widow, in memory of her boy, Wallace Todd, who had
died the preceding year while a student at the high school, had
offered a beautiful silver cup to the victor in the football
contests, the winning team to hold it for an entire season.

It was to be known as the Wallace Cup, and every day crowds stood
before the window of the silversmith's store in Columbia, admiring
its magnificent proportions.

Squads of boys even came by trolley from Bellport, and openly
boasted as to their intention to carry that same trophy home with
them after the struggles on the gridiron had been finished.

The group of lads watching the work of the scrub team consisted of
various types among the students and town fellows.

Presently, however, Tony Gilpin nudged another fellow and beckoned
him away. He knew full well that Asa Barnes, now a senior, and a
class ahead of him, had only bitter feelings for several in that
scrub team, and chief of all the captain, Bones Shadduck.

Lately both Tony and Asa had taken a notion that they would like
to join the Delta Pi fraternity. To their disgust, however, they
were blackballed, some among the members objecting to receiving
fellows with their known reputation for mischief and evil-doing.

In some way they conceived the idea that Bones Shadduck was
primarily responsible for their humiliation. They never accused
him of it, but nursed their fancied grievance, and planned to have
revenge in some fashion.

Tony was looking more than ordinarily ugly as he strolled away
with Asa Barnes.

The broad hint which one of his companions had advanced regarding
his rather poor chances of holding down his position as a Columbia
half-back against the aspirations of Ralph West, the boy from
Paulding, had fired his heart anew with a fierce desire to take
matters into his own hands, and remedy them.

"Well, what's your opinion, Asa?" demanded Tony, as they sauntered
along. "You said you'd be square with me. What d'ye think of that
dub's playing? Is he going to make it, and knock me off the
earth?"

Asa Barnes was nothing, if not a sneak. Throughout his entire
career at school he had been looked upon as a species of snake,
and had few friends. Even those who did go with him, on account of
his having unlimited spending money, always kept a cautious eye
out for treachery.

"Oh, you're going to get it where the chicken did--in the neck!"
he replied cheerfully, with a grin that told of secret pleasure,
for he liked to see others suffer.

"No kidding now, but tell me the truth for once. Is Ralph West the
wonder they make out? Can he play half-back better than I do? I'm
not from Missouri, but, all the same, I want to know; for it's
going to settle a question I've had in my mind a long time. Cut
in, now!" exclaimed Tony, wrathfully.

"He's all to the good," replied the other, grimly, "and when I say
that, disliking the fellow as I do, you can understand it means
something. I never saw a quicker half-back in my life; and when it
comes to making a tackle, the fellow doesn't really know what fear
is! If they put him on the regulars, there's going to be something
doing among those long-legged chaps from Clifford."

Tony growled like a bear with a sore head; he also cast a side
look at his companion, as though questioning his sincerity. Asa
liked to see anyone squirm, and often did and said things just for
that privilege. His companions had long ago declared that he was
cut out for a surgeon--or a butcher, like his father.

"Once for all, do you mean that?" hissed the enraged boy, laying a
quivering hand on his comrade's arm.

"I certainly do. He's got the Indian sign on you, Tony, for fair.
Mark my words, when I predict that, _unless something unusual
happens_ between now and next Saturday, when we play Clifford,
Ralph West is going to take your place at left half-back!"

The other fairly glared at him.

"Well, you're awful plain about it, Asa," he muttered.

"You told me to be, and I'm giving you my honest opinion. But, all
the same now, I don't think this disaster will happen," Asa added,
with a grin at the other.

"Oh, you don't, eh? What's going to prevent it?" demanded Tony.

"You are, unless I'm mighty much mistaken in your make-up," said
the other boy, promptly. "Remember what we agreed to do about that
Bones Shadduck, for getting us knocked down with that measly old
Delta Pi business? Well, there's a pair of 'em now!"

"Do you mean it. Will you stick with me if I try to knock West
out, so he won't be able to play football again for weeks? Are you
game, or do you mean to egg me on to the last ditch, and then
sidestep, leaving me to shoulder all the blame?"

Tony's face was eager, and the light in his eyes told of a fierce
desire to do something mean that would accomplish the desire of
his heart.

His companion laughed as though it might be a joke. Asa was so
used to others suspecting his honesty of purpose that he never
seemed to get offended when they doubted his word. Another boy
might have shown temper, but Asa never did this. He might grit his
teeth behind a fellow's back, and vow to get even for an insult;
but to his face he was either smiling or sneering, as the humor
seized him.

"Yes, I'll help you out. Remember, it isn't because I feel for
you," he said, quickly, as though he feared lest he should
actually be considered as possessing any consideration for a
comrade. "I've got my own little axe to grind, you see. The fellow
happens to be sweet on Helen Allen, and once on a time she used to
go with me to parties and the like. You understand, don't you,
Tony?"

"Sure. And there's nothing that burns so deep as that. Then it's
settled that we're going to lay for both Ralph and Bones at the
very first chance, with some fellows we can depend on, and do
them up? That's the programme, Asa?"

"I leave the particulars to you. Meanwhile I'll drum up a few
recruits to make the crowd. Just now I know of three bully fellows
who happen to have it in for either Ralph or Bones. You get as
many, and then there's going to be some fun doing," and Asa
laughed in the cold-blooded fashion that made so many dislike him.

"Well, when a fellow is bruised to beat the band, not to speak of
possibly a broken rib or two, he ain't going to play football in a
hurry," grunted Tony.

The other cast a quick look at his companion.

"You don't want to go too far, old chap. If he happened to be
seriously hurt, we might be called on to explain before Professor
Parke," he observed.

So talking, they sauntered along the road again, having paused to
exchange the significant remarks as to their intentions.

Hardly had they gone twenty feet away, than a head was cautiously
raised above an old log that lay just within the edge of the
woods, and a white face looked rather fearfully after the pair of
plotters.




CHAPTER II

ON THE ROAD TO TOWN


"Hello, Ralph, through practice here? Then walk home with me, and
take supper at the house, won't you? I've got some things I want
to talk over with you."

"Yes, we're done working, and I'll be glad to walk with you; but
if I'm to sit down at your table, you'll have to wait for me to
dress and clean myself. Will we have time?" And Ralph's face told
how much he appreciated a chance to spend an evening at the home
of Frank Allen, his friend and chum; for his boarding house room
did look a bit cheerless at night time.

"Plenty of time, old fellow. How did the practice go to-day?
Getting in trim, do you think?" asked Frank, who, as a senior, and
the captain and full-back of the regular football squad, was
supposed to have an intense interest in everything that took place
on the practice field day by day.

"Oh, pretty well, I think. I'm not wholly satisfied with myself,
but I believe I'm improving every day," replied the other,
modestly.

Frank looked sideways at his friend, and smiled. He had just been
talking with the coach, and heard what he had to say about the
scrub team. It was already understood between them that two of the
regulars must give way to better men who shone as stars on the
scrub. Columbia wanted her best sons in front, regardless of any
favoritism.

Coach Willoughby was back again, visiting at the home of Buster
Billings' folks. He said the "lure of the leather" was too much
for him, bringing back those dear old college days when he played
on the Princeton eleven, and carried the ball over Yale's line
for a hard-fought victory.

And so he had consented to take charge of the Columbia players,
and help them get in condition for the work ahead, when they were
to meet the brawny cohorts of Clifford, and those others from
Bellport.

Frank and Ralph had not gone more than fifty yards down the dusty
road leading from the recreation field to the town center, perhaps
a full mile away, when Ralph felt a sharp tug at his arm.

"Hello! what's this?" he said, looking down at a small girl, who
seemed so shy that her face was covered with blushes as she pulled
at his sleeve.

"Please, Mr. West, I'd like to say something to you," she said,
hesitatingly.

"Why, it's Madge Smalling, Mary's older sister!" exclaimed Ralph,
showing new interest.

In the Spring he had been instrumental in finding a little girl
who had hurt herself seriously, in the woods. At the time, Ralph
was on his way to the recreation field, where he was expected to
pitch a game against a rival school. Still, as he could not think
of leaving the child there to suffer, he had carried her to the
mill where her father was employed.

Since that time, he had been a welcome visitor at the home of the
Smallings, and, of course, was well known to this girl of nine,
who had been away at the time of Mary's adventure.

"Shall I walk on," asked Frank, with a wink, "because, you know,
there are times when two is company, three none."

"None of your joshing, now," said Ralph, and then, turning to the
child, he continued: "I hope nothing is wrong over at your house,
Madge?"

"Oh, no, sir. It wasn't that. I heard something about you, and I
wanted to tell you right away, 'cause I'm afraid of that bad boy.
Once he threw water on me, and laughed when I cried. Then he put a
nasty cold frog in my hand, and made me hold it ever so long."

Ralph looked at his friend. "Whoever can she mean, and what has
that got to do with me?" he said, wonderingly.

"The other boy called him Asa," remarked Madge, quickly.

"Oh, now I begin to see light. And was the second chap called
Tony?" Ralph asked.

"Oh, yes, that was it. I saw them coming along the road, and I
was afraid that he had another nasty frog. So I hid behind a log,"
the child went on, her face showing the deep interest she felt
in her own recital.

"Say, Frank, this grows exciting. Tony and Asa walking along with
their heads close together means trouble for someone, perhaps even
me. And this little girl, hiding behind a log, hears them
plotting. Now, what d'ye think of that for thrilling a fellow's
nerve? What did they say, Madge? Can you remember?" he asked,
looking down into the girl's face reassuringly, and stroking her
tangled hair.

"Oh, I didn't understand it all, but they hated you, and said they
must get some other bad boys to beat you, so you couldn't play
ball again. If you only saw his face when he said that! It was so
fierce I just shivered. I hope they don't do it to you, Mr. West.
It would be worse than a nasty, cold frog."

Again the two lads exchanged glances.

"Aha!" chuckled Frank, "the plot thickens. Tony feels the chill
of coming events, and wants to make sure that you will never
displace him on the regular team. I'm not so much surprised,
though. It wouldn't be the first time a candidate has been marked
for assault in the hope of putting him out of the running. An
ounce of prevention is better than a pound of cure. And since we
know now what is in the wind, we must be doubly on our guard. I
suspected that some of them, Lef Seller and his crowd, perhaps,
might have it in for me, but it seems that you are the goat,
Ralph."

"Well, I'm ever so much obliged to Madge here for telling me. And
next time I come out to her house I'm going to fetch along a box
of candy to pay the debt," said Ralph, kindly.

"You always do that, anyway," declared the child, promptly, at
which Frank burst into another laugh.

"Oh, all your secrets will come out, one by one, old fellow. I
think I'll have to post my sister Helen on your double dealing.
She might be jealous of Mary and Madge," he declared.

"Don't you worry. Helen has walked out there with me more than
once. They're all very fond of your sister, Frank," declared
Ralph, blushing a little.

"Well, you don't blame them, do you?" asked the brother,
promptly; which caused his friend to bend down to shake hands and
bid the little maid good-by.

As the two boys tramped along toward Frank's home, they naturally
talked again of the unpleasant news that had been brought to their
attention in so singular a way.

"I wish I knew just what to do about it," said Frank, frowning
with displeasure, "It's certainly a most unsportsmanlike spirit to
show, knocking your school colors, because you can't play. I call
that a rule-or-ruin policy. Do you suppose, if we told the boys,
it would put a stop to the nasty game?"

"We have no proof, for they wouldn't be apt to take a child's word
for much. So I'm afraid it wouldn't be just the wisest thing to
tell it broadcast," answered the serious Ralph.

"Anyhow, I mean to take a few of my special friends into council,
and warn them what we're up against. From this time on you need a
guardian squad, Ralph," the other went on.

"Why me more than any other fellow?" asked Ralph.

"I'll tell you, though I meant to keep it until to-night. Coach
Willoughby finally made up his mind, though nobody knows it but
myself. He means to drop two fellows off the team to-morrow--Tony
Gilpin and George Andersen; the former because he fails to come up
to the scratch, and George on account of that old injury to his
leg, which is cropping up again. He was our star player last year,
and we are going to miss him a heap."

"Yes, I supposed poor George would have to go, but expected Tony
would hold on," remarked Ralph, quietly.

"And the coach has decided that _you_ are to take the place
of Tony as left half-back. I'm awful glad of it! I purposely kept
my hands off, because I wanted merit and not favoritism to bring
the change about. Shake on it, Ralph!"

"And I'm glad, too," remarked the other, his voice quivering a
little with his emotion; "not that I like to supplant any other
fellow, but I believe it's only right that every one of Columbia's
sons should cherish an earnest desire to make the best of what
there is in him. I only hope the coach isn't making a serious
mistake, that's all."

"I know he isn't, and the other fellows will say so, too, when
they hear. Tony isn't a popular player at all, and when there is
dissension in a baseball nine or a football eleven, it's going to
make trouble. 'Beware the worm i' the bud,' you know. But these
cowards may find that they're up against a tougher proposition
than they suspect, before they're done with it."

Frank was even more indignant at the possibility of peril
overhanging the head of his chum, than if it had threatened
himself. That is ever the way with generous souls.

"Three days more, and then comes Clifford after our scalp,"
remarked Ralph, desirous of dropping the unpleasant subject for
the time being.

"Yes, and although Bellport beat them last Saturday 17 to 4, we
mustn't imagine Clifford is going to be an easy mark for us.
Perhaps they may fancy our style of play, and rub it all over us.
Nobody can say until we've met, and fought it out," was Frank's
sagacious remark.

"I agree with you on that score," declared his companion:
"Clifford was unfortunate in many ways. She lost three of her best
men through accidents, while Bellport did not. Then some people
hint that her secret signals were given away, because the Bellport
players seemed to be ready to meet every sudden move Clifford
made."

"Yes, I heard that, too, and while I hate to believe any fellow
could be so low as to betray his school to the enemy, it's been
done before. We must be doubly on our guard against such a thing.
I've been thinking up a little scheme that would upset anything
like that. But we haven't started with signals yet, keeping that
until to-morrow, when the real team as selected will come
together."

"I can guess what you've got in mind, Frank, but I'm not asking
questions. Only I do hope nothing prevents me from going into
that game. Somehow, all my life I've just longed to be a football
player. There's something about the game that seems to just stir
me up, as even baseball couldn't. And yet nobody would call me a
scrapper either," remarked Ralph.

"Oh, it isn't that always. Lots of good football players are
quiet, modest fellows, ready to mind their own business, if let
alone. I guess it must be something in a fellow's nature that
makes him long to buck up against difficulties, and down them. And
seeing that you've always been so quiet and unassuming a fellow, I
hardly know how to apply that to you, either. It's just born in a
man, that's what," and Frank clapped his hand affectionately on
his chum's shoulder.

Others were streaming along the road at the same time, homeward
bound.

"Look out, here comes a vehicle back of us," said Ralph presently,
when they were about half-way to Columbia Center.

They stepped to the side of the road, to allow the carriage to
pass.

"Why, it's Minnie Cuthbert and a friend!" said Ralph, suddenly.

At that Frank turned hastily, the color flying to his face like
magic; for that same name always had a wonderful influence over
him, since he and Minnie had long been the warmest of friends.

The pretty girl who held the reins urged her horse on. There was a
look in her face that Frank had never seen there before. She
stared straight at him, as he took off his cap and bowed, but not
by the slightest sign did she give any evidence of being aware
that such a person as Frank Allen existed.

It was the cut direct!

Ralph uttered an exclamation of amazement. Quickly he glanced at
his chum, to see that Frank had gone deadly white, and his eyes
glittered with sudden spasm of pain that seized upon him.

He drew a long breath, and tried to get a grip on himself.

"Say, that hurt some, I tell you, Ralph. I never expected to be
cut by Minnie Cuthbert, that's sure," he said, between his set
teeth.

Ralph was sorely puzzled. He remembered that Minnie really owed
her life to the wonderful presence of mind of Frank, when a
runaway horse had threatened to bring disaster down upon her.

"What's happened?" he asked, eyeing his friend.

"You know as much as I do. It's a mystery to me," returned Frank.

"Perhaps Lef Seller could tell; he's just back of us, and I heard
him laugh as he saw Minnie drive past without speaking," suggested
the other, meaningly.

"I wonder now if history has a habit of repeating itself,"
ventured Frank. "But what can I do but grin and bear it? Sooner or
later she'll find out the truth. I'll never ask for an explanation,
knowing that I've done nothing to make her act so. Now, forget it,
and let's talk about your affairs, Ralph."




CHAPTER III

THE STRANGE HISTORY OF RALPH


"If you don't mind, Frank, I'd like to go out of my way a few
steps, so as to stop at the post-office. There's a late mail comes
in after the last delivery by carrier," observed Ralph, after they
had reached town.

"Why, certainly," returned the other, quickly, as he glanced at
Ralph, who smiled half sadly and nodded.

"I keep hoping to hear something from your Uncle Jim. It may come
any day now, unless the very worst has happened, and they're all
lost over in that big wild country," said Ralph, drawing a long
breath.

"When did you hear from him last?" asked his friend, as they
turned the corner into the main street of Columbia.

"A month ago. You know, from England they had gone to India. He
wrote me from there that he had just missed Mr. Arnold Musgrove
and his widowed sister, Mrs. John Langworthy, who had sailed for
China."

"Yes, I remember all that. The lady has always been a very great
traveler, and something of an explorer. You told me she was
intending to do something that few strong men had ever attempted,"
remarked Frank, wonderfully interested in all that pertained to
the strange history of this boy friend.

Ralph had been brought up as the son of the Wests, living in the
village of Paulding. Then there had come a letter by mail,
accompanying bank notes to the extent of fifty dollars, and
telling him that a friend, knowing of his great ambition to get an
education above what the little country school could afford,
wished him to accept this gift, which would be duplicated every
month.

Ralph, with the assistance of his good friend, Frank, had learned
that the money came through a lawyer in New York, really an uncle
of young Allen. Then, later on, it was found that Ralph was only
an adopted son of the Wests, who had taken him from a poorhouse.

By degrees, it came out that the man who had left this sum with
the lawyer, Mr. Arnold Musgrove, must be an uncle of the boy, who
was, in all probability, a son of the rich widow.

Judge Jim had immediately set out for Europe, to confront
Musgrove, and tell the lady that her child was not dead, as she
believed, but could be restored to her. And, as Ralph had just
said, the legal gentleman soon found that he was going to have the
time of his life overtaking the energetic couple.

"Well," remarked Ralph, in answer to the inquiry of his chum, "she
and her brother actually started with a caravan overland across
China, skirting Thibet, and aiming to head northeast, so as to
pass through a portion of Siberia, and after that reach Russia.
They have been gone a long time now, and I wonder if I will ever
see her face. Sometimes it seems too good to be true."

There was no letter at the post-office for Ralph. He was getting
used to this daily disappointment. Still, Frank could see the look
of pain that flashed across Ralph's fine face, though he tried to
conceal it with a little laugh.

Arrived at his boarding place, the boys entered. It did not take
Ralph long to take a bath, and get into his ordinary clothes,
after which they hurried to the Allen home, where Frank followed
suit.

Although Frank said nothing more about the strange actions of
Minnie, it was very plain to his friend that he felt the snub
deeply.

"If I thought he wouldn't be mad with me, I'd be tempted to try
and find out from Minnie what she meant," Ralph was saying to
himself, as he sat opposite his chum at the table, and noticed the
little frown that occasionally came upon the open countenance of
the one he had in mind.

But he knew Frank's ways, and that the other would not like any
meddling in his own private affairs.

"Better let him settle it in his own fashion," was the conclusion
Ralph reached. "But if Lef Seller has had anything to do with it,
I'm sorry for him, that's all. Once Frank makes up his mind that
these pranks of Lef have reached a limit, he's going to give him
an _awful_ licking; and I know it."

Frank had been watching his sister Helen at supper. He knew that
there was something worrying her, too, and the strange thought
came that perhaps it might be along the same lines as his own
vexation.

"I wonder, now, could that be possible?" was the question that
kept confronting him.

Having once given way to this suspicion, he could not refrain from
trying to find out the truth. Helen had gone upstairs, on some
small excuse. He was surprised to find her in her room, and with
traces of tears in her beautiful eyes.

"Why, what's the matter, sister mine? Has anyone been abusing you?
I wonder if I could guess. Is it about Minnie?" he asked, gently,
for Frank was very fond of his only sister, but two years younger
than himself.

She looked at him in surprise.

"Why, Frank, however did you guess?" she exclaimed.

"Because," he replied, steadily, "she gave me the cut direct when
Ralph and myself were heading home from the athletic field this
evening. She and Dottie Warren were in the carriage, and Minnie
looked right through me when I bowed. Whew! it gave me a shock, I
tell you."

"The mean thing, to carry it to you! I suppose I've said something
or other to give her offense, although I tried in vain to remember
any cause; but since she chooses to include all my family in her
resentment, I'm not going to do the least thing in the way of an
apology," exclaimed Helen, warmly.

"I'm of the impression that it's me who's to blame, though I don't
know what I've done," said Frank, immediately. "If I did, I'd
apologize decently, and have it over with, whether she accepted it
or not. But Ralph suggests that perhaps it's the work of some
outsider, who wants to make trouble between Minnie and the
Allens."

"Oh, how mean! And from the way you talk, I can imagine who it is
you have in mind. That wouldn't be the first time Lef Seller has
been guilty of meddling!" exclaimed the girl, indignantly.

"It was Ralph who said that. He heard Lef laugh when she cut me,
as if it tickled him. If I could only get proof that he's been
telling yarns about me, I'd soon settle old scores with him. But
you won't try to make up, will you Helen?"

"Certainly not! I'm the innocent party. Minnie chose to give me to
understand that she'd prefer to go out with Dottie this afternoon.
I just turned away and came straight home. I think she called out
after me, but I wouldn't turn my head an inch. I shall decline to
ever speak to her again until the time comes when she apologizes.
There!" and Helen stamped her little foot on the floor, for
emphasis.

Frank sighed, and went back to the library, where Ralph was
chatting with Mr. Allen, always deeply interested in the strange
life story of the boy from Paulding.

Three times that evening Frank went to the telephone and held a
little confab with some unknown parties. Each time when he came
back he would be smiling in a way that mystified his friend, who
wondered what the particular business could be that took up so
much of his time.

But then, a captain of a school football eleven, on the eve of a
great struggle, must have no end of difficulties to straighten
out; and doubtless Frank found much to talk about with the various
members of his team.

Helen had come down again, and showed nothing of the dreadful
shock her feelings had sustained when her one particular chum so
basely deserted her.

She sang for Ralph, and the three of them also joined their voices
in many of the school songs dear to the heart of all Columbia
students.

"Ten o'clock, and time I was getting away to my little den,"
remarked Ralph, at last; for even the best of evenings must come
to an end.

"Wait just a few minutes," said Frank, mysteriously.

"What's all this? You're up to something or other," laughed the
other.

"I'm waiting, that's all," returned Frank, calmly.

"Waiting for what?"

"To hear the signal--there it is!" as three distinct knocks
sounded on the outside of the house.

"Why, whatever does it mean, Frank," asked the visitor, as he
arose to get his cap: for they were again in the little den Frank
called his sanctum, where he kept all his beloved traps connected
with the sports he delighted in, most of them decorating the
walls.

"They're all on deck, thank goodness! And now it's safe for you to
go home," was the rather startling remark of the other.

Ralph looked at the speaker a moment, and then, as a light dawned
upon his comprehension, he burst out into a genuine, hearty,
boyish laugh.

"Say, you don't mean to tell me you've gone and got a bodyguard to
escort me to my own dear little home, do you, Frank? Well, of all
the pranks, this certainly takes the cake! What do you think, that
they're already getting down to their fine little work, and mean
to kidnap me?" he exclaimed, greatly amused.

"No, but I know that crowd better than you do. When two sneaks
like Tony Gilpin and Asa Barnes make up their minds to gather a
bunch of skunks after their own stripe, and waylay a fellow they
hate, they lose no time about it. There's only one more day
between now and Saturday, when we play Clifford; and I saw them
turning to notice whether we kept on together. They know you are
here, sure."

"But I might slip out the back way, and give them the merry ha!
ha!" suggested Ralph; "though I hate to crawl that way from such
cowards, not one of them willing to face me outright."

"But that isn't it. We have talked it over, and come to the
conclusion that half of the fun would be lost unless those whelps
were treated to a dose of their own medicine. They need a good
sound licking, and I give you my word for it, they're due for one
if they try to tackle you on the road home to-night," and Frank,
as he spoke, brought his fist down sharply on his knee.

"Who did you invite to the party?" inquired Ralph, still laughing
at the absurdity of his requiring a bodyguard.

"Let me see," replied Frank. "There's Lanky Wallace, for one;
Buster Billings, for the second, and Paul Bird, for the third."

"Three good men, and true. I see that I'll be well protected on my
journey of half a dozen blocks!" cried Ralph.

"Oh, that's only a beginning. Each one of them agreed to get two
other fellows belonging to the team, if possible; for they want
all the practice they can get. So there will be nine in the bunch
that follows after you; ten, counting myself!"

"Oh, splash! That's an army! Why so many, Frank, when I'd be
willing to go anywhere with just you along for company," demanded
the other.

"Thanks for the compliment; but, you see, everybody wanted to go,
and bring others, and so I had to let 'em have their way. Now,
you'll probably never see a sign of our crowd as you walk along,
whistling and seeming to be unsuspicious. But at the first sign of
trouble, lift your sweet voice and sing out the rallying cry we
all know, 'Columbiad!' That will fetch us on the jump, Ralph. Hold
them off as best you can for a dozen seconds, and then prepare to
laugh."

"All right, seeing that it's your joke. Honestly, I don't think
they'll pay any attention to poor me; but since Coach Willoughby
believes I ought to play with the regulars, and any hurt to one is
an injury to all, I'll accept the guard of honor; only _please_
don't tell anyone about it to-morrow, unless you want me to be the
butt of ridicule for the whole school."

"Wait and see," was all Frank would say; and with this Ralph had
to be content.

The two friends separated at the door. Frank rather ostentatiously
bade his visitor good-night, and Ralph sauntered down the walk to
the gate, as the door closed.

Although he looked around once or twice, and thought he caught a
fleeting glimpse of several flitting figures, Ralph walked bravely
on his way, whistling merrily, as though he had not a care or
trouble in the wide world.

When he had gone a couple of blocks, he came to a portion of the
road when the shadows were densest. Here the trees grew close to
the thoroughfare, and this fact made it a splendid hiding place
for anyone so inclined. There was a legend told of a peddler who
had, once upon a time, been set upon by tramps at this point, and
robbed and beaten, so that he died of his hurts.

Even bold people were wont to hurry their steps a trifle when
passing this ill-omened place. Ralph, however, kept on at his
customary pace, still whistling one of the songs he had so lately
sung with Frank and Helen Allen.

Just as he was half-way past the shadowy spot, he heard a sudden
shrill sound, not unlike a referee's whistle on the football
gridiron. Dark figures immediately sprang up close by, and the
rush of many feet told that the danger anticipated by Frank was
about to materialize.

Ralph at once threw himself into a position of self defense, and
at the same time shouted out the call for assistance so well known
to all the sons of Columbia High.




CHAPTER IV

TREACHERY IN THE CAMP


"Columbiad! Columbiad!"

It was the call for assistance, known to, and respected by, every
boy who loved the name of Columbia High School--a rallying cry in
time of emergency, when the enemy had carried the ball down close
to the home goal, and almost supernatural efforts were needed, in
order to beat back the rising tide.

Never did the old familiar yell of "Hey, Rube!" appeal more
positively to canvasmen connected with a traveling circus, when
set upon by rowdies in some wayside town, than did this shout.

Ralph had no time for more. From three sides he found himself
attacked by unknown foes. Some had their hats drawn far over their
faces, in order to conceal their identity, while others had gone
still further, and tied handkerchiefs over the lower half, with
the same purpose in view.

A jargon of angry cries arose, each assailant seeming desirous of
venting his especial method for showing dislike.

"Down him, boys!"

"Spank the cub!"

"Send him back where he belongs; we don't want poorhouse brats
here!"

"Do him up! Butt in, fellows! Make a clean sweep of it now!"

Among all these outcries, only that one concerning the "poorhouse"
stung the ears of the boy at bay. It was so cruel, so mean, so
utterly uncalled for, that his whole body seemed to quiver with
indignation, and a burning fire shot through his veins.

He had thrown himself into an attitude of self defense, with his
back against a tree. In this way he was able to avoid considerable
punishment, since the attacking force could not completely
surround him, the tree being an unusually big one.

[Illustration: HE HAD THROWN HIMSELF INTO AN ATTITUDE OF
SELF-DEFENSE.]

So far as he could see, there were at least half a dozen opposed
to him. Evidently Tony and Asa did not mean to take any chances
when trying to put the new candidate for honors on the regular
team out of the running.

What with all the row connected with their rush, the cowardly
assailants were themselves unable to hear the patter of
swiftly-approaching footsteps, coming from the rear. They evidently
shouted, in order to keep their courage up, and prevent Ralph from
recognizing any one particular voice.

The beleaguered boy was himself fighting like a cat at bay. He had
no positive assurance that friends were near, and with so many
eager hands striving to reach his face and body, he had to
retaliate, giving blow for blow.

Once he managed to dash his clenched fist into the face of a
fellow who, in his eagerness, had rushed in too close.

"Wow!" bellowed the stricken party, and somehow it seemed to Ralph
that the voice was that of Tony Gilpin.

More than once he was himself the recipient of blows, some severe
and others of a glancing nature. For a brief period of time there
was a constant maelstrom of hands flying back and forth,
accompanied with shouts, jeers and grunts.

"Oh, you cowards!" called Ralph, as a blow struck him on the back
of the head, and almost stunned him for a second; one of the
crowd, not daring to face the boy at bay, having crept alongside
the tree to watch his chance.

He could easily believe that this was Asa Barnes. Immediately a
mad desire possessed him to pounce upon that sneak and return the
blow with interest. Despite the array of threatening fists that
formed a half-circle in front, Ralph threw himself around to one
side of the tree, eager to come in contact with the object of his
especial contempt.

So speedy were his movements that the treacherous one could not
get out of the way, nor was he, anticipating such a bold act on
the part of the boy who had been held up on the road.

Just as Ralph pounced vigorously upon him, he caught sight of a
number of dark figures jumping into the fray. At the same instant
new shouts arose, a volume of sound that made the welkin ring, and
brought satisfaction to the heart of the one in peril.

He knew then that his call for assistance had been heard--that
Frank and his football comrades had reached the spot, and were in
the act of practicing their gridiron tactics upon the unfortunates
who had fallen into the very trap they had themselves set.

"Help! help! fellows, take him off!" shrieked the one against whom
the angry Ralph had collided; for both of them had gone down in a
scrambling, kicking heap.

Fear caused the under dog to make frantic efforts to escape; and
while Ralph was able to get a little satisfaction out of his
attack, he found it utterly impossible to hang on to the squirming
figure, which, eluding his grasp, presently rolled over and over,
bounded to his feet, and fled like the wind.

Meanwhile there was taking place a furious fight. The disguised
crowd found itself outnumbered two to one, and while they struck
back whenever possible, the one thought in their minds was escape.

"Cut it!" shouted the one who seemed to be a leader.

"Don't let them get away! Take 'em prisoners!" whooped a tall lad,
who was doing his share of the mauling.

But that was easier said than done. The now sadly demoralized
enemy scattered in every direction, some running wildly down the
road, and others vanishing in the darkness of the wood.

"They're gone!" cried Lanky Wallace, in disgust, as he found that
the fellow he had embraced was no other than his fat friend,
Buster Billings.

"Let me go, hang it! You've squeezed the last breath out of me!
I'd had that dub, only for your interference. Such rotten luck!"
gasped the stout one, as he shook himself free from Lanky's
encircling arms.

Frank was at the side of the boy they had rescued just in time.

"How is it, Ralph, did they pummel you hard?" he asked,
solicitously.

"I gave 'em more than I took; but my head sings a bit from the
nasty knock that sneak Asa Barnes gave me from behind!" replied
the other.

"From behind!" echoed Lanky, indignantly; "well, wouldn't that jar
you some now? But what else could you expect from that snake in
the grass? He never fought fair in all his life. I hope you got
one or two in back on him, Ralph."

"Didn't you hear him howl for help?" replied the other, quickly.
"That was when I nailed him. I guess his head rings about as much
as mine does. But, boys, you came just in time. I was in a tight
box. And I'm ever so much obliged for the help."

"Don't mention it, old chap. We really needed the exercise, and
the only thing I complain of is that it all happened too fast.
Why, I don't believe I really got my windmill working freely when
I was threshing the air. Zip! and they were gone," and Paul Bird
laughed heartily at the hasty way in which the enemy had vanished.

"You're sure they didn't get you?" persisted Frank.

"I guess I'm all right," laughed the other, as he swung both arms
back and forth, and bent his body to test his muscles; "you see,
there wasn't time enough for them to do much damage. And they were
all so mighty anxious to reach me they really interfered with each
other."

"As we came up on the run, I thought I heard one fellow give a
whoop of pain, as if he had run up against something. Was that
your fault, Ralph?" demanded Lanky.

"Sure. And what's more, I expect it was Tony. If he shows a black
eye to-morrow, give me credit for one goal kicked, boys," replied the
party addressed.

Bones Shadduck was lighting a match.

"Hello! What's that for?" asked Jack Eastwick.

"I picked up a hat just now, and the idea struck me that possibly
there might be some more headgear lying around. We'd like to know
who these pirates are, you see, and here's a chance to get a line
on 'em," explained the other, as he bent low to scan the ground in
the immediate vicinity.

"Matches--who's got any? Pass 'em around, fellows!" called Buster.

Immediately there was quite an illumination around that part of
the road, half a dozen tiny torches burning at once, as eager eyes
scanned the ground. Twice cries of satisfaction announced that a
find had rewarded the search, but the supply of matches gave out,
and, besides, it seemed that there were no more hats or caps to be
gathered in.

"Three times, and out, boys! Now we'll be able to learn who some
of the crowd must have been. I think I ought to nail this gay old
cap. Nobody but Bill Klemm ever dared wear such a screamer as
that," announced Lanky, holding the object of his derision aloft.

"And this looks like the hat I turned over to Jay Tweedle the time
I accidentally knocked his off in the river, and it sank. I know
it is, fellows!" exclaimed Frank, who had been one of the lucky
discoverers.

"Well, we're getting a line on the bunch, all right," laughed
Jack.

"If only Ralph marked both Tony and Asa, and we've got the hats of
three more, it looks good to me," chirped Lanky.

"Fall in, fellows!" called Bones Shadduck, assuming the air of a
drum major, as he waved an imaginary baton in the air.

With considerable talking and laughter, the squad gathered around
Ralph.

"Here, what's all this mean?" laughed Ralph. "Want to make me a
high muckamuck, a grand sachem surrounded by his valiant
bodyguard? I object. I'm only a common worm, like the rest of you,
and not fit for these great honors. Take Frank there, and put him
in the center of the bunch; he's the captain of the crew!"

"Worms! Hear him rant, fellows, will you? Compares us to the lowly
angleworm of commerce. And this is the reward we get for
sacrificing our sleep to rescue the perishing! I call it base
ingratitude, that's what!" cried one.

"But just now you're the guest of honor, Ralph; the one bright
particular star that has attracted the attention of all the meaner
ones. Just hold your row, and let us run this funeral, will you?"
declared Buster.

"Oh, well, have it your own way, fellows. You're a good lot,
anyhow, to pull my chestnuts out of the fire for me," concluded
the one upon whom all these attentions were being showered.

And so they marched through the streets singing one of their
school songs. The good people of Columbia were quite accustomed to
such "stunts" on the part of the students, especially when there
was a day of sport close by. At such times the thriving town on
the bank of the Harrapin was wont to assume all the airs of a
college center, and enthusiasm run rampant.

So, while many heads were thrust from doorways or windows as the
procession trailed along, no adverse comments arose. Many of those
same men were old graduates themselves, and such patriotic songs
only served to awaken the spirit that never could be wholly
eradicated from their systems.

In such fashion was Ralph West conducted to his humble boarding
place. And hearty were the "good nights" that accompanied the
scattering of the band of defenders.

Frank and Lanky walked home together.

"That job's done, anyhow," remarked Frank, with evident satisfaction.

"And well done, too. Only one more night to consider, and the
glee club has its regular meeting then. We must keep a close watch
on Ralph. Those chumps mean to get him yet if they can. I only
hope I have just one more whack at some of that bunch. I never hit
a follow with more vim in my life than to-night, when I came up
against that chap with the handkerchief across his face."

"I heard him grunt," observed Frank, with a chuckle, "and really I
felt sorry for him. I think you struck him with both fists
together in the excitement. But it's a shame that Columbia fellows
are fighting among themselves just now, when we ought to be
united, and showing a common front against the enemy."

"Oh, these represent only a tail-end fragment. Don't count them as
much. Outside of possibly a dozen students, I firmly believe the
school _is_ united, and that you posses the confidence of the
whole town. This is our lucky year. I tell you we just _can't_
lose," and Lanky emphasized his words with a smack of one hand in
the palm of the other.

"I feel the same way," said Frank, "but, all the same, I'll be
better satisfied when the game has been played. There's many a
slip, you know. An accident might mar the finest play the gridiron
ever knew. And then the treachery of these fellows always annoys
me. An open foe I can meet boldly, but deliver me from the snake
in the grass that steals up in the rear to upset your calculations."

"Never mind, it'll be all right, Frank; but here we are at your
gate, so good night," and Lanky hurried on.




CHAPTER V

THE SIGNAL PRACTICE


The next day was Friday.

And with that battle of the gridiron gladiators looming up just
ahead, it can be readily understood that Mr. Amos Wellington, not
to mention Mr. Oswald, and the women teachers in Columbia High
School, found it a most difficult task to get any satisfaction out
of the many classes before them that day.

Football was in the air! The very tang of the frosty morning
seemed to suggest ideal weather conditions for the coming
struggle. Wherever boys congregated, on the campus before the
morning session, or down in the lunch room during intermission,
when they sampled the various types of sandwiches and pies
supplied by Mrs. Louden, nothing was talked of but the chances of
Columbia against the seasoned players of Clifford.

"They're heavier than our men," one would lament.

"But the day of weight in football is gone," cried another,
quickly.

"Yes, for the game as played to-day calls for agility and
pertinacity more than heft. And we've got the boys who can do
stunts, believe me, fellows!" remarked a third deeply-interested
student.

"They practice for the last time this afternoon, don't they?"

"Yes, but mostly on signals, I understand. Now the team has been
selected, they want to work in harmony," remarked the fellow who
seemed to know, because he had a big brother on the eleven, and
that was a great honor for the entire family.

"There's one weak spot," grumbled another prophet of evil.

"Name it, Sandy."

"Yes, tell us where it is. I've gone over the whole bunch ever so
many times, and with the new men I think it couldn't possibly be
improved."

"That's just it; you've put your finger on the sore the first
thing. Now, don't all jump on me at once, and say I'm knocking,
for I'm not. I think a heap both of Ralph West's playing and that
of Bones Shadduck. They're cracker jacks, and far superior to the
fellows they displaced."

"Then what are you kicking about, Sandy?" demanded Molly Manners,
the dudish student, who, while no athlete himself, always felt a
decided interest in the accomplishments of his more muscular
comrades.

"Lack of practice in common will bankrupt us. That's what worries
me. You see, Bones and Ralph haven't worked with the rest, to any
extent, at least. How can they fill their parts in the machine?
I'm dubious, that's all, even while hoping for the best," went on
the croaker.

"Well, now, don't let that keep you awake tonight. Coach
Willoughby has been training the scrub just as he did the regular
team. They know the same plays, and once the signals are decided
on the whole thing will move along like a well greased machine.
He's done wonders with the raw material. And if Columbia wins this
year, much of the credit belongs to the trainer, our old Princeton
grad."

"Hear! hear! Three cheers for Coach Willoughby!"

And they were given with a will.

Frank and Ralph came together at intermission. While they munched
a bit of lunch, they naturally fell into conversation, and, of
course, their talk must be in connection with the stirring events
of the preceding night.

"Have you met Tony?" asked Frank, with a chuckle of amusement.

"No. You see, he's a junior and I'm only a soph, so we run in
different grooves. What about him, Frank?" asked the other,
eagerly.

"I was sent into Miss Condit's room with a message from Mr.
Wellington, and, of course, I felt a little curious to know how
Tony looked. While I waited for an answer to the note I carried, I
glanced over to where he sat. Would you believe it, he had turned
deliberately around in his seat, so that his back was toward me."

"Then perhaps I did put my mark on him?" suggested Ralph, eagerly.

"Well, now, you certainly did. As I glanced further along I saw a
mirror at the side of the room, and just then discovered that he
was facing it. He turned fiery red when he caught my look, for I
really couldn't keep from grinning, because, as sure as you live,
my boy, our friend Tony is nursing a most beautiful black eye!"

"It serves him right. He had no business to bother me so. I only
struck in self-defense, and everyone is entitled to that
privilege," declared Ralph.

"Well, I should say so," remarked his friend, quickly, "and I hope
you did as well by that sneak of an Asa. But he was wise enough to
stay home to-day. When you get that fellow off his guard you can
catch a weasel asleep."

The ending of the recess brought their conversation to a close,
but after school, Ralph, possessed by a sort of fascination to
behold his work, haunted the campus until Tony appeared,
surrounded by several of his set.

The two rivals met face to face at the exit of the grounds. Tony
glared at the author of his woes, and his two chums made
threatening gestures; but, of course, they did not dare place a
finger on Ralph at such a time.

But, at any rate, Frank had certainly not understated the facts,
for Tony was the possessor of a fine black eye. Of course, it was
easy for him to invent a plausible excuse for this mishap; he had
run slap against a door when getting up in the dark. And, of
course, nobody believed him, though only a select few understood
the true origin of his damaged optic.

Ralph said never a word; but he could not keep from smiling a bit
as he turned away; and this must have been gall and wormwood to
the other fellow.

An hour later and the chosen eleven, together with the
substitutes, gathered on the field for their last instructions,
and the trial of the signal code. Frank and the coach were
frequently in secret confab, and the others regarded this as
having more or less significance.

"What did your investigation result in, Mr. Willoughby?" Frank was
asking.

"Just what we expected. I have learned beyond a shadow of a doubt
that the secret signals of Clifford were given to Bellport by some
traitor. A dozen people I interviewed were positive in that
belief. For while there is as yet no proof, they declare that on
no other grounds could the Bellports know just what play was
coming every time the other captain called out his numbers,"
replied the coach, in a firm voice.

"Well, it is what may happen to us, unless we change backward at
the last minute. That would confuse Clifford, and set them on the
wrong track," remarked Frank.

"Just so, and the advantage would be with us. If they can down you
boys squarely and fairly, I'll be the last one to knock, but this
thing of trickery makes me angry. Because they feel that they were
fooled by Bellport is no reason they should want to pass it along,
and defeat you unfairly. I'm surprised that there is no clean-minded
fellow on their team who will positively refuse to take advantage
of such a mean game."

"If Cuthbert Lee was still on the Bellport team," said Frank, "I'm
sure he'd never have listened to such a thing. It would be just
like him to go to the other side and tell them to change their
signals, as they had been betrayed. He was a lover of clean
sport."

"Then I only wish there were more like him, Frank. The trouble is,
too many boys, yes, and young men, too, believe that anything is
fair that promises to bring the advantages to their side. Love of
school is all very good, but it should never step in the way of
honest dealing," observed the Princeton man, soberly.

"Then we'll go on with the signals as they have been used?" asked
the other.

"To-day, yes, but in the morning we'll get the boys together
early, and change the whole order, so that things mean just the
opposite of what they are now. You get my meaning, don't you,
Frank?"

"Yes, and think it a capital idea. I've always been told that the
truly wise man is he who grapples with adversities, and makes them
work to his advantage. And that is what you propose to do now.
Watch Lanky; he's up to some mischief or other. I can tell it in
his actions. There he goes after the ball that he purposely kicked
into those bushes, I believe."

"Well, he's got it all right, and is calling to Substitute Buster
that it's up to him to try for a field goal," commented the coach,
smiling. "Yes; notice, however, that Lanky makes no effort to
hold the ball for the kick, but has set it there on the ground,"
continued Frank, who knew the joking propensities of his chum so
well that he could quickly guess when the other had any lark
coming.

"I suppose Lanky doesn't want to take chances of a bad kick, and,
considering how near the game is, you can hardly blame him.
Perhaps he's had some experience with Buster's kicking before.
There he goes now!"

"Look at Lanky, sir, with his fingers in his ears!"

Hardly had Frank spoken when Buster, swooping down, with all sail
set, on the inoffensive oval, brought his right foot against the
ball with a tremendous effort. The result was certainly
astonishing, for there was a sudden heavy detonation, and the
football arose about ten feet, in a sadly flattened condition,
while the kicker sat down heavily on the ground, looking dazed.

Lanky had substituted some cleverly constructed gas balloon,
placed in an old cover, for the genuine article, having previously
hidden the fraudulent contraption in those bushes until the chance
came to utilize the same.

There was a brief silence, and then a shout went up from the husky
band of players, who caught on to the joke. All but the dazed
Buster, who, still sitting there and gaping at the seeming remains
of a once fine oval football, shook his head and turned
appealingly toward the coach, called out:

"Say, that wasn't my fault, Mr. Willoughby. Now, who pays for that
ball, anyhow?" which remark brought out renewed shrieks from the
others, some of whom fairly fell over with the violence of their
merriment.

When the joke was explained to the fat boy, of course he laughed
heartily, for his nature could not take offense at anything.

Then the work began in earnest. The efficient coach drilled the
players in all the various plays that were apt to come up during
the course of the game. He expressed his pleasure at the masterly
way these were carried out.

"I'm satisfied that the changes I made have vastly strengthened
the whole team," he said, as he and Frank came together during a
period of rest, after a fierce foray, in which every player worked
systematically, and really clever passes and runs were made around
imaginary hostile forces.

In other days they had rubbed up against the scrub team, and
practiced all their arts against real foes, but this last practice
was to be in secret. Signal work and the drilling of Ralph and
Bones in their respective positions, must occupy much of the
afternoon.

To keep spectators away from the field, several dozen boys had
volunteered to patrol the neighborhood, completely surrounding the
open. Thus it would seem that there could be no one close enough
to overhear when the signal numbers were deliberately called by
the captain.

"Still, I'm under the impression that there may be someone hidden
in those bushes, or in a hollow tree, watching our work, and
drinking in all we say. When fellows descend to such low practices
as betraying their schoolmates to the enemy, they become very
crafty. On the whole, it will be better to change the code just
before the game to-morrow," remarked the coach, later on, during
another rest.

Frank said no more. Secretly, however, he was planning to find
out, if it could be possible, that this idea of Mr. Willoughby had
reason back of it. In other words, he had made up his mind that
when the crowd of players went back to town, he would find some
opportunity to drop behind, and keep watch over that field.

For the third and last time, play was resumed. Again did the coach
follow the carefully arranged maneuvers. Up to the present he had
found it necessary to stop them in the midst of the play to start
afresh, because of some inaccuracy. Not once did this occur now.

"Well, sir, how was that?" asked Frank, as, with disheveled hair
and soiled clothes, he came out of the fracas and sought the side
of the man who knew.

There was hardly any need to ask. Coach Willoughby's bronzed face
was all smiles.

"Fine! I never saw the thing executed better, even by the leading
colleges. Depend on it, my boy, if you and your men do as well as
that to-morrow, and there's no treachery shown, you're going to
mow Clifford down far worse than she suffered at the hands of
Bellport. I congratulate you, every one, for the fine form you
show. It does my heart good to see it. And now, home, lads, and
see to it that you don't overeat to-night, and go to bed at a
reasonable hour. That's all from me, and I feel that my work is
well done!"

The afternoon had worn away while they strained and labored,
trying for the last time some of the plays by means of which they
hoped to carry the ball into Clifford territory during the coming
game.

Each member of the team felt more or less weary when the coach
declared that they had done enough, and dismissed them for the
day.

"Don't forget the secret directions given for an early morning
meet in the place selected, to go over the changed signals," was
spoken in the ear of every fellow before they started back to
town.

Frank held out behind the rest, pretending to be busy with a
number of things that fell to his lot as captain of the eleven. He
had whispered his intentions to Lanky, and the latter, while
laughing at his fears, promised to keep any of the others from
returning to look for the leader, should they notice his absence.

Watching his chance, Frank dropped behind some bushes. Then,
without wasting any time, he started to crawl back to where he
might have a view of the wooded side of the athletic field.

Perhaps, after all, the fears of the coach had been groundless. He
would spend a short time watching, and then, if nothing developed,
he could hasten home.

At the same time, the thought of how Clifford had been deceived
and beaten by the too free handling of their secret code, gave
Frank an uneasy feeling.

When he had gained a position that would allow him to observe the
ground he deemed most suspicious, he waited for developments.

"What was that?" he asked himself in another minute; for it seemed
to him that he had heard a sharp crack, as of a rotten branch
giving way.

Then his attention was attracted toward a certain spot, where
something had undoubtedly fallen to the ground. Eagerly he riveted
his eyes on the place, and in this way became aware of the fact
that something was certainly moving up among the branches of the
pine tree.

Then an object came heavily to the ground, rolled over once or
twice, and scrambled half erect. Though some little distance away,
Frank could see that this was no animal, but a human being, a boy
at that, who was rubbing his elbow furiously, as though it had
been smartly tapped in his fall.

No need to put a label on this fellow to signify what his presence
meant. Frank knew that he was looking on a spy, who had been
perched among the thick branches of that pine tree during the
better part of the afternoon, making notes of the signal play of
the Columbia eleven!

And he was now moving off, possessed of information that was of
tremendous value to the Clifford team!




CHAPTER VI

AT THE SINGING SCHOOL


Frank did not hesitate a minute. He believed that it was his duty,
if possible, to overtake the spy, and not only learn his identity,
but in some fashion make him promise not to reveal what he had
seen and heard.

He started as fast as he could, making allowances for the fact
that he did not wish to alarm the fellow too soon. The shades of
evening were not far away, since night comes early in mid-November,
and try as he would, he found it impossible to decide as to
whether the other was someone he knew or a stranger.

As he ran quickly over in his mind the list of those who would
come under the head of suspicion, he put them aside, one after
another. It was certainly not Lef Seller or Bill Klemm; another
look, and he was just as positive that it could not be either Asa
Barnes or Tony Gilpin.

Perhaps, after all, this cunning spy might be some enthusiast from
Clifford, who, believing that his team had suffered through
treachery on the preceding Saturday, when Bellport overwhelmed
them, wished to even matters by picking up Columbia's signals.

"As if two wrongs ever yet made a right," said Frank bitterly, as
he continued to chase after the unknown.

He was gaining rapidly. Still, in order to do so, he had to keep
his eyes fixed for the most part on the moving figure ahead, and
in this way was unable to properly watch his footsteps.

Consequently, it was not at all surprising when he suddenly
stepped on a stick that broke with a sharp twang. And, before he
could dodge behind a tree, the fellow beyond had turned his head.

Frank knew instantly that he was discovered. He had stood
perfectly still, in the hope that he might escape observation; but
when he saw the other take to his heels, he realized that it was
now destined to be a stern chase. So he, too, started to run at
top speed, which meant a hot pace, since Frank was something of a
sprinter on the cinder path.

At least, that turn on the part of the other had told him one
thing--it was no Columbia fellow who had played this miserable
trick upon the football squad; so undoubtedly he must belong in
Clifford.

Despite the efforts of the school authorities, there was always
more or less laying of wagers on these games. Driven away from the
racetracks by recent strict State legislation, it seemed that
those who made books were seeking all manner of sports, in order
to carry on their games of chance.

So Frank consoled himself in the belief that this might be some
agent of these gamesters, rather than a Clifford schoolboy
intending to take a mean advantage of the rival team.

He was outrunning the fugitive, and it looked as though, if the
chase were continued five minutes more, Frank was sure to overtake
him.

Then the road leading north toward the river was reached. To
Frank's disgust, he saw the other drag a bicycle out of some
bushes, and, while he made a swift rush, hoping to yet come upon
the fellow before he got away, it was only to see his intended
quarry spin off along the road.

Frank followed a short distance, still cherishing a faint hope
that something might happen to upset the other, but gradually the
figure of the fleeing spy began to vanish, and he had to give it
up.

The last he heard from the fellow was a sharp howl of derision.
Evidently his sudden coming on the scene had given the coward a
great scare, and he was now rejoicing over his narrow escape.

"Too bad that he got away," thought Frank, as he started across a
field to take a short-cut that would save him considerable in his
walk home. "I don't even know who he is. But, at any rate, this
settles the question of signals. We wouldn't dare use the old ones
now."

He made direct for the home of Buster Billings, where Coach
Willoughby was stopping, he being an old friend of the family.

"Hello, how did you make out?" was the way he greeted Frank when
the football captain was ushered into his room, where he was
dressing for dinner.

"You guessed right, sir," answered Frank, gloomily.

"Then there _was_ a spy around to pick up our signals?" asked
the coach, smiling.

"He was hidden up in that big dense pine tree, and I guess he
could see everything we did, as well as hear my signals. It's a
shame that we have to go up against such trickery as that, sir,"
declared Frank, warmly.

"That's all right. Remember what we concluded would come out of
this thing. If those Clifford players are small enough to take
advantage of this find, let them, that's all. We'll fix it so that
they'll make some tremendous blunders before they decide that
honesty is the best policy. But I'm glad you found out. Now, tell
me all about it, Frank," and the coach put both hands on the
shoulders of the young athlete, in whom he had taken great
interest.

Frank made a wry face.

"There isn't much to tell. No _veni, vidi, vici,_ about this,
for, while I came, and saw, I didn't conquer by a long shot. The
fellow dropped down out of the tree, and made off, with me tagging
behind. Then he discovered me, and ran. I followed suit, and was
rapidly overtaking him, when we reached the road that turns toward
the one along the river bank leading to the Clifford bridge."

"Yes, and then?" continued the coach, expectantly.

"I lost him! He had a wheel hidden in the bushes, and pedaled
away, giving me the laugh as he went out of sight. That's all,
sir," concluded Frank.

"Did you get a square look at the fellow?" inquired Mr.
Willoughby.

"Enough to make sure that he didn't belong in Columbia, so far as
I could tell. I guess he came from Clifford, all right, sir."

"Well, it makes little difference, so long as we know the signals
are off. Forewarned is forearmed, they say. Forget all about it,
my boy, and we'll fix matters so that we can profit from our
seeming misfortunes."

So Frank went home to clean himself, and eat his supper. The
consolation given by Coach Willoughby did much to cheer him up,
and he managed to put the ugly business out of his mind.

Indeed, he had a host of other things to bother him. The game on
the morrow, of course, meant much to an enthusiast like Frank.
Then, again, there was that strange matter in connection with
Minnie Cuthbert. Frank thought a good deal of Minnie, and they had
been great friends for a long time. To have her cut him dead was
bad enough, but to act as she did toward his sister Helen seemed
outrageous.

"There is something wrong about it," Frank said, as he dressed.
"Minnie isn't the kind of a girl to do such a thing unless she
believes she has a mighty good excuse. Well, I can't do anything
to bridge the gap. It must go on until something happens to bring
about an explanation. Until then it is my policy to simply leave
matters alone, and pay attention to my own affairs."

But when he got to thinking of how Lef Seller had on one other
occasion played a trick that, for a time, made trouble between
Minnie and himself, he shook his head wrath fully, and muttered
threats that boded no good to that prank-lover, should he prove to
be guilty in this present instance.

Helen, being a girl, knew how to disguise her feelings. She seemed
quite herself, and Frank could not help wondering if, after all,
she had cared more for Minnie than she did for Flo Dempsey, with
whom she intended seeing the great game on the morrow.

"Going to the meeting of the glee club to-night, Helen?" he asked,
after supper.

She looked at him with a smile.

"Why not? I'm just as fond of singing as ever. I hope you don't
mean to stay away for any reason, Frank?" came her quick reply.

That decided Frank. Any hesitation on the part of his sister, and
he meant to remain at home; for, somehow, he felt that he hardly
cared to mingle with the crowd, where Minnie must assuredly be,
since she was one of the leading singers.

"Why, sure. I guess a little relaxation from the strain will do
all of the team good. Some of the other fellows are going to come
in a bunch, with Ralph and Bones."

"What is that for?" asked Helen, who could see from the smile that
crossed his face that there was a reason.

"Oh, it's just like the class spreads, where they want to break
the jollification up by kidnapping the president; some fellows are
after our two new recruits, that's all," he replied.

"But this is different. Why should any Columbia boy want to kidnap
Ralph? It would spoil the game to-morrow, and perhaps defeat our
school."

"And that's just what these fellows would like to see. A case of
sour grapes with them. But we're going to protect our men to the
limit," declared Frank.

"How mean and contemptible of them! They ought to be ashamed of
themselves."

"Well," said Frank, soothingly, as he saw how the indignant girl
took it to heart in connection with Ralph, "Never mind now, but go
and get your things on. We might as well make a start now. You
know, we don't practice to-night at the school, because they're
fixing the ceiling in the assembly room. It's to be at Dyckman's
Hall."

"I promised that we would drop around and take Flo with us,"
remarked Helen, with a quick look upward, and a little smile.

"Oh, well, it doesn't matter; that is, it won't take us much out
of our way," returned Frank.

"No, it isn't so far as the Cuthbert's," and with this parting
shot, Helen ran upstairs, leaving Frank to ponder over her
meaning.

The glee club usually met in the hall at the high school. It was
connected with the educational department, in that the school
authorities encouraged its existence, for the study of music was
along the lines of the ordinary duties of the classes.

Of course, when fifty or more young people come together of an
evening, they are bound to make merry. Consequently there was
always an air of jollity connected with these weekly singing
society meetings throughout the winter months.

Both Bones Shadduck and Ralph West were present. They showed up
with a bunch of others, and secretly Ralph reported to Frank that
they had seen no sign of the enemy while on the way thither.

"But don't let that make you careless," retorted the other, "for
these chaps are as cunning as Indians, who always attack, they
say, just before dawn, when the men on guard are apt to be sleepy.
Watch out, Ralph. We need you too much to have you taking
chances."

But the evening passed quickly, with the customary songs and
merriment. Minnie was, of course, present. She had come with
Dottie Warren, and once, when it chanced that she and Frank met
face to face, she looked annoyed because she had to speak.
However, Frank's nod was just as cold as her own.

He sang with even more vim than customary, just to show her that
he was not caring in the least. Still, there were curious eyes
that noted the breach, and more than one group of girls commented
on the fact.

"They've certainly had a falling out," said Emily Dodsworth, the
primp, and she tried to look horrified, even while secretly
pleased, because she was herself very fond of Frank. "Isn't it
dreadful, girls? But then I thought their friendship was too
sudden to last long. Perhaps Frank may understand now that 'old
friends are sure, old ties endure.'"

It was nearly ten o'clock, when the singing school was supposed to
close. Frank found himself wishing that it were over with.
Somehow, he felt very tired, though suspecting that his weariness
might be more of the mind than the body. Still, with that great
game to be won on the morrow, he believed that he ought to get
between the sheets as soon as possible now.

It was just at this time he saw Lanky Wallace heading toward him.
Lanky was not in the least a diplomat. Whenever he had anything
worrying him, the fact seemed to stick out all over his face,
bringing wrinkles to his usually placid brow.

It was so now. Immediately Frank began to scent trouble, though,
for the life of him, he could not understand just how it could
come while the boys were still at the singing school. Surely, none
of those schemers would dare sneak into the hall and kidnap either
of the two new recruits.

He hastily glanced around and heaved a sigh of relief when his
eyes fell on the figure of Ralph close by, as he chatted with
Helen and Flo. At least it could not be him.

"What's ailing you, Lanky?" he demanded, as the other rushed up to
him.

"It's Bones--they can't find him anywhere, and I guess he's been
carried off by some of those disgruntled chaps!" exclaimed the
other, with a look of dismay.




CHAPTER VII

THE ABDUCTION OF "BONES"


"What's that?" demanded Buster Billings, who happened to be
nearby.

"Goodness, they are saying poor Bones Shadduck has been
kidnapped!" exclaimed a shuddering girl, and the news was flashed
all through the several groups.

The singing for the evening was done. The Columbia High School
Glee Club had never before been so well attended. Time was when it
consisted of a baker's dozen of students, but there were an
unusually large number of good voices in the various classes this
year.

Frank was, of course, much worried by the news.

"Are you sure, Lanky? Perhaps he's just stepped out to saunter
around with one of the girls, like some of the others have done,"
he observed.

"Well, we thought of that, and hunted high and low. Why, even
Allie Sawyer, who generally takes up so much of his time, hasn't
seen him for ten minutes."

"So long as that?" answered Frank, with a smile; "but we must get
busy, and learn if any one saw Bones go out."

"I did!" spoke up a girl just then.

"When was this?" asked Frank, turning on her quickly.

"Not more than seven or eight minutes ago. I was standing in the
doorway, and had to move aside for him. And he spoke to me, too,"
came the reply. "And what did he say?" continued the other.

"Why, you know Bones has a dog?"

"Yes, a bulldog named Kaiser."

"He brought him along to the hall to-night," continued the girl.

"That's a fact, Frank; for the ugly brute came near taking a hunk
out of my leg when, by the merest chance in the world, I happened
to rub up against him!" declared Tom Budd, the boy gymnast, who
was constantly doing stunts, as though possessed of an insatiable
desire to stand on his head, walk on his hands, or throw
somersaults.

"The dog was howling, oh, so mournfully," continued the girl. "I
heard him, and it really got on my nerves. Well, I guess it acted
the same way with Bones, for he said that he was going out and
remonstrate with Kaiser."

Frank and Lanky exchanged glances.

"Told you so!" declared the latter, triumphantly.

"Well, it certainly looks as though there might be something in
it. Bones must have forgotten the warning, in his sudden desire to
stop the howling of the dog. He went out, and as he hasn't come
back, we'd better be looking after him. Come along, some of you
fellows. If they've carried him off, it's up to us to rescue our
right guard!"

There was an immediate rush made for the door of the hall.
Dyckman's was situated just on the outskirts of the town. It had
once been some sort of church, and was now used for a variety of
purposes connected with the life of the community, from political
meetings to dancing classes.

As the stream of boys poured out of the building, the howling of
the bulldog nearby became more furious than ever. It immediately
attracted the attention of the observant Frank.

"Hark!" he said, holding up his hand to indicate that silence
would be necessary if they hoped to succeed in accomplishing
anything worth while.

"What is it?" demanded Lanky, eagerly; "do you see Bones, or did
you hear him shout for help?"

"Neither. I was thinking of his dog," was the reply.

"What of old Kaiser, Frank? How does he come in this game?" asked
Buster.

"You can tell from the way he's acting that Bones has never been
near him. More than that, I believe the smart dog knows that
something has happened to his master, for he's just wild to get
free!" declared Frank.

"Sure as you live! Just listen to him growl and bark. I never
heard a bulldog do that before!" cried Ralph.

"Oh, Kaiser is only a half-breed mongrel, but looks like a full-blooded
bull. But an idea just occurred to me, fellows."

"Then let's have it, Frank. We're short of ideas at present, just
as we are of a bully good football player needed in to-morrow's
game. What is it?" asked Molly Manners, unduly excited by these
strange occurrences.

"Perhaps the dog might lead us to where Bones is!" said Frank.

"Say, now, that's just a crackerjack suggestion. Of course, he
will, if someone could only hold him in by his leash!" exclaimed
Lanky, with the light of anticipation shining on his face.

"Come on, let's try it!" shouted another fellow.

"But who's going to unfasten Kaiser, and hold him?" asked Frank,
always practical, even at such moments as this.

"Here's Buster, he knows the dog better than anyone else," said
Jack Eastwick, pushing the fat boy forward.

"Oh, yes, I've had an intimate acquaintance with him. He's tasted
of me three different times," declared the unwilling candidate for
honors.

"Still, he knows you?" said Jack, in a wheedling voice.

"Sure, and I think he likes me, which shows Kaiser has good taste.
But I'm willing to be the victim, if you'll all promise to see
that my remains are gathered up and given a fitting burial.
Everyone who likes a good show, this way, now. The only and
original dog-tamer is about to give an exhibition of how not to do
it."

Kaiser was acting in a very ugly way, as they approached the spot
where he had been tied up by his master, upon reaching the hall.
He jumped up and out in a furious manner, always in the one
direction, Frank noticed.

"You see, fellows, he pays no attention to us. His growls are for
someone else, and he is trying to break loose, in order that he
may chase after them. I shouldn't be surprised if we had some
success, after all. Do it, Buster. The whole world is looking to
you now as the hero of the occasion."

Buster gave Frank a plaintive look, as he bent down, and began to
speak soothingly to the furious dog.

"Listen to his soft soap talk, would you!"

"Buster knows how to lay it on; he's kissed the blarney stone!"

"Pat him, why don't you, old fellow; he likes the taste of you all
right!"

But to none of these suggestions did Buster pay the least heed. He
was working with the end of the rope all the time he talked so
soothingly to the brute. Frank suspected what might happen if this
suddenly came free when the dog was making one of his frantic
plunges. Consequently, he made sure to be ready to seize hold, so
as to assist the fat boy.

It was just as he thought. Only for the quick clutch he made, the
dog must have sped away like the wind, and they would have been as
badly off as before. But with the weight of the two boys on the
rope, even the powerful Kaiser was not able to go faster than the
crowd could follow.

"Ralph, keep close beside me!" called out Frank, who did not want
a second disaster to overtake them while trying to remedy the
first.

It was really a curious sight to see that crowd of boys rushing
over the territory adjoining Dyckman's Hall, following the pair
who pooled their strength in order to restrain the wildly eager
dog.

Frank quickly took note of a certain fact.

"We're heading for the water, fellows!" he exclaimed, as well as
he was able, while being tugged along by the erratic rushes of
Kaiser.

Nearly everyone knew what he meant. It was that the abductors of
Bones meant to duck him in the river, and treat him so harshly that
he would be in no condition to play in the morrow's game.

Still, that did not surprise anyone. They might easily have
expected just such an ending to the affair, knowing as they did
what conscienceless scamps were in all probability engineering the
kidnapping affair.

The dog had led them in almost a bee line for the river. Several
hundred yards had already been covered, without the least sign
being seen of those whom they fully believed must be ahead
somewhere.

"Ain't this fierce?" gasped Buster, as he held on to the rope
with a desperate clutch; indeed, but for the sustaining hand of
the more agile Frank, the fat boy must have fallen flat on his
face more than once as he tripped over obstacles in the way.

"Kaiser'll eat 'em alive if he gets half a chance! Listen to him
growl, will you? Don't let him loose, Frank, on your life, or
he'll just murder some of them!" exclaimed Jack Eastwick, who was
running alongside the two who gripped the leash.

"If Buster ever falls flat I'll never be able to hold on alone. Be
ready, somebody, to take hold!" was what Frank cried in return, as
he was dragged along by the furious rush of the dog, more eager
now than before.

But no one appeared to be particularly anxious to extend a helping
hand. The appearance of Kaiser was not at all reassuring, and
none of the boys fancied being "liked," as Buster admitted he was.

"Listen!" called Molly Manners, suddenly.

Everyone strained his ears. It required some effort to catch any
sound from beyond. Kaiser was making such terrible noises as he
ran, and the rush of many feet over the ground rather deadened
anything else. Still, between times they caught what seemed to be
boisterous laughter, accompanied by a loud splashing, as of
somebody being cast into the river, to be hauled out again, only
to have the operation repeated.

"They're ducking Bones, that's what!" coughed Buster, in real
indignation.

Just then he struck some sort of obstacle that caused him to fall
flat on his stomach with a fierce grunt. Of course, the rope was
torn from his hands. And as the shock was too much for Frank to
stand, he, too, was compelled to release his clutch in order to
save himself from a bad tumble.

There was a furious burst of savage satisfaction from the tugging
dog at the end of the leash, and then he vanished from their
sight, running like mad!




CHAPTER VIII

THE LINE-UP WITH CLIFFORD


"Oh, won't they get it now!" cried Jack Eastwick.

"Keep on running, fellows. Some of them may be half killed, if
that dog gets hold of them! Faster, boys; faster!"

Frank himself increased his speed. He had no love for the
miserable cowards who, in order to gratify their private spite,
would cripple their school team until the enemy must have an easy
victory on the morrow. And yet he did not like to imagine what
terrible things might follow if Kaiser got in among the boys who
were treating his master so shamefully.

Perhaps they deserved whatever befell them; but Frank was himself
a boy, and in a position to understand the true meaning of such a
prank as was now being pulled off.

There had come a decided change in the racket ahead. No longer was
it hilarious shouting and jeering, such as indicated sport for
the boys, but something else to the human frog. True, the sounds
had even grown in volume, but they were of a more serious nature.

"Listen to 'em howl, would you?" cried Lanky.

"The shoe's on the other foot, now. Wow! ain't they getting nipped
hard, though?" shouted Herman Hooker, hardly knowing whether to be
pleased or frightened.

"Faster!" gritted Frank, between his teeth, for he did not like
those shouts.

Possibly the boys had picked up clubs, and were trying to beat
Kaiser off, in order to continue their cruel sport of tossing poor
Bones into the water, and pulling him out again by means of a rope
fastened around his ankles.

Now the runners were close upon the spot.

"They're scattering!" called Lanky, as the shouts appeared to come
from various localities.

"And I think Bones has got hold of the dog. I can hear someone
speaking to him, and trying to quiet the brute!" gasped Paul Bird,
who was also a keen runner, able to "keep up with the procession"
as well as the next fellow.

"That's true. Hold on to him, Bones, old fellow!" Frank managed to
shout.

A dozen seconds later, and they came upon the river bank. The half
moon up in the western sky gave enough light to show them how
matters stood.

"Hurrah! Kaiser cleared the decks! The last of the pirate horde
has fled!" cried Amiel Tucker, whose reading was always along the
old-time romances.

"And there's our friend Bones, all to the good, fondling that
bristly terror! I say, three Bones for cheers!" shouted Red
Huggins, known among his mates also as "Sorreltop," and who, when
greatly excited, often became twisted in his mode of speech.

They clustered around, while Kaiser growled deeply, and licked the
face of his young master. Jones was soaked to the skin, and
already shivering, though possibly more from the nervous strain
than the cold.

Frank immediately took off his own coat, and threw it over the
shoulders of the boy who had been ducked again and again.

"What happened to you, Bones?" asked Lanky, who always wanted to
know the full particulars, for he expected some day to branch out
as a shining light in the legal profession, and believed he ought
to practice while young.

"They jumped me, that's all," chattered the other, trying to
laugh.

"When you went out to quiet your dog?"

"Yep. I hadn't gone half way when they pounced on me. Couldn't let
out more'n a little peep when they covered my head with some sort
of old horse blanket, and grabbed hold of me. After that it was
all over. I heard good old Kaiser carrying on to beat the band.
Oh, how I did wish he could break loose! Wouldn't he have
scattered the bunch, though!" observed Bones, as he calmly
accepted a second coat offered by another sympathizer.

"Which he did in the end, anyway. Say, what did he do to those
sharks?" demanded Buster, coming panting up at this moment.

"You missed the sight of your life. They were having a grand good
time dousing me in the drink, you see, when, all of a sudden,
Kaiser burst among them. Such whooping and howling I never heard
in all my life! You'd sure thought a lunatic asylum had broken
loose, boys," and Bones laughed as well as he could between
shivers.

"And then what?" persisted Lanky.

"Oh, they scooted like fun. Some went one way and others tumbled
into the river, they were so badly scared. I think Kaiser nipped a
few of the bunch before he ran over to lick my face, and I got a
cinch hold on his collar. Only for that, he'd have gone back
again, and mauled a few that couldn't run fast enough. But how did
you come to think of putting him on the scent, fellows?"

"Give Frank here the credit for the bright thought," said Paul.

"Yes, he's all to the good when it comes to a question of doing
something in an emergency. The balance of us were jumping around
like so many chickens with their heads off, when he suggested that
Kaiser would lead us to the place where you were. It was a grand
idea, and it worked, too," remarked Lanky, warmly.

"Oh, piffle! Cut that out. If I hadn't thought of it, somebody
else would have, in about a second. I just happened to get in
first, that's all. But we must rush Bones home in a hurry, before
he takes cold. A chill just now would knock him out of the game
to-morrow, and hurt our chances of a win," with which Frank
assisted the wet victim of the kidnappers to his feet.

Bones protested, but they would not listen to him. He was rubbed
down with many willing hands, and patted and pounded in a way to
start his circulation going at fever heat.

Kaiser hardly knew what to think of all this good-natured
tussling, and many times growled his disapprobation, so that a
word from his master was needed to influence him not to sink those
gleaming teeth in the limbs of Buster or Lanky.

All the while they were making for town. Fortunately, Bones did
not live a great distance off, and by making haste, they presently
reached his house.

Buster volunteered to remain over with him and see that he was
properly looked after.

"Somebody explain to Mattie King just why I can't get back!" he
called out.

"Oh, don't bother yourself about that, Buster," remarked Jack
Eastwick, coolly, "for I'd already made up my mind to see her
home."

"You have? I've got half a notion--but, no, this once won't count.
It isn't often you get a show, Jack, so improve the shining
opportunity," answered Buster, from the stoop of the Shadduck
home.

Of course, as the crowd wended its way back to the hall where the
glee club had met for this one occasion, while the assembly room
in high school was being repaired, the talk was wholly upon the
late "unpleasantness."

"It certainly was that to those chumps," laughed Lanky. "Oh, how
much we missed in not being on the spot! All Buster's faults for
stumbling when he did, and letting go of the rope. Why under the
sun didn't he hold on with a death grip?" demanded Tom Budd.

"Hold on? Goodness gracious, that dog would have dragged him over
every rock and stump for a mile. A pretty sight he'd have been
after that. I think Buster showed the finest judgment of his life
in knowing when to _let go_!" said Lanky.

"Yes, that's so. They say a stitch in time saves nine. Think how
many stitches would have been needed to sew Buster up if he needed
mending," spoke up Sorreltop.

When finally they arrived at the hall, the girls, and those among
the boys who had failed to join in the hunt, were, of course, just
wild to hear about what had happened.

Everything else was, for the time being, forgotten, as they
clustered around and excitedly demanded that the facts be given.

One told a portion, and another took up the recital. In this
fashion, by degrees, the entire story was made known. Nor were the
boys at all backward about giving the credit for the ingenious
thought to Frank, who laughingly tried to declare that he deserved
no more applause than the balance of the flock.

"They're all good fellows, every one, and as much deserving of
your praise. We are of the opinion that there will be several
limps noticeable at the game to-morrow, so if you happen to
observe any fellow making a face as he walks, just whisper one
word in his ear in passing. Do you know what that word is?" he
asked.

"Kaiser!" they roared in concert.

"Oh, Kaiser, don't you want to buy a dog?" sang Jack Eastwick, and
amid much laughter and merry exchange of talk, the glee club
disbanded for that evening.

Ralph walked home with Frank and Helen. Others among the boys
persisted in hovering near them, greatly to the annoyance of
Ralph, and the amusement of the girl, who thought it something of
a joke.

Frank had Flo Dempsey on his arm, and seemed to be unusually
merry. To tell the truth, though, considerable of this was
assumed. He happened to know that just back of them, Minnie
Cuthbert and her new friend, Dottie Warren, were walking, and
undoubtedly they could hear much that was being said.

That night, when alone in his room, Frank seemed to lose much of
his merry demeanor. His face took on the grave look that had
characterized it of late, ever since that minute when Minnie had
given him the cruel cut direct.

"I wonder will I ever know what is the matter?" he mused, as he
undressed, preparatory to tumbling into his inviting bed; "or must
it always remain a deep mystery. I never thought she could treat a
fellow that way, cutting him out without giving him the least
chance to explain. But I'm not going to complain. They say there
are as good fish in the sea as ever yet were caught."

With this philosophical reflection, he jumped into bed. Having a
good control over himself, Frank was able to go to sleep. In this
way, when he awoke in the early morning, he was refreshed and
feeling splendid, so easily does youth recuperate.

"Anyhow, it's going to be a sharp day. That air feels like snow,
only the sky is clear. Great football weather! I wonder how it
will all come out," and hustling into his clothes, he immediately
went out to the place arranged for the secret meeting to practice
signal work.

The others were soon on hand, and under the coaching of the
experienced old Princeton graduate, they went through all their
paces with a cleverness that caused their trainer to nod his head
in satisfaction.

"That's enough, boys," he said, warmly. "You've got your work cut
out for you to-day, and it would be poor policy to tire you at
this early hour. Back to the house now, and eat a breakfast such
as I laid out for you; nothing more, mind. Everyone of you must
consider himself at the training table now, until that game with
Bellport is over with on Thanksgiving morning. That's all!"

When, about ten o'clock, Frank reached the athletic grounds, clad
in his soiled suit and with his entire bunch of players along, he
found that a tremendous crowd had swarmed over the big field,
fully equal to any that had witnessed the hard-fought baseball
battles during the preceding Spring and early Summer.

It was an enthusiastic crowd, too, shouting until the sound was
not unlike the roar of a tempest. Thousands of miniature flags
were waving, representing both schools. There were also many from
Bellport present, some to enjoy the game, others to get points
with regard to the playing of the Columbia eleven, against which
their own team expected soon to be pitted.

"Ain't this the greatest sight ever?" asked Lanky, as they came
upon the field, and the waving flags and handkerchiefs made the
grandstand look like a vast flower garden in a strong wind.

"Columbia! _Veni! vidi! vici!_ to-day we swallow the
rooster!" came a concerted shout, as Herman Hooker got his cheer
band in working order.

The emblem of the Clifford school was a rooster, while that of
Columbia, like Princeton, was the tiger.

Immediately the Columbia fellows began booting an old ball about,
and falling on it with reckless abandon, just as they had been
taught to do by the coach.

"Look there, will you!" exclaimed a girl close to Minnie Cuthbert
in the grandstand. "How nice and white the suits of Clifford
seem, while our boys are dirty. They ought to be ashamed, I should
think. We have just as good a laundry in Columbia as they have up
above."

But to those who knew more about such things there was an
atmosphere of strictly business about the soiled suits of Frank's
team. They looked as though they were on the field for hard work,
and not to show off, or "play to the gallery."

And the wise ones took stock of this fact. Some of the sporting
men even began to hedge in their bets, and might have tried to
even up all around, only that they happened to know of a secret
upon which they were building great hopes.

And that secret concerned the signal practice of the Columbia
eleven!

The Clifford boys were continually waving their hands to some
people in the crowd they recognized. There was an air of assurance
about them that seemed to loudly proclaim the fact that they
anticipated no great trouble in putting the "Indian sign" on
Columbia.

On the other hand, the home team seemed to notice nothing, save
the fact that the ball was there to be shot around, and tumbled on
heavily. They had a grim look, too, and in vain did the girls try
to attract their attention, for it was rarely that one of the
eleven so much as turned a look toward the spectators. All of
their time was taken up in play, and observing their rivals.

"Just wait, and we'll dirty those sweet white suits some,"
chuckled Lanky, as he passed the ball like lightning to Shadduck.

Minnie was watching one player intently. For the first time in a
long while he did not look along the rows of faces until he saw
her waving wildly, and doff his cap, or in this case, wave his
hand, since he had no cap to lift.

She trembled with secret delight as she finally saw Frank raise
his head when the ball was in another quarter. But when he made a
motion with his hand, it was in a different direction entirely,
and looking over, Minnie saw that Helen and Flo Dempsey sat there.

"They're getting ready to line-up. See, the referee has the two
captains over by him. It's going to be a toss for position," cried
one eager spectator.

"Not much choice to-day, though, since the wind is light,"
returned another.

"But there always is one side better than the other. The sun will
be in the eyes of the fellows who lose. That may count for
something. And the breeze may grow stronger as the game goes on.
There, Frank has won, for he's taking his men to the lower goal.
But that gives Clifford the kick-off. That looks bad."

"Oh, I don't know. It will only spur them on to working a little
harder. Wait and see. I've got a hunch that Frank Allen has a
surprise or two up his sleeve for these gay white birds from up
river. I'm not worrying. I've seen that boy on the baseball field,
and on the river in the boat races. He is all there with the
goods, and they're a full yard wide. You hear me!" and the
enthusiast jumped to his feet, to flap his elbows as though they
were wings, while he emitted a shrill crow that caused a laugh to
break out in the immediate vicinity.

"Now we're going to se some fun!" called a fellow who was waving
the colors of Clifford with great vim.

And under the eyes of thousands of eager spectators, the rival
elevens took the places assigned to them to await the signal for
play.




CHAPTER IX

A HARD FOUGHT FIRST HALF


Although there might be changes at any time during the progress of
a fiercely contested game, the line-up at the start was as
follows:


                       _COLUMBIA._


                         Comfort.
                         _F.B._


          Allen, Captain.               West.
           _R.H.B.                    L.H.B._


                         Wallace.
                        _Q.B._


Shadduck. Oakes. Harper. Bird.   Daly.   Eastwick.   Morris.
 _R.E.    R.T.   R.G.  Center.  L.G.    L.T.        L.E._


                       _CLIFFORD._


Evans.    McQuirk. Roe.  Gentle.   Ross.  Adkins.     Smith.
 _L.E.    L.T.   L.G.  Center.   R.G.    R.T.      R.E._


                         Style.
                        _Q.B._


          Coots.                        Wentworth.
        _L.H.B.                        R.H.B._


                        Hastings, Captain.
                         _F.B._


Clifford was to kick off.

Hastings, the big captain, stood there, poising himself for the
effort, and every eye was glued upon his really fine figure. Hastings
knew it, and purposely lingered just a trifle longer than he would
have done had there been no mass of spectators hedging in the field
on all sides in a solid bank of humanity.

There was a shrill whistle, the referee's signal, and it called
into life the twenty-two motionless figures that stood about the
field. Big Hastings ran forward, glancing sharply about to see
that his men were on the alert, and the next moment his shoe made
a great dent in the side of the new yellow ball. Away it sailed
into the air, far over toward Columbia's territory.

Straight toward Lanky Wallace, the plucky little quarter-back, it
came, and Wallace was right under it. Into his arms, with a
resounding "pung!" the spheroid landed, and, like a flash, the
quarter passed it to Jack Comfort for a return kick.

Comfort's toe found the pigskin as if his shoe belonged there, and
back through space went the twisting oval, in a long spiral curve,
while the cohorts of both teams loosed the yells that had been
long on tap.

"Oh, wow!"

"Pretty work!"

"That's the stuff, old man!"

"Fine footwork!"

These cries of encouragement to both sides were soon lost in the
riot of cheers and appeals to the teams to "go in and win!"

Big Hastings once more had the ball, and booted down the field
with a tremendous, smashing kick. Lanky and Oakes ran to get under
it, with good intentions, but with misdirected energy, and
collided forcefully, while the ball bounced from Lanky's shoulder
and rolled along the ground, a prize for whoever could first get it.

"A miss!"

"By jove, our fellows have lost the ball!"

"Get to it, Columbia!"

Exclamations of dismay, and frantic appeals came from a thousand
throats. Like mad the whole twenty-two players darted for the
yellow spheroid.

There was a mixup, a confused mass of struggling forms, an
indiscriminate whirlwind of waving arms and legs, and then, after
the frantic blowing of the referee's whistle, and when, slowly,
player after player crawled off the heap, Frank emerged, somewhat
bruised and dazed, but with the precious ball tucked under his
arm.

"Oh, good!"

"Fine, old man!"

"Columbia's ball!"

"Frank's got it, all right! That's the stuff. Did you see him
slide right in front of Ross, their husky right guard, and cover
it? Say, this is a little bit of all right--all right!" cried an
enthusiastic follower of Columbia.

It was on Columbia's twenty-five yard line now, rather closer to
the goal than Captain Frank liked, but he resolved to get right
into the play now, and called for the line-up. There was a
whispered conference between Wallace and Allen, and then the
quarter began calling the signal, emphasizing the first number. A
thrill seemed to run through the Clifford players, and when Paul
Bird snapped back the ball to the captain, instead of to the
quarter, who, all along, had acted as if he meant to take it,
there was a sudden rush on the part of Clifford, but it was too
late.

They had prepared for a play around their left end, but Frank
quickly passed the pigskin to Ralph West, the left half, who
sprang forward on the jump, and tore through a hole made between
the unsuspecting right guard and tackle of Columbia's opponents.
Through Ralph plowed, heaving and plunging his way, aided by a
splendid interference, knocking aside Wentworth, the opposing
right half, and struggling forward for a good gain.

"Oh, look at that, would you! Look! Look! He'll get a touchdown!"

"Touchdown nothing!" growled a disgusted Cliffordite, "What's the
matter with our fellows, anyhow, to be fooled like that?"

"Guess they read our signals wrong!" retorted the admirer of
Columbia High, with a chuckle.

"Oh, wow! Look at that! Hastings nailed him that time!"

Ralph had gone down under a fierce tackle by the big opposing
captain, but the plucky left half had made a good gain, and, as he
rose and held his hand on the ball until Bird came up to take it,
there was an outburst of cheers that warmed his heart.

"Good work, old man!" whispered Frank, as he ran up. "We fooled
'em that time!"

Herman Hooker led his gallant band of shouters in an impromptu
war-dance back of the grandstand, their frenzied shouts of joy at
the splendid play sounding loud above the other yells.

Then came quiet, while the players again lined up, and the calling
of the signals could plainly be heard across the gridiron. It was
useless for Clifford to listen, if, perchance, she had sneakingly
obtained a line on the play system of Columbia, for Lanky was
using the changed code, and only he and his men knew it. Slowly
he called off. It was an indication for Frank to take the ball, on
a try around right end.

Back came the oval with a clean snap, and the next moment Frank,
with it firmly tucked under his arm, was circling around Evans,
while Oakes, Harper and Shadduck had gotten into play on the jump,
and had successfully pocketed their opposing end tackle and guard.

Forward leaped Frank, with Shadduck and Oakes forming splendid
interference for him. Down the line they sprinted, while once more
the frenzied shouts broke forth:

"Touchdown! Touchdown!"

"Go it, old man! Go it!"

It began to look as if Frank would score, for big Hastings was the
only man available to tackle him, as the other two backs had
played in so far that they were now hopelessly in the mixup of
tangled figures.

"Go on! Go on!"

"Yes he will! Wait until Hastings tackles him!" this from a
boastful Clifford player.

Hastings was waiting for the man with the ball, but Frank was
running behind Shadduck and Oakes now, and they were on the alert.
Hastings made a dive between them, seeking to come at Frank, and
for one fearful moment there was fear in the hearts of his friends
that the plucky right half would be downed. But Oakes fairly threw
himself at the big opposing captain, and the two went tumbling in
a heap, thus ending any chance Hastings had of tackling the man
with the ball.

Amid such yells as were seldom heard on the gridiron, Frank,
accompanied by Shadduck, whose interfering services were no longer
needed, touched the ball down exactly in the middle of the line,
behind the two posts, while the straggling Clifford players
straggled madly down the field, but too late. Behind them came
their leaping, dancing and exulting opponents.

"Touchdown! Touchdown!"

"Oh, you, Allen!"

"Great work, old man! Great work!" And indeed it was a splendid
run.

Such shouting and yelling as there was! Herman Hooker and his band
of "Indians" were hoarse with their efforts thus early in the
game, but gallantly they kept at it. There was a little silence
while the Clifford players lined up back of their goal posts, and
then Ralph West kicked goal, the ball sailing true between the
posts, and making the score six to nothing in favor of Columbia.

"That's the stuff! That's going some! Keep it up, you Columbia
Tigers, we're all proud of you!" hoarsely called a big man,
stamping about and waving his cane adorned with Columbia colors.
He had graduated from the old school twenty years before, and he
had never lost his love for it, nor for her sons of the gridiron.

There was an exchange of punts on the next kick-off, and when that
sort of playing was over, Clifford had the pigskin on Columbia's
thirty-yard line.

"Now, fellows, go through 'em!" grimly called Hastings, and Style
began to give the signals in a snappy voice. In another instant
Wentworth, the Clifford right half, hit the line with a tremendous
smash, going for a hole between Eastwick and Daly. Their mates
rallied to their support, but there was smashing energy in the
attack of Columbia's opponents, and hold as Frank and his players
desperately tried to, they were shoved back, and Wentworth had
gained four yards.

"Another like that!" called Hastings. "Go to 'em, now! Eat 'em
up!"

Once more a smashing attack, and three yards more were reeled off
around Shadduck's end.

"This won't do, fellows!" said Allen, seriously. "We've got to
hold 'em!"

"How's that? Guess we're going some now, eh?" demanded a Clifford
admirer, who sat next to Mr. Allen.

"Yes, you have a good team," was the answer. "But our boys are
only letting you do this for encouragement."

"Oh, ho! They are, eh? Just watch."

Indeed, it looked a little dubious for Columbia. Her players were
being shoved back for loss with heart-stilling regularity. There
was no need for Clifford to kick, and all of Frank's frantic appeals
to his men to hold seemed of no avail.

There was somewhat of a bitter feeling when, after some tremendous
line-smashing, Coots, the left half, was shoved over the line for
a touchdown, and that gave the cohorts of Clifford a chance to
break loose. They did not kick the goal, however, and that was
some encouragement for Columbia, since it left them one point to
the good.

Once more came the kick-off, and then, when Columbia had the ball,
and had lined up, she went at her opponents with such smash-bang
tactics, such hammer-and-tongs work, that she tore big gaps in the
wall of defense, and shoved player after player through. Frank was
sent over for a seven-yard gain, then came a fine run on the part
of Ralph, netting eighteen yards, while the crowd went wild. There
was grim silence on the part of the Clifford adherents as the
line-up came on the ten-yard mark, and then, amid a great silence,
Comfort smashed through for another touchdown.

"Oh, wow! How's that? Going some, I guess, yes!" howled the big
man, who had been a player in his youth. "Oh, pretty work!"

The goal was missed, for the ball had been touched down at a bad
angle, but the score was now eleven to five in favor of Columbia,
and there were still several minutes of play left in the first
half.

There was only a chance for an exchange of kicks however, ere the
referee's whistle blew, signifying that time was up, and the
players, who were just ready for a scrimmage, with the ball in
Clifford's possession on her opponent's fifteen-yard line,
dissolved, and raced for their dressing rooms.




CHAPTER X

A SCENE NOT DOWN ON THE BILLS


Columbia enthusiasm broke out louder than ever when the
intermission between the two halves was called. Their boys had
thus far not only held their own, but scored more than twice as
heavily as the enemy.

Still, the Clifford enthusiasts did not appear to be downcast.

"Wait," they kept saying mysteriously on all sides, while shouts
of encouragement went out to Hastings and his doughty warriors.

"What do they mean by that?" asked Mr. Allen, of the man from
above, who sat near him on the bench of the grandstand.

"Well, Clifford is a slow team to get started. They always do
better in the second half of a game. That with Bellport was a
fake, because their signals had been given away. They learned this
when the first half had been played. It made them savage. The
result was Bellport didn't score again, and Clifford made a few
points before the end came. They'll wake up presently!" was the
confident reply.

Among the most enthusiastic of the vast crowd was Minnie Cuthbert.
She waved her little banner and joined her voice in the general
clamor, for the mad excitement had seized girls as well as boys
and men.

And yet all the while she seemed to have eyes for no one but the
agile captain of the Columbia team. Wherever he happened to be,
her gaze was either openly or covertly upon him.

Again she saw Frank wave his hand cheerily, and looking in the
direction where his attention seemed to be directed, she
discovered that Helen and Flo Dempsey were flourishing bouquets of
flowers made up of purple and gold, to illustrate the school
emblem.

And, moreover, Minnie understood full well that these had
undoubtedly come from the conservatory of the Allens. Somehow, it
pained her to know it. From that time on she resolutely set her
eyes toward anyone on the field, so long as it was not Frank.

There was much consultation during the rest spell. Coaches and
captains had their heads together, trying to ascertain if it were
possible to strengthen their teams by bringing in a fresh man as
substitute.

Several had been more or less injured in the fierce mass plays,
and were showing it, despite their efforts to appear natural. Not
for worlds would anyone of them express a desire to be taken out
of the game. If the captain decided against their continuing, well
and good, for he was the sole judge of a man's fitness; but each
fellow believed he could still carry himself to the end.

The general excitement was such that a man might be seriously hurt
and not be aware of it, buoyed up, as he was, with the wild desire
to accomplish glorious things for the school he loved.

"How are you feeling, Bones? Any bad result from your immersion in
the cool drink last night," asked Lanky, as he and the right guard
came together.

"Not an atom, glad to say. You fellows saved me by your prompt
action, and the general rubbing down I had after the rescue. True,
my left wing feels sore to the touch after that slamming I got
when I went down with the ball over their fifteen-yard line, and a
dozen fellows piled on top; but I don't think it's broken, and I
haven't said anything to Frank, because I'm afraid he'd yank me
out."

Lanky carefully massaged the arm in question, eliciting a few
grunts from the stoical player under the process.

"Only bruised, old fellow. By the way, have you noticed any
limpers around this morning--among the spectators, I mean?" he
remarked, whimsically.

"Sure, two of them, Jay Tweedle and Bill Klemm," laughed the other
immediately. "They hustled away when they saw me looking, and it
was all they could do to keep the agony off their faces. But it
would have to be more than a mere dog bite to keep any fellow with
red blood in his veins away from a scrap on the gridiron like
this, though I reckon both of them are hoping to see Clifford win,
hands down."

"Well, there's another poor chap limping somewhere around the
grounds--Asa Barnes. Good old Kaiser must have put his teeth in
his calf pretty sound, for you can see the tear in his trousers'
leg. That was a great time, and I envy you the privilege of having
seen it. What a scattering of the boasters, and all on account of
one dog!"

"Yes, Lanky, but _such_ a dog! He thinks the world of me.
Why, I could hardly tear myself away from him this morning, he
wanted to come with me so bad. After this you needn't ever think
of giving me a guard; Kaiser can fill that position up to the
limit," said Bones, proudly, as became the owner of such a
wonderful canine.

"Time's nearly up. Are we going to bring any new horse out of the
stable? Did any fellow make serious blunders? Is anyone hurt?"
asked Lanky.

"If they are, they keep it to themselves. But there's Shay coming
out, while Eastwick goes to the seats. I was a little afraid that
Jack might prove too light as a tackler. Why, twice he failed to
bring his man down, and was carried more than a few yards before
another fellow caught on. Shay ought to be an improvement."

"What do you think, so far, Bones?"

"We've about held our own, that's comforting," was the reply.

"But the score isn't as big as I hoped it would be," expostulated
Lanky.

"Yes, but we owe that first touchdown and goal to the fact that
Clifford was confused with the signals you called. They thought
they meant the old version, and rushed to meet the play. That gave
us almost a clear field."

"I guess you're right," returned Lanky, thoughtfully.

"Now, see where we stand. They got a clear touchdown, and were
over our fifteen-yard line when play was called. I tell you, we're
going to have our work cut out to score again, and you can see
that every fellow of the opposition is out for blood. To be licked
by Bellport hurt; a second drubbing is next to unthinkable with
them. Mark my words, they'll die hard!"

"Bones, you're right. We've got to do our level best in the
second half. Once let us develop a weak spot, and they'll aim for
that every rush. There's Frank calling to me again. Five minutes
more, and we'll be at it, hammer and tongs," and Lanky hurried
away to where the captain stood, with the very last word in the
way of orders.

The line of play had been decided on long before. This had been
arranged in accordance with what they knew about Clifford's line-up.
Just as Lanky had declared, once let a weak place show, and from
that minute on the opposition bends every effort toward pushing
the ball in that quarter, until, finally, the defense gives way,
and the oval is carried triumphantly across the line.

Gradually the players began to take their places again. Clifford,
too, showed a new face; Hollingsworth being substituted in place
of Evans, as right end, the other having been injured in a
scrimmage, thought not enough to get out at the time.

It was Columbia's kick-off this time, and Jack Comfort was the one
to do the honors which would inaugurate the second half of the
game. Just as he stood there ready to make the first move, the
picture was one that would never be forgotten by the thousands who
witnessed it.

Every breath seemed hushed. A mighty silence hung over the wide
field, as eyes were riveted on the crouching figures, whose faces,
so far as seen, because of the disfiguring head harness, showed
the earnestness that possessed each soul.

It was at this critical moment that suddenly loud shouts arose.
They seemed to come from behind the grandstand, and quickly
swelled in volume, until it was a deafening roar that broke forth.
Frank called out something, and the referee instantly blew his
whistle, to signify that delay was imperative until the cause of
all this row could be ascertained and the noise quelled. It was
simply impossible to continue the game while so much racket held,
as the players would be wholly unable to hear the signals.

But now the tenor of the wild cries began to be understood.
Players looked at each other in blank dismay. Never before had
they heard of a football game having been interrupted by such a
strange and terrible cause.

"Mad dog! Mad dog!"

That was what the people were shrieking over and over. The entire
mass of spectators seemed to be writhing as they leaped to their
feet. Faces grew white with sudden fear. Women and children cried
and shrieked, and hands were wrung in the abandon of despair.

It was easy to discover the immediate scene of the disturbance,
for there the lines swayed more violently than elsewhere. People
crushed back against each other, forgetting all else in the frenzy
of fear that possessed them. What could be more terrifying than
the coming of a mad dog in the midst of such an assemblage of
merrymakers, out for a grand holiday?

"Run, you fellows; he's heading out on the field! Get a move on
you!" roared a voice through a big megaphone.

It was, of course, the wonderful cheer captain, Herman Hooker,
who thus gave warning of the coming peril. Indeed, his cry was
hardly needed, for the two elevens could mark the passage of the
terror by the swaying back of the lines upon lines of spectators,
all of whom seemed to be possessed of a wild desire to climb up
on the highest seats, so that the panic was fierce.

Then through the mass came the running beast, with his head close
to the ground, and trailing a chain behind him. His actions were
certainly queer, and well calculated to strike terror into the
timid hearts of the helpless ones gathered there to witness the
spectacle of a football contest, and not a mad dog hunt.

And running valiantly after the brute came Officer Whalen,
doubtless intending to attempt to shoot the animal when once he
found a chance.

Suddenly the raging brute uttered a series of fearful sounds, and
started directly for one of the players on the field, as though
intending to attack him first. The vast crowd shrieked all manner
of imploring directions, and unable to render assistance, just
stood there and looked and prayed.

But Frank Allen neither started to run nor moved to the aid of the
threatened player for he had discovered that the one who stood
there was Bones Shadduck, and in the leaping dog he had recognized
the persistent Kaiser!




CHAPTER XI

CLIFFORD'S LAST HOPE


"Why doesn't the fool run?" cried one man, quivering with
suspense.

"It's too late now! See, he's going to tackle the brute! He's got
his hands out ready! Gee! what nerve!" bellowed another, this time
from Clifford.

A third laughed harshly, for the strain had been beat on everyone.

"Its all off, fellows. That's _his_ dog!" he shouted.

"Well, I'll be hanged! Look at him jumping up to lick the boy's
face, will you? Did you ever? This takes the cake!"

The crowd had by this time discovered that it was a false alarm,
and by degrees the hysterical feeling wore off, though there were
many who would not soon forget the awful sense of fear that had
almost paralyzed their systems.

Kaiser had apparently broken loose long after Bones had left home,
and determined to find his beloved master, had trailed him to the
football field.

Possibly the faithful animal believed that there might be further
need of his services, and that there were more fellows in need of
trimming.

Of course the game had to be delayed until Bones could lead Kaiser
away, and secure him in a little room under the grandstand. The
crowd howled and cheered as he went by, and Shadduck grinned in
his usual happy fashion, feeling that for once at least he was in
the exact limelight--thanks to Kaiser!

Once more the two opposing teams faced each other on the field.
The rushers were crouched, ready to spring forward as soon as the
ball had been put into play. Comfort prepared to send in his best
kick, after which the whole field would be in motion in the mad
endeavor to urge the ball toward the goal of the opposing side.

Jack was a famous punter and also a gilt-edged drop-kicker. He had
a peculiar spiral kick that was calculated to be exceedingly
puzzling to the enemy. And since much depended upon how far he
sent the oval into the enemy's territory, all eyes were eagerly
glued upon him now.

"Plunk!"

Away sailed the ball with the most erratic motion the Clifford men
had ever seen in all their experience. Some ran this way, and then
suddenly changed their course, as they realized the deceiving
nature of the ball's aerial flight. But the Columbia ends knew
just how the full-back would send the ball, and they shot for the
spot, determined to reach there almost as soon as the enemy, and
cut short his advantage for a run.

Coots managed to catch the ball, and darted back with it, but was
downed, almost in his tracks, by a fierce tackle on the part of
Shadduck, who had slipped through the interference.

"Down!" howled Coots, after he had recovered his wind. The players
lined up, while Style began calling off the signals. The Columbia
players braced for the attack they knew would soon come. And come
it did. Their line tottered and wavered under the smashing impact,
but it held, and Wentworth was hurled back for a slight loss.

"That's the way to do it!" cried Frank, in delight. "Hold 'em
again, fellows, and they'll have to kick!"

Once more Clifford, in desperation, for she wanted to keep the
ball, tried for another advance, this time around her opponent's
left end. But Morris and Shay were on hand, and nailed the player
before he had gone two yards.

"They've got to kick!" came the cry, and indeed that was the only
play left for Clifford. Still, it might be a fake one, and Frank
signalled this to his men, so that they might be on the alert. But
Comfort ran away back, and it was well that he did, for the ball
was booted well into the Columbia territory.

The full-back caught it and managed to rush back fifteen yards
before he was fiercely downed.

"Now's our chance, fellows!" called Frank, while Paul Bird came
up, took the pigskin and waited for Lanky to give the signal.

"I-m-p-o-r-t-a-n-c-e!" spelled out the quarter.

Instantly after the last letter was given, there was a sudden
movement. The center had flashed the ball to Allen, who started
furiously around the outside of the Clifford line. West was
running diagonally, and passed him. Many did not notice that as
they crossed Frank dexterously passed the ball to Ralph, but kept
on running and dodging as though he still held it.

The trick was not a new one by any means, but when well done it
was apt to deceive at least a portion of the rattled opposition;
so that several of the Clifford players were, for the instant,
really in doubt as to which of the two half-backs carried the
ball.

Thus in the beginning the force of pursuers was divided. Ralph was
a sprinter, and could avoid interference in a manner that was
simply marvelous. He had the entire bunch against him, trying to
block his play, but with wonderful skill managed to dodge each in
turn, until when finally brought down he had reached the enemy's
ten-yard line!

A burst of applause from the eager spectators; then again
absolute silence, for once more the heavily breathing players had
gathered in battle array. Again came a hot scrimmage. The ball was
over the side lines now, and out of bounds. So it had to be
brought in. Clifford had it for a change, but the conditions were
desperate with them now, with their home goal close behind. Let a
Columbia player once get his hands on the oval, and the chances
were he could carry it over the line for a touchdown.

The man who did the thinking in this emergency knew his business.
When the next scrimmage was on, many of the spectators were
astonished to see a Clifford player jump away from the melee with
the ball in his grasp, and hurl himself deliberately across his
own line.

Immediately the crowd gave expression to their feelings. Some
cheered, while others groaned, as the play was understood best.

"Why, that man is a traitor to his team!" exclaimed one indignant
fellow.

A Columbia graduate, who happened to be sitting next to the
speaker, gave him a look of contempt, as he remarked:

"On the contrary he proved to have an exceedingly clever head on
him. Stop and think for just a minute. They were close up to
Clifford's goal. The chances were ten to one in that scrimmage
that Columbia would get the ball, and with the next play carry it
across the line. That meant a touchdown. Then if they could kick a
goal, as is likely, they would count six. As it is now, Columbia
gets only two because that quick-witted fellow put it over his own
line. More than that, the next play is back at the twenty-five
yard line; so you see how easily Clifford gets out of a bad
corner."

As little time as possible was lost getting in position again. So
eager were both sides to accomplish things that they begrudged the
fleeting seconds.

The tide of battle surged back and forth. Dozens of plays were
pulled off that it would take many chapters to describe. But what
cheered the enthusiasts of the home team was the fact that most of
the work was being done on hostile territory!

In between times when there was no need of silence the raucous
voice of Herman Hooker could be heard, as he led his band around
back of the crowd, and shouted again and again in unison the
thrilling yell of Columbia, with the intention of stirring the
blood in the veins of each player, and investing him with renewed
pluck and zeal.

As if it were needed, when each one of those sturdy champions had
already been keyed up to top-notch speed. Time was slipping away,
and despite the almost superhuman efforts of Clifford they could
not seem to get the ball over that strenuously defended line of
their opponents.

In vain did the rooters urge them on to renewed efforts. Columbia
seemed to have thrown up a stone wall in front of her goal lines,
and no matter what strenuous plays were called off they were met
with a stubborn tenacity that robbed them of results.

Only seven more minutes remained of the second half. Columbia
adherents were jubilant. They already began to discount a victory,
and were winding up preparatory to making the air ring with their
shouts.

The wise ones kept close watch of the play. They had known
occasions just like this when the winning team became over
confident, and the last few minutes witnessed their utter rout.

Would it happen so in this case? Clifford was exerting every
effort to bring about such a happy condition of affairs. Frank had
warned his men against the slightest slackening of speed or
vigilance. No game is won until the referee's signal announces
that the end has come.

Now the determined Clifford hosts had carried the ball over into
the territory of their rivals. Columbia was visibly weakening
before these fearful plunges, and it seemed as though flesh and
bone could not hold out against them. Seconds counted now. How
desperately Frank and his backers fought to ward off the
threatening evil. Every lawful tactic that would bring about delay
was brought into bearing. Twice had the ball gone out of bounds,
which necessitated a new alignment, and consequent passage of
those precious seconds.

Columbia was on the defensive; but it was a splendid exhibition of
harrying play they put up, thanks to the instructions of Coach
Willoughby. On their fifteen-yard line they faced the Clifford
crew for the last struggle. Despite the prediction of the man who
had declared them a great second-half team, Clifford had failed to
add to their score during the half hour that had elapsed, that
lone touchdown standing to their credit.

"Boys, we want a bigger score than this!" called Captain Allen
eagerly, when time was taken out to enable some wind to be pumped
back into Style. "We've got thirteen points, and they have five.
It's too close a margin. We've got time enough to make another
touchdown."

"If we can get the ball," added West.

"We've _got_ to get it!" cried the captain. "It's the first
down. Hold 'em, and throw the man with the ball for a loss if you
can. They may kick on the second down instead of waiting for the
third. Then we'll have 'em."

The whistle blew and Style came slowly back into the line. He was
pale and weak, as the manner in which he gave the signals showed.
There were anxious looks on the faces of his mates, and glances
of eager expectation on those of his opponents.

Wentworth came smashing for a hole he expected would be opened up
between Daly and Shay, but Shay was ready and did more than his
partner to block off the play. Wentworth was hurled back, and
there was a net loss of two yards to Clifford.

"Look out for a kick!" warned Frank.

It came, for Clifford was desperately afraid, and Comfort got the
ball. Tucking it under his arm, with head down, he started for the
goal line, well protected. The enraged Clifford players managed to
get at him, however, and he was downed after he had covered
fifteen yards. But it was a good run back, and Columbia had the
ball, and there were still several more minutes to play.

"At 'em now, fellows! Tear 'em apart!" cried Lanky Wallace.

He called for Ralph West to take the ball around Smith, as the
quarter had noticed the weak defense the right end was putting up.

Around circled West, and he made a good gain before he was downed.
Again came smashing plays--several of them, Columbia keeping
possession of the ball. In vain did Clifford brace and hold. It
was useless. She was being shoved right up the field. Her men were
exhausted and discouraged. Columbia's were eager and triumphant.

"Touchdown! Touchdown!" came the insisting cries from the
spectators. The ball was on Clifford's fifteen-yard line.

"Touchdown it is!" declared Wallace grimly.

He called his signal with snap and vim. Frank got the ball and
made a desperate dive for a big gap that was opened up between Roe
and McQuirk. Forward he staggered while Shadduck and Oakes managed
to circle around to form interference for him.

"He's through! He's through!" came the cry, and indeed the captain
was through the Clifford line, and legging it toward the goal.
Hastings started after him, but slipped and fell. Then, like a
flash, Wentworth emerged from the tangle of players and set off
after Allen. He came on like the wind, and managed to slip past
Shadduck, but Oakes was on the alert and tackled off the plucky
Clifford right-half.

Then it was all over but the shouting. With the fall of Wentworth
ended Clifford's hopes of preventing another touchdown, while as
for her own hopes of making one they had vanished some time ago.
Allen touched down the ball. Amid frenzied cheers the goal was
kicked, making the score nineteen to five in favor of Columbia.
There was preparation for another kick-off, but before it could be
made the whistle blew; and the game had passed into history.




CHAPTER XII

DR. SHADDUCK FEARS AN EPIDEMIC


"There he is!"

"Cut him off; he's trying to dodge us!"

"No you don't, Frank; we're just bound to give you a ride around.
These things don't happen every day. Up with him, fellows!"

Fully fifty wild Columbia students had gathered around the
captain, effectually blocking his escape from the field. Frank,
suspecting some such design, had tried his best to slip off
unobserved; but hundreds of eyes were on him, and even his fellow
players showed treachery, handing him over to the crowd.

He was immediately hoisted upon the shoulders of several brawny
chaps, and with a motley crowd following, after they set out to
parade the field, shouting the battle cry of the school, and
singing the famous song that always thrilled the hearts of
Columbia's patriotic sons and daughters.

Those who had remained in the grandstand cheered as the procession
swept past, and among these was Minnie Cuthbert. Frank never
looked that way once, she noted, and yet there had been a time,
not so very far back, when he would have thought of her the first
thing.

And yet Frank was perfectly conscious that she was standing there,
leaning over the railing, and watching the fun with eagerness.
Sometimes it is possible to see without looking direct.

When he could escape Frank hurried home. He was of course
overjoyed to realize that his team had won the game; but the
strain of those last ten minutes had been simply terrific. What
would it be with the Bellport eleven, every member of which had
undoubtedly been present, picking up points that would be useful
in the big Thanksgiving Day game?

Of course there must a celebration that night. Victory deserved
something of the sort, and the boys were bound to make the fact
known to every citizen of the town. Fires would be blazing, horns
tooting, firecrackers exploding, and a general hurrah taking
place, with crowds of students, roaming around, and ringing the
various college songs they loved so well.

Frank found a warm welcome at his home. His father declared he was
proud of the fact that he had a boy so well able to manage affairs
of great moment. It was a great day at the Allen house, and Helen,
for the time being, even forgot her grief in connection with the
unexplained desertion of her once fondly loved chum, Minnie
Cuthbert.

Just after lunch Frank was called to the telephone. Ralph had
dropped in to talk over matters connected with the game, which, of
course, must be the one important topic of conversation among the
Columbia students until the concluding meeting came about that
would settle the championship.

"Hello! who's this?" Frank asked, as he picked up the receiver,
and placed it at his ear.

A laugh was the first sound he heard.

"That you, Bones?" he demanded, thinking he recognized a
peculiarity about this chuckle that stamped the identity of the
one who seemed so merry.

"Sure; that you, Frank? Say, it's an epidemic that's struck us!"
called the one at the other end of the wire.

"What do you mean. Make it plainer; I'm all up in the air,"
answered Frank, who knew Bones was a great fellow for joking, and
wondered what he had in hand now.

"They had my dad guessing some, I tell you. He began to think it
was his duty to warn the town authorities so that they could take
proper precautions; for honest now, it did look like the whole
place was overrun with frisky canines, snapping at every one they
met!"

"What's that you say?" asked Frank, pricking up his ears at the
mention of dogs; for the memory of several recent experiences was
fresh in his mind.

"Why, you see, every one's getting bitten. It's the latest fad. My
dad had just three come to him early this morning to have wounds
cauterized to make sure!"

"Good gracious! you don't say?" ejaculated Frank, waiting for
further explanations, which he knew would not be long in coming.

"Yes, and the funny part of it is all of them were boys. The dogs
seem to have taken a great fancy for the breed. Guess you could
give a close hazard about who they were. Perhaps you know their
limp, for they showed it plain enough at the game," went on Bones,
with another series of chuckles.

"I saw Bill Klemm rubbing his calf and talking to Jay Tweedle;
yes, and when they walked off I thought each of them seemed to
have a stiff leg. How about that; were they to see the doctor?"
asked the captain of the football team, eagerly.

"Sure as you live, and Asa Barnes ditto. Asa said he was passing
an empty lot last night when a brindle cur just deliberately
jumped out and nabbed him. Of course he kicked the beast away,
and it ran off howling; but his father, on being told the
circumstances this morning, thought he ought to have a little
caustic applied so as to take no chances. Think of it--a brindle cur,
and that sneak kicked him! Oh! my!"

"And where did Bill say he got his dose from?"

"He's got a little bit of a poodle, you know. Well, he had the
nerve to declare the baby beast bit him! Dad said he found it hard
to believe, for judging from the marks of the teeth it was a jaw
three times as big as Tiny's that did the business. Dad knows
better now."

"Then you told him all about Kaiser's work last night?"

"Sure; I had to. He was for putting off to warn the town police to
look out for all brindle dogs, and shoot 'em on the spot--which
spot I don't know. But you see, somebody had told him about Kaiser
acting that way at the field, and he was ready to order him
massacred before he went mad too. So I had to relate the dreadful
story of how Bill and Asa and Jay got their little tattoo marks."

"What did he say then?" asked Frank, greatly amused.

"Nearly took a fit laughing over it. Instead of being chloroformed
or otherwise exterminated Kaiser is going to get a new collar now,
dad's especial gift. Hurrah for Kaiser! He's the whole circus
every time!"

"Yes," said Frank, quickly, "he came near getting his finish
though to-day. Old Officer Whalen was on his trail and meant to
fill him full of holes, if he could ever get close enough. It was
a narrow escape for Kaiser."

"A narrower one for the crowd. Did you ever see Officer Whalen
practice firing at a mark? Well, I have. The man couldn't hit a
barn door thirty feet off. Can't you come over, Frank? I've got
something to propose to you. The afternoon is too fine and bracing
to stay cooped up in the house. We'll soon have to hibernate, you
know. Come along!" called Bones.

"Ralph is with me."

"All right. Bring him along. Glad to have him."

"Look for us soon then. I've got something I want to ask you
anyway. Good-bye," and Frank turned from the phone to explain to
the wondering Ralph just why he had been so overcome with
merriment.

Of course Ralph thought the joke a good one when he too heard the
particulars of the sudden run upon the good doctor's supply of
liquid caustic.

"No wonder they limped after all that; the remedy was worse than
the disease, I reckon. I don't suppose anything serious will come
out of those bites now?" he said, after he had stopped laughing.

"Oh! hardly. Thousands are bitten every year by angry dogs, and
how few cases of hydrophobia you hear about. They'll limp around a
little while and then forget all about it But Bones wants us to
come over to his house, so if you have no objections we'll just
saunter across lots and see what he's got going."

"Just as you say." remarked Ralph, rising immediately; "though
unless you object I thought of dropping in at the post-office on
the way. There's a mail in, and possibly a letter might come for
me that I could get before the carrier came around."

Frank looked at him with pity in his eyes. He knew how secretly
Ralph was suffering all the pangs that can come with hope long
deferred; and that each day seemed like an eternity to the boy who
was yearning to feel the loving arms of a mother about his neck, a
mother whom he had never known.

"Certainly; that's only a step out of the way. But be careful as
you go, and if you see a brindle pup in a vacant lot run for your
life! They're mighty dangerous, I'm told," at which both boys
laughed again, and the cloud passed from Ralph's rather pale face.

As chance would have it, as they issued from the front door a
vehicle passed the house, and in it were seated Minnie Cuthbert
and Lef Seller, the fellow whom she had more than once declared
she never meant to speak to again. It was Lef's rig, and the
object he had in view in thus deliberately passing Frank's home
was obvious.

Frank, after that one start, was prepared. He immediately doffed
his cap with the most excruciating politeness. Minnie turned
white, then red. She hardly knew what to do under the circumstances;
but found herself nodding her head as though she could not help
it, even after cutting Frank on the preceding day.

Frank saw the grin of triumph on the face of his rival, but though
his blood was fairly boiling with indignation at his coming out of
the way to let him see their renewal of friendship, he simply
looked after the vehicle and smiled.

Ralph was chuckling as if amused.

"Sometimes girls' friendships are so quickly changed they make me
think of that wonderful Finnegan and his report of the accident on
his section of the railroad. You know how his boss had taken him
to task because he stretched things out so. When the old train had
another wreck he just wrote out his report: 'Off again, on again,
gone again, Finnegan.' Yesterday it was you, to-day Lef, and
tomorrow--well, tomorrow hasn't come yet, so we won't anticipate.
Come along, Frank," and linking his arm in that of his chum, Ralph
drew him away.

And in the lively talk that followed Frank soon forgot his bitter
feeling at the strange actions of the pretty girl he had once
thought so charming.




CHAPTER XIII

THE GREAT MARSH


"Glad to see you, fellows! Say, by the way, I hear that Clifford
won the great football match against Columbia!" was the way the
way Bones Shadduck greeted them as they reached his door and rang
the bell.

"You don't tell me," said Frank, with a smile; "when did it
happen?"

"Oh! last night some time. It was a great victory. I'm told they
nearly painted the town red over it," responded the other.

"Well, for my part I prefer to do the celebrating after the thing
is over to shouting before hand. Perhaps they celebrated too hard,
and that might account for several fool plays that were made. I
had an idea that several of Clifford's best players looked rather
red-eyed, as though they didn't get much sleep," remarked Frank,
as they entered.

"And I shouldn't be surprised if you were right. I was told they
had a dance and it was all hours of the morning when they went
home," echoed Bones.

"But what did you want us over for in particular?" asked Frank.

"Something to show you and then a proposal to make. I had a
birthday to-day, and my dad's been mighty good to me. What do you
think of that?"

Bones whipped out a beautiful shotgun from behind a case and
handed it over to the others to admire.

"Looks like a dandy, all right. And I wager she'll do some good
work when you get to looking over the sights. Handles great, too.
Although I think I like my own gun a little the better, still
that's only a matter of prejudice. You're lucky to have such a
dad, Bones," remarked Frank, as he drew an imaginary bead on some
object seen out of the window.

"And now for my proposal. I'm just wild to try the new gun, and I
had word from father's farmer, Benson, that the ducks were in the
old swamp that adjoins our big patch of ground over Wheaten way. I
can get our horse and the three of us might take a spin over to
see what we can do," suggested Bones, eagerly.

"But I thought duck shooting was always done in the early
morning?" ventured Ralph.

"It usually is; but in some localities there is apt to be a good
evening flight. That happens to be the case over at the swamp.
I've seen them come in there to spend the night by twos and
dozens, until the air was thick with them. And I've had the best
sport of my life in knocking them over on a runway, or rather
flyway. Say you'll go, Frank?" pleaded the enthusiastic sportsman.

"Well," answered the one addressed, "it always appeals to me, and
in this case I'd just as soon be away from town to-night, because
the boys are going to do stunts, and they hinted that they might
get hold of me to ride me around, something I object to seriously,
on general principles. So far as I'm concerned I'll be delighted
to go along, Bones."

"Ditto here," exclaimed Ralph; "only I shall have to go to be the
pick-up, for I haven't got a gun. I used to handle an old one of
Mr. West's, but, of course, didn't bring it along with me."

"Oh! that's easily fixed. If you don't mind you can use my old
one. She's a steady shooter. If you cover your bird you get him
every time. And I've got plenty of shells. Suppose you chase back
and get your double-barrel, Frank, while I see about the rig.
Ralph will stay with me and help, I know."

It was speedily arranged and Frank, on returning with his gun,
found the others ready to make a start. Just as he had said the
arrangement pleased him first-rate, for he really did want to get
out of town until a late hour that night. It was not at all to the
liking of the football captain to be carried around on show, just
as if he were a hero on exhibition; especially when he avowed that
he deserved not one whit more honor for the victory than each
other member of the team.

"I hope they get Lanky, and trot him around some to see how he
likes it. He was scolding me for not behaving right to the boys
to-day, when they grabbed me on the field after the game. I'd give
something to see him wallowing around on a platform and made to
bow to the right and to the left, over and over again."

All of them laughed heartily at the picture Frank conjured up.
Then they clambered into the vehicle and the start was made.

They had been wise enough to hide the guns, so that while some of
the boys who were on the streets saw them ride off, they had no
suspicion that the one bright particular star of the intended
celebration intended to be far away at the time.

It was a ride of more than ten miles. The horse, while not a fast
animal, could keep up a steady pace, and in good time they arrived
at the farm which Doctor Shadduck owned.

As the afternoon was passing, and night comes early after the
middle of November, the three young sportsmen hastened to head for
the swamp where they anticipated having an hour or so of pleasure
before dark actually shut in.

Bones had often come up here on a similar errand, though this was
his first visit this year. Still, he kept things in such shape
that there was little time wasted making the necessary arrangements.

He had a few painted decoys that had seen much service and these
they carried along with them from the house.

Seeing Frank curiously examining one of the stools he carried,
Bones broke out into a hearty laugh.

"Wondering what peppered that wooden decoy so, eh, Frank? I'll
tell you, though you'll never enjoy the story as much as I did the
actual thing. I had a cousin up here last winter. He was from New
York City, and had never shot at real game, though he was a deadly
marksman when it came to the trap, and could break bats and clay
pigeons right along."

"I've seen the breed," commented Frank, with a grin.

"Well, when we came crawling out here I forgot that I had asked
Benson to put my little flock of decoys out for me. The first
thing I knew I heard a bang close to my ear, and then a second
shot, after which Cousin Hal jumped up shouting that he had
knocked over the entire bunch. He had, but you ought to have seen
his look when I sent him wading out to retrieve the game. Still,
he laughed himself at the joke, and begged me not to tell it till
after he left."

"I guess they'll float about as well as ever, even if weighted
down with shot. Have you got a boat up here, Bones?" asked Ralph.

"Sure I have, and a dandy one to shoot out of, being flat-bottomed
and steady as a church floor. But I only use it to retrieve the
game generally; because you see, we can shoot from the land as the
ducks fly over to enter the swamp."

Frank had often heard of this style of shooting, and wanted to try
it; so that he was very glad he had come. After the tremendous
strain of the morning some relaxation of this kind would be a good
thing too, for all of them.

"I told my people not to expect me home to supper; and also that
they might be having game tomorrow for dinner, if we were lucky,"
remarked Frank.

"And nobody will bother whether I show up or not," observed Ralph,
with a nervous little laugh.

"Never mind, old chap, I calculate that there's going to come a
decided change in your condition before a great while. You're
showing true grit in bearing up as well as you do. Any day you may
get the letter that tells you the ones you look for are on the way
here. Then your troubles will be all in the past. Hello! how's
this Bones? Have we arrived?" and Frank looked around curiously
when the guide came to a sudden halt.

"Here we are, fellows. You see that abrupt break in the heavy line
of trees. It seems to form a sort of avenue, and the ducks in
flying toward the swamp just naturally drive into it, following
after each other as though it were really a road. In fact, few of
them ever enter the swamp by any other way than this."

"If we're going to shoot over a place like this, as the ducks come
in, why the decoys?" asked Ralph.

Bones laughed as he replied:

"I generally keep them out here during the season, in a little
shelter I have. Nothing like making fellows useful, you know; and
while we were coming I thought three could carry them better than
one! Sort of making you work your passage, see?"

Knowing the ground, and the habits of the waterfowl, Bones quickly
placed his two friends. Then they anxiously awaited the coming of
the first game.

A sort of routine had been arranged. This was to prevent any waste
of ammunition, through two of them shooting at the same quarry.

"Frank, you try the first chap, Ralph the second, and I'll
experiment with my new gun when the next pilgrim spins along.
Don't forget that they are swift customers right here, and the
chances are you'll shoot back of them," said Bones, as they stood
at their posts.

"There, Frank!" exclaimed Ralph, as a couple of dark objects
suddenly burst into view, and sped past them.

But Frank was not taken unawares. He had shot ducks more than once
before, and knew how to properly gauge their flight. Beginning a
little behind the pair he swept his gun forward so as to pass
them; and at just the instant it covered the game in its swinging
movement he pressed the trigger.

One of the ducks fell, stone dead, and the other went on with
diminished speed as though crippled. Almost instantly the second
barrel spoke, and this time down came the second bird.

"Fine!" exclaimed Bones, who had never seen Frank shoot before;
"why, really, I'm ashamed to show my clumsiness before such a
crack shot."

"None of that, now. And don't believe I can do that sort of work
right along. Next time it may be a clean double miss. Ducks are
unreliable things. I've known the best of shots to miss, time and
again. Ralph, step up and toe the mark. You're next on the
docket," laughed Frank, as he hastily replaced the discharged
shells with fresh ones.

"Better retrieve your game while the balance of us keep a lookout.
Otherwise we'll get things mixed, and perhaps lose some of it.
Did you mark the places?" said the host of the little hunt.

"Oh! yes, I always do that. It gets to be a habit with any fellow
who hunts much. I think they fell dead, so I oughtn't to have much
trouble," replied Frank.

"Beware the oozy spots along the border of the marsh. I've had no
end of trouble getting stuck instead of duck," called out Bones,
as the other moved away, carrying his gun along with him as a wise
hunter always does.

Just as he retrieved the second victim to his accuracy he heard a
single shot, and a heavy body fell not ten feet away. Ralph had
dropped his first duck also.

"There you are," remarked Frank, throwing the three birds down, as
he returned to the rendezvous; "and they do certainly look fine
and plump. Reckon you have quite a few muskrats in this old marsh
of yours, Bones. I saw a lot of houses in the water, made of
sticks and trash?"

"I was told there were. Of course I've seen the little varmints at
times, when I've been hiding in a duck-blind; but they never
trouble me, and I don't go out of my way to interfere with them.
Ah! there!"

He threw up his gun, and a second later two shots rang out in
rapid succession. Quite a bunch of teal had swung into the
avenue, heading for the marsh. They were just everlastingly
hurrying, as Ralph said, and while Bones succeeded in knocking
down a couple, one only wounded, which he never did find, he
declared he ought to be ashamed for not doing better.

"Still, I like the feel of the gun all right. I'll do something
worth while when I get used to the hang of it," he remarked, as he
went off to look for his game.

Then Frank had another chance. Sometimes the ducks were higher up;
then again they came at such speed that it was next to impossible
to make a hit.

So the fun went on for three-quarters of an hour. It was actually
getting dusk, and the flight seemed about over. Ralph had dropped
a single duck, and gone off to try and find it, though Bones said
he doubted whether he would succeed, because of the gathering
gloom.

About five minutes afterwards, as he and Frank were sitting there
on the log, exchanging stories of former hunts, they heard Ralph
calling.

"Hello! what's the matter?" exclaimed Frank, starting up.

"I don't know, but I can give a pretty good guess," remarked
Bones; and then elevating his voice, he shouted:

"What d'ye want, Ralph?"

"Better drop over here, please!" came the reply.

"He's in some sort of trouble," suggested Frank, judging from the
half apologetic tone of his chum.

"Yes, and I expect stuck in the ooze of the marsh, worse luck!"
grunted Bones.




CHAPTER XIV

THE DANGERS OF THE MUCK HOLE


"Where are you?" called Bones, as he and Frank pushed forward in
the gathering dusk.

"Here! Be mighty careful, fellows, or you'll get in too!" came the
answer, not far away.

"Told you so," remarked the doctor's son, with a little laugh;
"poor Ralph; I pity him, because I've been there myself. When I
come alone out here I always carry a short rope along. If I get
stuck it helps me out."

"A rope? How under the sun can that help?" demanded a voice close
by; showing that they were very near the boy who was stuck in the
ooze, and also that he was alive to the inconvenience of his
position.

"Why, you see, in most cases there's a limb of a tree hanging
over, and it's dead easy to throw the rope across it. After that,
one can pull out, unless he's allowed himself to sink too deep.
Got a match with you, Frank?" asked Bones.

"Lots. I've found them handy on too many occasions lately to go
without. Here you are, Bones. Going to make a fire, are you?" and
Frank, bending down, commenced to assist in gathering some dead
leaves together.

"Well," replied the other, "we ought to have some light to see how
to work him free. It would be a tough joke if the whole bunch of
us got stuck. I don't hanker after such an experience. Things are
pretty dry up here, so we must be careful not to let the blaze
spread any."

The fire was quickly a positive fact, and being fed with some
small branches it leaped up grandly. In this fashion the entire
neighborhood was illuminated.

Frank looked around. The sight was peculiar, and as the marsh ran
into an actual swamp, he thought he had seldom seen a more weird
effect. Still, what interested him most of all was the picture of
Ralph, up to his knees in the soft slime that lay concealed under
the dead leaves and green scum.

"I've tried all I could to get out, fellows, but the worst of it
is, when I lift one foot the other only goes that much deeper
down. If a fellow could only get hold of enough stuff to make a
sort of mattress he might roll over on it and do the trick that
way. I'd be trying that if I had daylight, and was alone here,"
remarked the imprisoned boy, calmly.

"Say, I never thought of that. It's a clever idea, all right. Next
time I get stuck I'm going to see how it works," remarked Bones.

"Why not now, since you haven't your rope along. Here's just the
ticket--some old fence rails lying in a heap. Cheer up, comrade,
we'll have you out of that in a jiffy now," sang out Frank,
seizing one of the long, cast-off rails, and dropping it on the
surface of the muck.

Bones fell to along side, and between them they speedily formed a
regular corduroy road out to where Ralph stood, watching the
building with interest.

One of them got on either side. Then, with the aid of other rails
they pried Ralph loose, so that he could crawl over to the
"mattress," and get secure footing. After that nothing was needed
but to walk ashore.

"I'm a fine sight, mud up to my knees, my hands full, and I tell
you, it isn't just as sweet as it might be," lamented Ralph, as he
started to scrape himself off with a splinter.

"Hold on, we'll play valet to you. Take that leg, while I manage
this one, Frank," observed Bones, who was really enjoying seeing
some other fellow in the same mussy condition that had been his
lot more than once.

They scraped so well that presently Ralph declared he felt quite
presentable once more.

"But I'll make sure to let nobody see me in this condition," he
added; "and this pair of trousers will have to go to the cleaner's
Monday morning, you bet."

"Well, are we off now?" asked Frank, as he started to make sure
that the fire was extinguished to the last spark.

"That's the ticket, Frank," observed Bones, approvingly, "I like a
fire all right, but hate to see it burning up a marsh or a woods.
Had one little experience that I aint going to forget in a hurry.
I guess she'll do now. Let's shoulder our game and make tracks for
the farmhouse. Supper will be ready, I suppose."

"Supper?" echoed Ralph.

"Why, sure. You didn't suppose I meant that we'd go hungry when I
invited you to come up here for a little relaxation, after our big
strain this morning? Benson promised to have something for us.
They're only plain country folks, you know, so don't expect much
style, fellows."

"Style!" exclaimed Ralph, with a snort, "do I look like I could
put on a heap, with these mussed-up trousers? All I ask is a
chance to wash my hands and face. But it was mighty good of you
thinking of the grub part, Bones."

"I don't see how. I always eat with Benson when I come up here for
a shoot. It was only a case of selfishness. Say, this is something
of a load--four apiece all around, and they're heavy chaps, too.
This one is so fat he actually burst when he fell."

"But I have no use of any game. Perhaps you'd better give the
farmer my share, for his kindness," suggested Ralph.

"That's nice of you, old fellow. And I'll take you up on it, too.
Benson has no time to shoot, and I don't believe he knows how; but
all the same he does like a taste of game, to sort of change the
bill of fare. Follow me, now, for the house."

Bones led the way, and presently they arrived at the farmhouse, a
low-roofed building, where light gleamed cheerily in the small
windows. Benson had a wife and several small children. The table
was set, country fashion, right at one end of the big kitchen, and
the odors that greeted the hungry and cold boys as they entered
certainly promised an appetizing repast.

Ralph was soon made happy with a tin basin and a bucket of water.
He managed to repair damages pretty well, and was only too willing
to respond to the farmer's hearty invitation to take a chair and
"set-to."

Perhaps it was their sharp-set appetites that made them think the
food tasted unusually fine. No matter, there was a great
abundance, and by the time they got up from the table every fellow
declared he could not eat another mouthful if he were paid for it.

"I'll have your rig at the door in short order," declared Benson,
as he went out with a lantern.

With a ten-mile drive, and a horse far from fresh, Bones had
decided that they would do well to start without any delay. He had
tried out his gun, and was satisfied; while on Frank's part, he
rejoiced in the fact that he would be away from town while all the
glorification was going on.

"Hold on, Mr. Benson, that's enough. Eight is all we want to take
back with us. Ralph here is boarding and has no use for his share.
So he asks you to accept it," called out Bones, as the farmer
started to toss the game in the back part of the doctor's buggy.
"That's kind o' him, and I'm sure much obliged. We don't get any
too much game up here, close as we are to the marsh. I'm too busy,
you see, and then besides, I never was a great hand to shoot. In
summer I pull in quite some fish at odd times, and that's all the
sport I take."

It was about eight o'clock when they finally left the farmhouse.
The good wife and the three children called out good-bye, as Bones
chucked to the horse, and they were off.

"It won't be so awful dark on the road, for there's a half moon
peeping out up yonder behind those clouds," said Frank.

"Glad of that," returned Bones, who was doing the driving,
"because you see, the road is pretty rough till we get on the main
one, and if it was pitch dark we might stand for getting tumbled
into a ditch alongside. There are same nasty places I've got to
look out for. I know them pretty well though; ought to, for I've
been in two of 'em."

"We'll help you look out then. I wouldn't hanker after a tumble
into a muddy ditch just now," laughed Frank.

"Think of me, fellows! Why, my lower extremities are still damp
from one trip. That was bad enough, but think of going in head
first! Ugh! excuse me, if you please!" groaned Ralph.

They made out to get along with little or no trouble. The horse
kept the middle of the road as a rule, and three pair of keen eyes
were quite enough to pilot the vehicle along toward the junction
of the two thoroughfares.

When the firmer road was reached Bones declared he was glad.

"Now we needn't worry, boys. Get-up, Strawberry; it's home for you
and another measure of oats. I had the farmer give him only a
small quantity. Keep a horse a bit hungry if you want him to
hustle for home," he remarked.

"Sounds reasonable at any rate, Bones. And Strawberry is doing
pretty good hustling right now, considering the heavy condition of
our weight, in the way of game. My folks will think I'm something
on the shoot, I guess," remarked Frank, humorously.

"You really got seven--" began Ralph, when his friend interrupted.

"Never mind about that. One fellow is always lucky above the rest.
Never knew it to fail. To-day it might be me, to-morrow you. So it
goes. Forget it, both of you."

Ralph said nothing more. He knew the nature of his chum, and that
Frank had not a selfish bone in his body. If there was any sport
going around he wanted every one to have their full share of it,
nor could he rest happy unless this were so.

They had passed over several miles of the main road, and all of
them were somehow feeling a bit drowsy from their unusual
exertions of the day, when, without warning, the horse snorted
and came to a full stop.

"What's this mean?" demanded Bones, in astonishment.

"There's something on the road ahead of us," declared Ralph,
bending forward in order to see the better, for the shadows fell
across the tree-bordered pike.

"I'm not sure," ventured Frank, "but it seems like some sort of
vehicle to me. Perhaps there's been an accident. Wait while I jump
out and go to see!"




CHAPTER XV

FRANK TURNS CHAUFFEUR


"Don't you want your gun?" asked Bones, in a low voice, that
showed some trace of excitement; for, truth to tell, Bones was
inclined to be suspicious by nature, and there had been stories
told lately throughout that section, of raids by thieving tramps.

Possibly that may have been one reason why Bones was so desirous
of having company on this little excursion up to the farm to try
his new gun.

"What for?" asked Frank, surprised, as he dropped out of the
vehicle.

"Oh! there's no telling. This may be just a trap to stop any
travelers and make them hand over. It's been done before. I'd hate
to lose my double-barrel the first thing."

He was groping under the seat for the aforesaid article at that
very moment, as though he would feel safer with it in his hands.

But Frank laughed scornfully.

"Don't you believe it, Bones. Ten to one this is some vehicle that
has left the road and gone into the ditch. I'm only afraid I may
find the driver badly hurt in being thrown out, that's all."

He left the buggy as he spoke, and walked hastily forward toward
the dark object that seemed to be half on the road and partly
among the trees. "Why, it looks like an automobile," said Frank
to himself, as he came closer; and five seconds later he added
positively, "That's just what it is. I wonder what's happened
now?"

He soon knew. Upon reaching the scene he found that the car must
have suddenly swerved from the road and struck a tree, head on. It
could not have been going at a very rapid pace at the time, for
although some damage had been done to the hood, and one of the
lamps seemed to be smashed, the machine did not appear badly
damaged.

Some one was grunting close by, and as Frank drew near he saw a
figure crawling out from the bushes.

"What's happened here?" he asked, promptly.

The figure of a man started up, and as Frank struck a match he saw
that the other seemed to be decently dressed, although his clothes
were somewhat torn after his headlong flight in among the bushes.

"We had an accident," muttered the man, staring hard at him; and
Frank thought with a look not unlike suspicion on his scratched
face.

"I see you had," returned Frank, at the same time noting almost
unconsciously from the way the machine headed they must have been
coming away from Columbia at the time; "but you speak as if there
might be another party along with you. Did he get tossed out too
when you hit the tree?"

"I don't know. I wasn't seeing anything just then but a million
stars. He don't seem to be in the car, does he?" ventured the
other, who was rubbing himself all over as if trying to ascertain
whether any ribs, or other bones, had been broken in his rough
experience.

"Then he must be in the bushes, the same as you, though it's a
miracle how he went out, being behind the steering wheel; and also
how he missed hitting this tree. Fortunately it happens to be a
small one. Let's look and see."

As he spoke Frank lit another match and started to examine the
bushes alongside the stranded car and beyond. By the time he had
used three matches success rewarded his efforts, for they found
the man.

"He's dead!" exclaimed the stranger, in horrified tones.

"Oh! perhaps not. He may only have fainted from the shock," and
lying down, the boy put his head down close to the chest of the
motionless man.

"His heart is beating and that proves he is alive. Take hold here
and we'll carry him to the car. Perhaps he'll come to his senses
when I dash a little water in his face. Lift his heels and I'll
look after his head," and Frank took hold of the broad shoulders
as he spoke.

In this fashion they managed to move the unconscious man to the
road. He was laid down alongside the car. Meanwhile, the other two
boys had come up, Bones urging the frightened horse along with the
whip.

"What is it, Frank?" asked Ralph, jumping out.

"Been an accident; a car rammed a tree. Both passengers thrown
out, and one of them is injured; Anyhow he seems to have been
knocked senseless. I'm going to get a little water in my cap and
try to bring him to," with which Frank darted to the other side of
the road, where his quick ear caught the trickling sound of a
small stream gurgling among mossy stones.

He was back in less than a minute, and immediately started
splashing some of the water in the face of the unconscious man.

"He's coming around," said the other man, watching these
operations with eager eyes; and who several times looked at the
three boys as though wondering what they could be doing there on
that lonely road at such a late hour, for it was now past nine
o'clock.

Frank turned aside to see whether he could not light the
remaining lamp of the car, which did not appear to have been
broken, and had possibly only gone out through the sudden
concussion, as acetyline burners often will.

He found that it was readily made to shed light again, and once
his work here had been done it was only natural for the boy who
delighted in machinery of all kinds to take a hasty look at the
car.

"I think it might run still. Nothing vital seems to be broken,
anyhow," he said aloud, as he came back to the little group.

The second man was recovering, but groaning more or less.

"He ought to be taken to your house, Bones, to let your father
examine him. I'm afraid he may be badly hurt," said Frank; "if you
can help him into the tonneau of the machine I'll try and see if
it will work."

"Say, can you run it?" asked the second man, eagerly.

"I know something about cars; enough to drive this one, if it
isn't damaged in its working parts. I couldn't guarantee to patch
it up, though. Wait and let me see."

He bent over the car, and presently gave the crank a couple of
whirls to turn over the engine. Sure enough, there was an
immediate response, and the whirring that followed announced that,
strange to say, the machine had not been vitally injured in the
smashup, though badly damaged with regard to looks.

Frank backed out, and with a few deft manipulations that proved
the truth of his assertion that he could run a car, managed to
head the machine once more toward Columbia. Neither of the men
seemed to notice just what he was doing. The one who had appeared
to Frank first was bending down over his friend, and they were
holding a whispered conversation.

"Put him in; now Ralph," said the new chauffeur, quietly, "you and
Bones come along after, and leave my gun and the ducks at my
house. I'll be home long before you get there, I reckon, unless
this old machine takes a notion to be tricky again and dump us."

Still groaning, the man was lifted into the tonneau.

"How do you feel, sir?" asked Frank, solicitously; although, truth
to tell, he could not say that he liked the looks of either of the
parties, judging from what little he had seen of them by the light
of the lone lamp.

"Pretty bum, boy. The trouble is, my right arm hangs down like it
might be broken; and without it I can't handle the wheel, you see.
My friend here don't know nothing about a machine, the worse luck.
So I don't see but what we've just got to let you do the drivin'
for us. It's nice in you proposin' it, too. Ugh! that hurts some,
I tell you!"

The man accompanied his words with more or less vehement
expressions that did not raise him the slightest in the estimation
of Frank. However, he was evidently in great bodily pain, and that
might in some measure excuse his strong language.

The second traveler got in alongside his friend, as though he
feared he might be needed sooner or later, if the other started to
faint again.

"I'm going to get you to a doctor as soon as possible," remarked
Frank, as he started off.

He heard the calls of his chums and answered back. Then the car
lost the slow-moving buggy on the road. Frank did not dare drive
very fast. He was not familiar with the machine; and besides,
possibly it was acting freakish--at least the man declared that it
had jumped aside straight at that tree without his doing anything.
On his part Frank accepted this version with a grain of allowance;
for he had long since scented liquor around, and could guess the
real reason for the accident.

As he guided the car Frank could hear the two men talking behind
him. The murmur of their voices just reached him, though he could
not make out anything they said.

Once the man who had come out of the mishap in better trim than
his companion seemed to be groping around under the seats as if
searching for something.

"It's here, all right, Jim!" Frank heard him say, in a satisfied
tone.

A minute later he was asking about the road, where it led, and
what the intentions of the boy at the wheel were. Frank repeated
what he had said before, to the effect that he thought the wounded
man ought to see a physician with as little delay as possible, and
therefore he was heading back to Columbia so as to take him to Dr.
Shadduck.

"Who?" exclaimed the wounded man, as the name was mentioned.

"Doctor Shadduck, the father of one of my chums, who was with me
duck shooting," replied Frank, thinking it strange why the man
while apparently suffering so much should care who attended him,
just so long as he could get relief speedily.

Again the two men conferred in low tones. Frank could hear the
wounded one muttering again. Perhaps his arm had commenced to hurt
once more; or, it may have been something else that started him
off.

And even while Frank was wondering who these parties could be
anyway, with their strange actions and apparent unwillingness to
return to Columbia, which place they must have recently left, a
heavy hand was laid on his arm, and a voice said:

"Say, look here, we don't want to go to Columbia, and what's
more, we ain't meaning to let you take us there! Just ahead is a
road that runs off from this. They told us it runs over to
Fayette. Perhaps you don't want to go that way, but forget all
that and turn off, because you've just _got_ to take us! No
words now, but shove us along lively!"




CHAPTER XVI

AN UNWILLING PILOT


Frank Allen felt a sudden thrill shoot through his entire body
when the gruff command to change his course was growled into his
ear.

He had not been at all inclined to look upon these two travelers
in a favorable light; but this was the first intimation he
received that they might be even worse than they appeared.

Of course he made no immediate reply. In fact, he was still dazed
by this puzzling turn in the strange little adventure. He had
believed that in helping the luckless victims of the accident he
was furthering his own interests, in that he would reach home long
before his chums. Now it began to look as though he had jumped
from the frying pan into the fire.

He tried to collect his thoughts and reason out the case. Why
should these men so seriously object to returning to the town of
Columbia? Had they been guilty of doing something unlawful that
made the place dangerous to them?

Once before Frank had become mixed up with a clique of men for
whom Chief of Police Hogg had warrants. He remembered the
circumstance clearly, and wondered whether history could be about
to repeat itself again.

And then, why should the mention of Doctor Shadduck's name affect
them both in that strange fashion? Did they know the foremost
physician of Columbia, a man of considerable property interests,
and said to be the wealthiest man in the county?

"The car!"

Frank came near exclaiming these words aloud, so abruptly did they
form in his mind! Now he remembered why the automobile had somehow
seemed familiar to him, and why Bones had shown such interest in
it.

"Bones thought it was an exact duplicate of the new machine his
father bought last week; but I believe it's the doctor's own car!
These men have stolen it for some reason or other," Frank was
thinking, even while he stared ahead at the white road over which
they were moving at a fair rate of speed.

His pulses throbbed with the excitement, even more than when
Clifford threatened Columbia's ten-yard line with an irresistible
forward rush that morning. Hearing the men talking behind him he
strained his ears to try and catch a few words, in the hope that
he might discover what it all meant.

"It's all your fault, Bart," grumbled the injured fellow.

"I don't see how you make that out, Jim?" replied the other,
gloomily.

"I wanted to turn and head for Fayette, but you said the other
road was best," the heavier fellow went on.

"I think so yet, but who'd expect that we'd have such a wreck? I
tell you, man, we're mighty lucky to come out of it as well as we
did," said the other.

"That's easy for you to say, but my arm feels tough. I reckon
she's broke sure enough. That means delay and trouble, just when
things looked so bright. It's a shame, that's what. Sure we didn't
lose it in the accident, are you, Bart?"

The lighter man seemed to again feel down at his feet.

"I tell you it's there safe and sound. Given four hours, and we'll
be where they ain't going to find us. Keep up your nerve, Jim.
Luck's still with us, I know," he went on.

"Is it? Well, I'm beginning to suspect there's been a turn in the
tide. When the machine took the bit in her mouth and slammed us up
against that tree, it looked to me like we had run into bad
weather. But we must be near that road, Bart!"

"Reckon it's just ahead now; I remember that big tree we passed
comin' out," replied the uninjured one of the precious pair.

"All right. Don't let the kid get past. Seems to me he's some
slippery. I seen his face somewhere before," grunted the sufferer.

"Course you did. He was the feller that captained them boys this
morning in the game we watched while waitin' for our chance," said
the other.

"He was, hey? Well, you want to keep your eye on that boy, then,
mark me. They told me some high-colored yarns about him at the
inn."

Frank was not in the least elated over hearing himself praised. In
truth, just then he was wrestling with the puzzling problem
presented by his strange situation.

What "chance" did the man called Bart refer to? Who were these
mysterious men, and what did they have in the bottom of the
tonneau that seemed so precious in the eyes of the fellow who was
badly hurt? He could, for the time being, forget his severe
injuries to make inquiries concerning this package, hence it must
be of considerable value.

Were they thieves? If this was indeed the new machine belonging to
Bones' father, it looked suspicious, to say the least.

What could he do? They wanted him to take them somewhere, and in
a hurry, too; were they in full flight, desirous of getting to a
certain place before the pursuit became too fierce?

If Frank shivered while considering these momentous things, it
could hardly be wondered at. The situation was one to give
concern to the bravest man, and, after all, he was but a boy,
though possessed of more than the average courage for one of his
years.

"There's the road on the left, kid!" suddenly exclaimed Bart.

"I see it, sir," replied the young pilot of the damaged car,
trying to keep his voice as steady as possible, in the hope that
the two men might not suspect that he had guessed their secret.

"Be sure and turn in; and be careful not to upset us," continued
the other.

"Yes," said the wounded fellow, quickly, "one accident is more'n
enough for me, to-night. Hey, that's a good sweep around,
youngster; I see as you know your business all right. Now, are we
headin' straight for Fayette?"

"Yes, sir," replied Frank, readily.

"How far is that away from Columbia?"

"Twelve miles, about, sir, as the road goes," answered the new
chauffeur.

"We strike the railroad at Fayette, don't we?" continued Bart,
eagerly.

"There is one there, but not the same that comes to Columbia," and
when he said that Frank was certain that one of the men chuckled;
it must have been Bart, for the wounded fellow was in no mood for
merriment, what with his groans and grunts that signified pain.

"That's right. And we're glad to hear it. Wouldn't give a cent for
a chance to ride back to your slow old town. New York's good
enough for us, hey, Jim."

"It sure is, if I ever live to get there. Wish there happened to
be a doctor on this here road somewhere," said the second
traveler.

"What for?" asked his comrade, quickly. "I'd get him to take a
look at this arm, that's what."

"Huh! dangerous business, Jim. Don't you think of it 'less it's
just positively necessary. Delays might cost us dear. There's
going to be a big hello when our old friend gets out of that
sleep."

Frank realized that the men were apparently getting to that point
where they cared little how much he knew. They evidently meant to
make such use of him as seemed necessary. Once he thought that it
might be a good thing if he pretended to lose control of the car,
just as Jim had evidently done. Then he changed his mind, and for
two very good reasons.

In the first place, there was always the risk of being hurt
himself in the consequent collision with a tree. Frank could not
forget that his duty was to keep himself in good condition, so
long as his school looked to him to lead his team to victory in
the triangular series of football contests. Then, again, he
seemed to feel that it would be cowardly to desert the post into
which a strange accident had thrust him.

Better stick it out until something cropped up whereby he could
make at least a try to defeat the purposes of these two rogues. He
had heard enough to want to know more. Probably they would not
seek to injure him so long as he made no positive move toward
interfering with their game, whatever that might be.

They were talking again. Once more he strained for hearing in the
hope of picking up further clues that would enlighten him with
regard to their aims.

"It's the safest way, Bart. If they can't get word to Fayette
till mornin', we can give 'em the laugh. You've just _got_
to do it," said the wounded man, with a degree of force that
marked him as the head of the expedition.

"All right, if you say so, Jim. I'd a done it up the other road,
if you hadn't banged us into that tree. Say when," replied the
other, who was moving about as though doing something.

Frank managed to take a swift look over his shoulder. It only
puzzled him the more, for Jim seemed to be fastening something
about the lower part of his legs. What could he want leggings for?
And what could it be that Jim insisted he should do?

"I know of a doctor about two miles further on here," Frank said,
thinking that it might delay matters some if they concluded to
stop over; at least give him a chance to either escape, or render
the machine useless for further flight.

"You do, eh? Well, tell us when we get there, and p'raps I might
make up my mind to hold over a bit. Are you ready, Bart?" said the
heavier man.

"Yes. As well here as anywhere," came the reply.

"Bring her to a stop, kid; here, alongside this telegraph pole.
That's good. Now, Bart, do it!"

Frank felt more than curious to know what the men had in mind. As
soon as the car came to a stand the lighter man, who had not been
hurt in the accident, jumped rather clumsily from the tonneau.
Frank noticed this with surprise, for up to now he had looked upon
the other as rather agile. Could he have been injured after all,
and was just beginning to feel the effect of his headlong plunge
into the bushes?

Judge of his utter amazement when he saw Bart at once seize hold
of the nearby telegraph pole and begin to climb up with a series
of sturdy kicks that apparently glued each foot in succession to
the pole. Frank no longer wondered, for he knew that the man had
been strapping a pair of lineman's climbing spurs to his legs when
bending down in the tonneau of the stolen car!




CHAPTER XVII

A DESPERATE REMEDY


"All right, Bart?" called out the man in the car, as the other
seemed to have reached the cross-bars far up the pole, over the
lower of which he threw a leg, after the confident manner of one
accustomed to such antics.

"Sure. It was dead easy," came floating down from above.

"Then get to work, and make a clean job of it. Look here, boy,
don't you be thinkin' of leavin' us in the lurch just now. I ain't
fit to run this shebang, so we need you, and need you bad. I
reckon you know what this is, don't you?" and the fellow showed
something that glistened like steel in the mellow moonlight.

Frank could not help feeling a little chill; still, he, was not
given to showing the white feather easily.

"Of course I do. It isn't the first time I've seen a revolver," he
managed to say, with a nervous little laugh.

"All right, then; don't get gay, and make me ugly, or something
might happen. Hey! Bart, why don't you get busy?" raising his
voice again.

There was a sharp click, and a clear "tang," as of a strained wire
snapping. Frank understood now what was doing. These men had fear
of pursuit, and were cutting the telegraph wires in order to
prevent direct communication between Columbia and Fayette!

A second and a third metallic "pink" announced that the man up
among the cross bars was indeed using his cutters with effect. At
that rate he would have the entire sheaf of wires severed in
another minute or so.

The matter began to assume gigantic proportions to the boy, as he
sat there in the car and listened. Certainly these men must have
desperate need for delay in the pursuit, if they went to such
extremes in order to accomplish it. And they seemed to have
provided against such a contingency, too, which would indicate
that they were now only carrying out a part of a well-laid plan.

What could he do? Half a dozen ideas thronged into his brain, but
they seemed so utterly useless that he discarded them as fast as
they arose. He must in some manner get away from their company
before arriving in the neighborhood of Fayette; because if they
were as desperate as they appeared the chances were they might see
fit to tie him up, and leave him under some farmer's haystack,
where he would not be found for hours.

"That light ahead is the doctor's place," he said, finally.

The man called Bart had apparently severed the last of the wires.
He was even then coming down the pole hastily, as though eager to
be on the move.

"It is, eh?" remarked the other, with a plain sneer, as though he
guessed the sudden hope that had leaped into being in the heart
of the boy; "well, seein' as how we've been held up here so long
I reckon I'll have to let that chance get by me. Seems like I
can move that arm a little. P'raps she aint broke after all."

Bart jumped rather clumsily into the car.

"Hit her up now, kid. We ought to make up some for the time we put
in here. Been a preachin' to him, ain't you, Jim? It's just as
well that he knowed how things lie, 'cause we can't afford to have
any foolin'?" he observed.

"I warned him that we wouldn't put up with any hoss play. If he
tries to run us into the bushes he's goin' to get himself into a
peck o' trouble. Likewise, keep a still tongue in your mouth when
we go past the doctor's house; understand!"

Jim thought it good policy to accompany these last words with a
vigorous prod between Frank's shoulder blades; and there could be
no mistaking the nature of the hard object with which he did this
punching.

To tell the truth Frank had really thought of doing some shouting
just when they were in front of the little house where the country
doctor lived. His plans had been in a sort of chaotic state at
best, for he could not see just how anything of this sort might
avail to divorce him from the unwelcome company of these two
rascals.

"I'm not saying a word," he remarked, with another little nervous
laugh, as the speeding machine passed the home of the medical man,
perched on a little knoll.

While he bent forward and seemed to be scanning the road ahead, so
as to avoid a collision in case they met another vehicle coming
the other way, Frank was again doing his best to conjure up some
wild plan that might promise him the desired chance to escape from
the company of these two desperate men.

He now had not the least doubt but that they were thieves of some
sort. What he had heard them say with reference to some person who
would not be apt to wake up for several hours, made him think
again of Doctor Shadduck.

The gentleman was a rich man, and accustomed to dealing in many
enterprises that necessitated the employment of considerable
means. Possibly these men had managed to hoodwink the capitalist
in some fashion, and when their opportunity came had run away
with something valuable belonging to him. They may even have used
some of the good doctor's chloroform, or other drugs, to put him in
a condition whereby he could not give the alarm or start a pursuit
for some hours.

It was really thrilling; but Frank had no desire to see anything
further of his unwelcome companions. He wished he had the nerve to
turn the car from the road; but the chances of being injured
himself discounted this desire.

Surely there ought to be some other way whereby he could say good-bye
in a hurry. They would not search long for him if he once got away.
Since Jim admitted that his arm was feeling better perhaps he would
try and guide the machine into Fayette. Meanwhile Frank could be
trying in some fashion to warn the authorities.

The sound of their voices just reached him as he sat there
thinking. They were talking low now, as if desirous of not letting
him hear, but Frank possessed keen ears, and could catch certain
words, especially in Jim's heavier tones.

"It's just got to be did sooner or later. He could ruin all our
game if he wanted to. I've risked too much now to take chances.
Don't you go to showing any of your squeamishness, Bart; I won't
have it," he was growling.

They must be referring to the boy who sat at the wheel and guided
the moving car. Bart evidently said something more, for presently
the voice of Jim once more came to the listening ears of the one
so deeply interested.

"He ain't goin' to be hurted, I tell you. But his mouth has got to
be kept closed, unless you want the hull county on our heels. I
seen that feller play, and I know what he's capable of doin'. So
just shut up, Bart, and do what I says, hear?"

Evidently the other finally agreed to abide by the decision of his
leader; for they both relapsed into temporary silence.

"I _must_ find some chance to jump!" Frank said over and over
to himself, after having heard what had passed between the two men
back of him.

To do it then and there invited a dislocated shoulder when he
struck the hard ground. And then again there was that ugly, shiny
thing which Jim had taken such deliberate pains to show him; he
did not fancy being used for a target.

"How far along are we now?" asked Jim, close to his ear.

"About five miles out of Fayette, I think?" replied Frank, who had
frequently come over this some course on his wheel, and knew the
country well.

"Huh! that's encouraging. Keep her going like she is, bub. You
seem to know how to run a machine, all right. Steady! there comes
something ahead. Give 'em the horn, boy, and steer to the right,
d'ye hear! Not a peep as we pass, remember!"

Again came that wicked punch in the small of Frank's back.

"I'll remember," he said, hastily, as he turned as far out as the
nature of the road permitted, and at the same time caused the horn
to give a few croaks.

It was another auto approaching, as the several lights announced.
Frank's heart seemed to be in his throat as the two machines
rapidly approached each other. What would he not have given for a
chance to shout out, and tell the parties who were in the other
car that he was held under duress, and compelled to play the part
of chauffeur to these fugitive rascals; but he dared not, with
that desperate wounded man right at his back.

Judge to his astonishment when he saw that the other car held a
number of Columbia people, among the rest Minnie Cuthbert and her
father. He only had a quick glimpse of them as the two machines
passed; but it was enough to show him a look of sheer astonishment
on the face of the girl, which told that she must have recognized
him.

"Hello! Frank!" came a voice booming after them, as the other car
slowed down suddenly; and he believed that it must be Mr. Cuthbert
who called, possibly influenced by Minnie.

"Silence! not a word, do you hear?" exclaimed Jim, emphasizing his
words with a further display of significant pushes with that hard
object.

"And keep her going, kid, keep her going right along," added the
other man, grimly.

"Are they turning around, Bart?" demanded the stout party,
savagely.

"Naw. Nothing doing this time. There they start up again, and
headin' the other way. It's all right, pard, all right sure."

"Lucky for them it is," grunted Jim; though he sighed in relief
because the peril had passed; "them fellers seemed to know you,
son?"

"Yes, they are Columbia people," replied Frank, shortly, for he
had experienced a bitter disappointment when he realized that this
sudden little chance had slipped away without helping his forlorn
cause a mite.

Three more miles or so had been passed over when suddenly there
flashed into his mind a brilliant idea that promised results. Just
ahead was a bridge over Juniper Creek, quite a good sized stream
that flowed into Harrapin River above Clifford.

Passing down the incline that led to the bridge, Frank managed to
make the car act wobbly, as though there might be something the
matter. And as it ran on to the boards of the bridge itself, he
brought it to a sudden stand.

"What's wrong here?" demanded Jim, angrily.

The engine had stopped working.

"I'll get out and see," observed Frank, suiting the action to the
word, and opening up the hood of the car.

"Don't you try to run away, son, if you know what's good for you,"
said the man, after Frank had used a wrench on the engine. "Try
cranking her again, and see if she refuses to work. There--hold
on, you fool--why, he's crazy, Bart!" for Frank had suddenly
whirled around, and taken a plunge over the side of the wooden
bridge into the cold waters of Juniper Creek!

[Illustration: FRANK HAD SUDDENLY PLUNGED OVER THE SIDE OF THE
BRIDGE.]




CHAPTER XVIII

MATCHING WITS


"After him, Bart! We mustn't let him get away!" exclaimed the
stout man, as he hurriedly climbed out of the tonneau of the
automobile.

"Not me! I ain't hankering after a cold bath just now," answered
his companion, who had jumped out on the other side, and was
running around.

"Run down to the bank and get hold of him, if you can!" continued
Jim, harshly.

This seemed at least reasonable, and Bart had no objections to
trying to do something along such lines.

"Don't see anything of him here!" he announced a minute later, as
he appeared below, and ran along the bank of the stream.

The moon had gone behind a cloud, as though wishing to favor the
escape of the unwilling chauffeur.

"Hang the luck! Well, come up here then, and we'll put off. P'raps
I might manage with my other arm. We can't hang around here, with
time flying. The town's close by. Hurry up, Bart!"

But when Bart reached his side, he found the other breathing out
threatenings in a fashion that denoted a new difficulty.

"What's wrong now?" asked the slim man, who was panting from his
exertions.

"That clever little scamp has dished us, that's what; carried away
the spark plugs of the machine with him, and without them we might
as well try to move this bridge. I was a fool to trust him one
second. We've just got to find him, Bart, that's all there is to
it! Either that, or walk into Fayette, and perhaps lose that
train. Come on back again. You take one side, and I'll look over
the other. He's there, sure, unless he got drowned, and that I
don't imagine is the case."

Bart was fully awake to the great necessity of finding the boy,
after hearing what Frank had done as he jumped from the car. Each
of them hurried around the approach of the bridge, and slipped
down the bank.

"Any sign of him over there, Jim," called Bart, as he pushed his
way into the bushes and reeds that bordered the creek.

"Don't see none yet, but keep on further down. Like as not as he
just drifted with the current a bit, and then crawled out. Get
him, if you find his tracks, I feel like I could do something to
him for playin' this trick on us. Hello!"

"What's doing, boss?" called the other.

"Here's where he crawled out, all right," replied Jim, excitedly.

"How d'ye know it is?" demanded the other, across the water of the
creek.

"It's all wet. I'll follow it up, and nab him in a dozen winks. He
can't have got far away, I reckon."

"What d'ye want me to do, Jim?" called his companion, after a
wait.

"Go back to the bridge, and cross over here."

"All right. Keep right after him. The moon's going to come out
again right soon. If you see him, give him a shot to make him
stop!" and shouting in this vein, Bart turned to retrace his steps
back to the bridge.

He was somewhat out of wind by the time he had half mounted the
abrupt bank that served as the base for one end of the bridge. All
at once he heard a sound that electrified him. It was the cranking
of the car!

"Hi, Jim! here he is! Come back! He's going to leave us in a
hole! Head him off up the road there! Hurry, Jim, hurry!"

The climbing man could hardly finish shouting, so short was he of
breath; but perhaps it may have been the absolute necessity for
prompt action that forced him to continue the balance of the sheer
ascent.

The answering cries of his companion welled up from somewhere down
along the side of the stream, and the crash of his plunging
footsteps could be heard as an evidence that he understood the
danger menacing them.

As Bart pulled himself up alongside the approach to the bridge he
saw a boyish figure spring into the fore part of the damaged car.
Then came a series of quick pulsations that announced the fact of
the machine working, as if nothing had ever been the matter.

"He's going off with it, Jim! Stop him! He's carrying our stuff
with him! Head him off! Puncture a tire for him! Give him a shot,
Jim!" howled to the thoroughly demoralized Bart, starting to
stagger after the retreating automobile himself, with his hands
extended, as though he would fain seize hold upon it.

"Good-bye, fellows; your cake is dough!" shouted the one who
sprawled in the front seat of the car and guided its destinies.

Frank had purposely thrown on considerable power in making his
start, for he knew what if ever there was need of haste it was
right then and there. Jim was running ahead there, with the
intention of cutting him off, and little though he had seen of
the gentleman, he felt that he had no desire to prolong the
acquaintance further.

Now the friendly moon could no longer hold back behind that
floating black cloud, and with her first appearance Frank turned
an anxious face toward the spot where a violent agitation in the
brush announced the presence of the running Jim.

"Hold up there, boy! Put on the brake, or I'll----" but the rest
was unheard, for Frank had dropped as low as he could in the front
of the car, though still keeping his hands on that guiding wheel.

He heard the sharp discharge of a weapon, thrice repeated. His
heart seemed to come up almost in his throat, for this thing of
being under fire was a new experience for the young athlete.
Perhaps the man had tried to simply puncture the tire, although
this would in the end delay their departure. Frank never knew the
truth in connection with the firing.

Then, in another second or two, he realized that he had passed
beyond the zone of danger, with a clear road ahead of him!

"Hurrah!"

He could not help giving vent to his delight in this one shout.
Just half a mile further on another road branched off from the one
he was flying over. He remembered that by a circuitous way it
would eventually take him to Columbia, passing through first the
village of Stagers, and then a larger place known as Plattville.

His pulses were bounding with triumph as he let the car out notch
by notch. Why, after all, the smash could have done no serious
damage to the machine. What was fifteen miles when in such a
splendid traveler as this new auto of the good doctor's?

He made the turn, and presently dashed into the first village.
Here he stopped at a tavern long enough to make an examination, to
ascertain whether his supply of gasoline might be sufficient to
carry him home. He also wished to impress the fact of his having
been there upon the hotel keeper. In case anyone tried to cast any
doubts upon his story, it might be well to have evidence that he
had visited Stagers that night.

And during his brief stop Frank took occasion to look at the
object lying in the bottom of the tonneau, and which had seemed to
be especially valuable in the eyes of the two unprincipled men.

It was a common variety of grip, made of some good leather. He did
not bother opening the same, thinking that possibly Doctor
Shadduck might be better qualified than himself for that task, but
he placed it at his feet in front.

Once again Frank was on the move. He really hoped that nothing
would interfere with his reaching Columbia safely, now that
fortune had been so kind.

The road was not the best possible for a machine, and often he had
to slow up rather than take unnecessary chances for an accident.

Whenever he thought of the pair of rascals left behind, he
laughed. He felt that he could afford to loosen up a little after
such a strenuous time. But in his wet condition he found rapid
traveling rather unpleasant. True, he had borrowed a heavy coat
from the hotel man, to whom he had explained the case in a few
sentences; but in spite of this protection, he soon began to
shiver.

This compelled him to reduce speed still more. When he reached
Plattville the road would be better, and besides, he might find a
chance to get a drink of warm coffee or tea, if the eating-house
were open at such an hour.

Cheered by this thought, he set his teeth together, resolved to
stick it out to the end. But Frank was not apt to forget that ride
in a hurry.

It was now a quarter to ten. He found this out by striking a match
and looking at his watch, the moon having retired once more behind
the clouds. But Frank was under the impression that he must be
close to the town now.

"I believe I remember that windmill on the left, and the big water
tank on the hill. Yes, Plattville must lie down there in the
valley. Now to slip along the down grade. Just seven miles from
home; but I wish I was there now," he was saying, as he passed
over the crest of the elevation.

Yes, there were many lights in sight, and how they cheered him,
after his lonely ride along the wretched road from Stagers. He
felt like shouting again, so buoyant had his feelings become. What
would Bones say when he learned the truth; and doubtless Doctor
Shadduck would be pleased at getting his new car back, damaged as
it was.

So Frank, running downhill, crossed a bridge, and came into the
town of Plattville. On ordinary nights, doubtless, the place would
be quiet enough at this hour; but Saturday was different. Quite a
number of persons were on the main street, and cast curious
glances at the lone traveler who had entered the town.

Straight to the leading hotel Frank went. He had been here before,
and even taken a dinner once upon a time, when his club came over
to play the Plattville boys.

A small-sized crowd stood around the door of the bar room. Frank
could see that there seemed to be some signs of excitement, though
he did not suspect that it could have anything to do with him.

Hardly had he brought the car to a stop when some of the men
crowded around, and one of them shouted out:

"Hi! sheriff, here's the identical car you was readin' to us about
in that ere dispatch from Columbia. And here's one of the thieves
come right in to give hisself up! Surround the machine, boys;
don't let the feller escape; and look out, for they do say he's a
desprit case! come out here, Sheriff Tucker!"




CHAPTER XIX

AT THE END OF THE CIRCUIT


A tall man came running out of the hotel.

"What's that you say, boys?" he was demanding, as he advanced
eagerly.

"Here's luck for you--the very car you said was stolen over in
Columbia! See if it ain't, sheriff!" cried the fellow who had done
all the shouting.

"It's the same make car, as sure as you live. I wouldn't be
surprised if it turned out to be Doc. Shadduck's new one,"
observed the official, glancing at a yellow paper he gripped in
his hand, and which, as he held it close to the one burning
headlight of the car, proved to be a telegraph dispatch.

"That's right, sheriff; it is Doctor Shadduck's car," said Frank
cheerfully, as he proceeded to alight.

"Hey! he's goin' to try and run for it, sheriff; nab him!"
exclaimed the voice.

"You admit that this is the car stolen from Columbia this very
night do you?" demanded the stern-faced man laying a hand on
Frank's shoulder.

"Of course I do, sheriff; but I'm shivering all over. I've been in
Jumper Creek not long ago. Come in with me while I get a cup of
hot coffee, and I'll tell you the story. You ought to know me,
sheriff; I'm Frank Allen. I've seen you in my father's store more
than once."

"What's that. Well, I declare now if it ain't so! This is getting
mighty interestin', sure. Here, Dobbs, you watch this car until I
come out. Now, my boy, come along with me," said the sheriff.

"All right, sir; just wait a couple of seconds. There's something
here in the car that Jim and Bart seemed to think a heap of, and
so I wouldn't like to lose sight of it just now."

Saying which Frank bent down and took hold of the little leather
bag. He had been surprised before to find it quite heavy, a fact
that had convinced him it must hold something which had been
stolen from the doctor over in Columbia.

Fortunately there was hot coffee to be obtained. While it was
coming Frank entertained the kindly sheriff with a rapid account
of what had happened, commencing with the duck hunt, and the
finding of the stranded car on the road home.

"Well, I never!" the other kept saying, as he sat there with his
eyes glued on the face of the young speaker, and drinking in his
words.

When Frank told of how he jumped over the railing of the bridge
that spanned Juniper Creek, the sheriff brought his hand down upon
his knee with a resounding slap.

"Beats anything I ever heard, I swan if it don't! And they tell me
that you captained them boys as played the Clifford football team
to a stand this mornin'. I don't wonder at it; they ain't much as
could stand up before such pluck! And so you went souse into the
creek? Ugh! it must a been a cold bath, Frank. Go on," he
exclaimed, enthusiastically.

"Oh! that's about all. I crawled out below, and when they came
down to hunt for me, because I'd fixed it so the machine couldn't
be run, I just crawled up the bank, jumped aboard, and was off.
Jim banged away after me a few times, but he was hurt so he had to
use his left hand, and I knew he couldn't hit a barn. That's all.
Here comes my coffee; I only hope I don't take cold."

The elated sheriff watched the youth gulp down the hot drink,
admiration in his eyes.

"I'll see to it that you have a big fur coat the rest of the way.
And I'm goin' along with you, boy, to be in at the finish. This is
too good to lose. Ain't had so much excitement in six months. Jim
and Bart is loose on the community. I'll just have word sent
around so they kin be pulled in if they try to get aboard any
train."

Ten minutes later and Frank again jumped into the captured car. He
was now warmly clad in a heavy automobile coat that would defy the
bracing air as they headed for Columbia, just seven miles distant.

"We'll make it in a quarter of an hour, easy," he remarked, as the
sheriff took a seat beside him.

"I reckon we oughter, Frank. I'd sure like to be in your shoes for
this. They'll think more of you in Columbia than ever, I reckon,"
remarked the officer, as they made a flying start, amid a few
cheers from the gathered crowd.

"Did you telegraph along the line about those men?" asked Frank,
desirous of seeing justice meted out to Jim and his companion.

"I did, and told the operator at Fayette to pass the good word
along everywhere. There's some reward out for the apprehension of
them fellows, and its enough to make every chief of police keep
busy in hopes of corralin' the same. Now tell me what them men
looked like. That job of cuttin' the wires was a cute one. I
reckon that Bart he's been servin' his time as a telegraph
wireman, and knows all the dodges."

Frank could not decline, although he would have much preferred
keeping silent as he drove the big car onward. The sheriff had
been so kind to him that he felt as though he could not refuse to
aid him in any way possible. So he described both men as nearly as
he could, considering what few glimpses he had had of their faces.

The seven miles proved a short ride. Having more confidence in the
machine now that the road was fine, and that hard object no longer
prodded him in the back, Frank let out quite some speed in places.

"I wonder if Bones and Ralph have gotten home yet?" he was
thinking, as the outskirts of Columbia came in sight.

Turning several corners, he arrived in front of Doctor Shadduck's
place. The house he saw was all lighted up. And standing in front
was the vehicle he and his two chums had used in their little
expedition after the ducks of the marsh.

"That tells the story. Bones has arrived ahead of me, after all.
Wonder if its struck him that he saw his father's new car, and me
in it driving those two precious rascals off so cheerfully?"

Frank chuckled at the thought. Just then there came a big shout,
as a figure rushed down the steps of the house.

"Here's the car, dad! And Sheriff Tucker's got one of the thieves
in custody, too! He's carrying your bag. Hey, Ralph, come out and
see the fun!"

Of course it was Bones, and since Frank was bundled up in that
great wolfskin automobile coat, with a hat pulled down over his
eyes in place of the cap he had lost in Juniper Creek, it was not
strange that the other failed to recognize his comrade.

"Halt! hands up, Bones!" cried Frank, throwing the little leather
bag forward menacingly.

"What! great smoke! if it ain't Frank--and he's brought the car
and the bag back home! Ralph said he would, just as soon as he
heard about it; but I was a doubter. I thought they'd just eat you
alive, Frank, old boy. Where'd you get the coat, and how'd the
sheriff happen on you? Did he do the rescue act?" demanded Bones,
throwing his arms around the other, enthusiastically.

"Did he? Not if he knew it, young man," replied the officer
himself, with a shake of the head; "but let's get inside, and the
whole story can be told while Frank warms up again. Your dad must
see to it that the boy don't take cold, for he's been in Juniper
Creek to-night!"

"Wow! now you have excited my curiosity some, Mr. Sheriff. Hurry
in, Frank, and let's hear what happened after you left us. We just
got home five minutes ago, and found the whole place upset. Those
slick scoundrels worked a confidence game on my governor--left him
in a stupor in his private office, after supper, with the door
locked, and skipped out with his new car and some valuables,
including negotiable stocks worth a good many thousands, and all
his expensive new surgical tools that he kept in that glass case,
you remember, in his consulting room." And Bones rattled this off
at a tremendous rate.

"Oh! I see," exclaimed the sheriff just then; "so that's who Jim
and Bart are. A couple of smart ones have been going around
visiting doctors upstate this two months past, and stealing their
instruments, to sell again in New York. I reckon we'll try to make
this their last job, all right."

"But your father--surely he couldn't have been lying there all
this time?" observed Frank, wondering how the news could have been
wired or phoned over to Plattville if this were so.

"Oh! no; Mr. Willoughby happened to drop over to ask dad something,
and when they couldn't get any answer, he broke in the door of
father's den. They found him just beginning to come out of his
sleep, for, what do you think, those rascals had chloroformed him,
as sure as you live," replied Bones.

"I understand now. Of course a general alarm was sent out for the
thieves. But they couldn't have reached Fayette if they tried,"
laughed Frank.

"And why not?" asked Bones, quickly.

"Wires down. Bart, the fellow who wasn't hurt, shinned up a pole,
by the aid of a pair of lineman's spurs he carried with him, and
cut every blessed wire soon after they made me turn into that road
leading to Fayette," replied Frank.

Doctor Shadduck they found pretty much himself. He greeted Frank
warmly, as did also Coach Willoughby.

"He's all wet, dad; he's been in Juniper Creek, the sheriff says.
There's a story back of it, and I'm just dying to hear it," cried
Bones, shoving the other forward.

"First of all, please see if everything is safe here," said Frank,
as he thrust the bag into the hands of the doctor.

"Everything they got, so far as I can see, is here. It's wonderful
how you happened to get hold of them, and the car too," said the
doctor, shaking the boy's hand again warmly.

"There's where you're mistaken, dad; it didn't happen at all, and
I'd wager on it that Frank played a right hot game with those two
rascals, and beat them out in a square deal," declared Bones,
sturdily.

"Bully for you, Bones," remarked the sheriff; "you just bet he
did. Wait till you hear the whole story. It's the greatest ever."

Of course Frank related all that had happened to him; but first of
all the wise physician insisted upon giving him something that
would prevent any ill effects following his cold plunge and
subsequent wild ride.

Meanwhile Frank's father and mother were called over, and the
story had to be told again for their benefit; though Frank tried
to beg off, and declared that after all it had been just good luck
that carried him through.




CHAPTER XX

FRANK'S LUCK


Perhaps it was just as well that a day of rest followed that
strenuous Saturday.

Frank found himself somewhat stiff and sore when he awoke, and
acting under the advice of his father he remained in seclusion the
better part of the day. But the story had gone around, and the
doorbell of the Allen home was kept busy throughout the whole
afternoon.

Half a dozen of Frank's most intimate chums dropped in to hear the
story, and Frank finally declared he would have to get it set up
in type and copies struck off if the demand kept on.

There were grown people who came also. Among others was Mr.
Cuthbert. Frank found his hand trembling a little nervously when
he saw him, thinking that possibly Minnie had sent a message; but
it seemed that if he had come over at her earnest solicitation the
gentleman had been instructed not to mention that fact.

"We believed it was Frank in that car," he said, as he shook hands
warmly with the boy; "and I even called out, for some of us
thought he looked toward us rather appealingly; but as no answer
came we concluded it must have been a mistake. To think we were so
close to those wretches, and didn't suspect anything wrong. Have
you heard the latest, Mr. Allen, and you Frank?"

"Are they caught?" asked Frank, instantly, jumping at the truth
from the expression he saw on the gentleman's face. "So it is
said; and I was told that Sheriff Tucker was the one who cornered
the pair of rogues after all," replied Mr. Cuthbert.

"Hurrah!" cried Ralph and Paul and the others in a chorus.

"Well, I'm glad that it fell to my friend, the sheriff of the next
county. He was mighty good to me and deserves all the reward there
is coming," was the remark of the one who was supposed to be the
most interested.

He was secretly bitterly disappointed because Minnie had not come
over, or asked her father to carry a message. Evidently, whatever
it may have been that had come between Minnie and her former
friends, the Allens, it was proving an insurmountable barrier.

And on Monday when Frank went to school, as usual, he had to
submit to being asked a thousand questions. Often he utterly
refused to answer anything further, he became so weary of hearing
about the matter.

Minnie appeared as distant as ever. But one thing Frank happened
to see that gave him more or less satisfaction; and this was the
utter humiliation of Lef Seller.

Lef had been standing around, listening to what was being said;
and the air of utter unbelief upon his sneering face told that had
he dared he would only too gladly have called the whole story a
freak of the imagination; and that in reality the credit belonged
to Sheriff Tucker, who had only allowed Frank to assume the
laurels because he wanted to get credit at the Allen department
store, where he was known to trade.

Just then Minnie happened to pass in company with her new chum,
Dottie Warren; and thinking to add a drop of bitterness to Frank's
cup of joy, Lef immediately posted after the two.

There were some words between them, during which it seemed as
though Minnie might be accusing Lef of saying something to which
she seriously objected. At any rate she walked on with her head
held high in the air, while Lef shrugged his shoulders, and not
daring to look toward the grinning group of boys, sauntered off.

Still, that new quarrel between the others did not heal the breach
that separated old friends. Frank tried to forget, and laughed as
merrily as though there was not a cloud on the horizon.

Professor Parke even called Frank into his study and requested him
to relate the strange thing that had happened. The head of
Columbia High School had a very tender spot in his heart for Frank
Allen, not alone because he was a bright pupil, but on account of
the clean character he bore among his fellows.

Coach Willoughby was staying over to see the last game of the
season. He declared that while he was losing money every day he
remained away from his law business, he could not find it in his
heart to desert the boys until they had safely landed that
beautiful silver cup in a deciding victory over Bellport.

Truth to tell, the old Princeton graduate was a thorough sport,
and once he had yielded to the call of the game he could not break
away.

"Don't you come out to practice for several days, Frank," he
advised, "on Wednesday perhaps, when we start to go over the
entire thing again and try new signals, it will be time. There are
a few weak spots in the team that need help, and I'm going to
devote two afternoons to them exclusively. Wander around, and
limber up with walks or a bicycle ride. But please don't employ your
spare time rounding up any more rascals, will you?"

"I'll try not to," laughed Frank; "but what's a fellow to do if
they will persist in throwing themselves at your head?"

"That's a fact, they did kidnap you, to be sure. Well, next time
try and see to it that the other fellow goes into Juniper Brook
and not you. That's a dangerous trick at this cold season of the
year; and especially taking a long ride afterward in an open car.
I wonder you didn't come down with pneumonia, Frank," said the
coach, as he threw one arm affectionately across the other's
shoulders.

"Oh! everybody was so kind. I had the loan of a coat first, and an
old hat; then Sheriff Tucker got me a big shaggy automobile fur
coat, which with the hot coffee helped ward off a cold. Finally
Doctor Shadduck dosed me good and hard. Nothing doing in that line
for me this time," laughed the boy.

It was on Tuesday afternoon that the time began to drag most
heavily on his hands. Paul and Ralph, together with Bones, had
gone to the recreation grounds to talk over matters with the
coach, and try out some new plays. Frank really knew of no one
whom he cared to look up just then.

A reaction seemed to have set in after his recent excitement, and
things were most woefully dull. The weather still held dry and
fair to a degree that was considered extraordinary for November,
usually so dismal with the approach of winter.

"I wonder if it wouldn't be worth while to take a spin on the
wheel," he mused as he considered the matter; "the chances are the
weather will change any day now, and then good-bye to wheeling for
the season. Besides, I really believe I'd like to turn down that
road to Fayette, and take another look at that old bridge. There
are a few things I don't quite understand about that affair."

The thought aroused him. Again he felt the blood circulating
through his veins with the old-time vigor; the stagnation had
departed, and it was with considerable elation that he hurried to
get his bicycle.

The fact that the bridge was a matter of ten miles or more away
did not give him cause for worry. He could easily make it in an
hour or less, and be back long before suppertime.

As he passed the school building he waved his hand to old Soggy,
the janitor and custodian, who was busily engaged with his daily
duties.

"Off after another lot, are ye?" laughed the good-natured old
fellow; "well, this time bring 'em in yourself, and don't be
botherin' no poor sheriff to help out. You ought to be ashamed, my
boy!"

Frank knew that old Soggy would have his joke, and he only laughed
in response. That was the one thing objectionable in doing
anything out of the ordinary run; every person thought they had a
right, either to make a hero out of him, or else sneer at the
story as something like the accepted fish yarn.

His wheel was in good shape, as always; the road seemed much
better for a bicycle than it had been for a car, and with the
bracing atmosphere made a combination difficult to surpass. Before
the hour was up he had dropped off at the bridge, and stood there
leaning on the rail looking down.

"H'm! after all, it was a good thing I knew so much about this
same place. If I'd jumped ten feet further along I'd have come
slap down on that ugly looking bunch of rocks that stick their
noses up above the water. Juniper is low, like all the other
streams around here, after this dry fall. But I knew there was a
deep pool right under and below the bridge."

So he mused as in imagination his eye followed his course after
reaching the water. He could see just where he had crawled out, as
Jim discovered later, when the fugitive was already half-way back
to the road again.

"He had to run uphill, and that's one reason why he couldn't head
me off, as Bart wanted him to do. Then that lame arm prevented him
from shooting decently. On the whole, I guess I was mighty lucky,"
he concluded.

After lingering around for a short time he once more mounted his
wheel and headed back toward Columbia. There were short-cuts that
he knew from former usage, by means of which several miles might
be saved. Something seemed to beckon him along this course, though
he hardly understood why he should want to shorten his run when he
was out for the exercise and air.

It was while he was traversing a farmer's lane that would bring
him out on the other road, and save two miles around, that Frank
for the first time noticed some one moving across a field, and
heading almost directly toward him. He noted the fact with some
surprise, because he happened to know that the farmer was the
possessor of a very vicious bull, which he often allowed the
freedom of that very pasture, in the summer and fall, for
exercise, so that the boys of Columbia always went around when
making for the old "swimming hole."

He had noticed the animal only a couple of minutes before,
trotting around back of the haystacks that ran along one end of
the field. If he ever caught sight of that feminine figure
crossing his preserves there would surely something be bound to
happen.

Frank, impelled by some sense of coming trouble, came to a stop
and caught hold of the high rail fence to hold himself on his
wheel while he looked. Somehow there seemed something wonderfully
familiar about the figure of the tripping maid; and his heart
seemed to almost stand still as she raised her head to look
around, and he discovered that it was Minnie Cuthbert, evidently
on the way to visit an uncle, who lived a short distance beyond
Farmer Blodgett.

Just as he made this interesting discovery he heard a dull roar
that struck a note of dismay at the door of his heart. The savage
bull, whom every one feared, had discovered the fair trespasser on
his preserves, and was coming on the run!




CHAPTER XXI

THE LIFTING OF THE CLOUD


"This way, Minnie! Run as fast as you can!"

The girl had looked back and discovered the advancing bull, which
sight caused her to shriek and became panic-stricken. Fortunately
the animal pursued peculiar tactics while bearing down upon his
expected victim. Running forward for a short distance, he would
stop to bellow furiously and toss up the turf with his short
horns, upon which gilt balls had been fastened by the farmer
owner.

Frank had jumped the fence like a flash, and was already rushing
toward Minnie. She caught sight of him, and naturally changed her
course so as to head in his direction. Perhaps just then she
hardly knew who it was coming to her assistance; but turned to any
port in a storm.

When they met it was at a distance of possibly thirty yards from
the fence. Frank immediately clutched her arm and began to hurry
her toward the haven of safety as rapidly as he could.

"Oh! Frank, he is coming faster!" gasped the girl, who had been
constrained to look back over her shoulder toward the threatening
danger.

"Never mind! Run! run" cried Frank, trying to instill new courage
in her heart.

At the same time he knew full well that they would never be able
to reach the fence and climb over before the enraged animal came
up. Something else must be done. How could he attract the
attention of the bull to himself while Minnie clambered over?

The question was not difficult to solve. She was, by the strangest
accident in the world, wearing a red sweater that buttoned down
the front. In other days they were known as Cardigan jackets, and
Frank could easily remember how charming Minnie had looked many a
time the previous winter in this same garment.

It was this that was adding fuel to the rage of the angry bull,
always attracted by a flaming color. Frank without regard to the
feelings of the astonished girl caught hold of this outer apparel,
and with one effort ripped the buttons loose. It was no time for
courtesy, nor could he waste a precious second in explaining just
why he did this strange thing.

Another effort and the sweater was in his hands. Minnie seemed to
realize by now what he had in his mind, for a weak little smile
appeared on her white face as she looked up at him.

"Run straight to the fence and climb over! I'll follow you, but
never mind me! Quick, Minnie, do as I say!" he exclaimed.

There was unconscious authority in his voice, just as when he
called to his players on the diamond or on the gridiron. Minnie
ran on, obeying his instructions thus far. She undoubtedly
expected that Frank meant to cast the offensive red sweater on the
ground, so as to attract the attention of the beast for a dozen
seconds, time enough to allow of his finding safety beyond the
barrier.

As she neared the high rail fence she turned her head again to
look. To her horror she saw Frank standing there, waving the
scarlet jacket wildly to and fro. He was challenging the oncoming
bull to make a run at him, actually endeavoring to attract the
animal's attention, so as to give Minnie ample time to escape.

Even as she stood there with quaking knees, staring, she saw Frank
suddenly and nimbly jump aside, and avoid the first mad rush of
the bull.

"Oh! Frank; run! run! He will kill you!" she shrieked, wringing
her hands hysterically; all the past forgotten in that one minute
of terror.

"Get over the fence! Get over the fence! The longer you delay the
worse for me! Climb over, Minnie!" came back the answering shout,
as Frank poised himself to repeat his former tactics.

Crying, she obeyed, though it seemed as though her half-blinded
eyes could hardly show her how to catch hold of the various bars;
but presently she had succeeded in gaining the outside of the
enclosure, and through the spaces between the rails she looked
again, her heart almost standing still with dread.

Frank was still on his feet, though he had been put to his best
efforts in order to escape those threatening horns.

"Now run, Frank! I'm over the fence!" she cried at the top of her
voice.

"All right! I'm coming!" he replied, as best he could, for his
antagonist just then made another vicious lunge, and it was only
by a shave that the athletic boy managed to escape those golden
balls that surmounted his massive head.

Now that he had accomplished the main object of his labor Frank
could devote his energies toward his own escape. When the bull
passed him he turned and bolted in the direction of the friendly
fence. The distance was too great to think of making it in one
run. As he flew along he expected to hear the pounding of the
bull's hoofs on the hard turf behind him, nor was he mistaken.

"He's coming, Frank! Oh! be careful!"

Minnie was calling this in trembling tones, and yet Frank paid
little or no attention to her warning, for he had to depend upon
his own instincts just then. At the proper instant he whirled
around. Already he had stamped the situation in his mind, and knew
to a fraction just how far away the fence lay.

Again he managed to escape the rush of the beast. Had he been an
experienced Spanish bull-fighter he could hardly have done better.
And again he changed his position. All he wanted was one more
chance, and he knew he could win out. This time the animal,
growing more and more enraged, came within a foot of striking the
boy, who was beginning to get winded with his efforts.

"Now!" cried Minnie, who seemed to recognize the opening when it
appeared.

Already was Frank in full motion, sprinting for the near-by fence
with all his might and main. He reached it even as the bull was
bearing down after him. One tremendous effort and he had mounted
the rails to fall in a heap on the other side--safe! The bull came
to a sudden halt within the enclosure, and vented his fury in more
bellowing and tearing up of the turf.

Minnie was at the side of her champion in a moment.

"Oh! Frank, are you hurt?" she exclaimed, as she caught hold of
him in her anxiety; and almost breathless as he was, the boy could
not help feeling a thrill of satisfaction at the prospect of the
breach between them being healed in this wonderful manner.

"Not a bit, Minnie, only short of breath. Here's your sweater,
safe and sound. Excuse me for taking it in that rude way, but you
see there wasn't much time for explanations," he managed to say,
as he started to put it on her again, an operation to which she
submitted with pleasure.

"And now," said Frank, as arm in arm they started to walk away
from the scene of the adventure, he rolling his wheel as he went,
"what was all this trouble about, Minnie? What terrible thing have
I done to make you treat both Helen and myself so? Neither of us
have the least idea, and she's very unhappy over it. Please let me
know."

Minnie looked troubled, and yet a gleam of hope began to appear in
her gray eyes.

"Oh! if you only could explain it away, I'd be so glad, Frank; so
glad," she said.

"Is it anything that Lef Seller has been saying about me?" he
asked, shortly.

"No, no. This is a matter that concerns only you and I. It was
about a letter you wrote, a note rather, that was intended for
Helen, and which--Oh! I don't know what to make of it, I've tried
so hard not to believe you meant it; but every time I look at that
note it stands out so plain, and gives me a shock."

She clung to his arm, and let her head sink as she spoke. Frank
knew that she was crying softly, too, and he was the most
mystified boy that could be found.

"A note that I wrote to Helen, and about you! Why, Minnie, surely
you must be mistaken. I don't ever remember doing anything of the
kind!" he declared.

"But I've got it still, Frank, right here in my little bag. Ten
times I tried to destroy it, and just couldn't," she exclaimed,
looking up at him.

"Let me see it, please," he said, his eyes filled with wonder.
With trembling hands she opened the little bag, to which she had
unconsciously clung through all her recent peril. From this she
took a folded piece of paper, that had apparently been frequently
handled, to judge from the creases.

When Frank examined what was written upon it his face first took
on a look of astonishment, and then amusement.

"I see," he said, slowly, "this is evidently about half of a page,
and torn in a diagonal way. Notice Minnie that it is only a
_portion_ of a note. There is another half, which will give
it an entirely different version! I admit that I wrote this note
to Helen in school one day. Then I changed my mind, and tore it in
half, intending to destroy it. Where did you happen to find this
piece, Minnie?"

"On the floor in the hall. Soggy was sweeping out when I went back
for something I had forgotten. Just by accident I saw your
writing, and unconsciously stooped to pick it up. Oh! Frank, what
a cruel shock it gave me," she said.

"Well, as near as I can remember, I tried to thrust both pieces
into my desk. This one must have fallen to the floor either then
or later, and was swept out. Perhaps the other half may still be
there, Minnie! Will you go with me around to the school now? The
sooner this strange thing is cleared up the better."

"If you say so, I'll be glad to go, Frank. But it's enough for me
to hear you say that it was not intended to warn Helen against
me," she replied, smiling up through her tears.

"Wait and see the proof first," laughed Frank.

They reached the high school building in due time. Soggy, the
janitor, was just about locking up, and upon hearing their request
readily allowed them to enter. Going straight to his desk, Frank
fumbled around inside eagerly, and then with an exclamation of
triumph drew out something.

"There, look!" he exclaimed, as he fitted the ragged edges of the
two pieces of paper together on the top of the desk. "You see they
match perfectly. Now read out loud what I was writing to my sister
that day, and changed my mind, intending to talk with her when we
got home."

And Minnie read this:

HELEN
Don't believe all you           hear. In the first place it's
nonsense to think that you         could expect the truth
from one so shallow as Min          erva Stone. I never liked her.
She may seem all right as a friend, but         I'd advise you to have
little to do with her. She says one         thing to your face and
another to your back. I'm afraid she's          deceptive, and that's
about the meanest trait any girl can have. Bett        er let your
new friendship gradually cool, and drop her altogeth         er. Honestly,
to tell the truth, I think Minnie Cuthbert ought to be en       ough
chum for you.
FRANK.

When she finished this she looked up at him with tear-steeped
eyes.

"We're friends again once more, Minnie, are we not." he asked,
smiling.

"Yes, good friends; true friends, I hope Frank!" she replied as
they clasped hands, and a pair of happy gray eyes looked up shyly
into the darker orbs of the boy.




CHAPTER XXII

HOW BELLPORT BUCKED THE LINE


As so frequently happens, Thanksgiving Day was overcast and cold,
the air having a tang as of threatening snow.

"Bully football weather!" shouted the fans, as they crowded into
the great park-like field at Columbia; the toss of a coin during
the week having given Frank's team the privilege of playing on
their home grounds.

There was even a greater crowd present than on the occasion of the
game with Clifford. This struggle was to effectually decide the
ownership of that coveted silver cup, and the championship of the
tri-school league for the season.

Everybody who could possibly get there was present. The grandstand
seemed to be a waving mass of color with the various little flags,
and the gay wraps of the school girls, intensely interested in
this battle of brawn and skill between their brothers.

Naturally those from Clifford gathered together for the most part;
and Bellport had sent an enormous delegation to whoop things up
for her sturdy team.

Indeed, those Bellport players did look like a serious proposition
as they scampered back and forth across the field before the time
for play had arrived. Many a timid heart among Columbia's friends
felt as though the chances were very much against such a victory
as had been won over Clifford.

Such enthusiasm as abounded! Cheers arose everywhere. Bands of
students went about, headed by some valiant cheer captain, and
made all other sounds insignificant beside their clamor, as they
chanted their school yell in common, or sang the favorite songs of
their classes.

"We're going to see a hot old game, anyhow!" cried Buster
Billings, as he sat on the bench in the grandstand, being reckoned
of little account as a football player, however much he might
shine in baseball.

"What's Bellport's line-up? Seems to me nearly every face here is
familiar; and I reckon their entire baseball squad has qualified
for the gridiron," remarked another observer.

"Just as you say, there's not a fellow missing," sighed Buster;
"but then, none of them happens to be gifted with the heft that
fastened its fatal clutches on me at an early age. I'd give the
world to play football, but though they've tried me several times,
it's always back to the scrap heap for poor Buster boy."

"Well, they left me out this time, too; my first half in the game
with Clifford wasn't a howling success. But at any rate I'm a sub,
and if a few of the boys get carried off the field they may call
on me," and Jack Eastwick patted his chest in anticipation of the
slaughter to come.

For the concluding tussle of the High School League the contending
teams presented this line-up:

                        _COLUMBIA._


                          Comfort
                          _F.B._


          Allen, Captain.                  West.
          _R.H.B.                        L.H.B._


                           Wallace.
                          _Q.B._


  Shadduck. Oakes.   Harper.  Bird.   Daly.  Shay.   Morris.
 _R.E.    R.T.     R.G.    Center.  L.G.    L.T.     L.E._


                           _BELLPORT._


Clay.   Coddling. Smith, Jr.  Lacy. Alpers.  Macy.  Smith, Sr.
 _L.E.    L.T.     L.G.    Center.  R.G.   R.T.    R.E._


                            Snodgrass.
                            _Q.B._


           Banghardt.                      Bardwell.
           _L.H.B.                         R.H.B._


                             Lee, Captain.
                               _F.B._

The same referee officiated who had managed the game with Clifford
so well. And the coach of each team was busily engaged giving the
last instructions, since the time specified for the opening kick-off
was very near.

Columbia was not boisterous, but there was a look of grim
determination visible on the faces of Frank Allen and his fellows
that counted for much.

"It's better to shout after you're out of the woods, fellows,"
said the captain, as he drew his squad around him for a last word
ere going upon the field.

This time Frank was lucky, and won the toss. He immediately
selected the goal from which the cold November wind blew, as that
gave Columbia considerable advantage to start with, though it
would be evened up later when the second half brought about a
change in base. Still, by then the wind might have died out, and
the advantage lost.

Lee opened matters with a beautiful kick, but the oval was
captured, and it came Columbia's turn.

Comfort smashed out a fine one, sending the oval far down the
enemy's territory. And so fast did the other Columbia fellows
chase after it, that when Bellport secured the ball through a
clever catch, they found no chance to do anything more than return
the kick.

After that the fight was on. Columbia sent the ball back into the
territory of the enemy, and at such a bewildering angle, thanks to
the wonderful spiral kick of Jack Comfort, that the player who attempted
to clasp it in his arms allowed it to get away.

"Go it, you tigers!" shrieked many in the crowd, as they saw
several Columbia men making furious efforts to reach the rolling
oval before any of the enemy could throw themselves upon it.

But Coddling was there in time to drop on the ball, though hardly
had he done so than Shadduck landed on his back, together with
various others belonging to both teams.

Now Bellport had the ball, and there was great curiosity to know
what success they would have in bucking the Columbia line. Report
had it that never had Bellport been so strong in her line of
attack; and Clifford enthusiasts had warned their neighbors of
what was in store for them this day.

Bellport rushed into the fray. The artful Lacy, he who had played
such a clever game as shortstop in the baseball tournament the
preceding season, snapped the ball to Snodgrass, who plunged
straight for the middle of the Columbia line backed up by a solid
wedge that seemed capable of carrying the heavy quarter-back
through.

There was a confused mass of struggling players, and a great
cloud of dust, in which figures were to be seen pushing this way
and that.

[Illustration: THERE WAS A CONFUSED MASS OF STRUGGLING PLAYERS.]

"He's down!" shouted hundreds as the dust passed off with the
wind, and they could see the situation again.

"But he took several yards with him, and Bellport has the ball.
What d'ye think of that sledgehammer way of carrying things, eh?
Wait till Snodgrass and Banghardt and Bardwell get working
together, and you'll see the Columbia defense crumple up like dead
leaves in a fire!"

Of course it was a Bellport admirer who said this; but those who
heard only laughed and waved their Columbia flags the more
fiercely. They had full confidence in their boys, and knew what
Frank could get out of them in an emergency.

Once more the teams were lined up, watching each other like so
many wild animals, hungry and eager. Lee shouted out some signals
in his sonorous voice. It sounded very like the previous set, but
only those in the secret could know whether the slight difference
meant a new change of action or not.

Then the ball was put in play. Like lightning it passed from
Lacy's hands. Snodgrass made out to receive it, and once more
plunged for the center, as if intending to break through, with
several of his fellows backing him up. The deception was so
complete t