it in strong force, but the wild bulls were so fierce that the bravest
were driven back, and the dangerous task abandoned. Calves had been
born in the fastnesses of the "Devil's Wood Pile," and had grown old
without being branded by their owners, who feared the sharp horns of
the paternal bulls, the courageous defenders of their native pastures.

Skirting the marshy savannas of His Satanic Majesty's earthly
dominion, I ascended the Steinhatchee River, when a clearing with a
rough house and store gave unmistakable signs of the proximity of the
settler of whom I had heard. I was preparing to make my camp near the
landing, when the proprietor made his appearance, courteously inviting
me to his house, where he held me a willing prisoner for three days,
giving me much information in regard to life in the woods. He had been
a soldier in the Seminole war, and had passed through varied
experiences, but had "settled down," as he expressed it, to the red-
cedar business. Six long years had this man and his wife delved and
toiled in the desolate region of Deadman's Bay, seeing no one except a
few cedar-cutters from the interior, who stocked up at his store
before going into the wilderness.

A great deal of red cedar is cut on the shores and in the back country
of the Steinhatchee River. The squatters and small farmers, called
crackers, engaged in this work, are not hampered by the eighth
commandment, and Uncle Sam has to suffer in consequence, most of the
timber being cut on United States government reserves. It finds its
way to the cedar warehouses of merchants in the town of Cedar Keys. I
have seen whole rafts of this valuable red cedar towed into Cedar Keys
and sold there, when the parties purchasing knew it to be stolen from
the government lands. My kind host, Mr. James H. Stephens, was the
first honest purchaser of this government cedar I had met, for he
cheerfully and promptly paid the requisite tax upon it, and seemed to
be endeavoring to protect the property of the government.

From Mr. Stephens's hospitable home I proceeded along the Gulf, past
Rocky Creek, to Frog Island, a treeless bit of territory where a
little shanty had been erected by the Coast Survey officers to shelter
a tide-gauge watcher. The island was now deserted. The coast was
indeed desolate, and it was a cheering sight in the middle of the
afternoon to catch a glimpse of signs of the past presence of man on
Pepperfish Key, an island a little distance from land, rising out of
the sparkling sea, and crowned with a rough but picturesque shanty,--
another reminder of the untiring efforts of our Coast Survey Bureau.

A prominent point of land near this islet runs far into the Gulf, and
is known as Bowlegs Point, supposed to be named after a chief of the
Seminole Indians, whom I happened to meet many years before I saw the
point which had the honor of bearing his name. Our meeting was in a
southern city, but I had the misfortune to appear on the wrong day,
and lost the honor of being received by that celebrity, as he had
partaken too freely of the hospitality of his white friends, and could
only utter, "Big Injuin don't receive! Big Injuin too much drunk!"

As night approached I crossed a large bay, and entered the very shoal
water off Horse Shoe Point, close to Horse Shoe and Bird islands.
These pretty islets were green with palmetto and other foliage, while
upon the firm land of Horse Shoe Point appeared, in the last rays of
the setting sun, a white sandy strand crowned with a palmetto hut and
a little white tent. Two finely modelled boats rested upon the beach,
and five miles out to sea was pictured upon the horizon, like a
phantom ship, the weird and indistinct outlines of a United States
Coast Survey schooner. The tide was on the last of the ebb, and
finding it impossible to get within half a mile of the point, I
anchored my little craft, built a fire in my bake-kettle, made coffee
on board, and, quietly turning in for a doze, rested until the tide
arose, when in the darkness I hauled my boat ashore and awaited the
"break o' day."

As soon after breakfast as wood-etiquette admitted, I joined the party
on the beach, and was welcomed to their breakfast-table under the
shelter of their pretty white tent; learning, much to my satisfaction,
that I was an expected guest, as my arrival had been looked for some
days before. This party from the schooner "Ready" was engaged in
establishing a base-line two miles in length at Horse Shoe Point, and
was under the charge of Mr. F. Whalley Perkins, who was assisted by
Messrs. John De Wolf, R. E. Duvall, Jr., and William S. Bond.

The readers of my "Voyage of the Paper Canoe" may recognize in Mr.
Bond, a member of this party, a gentleman whom I had met on board the
Coast Survey vessel "Casswell," in Bull's Bay, on the South Carolina
coast, the previous winter. Only those who have gone through similar
experiences can imagine what I felt at being thus brought into contact
with men of intelligence. It was as though a man had been pulling
through a heavy fog, and suddenly the sun burst forth in all its
glory. Nature is grand and restful, and green savannas and tranquil
waters leave fair pictures in our memories; but after all, man is
eminently a social being, and needs companions of his kind.

[Map of Maria Theresa portage Suwanee-St. Marks.]

My lonely voyage had been so monotonous that this return to the
society of civilized man had a peculiar effect upon my mind, it being
in so receptive a state that the most minute incident was noted; and
the tent with its surroundings, the breakfast-table with its genial
hosts, the very appearance of the water and the sky, were so indelibly
impressed upon my memory that they never can be effaced. It is
fortunate the picture is a pleasant one, as in fact were all the hours
passed with the gentlemen of the schooner Ready.

On Saturday evening the party prepared to go on board the Ready; and
as I was to pass Sunday with them, it was deemed prudent to send my
boat to a safe anchorage-ground on the east side of Horse Shoe Bay,
where, moored among some islands, my floating home would be protected
from boisterous seas and covetous fishermen.

Climbing the sides of the Ready, I was filled with admiration for the
beautiful vessel, the last one built especially for the Coast Survey
service. The entire craft, with its clean decks and well-arranged
interior, was a model of order and skilful arrangement. The home-like
cabin, with its books and various souvenirs of the officers, was in
strange contrast with the close quarters of my own little boat. The
day was most pleasantly passed; and as the morrow threatened to be
windy, Mr. Perkins kindly offered to put me on board the sneak-box
before sunset. The gig was manned by a stalwart crew of sailors, and
the chief of the party took the tiller ropes in his hands as we dashed
away through the waves towards Horse Shoe Bay.

At four in the afternoon we entered the sheltered waters of a
miniature archipelago close to the coast, and I beheld with a degree
of affection and satisfaction, experienced only by a boat man, my own
little craft floating safely at her moorings. The officers gave me a
sailor's hearty farewell, the boat's crew bent to their oars and were
soon far in the offing, growing each moment more indistinct while I
gazed, until a white speck, like a gull resting upon the sea, was the
only visible sign left me of Mr. Perkins and his party.

My voyage of twenty-six hundred miles was nearly ended. The beautiful
Suwanee River, from which I had emerged in my paper canoe one year
before, (when I had terminated a voyage of twenty-five hundred miles
begun in the high latitude of Canada,) was only a few miles to the
eastward. Upon reaching its debouchure on the Gulf coast, the termini
of the two voyages would be united. It would be only a few hours' pull
from the mouth of the Suwanee to the port of Cedar Keys, whose
railroad facilities offered to the boat and her captain quick
transportation across the peninsula of Florida to Fernandina, on the
Atlantic coast, where kind friends had prepared for my arrival.

While I gazed upon the smooth sea, a longing to pass the night on the
dark waters of the river of song took possession of me, and
mechanically weighing anchor, I took up my oars and pulled along the
coast to my goal. Before sunset, the old landmark of the mouth of the
Suwanee(the iron boiler of a wrecked blockade-runner) appeared above
the shoal water, and I began to search for the little hammock, called
Bradford's Island, where one year before I had spent my last night on
the Gulf of Mexico with the "Maria Theresa," my little paper canoe.
Soon it rose like a green spot in the desert, the well-remembered
grove coming into view, with the half-dead oak's scraggy branches
peering out of the feathery tops of the palmettos.

Entering the swift current of the river, I gazed out upon the sea,
which was bounded only by the distant horizon. The sun was slowly
sinking into the green of the western wilderness. A huge saurian
dragged his mail-clad body out of the water, and settled quietly in
his oozy bed. The sea glimmered in the long, horizontal rays of light
which clothed it in a sheen of silver and of gold. The wild sea-gulls
winnowed the air with their wings, as they settled in little flocks
upon the smooth water, as though to enjoy the bath of soft sunlight
that came from the west. The great forests behind the marshes grew
dark as the sun slowly disappeared, while palm-crowned hammocks on the
savannas stood out in bold relief like islets in a sea of green. The
sun disappeared, and the soft air became heavy with the mists of night
as I sank upon my hard bed with a feeling of gratitude to Him, whose
all-protecting arm had been with me in sunshine and in storm.

Lying there under the tender sky, lighted with myriads of glittering
stars, a soft gleam of light stretched like a golden band along the
water until it was lost in the line of the horizon. Beyond it all was
darkness. It seemed to be the path I had taken, the course of my
faithful boat. Back in the darkness were the ice-cakes of the Ohio,
the various dangers I had encountered. All I could see was the band of
shining light, the bright end of the voyage.

[Last night on the Gulf of Mexico.]









This eBook was created by Charles Aldarondo





The Works of E. P. ROE

FROM JEST TO EARNEST







DEDICATION.





This book is dedicated in fraternal affection to the friend of my
youth and maturer years--the REV. A. MOSS MERWIN, who, with every
avenue of earthly ambition open to him at home, and with every
motive urged upon him to remain at home, has been for years, and
is now, a faithful missionary in a foreign land.






CONTENTS





CHAPTER I. A PRACTICAL JOKE

CHAPTER II. THE VICTIM

CHAPTER III. PUZZLED AND INTERESTED

CHAPTER IV. A LITTLE PAGAN

CHAPTER V. PLAIN TALK

CHAPTER VI. A SLEIGH-RIDE AND SOMETHING MORE

CHAPTER VII. ANOTHER SPELL THAN BEAUTY'S

CHAPTER VIII. FINDING ONE'S LEVEL

CHAPTER IX. "THE OTHER SET"

CHAPTER X. HUMAN NATURE

CHAPTER XI. A POSSIBLE TRAGEDY

CHAPTER XII. MISS MARSDEN ASKS SOMBRE QUESTIONS

CHAPTER XIII. A LOVER QUENCHED

CHAPTER XIV. LOTTIE A MYSTERIOUS PROBLEM

CHAPTER XV. HEMSTEAD SEES "OUR SET"

CHAPTER XVI. HOW WOMAN MAKES OR MARS

CHAPTER XVII. MIDNIGHT VIGILS

CHAPTER XVIII. HEMSTEAD'S HEAVY GUN AND ITS RECOIL

CHAPTER XIX. THE PREACHER TAUGHT BY THE PAGAN

CHAPTER XX. THE DAWNING LIGHT

CHAPTER XXI. MISUNDERSTOOD

CHAPTER XXII. "YOU MUST WAIT AND SEE"

CHAPTER XXIII. A RATIONALIST OF THE OLD SCHOOL

CHAPTER XXIV. THE TERROR OF A GREAT FEAR

CHAPTER XXV. A TRUE KNIGHT

CHAPTER XXVI. ON A CRUMBLING ICE-FLOE

CHAPTER XXVII. THE MEETING AND GREETING

CHAPTER XXVIII. THE TRIAL OF LOVE

CHAPTER XXIX. HEMSTEAD'S ADVICE, AND LOTTIE'S COLORS

CHAPTER XXX. AROUND THE YULE-LOG

CHAPTER XXXI. UNDER THE MISTLETOE

CHAPTER XXXII. THE CHRISTMAS SUNDAY

CHAPTER XXXIII. THE END OF THE "JEST"

CHAPTER XXXIV. LOYAL

CHAPTER XXXV. MR. DIMMERLY CONCLUDES TO "MEDDLE"

CHAPTER XXXVI. A NIGHT IN THE SNOW

CHAPTER XXXVII. IN EARNEST






FROM JEST TO EARNEST.

CHAPTER I.

A PRACTICAL JOKE.





On a cloudy December morning a gentleman, two ladies, and a boy
stepped down from the express train at a station just above the
Highlands on the Hudson. A double sleigh, overflowing with luxurious
robes, stood near, and a portly coachman with difficulty restrained
his spirited horses while the little party arranged themselves for
a winter ride.  Both the ladies were young, and the gentleman's
anxious and almost tender solicitude for one of them seemed hardly
warranted by her blooming cheeks and sprightly movements.  A close
observer might soon suspect that his assiduous attentions  were
caused by a malady of his own rather than by indisposition on her
part.

The other young lady received but scant politeness, though seemingly
in greater need of it. But the words of Scripture applied to
her beautiful companion, "Whosoever hath, to him shall be given,
and he shall have more abundance." She had been surfeited all her
life with attention, and though she would certainly have felt its
absence, as she would the loss of wealth, life-long familiarity
with both led her to place no special value upon them.

Therefore during the half-hour's ride her spirits rose with the
rapid motion, and even the leaden sky and winter's bleakness could
not prevent the shifting landscape from being a source of pleasure
to her city eyes, while the devotion  of her admirer or lover was
received as a matter of course.

The frosty air brought color into her companion's usually pale
face, but not of an attractive kind, for the north-east wind that
deepened the vermilion in the beauty's cheek could only tinge that
of the other with a ghastly blue. The delicate creature shivered
and sighed.

"I wish we were there."

"Really, Bel, I sometimes think your veins are filled with water
instead of blood. It's not cold to-day, is it, Mr. De Forrest?"

"Well, all I can say with certainty," he replied, "is that I have
been in a glow for the last two hours. I thought it was chilly
before that."

"You are near to 'glory' then," cried the boy saucily, from his
perch on the driver's box.

"Of course I am," said Mr. De Forrest in a low tone, and leaning
towards the maiden.

"You are both nearer being silly," she replied, pettishly.  "Dan,
behave yourself, and speak when you are spoken to."

The boy announced his independence of sisterly control by beginning
to whistle, and the young lady addressed as "Bel" remarked, "Mr.
De Forrest is no judge of the weather under the circumstances. He
doubtless regards the day as bright and serene. But he was evidently
a correct  judge up to the time he joined you, Lottie."

"He joined you as much as he did me."

"O, pardon me; yes, I believe I was present."

"I hope I have failed in no act of politeness, Miss Bel," said De
Forrest, a little stiffly.

"I have no complaints to make. Indeed, I have fared well, considering
that one is sometimes worse than a crowd."

"Nonsense!" said Lottie, petulantly; and the young man tried not
to appear annoyed.

The sleigh now dashed in between rustic gate-posts  composed of rough
pillars of granite; and proceeding along an avenue that sometimes
skirted a wooded ravine, and again wound through picturesque groupings
of evergreens, they soon reached a mansion of considerable size,
which bore evidence of greater age than is usual with the homes in
our new world.

They had hardly crossed the threshold into the hall before they
were hospitably welcomed by a widowed lady, whose hair was slightly
tinged with gray, and by her eldest daughter.

The greetings were so cordial as to indicate ties of blood, and
the guests were shown to their rooms, and told to  prepare for an
early dinner.

In brief, Mrs. Marchmont, the mistress of the mansion, had gratified
her daughter's wish (as she did all her fancies) by permitting her
to invite a number of young friends for the Christmas holidays.
Both mother and daughter were fond of society, and it required no
hospitable effort to  welcome visitors at a season when a majority
of their friends had fled from the dreariness of winter to city
homes.  Indeed, they regarded it as almost an honor that so prominent
a belle as Charlotte Marsden had consented to spend a few weeks
with them at a time when country life is at a large discount with
the fashionable. They surmised that the presence of Mr. De Forrest,
a distant relative of both Miss Marsden and themselves, would be
agreeable to all  concerned, and were not mistaken; and to Miss
Lottie the presence of a few admirers--she would not entertain the
idea that they were lovers--had become an ordinary necessity  of
life. Mr. De Forrest was an unusually interesting specimen of the
genus,--handsome, an adept in the mode and etiquette of the hour,
attentive as her own shadow, and quite as subservient.

His love-making would equal his toilet in elegance. All would be
delicately suggested by touch of hand or glance of eye, and yet he
would keep pace with the wild and  wayward beauty in as desperate
a flirtation as she would permit.

Miss Lottie had left her city home with no self-sacrificing purpose
to become a martyr for the sake of country relatives.  She had
wearied of the familiar round of metropolitan gayety; but life on
the Hudson during midwinter was an entire novelty. Therefore, as
her little brother had been included in the invitation, they had
started on what was emphatically a frolic to both.

Bel Parton, her companion, was another city cousin of the Marchmonts,
with whom they were in the habit of  exchanging visits. She was
also an intimate of Lottie's, the two being drawn together by the
mysterious affinity of opposites.

She was indeed a very different girl from Lottie Marsden, and many
would regard her as a better one. Her face and character were of a
type only too familiar to close observers of society. She was the
beginning of several desirable things, but the pattern was in no
instance finished, and was always ravelling out on one side or the
other. She had the features of a pretty girl, but ill health and
the absence of a pleasing expression spoiled them. She had a fine
education, but did not know what to do with it; considerable talent,
but no energy; too much conscience, as she had not the resolution
to obey it. Her life was passed mainly in easy chairs, chronic
dyspepsia, and feeble protest against herself and all the world.

Lottie often half provoked but never roused her by saying: "Bel,
you are the most negative creature I ever knew.  Why don't you do
something or be something out and out?  Well, ''Tis an ill wind
that blows nobody any good.' You make an excellent foil for me."

And gloriously rich and tropical did Lottie appear against the
colorless background of her friend. Bel felt that she suffered
by the comparison so frankly indicated, but was too indolent and
irresolute to change for the better or avoid companionship with
one whose positive and full-blooded nature seemed to supplement
her own meagre life.

When all appeared in the dining-room the shades and contrasts in
character became more evident. At the head of the table sat a gentleman
as yet not introduced, Mr.  Dimmerly by name, a bachelor brother
of Mrs. Marchmont who resided with her. He was a quaint-appearing
little man, who in a greater degree than his age required seemed
to belong to a former generation. His manners were too stately for
his stature, and he was embarrassed by his elaborate efforts at
politeness as his movements might have been by too ample garments.

He and his sister were representatives of one of the "old families"
of the State, and, like their mansion, reminded one of the past.
Indeed, they seemed to cherish, as a matter of pride and choice,
their savor of antiquity, instinctively  recognizing that their
claims upon society were inherited rather than earned.

Old families do not always appear to accumulate the elements of
greatness to such a degree that there is an  increasing and almost
irresistible impetus of force and genius.  Successive generations
are not necessarily born to a richer dower of mind and morals.
Too often it would seem that the great qualities that in the first
place launched a family on a brilliant career expend themselves,
until the latest scion, like a spent arrow, drops into insignificance.

Mrs. Marchmont was regarded by society as an elegant woman, and
she was, in all externals. The controlling principle  of her life
was precedent. What had been customary, and still obtained among
the "good old families," had a flavor of divine right in it.

Alas for the Marchmont family, for the young lady of the house
seemed inclined to maintain and perpetuate nothing save her own
will, and had no special development in any respect, save a passion
for her own way. Still she was one of those girls whom society calls
a "pretty little thing," and was predestined to marry some large,
good-natured man who would imagine that she would make a nice
little pet, a household fairy, but who might learn to his dismay
that the fairy could be a tormenting elf. She would not marry
the young gentleman with whom her name was at present  associated
by the gossips, and who had driven over that morning to help her
entertain the expected guests. Mr. Harcourt and Miss Marchmont
understood each other. He was a distant relative of her mother's,
and so under the disguise of kinship could be very familiar.
The tie between them was composed of one part friendship and two
parts flirtation.  He had recently begun the practice of law in a
neighboring town, and found the Marchmont residence a very agreeable
place at which to spend his leisure. It was Miss Marchmont's
purpose that he should form one of the gay party that would make
the holiday season a prolonged frolic. He, nothing loath, accepted
the invitation, and appeared in time for dinner. To many he seemed
to possess a dual nature. He had a quick, keen intellect, and,
during business  hours, gave an absorbed attention to his profession.
At other times he was equally well known as a sporting man, with
tendencies somewhat fast.

Mrs. Marchmont's well-appointed dining-room was peculiarly  attractive
that wintry day. Finished off in some dark wood on which the ruddy
hickory fire glistened warmly, it made a pleasing contrast to the
cold whiteness of the snow without. A portly colored waiter in dress
coat seemed the appropriate presiding genius of the place, and in
his ebon hands the polished silver and crystal were doubly luminous.

And yet the family, with its lack of original force, its fading
traditions of past greatness, made rather a dim and neutral tint,
against which such a girl as Charlotte Marsden appeared as the
glowing embodiment of the vivid and  intense spirit of the present
age. Her naturally energetic and mercurial nature had been cradled
among the excitements of the gayest and giddiest city on the continent.
A phlegmatic  uncle had remarked to her, in view of inherited and
developed characteristics, "Lottie, what in ordinary girls is a
soul, in you is a flame of fire."

As she sat at the table, doing ample justice to the  substantial
viands, she did appear as warm and glowing as the coals of hard-wood,
which, ripened in the sunshine, lay upon the hearth opposite.

The bon-vivant, Julian De Forrest, found time for many admiring
glances, of which Lottie was as agreeably conscious as of the other
comforts and luxuries of the hour. They were all very much upon
the same level in her estimation.

But De Forrest would ask no better destiny than to bask in the light
and witchery of so glorious a creature. Little did he understand
himself or her, or the life before him. It would have been a woful
match for both. In a certain sense he would be like the ambitious
mouse that espoused the lioness. The polished and selfish idler,
with a career  devoted to elegant nothings, would fret and chafe
such a nature as hers into almost frenzy, had she no escape from
him.

There would be fewer unhappy marriages if the young, instead
of following impulses and passing fancies, would ask, How will
our lives accord when our present tendencies and temperaments are
fully developed? It would need no  prophetic eye to foresee in many
cases, not supplemental and helpful differences, but only hopeless
discord. Yet it is hard for a romantic youth to realize that the
smiling maiden before him, with a cheek of peach-bloom and eyes
full of mirth and tenderness, can become as shrewish as Xantippe
herself. And many a woman becomes stubborn and acid, rather than
sweet, by allowing herself to be persuaded into marrying the wrong
man, and then by not having the good sense to make the best of it.

Alas! experience also proves that, of all prosaic, selfish grumblers,
your over-gallant lover makes the worst. And yet, while the world
stands, multitudes will no doubt eagerly seek the privilege of
becoming mutual tormentors.

Lottie thought Mr. De Forrest "very nice." She liked him better than
any one else she had met and flirted with since her school-days,
during which period of sincerity and immaturity she had had several
acute attacks of what she imagined to be the "grand passion." But
as the objects were as absurd as her emotions, and the malady soon
ran, its course, she began to regard the whole subject as a jest,
and think, with her fashionable mother, that the heart was the last
organ to be consulted in the choice of a husband, as it was almost
sure to lead to folly. While her heart slept, it was easy to agree
with her mother's philosophy. But it would be a sad thing for
Charlotte Marsden if her heart should become awakened when her will
or duty was at variance with its cravings. She might act rightly,
she might suffer in patience, but it would require ten times the
effort that the majority of her sex would have to make.

Her mother thought that the elegant and wealthy Mr. De Forrest was
the very one of all the city for her beautiful daughter, and Lottie
gave a careless assent, for certainly he was "very nice." He would
answer, as well as any one she had ever seen, for the inevitable
adjunct of her life. He had always united agreeably the characters
of cousin, playmate,  and lover, and why might he not add that of
husband?  But for the latter relation she was in no haste. Time
enough for that in the indefinite future. She loved the liberty
and year-long frolic of her maiden life, though in truth she had no
idea of settling down on becoming a matron. In the mean time, while
she laughed at De Forrest's love-making, she did not discourage it,
and the young man felt that his clear understanding with the mother
was almost equal to an engagement to the daughter. He welcomed this
country visit with peculiar satisfaction, feeling that it would
bring matters to a crisis. He was not mistaken.

By the time they were sipping their coffee after dessert, the promise
of the leaden sky of the morning was fulfilled in a snow-storm, not
consisting of feathery flakes that  fluttered down as if undecided
where to alight, but of sharp, fine crystals that slanted steadily
from the north-east. The afternoon sleigh-ride must be given up,
and even the children looked ruefully and hopelessly out, and then
made the best of in-door amusements.

Miss Marchmont gathered her guests around the parlor fire, and fancy
work and city gossip were in order. The quiet flow and ripple of
small talk was suddenly interrupted by her petulant exclamation:

"Oh! I forgot to tell you a bit of unpleasant news.  Mother,
without consulting me, has invited a poor and poky cousin of ours
to spend the holidays with us also. He is from the West, green as
a gooseberry, and, what's far worse, he's studying for the ministry,
and no doubt will want to preach at us all the time. I don't know
when I've been more provoked, but mother said it was too late, she
had  invited him, and he was coming. I fear he will be a dreadful
restraint, a sort of wet blanket on all our fun, for one must be
polite, you know, in one's own house."

"I am under no special obligation to be polite," laughed Lottie.
"Mark my words. I will shock your pious and proper cousin till he
is ready to write a book on total depravity. It will be good sport
till I am tired of it."

"No, Lottie, you shall not give such a false impression of yourself,
even in a joke," said Bel. "I will tell him, if he can't see, that
you are not a sinner above all in Galilee."

"No, my matter-of-fact cousin, you shall not tell him  anything.
Why should I care what he thinks? Already in fancy I see his face
elongate, and his eyes dilate, in holy horror at my wickedness. If
there is one thing I love to do more than another, it is to shock
your eminently good and proper people."

"Why, Miss Lottie," chuckled De Forrest, "to hear you talk, one
would think you were past praying for."

"No, not till I am married."

"In that sense I am always at my devotions."

"Perhaps you had better read the fable of the Frogs and King Stork."

"Thank you. I had never dared to hope that you  regarded me as good
enough to eat."

"No, only to peck at."

"But listen to Miss Addie's proposal. If I mistake not, there is
no end of fun in it," said Mr. Harcourt.

"I've thought of something better than shocking him.  These Western
men are not easily shocked. They see all kinds out there. What I
suggest would be a better joke, and give us all a chance to enjoy
the sport. Suppose, Lottie, you assume to be the good and pious
one of our party, and in this character form his acquaintance. He
will soon be talking religion to you, and like enough, making love
and wanting you to go with him as a missionary to the Cannibal
Islands."

"If you go, O that I were king of them!" broke in De Forrest.

"You mean, you would have Lottie for dinner, I  suppose," continued
Miss Marchmont. "She would be served up properly as a tart."

"No," he retorted, "as sauce piquante. She could make a long life
a highly seasoned feast."

"You evidently are an Epicurean philosopher; all your thoughts seem
to run on eating," said Lottie, sharply.

"But what say you to my suggestion?" asked Addie Marchmont. "I think
it would be one of the best practical jokes I ever knew. The very
thought of such an incorrigible  witch as you palming yourself off
as a demure Puritan maiden is the climax of comical absurdity."

Even Lottie joined heartily in the general laugh at her expense,
and the preposterous imposition she was asked to attempt, but
said dubiously: "I fear I could not act successfully  the role of
Puritan maiden, when I have always been in reality just the opposite.
And yet it would be grand sport to make the attempt, and a decided
novelty. But surely your cousin cannot be so verdant but that he
would soon see through our mischief and detect the fraud."

"Well," replied Addie, "Frank, as I remember him, is a singularly
unsuspicious mortal. Even as a boy his head was always in the
clouds. He has not seen much society save that of his mother and
an old-maid sister. Moreover, he is so dreadfully pious, and life
with him such a solemn thing, that unless we are very bungling he
will not even imagine such frivolity, as he would call it, until
the truth is forced upon him. Then there will be a scene. You will
shock him then, Lottie, to your heart's content. He will probably
tell you that he is dumbfounded, and that he would not believe that
a young woman in this Christian land could trifle with such solemn
realities,--that is, himself and his feelings."

"But I don't think it would be quite right," protested Bel, feebly.

Mr. Harcourt lifted his eyebrows.

"Nonsense! Suppose it is not," said Lottie, impatiently.

"But, Addie," persisted Bel, "he will be your guest."

"No he won't. He's mother's guest, and I feel like punishing them
both."

"Very well," said Lottie, lightly; "if you have no scruples,  I
have none. It will be capital sport, and will do him good. It would
be an excellent thing for his whole  theological seminary if they
could have a thorough shaking up by the wicked world, which to him,
in this matter, I shall represent. They would then know what they
were preaching  about. What do you say, Julian?"

"When did I ever disagree with you?" he replied,  gallantly. "But
in this case I really think we owe Miss Addie a vote of thanks for
having hit upon a joke that may enliven the greater part of our
visit. This embryo parson seems a sort of a scriptural character;
and why should he not blindly, like Samson, make sport for us all?"

"I fear you do not understand your own scriptural  allusion,"
sneered Bel. "Like Samson, he may also pull  everything down about
our ears in a most uncomfortable manner."

"I hope you won't spoil everything by telling him or mother," said
Addie, petulantly.

"Oh, no! Since you are determined upon it, I will look on and see
the fun, if there is any. But, bah! He will find you all out in
a day. As for Lottie palming herself off as a goodish young woman
to whom any sane man would talk religion,--the very thought is
preposterous!"

"Don't be too confident, Miss Bel," said Lottie, put upon her mettle.
"If you all will only sustain me and not awaken his suspicions with
your by-play and giggling, I will deceive the ingenuous youth in
a way that will surprise you as well as him. Good acting must have
proper support.  This is something new,--out of the rut; and I am
bound to make it a brilliant jest that we can laugh over all our
lives.  So remember, Julian, you will disconcert me at your peril."

"No fears of me. So long as your jest remains a jest, I will be
the last one to spoil the sport."

With a chime of laughter that echoed to the attic of the old mansion,
Lottie exclaimed, "The idea that I could ever become in earnest!"

"But the young clergyman may become dead in earnest," said Bel, who
seemed the embodiment of a troublesome but weak conscience. "You
know well, Mr. De Forrest, that Lottie's blandishments may be fatal
to his peace."

"That is his affair," replied the confident youth, with a careless
shrug.

Having arranged the details of the plot and been emphatically
cautioned by Lottie, they awaited their victim.






CHAPTER II.

THE VICTIM.





Frank Hemstead was expected on the evening train from the north,
so the conspirators would not have long to wait. To pass the brief
intervening time Lottie went to the piano and gave them some music
like herself, brilliant, dashing, off-hand, but devoid of sentiment
and feeling.  Then she sprang up and began playing the maddest
pranks on languid Bel, and with Addie was soon engaged in a romp
with De Forrest and Harcourt, that would have amazed the most
festive Puritan that ever schooled or masked a frolicsome nature
under the sombre deportment required. The young men took their cue
from the ladies, and elegance and propriety were driven away in
shreds before the gale of their wild spirits. Poor Bel, buffeted
and helpless, half-enjoying, half-frightened, protested, cried,
and laughed at the tempest around her.

"I mean," said Lottie, panting after a desperate chase among the
furniture, "to have one more spree, like the topers before they
reform."

Though these velvety creatures with their habits of grace and elegance
could romp without roughness, and glide where others would tear
around, they could not keep their revel so quiet but that hurrying
steps were heard. Bel warned them, and, before Mrs. Marchmont could
enter, Lottie was playing a waltz, and the others appeared as if
they had been dancing. The lady of precedent smiled, whereas if
she had come a moment earlier she would have been horrified.

But the glow from the hearth, uncertain enough for their innocent
deeds of darkness, had now to fade before the chandelier, and Mrs.
Marchmont, somewhat surprised at the rumpled plumage of the young
ladies, and the fact that Mr.  De Forrest's neck-tie was awry,
suggested that they retire and prepare for supper, whereat they
retreated in literal  disorder. But without the door their old
frenzy seized them, and they nearly ran over the dilatory Bel upon
the stairs.  With sallies of nonsense, smothered laughter, a breezy
rustle of garments, and the rush of swift motion, they seemed to
die away in the upper halls like a summer gust. To Mrs.  Marchmont
their departure had seemed like a suppressed whirlwind.

"The young people of my day were more decorous," soliloquized the
lady, complacently. "But then the De Forrests have French blood in
them, and what else could you expect? It's he that sets them off."

The sound of approaching sleigh-bells hastened the young people's
toilets, and when they descended the stairs, this time like
a funeral procession, a tall figure, with one side that had been
to the windward well sifted over with snow, was just entering the
hall.

Mrs. Marchmont welcomed him with as much warmth as she ever permitted
herself to show. She was a good and kind lady at heart, only she
insisted upon covering the natural bloom and beauty of her nature
with the artificial enamel of mannerism and conventionality. During
the  unwrapping process the young people stood in the background,
but Lottie watched the emergence from overcoat and  muffler of the
predestined victim of her wiles with more than ordinary curiosity.

The first thing that impressed her was his unusual height, and
the next a certain awkwardness and angularity. When he came to
be formally presented, his diffidence and lack of ease were quite
marked. Bel greeted him with a distant inclination of her head,
De Forrest also vouchsafed merely one of his slightest bows, while
Harcourt stood so far away that he was scarcely introduced at
all; but Lottie went demurely forward and put her warm hand in his
great cold one, and said, looking up shyly, "I think we are sort
of cousins, are we not?"

He blushed to the roots of his hair and stammered that he hoped
so.

Indeed, this exquisite vision appearing from the shadows of the
hall, and claiming kinship, might have disconcerted a polished
society man; and the conspirators retired into the gloom to hide
their merriment.

As the stranger, in his bashful confusion, did not seem to know
for the moment what to do with her hand, and was inclined to keep
it, for in fact it was warming, or, rather, electrifying him, she
withdrew it, exclaiming, "How cold you are! You must come with me
to the fire at once."

He followed her with a rather bewildered expression, but his large
gray eyes were full of gratitude for her supposed kindness, even
if his unready tongue was slow in making graceful acknowledgment.

"Supper will be ready in a few moments, Frank," said his aunt,
approaching them and rather wondering at Lottie's friendliness.
"Perhaps you had better go at once to your room and prepare. You
will find it warm," and she glanced significantly at his rumpled
hair and general appearance of disorder, the natural results of a
long journey.

He started abruptly, blushed as if conscious of having forgotten
something, and timidly said to Lottie, "Will you excuse me?"

"Yes," she replied sweetly, "for a little while."

He again blushed deeply and for a second indulged in a shy glance
of curiosity at the "cousin" who spoke so kindly.  Then, as if
guilty of an impropriety, he seized a huge carpet-bag  as if it
were a lady's reticule. But remembering that her eyes were upon
him, he tried to cross the hall and mount the stairs with dignity.
The great leathern bag did not  conduce to this, and he succeeded
in appearing awkward in the extreme, and had a vague, uncomfortable
impression that such was the case.

Mrs. Marchmont having disappeared into the dining-room, the young
people went off into silent convulsions of laughter, in which even
Bel joined, though she said she knew it was wrong.

"He is just the one of all the world on whom to play such a joke,"
said Lottie, pirouetting into the parlor.

"It was capital!" chimed in De Forrest. "Lottie, you would make a
star actress."

"He has an intelligent eye," continued she, a little more thoughtfully.
"He may be able to see more than we think.  I insist that you all
be very careful. Aunt will suspect something, if he doesn't, and
may put him on his guard."

Mr. Hemstead soon returned, for it was plain that his toilets were
exceedingly simple. The elegance wanting in his manners was still
more clearly absent from his dress.  The material was good, but
had evidently been put together by a country tailor, who limped a
long way behind the latest mode. What was worse, his garments were
scarcely ample enough for his stalwart form. Altogether he made in
some externals a marked contrast to the city exquisite, who rather
enjoyed standing beside him that this contrast might be seen.

To Lottie he appeared excessively comical as he stalked in and around,
trying vainly to appear at ease. And yet the thought occurred to
her, "If he only knew what to do with his colossal proportions--knew
how to manage them--he would make an imposing-looking man." And when
De Forrest posed beside him just before they went out to tea, even
this thought flashed across her, "Julian, seems like an elegant
manikin beside a man." If De Forrest had only known it, the game
of contrasts was not wholly in his favor.

But poor Mr. Hemstead came to grief on his way to the supper-room.
Miss Marchmont tried to disguise her diminutive  stature by a long
trailing dress. Upon this he placed his by no means delicate foot,
as she was sweeping out with Mr. Harcourt. There was an ominous
sound of parting stitches, and an abrupt period in the young lady's
graceful progress. In his eager haste to remedy his awkwardness,
he bumped up against Mr. Dimmerly, who was advancing to speak to
him, with a force that nearly overthrew that dapper gentleman, and
rendered his greeting rather peculiar.  Hemstead felt, to his intense
annoyance, that the young people were at the point of exploding
with merriment at his expense, and was in a state of indignation
at himself and them. His aunt and Mr. Dimmerly, who soon recovered
himself, were endeavoring to look serenely unconscious, with but
partial success. All seemed to feel as if they were over a mine
of discourteous laughter. The unfortunate object looked nervously
around for the beautiful "cousin," and noted with a sigh of relief
that she had disappeared.

"I hope she did not see my meeting with uncle," he thought. "I
was always a gawk in society, and to-night seem possessed with the
very genius of awkwardness. She is the only one who has shown me
any real kindness, and I don't want her to think of me only as a
blundering, tongue-tied fool."

He would not have been re-assured had he known that Lottie, having
seen all, had darted back into the parlor and was leaning against
the piano, a quivering, and for the  moment a helpless subject of
suppressed mirth. Mr. Dimmerly was always a rather comical object
to her, and his flying arms and spectacles, as he tried to recover
himself from the rude shock of his nephew's burly form, made a
scene in which absurdity, which is said to be the chief cause of
laughter, was pre-eminent.

But, the paroxysm passing, she followed them and took a seat
opposite her victim, with a demure sweetness and repose of manner
well-nigh fatal to the conspirators.

As Mr. Hemstead was regarded as a clergyman, though not quite through
with his studies, his aunt looked to him for the saying of grace.
It was a trying ordeal for the young fellow under the circumstances.
He shot a quick glance at Lottie, which she returned with a look of
serious expectation,  then dropped her eyes and veiled a different
expression under the long lashes. But he was sorely embarrassed,
and stammered out he scarcely knew what. A suppressed titter from
Addie Marchmont and the young men was the only response he heard,
and it was not re-assuring. He heartily wished himself back in
Michigan, but was comforted by seeing Lottie looking gravely and
reproachfully at the irreverent gigglers.

"She is a good Christian girl," he thought, "and while the others
ridicule my wretched embarrassment, she sympathizes."

Hemstead was himself as open as the day and equally unsuspicious
of others. He believed just what he saw, and saw only what was
clearly apparent. Therefore Lottie, by tolerably fair acting, would
have no difficulty in deceiving him, and she was proving herself
equal to very skilful feigning.  Indeed she was one who could do
anything fairly that she heartily attempted.

A moment after "grace" Harcourt made a poor witticism,  at which
the majority laughed with an immoderateness quite disproportionate.
Mrs. Marchmont and her brother joined in the mirth, though evidently
vexed with themselves that they did. Even Hemstead saw that Harcourt's
remark was but the transparent excuse for the inevitable laugh at
his expense. Lottie looked around with an expression of mingled
surprise and displeasure, which nearly convulsed those in the
secret. But her aunt and uncle felt themselves justly rebuked, while
wondering greatly at Lottie's unwonted virtue. But there are times
when to laugh is a dreadful necessity, whatever be the consequences.

"Mr. Hemstead," said Lottie, gravely, beginning, as she supposed,
with the safe topic of the weather, "in journeying east have you
come to a colder or warmer climate?"

"Decidedly into a colder one," he answered, significantly.

"Indeed, that rather surprises me!"

"Well, I believe that the thermometer has marked lower with us,
but it has been said, and justly I think, that we do not feel the
cold at the West as at the East."

"No matter," she said, sweetly. "At the East, as in the West, the
cold is followed by thaws and spring."

He looked up quickly and gratefully, but only remarked, "It's a
change we all welcome."

"Not I, for one," said Mr. Harcourt. "Give me a clear, steady
cold. Thaws and spring are synonymous with the sloppy season or
sentimental stage."

"I, too, think steady cold is better in the season of it," remarked
Mr. Dimmerly, sententiously.

"But how about it out of season, uncle?" asked Lottie.

"Your hint, perhaps, is seasonable, Lottie," quietly  remarked her
aunt, though with somewhat heightened color.  "I trust we shall
keep the steady cold out of doors, and that ALL our guests will
find only summer warmth within."

"Really, auntie, you put me in quite a melting mood."

"No need of that, Lottie, for you are the month of June all the
year round," said her aunt.

"The month of April, rather," suggested Bel.

"I should say July or August," added Mr. Dimmerly, laughing.

"Would you not say November?" asked Lottie of Mr.  Hemstead.

"Yes, I think so," he replied, with a blush, "for  Thanksgiving
comes in that month."

There was a general laugh, and Mr. Dimmerly chuckled, "Very good,
you are getting even, Frank."

"I hardly understand your compliment, if it is one," said Lottie,
demurely. "Is it because you are so fond of sermons or dinners that
Thanksgiving glorifies the dreary month of November?"

"Neither a sermon nor a dinner is always a just cause for Thanksgiving,"
he replied, with a pleasant light in his gray eyes.

"Then where is the force of your allusion?" she said, with a face
innocently blank.

"Well," replied he, hesitatingly, and blushing deeply, "perhaps my
thought was that you might be an occasion for Thanksgiving if both
sermon and dinner were wanting."

Again there was a general laugh, but his aunt said, "Frank, Frank,
have you learned to flatter?"

Lottie shot a quick glance of pleased surprise at him, and was
much amused at his evident confusion and flaming cheeks. To be sure
his words were part of the old  complimentary tune that she knew
by heart, but his offering was like a flower that had upon it the
morning dew. She recognized  his grateful effort to repay her for
supposed kindness, and saw that, though ill at ease in society, he
was not a fool.

"Would it not be better to wait till in possession before keeping
a Thanksgiving?" said De Forrest, satirically.

"Not necessarily," retorted Hemstead, quickly, for the remark was
like the light touch of a spur. "I was grateful for the opportunity
of seeing a fine picture at Cleveland, on my way here, that I never
expect to own."

Lottie smiled. The victim was not helpless. But she turned, and
with a spice of coquetry said, "Still I think you are right, Mr.
De Forrest."

Then she noted that Mr. Hemstead's eyes were dancing with mirth at
her hint to one who was evidently anxious to keep "Thanksgiving"
over her any month in the year.

"I'm sure I am," remarked De Forrest. "I could never be satisfied
to admire at a distance. I could not join in a prayer I once heard,
'Lord, we thank thee for this and all other worlds.'"

"Could you?" asked Lottie of Hemstead.

"Why not?"

"That is no answer."

Hemstead was growing more at ease, and when he only had to use his
brains was not half so much at a loss as when he must also manage
his hands and feet, and he replied laughingly: "Well, not to put too
fine a point upon it, this world is quite useful to me at present.
I should be sorry to have it vanish and find myself whirling in
space, if I am a rather large body. But as I am soon to get through
with this world, though never through with life, I may have a chance
to enjoy a good many other worlds--perhaps all of them--before
eternity is over, and so be grateful that they exist and are in
waiting."

"Good heavens!" exclaimed Lottie. "What a traveller you propose to
be. I should be satisfied with a trip to Europe."

"To Paris, you mean," said Bel.

"Yes," replied Mr. Hemstead, "until the trip was over."

"Then I trust she will be content with New York,"  insinuated De
Forrest; "for Mr. Hemstead speaks as if the stars were created for
his especial benefit."

"You are enjoying some honey, Mr. De Forrest?" said Hemstead,
quietly.

"Yes."

"Did the flowers grow and the bees gather for your especial benefit?"

"I admit I'm answered."

"But," said sceptical Mr. Harcourt, "when you've got through with
this world how do you know but that you will drop off into space?"

"Come," said Addie, rising from the table, "I protest against a
sermon before Sunday."

They now returned to the parlor, Hemstead making the transition in
safety, but with no little trepidation.






CHAPTER III.

PUZZLED AND INTERESTED.





On the way to the parlor Lottie hovered near Mr.  Hemstead. Unlike
Micawber, she was not one to wait, but purposed that something
SHOULD "turn up." The two other young ladies, and Harcourt and De
Forrest, sat down to a game of whist. In pursuance of instructions
from Lottie, De Forrest was not to be over-attentive, though it was
evident that he would give more thought to her than to his game.
Her demure mischief amused him vastly, and, knowing  what she was,
the novelty of her Puritan style had a double fascination. Making
personal enjoyment the object of his life, he felicitated himself
on soon possessing the beautiful and piquant creature, who, when she
came to  devote herself to him, would spice his days with endless
variety.  The thought that this high-spirited, positive, strong-minded
American girl might crave better and more important work than that
of an Eastern houri or a Queen Scheherezade, never occurred to
him. He blundered, with many other men, in supposing that, if once
married, the wayward belle would become subservient to his tastes
and modes as a matter of course. In his matrimonial creed all his
difficulty consisted in getting the noose finally around the fair
one's neck: this accomplished, she would become a ministering
captive.  Many a one has had a rude awakening from this dream.

Although from Addie Marchmont's description he believed that he
had little cause to fear a rival in Hemstead, still he awaited his
coming with a trace of anxiety. But when the seemingly overgrown,
awkward student stepped upon the scene, all his fears vanished. The
fastidious Lottie, whose eye had grown so nice and critical that
she could refuse the suit of many who from their wealth and position
thought it impossible  to sue in vain, could never look upon this
Western giant in a way other than she proposed,--the ridiculous
subject of a practical joke. True, he had proved himself no fool
in their table-talk, but mere intellectuality and moral excellence
counted for little in De Forrest's estimation when not  combined
with wealth and external elegance. The thought that the "giant"
might have a heart, and that Lottie's clever seeming might win it,
and the consequent mortification and suffering, did not occasion
a moment's care. Unconsciously De Forrest belonged to that lordly
class which has furnished our Neros, Napoleons, and tyrants of
less degree, even down to Pat who beats his wife. These, from their
throne of selfishness, view the pain and troubles of others with
perfect unconcern. Therefore, believing that his personal interests
were not endangered by so unpromising a man as Hemstead, even
Lottie did not look forward to the carrying out of the practical
joke with more zest than he. If the unsuspicious victim could only
be inveigled into something like love, its awkward display might
become comical in the extreme.  Therefore, he gave but careless
heed to his game, and keen glances to Lottie's side-play. But as
the other conspirators were acting in much the same manner he was
able to hold his own.

Hemstead looked grave, as cards were brought out, but without remark
he sat down with his aunt at a table on the opposite side of the
hearth. Lottie perched on a chair a little back of them, so that
while she saw their side faces they must turn somewhat to see her.
When they did so she was quietly stitching at her fancy-work, but
the rest of the time was telegraphing with her brilliant eyes all
sorts of funny messages to the party opposite, so that they were
in a state of perpetual giggle, not in keeping with whist.

Mr. Dimmerly soon bustled in, and, looking wistfully at the game
in progress, was about to propose that they form one likewise at
their table, for an evening without cards was to him a mild form
of purgatory. But Lottie anticipated him. Giving a signal to the
others and drawing down her face to portentous length, she said to
Hemstead, "I fear you do not approve of cards."

"You are correct, Miss Marsden," he replied, stiffly.

As he turned away, she glanced at the card-players with a look of
horror, as if they were committing sacrilege, and Harcourt had to
improvise another poor joke to account for their increasing merriment.

But Mr. Dimmerly looked at his nephew in dismay and some irritation.
"What under heaven can I now do, this long evening," he thought,
"but gape and talk theology?"

But Lottie, in the purpose to draw out and quiz her victim,
continued: "Really, Mr. Hemstead, you surprise me. Cards are the
staple amusement of a quiet evening in New York.  I fear I have
been doing wrong all my life without knowing it."

"If you did not know you were wrong, you were not very guilty," he
replied, smiling.

"Yes, but now I do know, or at least from one who will be an
authority on such matters--pardon me--who is one now, I am assured
that this old custom is wrong. In questions  of right and wrong,
I suppose a minister should guide."

"No, Miss Marsden, that is not Protestantism. Your conscience,
instructed by the Bible, should guide."

"But I see no more harm in whist than in a sleigh-ride."

"Perhaps your conscience needs instruction."

"O, certainly, that is it! Please instruct it."

He turned quickly, but saw a face serious enough for an anxious
seat in an old-time revival.

"Yes," said Mr. Dimmerly, testily. "My conscience needs instruction
also. What harm is there in a quiet game of whist?"

"Well, I do not know that there is anything wrong in a 'quiet game
of cards,' per se" commenced Hemstead, didactically.

"'Per' who?" asked Lottie, innocently.

Just then the party at the other table seemed to explode, but they
made it appear as if the cause came from themselves.

"Yes, yes, nephew, speak English. You may find some reasons in
Latin, but none in English, the only language of sound sense."

"Well," resumed Hemstead, somewhat confused, "I do not know that
a quiet game such as you would play here would be wrong in itself.
But the associations of the game are bad, and your example might
be injurious."

"The associations bad!" said Lottie, lifting her eyebrows.  "Cards
are associated in my mind with father, mother, and quiet home
evenings."

"I have chiefly seen them played by rough characters, and in
questionable places," he replied quickly.

"I'm sorry you visit such places," she replied in a tone of rebuke.

Even Mr. Dimmerly and his sister laughed at this remark, as coming
from Lottie, while the others were almost  convulsed. Bel managed
to gasp out, as a blind, "Mr.  Harcourt, if you don't behave yourself
and play fair, I'll throw down my hand."

But straightforward Hemstead increased difficulties by saying, a
little stiffly, "I hope, Miss Marsden, that you do not suppose that
one of my calling would frequent places of improper resort."

"No, indeed," she replied quickly, "and therefore I was the more
surprised when you spoke of witnessing something in 'questionable
places.'"

He turned to her with a look in which perplexity and annoyance
were mingled, and said hastily: "It is different with a man from a
lady. A man is more out in the world, and, no matter how careful,
cannot help catching glimpses of the evil substratum of society.
One cannot help passing through a smoking-car occasionally, or--"

"Good heavens!" exclaimed Lottie, as if startled. "Is a smoking-car
a 'questionable place'? Mr. De Forrest," she continued sharply,
"did you not spend half an hour in the smoking-car coming up?"

"Yes," he replied faintly.

"You surprise me, sir," she said severely. "Mr. Hemstead  declares
it is a 'questionable place.' I hope hereafter you will have more
regard for your reputation."

"Please do not mistake me," said Hemstead, with  increasing annoyance;
"I did not mean to assert any moral qualities of smoking-cars, though
with then filth and fumes there would be no question in your mind
about them whatever,  Miss Marsden. What I meant to say was, that
in such places as smoking-cars, hotel lobbies, and through the
open doors of saloons, are caught glimpses of a life which we all
should unite in condemning and loathing; and what I have seen has
always led me to connect cards with just that kind of life. Moreover,
gambling--that fearful and destructive vice--is almost inseparable
from cards."

"How experiences differ!" said Lottie, reflectively. "I have had
but few glimpses of the life you describe so graphically.  With
the bits of pasteboard that you have seen chiefly in coarse, grimy
hands, I associate our cosey sitting-room at home, with its glowing
grate and 'moon-light lamp,' as we call it, for father's eyes are
weak. Even now," she continued, assuming the look of a rapt and
beautiful sibyl, that was entrancing to Hemstead as well as De
Forrest--"even now I see papa and mamma and old-fashioned Auntie
Jane, and poor invalid Jennie, all gathered at home in our sacred
little snuggery where father permits no visitors to come."

The look she had assumed became genuine, and her eyes suddenly
moistened as the scene called up became real and present to her.
With all her faults she had a warm heart, and loved her kindred
sincerely.

But this touch of truth and feeling served her mischievous  purpose
better than she thought, for it convinced the honest-minded Hemstead
that she was just what she seemed, and his sympathy went out to
her at once as a well-meaning, true-hearted girl.

He was a little taken aback, however, when Lottie, ashamed of her
feeling, said brusquely, "As to gambling with cards, we no more
thought of it than sending to a corner  grocery for a bottle of
whiskey, and taking from it a drink all around between the games."

"O Lottie!" laughed her aunt, "what an absurd picture you suggest!
The idea of your stately mother taking a drink from a bottle of
whiskey!"

"It is no more strange to me," persisted Lottie, gravely, "than
Mr. Hemstead's associations. Of course I know that bad and vulgar
people play cards, but they also drive horses and walk the streets,
and do other things which it is perfectly proper for us to do."

"I admit, Miss Marsden, that education and custom make a great
difference. I have always been taught to look upon cards with great
abhorrence. What may be right for you would be wrong for me."

"No," said positive Lottie, "that will not satisfy me. A thing is
either right or wrong. If you can prove to me that a quiet game of
cards is wrong, I won't play any more--at least I ought not," she
added hastily. "Because some vulgar  and fast people gamble with
them is nothing. You will take a sleigh-ride with us to-morrow,
and yet loud jockeys bet and gamble over horses half the year."

Hemstead sprang up. His ungainliness disappeared, as was ever the
case when he forgot himself in excitement.

"Miss Marsden," he said, "what you say sounds plausible,  but years
ago I saw the mangled corpse of a young suicide. He was an adept
at cards, and for aught I know had learned the game as your brother
might, at home. But away among strangers at the West that knowledge
proved fatal. He was inveigled into playing by some gamblers, staked
all his own money, then that committed to his trust.  Having lost
everything but life, he threw that also down the abyss. He might
have been living to-day if he had known as little about cards as
I do."

His manner was so earnest, the picture called up so sad and tragic,
that even Lottie's red cheek paled a little, and the gigglers
became quiet. She only said, "He was very weak and foolish. I can't
understand such people."

"But the world is largely made up of the weak and foolish,  who
need safeguards rather than temptations. And history would seem
to prove that even the wisest and best are at times 'weak and
foolish.' I think the knowledge of card-playing can result in no
harm to you, shielded as you will be, but it might to your brother.
Miss Marsden," asked he, abruptly, "do you know how many professional
gamblers there are in the world?"

"No."

"I do not remember the estimated number accurately, but it is very
large. They often revel in wealth, but they do not make it out of
each other. It is from the unwary, the 'weak and foolish' who think
they can win money by playing  a fair game. They are permitted to
win just enough to turn their heads, and then are robbed. Remorse,
despair, and suicide too often follow. Cards are the usual means
employed in these great wrongs. I should be sorry to see a young
brother of mine, who was soon to face the temptations  of the world,
go away with a knowledge that has been the ruin of so many."

This was bringing the question home to Lottie in a way that she
did not expect. Her heedless, wilful, impulsive brother, the dear
torment of her life, was just the one an artful knave could mislead.
For a moment or two she sat silent and thoughtful. All awaited her
answer save Mr.  Dimmerly, who, without his whist, had dropped off
into a doze, as was his wont. Then her decided character asserted
itself, and she spoke sincerely for the moment.

"I do not believe in the safety of ignorance. If a young man is weak
and bad enough to gamble, he will do it with something else, if not
cards. From what I hear, men bet and gamble with all uncertainties.
The most innocent things are carried to vulgar and wicked excess.
You can't shield one from without if lacking the will and power to
say, No! I think it will be safer and wiser in the end, if a thing
is right fer se, as you say, to do it, and if wrong not to do it.
To me, a game of cards is no more than a game of checkers, or a
stroll in a garden."

In his eagerness to reply, Hemstead took a step forward and trod
upon, not a lady's dress this time, but the tail of Mrs. Marchmont's
pet dog. As may be imagined, his tread was not fairy-like, and there
was a yelp that awoke the echoes. Mr. Dimmerly started out of his
sleep, with a snort like the blast of a ram's hom before Jericho,
and, pushing his gold spectacles to the top of his bald head, stared
in bewilderment at the forms convulsed with merriment around him.

Even Hemstead joined in the laugh, though inwardly  inclined to
anathematize his big feet. Lottie retreated from further discussion
by saying:

"I have heard that theologians were inclined to be dogmatic  in
controversy, and I fear that you are no exception, Mr. Hemstead.
So, since I have had the last word, with your permission, I retire
'of the same opinion still.'"

"I submit," he rejoined, good-naturedly. "In any case my answer
would have been CURTAILED"

"Ha, ha!" chimed out Lottie's laugh. "That is better than your
logic."

"Frank! that you should call this dear little creature a cur!" said
Mrs. Marchmont, comforting her still whining pet.

"What DISCOURTESY!" said Lottie.

"What is the matter with you all?" asked Mr. Dimmerly, rising. "From
talking Latin you have got on something that I understand as well
as Choctaw. Lottie, I hope you are not argued out of one of our
best old English customs.  I have inherited whist from a dozen
generations. So, nephew, with your leave or your frown, I must have
my game."

"I cannot say, uncle, that Mr. Hemstead has argued very much, but
two very painful TALES have been presented in an imPRESSIVE manner.
You see how moved auntie and Fido are still over one of them. But
come, Mr. Hemstead, you have discharged your duty. If they play
whist all night and commit suicide in the morning, your skirts are
clear. Shake off the dust of your feet at them, and take a promenade
in the hall with me. Cousin Julian" (with emphasis on the word
cousin), "your conscience is as tough and elastic as Mr. Hemstead's
is tender. You haunt smoking-cars and other questionable places;
so, without serious moral harm, you can gratify uncle."

Mrs. Marchmont, who had listened with polite weariness to the latter
part of the discussion, now took part in the game as quietly as
she would pour tea at the head of the table. The aunt and nephew
had lived in such different atmospheres that they could scarcely
understand each other, and both harbored thoughts that were hardly
charitable, as is usually the case in regard to those actions which
have no moral qualities in themselves, and after all must be decided
by each one's conscience. To Mrs. Marchmont, with her antecedents,
a game of whist was one of the most innocent ants of her life.

But Hemstead was too well pleased with Lottie's arrangement  to
grieve deeply over what, to his conscience, was wrong, and soon
forgot uncle, aunt, and cousin, and even the unlucky lap-dog, whose
dismal howl had so discomfited him a moment before. Just such a
luminary as Lottie Marsden  had never appeared above his horizon, and
her orbit seemed so eccentric that as yet he could not calculate
it; but this element of uncertainty made observation all the
more interesting. The wide old hall, without the embarrassment  of
observant eyes, was just the place to learn something  more definite
of one who thus far had dazzled and puzzled, while she gained his
strong interest. True, Addie and Mr. Harcourt were walking before
them, but seemed so absorbed in each other as not to notice them.
He felt a curious thrill when a little hand lighted, like a
snow-flake, upon his arm, but soon increased its pressure with a
sort of cousinly confidence. He looked inquiringly into the face
turned up to him as they passed under the lamp, and thought, "In
its guileless beauty it reminds me of the clear mountain lakes that
I have seen in this region."

His figure was true, but not as he understood it; for Lottie's  face,
like the lake, would then reflect anything that happened upon the
margin of her thoughts, while her heart remained hidden. He thought he
saw herself, but in truth only false and vanishing images. Still,
like the mirroring water, her skilful feigning could make the
images seem very real. Hemstead, with his boundless faith in woman,
believed all he saw, and hoped still more.






CHAPTER IV.

A LITTLE PAGAN.





The joke had now taken a phase that De Forrest did not relish. While
Lottie's by-play was present, and she was telegraphing to him with
her brilliant eyes, it was excellent. But to sit with his back to
the door leading into the hall, vis-a-vis to Mr. Dimmerly's puckered
face, and give close attention to the game, was a trying ordeal to
one who only consulted his own pleasure. And yet he feared he would
offend Lottie, did he not remain at his post. She was a despotic
little sovereign, and he felt that he must use all address until she
was safely brought to the matrimonial altar. He comforted himself,
however, with the thought that she was generous, and when he acted
the role of martyr she usually rewarded him with a greater show of
kindness, and no got through an hour with indifferent grace.

But this purgatorial hour to him was keenly enjoyed by Lottie and
Hemstead, though by each for different reasons.

"I fear you think me a giddy, wayward girl," said Lottie gently.

"In frankness, I hardly know what to think," replied Hemstead.

"Frank is your name, is it not?"

"Yes."

"It seems appropriate. I hope you won't judge me too harshly."

"The danger is the other way, I fear," he said laughing.

"Well, one of your profession ought to be charitable.  But I might
naturally expect to be disapproved of by one so good and wise as
you are."

"Why do you think me 'good and wise'?"

"Because you are a minister, if for no other reason."

"I am also a man."

"Yes," she said innocently. "You are quite grown up."

He looked at her quickly; her demure face puzzled him, and he said,
"I fear you think I am overgrown."

"And I fear you don't care what I think. Men of your profession
are superior to the world."

"Really, I shall think you are sarcastic, if you talk in that way
any more." But she looked so serious that he half believed she was
in earnest.

"Are ministers like other men?" she asked, with a spice of genuine
curiosity in her question. The venerable pastor of the church which
she attended in New York had not seemed to belong to the same race
as herself. His hair was so white, his face so bloodless, his life
so saintly, and his sermons so utterly beyond her, that he appeared
as dim and unearthly as one of the Christian Fathers. A young
theologian  on the way to that same ghostly state was an object
of piquant interest. She had never had a flirtation with a man of
this character, therefore there was all the zest of novelty.  Had
she been less fearless, she would have shrunk from it, however, with
something of the superstitious dread that many have of jesting in
a church, or a graveyard. But there was a trace of hardihood in her
present course that just took her fancy. From lack of familiarity
with the class, she had a vague impression that ministers differed
widely from other men, and to bring one down out of the clouds as a
fluttering captive at her feet would be a triumph indeed. A little
awe mingled with her curiosity as she sought to penetrate the
scholastic and saintly atmosphere in which she supposed even an
embryo clergyman dwelt. She hardly knew what to say when, in reply
to her question, "Are ministers like other men?" he asked, "Why
not?"

"That is hardly a fair way to answer."

"You do not find me a mysterious being."

"I find you very different from other young men of my acquaintance.
What to me is a matter of course is dreadful to you. Then you ministers
have such strange theological ways of dividing the world up into
saints and sinners, and you coolly predict such awful things for
the sinners (though I confess the sinners take it quite as coolly).
The whole thing seems professional rather than true."

The tone of deep sadness in which the young man next spoke caused
her to look at him with a little surprise.

"I do not wonder that this mutual coolness perplexes you. If we
believe the Bible, it is the strangest mystery in existence."

"You may well put that in. Do the generality of people believe the
Bible? But as I was saying, from the very nature of your calling
you come to live far away from us. Our old minister knows more about
dead people than living. He knows all about the Jews and Greeks who
lived eighteen centuries ago, but next to nothing of the young of
his own church. My motives and temptations would be worse than.
Sanscrit to him,--harder to understand than the unsolved problems
of mathematics. What does such a man know about the life of a young
lady in society? That which influences me would seem less than
nothing to him."

"I think you misjudge your pastor. If you became well acquainted
with him, you might find a heart overflowing with sympathy."

"I can no more get acquainted with him than if he dwelt on Mount
Olympus. If I were only a doctrine, he might study me up and know
something about me. But there is so much flesh and blood about me
that I fear I shall always be distasteful to ministers."

"I assure you, Miss Marsden, I find you more interesting than some
doctrines."

"But you are young. You are on a vacation, and can for a time descend
to trifles, but you will grow like the rest. As it is, you speak
very guardedly, and intimate that I would be as nothing compared
with other doctrines."

"What is a doctrine, Miss Marsden?"

"O, bless me, I don't know exactly; a sort of abstract summing up
of either our qualities or God's qualities. The only doctrine I
even half understand is that of 'total depravity,' and I sometimes
fear it's true."

"I think you are a great deal more interesting than the 'doctrine
of total depravity,'" said Hemstead, laughing.

"Perhaps you will come to think I am synonymous with it."

"No fear. I have seen too much of you for that already."

"What redeeming features have you seen?"

He looked at her earnestly for a moment, and she  sustained his
gaze with an expression of such innocent  sweetness that he said, a
little impulsively, "All your features redeem you from that charge."

"O, fie!" she exclaimed, "a pun and flattery in one breath!"

"I do not mean to flatter. Although in some respects you puzzle me,
I am very clear and positive as to my feeling of gratitude. While
my aunt feels kindly toward me, she is formal. It seemed to me when
I came out of the cold of the wintry night I found within a more
chilling coldness.  But when you gave me your warm hand and claimed
something like kindred, I was grateful for that which does not always
accompany kindred,--genuine kindness. This feeling  was greatly
increased when instead of making my diffidence  and awkwardness
a theme of ridicule, you evinced a delicate sympathy, and with
graceful tact suggested a better courtesy to others. Do you think
then, that, after this glimpse down such a beautiful vista in your
nature, I can associate you with 'total depravity'? It was plain
to you, Miss Marsden, that I had seen little of society, but you
acted as if that were my misfortune, not my fault. I think the
impulse that leads one to try to shield or protect another who for
the time may be weak or defenceless is always noble."

If Lottie had shown a little before that she had a heart, she now
became painfully aware that she had a conscience, and it gave her
some severe twinges during this speech.  For a moment she wished
she deserved his commendation.  But she was not one to do things
by halves, and so,  recklessly throwing aside her qualms, she said
laughingly, "I don't think a gentleman of your inches at all an
object of pity. You are big enough to take care of yourself."

"And I mean to as far as I can. But we all need help at times. You
know a mouse once served a lion."

"Thank you. Now you have counterbalanced all your fine speeches
and compliments. 'A mouse serving a lion!' Well, roar gently if
you please."

"I'm afraid I appear to you like another animal that once donned
a lion's skin, but whose ears, alas, protruded."

"That is rather a skilful retreat; but I imagine that you think
yourself a veritable lion."

"If you insist on my being a lion, I must refer you to ancient
mythology, where one of these overrated beasts is held a crouching
captive by Diana."

"Well, that is quite a transition. First compared to a mouse, and
then to the moon. I fear that if you have not visited 'questionable
places,' you have permitted your mind to dwell on the 'questionable'
myths of the past.

"O, that was in the regular order of things," he replied.  "Before
coming to the study of theology, we are put through mythology;
that is, under the guidance of reverend professors we make the
acquaintance of a set of imaginary beings who, had they veritably
lived, and in our day, would have soon found their way to the
penitentiary."

"At the door of which the 'lion' and 'Diana' would part company,
and so I should lose my gentle 'captive' and become as disconsolate
as auntie would have been had you trodden on the reverse extremity
of her pet."

"O, pardon me, but Diana was an exception to the rest."

"Better or worse?"

"Better, of course. She was a trifle cruel, though, was she not?"

"You have been proving me very tender-hearted."

"So every woman should be."

"I doubt whether you know much about us."

"I cannot imagine a being--not even an angel-more pure, unselfish,
and true than my mother; and she is a woman."

"Miss Lottie," here broke in De Forrest, "I've played whist to the
utmost limit of my conscience. You will not keep me on the rack
any longer."

"O, no, Cousin Julian," she replied, sotto voce, "only on the sofa
with our dear cousin Bel. See, she sits there alone.  Good-by," and
she swept past, with a malicious twinkle in her eyes at his blank
expression.

But Bel saw and understood the scene. With a cynical smile she
went to the piano, and commenced a brilliant waltz. Under its spell
Addie and Mr. Harcourt came whirling  up the hall, and Lottie, who
had been under restraint so long, could not resist the temptation
of letting De Forrest carry her off also.

"It's only with my cousin, you know," she whispered apologetically
to Hemstead.

He stood in the door-way for a few moments and watched her graceful
figure with a strange and growing interest Whether saint or sinner,
this being so emphatically of flesh and blood was exceedingly
fascinating. The transition from the cloister-like seclusion of his
seminary life to this suburb of the gay world was almost bewildering;
and Lottie Marsden was one to stir the thin blood and withered
heart of the coldest anchorite. The faint perfume which she seemed
to exhale like a red rosebush in June was a pleasing exchange for
the rather musty and scholastic atmosphere in which he so long
had dwelt. As she glanced by as lightly as a bird on the wing, she
occasionally beamed upon him with one of her dangerous smiles. She
then little thought or cared that his honest and unoccupied heart
was as ready to thaw and blossom into love as a violet bank facing
the south in spring. He soon had a vague consciousness that he was
not doing just the prudent thing, and therefore rejoined his aunt
and uncle. Soon after he pleaded the weariness of his journey and
retired. As he was about to mount the stairs Lottie whirled by and
whispered, "Don't think me past praying for."

The slang she used in jest came to him, with his tendencies  and
convictions, like an unconscious appeal and a divine suggestion.
He was utterly unconventional, and while readily  unbending into
mirthfulness, he regarded life as an exceedingly  serious thing.
As the eyes of artist and poet catch glimpses of beauty where to
others are only hard lines and plain surfaces, so strong religious
temperaments are quick to see providences, intimations, and leadings.

Hemstead went to his room with steps that deep thought rendered
slower and slower. He forgot his weariness, and sat down before
the fire to think of one known but a few brief hours. If there are
those who can coolly predict "awful things" of the faithless and
godless, Hemstead was not one of them. The young girl who thought
him a good subject for jest and ridicule, he regarded with profound
pity.  Her utter unconsciousness of danger had to him the elements
of deepest pathos.

While perplexed by contradictions in her manner and words, he
concluded that she was what she seemed, a girl of unusual force
of mind, frank and kindly, and full of noble impulses, but whose
religious nature was but slightly developed. He at that time would
have been shocked and indignant if he had known the truth. Her
natural tendencies  had been good. Her positive nature would never
waver weakly along the uncertain boundary of good and evil, as was
the case with Bel Parton. She was one who would be decided and
progressive in one direction or the other, but now was clearly
on the sinister side of truth and moral  loveliness. Surrounding
influences had been adverse. She had yielded to them, and they had
carried her farther astray than if she had been of a cautious and
less forceful temperament.  While therefore full of good impulses,
she was also passionate  and selfish. Much homage had made her
imperious, exacting, and had developed no small degree of vanity.
She exulted in the power and pre-eminence that beauty gave, and
often exerted the former cruelly, though it is due to her to state
that she did not realize the pain she caused.  While her own heart
slept, she could not understand the aching disquiet of others that
she toyed with. That it was good sport, high-spiced excitment, and
occupation for her restless, active mind, was all she considered.
As she would never be neutral in her moral character, so she was
one who would do much of either harm or good. Familiarity with
the insincerities of fashionable life had blurred her sense of
truthfulness in little things, and in matters of policy she could
hide her meaning or express another as well as her veteran mother.

And yet there were great possibilities of good in her  character.
She had a substratum of sound common sense; was wholesomely averse
to meanness, cowardice, and temporizing;  best of all, she was not
shallow and weak. She could appreciate noble action, and her mind
could kindle at great thoughts if presented clearly and strongly.

She could scarcely be blamed severely for being what she was, for
she had only responded to the influences that had ever surrounded
her, and been moulded by them. Her character was rapidly forming,
but not as yet fixed. Therefore  her best chance of escaping a moral
deformity as marked as her external beauty was the coming under an
entirely different class of influences.

However earthly parents may wrong their children by neglect, or
by permitting in themselves characters that  react ruinously upon
those sacredly intrusted to their training, the Divine Father seems
to give all a chance sometime in life for the achievement of the
grandest of all victories, the conquest of self. Whatever abstract
theories dreamers may evolve secluded from the world, those who observe
closely--who KNOW humanity from infancy to age--are compelled to
admit, however reluctantly, that the inner self of every heart is
tainted and poisoned by evil. The innocence of childhood is too
much like the harmlessness of the lion's whelps. However loftily and
plausibly some may assert the innate goodness and self-rectifying
power of humanity, as Tom Paine wrote against the Bible without
reading it, not having been able at the time to procure one in
infidel Paris, those who take the scientific course of getting the
facts first shake their heads despondingly. It is true that parents
discover diversities in their children. Some are sweeter-tempered
than others, and seem pointed  horizontally, if not heavenward,
in their natures. Many bid fair to stand high, measured by earthly
standards. But the approving  world can know nothing of the evil
thoughts that haunt the heart.

What mother has not been almost appalled as she has seen the face
of her still infant child inflamed with rage and the passionate
desire for revenge? The chubby hand is not always raised to caress,
but too often to strike. As mind and heart develop, darker and meaner
traits unfold with every natural grace. There is a canker-worm in
the bud, and unless it is taken out, there never can be a perfect
flower.

But Mr. and Mrs. Marsden thought of none of these things. The mother
received her estimate of life, and her duty, from current opinion
on the avenue. She complacently  felicitated herself that she kept
up with the changing mode quite as well as most women of wealth
and fashion, if not better. She managed so well that she excited
the admiration of some, and the envy of more; and so was content.
As for Mr. Marsden, what with his business, his newspaper, whist,
and an occasional evening at the club or some entertainment or public
meeting that he could not escape, his life was full and running
over. He never had time to give a thought to the fine theories about
his children, nor to the rather contradictory facts often reported
from the nursery. But as year after year he paid the enormous and
increasing bills for nurses, gouvernantes, Italian music masters,
and fashionable schools, he sincerely thought that few men did as
much for their children as he.

Of course, a lady from whom society expected so much as from Mrs.
Marsden could not give her time to her children.  In the impressible
period of infancy and early childhood,  Lottie and her brother, and
an invalid sister older than herself, had been left chiefly to the
charge of servants.  But Mrs. Marsden's conscience was at rest,
for she paid the highest prices for her French and German nurses
and governesses,  and of course "had the best," she said. Thus the
children lived in a semi-foreign atmosphere, and early caught a,
"pretty foreign accent," which their mamma delighted to exhibit in
the parlor; and at the same time they became imbued with foreign
morals, which they also put on exhibition  disagreeably often. When
through glaring faults the stylish nursery-maid was dismissed, the
obliging keeper of the intelligence office around the corner had
another foreign waif just imported, who at a slightly increased sum
was ready to undertake the care, and he might add the corruption,
of the children in the most approved style. She was at once engaged,
and to this alien the children were committed  almost wholly, while
Mrs. Marsden would tell her afternoon visitors how fortunate she
had been in obtaining a new nurse with even a "purer accent." The
probabilities were that her doubtful accent was the purest thing
about her. Sometimes, as the results of this tutelage grew more
apparent, even Mrs. Marsden had misgivings. But then her wealthiest
and most fashionable neighbors were pursuing the same course with
precisely the same results; and so she must be right.

If Lottie had been born pellucid as a drop of dew, as some claim,
she would not have remained so long, even in the nursery, and as
she stepped out farther and faster in the widening sphere of her
life, surrounding influences did not improve.

Her extreme beauty and grace, and the consequent  admiration and
flattery, developed an unusual degree of vanity, which had strengthened
with years; though now she had too much sense and refinement to
display it publicly. While generous and naturally warm-hearted,
the elements of gentleness  and patient self-denial for the sake
of others at this time could scarcely have been discovered in her
character.

Indeed this beautiful girl, nurtured in a Christian land, a regular
attendant upon church, was a pagan and belonged to a pagan family.
Not one of her household worshipped God.  Mr. and Mrs. Marsden
would have been exceedingly shocked and angered if they had been
told they were heathens.  But at the time when Paul found among
the multitudinous altars of Athens one dedicated to the "Unknown
God," there were many Grecian men and women more highly  cultivated
than these two aristocrats of to-day. But in spite of external
devoutness at church, it could easily be shown that to this girl's
parents the God of the Bible was as "unknown" and unheeded as the
mysterious and unnamed deity  concerning whose claims the Apostle
so startled the luxurious Athenians. Like the ancient Greeks, all
had their favorite shrines that, to a greater or a less degree,
absorbed heart and brain.

Lottie was a votaress of pleasure: the first and about the only
article of her creed was to make everything and everybody  minister
to her enjoyment. She rarely entered on a day with a more definite
purpose than to have a "good time"; and in the attainment of this
end we have seen that she was by no means scrupulous.

She was as cruel a little pagan, too, as any of her remote Druidical
ancestors, and at her various shrines of vanity, pleasure, and
excitement, delighted in offering human sacrifices.  She had become
accustomed to the writhing of her victims, and soothed herself
with the belief that it did not hurt them so very much after all.
She considered no farther than that flirtation was one of the
recognized amusements of the fashionable. What the TON did was law
and gospel to her mother; and the same to Lottie, if agreeable. If
not, there was no law and no gospel for her.

She had no more scruple in making a victim of Hemstead than a Fiji
Island potentate would have in ordering a breakfast  according to
his depraved and barbarous taste. And when even society-men had
succumbed to her wiles, and in abject helplessness had permitted
her to place her imperious foot upon their necks, what chance had
a warm-hearted, unsophisticated fellow, with the most chivalric
ideas of womanhood?

Quick-witted Lottie, on seeing Hemstead and hearing his table-talk,
had modified Addie Marchmont's suggestion in her own mind. She saw
that, though unsuspicious and trusting  in his nature, he was too
intelligent to be imposed upon by broad farce. Therefore, a religious
mask would soon be known as such. Her aunt also would detect the
mischievous plot against her nephew and guest, and thwart it. By
appearing as a well-meaning unguided girl, who both needed and
wished an adviser, she might more safely keep this modern  Samson
blindly making sport for her and the others, and at the same time
not awaken the troublesome suspicions of her aunt and uncle. In the
character of one who was full of good impulses--who erred through
ignorance, and who wished to be led and helped to better things--she
was nearer the truth, and could act her part more successfully.

But what could Frank Hemstead, coming from a home in which he
had breathed the very atmosphere of truth and purity, know of all
this? To him Lottie was the most beautiful  creature he had ever
seen, and in his crystal integrity he would have deemed it a foul
insult to her to doubt that she was just what she seemed. To his
straightforward nature, believing a woman the opposite of what she
seemed was like saying to her, "Madam, you are a liar."

The world would be better if women did more to preserve this
chivalric trust.

"Past praying for!" His creed taught him to pray for all the world,
and already a subtile, unrecognized impulse of his heart led him
to plead before the Divine Father for one who seemed, in outward
grace, already fitted for heavenly surroundings.

When a block of unusually perfect marble falls under the eye of
a true sculptor, he is conscious of a strong impulse to bring out
the exquisite statue that is distinctly visible to his mind. Hemstead
was an enthusiast in the highest form of art and human effort, and
was developing, as the ruling motive of his life, a passion for
moulding the more enduring material of character into moral symmetry
and loveliness.  Humanity in its most forbidding guise interested
him, for his heart was warm and large and overflowed with a great
pity for the victims of evil. In this respect he was like his
Master, who had "compassion on the multitude." His anticipation
of his life-work was as non-professional as that of a mother who
yearns over the children she cannot help loving. Lottie appeared
strong and lovely by nature. It seemed to him that the half-effaced,
yet still lingering image of God rested upon her beautiful face
more distinctly than he had ever seen it elsewhere. The thought of
that image becoming gradually blurred and obliterated by sin--of
this seemingly exquisite and budding flower growing into a coarse,
rank weed--was revolting to his mind.






CHAPTER V.

PLAIN TALK.





At last the sound of mirth and laughter ceased, and the house became
quiet.

Lottie sat warming her feet at the glowing coals in her room,
before retiring. A dreamy smile played upon her face, coming and
going with passing thoughts, even as the firelight flickered upon
it.

She was in an unusually amiable mood, for this affair with Hemstead
promised richly. If he had been an ordinary and polished society-man,
the flirtation would have been humdrum,  like a score of others.
But he was so delightfully fresh and honest, and yet so clever
withal, that her eyes sparkled with anticipating mirth as she saw
him in various attitudes of awkward love-making, and then dropping
helplessly into the abyss of his own great, but empty heart, on
learning the vainness of his passion.

"He finds me 'more interesting than some doctrines,' indeed! I'll
put all his dry doctrines to rout in less than a week. I'll drive
text-books and professors out of his head, and everything else
(save myself) out of his heart, for a little while. But after he
gets back to Michigan, the doctrines will come creeping back into
their old place, and he will get comfortably over it like the rest.
In the mean while, as substantial and useful results, I will have
my rare bit of sport, and he will know more about the wicked world
against which he is to preach. By and by he will marry a pious Western
giantess, whose worst dissipation is a  Sunday-school picnic, and
will often petrify her soul with horror and wonder by describing
that awful little pagan, Lottie Marsden.

"And a heathen I am in very truth. Where are missionaries  needed
more than in Fifth Avenue? They had better not come, though; for
if we would not eat them, we would freeze them."

"What are you thinking about, Lottie, that you are smiling  so
sweetly?" asked her room-mate, Bel Parton.

"In truth, it was a sweet thought," said Lottie, her laugh awakening
sudden echoes in the still house, and sounding as oddly as a bird's
song at night. "I'm glad Frank Hemstead  doesn't know. If he did,
I should appall instead of fascinating him."

"I think your plot against him is very wrong,--wicked, indeed. He
is such a sincere, good young man, that I like it less and less.
I couldn't do such a thing."

"Still you can look on and enjoy the fun, and that is all you have
to do. Poor Bel, you are always in need of an M. D.'s or a D. D.'s
care. I have forsworn both."

So spoke Lottie in the arrogance of her perfect health and abounding
beauty, and then (such are the seeming  contradictions of character)
she knelt and appeared as a  white-robed saint at her devotions. But
the parrot-like prayer that she hastily mumbled was of no possible
value to any one.  She had continued the habit from childhood,
and it was mainly habit. The other motive was something like the
feeling  of a careless Catholic, who crosses himself, though he
cannot explain what good it does him.

A moment later she might have been taken as a model of sleeping
innocence.

This world is evidently sadly out of joint. We all know of the most
gentle, lovely, unselfish spirits, beautiful to Heaven's eye, that
are enshrined in painfully plain caskets.  In the instance of Lottie
Marsden, the casket was of nature's most exquisite workmanship,
but it held a tarnished jewel.

It was with some misgivings that Hemstead looked  forward to meeting
his "cousin," on the following morning.  Would she be as radiantly
beautiful, as piquant, and withal as kindly and frank as on the
previous evening? Even his limited experience of the world had shown
him that in the matter-of-fact and searching light of the morning
many of the illusions of the night vanish. He had noted with no
little surprise that ladies seemingly young and blooming had come
down to breakfast looking ten years older; so he had said to himself,
"She dazzled me last night. I shall see her as she is to-day."

Being an early riser he entered the cheerful breakfast-room
considerably before the others, and in a moment was entranced by
the view from the windows.

The severe north-east storm had expended itself during the night,
and its fine, sharp crystals had changed into  snowflakes. As an
angry man after many hard cutting words relents somewhat and speaks
calmly if still coldly, so nature, that had been stingingly severe
the evening before, was now quietly letting fall a few final hints
of the harsh mood that was passing away. Even while he looked, the
sun broke through a rift over the eastern mountains, and lighted up
the landscape as with genial smiles. It shone, not on an ordinary
and prosaic world, but rather on one that had been touched by magic
during the night and transformed into the wonder-land of dreams.

The trees that in the dusk of the previous night had writhed and
groaned and struck their frozen branches  together, gesticulating
like despairing anguish, now stood serene, and decked more daintily
than June would robe them. Whiter even than the pink-tinged blossoms
of May, was the soft wet snow that incased every twig, limb, and
spray. The more he looked, the more the beauty and the wonder of
the scene grew upon him. The sun was dispersing  the clouds and
adding the element of splendor to that of beauty. It became one of
the supreme moments of his life, and in the vanishing beauty of an
earthly scene he received an earnest of the perfect world beyond.

"With the exception of the broad dark river," he thought, "this
might be the Millennial morn, and nature standing decked in her
spotless ascension robes, waiting in breathless expectancy."

But his musings were unexpectedly interrupted, for just at this
moment Lottie Marsden put her hand lightly on his arm and said,
"Cousin Frank--pardon me--Mr. Hemstead, what is the matter? You
look as rapt as if you saw a vision."

He turned and seemed as startled as if he had, for standing  by
him and looking inquiringly into his face was a being that, with
her brilliant eyes and exquisitely clear and delicate complexion,
seemed as beautiful, and at the same time as frail and ready to
vanish, as the snow-wreaths without.

She saw the strong admiration and almost wonder depicted on his
open face, though she seemed so innocently oblivious of it, and for
a moment left him under the spell, then said, "Are you so resentful
at my desertion last evening that you won't speak to me?"

"Look there," he replied, and he pointed to the fairy-land without.

Lottie's wonder and delight were almost equal to his own, for she
had never witnessed such a scene before.

"I am so glad I came!" she said. "We see nothing like this in the
city. Look at those snowy mountains. How vast and white they are!"

"And look at that little tree with its red berries gleaming against
the snowy foil. They look like those rulsy ear-rings against the
whiteness of your neck."

She looked at him quickly and humorously, asking, "Where did you
learn the art of complimenting?"

"I had no thought of trivial compliment in the presence of a scene
like this," he answered gravely; "I was awed by the beauty I saw,
and it seemed as if the Great Artist must be near. I wished to
call your attention to the truth that, like all His work, the least
thing is perfect. That little tree with its red berries is beautiful
as well as the mountain. I now am glad too that you came, though
I dreaded any one's coming before, and the necessity of returning
to common-place  life. But suddenly, and as silently as one of those
snow-flakes, you appear, and I am startled to find you in keeping
with the scene, instead of an intrusion."

"And do I seem to you like a snow-flake--as pure and as cold?" she
asked, bending upon him her brilliant eyes.

"Not as cold, I trust, and if you were as pure you would not be
human. But your beauty seemed to me as marvellous  as that of the
scene I had been wondering at. I am not versed in society's disguises,
Miss Marsden, and can better express my thoughts than hide them.
You know you are very beautiful. Why should I not say so as well
as involuntarily express the fact in my face as I did a moment ago,
and as every one does, I suppose, who meets you.  There is nothing
brought to your attention more often, and more pressed upon you.
It must be so. Does not your beauty cause you much anxiety?"

"What a funny question!" laughed Lottie. "Your frankness  is
certainly as transparent as those snow-crystals there.  I cannot
say that it does. Why should it, even granting that it exists
independently of your disordered imagination?"

"It exposes you to a temptation very hard to resist. Such beauty
as yours should be but the reflex of character. I once saw, in an
art gallery of New York, a marble face so white, pure, and sweet,
that it has ever remained in my memory as an emblem of spiritual
beauty. Suppose every one that came in should touch that face, and
some with coarse and grimy fingers, what a smutched and tawdry look
it would soon have. You cannot help the admiring glances, flattering
words, and the homage that ever waits on beauty, any more than
the marble face the soiling touch of any Vandal  hand; but you can
prevent your soul from being stained and smirched with vanity and
pride."

"I never had any one to talk to me in this way," said Lottie, looking
demurely down. "Perhaps I should have been better if I had. I fear
you think me very vain and conceited."

"I should think it very strange if you were not somewhat vain. And
yet you do not act as if you were."

"Supposing I am vain. What difference does it make, if no one knows
it?" she asked abruptly.

"There are two who always will know it."

"Who?"

"God and yourself. And by and by all masks must be dropped, and
all the world see us as we are."

"Do you believe that?" she asked, a little startled at the thought.

"I know it," he replied, in a tone of quiet confidence that carries
more conviction than loud assertion. "Moreover, your beauty involves
a heavy burden of responsibility."

"Really, Mr. Hemstead, if you keep on you will prove beauty a great
misfortune, whether I possess it or not."

"Far from it."

"Granting for sake of argument your premise, how am I burdened with
responsibility?"

"Would it not almost break your heart, if your honorable father
were misappropriating money intrusted to his care?"

"Don't suggest such a thing."

"Only for the sake of illustration. Suppose he had the qualities
and position which led a great many to place their means in his
hands; would that not increase his responsibility?"

"Yes, if he accepted such trusts."

"Are there not more valuable possessions than dollars, stocks,
and bonds? Every one is more or less fascinated, drawn, and won by
beauty, and to the beautiful the most sacred thoughts and feelings
of the heart are continually intrusted.  History and biography show
that beautiful women, if true, gentle, and unselfish, have great
power with their own sex, and almost unbounded influence over men.
Your power, therefore, is subtle, penetrating, and reaches the inner
life, the very warp and woof of character. If a beautiful statue
can ennoble and refine, a beautiful woman can accomplish infinitely
more. She can be a constant inspiration, a suggestion  of the perfect
life beyond and an earnest of it. All power brings responsibility,
even that which a man achieves or buys; but surely, if one receives
Heaven's most exquisite gifts, bestowed as directly as this marvellous
beauty without, and so is made pre-eminent in power and influence,
she is under a double responsibility to use that power for good.
That a woman can take the royal gift of her own beauty, a divine
heritage, one of the most suggestive relics of Eden still left
among us, and daily sacrifice it on the poorest and meanest of
altars--her own vanity--is to me hard to understand.  It is scarcely
respectable heathenism. But to use her beauty as a lure is far
worse. Do we condemn wreckers, who place false, misleading lights
upon a dangerous  coast? What is every grace of a coquette, but a
false light, leading often to more sad and hopeless wreck?"

No man had ever told Lottie more plainly that she was beautiful,
than Hemstead, and yet she disliked his compliments  wofully. Her
face fairly grew pale under his words.  Had he learned of her plot?
Had he read her thoughts, and been informed of her past life? Did
quiet satire and denunciation lurk under this seeming frankness?
She was for the moment perplexed and troubled. Worse still, he
compelled her to see these things in a new light, and her conscience
echoed his words.

But her first impulse was to learn whether he was speaking  generally,
or pointedly at her; so she asked, in some little trepidation,
"Has any naughty girl tried to treat you badly, that you speak so
strongly?"

He laughed outright at this question. "No one has had a chance,"
he said; "and I do not think there are many who would take it.
Moreover, I imagine that one of your proud belles would not even
condescend to flirt with a poor awkward fellow like me. But I am
not a croaking philosopher,  and look on the bright side of the
world. It has always treated me quite as well as I deserved. I often
think the world is not so bad as described, and that it would be
better, if it had a chance."

"Have you seen much of it, Mr. Hemstead?"

"I cannot say that I have. I have read and thought about it far
more than I have seen. On account of my limited means and student
life, my excursions have been few and far between. I have already
proved to you what an awkward stranger I am to society. But in
thought and fancy I have been a great rambler, and like to picture
to myself all kinds of scenes, past and present, and to analyze
all kinds of character."

"I hope you won't analyze mine," she said, looking at him rather
distrustfully. "I should not like to be dissected before I was
dead."

"I wish all were as able to endure analysis as yourself, Miss
Marsden. In any case, you have no reason to fear a severe critic
in me."

"Why not?"

"Because you have been so lenient towards me. I have received more
kindness from you, a stranger, than from my own kindred."

"You are very grateful."

"Shakespeare declares ingratitude a 'marble-hearted fiend.'"

"You evidently are not 'marble-hearted.'"

"Though possibly a fiend. Thank you."

"I wish there were no worse to fear."

"You need not have occasion to fear any."

"Well, I can't say that I do very much. Perhaps it would be better
for me if I did."

"Why so?"

"Then I should be more afraid to do wrong. Miss Parton  cannot do
wrong with any comfort at all."

"Well, that would be a queer religion which consisted only in being
afraid of the devil and his imps."

"What is religion? I am foolish in asking such a question  however,
for I suppose it would take you a year to answer it, and they will
all be down to breakfast in a few moments."

"O, no, I can answer it in a sentence. True religion is worshipping
God in love and faith, and obeying Him."

"Is that all?" exclaimed Lottie, in unfeigned astonishment.

"That is a great deal."

"Perhaps it is. You theologians have a way of preaching  awfully
long and difficult sermons from simple texts.  But I never got as
simple an idea of religion as that from our minister."

"I fear you think I have been preaching for the last half-hour.
Perhaps I can best apologize for my long homilies this morning by
explaining. When an artist is in his best mood, he wishes to be
at his easel. The same is true of every one who does something con
amore. When I saw the transfigured world this morning, it was like
a glimpse into heaven, and--"

"And a naughty little sinner came in just at that moment, and
got the benefit of your mood," interrupted Lottie.  "Well, I have
listened to your sermon and understand it, and that is more than I
can say of many I have heard. It certainly was pointed, and seemed
pointed at me, and I have heard it said that it is proof of a good
sermon for each one to go away feeling that he has been distinctly
preached at. But permit me as a friend, Mr. Hemstead, to suggest that
this will not answer in our day. I fear, from my little foretaste,
that people will not be able to sit comfortably under your homilies,
and unless you intend to preach out in the back-woods, you must
modify your style."

"That is where I do intend to preach. At least upon the frontiers
of our great West."

"O, how dismal!" she exclaimed. "And can you, a young, and I suppose
an ambitious man, look forward to being buried alive, as it were,
in those remote regions?"

"I assure you I do not propose to be buried alive at the West, or
spiritually smothered, as you hinted, in a fashionable  church at
the East. I think the extreme West, where states and society are
forming with such marvellous rapidity, is just the place for a
young, and certainly for an ambitious man. Is it nothing to have
a part in founding and shaping an empire?"

"You admit that you are ambitious, then."

"Yes."

"Is that right?"

"I think so."

"Our minister inveighs against ambition, as if it were one of the
deadly sins."

"He means the ambition that is all for self. That is as wrong and
contemptible as the beauty that is miserable without  a looking-glass.
An ardent desire to obtain my Divine Master's approval, and to be
worthy of it--to be successful in serving a noble cause--cannot be
wrong."

She looked at his earnest face and eyes, that seemed to glow with
hidden fire, almost wistfully; and said with a tinge of sadness, "You
will feel very differently I fear, twenty years hence. Enthusiasm
is a rare thing in the city, and I imagine it is soon quenched
everywhere."

"So it is; it needs constant rekindling."

Just then Mrs. Marchmont and Mr. Dimmerly appeared, and soon after
they all sat down to a late breakfast.






CHAPTER VI.

A SLEIGH-RIDE AND SOMETHING MORE.





Lottie assumed an unusual degree of gayety during the early part
of the meal, but her flow of spirits seemed unequal, and to flag
towards the last. She had sudden fits of abstraction, during which
her jetty eyebrows contracted into unwonted frowns.

Her practical joke did not promise so well as on the evening
before. That unexpected half-hour's talk had shown some actions in
a new light. She did not mind doing wicked things that had a spice
of hardihood and venturesomeness in them. But to do what had been
made to appear mean and dishonorable was another thing, and she was
provoked enough at Hemstead for having unconsciously given that
aspect to her action and character, and still more annoyed and
perplexed that her conscience should so positively side with him.
Thus it will be seen that her conscience was unawakened, rather
than seared and deadened.

As she came to know Hemstead better, she found that he was different
from what she had expected. The conventional idea of a theological
student had dwelt in her mind; and she had expected to find a
rather narrow and spiritually  conceited man, full of the clerical
mannerisms which she had often heard laughed at. But she saw that
Hemstead's  awkwardness would wear away, through familiarity with
society, and that, when at ease, he was simple and manly in manner.
She also perceived that this seclusion from the world, which was
the cause of his diffidence, had been employed in training  and
richly storing his mind. Moreover, to one so accustomed  to the
insincerity of society, his perfect frankness of speech and manner
was a novelty, interesting, if not always pleasing. She read his
thoughts as she would an open page, and saw that he esteemed her
as a true, sincere girl, kind and womanly, and that he had for her
the strongest respect. She feared that when he discovered her true
self he would scorn her to loathing. Not that she cared, except
that her pride would be hurt. But as she was more proud than vain,
she feared this honest man's verdict.

But soon her old reckless self triumphed. "Of course what I am
doing will seem awful to him," she thought. "I knew that before I
commenced. He shall not preach me out of my fun in one half-hour.
If I could make him love me in spite of what I am, it would be the
greater triumph.  After all, I am only acting as all the girls in
my set do when they get a chance. It's not as bad as he makes out."

Still that was an eventful half-hour, when they looked out upon a
transfigured world together; and while she saw nature in her rarest
and purest beauty, she had also been given a glimpse into the more
beautiful world of truth, where God dwells.

But, as the morning advanced, good impulses and better feelings
and thoughts vanished, even as the snow-wreaths were dropping from
branch and spray, leaving them as bare as before. By the time the
sleigh drove up to the door she was as bent as ever upon victimizing
the "Western giant," as the conspirators had named him. She was
her old,  decided, resolute self; all the more resolute because
facing, to her, a new hindrance,--her own conscience, which Hemstead
had unwittingly awakened; and it said to its uncomfortable  possessor
some rather severe things that day.

If Lottie were Bel Parton, she would have been in a miserably
undecided state. But it was her nature to carry out what she had
begun, if for no other reason than that she had begun it, and she
was not one to give up a frolic at anyone's scolding,--even her
own.

As she tripped down the broad stairs in a rich cloak trimmed with
fur, she reminded Hemstead of some rare tropical bird, and De Forrest
indulged in many notes of  admiration. Lottie received these as a
matter of course, but looked at the student with genuine interest.
His expression seemed to satisfy her, for she turned away to hide
a smile that meant mischief.

It was quietly arranged that Hemstead should sit beside her, and
he felicitated himself over their artifice as if it were rare good
fortune.

Though the sun and the rising breeze had shaken off the clustering
snow to a great extent, the evergreens still bent beneath their
beautiful burdens, some straight cedars  reminding one of vigorous
age, where snowy hair and beard alone suggest the flight of years.

Though the face of nature was so white, it was not the face of
death. There was a sense of movement and life which was in accord
with their own spirits and rapid motion.  Snow-birds fluttered and
twittered in weedy thickets by the way-side, breakfasting on the
seeds that fell like black specks upon the snow. The bright sunlight
had lured the red squirrels from their moss-lined nests in hollow
trees, and their barking was sometimes heard above the chime of
the bells.

"There goes a parson crow," cried Addie Marchmont.  "How black and
solemn he looks against the snow!"

"Why are crows called parsons, Mr. Hemstead?" asked Lottie, as a
child might.

"Indeed, I don't know. For as good a reason, I suppose, as that
some girls are called witches."

She gave him a quick, keen look, and said, "I hope you mean nothing
personal."

"I should never charge you with being a witch, Miss Marsden, but
I might with witchery."

"A distinction without a difference," she said, seeking to lead
him on.

"He means," explained De Forrest, "that you might be bewitching if
you chose."

"Hush, Julian, you leave no room for the imagination," said Lottie,
frowningly.

"Look at that farm-yard, Miss Marsden," said Hemstead.  "The occupants
seem as glad that the storm is over as we are. What pictures of
placid content those ruminating cows are under that sunny shed. See
the pranks of that colt which the boy is trying to lead to water.
I wish I were on his back, with the prairie before me."

"Indeed, are you so anxious to escape present company?"

"Now I didn't say that. But we have passed by, and I fear you did
not see the pretty rural picture to which I called your attention.
Were I an artist I would know where to make a sketch to-day."

"I think you will find that Miss Marsdeo's taste differs very
widely from yours," said De Forrest; "that is, if you give us to
understand that you would seek your themes in a barn-yard, and set
your easel upon a muck-heap. Though your pictures might not rank
high they would still be very rank."

Even Lottie joined slightly in the general and not  complimentary
laugh at Hemstead which followed this thrust, but he, with heightened
color, said, "You cannot criticise my picture, Mr. De Forrest, for
it does not exist. Therefore  I must conclude that your satire is
directed against my choice of place and subjects."

"Yes, as with the offence of Denmark's king, they 'smell to heaven.'"

"I appeal to you, Miss Marsden, was not the scent of hay and the
breath of the cattle as we caught them passing, sweet and wholesome?"

"I cannot deny that they were."

"You have judicial fairness and shall be umpire in this question.
And now, Mr. De Forrest, there is a celebrated and greatly admired
picture in a certain gallery, representing a scene from the Roman
Saturnalia. You do not object to that, with its classic accessories,
as a work of art?"

"Not at all."

"And yet it portrays a corruption that does in truth 'offend heaven.'
Your muck-heap, which did not enter my thought at all, and would
not have been in my picture, could I paint one, would have been
wholesome in  comparison. Have I made a point, Judge Marsden?"

"I think you have."

"Finally, Mr. De Forrest, what are we to do with the fact that some
of the greatest painters in the world have  employed their brushes
upon just such scenes as these, which perhaps offend your nose
and taste more than they do heaven, and that pictures such as that
farm-yard would suggest adorn the best galleries of Europe?"

"What artists of note have painted barn-yard scenes?" asked De
Forrest, in some confusion.

"Well, there is Herring, the famous English artist, for one."

"'Herring' indeed. You are evidently telling a fish Story," said
De Forrest, contemptuously.

"No, he is not," said Lottie. "Herring is a famous painter, I am
told, and we have some engravings of his works."

"And I have read somewhere," continued Hemstead, "that his painting
of an English farm-yard is the most celebrated of his works.
Moreover, Judge Marsden, I must ask of you another decision as
to the evidence in this case.  I affirm that I did not call your
attention to the farm-yard itself, but to its occupants. Is not
that true?"

"I cannot deny that it is."

"We all know that many eminent artists have made the painting of
animals a specialty, and among them are such world-renowned names
as Landseer and Rosa Bonheur.  Moreover, in the numerous pictures
of the Nativity we often find the homely details of the stable
introduced. One of Rubens' paintings of this sacred and favorite
subject, which hangs in the gallery of the Louvre, represents two
oxen feeding at a rack."

"Come, Julian, hand over your sword. It won't do for you or any
one to sit in judgment on such painters as Mr.  Hemstead has named.
You are fairly beaten. I shall admire barn-yards in future, through
thick and thin."

"That is hardly a fair conclusion from any testimony of mine,"
said Hemstead. "A barn-yard may be all that Mr.  De Forrest says of
it, but I am sure you will always find pleasure in seeing a fine
frolicsome horse or a group of patient cattle. The homely accessories
may, and sometimes may not, add to the picture."

"How do you come to know so much about pictures?  Theology has
nothing to do with art."

"I dissent from Judge Marsden's decision now, most  emphatically,"
replied Hemstead. "Is not true art fidelity to nature?"

"Yes, so it is claimed."

"And where does nature come from? God is the Divine Artist, and
is furnishing themes for all other artists. God is the author of
landscapes, mountains, rivers, of scenes like that we saw this morning,
or of a fine face and a noble form, as truly as of a chapter in the
Bible. He manifests Himself in these things. Now fine paintings,
statuary, and music bring out the hidden meanings of nature,
and therefore more clearly God's thought. Theology, or knowledge
concerning our Creator, is a science to which everything can minister,
and surely the appreciation of the beautiful should be learned in
connection with the Author of all beauty."

"I never thought of God in that light before," said Lottie.  "He
has always seemed like one watching to catch me at something wrong.
Our solemn old Sunday-school teacher used to say to us children
just before we went home, 'Now during the week whenever you are
tempted to do anything wrong, remember the text, "Thou, God, seest
me."' When wasn't I tempted to do wrong? and I had for a long time
the uncomfortable feeling that two great eyes were always staring
at me. But this isn't sleigh-riding chit-chat," and she broke into
a merry little trill from a favorite opera.

Hemstead, with his strong love of the beautiful, could not help
watching her with deepening interest. The rapid motion, the music
of the bells, the novel scenery of the  sun-lighted, glittering
world around her, and, chief of all, her own abounding health and
animal life, combined to quicken her excitable nature into the
keenest enjoyment. From her red lips came ripples of laughter,
trills from operas, sallies of fun, that kept the entire party from
the thought of  heaviness, and to honest-minded Hemstead were the
evidences of a happy, innocent heart.

With secret exultation she saw how rapidly and unconsciously  the
unwary student was passing under the spell of her beauty and
witchery.

One must have been cursed with a sluggish, half-dead body and a
torpid soul, had he not responded to the  influences under which
our gay party spent the next few hours.  Innumerable snow-flakes
had carried down from the air every particle of impurity, and left
it sweet and wholesome enough to seem the elixir of immortal youth.
It was so tempered also, that it only braced and stimulated. The raw,
pinching coldness of the previous day was gone. The sun, undimmed
by a cloud, shone genially, and eaves facing the south were dripping,
the drops falling like glittering gems.

Now and then a breeze would career down upon them, and, catching
the light snow from the adjacent fence, would cast it into their
faces as a mischievous school-boy might.

"Stop that!" cried Lottie to one of these sportive zephyrs.  "De
you call that a gust of wind? I declare it was a viewless  sprite,
or a party of snow elves, playing their mad pranks upon us."

"I prefer fairies less cold and ethereal," said De Forrest, with
a meaning look at the speaker.

"What do you prefer, Mr. Hemstead?" she asked. "But where we people
of the world speak of fairies, sprites, and nymphs, I suppose you
permit yourself to think only of angels."

"Were it so," he replied, "I should still be of the same mind as
Mr. De Forrest, and be glad that you are not an angel."

"Why so?"

"You might use your wings and leave us."

"Were I one, I would not leave you after that speech.  But see how
far I am from it. I weigh one hundred and fifteen pounds."

"I wish you were no farther off than that."

"What do you mean?"

"It's not our weight in avoirdupois that drags us down.  But I am
not going to preach any more to-day. Listen to the bells--how they
echo from the hill-side!"

"Yes, Julian, listen to Bel," said Lottie to De Forrest, who was
about to speak. "I'm talking to Mr. Hemstead.  See those snow-crystals
on my muff. How can you account for so many odd and beautiful
shapes?"

"To me all the countless forms in nature," said Hemstead, "prove an
infinite mind gratifying itself. They are expressions  of creative
thought."

"Nonsense! God doesn't bother with such little things as these."

"We do not know what seems small or great to Him.  The microscope
reveals as much in one direction as the telescope in another, and
the common house-fly seems in size midway in animal life."

"And do you believe that the Divine hand is employed in forming
such trifles as these?"

"The Divine will is. But these trifles make the avalanche and the
winter's protection for next year's harvest."

"What is that?" asked Harcourt from the front seat, where he was
driving.

"Do you know," cried Lottie, "that Mr Hemstead thinks everything
we see, even to nature's smallest trifles, an  'expression of the
Divine creative thought.'"

"Is that scene such an expression?" asked Harcourt, with a sneering
laugh, in which the others joined.

By the road-side there was a small hovel, at the door of which a
half-fed, ill-conditioned pig was squealing. When they were just
opposite, a slatternly, carroty-headed woman opened the door, and
raised her foot to drive the clamorous beast away. Altogether, it
was as squalid and repulsive a picture as could well be imagined.

"Yes," replied Lottie, looking into his face with twinkling eyes,
"was that sweet pastoral scene an expression of creative thought?"

"The woman certainly was not," he answered, reddening.  "A thought
may be greatly perverted."

"Whatever moral qualities may be asserted of her manners,  costume,
and character," said Harcourt, "she is not to blame for the cast
of her features and the color of her hair. I scarcely know of
an artist who would express any such thought, unless he wished to
satirize humanity."

"You can call up before you the portrait of some beautiful  woman,
can you not, Mr. Harcourt?"

"Let me assist you," cried De Forrest, pulling from his inner pocket
a photograph of Lottie.

"Hush, Julian. I'm sorry you do not appreciate this grave argument
more; I'll take that picture from you, if you don't behave better."

"Well, I have a picture before me now, that satisfies me fully,"
said Mr. Harcourt, turning to Lottie with a smiling bow.

"Now, suppose that you had painted just such a likeness and finished
it. Suppose I should come afterwards, and, without destroying your
picture utterly, should blend with those features the forbidding
aspect of the woman we have just seen, would you not say that your
thought was greatly perverted?"

"I should think I would."

"Well, Mother Eve was the true expression of the Divine Artist's
creative thought, and the woman we saw was the perversion of it.
You can trace no evil thing to the source of all good. Perfection
is not the author of imperfection."

"Who does the perverting, then?" asked Lottie.

"Evil."

"I don't think it fair that one face and form should be perverted
into hideousness, and mother left with something of the first
perfection."

"Evil is never fair, Miss Marsden."

"But is it only evil? I have heard plain children told, when
resenting their ugliness, that it was wicked, for they were just
as God made them."

"Can you think of a better way to make a young girl hate God than
to tell her that?"

"But suppose it's true."

"I am sure it is not. Just the opposite is true. The ugly
and deformed are as evil has marred them, and not as God has made
them. By seeking the Divine Artist's aid more than humanity's first
perfection can be regained.  It is possible for even that wretched
creature we saw to attain an outward loveliness exceeding that of
any woman now living."

"That passes beyond the limit of my imagination," said Harcourt.

"Absurd!" muttered De Forrest.

"I fear you are not orthodox," said Bel.

"That means you do not agree with me. But please do not think that
because I am a minister you must talk upon subjects that are rather
grave and deep for a sleighing party."

"That's right, Cousin Frank," said Addie. "Dr. Beams will want you
to preach for him next Sunday. I advise you to reserve your thunder
till that occasion, when you may come out as strong as you please."

"'Chinese thunder' at best," whispered Harcourt to Addie; but all
heard him.

Hemstead bit his lip and said nothing, but Lottie spoke up quickly:
"No matter about the 'thunder,' Mr. Harcourt.  That is only noise
under any circumstances. But suppose there is the lightning of
truth in what Mr. Hemstead says?"

"And suppose there is not?" he replied, with a shrug.

Hemstead gave Lottie a quick, pleased look, which Bel and De Forrest
smilingly noted, and the conversation changed to lighter topics.

As they were passing through a small hamlet some miles back from
the river, a bare-headed man came running out from a country store
and beckoned them to stop, saying: "We're going to give our dominie
a donation party to-night.  Perhaps Mrs. Marehmont will do suthin'
for us, or likely you'll all like to drive over and help the young
folks enjoy themselves."

"Capital!" cried Lottie; "I've always wanted to attend a country
donation. Do you think we can come, Addie?"

"O, certainly, if you wish, but I fear you won't enjoy it.  You
will not meet any of our 'set' there."

"I don't wish to meet them. I want to meet the other 'set' and have
a frolic."

"It will be moonlight, and we will have the drive, which will be
the best part of it, you will find," said Harcourt.  "Yes, we will
come."

"Them folks thinks that they's made of different flesh and blood
from the other 'set,' as they call us, and that pretty young woman
wants to come as she would go to a menagerie," muttered the man
as he went back to the store.  "No matter, let 'em come, they will
help us make up the salary."

"Of course, Mr. Hemstead, you will enter upon this expedition with
great zeal, as it will be to the advantage of one of your fraternity."

"I think, with Mr. Harcourt, that the ride will be the best part
of it."

"O, for shame! Can it be true that two of even your trade can never
agree?"

"Long ages of controversy prove that," said Harcourt.

"I think your profession has done more to keep the world in hot
water than ours, Mr. Harcourt."

"We at least agree among ourselves."

"All the worse, perhaps, for the world."

"That's rather severe if you refer to the proverb, 'When rogues
fall out, honest men get their dues,'" said Lottie.

"I supposed we were talking in jest; I was."

"You evidently belong to the church militant, since you strike
back so hard even in jest," said Harcourt. "Very well, since you
are so able to take care of yourself I shall have no compunctions
in regard to your fate."

Hemstead did not understand this remark, but the others did,
and significant glances were exchanged. He turned inquiringly to
Lottie, feeling that in a certain sense he had an ally in her, but
she seemed looking away abstractedly as if she had not heeded the
remark. She was too quick to be caught easily, and the conviction
grew upon him that while the others from his calling and difference
in views and tastes had a natural aversion, she was inclined to be
friendly. And yet she puzzled him not a little at times, as now for
instance, when she turned and said, "I suppose there are a great
many nice young men at your seminary."

"I never heard them called' nice young men,'" he replied, looking
at her keenly.

"O, I beg your pardon,--good, pious, devotional young men, I mean."

"All ought to be that; do you not think so?"

"Well, yes, I think so, since they are to become ministers."

"But not otherwise?"

"I didn't say that. There's a hint for you, Julian."

De Forrest's reply was a contemptuous shrug and laugh.  It would
be anything but agreeable to him to be thought "good, pious, and
devotional,"--qualities not in demand at his club, nor insisted on
by Lottie, and entirely repugnant to his tastes.

"Do they all intend to be missionaries as well as yourself?"  she
continued.

"O, no; some no doubt will take city churches, and marry wealthy
wives."

"Would that be wrong?"

"I am not the judge. It's a matter of taste and conscience."

"Would you not marry a lady of wealth?"

"I would marry the woman I loved; that is, if I could get her."

"Well added," said De Forrest.

"Yes, sir, I agree with you. Every man had better add that."

"Indeed they had," said Lottie, with a mischievous twinkle in her
eyes.

"There is always a chance for a man who will never take 'no' for
an answer," said De Forrest with a light laugh.

"Do you think so?" she said, lifting her eyebrows  questioningly.
"I agree with Mr. Hemstead. It's a matter of taste and conscience."

"Do you intend to be a missionary, Mr. Hemstead?" asked Bel Parton.

"I hope so," he replied, quietly.

"Yes," said Lottie; "just think of it. He is going away out to
the jumping-off place at the West, where he will have the border
ruffians on one side and the scalping Indians on the other. You
said you would marry the woman you loved, if you could. Do you think
any real nice girl would go with you to such a horrible place?"

"I'm sure I don't know. If the one I want won't  venture, I can go
alone."

"Do you think she'll go?" asked Lottie, so innocently that the
others had no slight task in controlling their faces.

"Who will go?" said Hemstead, quickly.

"The one whom you said you wanted to."

"Now I'm sure I did not mention any one," said  Hemstead, blushing
and laughing.

"Well, you did not exactly speak her name."

74 FROM JE&T TO EARNEST-

"No, I should think not, since I don't know it myself."

"How provoking!" pouted Lottie. "I thought we were going to have
a nice little romance."

"It's a pity I've nothing to tell, in view of my sympathizing
audience," he replied, with a glance at the gigglers on the other
seats.

"But I have been told," said Lottie, "that in emergencies committees
have been appointed to select wives for missionaries,  and that
there are excellent women who are willing to sacrifice themselves
for the sake of the cause."

An explosion of laughter followed these words, but she looked at
the others in innocent surprise.

"That's a funny speech for you to make so gravely," said Hemstead.
"I fear you are quizzing me. Your missionary lore certainly exceeds
mine in regard to the 'committees.' But there will be no emergency
in my case, and I should be sorry to have any woman, excellent or
otherwise, sacrifice herself for me."

"I have certainly heard so," said Lottie, positively.

"I fear you have heard more to the prejudice of missionaries  and
their works than in their favor," he said somewhat gravely."

"But I am willing to hear the other side," she whispered in his
ear.

"Now I protest against that," said De Forrest.

"I'll give you the privilege of whispering to Bel," said Lottie,
sweetly.

"O, thank you," replied De Forrest, with a shrug.

"You can also help me out," she continued, as the sleigh stopped
at Mrs. Marchmont's door.

As he did so he whispered in her ear, "Capital, Lottie, you are a
star actress, and always my bright particular star."

"Don't be sentimental, Julian," was her only response.

At this moment Lottie's brother Dan fired a snow-ball that carried
off Mr. Hemstead's hat; at which all laughed, and expected to see
the young theologian assume a look of offended dignity. He disappointed
them by good-naturedly springing out after his hat, and was soon
romping with the boy and Mrs. Marchmont's two younger children.
This was too tempting to Lottie, who joined the frolic at once.

Hemstead laughingly allowed himself to be their victim, and skilfully
threw great snow-balls so as just to miss them, while they pelted
him till he was white, and, as if utterly defeated, he led them a
breathless chase up and down the broad path. Their cries and laughter
brought half the household to the doors and windows to watch the
sport.

De Forrest ventured down from the piazza, with the thought that
he could throw a spiteful ball or two at one he already disliked a
little, as well as despised. But Hemstead immediately showed what
a self-sacrificing victim he was to Lottie and the children by
almost demolishing De Forrest with a huge snow-ball that stung his
ear sharply, got down his neck, spoiling his collar, and necessitating
such a toilet that he was late for dinner.

His plight took Lottie out of the field also, for she sank on the
lower step of the piazza, her hand upon her side, helpless with
laughter.

Hemstead retreated to a side door, where he shook himself  after
the manner of a polar bear, and escaped to his room.






CHAPTER VII.

ANOTHER SPELL THAN BEAUTY'S.





De Forrest tried to laugh at his discomfiture when he appeared at
the dinner-table, but he was evidently annoyed and vexed with its
author.

"It was very nice of you, Mr. Hemstead," said Lottie, "to permit
youself to be pelted by us. You evidently did not think us worthy
of your steel. But I fear you gave Julian a strong compliment."

"I only returned one of his."

"But he did not hit you."

"He meant to. We form our most correct judgment of people sometimes
from what they intend, rather than what they do."

"Well, I thank you for my share of the sport."

"And I thank you for mine."

"What occasion have you to thank me, when I almost put your eyes
out with snow?"

"You did not so blind them but that I could see a face aglow with
exercise. That made a pleasing contrast to the cold white snow."

"Frank, Frank, you will make Lottie vain," said Mrs.  Marchmont.
"I did not know that complimenting was permitted to you."

"That is all right, sister," said Mr. Dimmerly. "That's where
he shows his good blood and connection with an old family. He is
gallant to the ladies. They can't get that out of him, even at a
theological seminary."

Hemstead's blushing confusion increased the laugh at this speech.

"O, mother," exclaimed Addie, "we are all going on a frolic to-night.
You know that poor, forlorn little minister at Scrub Oaks, who
has six children, and gets but six  hundred a year? Well, they are
going to give him a donation to-night, so a dilapidated pillar of
the church told us. We were invited to come, and Lottie wants to
go."

"Very well, my dear, since you and our guests wish it."

"Now, auntie, that's very sweet of you to answer so," said Lottie.
"I want to see the queer, awkward country people who go to such
places. They amuse me vastly; don't they you, Mr. Hemstead?"

"They interest me."

"O, it wouldn't be proper for you to say 'amuse.'"

"Nor would it be exactly true."

"Why, Lottie," said Addie, "you know that ministers only think of
people as a sad lot that must be saved."

"We'll help make a jolly lot there, to-night," said Lottie, with a
swift glance at Hemstead's contracting brows. "Moreover,  auntie,
I want to see what a minister that lives on six hundred a year
looks like. We give our pastor ten thousand."

"You need not go so far for that purpose, Miss Marsden," said
Hemstead, quietly: "that is all I shall get."

"What!" she exclaimed, dropping her knife and fork.

"That, in all probability, will be my salary at first. It may be
but five hundred."

"Is that all they pay you for going out among the border ruffians?"

"That is the average."

"I wouldn't go," she said indignantly,

"You may rest assured I would not, for the money."

"Frank will change his mind before spring," said his aunt; "or a
year at least among the 'border ruffians,' as you call them, will
cure him, and he will be glad to take a nice church at the East."

"What do you say to that, Mr. Hemstead?"

"Perhaps I would better answer by my actions," he replied.

"But I can see from the expression of your eyes and mouth a very
plain answer to the contrary. Mr. Hemstead, you could be a very
stubborn man if you chose."

"I hope I could be a very resolute one."

"Yes, so we explain ourselves when we will have our own way. I
think Aunt Marchmont's suggestion a very good one."

"If we go to the donation we shall have to take something,"  said
Bel.

"O, yes," exclaimed Addie; "I am told all sorts of queer things are
brought. Let us take the oddest and most  outlandish we can think
of. Uncle, there is your old blue  dresscoat; we will take that
for the minister. Wouldn't he look comical preaching in it? And,
mother, there is your funny low-necked satin dress that you wore
when a young lady. I will take that for his wife."

"I understand everybody brings pies to a donation," said Harcourt.
"I shall be more pious than any of them, and bring over fifty
from town this afternoon. I will buy all the bake-shops out, in my
zeal,--enough to give the parson and all his people the dyspepsia
for a month."

"If he lives on six hundred, nothing could give him the dyspepsia
save his own sermons, I imagine," said De Forrest. "My young lady
friends have half filled one of my bureau drawers with smoking-caps.
I have one with me, and will give it to the minister."

"You vain fellow," laughed Lottie. "I never gave you one."

"Rest assured, no minister--even were he a minister to the Court
of St. James--should get it, if you had."

"What will you take, Mr. Hemstead?" asked Lottie, noting his grave
face.

"I shall not go."

"Why not? You spoke as if you would, this morning."

"I cannot go under the circumstances."

"Why not?" asked Addie, rather sharply.

"Could we take such gifts to a gentleman and lady, Cousin Addie?"

"Well, I suppose not," she answered, reddening.

"I see no proof that this clergyman and his wife are not in the fact
that they are compelled to live on six hundred a year. Besides, I
have too much respect for the calling."

"Don't you see?" said De Forrest to Addie, in a loud whisper. "'Our
craft is in danger.'"

"Your explanation is more crafty than true, Mr. De  Forrest," said
Hemstead, looking him straight in the eyes.

"Come," cried Lottie, "my party is not to be broken up.  Mr.
Hemstead, you need not look so serious or take the matter so much
to heart. As you declared once before to-day, we were only 'talking
in jest.' You cannot think we would willingly hurt the feelings of
your brother clergyman.  Surely, if you thought they were serious,
it was good of you to stand up for him. We will all give money:
that must be the thing the poor man needs most sorely."

"I will give twenty-five dollars if you will, Mr. Hemstead," said
De Forrest, with a malicious twinkle in his eye.

"That's liberal of you, Julian. That's action in the right
direction," said Lottie; and she turned to Hemstead,  expecting a
prompt response. But the moment she saw his face she surmised the
truth and De Forrest's motive in making  the offer, and what had
appeared generous was now seen to be the reverse. But she determined
that Julian should give the money, nevertheless. Still she did not
at once interfere, but watched with no little curiosity, to see
how Hemstead would extricate himself.

The young man was much embarrassed. He had an innate horror of
seeming niggardly, and the course he had taken made his position
more delicate. But his simplicity and truthfulness came to his
aid, and he said firmly, although with a crimson face, "I am sorry
I cannot accept your  generous proposition, but I will give in
accordance with my ability. I can give only five dollars."

Mr. Dimmerly and Mrs. Marchmont looked annoyed, while Addie gave
utterance to an audible titter. Bel laughed, and then looked as if
she had done wrong.

But Lottie, with graceful tact, which was still only good acting,
said: "And that, I am sure, is all that can be asked of Mr. Hemstead
or of any one. But the poor man shall not lose the money, Julian,
for I will supply Mr. Hemstead with what is lacking."

"Pardon me, Miss Marsden, I cannot take it."

"Not even for this needy minister with his six children?"

"I cannot sacrifice my self-respect for any one," he said.  "Why
cannot Mr. De Forrest give what he wishes without imposing a
condition which leaves it doubtful whether he is to give at all?"

"O, yes, he is to give," said Lottie, promptly. "I take your offer,
Julian. It's delightful to have such a genuine object of charity
as a minister living on six hundred a year."

This was spoken very innocently, but was in reality a keen thrust
at Hemstead, who had so recently stated his prospective  income at
that sum. That the others understood it as such was shown by their
significant glances, as they rose from the table.

Hemstead could not discover from Lottie's face whether she meant
a covert allusion to himself or not.

Harcourt drove over to town, promising to be back in time. The
other young people said that the long drive had made them drowsy,
and retired to their rooms for a nap.  Hemstead went to the parlor and
tried to read, but his thoughts wandered strangely. The beautiful
face of Lottie Marsden haunted him, and the puzzling contradictions of
her words and manner kept rising in his mind for solution.  After
a prolonged revery, he came to the conclusion: "I have left nothing
ambiguous about myself. If she is friendly after this she knows
just who and what I am. It's plain the others think me no addition
to their company, and I'm almost sorry I accepted aunt's invitation.
However, I can shorten the visit if I choose;" and he turned
resolutely to his book.

Instead of donning her wrapper, as did Bel, Lottie sat down before
the fire, and, as was often her custom,  commenced half-talking to
her friend and familiar, and  half-thinking aloud to herself.

"Well, he is the frankest and most transparent man I ever saw. I
have been acquainted with him but a few hours, and I feel that I
know him better than I do Julian, with whom I have been intimate
so many years."

"He's sincerely, honestly good, too," said Bel. "I think it's too
bad, Lottie, that you all treat him so. It's really wicked."

"Yes," said Lottie, meditatively. "It's a good deal more wicked
than I thought it would be."

"Then you will give it up."

"No indeed. I haven't said that."

"How can you do it, Lottie, when you know it is wrong?"

"I knew it was wrong when I commenced. I only know now that it is
a little more wrong. Why should I give up my fun on that account?
I might as well die for an old black sheep as a speckled lamb."

Bel yawned at the rather peculiar and tragic ending that Lottie
suggested for herself, and was soon dozing on a lounge.  But
either a restless spirit of mischief, or a disturbed  conscience,
prevented Lottie from following her example.

It would at times seem true that, when engaged in something  that
conscience forbids, the very opposition incites and leads to
the evil. The conflict between inclination and the sense of right
creates a feverish unrest, in which one cannot settle down to
ordinary pursuits and duties. If principle holds the reins, and
the voice of conscience is clear and authoritative, the disturbed
mental and moral state will end in the firm choice of duty, and
consequent peace and rest.  But if, as in the case of Lottie Marsden,
impulse rules in the place of principle, and conscience is merely
like a  half-dreaded, reproachful face, this unrest is the very hour
and opportunity for temptation. Some escape from self and solitude
must be found; some immediate excitement must engross the thoughts;
and the very phase of evil against which conscience is vainly
protesting has at the same time the most dangerous fascination.

So Lottie escaped from her own self-reproaches as a naughty child
runs away from a scolding, and was soon at the parlor entrance with
a noiseless tread, a grace of motion, and a motive that suggested
the lithe panther stealing on its prey. The door was ajar, and
a hasty glance revealed that the object of her designs was alone.
Her stealthy manner changed instantly, and she sauntered into the
room with quiet indifference, humming an air from Faust.

"O, you are here!" she exclaimed, as if suddenly  becoming aware
of his presence. "Why do you not take a nap like the others? I hope
you are not troubled by a bad conscience."

"What suggested a bad conscience, Miss Marsden?"

"Your sleeplessness."

"I am glad it was not your own. Why are you not taking a nap? I
thought you started for one."

"So I did, but found I did not want it. But you are not a Yankee
that you must answer my question with another.  What are you reading?
Won't you read it to me?"

"I would rather not read this book to you; but I will any other
that you wish."

"You must learn human nature better, Mr. Hemstead.  Don't you know
that you have said just enough to make me wish that book and no
other? What is it about?"

"I feel sure that it will have no interest for you. It is one of
the latest infidel attacks upon the Bible."

"O, you are afraid to have me read it."

"Yes; but not for the reasons implied in your tone."

"Don't you see that you are taking the very course to awaken my
curiosity, and to make me wish to hear just that book? If you had
said, 'Certainly, I'll read it to you, but you won't like it, for
it's only a dry, heavy book upon a heavy subject,' I would never
have looked into it, but would have asked for something else."

"That would hardly be true, Miss Marsden. Though I regard it as an
evil and dangerous book, it is exceedingly clever, and well written,
and it is quite popular in some circles.  I suppose it has been
sent up to Aunt Marchmont with other new books of note."

"I must certainly read it, since you won't read it to me.  Forbid
a child to do a thing, you know, and you have given the strongest
motive for doing just that thing."

"You are not a child, Miss Marsden."

"What am I, then?"

"I hardly know; but you are capable of realizing one's best ideal,
almost."

"Almost! thank you."

"Perhaps my language is stronger than you realize. The woman who
could answer to my ideal would be nearly perfect."

"And do you think such a paragon would go out among the border
ruffians with you?"

"No, nor anywhere else with me. I was speaking of my ideal."

"You do not expect to marry your ideal, then?"

"I suppose love transfigures the one we love, and that this is the
only way we can ever meet our ideal in this life. But sometimes we
see one who it seems might approach even the ideal of our unbiased
fancy."

"It is well that you admire these exquisite creatures at a distance,"
she said, dryly. "I can't see why men will always be so foolish
as to think pretty women are good women.  But if I am not a child
why may I not read that book?  You intimate that it will not shake
my belief."

"I do not think it would,--at least I hope it would not."

"You are not sure."

"I'm sure it will not shake the Bible. Every age has teemed with
infidel books. Yet God's Word stands to-day as strong and serene
as that mountain yonder, to which the setting sun has given a crown
of light."

"Your figure is pretty, but unfortunate. The sun is indeed  'setting,'
and soon the mountain will lose its crown of light and vanish in
darkness."

"But does it vanish," he asked quickly, "in the transient darkness,
like a cloud tipped with light? Such a cloud is a fit emblem of
this brilliant book, and of multitudes like it that have preceded,
but which, like lurid vapors, have  vanished from men's thought and
memory. Even with my immature mind I can detect that this clever
work is but an airy castle, soon to fall. What infidel book has
ever gained or kept a lasting hold upon the popular heart? Let the
darkness swallow up the mountain there. If we go where it is at
midnight, we shall find it intact, and just as firm as when the
sun is shining upon it. The searching light of every day, from year
to year and age to age, will find it there just the same. The long
night of moral darkness which culminated in the fifteenth century,
though it hid the Bible, did not destroy it. Luther at last found
and brought it out into the broad light of general study and
criticism. For generations it has been assailed on every side, but
it stands in the calm, unchanging strength that yonder mountain
would maintain, were it surrounded by children shooting against it
with arrows. Believe me, I do not fear for the Bible. If all the
light of human knowledge were turned upon it in one burning focus,
its intrinsic truth would only be revealed more clearly; and if
superstition, as in the past, or infidelity, as was the case in
France, creates temporary darkness, the moment that, in the light
of returning reason, men look for the Bible, they find it like a
great solemn mountain, that cannot be moved while the world lasts,
just where God has placed it."

"Mr. Hemstead, don't you know that young gentlemen do not talk to
young ladies as you do to me?"

"You know very well that I am not a society man."

"O, I'm not complaining. I rather like to be talked to as if I
had some brains, and was not a doll. If you are so sure about the
Bible, why do you fear to have me read arguments against it?"

"I am not so sure about you. If I should listen to a plausible story
against you, without knowing you or giving you a fair hearing, I
might come to be prejudiced,--to  believe you very unworthy,--when
the reverse would be true.  So the minds of many, from reading books
of this nature, and not giving the Bible a fair hearing, become
poisoned and prejudiced."

"Then why do you read it?"

"For the same reason that would influence a physician to study a
disease,--not that he may catch it, but that he may understand and
know how to treat it. This book is a mental  and moral disease, and
I do not wish you to run the risk of catching it, though I do not
think it would prove fatal if you did. Your own heart and experience
would probably correct the error of your head. Such books as these
won't answer in times of illness or deep trouble. We turn from
them as instinctively and certainly as we do from noise, glare,
and gayety."

The mountain without was now in the shadow. The early twilight of
the December evening had darkened the wintry landscape; but the
ruddy glow of the hickory fire revealed how beautiful Lottie's face
could be, when composed into womanly truth and thoughtfulness.

"I have never had a serious sorrow or illness, and I wonder  what
I should do if I had?" she queried musingly, as these sombre events,
which sooner or later must come into every life, rose up before
her.

"I know well what you will do when they come, as come they will to
us all," said Hemstead, gently. "As surely as you would cling to
a strong arm were you sinking in deep waters, just so surely you
will turn to the Bible, and to Him who said, 'Let not your heart
be troubled, neither let it be afraid.'"

The truth, if given a hearing, is ever powerful,--the truths of
our own sad experience,--the answering and remedial truth of God.
Unexpectedly and unintentionally on her part, both these phases
of truth had gained the ear of Lottie Marsden. The sorrowful and
suffering days of the future threw back their shadows upon her,
and her heart sank at their prospect; and with the certainty of
intuition she recognized  the answering truth, and felt that she
would indeed be glad to cling to One who had the right and power
to utter such tender, reassuring words as Hemstead had quoted.

Of all spells, that of truth is the strongest. Under it the impulsive
girl buried her face in her hands and, with a quick sob, cried, "O
that I were better!"

Then, springing up, she gave Hemstead a strange, earnest look through
her tears, as if she would read his soul. But she saw only honest
sympathy.

He was about to speak again, but she abruptly left the room.






CHAPTER VIII.

FINDING ONE'S LEVEL.





Lottie met De Forrest on the stairs, and he was about to apologize
for his long sleep, but she rushed by him like a summer gust. A
moment later she burst into her room and startled indolent Bel out
of her last luxurious doze by dropping into a chair by the fire
and indulging in what girls call a "good cry."

"What is the matter?" asked Bel, anxiously.

Lottie's tears were the only answer.

"What has happened?" cried Bel, rising hastily. "Let me call auntie
or Julian."

"If you call either you are no friend of mine," said Lottie,
springing to the door, locking it, and taking the key.

"Why, Lottie, I don't understand--"

"There is no need that you should. Nothing is the matter--only
I'm blue--I've been thinking of awful things.  I was in one of my
moods this afternoon, now I'm in one of my tenses."

"Unusually intense, I should think. I have not seen you so moved
since Tom Wellesly threatened to blow out his brains for you."

"He hadn't any to blow out," snapped Lottie, "or he wouldn't have
thought of doing it for such a girl as I am."

"Well," sighed Bel, who at times was one of Job's  comforters,
"I've heard he has never been the same since."

"I hope he has been wiser, then. How can men be such stupid owls as
to fall in love with me! Can't they see I'm a wicked little heathen?"

"That is just the kind men like," sneered Bel, misanthropically.
"You expect to captivate (and of course you will) this sincere and
saintly young minister. He already thinks that you are by far the
best of our party, and has some of the first symptoms that your
victims usually manifest."

Lottie sprang up, dashed away her tears, and commenced restlessly
pacing the room.

"Bother on the men," she exclaimed. "Why will they be so silly!
The world's a perfect jumble, and we are all lunatics and fools,
crying for what is not good for us, and turning our backs upon
what is. I'm disgusted with everybody,  and myself in particular.
Now if this overgrown student  makes a fool of himself, like the
others, I shall lose faith in mankind, and I know there is nothing
to hope from woman-kind."

"I should think you were having a mood and a tense at the same time
this evening," said Bel, looking with some surprise at her friend.
"What has stirred you up so? Have you and Julian had a quarrel?"

"We shall have plenty more, I foresee," said Lottie, seizing  on
the suggestion to hide the truth. Bel smiled satirically.  All these
harsh words were but the harmless lightnings of a summer gust that
was passing away.

"It's only a lovers' tiff," she thought, "and now the billing  and
cooing are to come."

"O, well," said Bel, soothingly, "you and Julian will soon make
up, and then you and all the world will change for the better."

"We have made up," said Lottie faintly, finding, like many another
sinner in this line, that the first fib requires the second to
cover it up.

"Well, well; get over your mood quickly, for the supper-bell  will
ring in a moment, and you are not ready to come down."

What emergency of life can obliterate from the mind of a pretty
woman the necessity of a toilet? To Bel, Lottie seemed to come to
her senses at once as she sped to her bureau and commenced brushing
her rumpled hair. But the languid maiden was quite startled as
Lottie wheeled  suddenly upon her, declaring, while she brandished
the  hair-brush in the most tragic and impressive manner, "If that
Hemstead makes a fool of himself he may, but he shall do it with
his eyes open; I will not deceive him any more."

Thus conscience, that had been skirmishing all day,  appeared to
gain one point of advantage, and Lottie, having made this virtuous
resolve, gained in mental serenity, while the mirror that reflected
her fair face helped to bring back her complacency.

"Bel," said Lottie, as they were leaving their room, "not a whisper
of all this to any one, as you value my friendship."

But before they reached the supper-room her resolution failed, as
is often the case when one acts from impulse rather than principle.
She found that she could not so lightly throw away Hemstead's good
opinion. She had been  admired, loved, and flattered to her heart's
content, but the respect, esteem, and trust of a sincere, true man
formed a new offering, and it was so attractive that she could not
bring herself to turn from it at once. Then her strong pride cast
its weight into the scale, and she thought: "He talks to me and
treats me as if I were a woman of heart and mind, and I'm going
down to show him I'm a wicked fool. I shall not do it, at least
not now. Little fear but that the disagreeable truth will come out
soon enough."

"But it is wrong to deceive him," whispered conscience.

"Suppose it is," answered the wayward will, "I am all wrong myself
and always have been."

"You promised to show him your real self," still urged conscience.

"Well, I will, some other time."

With conscience thwarted and unsatisfied, serenity  vanished
again, and instead of being reckless and trivial at the table, as
she intended, she was rather silent, and a trifle sullen, as one
often is even when vexed with one's self.

Hemstead was expecting a subdued and thoughtful young lady to appear,
whose pensive manner would indicate a nature softened and receptive.
While her bearing was not what he anticipated, it was somewhat
akin, and showed, he thought, that the truth was not without effect.

De Forrest was still more puzzled; but soon concluded that Lottie
was provoked that he had slept so long instead of devoting himself
to her. True, she had just come from the parlor, where he found
Hemstead standing by the  window, looking out into the gloom,
but she had found him, no doubt, so heavy and stupid that she had
rushed to her room in a fit of vexation. This theory was entirely
reconcilable with his vanity, and therefore conclusive; and he tried
to make amends by excessive gallantry, which only annoyed Lottie.
This he ascribed to her resentment for his neglect, and only
redoubled his unwelcome attentions.

While Hemstead's heart was in a tumult of joy and  thankfulness
that so early in his acquaintance, and so unexpectedly, he had been
able to speak to her as he wished and with such seeming effectiveness,
he had the good taste and tact to indicate by no words or sign that
anything unusual had occurred between them. He sought to draw the
others, and even De Forrest, into general conversation, so that
Lottie might be left more to herself.

With a mingled smile and frown, she recognized his purpose,  and
with a reckless laugh in her own soul, thought; "He imagines I am
near conversion, when I never felt so wicked before in my life."

But catching a glimpse of Bel's surprised face, and seeing that
her abstraction was noted by the others, she speedily rallied, and
assumed the manner that she had maintained throughout the day.

"It is so delightful to see his large gray eyes turn towards me
wistfully and trustingly, that I cannot undeceive him yet"; and so
conscience was dismissed, as history records has been often the case
with some honest old counsellor in a foolish and reckless court.

The prospective sleigh-ride and donation party were the prominent
themes, and they hastened through the meal that they might start
early.

Upon this occasion De Forrest managed to get the seat by Lottie, in
his eagerness to make amends, and Hemstead sat opposite with Bel.
As far as he could gather in the uncertain moonlight, Hemstead
thought that De Forrest's attentions were not particularly welcome,
and, though he scarcely knew why, was glad. He would probably
explain by saying that De Forrest was not worthy of her.

Lottie's periods of depression never lasted long, and again
the frosty air and quick motion set her blood tingling with life.
In order to escape De Forrest's whispered  sentimentalities, she
began to sing. Her naturally good voice had been somewhat injured
by straining at difficult music, under superficial instruction,
instead of thorough training for it, but within a moderate compass,
and in simple music, was sweet and strong.

De Forrest was enthusiastic in his praise of selections that were
beyond her abilities. Though most of the airs were unfamiliar to
Hemstead, he was satisfied that they were incorrect, and certain
that the music was not over good.  Therefore he was silent. This
piqued Lottie, for one of her purposes in the choice of what she
sang was to impress him, from the barbarous West, with the idea of
her superior  culture. At last she said, "I fear you do not like
operatic and classical music very much, Mr. Hemstead?"

"We do not often hear such music very perfectly rendered  in our part
of the West. There are airs from the opera that are very pretty";
and he suggested one that was simple.

The truth began to dawn on the quick-witted girl, but De Forrest
said, patronizingly, "It requires a cultivated taste to appreciate
such music as you were singing, Miss Lottie."

"It is not with the music probably, but my rendering of it, that
Mr. Hemstead finds fault."

"Two of the airs were new to me, and the other I have heard but
seldom," said Hemstead, evasively.

"How about that one?" asked De Forrest.

"Well, in sincerity then, I think Miss Marsden does herself  injustice
by attempting music that would tax the powers of a prima donna."

"The boor!" whispered De Forrest to Lottie.

After a moment she said firmly, "Mr. Hemstead has only said plainly
what you thought, Julian."

"O Miss Lottie--" he began to protest.

"I'm not a fool," she continued, "so please don't waste your breath.
You have heard all the star singers, and know how ridiculously far
beneath them I fall, when I try to sing their music. I think you
might have told me. It would have been truer kindness than your
hollow applause. Why our teachers make us the laughing-stock of
society, by keeping us upon these absurd attempts at music beyond
us, to the exclusion of everything else, is something that I can't
understand. My ear is not over nice, but I have always had a suspicion
that I was executing, in the sense of murder, the difficult arias
that the old weazen-faced Italian professor kept me at till brother
Dan said, in truth, that I was turning into a screech-owl. But no
one, save he and Mr. Hemstead, has been honest enough to tell me
the truth. Thus, on many occasions, I have taxed the politeness of
people to the utmost, no doubt, and been the cause of innumerable
complimentary fibs, like those you have just been guilty of, Julian.
Perhaps, Mr. Hemstead, you think a style of music like this more
suited to my powers "; and she struck into a well-known plantation
song.

"No," said he, laughing, "I think you do yourself still greater
injustice."

"You probably think I cannot sing at all."

"On the contrary, I think you have an unusually good voice. I wish
you would sing that air that you were  humming when you came into
the parlor this afternoon. I liked that, and imagine it is suited
to your voice."

"What was it? O, I remember. An arr from Faust, that Marguerite
sings at her spinning-wheel. I think I can give that pretty decently."

She sang it sweetly, with taste and some power.  Hemstead's
appreciation was hearty, and she knew it was sincere.

"Now that you have done me such good service," she said laughing,
"and shown that mediocrity is my musical position, let us have some
old-fashioned ballads, and all sing them together in sleigh-riding
style."

"Pardon me, Miss Marsden, I assign you to mediocrity in nothing."

"O, no, not you; my own abilities place me there. But come, each
one sing"; and she commenced a ballad, well known to the others,
but not to him.

It sounded very well indeed, only Harcourt's bass was much too
light for the other voices.

"Why don't you sing?" asked Lottie of Hemstead.

"I do not know the air or words."

"Shall we try Old Hundred?" asked De Forrest. "Ahem!  The long
metre doxology.

"Praise God from whom all blessings flow."

Addie and Harcourt joined in laughingly. Bel began with them, but
stopped when she saw that Lottie did not sing.

"Do you believe that 'all blessings flow' from God?" asked Hemstead
of De Forrest.

"I suppose so, according to Old Hundred," he said lightly.

"You don't 'suppose so' at all, Julian. You know it, as we all do,
however we may act," said Lottie, with emphasis.

"With such a belief, I--would at least treat Him with  respect,"
said Hemstead, quietly. "I should be sorry to be under deep
and continued obligations to One toward whom I failed in ordinary
courtesy."

"I knew it was wrong," muttered Bel, "but--"

"I have no such belief," said Harcourt, "so your sharp homily does
not apply to me."

"Where do your blessings come from?" asked Hemstead.

"Well, those I don't get out of my clients, from where this snow
does,--the laws and forces of nature."

"Your faith is like the snow, I think,--very cold."

"If it's cold in winter, it's warm in summer," retorted he,
flippantly; and Addie giggled approvingly, for the reason that it
sounded flippant and smart.

They had now reached the hamlet of Scrub Oaks, in the centre of
which was a small house that seemed bursting with light and noise.
Whenever the door opened it appeared to fly open from a pressure
within.

De Forrest acted as escort to the ladies, while Hemstead accompanied
Harcourt in his effort to find a sheltered place for the horses.
This pleased the young lawyer, and he said, good-naturedly, "Don't
think, Mr. Hemstead, that I do not respect your honest convictions,
and I meant no slur upon them. You take things too seriously."

"I suppose we all ought to make more allowance for what is said in
mere sport and repartee," said Hemstead. "But what to you is law
and force is to me a personal Friend.  You know that there are some
names--like those of mother and wife--that are too sacred for jest."

"Thus people misjudge and misunderstand each other, simply because
they see things from different points of view," replied Harcourt.
"De Forrest provokes me,  however. He has no doubts worthy of the
name, for he reads nothing save the sporting news and fashionable
literature of the day, and yet he likes to give the impression that
he is in with us, who read books and think."

"If you will only read fairly, Mr. Harcourt, I have no fears but
that in time you will think rightly. An honest jury must hear both
sides and have no prejudices."

The young men now sought the rest of the party, who had squeezed
their way into the little parsonage. It was so replete with life and
bustle that it appeared like a social bombshell, with effervescing
human nature as an explosive material, and might burst into fragments
at any moment.






CHAPTER IX.

"THE OTHER SET."





The minister and his wife were scarcely host and hostess on this
occasion, as a self-appointed committee of ladies had taken upon
themselves the duty; but, like all corporations, this committee had
no soul and a very  indefinite body. No one knew just who they were,
or where to find them, and some of the members, in the bewilderment
of unaccustomed official position and honors, seemed to have lost
themselves, and bustled aimlessly all over the house. The more staid
and practical sisters of the  committee were down in the kitchen,
breathlessly setting tables which were almost as speedily cleared
by people whose appetites were as keen as the winter night without.

"I do declare," ejaculated Mrs. Gubling, as one devastating  tableful
rose lingeringly from the repast, and another flock began to gather
in hungry expectancy at the door,--"I do declare, I'm near beat
out. Is this a starvin'  community? At this rate they'll eat up
all there is in the house, and the minister and his wife and babies
into the bargain."

"Well," said Mrs. Rhamm, conveying the last bit of corned beef,
which had been reluctantly left upon the plate as "manners," to a
rather capacious mouth, "if they would eat up some of the babies
it wouldn't be so bad. I don't see why poor ministers will have so
many babies."

"The Lord takes care of 'em. We don't," suggested Mrs. Gubling.

"We all do our part, I s'pose. The worst of it is that it makes it
oncomfortable for a church to give a small salary."

"I wish our church was more uncomfortable then. It's a shame we
give Mr. Dlimm only six hundred. But come, if we don't git another
table set they'll eat us up."

"I'd like to see 'em," said Mrs. Rhamm, with a disdainful sniff.

"Well, you be a bit old and tough," chuckled Mrs.  Gubling.

With the solace of this sally, which seemed true, if not true wit,
these hard-featured mothers in Israel set about their tasks with
the deftness that long experience gives.

At the time De Forrest conveyed the ladies into the hall, the
upstairs members of the committee were buzzing around somewhere
else, for there was no one to receive them. They were gradually
hustled or carried into the parlor or main room, and here Hemstead
and Harcourt found them in characteristic conditions. Addie's and
De Forrest's elegant noses were decidedly retrousses; Bel appeared
both  disgusted and frightened; while Lottie's face wore an expression
of intense and amused curiosity. She was seeing "the other set" to
her heart's content, and all was as new and strange as if she had
visited another land.

Harcourt joined Addie, and they began to whisper satirical  criticisms
on the remarks and manners of those around.  Hemstead's interest
mainly centred in watching Lottie, and in noting the effect of her
contact with plain and uncultured people. He was glad he did not
see the repulsion of a little mind and a narrow nature, as was the
case with most of the others. Though it was evident that she had
no sympathy with them, or for them, there was intelligent interest
and wide-awake curiosity. While the others were incasing  themselves
in exclusive pride, she was eager to investigate and get en rapport
with this new phase of humanity. But trammailed  by her city ideas,
she felt that she could not speak to any one without the formality
of an introduction. But the ice was broken for her unexpectedly.
Feeling her dress pulled, she turned and found a very stout old
lady sitting near her, who asked in a loud whisper, "Been down to
supper yet?"

"No," said Lottie, "I don't wish any."

"I do, but I'm afeard I won't get none. You see I'm big and clumsy
anyway, and now I'm so lame with the rheumatiz that I kin hardly
move."

"It's too bad," said Lottie, pathetically, but with a swift comical
glance at the others.

"Yes, it's kinder orful to be so helpless," said the old woman,
with a complacent sigh, delighted at having a  sympathetic auditor.
"I'm dreadfully afeard I won't git no supper. I'm like the withered
man at the pool of Bethesdy.  Whenever they are ready for another
batch 'while I'm a-comin' another steppeth down before me.'"

"Well, you're not very much withered, that's one comfort to be
thankful for," said Lottie.

"I'd like to be thankful for my supper, if I could only git a
chance," persisted the old woman.

"You shall have a chance. When is the pool troubled?  When shall
we put you in?"

"There! now is the time," said her new acquaintance, dropping her
affected and pious tone, and speaking with sharp eagerness. "See,
one batch is comin' up, and 'nother is going down."

"Mr. Hemstead, will you assist me in escorting this old lady to
the supper-table?"

Hemstead's face was aglow with approval, and he instantly complied,
while the others, understanding Lottie better, were convulsed with
laughter.

It was no easy thing for them unitedly to manage the hobbling
mountain of flesh. When they came to the narrow stairway, matters
were still more serious.

"You shall go first," whispered Lottie to Hemstead, "for if she
should fall on me, good-by, Lottie Marsden."

Hemstead patiently, carefully, and with the utmost  deference,
assisted the helpless creature down the stairs.

"You're as polite to her as if she were a duchess," said Lottie,
in a low tone.

"She is more than a duchess. She is a woman," he replied.

Lottie gave him a quick, pleased look, but said, "Such old-fashioned
chivalry is out of date, Mr. Hemstead."

"He's right, miss," said the old woman, sharply. "I'm not Dutch."

Lottie dropped behind to hide her merriment at this speech, and
Hemstead appeared, with his charge clinging to his arm, at the
kitchen door, which her ample form nearly filled.

"My sakes alive! Auntie Lammer, how did you get down here?" said
Mrs. Gubling. "We hain't ready for you yet."

"No matter," said Mrs. Lammer, "I thank the marcies I've got down
safe, and I'm goin' to stay till I git my supper."

"Can I help you?" asked Lottie, glancing curiously around the room.

They looked with even more curiosity at her; and a strange contrast
she made, in her rich and tasteful costume and rare beauty, with
those plain, middle-aged, hard-working women, and the small, dingy
room.

For a moment they stared at her without reply, then gave each other
a few suggestive nudges; and Mrs. Rhamm was about to speak rather
slightingly, when good-natured Mrs.  Gubling said: "You are very
kind, miss, but you don't look cut out for our work. Besides, my
dear, it's an orful dangerous  place down here. I'm afraid we'll
git eat up ourselves before the evening is over. I'm sure you would
be, if you stayed. I wouldn't mind taking a bite myself"; and the
good woman and her assistants laughed heartily over this standing
joke of the evening, while Auntie Lammer, seeing that Mrs. Gubling
was the leading spirit of the supper-room, quivered in all her vast
proportions with politic and propitious mirth.

All this was inexpressibly funny to Lottie, who had the keenest
sense of the absurd, and with a sign to Hemstead she drew him away,
saying, "This exceeds any play I ever saw. I didn't know people
who were not acting could be so queer and comical."

"Well, Miss Lottie," he said, as they ascended the stairs, "I admit
that humanity everywhere often has its ridiculous side, but I have
been laughed at too much myself to enjoy laughing at others."

"And why should you be laughed at so much?"

"I suppose it is the fate of overgrown, awkward boys, who have a
tendency to blurt out the truth on all occasions."

"Such a tendency as that will always make you trouble, I assure
you."

"It hasn't with you, yet."

"Our acquaintance has been very brief."

"And yet I seem to know you so well! I would not have believed it
possible in one short day."

"I think you are mistaken. But you have ceased to be n stranger
to me. I have remarked before to-day, that I knew you better than
some I have seen from childhood."

"I am happy to say that I wish to conceal nothing."

"Few can say that."

"O, I don't mean that I am better than other people, only that
it's best to appear just what we are. People should be like coin,
worth their face--"

"I was in search of you," interrupted De Forrest, as they stood
talking a moment near the head of the stairs in the hall. "We did
not know but that the sylph you escorted away had made a supper
of Hemstead, with you as a relish.  Have you seen enough of this
bear-garden yet?"

"No, indeed," said Lottie; "I'm just beginning to enjoy myself."

From openly staring at and criticising the party from Mrs.
Marchmont's, the young people began to grow aggressive, and, from
class prejudices, were inclined to be hostile.  There were whispered
consultations, and finally one habitue of the store and tavern
thought he could cover himself with glory by a trick, and at the
same time secure a kiss from Lottie, the prettiest. The conspiracy
was soon formed. A kissing game in one of the upper rooms was
suspended for a moment, and one of the tall girls accompanied him
down as if they were a delegation, and on the principle that in
designs against a woman a female confederate is always helpful in
disarming suspicion.

He approached Lottie with the best manners he could assume, and
said, "We are having some games upstairs.  Perhaps you would like
to join us. We'd like to have you."

"Do come," added the tall girl; "they are real nice."

"Certainly," said Lottie, who was now ready for another adventure.
"Come; let us all go."

"The others needn't come unless they want to," said the young
man; for he didn't relish the lawyer's presence, whom he knew by
reputation, nor the searching look of the tall stranger whom he
did not know.

"Mr. Hemstead, you and Julian come," said Lottie, and as they
ascended the stairs she studied this new specimen of Scrub Oaks,
who was a loafer of the village as De Forrest was an idler of the
town. They both belonged to the same genus, though the latter would
have resented such a  statement as the foulest insult.

The manners and the smart finery of her new acquaintance  amused
Lottie very much. When they reached the room, they found it full
of whispering, giggling young people.

The tall girl, as instructed, said, "Now let us form a ring with
our hands on this rope."

This having been done, she said, "Now, Mr. Shabb, you must go
inside first"; and then, with a nudge to Lottie, she explained,"
He'll try to hit our hands with his, and if he hits your hands you
will have to go inside the ring."

What else he would do, she left to be disclosed by action.

Then he of the flaming neck-tie and bulging cheek took his place
with a twinkling eye that meant mischief. De Forrest and Hemstead
declined to play, but the latter slipped forward and stood near
Lottie. He was not sure, but dimly remembered seeing this game
before, when it was not played so innocently as the tall girl had
described.

The young rustic made extravagant but purposely vain efforts
to strike the hands of others, and Lottie watched the scene with
laughing curiosity. Suddenly he wheeled round and struck her hands
sharply; and to her horrified surprise it seemed but a second later
that his repulsive face was  almost against her own. But something
came between, and, starting back, she saw the baffled youth imprint
a fervent kiss on the back of Hemstead's hand.

There was a loud laugh at him from those who had  expected to laugh
with him. He swaggered up to Hemstead, and said threateningly,
"What do you mean?"

"What do YOU mean?" asked Lottie, confronting him with blazing
eyes. "It is well this gentleman interposed. If you had succeeded
in your insult I should have had you punished in a way that you
would not soon forget."

"It's only part of the game," muttered he, abashed by her manner.

"Part of the game?"

"Yes," giggled the tall girl, faintly; "it's a kissing game."

"Did you know it was such?" asked Lottie, indignantly, of De Forrest
and Hemstead.

"Indeed I did not," said De Forrest; "and if you say so I'll give
this fellow the flogging, anyway."

"Come right out, and do it now," was the pert response.

"All I can say is, Miss Marsden," explained Hemstead, "that I
suspected something wrong, and took means to  prevent it. How these
nice-looking girls can allow this fellow to kiss them is more than
I can understand."

"No lady would," said Lottie, as she swept disdainfully out; and under
the withering influence of these remarks kissing games languished
the rest of the evening; only young children, and a few of the
coarser-natured ones,  participating. But soon the absurdity of
the whole scene  overcame Lottie, and she laughed till the tears
stood in her eyes.

As they were slowly descending the stairs a faded little woman
said, "I'm glad to see you enjoying yourself, Miss Marchmont. It
was very kind of you and your party to come so far."

"I am not Miss Marchmont," said Lottie, "though I came with her."

"Well, as the minister's wife, I would like her and all her party
to know of our grateful appreciation."

"You thank us beyond our deserts. But are you the minister's wife?
I am glad to make your acquaintance"; and she held out her hand,
which Mrs. Dlimm seemed glad to take.

At this moment there came the cry of an infant from one of the
upper rooms.

"O, there goes my baby," said Mrs. Dlimm; "I thought I heard it
before"; and she was about to hasten on.

"May I not go with you and see the baby?" asked Lottie.

What mother ever refused such a request? In a moment Lottie was
in the one small room in which, on this portentous  occasion, the
three younger children were huddled, the others being old enough
to take part in what, to them, was the greatest excitement of their
lives, thus far.

Lottie looked curiously around, with the quick, appreciative  eye
by which ladies seem to gather accurately at a glance the effect
of a costume and the style and character of an apartment and its
occupants. But she politely, and from a certain innate interest,
gave such attention to the baby as to win the mother's heart. It
was but an ordinary baby, although the fattest and sturdiest member
of a rather pinched household; but Lottie wonderingly saw that to
the faded mother it was a cherub just from heaven.

Lottie could not understand it. A perfumed baby, in lace and
muslin, might be a nice pet if the nurse were always within call;
but the sole care of this chubby-cheeked Moloch, that would sacrifice
its mother as unconsciously and complacently as the plant absorbs
moisture, seemed almost as prosaic and dreadful as being devoured
alive.

"Does no one help you take care of that child?" asked she.

"Well, my husband and the elder children help some."

"Haven't you a nurse for all these children?"

"No, indeed. It's as much as we can do to clothe and feed them."

"Don't you keep any servants at all?"

"Yes, we have a girl in the kitchen, but she's almost as much bother
as she is worth."

"How do you get along?"

"I hardly know--somewhat as the birds do out of doors."

"Are you happy?"

"I've hardly time to think. I think I am, though,--happy as most
people. Some days bright, some days cloudy, and now and then a
storm. That's the way it is with all, I imagine. We all have our
crosses, you know, but by and by all will come right."

"I should be cross enough with all your crosses."

"They might make you patient. The crossest people I know are those
who shun all crosses."

"Now I think of it, I'm inclined to believe that's true," said
Lottie, reflectively. Then she whispered, as she walked softly to
the mother's side, "Baby is going to sleep, isn't it?"

With different expressions they both peered into the  full-moon
face, two features of which, the eyes, were becoming obliterated
by the white, drooping lids. Lottie looked as if she were examining
a zoological specimen. Mrs. Dlimm gazed with a smile of deep content
and tenderness.

The undisturbed rest of the child upon her bosom was a type of her
own mind at that moment. She was nature's child, God's child, and
the babe was hers.

To the true and simple children of nature, who, without thought of
self or the public eye, are quietly doing their duty in their own
little niches, these moments of peace with strange thrills of joy
are constantly coming. If this worn mother could look down upon
the child, and her plain, pale face grow beautiful with spiritual
light, how must the God who inspires all love--who is the source
of tenderness--have regarded her?

The expression of this woman's face puzzled Lottie beyond measure.
It was so incongruous, irreconcilable with the burdens, the weary
cares, and ceaseless toil and anxiety of her lot. It was so out of
keeping with the noisy throng and confused bustle that filled the
house, and it dimly suggested to the proud belle a condition of
mind before undreamt of in her philosophy.

Some new and curious thoughts stole into her heart as she watched
the mother slowly rocking backward and forward, uttering a low,
crooning lullaby,--the gentlest sound that ever falls on mortal
ears. For some reason there came into her soul a sudden loathing
of her own selfishness and callousness.

After the child had been laid in the cradle, she asked, "What did
you mean when you said, 'It will all come right some day'?"

"Well, I suppose I meant that God's little children often get
sorely perplexed with their cares and troubles in this world, but
when we get home and sit down to rest and think it all over, it
will then seem right."

"Home?"

"Yes, home in our Heavenly Father's house. That's the only real
home we have. We only 'stop,' as the Irish say, here and there for
a little while in this world."

"And do you think of heaven as a pleasant home and rest after what
seems to me your very hard life?"

"Certainly. How do you think of it?"

"Well, to tell the truth, I have not thought much about it."

Before Mrs. Dlimm could reply, there came anything but a heavenly
interruption. It was as if Moses and Aaron were within the cool and
shadowy tabernacle, feasting on spiritual manna, and there came a
delegation from the Hebrew camp, clamoring for the "leeks and onions
of Egypt."

Though the congregation often said, "It's a pity Mrs.  Dlimm is
such a meek and quiet little woman," and though the self-appointed
committee of ladies was so large, and the minister himself was
downstairs, yet when the first real  emergency of the evening arose,
the upstairs members of the committee were helpless, and the best
thing Mrs. Gubling, the leading spirit downstairs, could do, was to
"slick up," as she said, and "go tell the parson's wife." But seeing
Mr.  Dlimm on the way, she beckoned him aside with a portentous
nod. He, poor man, heard her tidings with dismay.  He had fallen
into the habit of taking all his difficulties either to the Lord
or to his wife, and in this case he felt that both must come to
his aid.

With Mrs. Gubling he at once hastened to the nursery, and entered
rather abruptly.

Mrs. Dlimm raised her finger impressively, then pointed to the
cradle.

"But, my dear--" began her husband, rather impatiently.

"Hush," said the wife, in a low tone; "whatever's the matter don't
wake the baby, for then I can't do anything."

"Mrs. Dlimm," said Mrs. Gubling, "they've eat up about everything
there is downstairs, 'cept me, and there's three tables yet It's
such a fine night, and the sleighing's so good, that lots more have
come than we expected. I don't know how much money they brought,
but they hain't brought  provisions enough."

"What shall we do?" asked Mr. Dlimm, nervously.

"If it takes the last penny we have in the world," said his wife,
with grave dignity, "no one shall leave our house hungry. You must
step over to the store, Mr. Dlimm, and buy enough to satisfy every
one."

"I feel just as you do, my dear," he said, with the air of one who
sees duty clearly, though it is far from being agree-able. "Just
give me our poor little hoard from your bureau drawer, and I'll go
at once."

Lottie witnessed the scene with mingled amusement and indignation,
and then, her face aglow with a sudden put pose, sped away also.






CHAPTER X

HUMAN NATURE.





The dismal tidings from the lower regions, that the larder had
been stripped and that scarcely even a pie  remained, soon became
an open secret, about which every one was whispering and commenting.
The supperless wore a defrauded and injured air. The eyes of many
who had not left so important a duty to the uncertainties of the
future, but, like Auntie Lammer, had availed themselves of the
first opportunity, now twinkled shrewdly and  complacently. They
had the comfortable consciousness of taking care of themselves. But
the greater number were honestly indignant and ashamed that such
a thing should have happened. This feeling of mortification was
increased when the committee reported but a small sum of money
handed in as yet. The majority were provoked at others, and a few
at themselves, for having brought so little. As the situation became
clearer, all began to act characteristically,  some preparing to
slink away and escape a disagreeable  state of things, and others
putting their heads together in the wish to remedy matters. Some
giggled, and others looked solemn. Some tried to appear resigned,
as if it were a dispensation of Providence, and others snarled
about "them mean Joneses and Rhamms."

Lottie hastily summoned her party together, and told them of the
dire emergency, as Mrs. Gubling had stated it.

"Now," said she, "if you gentlemen have got any wit worth the name,
you must hit on some way of helping the parson out of his scrape,
for I have taken a great interest in him, or rather his wife. She
is the queerest little woman I ever saw. I shouldn't wonder if she
were an angel in disguise."

"As you are undisguised," whispered De Forrest

"O, be still, Julian. That compliment is as delicate as Auntie
Lammer's appetite. But see, some of these mean 'locusts of Egypt,'
after eating their minister out of house and home, are preparing
to go. We must get a collection before a soul leaves the house.
Julian, you lock the back door, and, Mr. Hemstead, you stand by
the front door; and now, Mr. Harcourt, you are a lawyer, and know
how to talk sharply to people: you give these cormorants to understand
what we expect them to do before they leave."

Hemstead obeyed with alacrity; for the effort to help the overburdened
pastor of Scrub Oaks meet the rigors of winter  seemed about to
end in disastrous failure. He had noticed, with satisfaction, that
many of the people shared his regret, and wished to do something,
but through lack of leadership the gathering was about to break
up, each one blaming some one else, and all secretly mortified at
the result.

Harcourt thought a moment, and then, stepping to a position  where
he could be seen through open doors and heard from the upper story,
clapped his hands loudly to secure silence and draw attention to
himself.

"Do you know where your pastor has gone?" he asked.  "He is out
now buying provisions with his own money to feed a crowd who came
here under the false pretence of giving a donation, but, in truth,
seemingly to eat him out of house and home."

Flushes of shame and anger flashed into nearly every face at these
stinging words, but Harcourt continued remorselessly:  "You know
who I am, and I thought I knew something  about you. I had heard
that the people back in the country were large-handed, large-hearted,
and liberal, but we must be mistaken. I think this the quintessence
of meanness,  and if you break up to-night without a big collection
I will publish you throughout the land. I want you to understand
that your minister has nothing to do with what I say.  I speak on
my own responsibility."

"Capital!" whispered Lottie. "That was red-hot shot, and they
deserved it. If that don't drain their pockets, nothing will."

But she was not a little surprised and disgusted, when a Stalwart
young farmer stepped out, and with a face aflamed with anger, said
in harsh emphasis: "I was sorry and ashamed to have this affair end
as it promised to, and was going to come down handsomely myself,
and try to get some others to, but since that sprig of the law has
tried to bully and whip us into doing something, I won't give one
cent I want you to understand, Tom Harcourt, that whatever may be
true of the people back in the country, you, nor no other man, can
drive us with a horsewhip."

The young man's words seemed to meet with general approval, and
there were many confirmatory nods and  responses. They were eager
to find some one to blame, and upon whom they could vent their
vexation; and this aristocratic  young lawyer, whose words had cut
like knives, was like a spark in powder. Many could go away and
half persuade  themselves that if it had not been for him they might
have done something handsome, and even the best-disposed present
were indignant. It seemed that the party would break up, before
the minister returned, in a general tumult.

The young farmer stalked to the front door, and said threateningly
to Hemstead, "Open that door."

"No, don't you do it," whispered Lottie.

He threw the door open wide.

"O, for shame!" she said aloud; "I did not think that of you, Mr.
Hemstead."

Without heeding her he confronted the young farmer and asked, "Do
you believe in fair play?"

"Yes, and fair words, too."

"All right, sir. I listened quietly and politely to you.  Will you
now listen to me? I have not spoken yet."

"O, certainly," said the young farmer, squaring himself and folding
his arms on his ample chest. "Let every dog have his day."

Hemstead then raised his powerful voice, so that it could be heard
all through the house, and yet he spoke quietly and calmly.

"The gentleman who last addressed you now in the spirit of fair play
offers to listen to me. I ask all present, with the same spirit of
candor and politeness, to hear me for a few moments. But the door
is open wide, and if there are any who don't believe in fair play
and a fair hearing all around, they are at liberty to depart at
once."

No one moved. And the young farmer said, with the sternness of his
square face greatly relaxing, "You may shut the door, sir. We will
all listen when spoken to in that style. But we don't want to be
driven like cattle." Then, yielding farther to the influence of
Hemstead's courtesy, he stepped forward and shut the door himself.

"Thank you, sir," said Hemstead, heartily, and then  continued: "I
am a stranger among you, and am here to-night very unexpectedly.
My home is in the West, and, like  yourselves, I belong to that
class who, when they give, give not from their abundance, but out
of their poverty. There has been a mistake here to-night. I think
I understand you better than my friend Mr. Harcourt. From the
pleasantness  of the evening mote are present than you looked for.
There are many young people here who I suspect have come from
a distance, unexpectedly, for the sake of a ride and frolic, and
were not as well prepared as if their households had known of it
before. Long drives and the cold night have caused keen appetites.
When the result became known a few moments ago, I saw that many
felt that it was too bad, and that something ought to be done, and
no one was more decided in the expression of this feeling than the
gentleman who last spoke. All that was needed then, and all that is
needed now, is to consider the matter a moment and then act unitedly.
I ask you as Christian men and women, as humane, kind-hearted
people, to dismiss from your minds all considerations save one,--your
pastor's need. I understand  that he has six little children. A
long, cold winter is before him and his. He is dependent upon you
for the comforts of life. In return, he is serving the deepest and
most sacred needs of your natures, and in his poverty is leading
you to a faith that will enrich you forever. It is not charity that
is asked. A church is a family, and you are only providing for your
own. How could any of you be comfortable this winter if you knew
your minister was pinched and lacking? The Bible says that the
laborer is worthy of his hire. You have only to follow the impulse
of your consciences, your own better natures, and I have no fears.
A few moments ago your pastor had a painful surprise.  You can have
a very agreeable one awaiting him by the time he returns. You can
make his heart glad for months to come, and so make your own glad.
Though I am a stranger, as I said, and a poor man, yet I am willing
to give double what I proposed at first, and if some one will take
up a collection will hand in ten dollars."

"Give me your hand on that," said the young farmer, heartily; "and
there's ten dollars more to keep it  company. When a man talks like
that, I am with him, shoulder to shoulder. Will some one bring me
the dominie's hat?"

One was soon forthcoming.

"And now," said the young man, stepping up to Lottie, "you seem to
take a sight of interest in this matter, miss.  I think you can look
five dollars out of most of the young chaps here. I'll go around
with you, and see that each one comes down as he or she ought. If
anybody ain't got what they'd like to give, I'll lend it to 'em,
and collect it, too," he added, raising his strong, hearty voice.

Thus through Hemstead's words and action the aspect of the skies
changed, and where a desolating storm had  threatened there came
a refreshing shower. What he had said commended itself to so many
that the mean and crotchety found it politic to fall in with the
prevailing spirit.

Amid approving nods, whispered consultations, and the hauling out
of all sorts of queer receptacles for money, the graceful city belle
and the blunt, broad-shouldered farmer started on an expedition
that, to the six little Dlimms, would be more important than one
for the discovery of the North Pole.

"No coppers now!" shouted the young man.

Lottie, fairly bubbling over with fun and enjoyment, was all
graciousness, and with smiles long remembered by some of the rustic
youth, certainly did beguile them into generosity  at which they
wondered ever after.

The result was marvellous, and the crown of the old hat was becoming
a crown of joy indeed to the  impoverished owner, who now had the
promise of some royal good times.

That fast-filling hat meant nourishing beef occasionally, a few
books for the minister's famishing mind, a new dress or two for
the wife, and a warm suit for the children all round.

No one was permitted to escape, and in justice it could now be said
that few wished to, for all began to enjoy the luxury of doing a
good and generous deed.

When they had been to nearly all, Lottie said to her now beaming
companion, "Go and get Mrs. Dlimm, and seat her in the large
rocking-chair in the parlor."

The poor little woman, having witnessed all the earlier scenes from
the stairs with strong and varying feelings, had, during the last
few moments, seen Lottie pass with such a profusion of greenbacks
in her husband's hat that in a  bewildering sense of joy and
gratitude she had fled to the little nursery sanctuary, and when
found by some of the ladies was crying over the baby in the odd
contradictoriness of feminine action. She was hardly given time to
wipe her eyes before she was escorted on the arm of the now gallant
farmer, to the chair of state in the parlor.

Then Lottie advanced to make a little speech, but could think of
nothing but the old school-day formula; and so the stately introduction
ended abruptly but most effectively, as follows:

"As a token of our esteem and kindly feeling, and as an expression
of--of--I--we hereby present you with--with the reward of merit";
and she emptied the hat in the lady's lap.

Instead of graceful acknowledgment, and a neatly worded speech in
reply, Mrs. Dlimm burst into tears, and springing up threw her arms
around Lottie's neck and kissed her, while the greenbacks were
scattered round their feet like an emerald shower. Indeed the
grateful little woman, in her impulse, had stepped forward and upon
the money.

The city belle, to her great surprise and vexation, found that some
spring of her own nature had been touched, and that her eyes also
were overflowing. As she looked around deprecatingly, and half-ashamed,
she saw that there was a prospect of a general shower, and that many
of the women were sniffling audibly, and the brusque young farmer
stood near, looking as if he could more easily hold a span of
run-away horses than he could hold in himself.

At this moment Hemstead stepped forward, and said: "My friends,
we can learn a lesson from this scene, for it is true to our best
nature, and very suggestive. Your pastor's wife standing there
upon your gift that she may kiss the giver (for in this instance
Miss Marsden but represents you and your feeling and action) is
a beautiful proof that we value more and are more blessed by the
spirit of kindness which prompts the gift than by the gift itself.
See, she puts her foot on the gift, but takes the giver to her heart.
The needs of the heart--the soul--are ever greater than those of
the body, therefore she acknowledges your kindness first, because
with that you have supplied her chief need. She does not undervalue
your gift, but values your kindness more. Hereafter, as you supply
the temporal need of your pastor, as I believe you ever will, let
all be provided with the same honest kindness and sympathy. Let
us also all learn, from this lady's action, to think of the Divine
Giver of all good before his best earthly gifts."

Mrs. Dlimm had recovered herself sufficiently by this time to turn
to the people around her and say, with a gentle dignity that would
scarcely have been expected from her: "The gentleman has truly
interpreted to you my very heart.  I do value the kindness more
even than the money which we needed so sorely. Our Christian work
among you will be more full of hope and faith because of this scene,
and therefore more successful."

Then, as from a sudden impulse, she turned and spoke to Hemstead
with quaint earnestness: "You are a stranger, sir, but I perceive
from your noble courtesy and bearing--your power to appreciate and
bring out the best there is in us--that you belong to the royal
family of the Great King.  Your Master will reward you."

Poor Hemstead, who thus far had forgotten himself in his thought
for others, was now suddenly and painfully made conscious of his
own existence, and at once became the most helpless and awkward of
mortals, as he found all eyes turned toward him. He was trying to
escape from the room without stepping on two or three people--to
Lottie's  infinite amusement, though the tears stood in her eyes as
she laughed--when Mrs. Gubling, ignorant of all that had  happened,
appeared from the kitchen, and created a diversion in his favor.

The good woman looked as if pickles had been the only part of the
donation supper in which she had indulged, and in a tone of ancient
vinegar, said, "Them as hasn't eaten had better come and take what
they can git now."

A roar of laughter greeted this rather forbidding invitation.  But,
before any one could reply, Mr. Dlimm, red and breathless from his
exertions, also entered, and with a faint smile and with the best
courtesy he could master under the trying circumstances, added:
"I am sorry any of our friends should have been kept waiting for
supper. If they will now be so kind as to step down, we will do
the best we can for them."

The good man was as puzzled by a louder explosion of mirth as Mrs.
Gubling had been. The stout farmer whispered  something to Lottie,
and then, with an extravagant flourish, offered his arm to Mrs.
Gubling.

"Go 'long with you," she said, giving him a push; but he took her
along with him, while Lottie brought the parson to where his wife
stood surrounded by greenbacks like fallen leaves, which in the
hurry of events had not been picked up. The good man stared at his
wife with her tearful eyes, and Mrs. Gubling stared at the money,
and the people laughed and clapped their hands as only hearty
country people can. Lottie caught the contagion, and laughed with
them till she was ashamed of herself, while the rest of her party,
except Hemstead, laughed at them and the "whole absurd thing," as
they styled it, though Harcourt had a few better thoughts of his
own.

Mrs. Rhamm's lank figure and curious face now appeared from the
kitchen in the desire to solve the mystery of the strange sounds
she heard, and the unheard-of delay in  coming to supper. Lottie's
coadjutor at once pounced upon her, and escorted, or rather dragged
her to where she could see the money. She stared a moment, and
then, being  near-sighted, got down on her knees, that she might
look more closely.

"She is going to pray to it," cried the farmer; and the simple
people, aware of Mrs. Rhamm's devotion to this ancient god, laughed
as if Sydney Smith had launched his wittiest sally.

"Mrs. Gubling," continued the young man, "if you are not chairman
of the committee, you ought to be, for you are the best man of the
lot."

"I'd have you know I'm no man at all. It's no compliment  to tell
a woman she's like a man," interrupted Mrs.  Gubling, sharply.

"Well, you've been a ministering angel to us all, this evening;
you can't deny that; and I now move that you and the dominie be
appointed a committee to count this money and report."

It was carried by acclamation.

"Now, while the iron is hot, I'm going to strike again.  I move
that we raise the dominie's salary to a thousand a year. We all
know, who know anything, that he can't  support his family decently
on six hundred."

In the enthusiasm of the hour this was carried also by those who
at the same time were wondering at themselves and how it all came
about. Strong popular movements are generally surprises, but the
springs of united and generous action are ever within reach, if one
by skill or accident can touch them. Even perverted human nature
is capable of sweet and noble harmonies, if rightly played upon.






CHAPTER XI.

A POSSIBLE TRAGEDY.





While the money was being counted, Lottie led Mrs.  Dlimm into the
hall, and introduced her to  Hemstead, saying, "This is the magician
whose wand has  transformed us all."

"You are the wand then," he said, laughing.

"What is the wand without the magician?" she asked, shyly watching
the effect of her speech.

His quick flush bespoke the sensitive nature that it was becoming
her delight to play upon, but he said: "According  to legends, magic
power was exerted in two ways,--by a magician, as you suggested,
and by ordinary mortals who happened to find a wand or spell or
some potent secret by which they and any one could perform marvels.
Now I assure you that I am the most ordinary of mortals, and without
my wand I could not conjure at all."

Lottie gave him a look at this point which heightened his color,
but he continued: "Miss Marsden, in her generosity, shall not give
to me the credit for events which I trust will add a little sunlight
to your life this winter, Mrs. Dlimm.  It is to be shared chiefly
by herself and that manly young fellow there, who is a member of
your church, I suppose.  It was Miss Marsden who brought us the
tidings of the evil out of which this good has come. She not only
took up the collection with such a grace that no one could resist,
but she suggested the collection in the first place."

"What do you know about my irresistible grace? You haven't given
me anything."

"You will place me in an awkward dilemma if you ask anything, for
I have given you all the money I have with me," he said, laughing.

"Perhaps he would give himself," said simple, innocent Mrs. Dlimm,
who, from Lottie's coquetry and the expression of Hemstead's eyes,
imagined that an understanding or an engagement existed between
them.

Lottie laughed, till the tears came, at Hemstead's blushing  confusion,
but said after a moment, "That would be a graceless request from
me."

"I don't think you would have to ask twice," whispered Mrs. Dlimm.

"Did you ever hear of the man who was given a white elephant?"
asked Lottie, in her ear.

"No, what about him?" said Mrs. Dlimm, simply.

Lottie laughed again, and putting her arm around the little lady
said, aloud:

"Mrs. Dlimm, you and your baby could go right back to the Garden
of Eden, and I rather think Mr. Hemstead could be your escort."

"I trust we are all going to a far better place," she replied,
quickly.

"I fear I'm going the other way," said Lottie, shaking her head. But
she was surprised at the expression of honest trouble and sympathy
that came out upon the face of the pastor's wife.

"Miss Marsden does herself injustice," said Hemstead, quickly.
"You have seen her action. All that I have seen of her accords with
that."

"But you have not known me two days yet altogether," said Lottie.

"No matter. The last time I was in a picture gallery, I spent most
o the time before one painting. I did not require weeks to learn
its character."

"I shall judge you by your action, Miss Marsden," said Mrs. Dlimm,
gratefully. "My creed forbids me to think ill of any one, and my
heart forbids me to think ill of you.  Those tears I saw in your
eyes a short time since became you better than any diamonds you
will ever wear. They were nature's ornaments, and proved that you
were still nature's child,--that you had not in your city life
grown proud, and cold, and false. It is a rare and precious thing
to see outward beauty but the reflex of a more lovely spirit.  Keep
that spirit, my dear, and you will never lose your beauty even though
you grow old and faded as I am. I wish I could see you again, for
your full, sunny life has done me more good than I can tell you."

Again, Lottie's warm heart and impulsive nature betrayed her, and,
before she thought, she exclaimed in sincerity: "I wish I deserved
what you say, and I might be better if I saw more of such people
as you and Mr. Hemstead. If he will drive me over to-morrow, I will
come and see you. I think he will, for I haven't told you that he
is a minister, and would, no doubt, like to talk to your husband."

"I might have known it," said the little woman, stepping forward
and shaking Hemstead's hand most cordially. "I congratulate you,
sir. You have chosen a princely calling,--a royal one, rather,--and
can tread directly in the steps of the Son of God. I predict for
you success,--the success a true minister craves. You have the
promise within you of winning many from evil."

"Believe me," said he, earnestly, "I would rather have that power
than be a king."

"You may well say that, sir," she replied, with a dignity of which
Lottie did not think her capable. "Any common man may have kingly
power, and the meanest have cursed the world with it. But the power
to win men from evil is godlike, and only the godlike have it."

Lottie looked curiously at the object of her practical jest.  The
words of the pastor's wife seemed to have drawn his thoughts away from
the speaker and herself, and fixed them on his future work and its
results. It is in such moments of abstraction--of self-forgetfulness,
when one's mind is dwelling on life's purposes and aims--that the
spirit shines through the face, as through a transparency, and the
true character is seen. Lottie saw Hemstead's face grow so noble
and manly, so free from every trace of the meanness of egotism
and selfishness, that in the depths of her soul she respected him
as she had never any man before.  Instinctively she placed Julian
De Forrest, the rich and elegant idler, beside this earnest man,
self-consecrated to the highest effort, and for the first time her
soul revolted from her cousin with something like disgust.

What she had imagined became real at that moment, and De Forrest
appeared, looking bored and uneasy.

"I have found you at last," he said. "We became so wedged in the
parlor that there was no getting out, but now they have completed
the laborious task of counting a sum that a bank clerk would run
over in two minutes, and it is to be announced with a final flourish
of trumpets. Then the stingy clodhoppers that you have inveigled
into doing something that they will repent of with groanings that
cannot be uttered to-morrow will go home resolving to pinch and save
till they make good what they have given." He then added carelessly
to Mrs. Dlimm, not waiting for an  introduction, "I am surprised
that you and your husband are willing to stay among such a people."

Before she could answer, he said to Lottie, "Are you ready to go
home? Harcourt and Addie say we ought to start at once."

Lottie was provoked at his rudeness, and furtively watched Mrs.
Dlimm's face, to see what impression he made upon her. Indeed her
face was a study for a moment as she measured De Forrest's proportions
with a slow, sweeping glance, which he thought one of admiration.
But, instead of turning contemptuously or resentfully away, her
face was pitiful.

They were now summoned to hear the result, but Lottie found
opportunity to whisper to Mrs. Dlimm, "What do you think of him?"

"I don't know what to think. It is painfully evident that he is
not a man."

Mrs. Dlimm's verdict had a weight with Lottie that she would hardly
have believed possible a few hours before.  There was a quaint
simplicity and sincerity about her, an unworldliness, that gave
her words something of the authority of the other world.

The abstraction that had been on Hemstead's face passed to Lottie's,
and she heard with inattentive ear the young farmer say with hearty
emphasis, "We present you, as an expression of our good-will, with
two hundred and fifty dollars."

She heard, but still did not heed the pastor's grateful reply. De
Forrest whispered to her often, but her brow only contracted at
his interruption to her busy thought.  Suddenly she noted Hemstead's
eye resting on her with a questioning expression. Then with a
seeming effort she came out of her revery, and tried to be her old
self again.

When Mr. Dlimm ceased, the farmer calkd out heartily: "Good for
you, dominie. Now I call for a vote of thanks to the stranger who
showed us a way out of our scrape. I understand that his name is
the Rev. Mr. Hemstead. Also a vote of thanks to such a young lady
as the city doesn't often send us, who, if she will permit a country
compliment, is like the rose, good enough for a king, yet sweet to
all.  I call on both for a speech."

Lottie, blushing and laughing, declared that she was one who believed
"that a woman should keep silence in meeting,"  and requested
Hemstead to answer for both.

"Miss Marsden does not need words," said Hemstead.  "She has a
better kind of eloquence, and speaks to us through good and kindly
deeds. My part in the happy results of this evening is slight. It
is comparatively easy to suggest good and generous action, but it
is harder to  perform. It is one thing to preach, and quite another
to  practise. You have had the hard part,--the practising,--and
yet have done it as if it were not hard, as duty seldom is when
performed in the right spirit j and therefore deserve the greater
credit. If what you have done from generous impulse to-night you
will henceforth do from steady principle,  you will all have cause
to remember this evening gratefully.  That 'it is more blessed to
give than receive' is true, not only because the Bible declares
it, but because human experience proves it."

Loud applause followed these words, and then the farmer said, "Now,
Mr. Harcourt, you are welcome to publish all you have seen at Scrub
Oaks to-night"

At this Harcourt stepped forward and said: "Although not called
on for a speech, I shall make a short one. I have learned a thing
or two this evening. When I make a blunder I am not ashamed to
acknowledge it. Mr. Hemstead and I both wished to bring about the
same thing, only I went about it the wrong way, and he the right.
What I then said as a threat, I now say as a promise. I shall
write for our country paper a report of this meeting, and it will
be greatly to your credit. I take back my former harsh words. I
congratulate you on your action, and commend you for it."

"Give me your hand on that," cried the farmer. "Three cheers for
Tom Harcourt. If you are ever up for office, sir, you may count on
the vote of Scrub Oaks."

Thus, with cheery laughter and mutual good feeling, the eventful
donation party broke up, leaving a happier family in the little
parsonage than had ever dwelt there before.

In a few moments the party from Mrs. Marchmont's were on the road,
though it proved difficult to hold the chilled and spirited horses
long enough for them to get seated.  De Forrest again took his place
by Lottie, but she  determined to make the conversation general.

"I've had a splendid time," she exclaimed, "and am very much obliged
to you, Addie and Mr. Harcourt, for bringing me."

"I'm glad you enjoyed yourself," said Addie, "and hope that you
have now had enough of the 'other set,' as you call them. I don't
see how you can endure them."

"Nor I either," said Bel, "although I suppose we ought to mingle
with them occasionally. But I am tired to death."

"I was disgusted with them from first to last," said De Forrest,--"the
uncouth, ill-bred crew. I couldn't endure to see you, Miss Lottie,
going around with that clodhopper of a farmer, and, worst of all,
how could you touch that great mountain of flesh they called Auntie
Lammer?"

"Many men of many minds," trilled out Lottie; but she thought of
Hemstead's treatment of the poor old creature in contrast.

"Whoa there, steady now," cried Harcourt to the horses; and Hemstead,
though sitting with his back to him, noted that he was too much
engrossed with their management to speak often, even to Addie who
sat beside him.

"Mr. Hemstead said that Auntie Lammer was more than a duchess,"
added Lottie, laughing.

"True, she's a monster. Bat what did Mr. Hemstead call her?"

"He said she was a 'woman,' and was as polite is if paying homage
to universal womanhood."

"I think," said De Forrest, satirically, "that Mr.  Hemstead might
have found a better, if not a larger type of 'universal womanhood'
to whom he could have paid his homage. I was not aware that he
regarded bulk as the most admirable quality in woman. Well, he does
not take a narrow view of the sex. His ideal is large."

"Come, Mr. De Forrest," said Hemstead, "your wit is as heavy as
Mrs. Lammer herself, and she nearly broke my back going down stairs."

"O, pardon me. It was your back that suffered. I thought it was
your heart. How came you to be so  excessively polite then?"

"I think Miss Marsden is indulging in a bit of fun at my expense.
Of course a gentleman ought to be polite to any and every woman,
because she is such. Would it be knightly or manly to bow to a
duchess, and treat some poor obscure woman as if she were scarcely
human? Chivalry,"  continued he, laughing, "devoted itself to woman
in distress, and if ever a woman's soul was burdened, Aunt Lammer's
must be. But how do you account for this, Mr. De Forrest?  It was
Miss Marsden that took pity on the poor creature and summoned me
to her aid. She was more polite and helpful than I."

"I have just said to her that I do not understand how she can do such
things save in the spirit of mischief," he replied, discontentedly.
"It really pained me all the evening to see you in contact with
such people," he added tenderly, aside to Lottie.

"Well, I can understand it," said Hemstead, emphatically.

"I suppose Mr. Hemstead believes in the brotherhood, and therefore
the sisterhood of the race. I was, in his estimation, taking care
of one of my little sisters "; and Lottie's laugh trilled out upon
the still night.

"Whoa now, steady, steady, I tell you," cried Harcourt; and all noted
that at Lottie's shrill laugh the horses sprang into a momentary
gallop.

After a moment Hemstead replied, "You are nearer right than you
think. In weakness, helplessness, and childish ignorance, she was
a little sister."

"Well, so be it. I have had enough of Mrs. Lammer and undeserved
praise. Now all join in the chorus.

"Three fishers--" and she sang the well-known song, and was delighted
when Hemstead, for the first time, let out his rich, musical bass.

But before they had sung through the first stanza,  Harcourt turned
and said, "You must be still, or I can't manage the horses."

In fact, they were going at a tremendous pace, and  Hemstead noted
that Harcourt was nervous and excited. But no one apprehended any
danger.

"How cold and distant the stars seem on a winter evening!"  said
Lottie, after a moment's silence. "It always depresses me to come
out into the night after an evening of gayety and nonsense. There
is a calm majesty about the heavens which makes my frivolity seem
contemptible. The sky to-night reminds me of a serene, cold face
looking at me in silent scorn. How fearfully far off those stars
are; and yet you teach, do you not, Mr. Hemstead, that heaven is
beyond them?"

"But that Limbo," added De Forrest, with a satirical laugh, "is
right at hand in the centre of the earth."

"The real heaven, Miss Marsden," said Hemstead, gently, "is where
there are happy, trusting hearts. Where the locality is I do not
know. As to that nether world, if you know its location you know
more than I do, Mr. De Forrest.  I don't propose to have anything
to do with it. Prisons may be a painful necessity, but we don't
fear them or  propose to go to them. On the same principle we need
not trouble ourselves about God's prison house."

At this moment from an adjacent farm-house, a large dog came bounding
out with clamorous barking. The excited horses were ready at the
slightest provocation to run, and now broke into a furious gallop.
Harcourt sawed on the bits and shouted to them in vain. He was slight
in build, and not very strong. Moreover, he had grown nervous and
chilled and had lost his own self-control, and of course could not
restrain the powerful creatures that were fast passing from mere
excitement into the wild terror which is akin to a panic among men
when once they give way before danger.

"Good God!" exclaimed Harcourt, after a moment; "I can't hold them,
and we are near the top of a long hill with two sharp turnings on
the side of a steep bank, and there's a bridge at the bottom. Whoa!
curse you, whoa!"

But they tore on the more recklessly. Bel and Addie began to scream,
and this increased the fright of the horses.  Hemstead looked
searchingly for a moment at Lottie, and saw with a thrill that her
white face was turned to him and not to De Forrest.

"Is there danger?" she asked, in a low tone.

"Good God!" exclaimed Harcourt again, "I can't hold them."

Hemstead rose instantly, and turning with care in the swaying sleigh
braced himself by planting one foot on the middle of the seat. He
then said quietly, "Will you give me the reins, Mr. Harcourt? I
am well braced and quite strong. Perhaps I can manage them."

Harcourt relinquished the reins instantly.

"Hush!" Hemstead said sternly to Addie and Bel, and they became
quiet,--the weaker minds submitting to the roused and master mind.

Fortunately the trouble had occurred where there was a straight
and level road, and a little of this still remained.  The question
with Hemstead was whether he could get control of the rushing steeds
before they reached the hill.






CHAPTER XII.

MISS MARSDEN ASKS SOMBRE QUESTIONS.





Lottie Marsden, although greatly alarmed by their critical situation,
was naturally too courageous to give way utterly to fear, and not
so terrified but that she could note all Hemstead did; and for
some reason she believed he would be equal to the emergency. His
confidence, moreover, communicated itself to her. She saw that he
did not jerk or saw on the reins at first, but, bracing his large
powerful frame, drew steadily back, and that the horses yielded
somewhat to his masterful grasp.

"Pull," cried Harcourt, excitedly; "you can hold them."

"Yes, jerk their cursed heads off," shouted De Forrest, in a way
that proved his self-control was nearly gone.

"Hush, I tell you!" said Hemstead, in a low tone. "I might break
the lines if I exerted my whole strength. Then where should we be?
I don't wish to put any more strain upon them than I must. See,
they are giving in more and more."

"But the hill is near," said Harcourt.

"You must let me manage in my own way," said  Hemstead. "Not another
sound from any one."

Then in a firm tone, strong but quiet like his grasp upon the reins,
he spoke to the horses. In three minutes more be had them prancing
with many a nervous start, but  completely under his control, down
the first descent of the hill.

"Will you take the reins again?" he said to Harcourt.

"No, hang it all. You are a better horseman than I am."

"Not at all, Mr. Harcourt. I am heavier and stronger than you
probably, and so braced that I had a great advantage.  You had no
purchase on them, and were chilled by long driving."

"Where did you learn to manage horses?" asked Lottie.

"On our Western farm. We had plenty of them. A horse is almost
human: you must be very firm and very kind."

"Is that the way to treat the 'human'?" said Lottie, her bold and
somewhat reckless spirit having so far recovered itself as to enable
her to laugh.

"Yes, for a man, if he attempts to manage at all; but I suppose the
majority of us are managed, if we would only acknowledge it. What
chance has a man with a coaxing, clever woman?"

"Look there," said Harcourt, as they were turning the first sharp
angle in the road to which he had referred.  "Where should we have
been if we had gone round this point at our speed when I held the
reins?"

The steep embankment, with grim rocks protruding from the snow and
with gnarled trunks of trees, was anything but inviting.

"Come, De Forrest," continued Harcourt, "brush up your mathematics.
At what angle, and with what degree of force, should we have swooped
down there on a tangent, when the horses rounded this curve?"

"O-o-h!" exclaimed Lottie, looking shudderingly down the steep
bank, at the bottom of which brawled a swift stream among ice-capped
rocks. "It's just the place for a tragedy. We were talking about
heaven and the other place when the horses started, were we not?
Perhaps we were nearer one or the other of them than we supposed."

"O, hush, Lottie!" cried Bel, still sobbing and trembling; "I wish
we had remained at home."

"I echo that wish most decidedly," muttered De Forrest.  "The whole
evening has been like a nightmare."

"I am sorry my expedition has been a source of wretchedness to
every one," said Lottie, coldly.

"Not every one, I'm sure," said Hemstead. "Certainly not to
me. Besides, your expedition has made a pastor and a whole parish
happy, and I also dimly foresee a seat in Congress for Harcourt as
a result."

"Very dimly indeed," laughed Harcourt. "Still,--now that our necks
are safe, thanks to Mr. Hemstead, I'm glad I went. Human nature lies
on the surface out at Scrub Oaks, and one can learn much about it
in a little while.  Come, little coz, cheer up," he said to Addie,
drawing her closer to him. "See, we are down the hill and across
the bridge. No danger of the horses running up the long hill before
us, and by the time they reach the top they will be glad to go the
rest of the way quietly."

"You had better take the reins again, Mr. Harcourt," said Hemstead.

"O Mr. Hemstead, please drive," cried the ladies, in chorus.

"No," said he; "Mr. Harcourt is as good a driver as I am. It was
only a question of strength before."

"The majority is against me," laughed Harcourt. "I won't drive any
more to-night. You take my place."

"Well, if you all wish it; but there's no need."

"Let me come over, too, and sit between you and Bel," said Addie,
eagerly.

"No, she can sit with Julian," said Lottie, "and I will go to Mr.
Hemstead. He shall not be left alone."

"O Miss Lottie! please forgive me," pleaded De  Forrest; "I did
not mean what I said a moment since."

"Well, I'll forgive you, but shall punish you a little. Stop the
horses again, Mr. Hemstead; that is, if you don't object to my
company."

The horses stopped very suddenly.

"Please don't leave me," said De Forrest.

"It's only carrying out the mischief we plotted, you know," she
whispered.

"Well, I submit on that ground only," he replied  discontentedly,
and with a shade of doubt in his mind. It seemed very strange, even
to him, that Lottie could coolly continue to victimize one who had
just rendered them so great a service. But the truth was, that she,
in her desire to escape from him, had said what she thought would
be apt to quiet his objections without much regard for the truth.
She hardly recognized her own motive for wishing to sit by Hemstead,
beyond that she was grateful, and found him far more interesting
than the egotistical lover, who to-day, for some reason, had proved
himself very wearisome.

"Hemstead heard nothing of this, and was much pleased when Lottie
stepped lightly over and took her place socially at his side.

"It's very kind of you," he said.

"I didn't come out of kindness," she replied, in a low tone for
his ear alone.

"Why then?"

"Because I wanted to."

"I like that reason better still."

"And with good reason. Will you take me again over this awful road
to see Mrs. Dlimm?"

"With great pleasure."

"But it's such a long drive! You will get cold driving."

"O, no! not if you will talk to me so pleasantly."

"I won't promise how I'll talk. In fact I never know what I'll do
when with you. You made me act very silly this afternoon."

"Is a flower silly when it blooms?"

"What do you mean?"

"You wished you were better."

"O, I see; but suppose I would like to remain--for a while at
least--a wicked, little undeveloped bud?"

"You can't. The bud must either bloom or wither."

"O, how dismal! Were you afraid, Mr. Hemstead, when the horses were
running? I was."

"I was anxious. It certainly was a critical moment with that hill
before us."

"How queer that we should have been talking of the future state
just then! Suppose that, instead of sitting here cosily by you, I
were lying on those rocks over there, or floating in that icy stream
bleeding and dead?"

He turned and gave her a surprised look, and she saw the momentary
glitter of a tear in his eye.

"Please do not call up such images," he said.

She was in a strangely excited and reckless mood, and did not
understand herself. Forces that she would be long in comprehending
were at work in her mind.

Partly for the sake of the effect upon him, and partly as the
outgrowth of her strange mood, she continued, in a low tone which
the others could not hear: "If that had happened, where should I
have been now? Just think of it,--my body lying over there in this
wild gorge, and I, myself, going away alone this wintry night.
Where should I have gone? Where should I be now?"

"In paradise, I trust," he replied, bending upon her a searching
look. Either his imagination or her thoughts gave her face a strange
expression as seen in the uncertain moonlight. It suggested the awed
and trembling curiosity with which she might have gone forward to
meet the dread realities of the unknown world. A great pity--an
intense desire to shield and rescue her--filled his soul.

"Miss Marsden," he said, in a tone that thrilled her in connection
with the image called up, "your own words seem to portray you standing
on the brink of a fathomless abyss into which you are looking with
fear and dread."

"You understand me perfectly," she said. "That is just where I stand;
but it is like looking out into one of those Egyptian nights that
swallow up everything, and there is nothing but a great blank of
darkness."

"It must be so," said Hemstead, sighing deeply. "Only the clear
eyes of faith can see across the gulf. But you are a brave girl to
stand and look into the gulf."

"Why should I not look into it?" she asked, in a reckless  tone.
"I've been brought face to face with it to-night, and perhaps shall
soon be again. It's always there. If I had to go over Niagara, I
should want to go with my eyes open."

"But if you were in the rapids above the falls, would you not permit
a strong hand to lift you out? Why should you look down into the
gulf? Why not look up to heaven?  That is 'always there' just as
truly."

"Do you feel sure that you would have gone to heaven if you had
been killed to-night?"

"Yes, perfectly sure."

"You are very good."

"No; but God is."

"A good God ought to prevent such awful things."

"He did, in this case."

"No; you prevented it."

"Suppose the horses had started to run at the top of the hill
instead of where it was level; suppose a line had broken; suppose
the horses had taken the bits in their teeth,--I could not hold two
such powerful animals. Do you not see that many things might have
happened so that no human hand could do anything, and that it would
be easy for an all-powerful Being to so arrange and shape events
that we should either escape or suffer, as He chose, in spite
of all that we could do. I am glad to think that I can never be
independent of Him."

"If it was God's will that they should stop, what was the use of
your doing anything?"

"It is ever God's will that we should do our best in all emergencies.
He will help only those who try to help themselves. He calls us
his children, not his machines.  The point I wish to make is, that
when we do our best, which is always required of us, we are still
dependent upon Him."

"I never had it made so plain before. The fact is, Mr.  Hemstead,
I don't know much about God, and I don't half understand myself.
This day seems like an age. I have had so many strange experiences
since I stood with you in the breakfast-room this morning,--and have
been near, perhaps, still stranger experiences, for which I feel
little prepared,--that I am excited and bewildered. I fear you
think very poorly of me."

"You do often puzzle me very greatly, Miss Marsden," he replied.
"But I think you are prone to do yourself injustice. Still that is
far better than hypocritical seeming.  Whatever your fault is, you
proved to me last night, and most conclusively again this evening,
that you have a kind, generous heart. More than all, you have shown
yourself capable of the noblest things."

Lottie made no reply, but sat silent for some time; and, having
reached the level once more, Hemstead gave his attention to the
horses, till satisfied that they recognized their master and would
give no further trouble.

"Won't you sing again?" he asked.

"Yes, if you will sing with me."

"I would rather listen, but will accept your condition when I can."

She would only sing what he knew, and noted in pleased eurprise
that his musical culture was by no means trifling.

"How could you take time from your grave theological studies for
such a comparatively trifling thing as music?" she asked.

"Some practical knowledge of music is no trifling matter with me,"
he replied. "In view of my prospective field of work, next to
learning to preach, learning to sing is the most important. I shall
have to start the hymns, as a general thing, and often sing them
alone."

"How can you look forward to such a life?"

"I can look forward in grateful gladness. I only wish I were more
worthy of my work."

"Did I not know your sincerity I should say that was affectation."

"Who was it that preached to the 'common people,' and in the obscure
little towns of Palestine eighteen centuries ago? Am I better than
my Master?"

"You are far better than I am. No one has ever talked to me as you
have. I might have been different if they had."

"Miss Marsden," said Hemstead, tarnestly, as they were driving up
the avenue to the Marchmont residence, "when you stood beside me
this morning I pointed you to a world without, whose strange and
marvellous beauty excited your wonder and delight. You seem to
me on the border of a more beautiful world,--the spiritual world
of love and faith in God. If I could only show you that, I should
esteem it the greatest joy of my life."

"That is a world I do not understand; nor am I worthy to enter
it," she said in sudden bitterness, "and I fear I never shall be;
and yet I thank you all the same."

A few moments later they were sitting round the parlor fire,
recounting the experiences of the evening.

Before entering the house Lottie had said, "Let us say nothing about
runaway horses to aunt and uncle, or they may veto future drives."

To Hemstead's surprise Lottie seemed in one of her gayest  moods,
and he was reluctantly compelled to think her sketch of the people
at the donation a little satirical and unfeeling. But while she was
portraying Hemstead as the hero of the occasion, she had the tact
to make no reference to Harcourt. But he generously stated the
whole case,  adding, with a light laugh, that he had learned once
for all that coaxing and wheedling were better than driving.

"Appealing to their better natures, you mean," said Hemstead.

"Yes, that is the way you would put it."

"I think it's the true way."

"Perhaps it is. Human nature has its good side if one can only find
it, but I'm satisfied that it won't drive well."

"I think work among such people the most hopeless and discouraging
thing in the world," said Mrs. Marchmont, yawning.

"It doesn't seem to me so, aunt," said Hemstead. "On the contrary,
are not people situated as they are peculiarly open to good influences?
Next to gospel truth, I think the influence of refined, cultivated
families could do more for the people at Scrub Oaks than anything
else. If they did not alienate the plain people by exclusiveness
and pride, they would soon tone them up and refine away uncouthness
and unconscious vulgarity in manners. Let me give you a practical
instance of this that occurred to-night. I asked a pretty young girl
why she and the little group around her had given up the kissing
games, and she replied that 'Miss Marsden had said that no lady
played such games, and she wouldn't any more.' Young people are
quick and imitative, and I noticed that they watched Miss Marsden
as if she were a revelation to them, and many, no doubt, obtained
ideas of lady-like bearing and manner that were entirely new to
them, but which they will instinctively adopt. I think she would
be surprised if she could foresee how  decided and lasting an
influence this brief visit of one evening will have on many that
were present."

"But refined people of standing cannot meet with such a class
socially," replied his aunt, with emphasis. "Such a mixing up would
soon bring about social anarchy. Lottie is a little peculiar, and
went there as a stranger upon a frolic."

"Now, auntie, that designation 'peculiar' is a very doubtful
compliment."

"I didn't mean it for one, my dear, though I meant no reproach in
it. You get too many compliments as it is.  Frank, like all young,
inexperienced people, has many  impractical ideas, that time will
cure. Young enthusiasts of every age are going to turn the world
upside down, but I note that it goes on very much the same."

"I think evil has turned the world upside down," said Hemstead.
"The wrong side is up now, and it is our duty to turn the right
side back again. We can't carry exclusiveness  beyond this brief
life. Why, then, make it so rigid here? The One who was chief of
all was the friend of all."

"O, well," said Mrs. Marchmont, in some confusion, "we can't expect
to be like Him. Then what is appropriate in one place and age is
not in another."

"No, indeed, Mr. Hemstead," said Lottie, with twinkling eyes. "I'd
have you to understand that the religion  appropriate to our place
and age is one that pleases us."

"I didn't say that, Lottie," said Mrs. Marchmont, with some
irritation.

"Very true, auntie, but I did! and, as far as I can judge, it's
true in New York, whatever may be the case in the country. But come,
we've had supper, and have kept you and uncle up too late already.
Kiss your saucy niece good night; perhaps I'll be better one of
these days."

"If kissing will make you better, come here to me," said Mr. Dimmerly.
"I wouldn't mind doing a little missionary  work of that kind."

"No, indeed," laughed Harcourt; "we'll all turn  missionaries on
those terms."

"Yes," said De Forrest, "I'll promise to be a devoted missionary
all my life."

"There, I said that you would have a religion you liked," retorted
Lottie, pirouetting to the dining-room door. "But I'm too far gone
for any such mild remedies. There's Bel, she's trying to be good.
You may all kiss her"; and, with a look at Hemstead he did not
understand, she vanished.






CHAPTER XIII.

A LOVER QUENCHED.





Bel followed her friend to their room, full of irritable reproaches.
But Lottie puzzled her again, as she had done before that day.
Gayety vanished from the face as light from a clouded landscape,
and with an expression that was even scowling and sullen she sat
brooding before the fire, heeding Bel's complaining words no more
than she would the patter of rain against the window.

Then Bel changed the tune; retaining the same minor key, however.

"I suppose now that you will give up your shameful plot against
Mr. Hemstead, as a matter of course."

"I don't know what I'll do," snapped Lottie.

"Don't know what you'll do! Why, he about the same as saved our
lives this evening."

"He saved his own at the same time."

"Well," said Bel, exasperatingly, "I wish Mr. Hemstead and all who
heard the fine speeches about your 'kind,  generous heart' could
hear you now."

"I wish they could," said Lottie, recklessly. "They couldn't have
a worse opinion of me than I have of myself."

"But what do you intend to do about Mr. Hemstead."

"I don't intend to do anything about him. I half wish I had never
seen him."

"That you can trifle with him after what has happened to-night is
something that I did not think, even of you, Lottie Marsden."

"I haven't said I was going to 'trifle with him.' He's a man you
can't trifle with. The best thing I can do is to let him alone."

"That is just what I think."

"Very well then, go to sleep and be quiet."

"How long are you going to sit 'mooning' there?"

"Till morning, if I wish. Don't bother me."

"After coming so near having your neck broken, you ought to be in
a better frame of mind."

"So had you. Neither breaking my neck nor coming near it will
convert me."

"Well, I hope you will get through your moods and tenses to-day.
You have had more than I ever remember within so short a time."

With this comforting statement Bel left her friend to  herself,
who sat staring into the fire in the most discontented manner.

"'Capable of the noblest things,' indeed," she thought.  "I would
like to know who is capable of meaner things.  And now what do you
intend to do, Lottie Marsden?  Going on with your foolish, childish
jest, after the fun has all faded out of it? If you do, you will
make a fool of yourself instead of him. He is not the man you thought
he was, at all. He is your superior in every respect, save merely
in the ease which comes from living in public instead of seclusion,
and in all his diffidence there has been nothing  so rude and
ill-bred as Julian's treatment of Mrs. Dlimm.  Julian indeed! He's
but a well-dressed little manikin  beside this large-minded man";
and she scowled more darkly than ever at the fire.

"But what shall I do? I can't be such a Christian as Bel is. I would
rather not be one at all. What's more, I cannot bring my mind to
decide to be such a Christian as Mr. Hemstead is. I should have
to change completely, and give up my old self-pleasing and wayward
life, and that seems like giving up life itself. Religion is a
bitter medicine  that I must take some time or other. But the idea
of sobering down at my time of life!"

"But you may not live to see age, Think what a risk you ran to-night,"
urged conscience.

"Well, I must take my chances. A plague on that  Hemstead! I can't
be with him ten minutes but he makes me uncomfortable in doing
wrong. All was going smoothly till he came, and life was one long
frolic. Now he has got my conscience all stirred up so that between
them both I shall have little comfort. I won't go with him to Mrs.
Dlimm's to-morrow. He will talk religion to me all the time, and
I, like a big baby, shall cry, and he will think I am on the eve of
conversion, and perhaps will offer to take me out among the border
ruffians as an inducement. If I want to live my old life, and have
a good time, the less I see of Frank Hemstead the better, for,
somehow or other, when I am with him I can't help seeing that he
is right, and feeling mean in my wrong. I will just carry out my
old resolution, and act as badly as I can. He will then see what
I am, and let me alone."

Having formed this resolution, Lottie slept as sweetly as innocence
itself.

To Hemstead, with his quiet and regular habits, the day had been
long and exciting, and he was exceedingly weary; and yet thoughts
of the brilliant and beautiful girl, who bewildered and fascinated
him, awaking his sympathy at the same time, kept him sleepless till
late. Every scene in which they had been together was lived over
in all its minutiae, and his conclusions were favorable. As he had
said to her, she seemed "capable of the noblest things."

"She never has had a chance," he thought. "She never has given truth
a fair hearing, probably having had slight opportunity to do so.
From the little I have seen and heard, it seems to me that the
rich and fashionable are as neglected--indeed it would appear more
difficult to bring before them the simple and searching gospel of
Christ, than before the very poor."

Hemstead determined that he would be faithful, and would bring
the truth to her attention in every possible way, feeling that if
during this holiday visit he could win such a trophy for the cause
to which he had devoted  himself, it would be an event that would
shed a cheering light down to the very end of his life.

It was a rather significant fact, which did not occur to him, however,
that his zeal and interest were almost entirely concentrated on
Lottie. His cousin Addie, and indeed all the others, seemed equally
in need.

It must be confessed that some sinners are much more interesting
than others, and Hemstead had never met one half so interesting as
Lottie.

And yet his interest in her was natural. He had not reached that
lofty plane from which he could look down with equal sympathy for
all. Do any reach it, in this world?

Lottie had seemed kind to him when others had been cold and slightly
scornful. He had come to see clearly that she was not a Christian,
and that she was not by any means faultless through the graces of
nature. But she had given ample proof that she had a heart which
could be touched, and a mind capable of appreciating and being Moused
by the truth. That her kindness to him was only hollow acting he
never dreamed, and it was well for her that he did not suspect her
falseness, for with all her beauty he would have revolted from her
at once. He could forgive anything sooner than the meanness of
deception. If he discovered the practical joke, it would be a sorry
jest for Lottie, for she would have lost a friend who appeared
able to help her; and he, in his honest indignation, would have
given her a portrait of herself that would have humiliated her
proud spirit in a way that could never be forgotten.

But with the unquenchable hope of youth in his heart, and his
boundless faith in God, he expected that, at no distant day, Lottie's
remarkable beauty would be the index of a truer spiritual loveliness.

But, as is often the case, the morning dispelled the dreams of
the night, to a degree that quite perplexed and disheartened him.
Lottie's greeting in the breakfast-room was not very cordial, and
she seemed to treat him with cool indifference throughout the whole
meal. There was nothing  that the others would note, but something
that he missed himself. Occasionally, she would make a remark that
would cause him to turn toward her with a look of pained surprise,
which both vexed and amused her; but he gave no expression to his
feelings, save that he became grave and silent.

After breakfast Lottie said nothing to him about their visit to
Mrs. Dlimn, from which he expected so much.  Having waited some
time in the parlor, he approached her timidly as she was passing
through the hall, and said, "When would you like to start upon our
proposed visit?"

"O, I forgot to say to you, Mr. Hemstead," she replied rather
carelessly, "that I've changed my mind. It's a very long drive,
and, after all, Mrs. Dlimm is such an utter Stranger to me that I
scarcely care to go."

But, under her indifferent seeming, she was watching keenly to
see how he would take this rebuff. He flushed deeply, but to her
surprise only bowed acquiescence, and turned to the parlor. She
expected that he would  remonstrate, and endeavor to persuade her
to carry out her  agreement. She was accustomed to pleading and
coaxing on the part of young men, to whom, however, she granted
her favors according to her moods and wishes. While she saw that
he was deeply hurt and disappointed, his slightly cold and silent
brow was a different expression of his feeling from what she desired.
She wanted to take the ride, and might have been persuaded into
going, in spite of her  purpose to keep aloof, and she was vexed
with him that he did not urge her as De Forrest would have done.

Therefore the spoiled and capricious beauty went up to her room
more "out of sorts" than ever, and sulkily  resolved that she would
not appear till dinner.

In the mean time Hemstead went to his aunt and  informed her that
he would take the morning train for New York, and would not return
till the following evening.

"Very well, Frank," she replied; "act your pleasure.  Come and go
as you like."

The good lady was entertaining her nephew more from a sense of
duty than anything else. From their difference in tastes he added
little to her enjoyment, and was  sometimes a source of discomfort;
and so would not be missed.

Lottie had a desperately long and dismal time of it.  Either the
book she tried to read was stupid, or there was something wrong
with her. At last she impatiently sent it flying across the room,
and went to the window. The  beautiful winter morning exasperated
her still more.

"Suppose he had talked religion to me," she thought, "he at least
makes it interesting, and anything would have been better than moping
here. What a fool I was, not to go! What a fool I am, anyway! He is
the only one I ever did act towards as a woman might and ought,--even
in jest. He is the only one that ever made me wish I were a true
woman, instead of a vain flirt; and the best thing my wisdom could
devise, after I found out his beneficent power, was to give him a
slap in the face, and shut myself up with a stupid novel. 'Capable
of noble things!' I imagine he has changed his mind this morning.

"Well, what if he has? A plague upon him! I wish he had never come,
or I had stayed in New York. I  foresee that I am going to have an
awfully stupid time here in the country."

Thus she irritably chafed through the long hours. She would not
go downstairs as she wished to, because she had resolved that she
would not. But she half purposed to try and bring about the visit
to Mrs. Dlimm in the afternoon, if possible, and would now go
willingly, if asked.

At the first welcome sound of the dinner-bell she sped downstairs,
and glanced into the parlor, hoping that he might be there, and
that in some way she might still bring about the ride. But she
found only De Forrest yawning over a newspaper, and had to endure
his  sentimental reproaches that she had absented herself so long
from him.

"Come to dinner," was her only and rather prosaic response.

But De Forrest went cheerfully, for dinner was  something that he
could enjoy under any circumstances.

To Lottie's disappointment, Mr. Dimmerly mumbled grace, and still
Hemstead did not appear. For some reason she did not like to ask
where he was, and was provoked at herself because of her hesitancy.
The others, who knew of his departure, supposed she was aware of
it also. At last her curiosity gained the mastery, and she asked
her aunt with an indifference, not so well assumed but that her
color heightened a little, "Where is Mr.  Hemstead?"

"He went down to the city," replied Mrs. Marchmont, carelessly.

The impulsive girl's face showed her disappointment and vexation,
but she saw that quick-eyed Bel was watching her.  She wished her
friend back in New York; and, with partial success, sought to appear
as usual.

"O dear!" she thought; "what shall I do with myself this afternoon?
I can't endure Julian's mooning. I wish Mr. Harcourt was here, so
we could get up some excitement."

Without excitement Lottie was as dull and wretched as all victims
of stimulants, left to their own resources.

But the fates were against her. Harcourt would not be back till
evening, and she did not know when Hemstead would return. Addie and
Bel vanished after dinner, and De Forrest offered to read to her.
She assented, having no better prospect.

She ensconced herself luxuriously under an afghan upon the sofa,
while the persistent lover, feeling that this would be his favored
opportunity, determined to lay close siege to her heart, and win a
definite promise, if possible. For this purpose he chose a romantic
poem, which, at a certain point, had a very tender and love-infused
character. Here he purposed to throw down the book in a melodramatic
manner, and pass from the abstract to reality, and from the third
person to the first. He was more familiar with stage effects than
anything else, and had planned a pretty little scene. As Lottie
reclined upon the sofa, he could very nicely and comfortably kneel,
take her hand, and gracefully explain the condition of his heart;
and she was certainly in a comfortable position to hear.

A man less vain than De Forrest would not have gathered much
encouragement from Lottie's face, for it had a very weary and bored
expression as he commenced the rather stilted and very sentimental
introduction to the "gush" that was to follow.

She divined his purpose as she saw him summoning to his aid all
his rather limited elocutionary powers, and noted how he gave to
every line that verged toward love the  tenderest accent.

But the satirical side-gleam from her eyes, as she watched him, was
anything but responsive or conducive to sentiment; and finally, as
she became satisfied of his object, the smile that flitted across
her face would have quenched the most impetuous declaration as
effectually as a mill-pond might quench a meteor.

But Julian, oblivious of all this, was growing pathetic and emotional;
and if she escaped the scene at all, she must act promptly.

She did so, for in five minutes, to all appearance, she was asleep.

At first, when he glanced up to emphasize a peculiarly touching
line, he thought she had closed her eyes to hide her feelings; but
at last, when he reached the particular and soul-melting climax
that was to prepare the way for his own long-desired crisis, having
given the final lines in a tone that he thought would move a marble
heart, he laid the book down to prepare for action, and the dreadful
truth dawned upon him. She was asleep!

What could he do? To awaken her, and then go forward, would not
answer. People were generally cross when disturbed in their sleep;
and he knew Lottie was no exception. He was deeply mortified and
disappointed.

He got up and stalked tragically and frowningly to the hearth-rug,
and stared at the apparently peaceful sleeper, and then flung
himself out of the room, very much as he was accustomed to when a
spoiled and petulant boy.

After he was gone, Lottie quivered with laughter for a few moments;
then stole away to her room, where she blotted out the weary hour
with sleep unfeigned, until aroused by the supper-bell.






CHAPTER XIV.

LOTTIE A MYSTERIOUS PROBLEM.





After a brief toilet, Lottie came down to tea looking like an
innocent little lamb that any wolf could  beguile and devour. She
smiled on De Forrest so sweetly that the cloud began to pass from
his brow at once.

"Why should I be angry with her?" he thought, "she did not understand
what I was aiming at, and probably supposed that I meant to read
her asleep, and yet I should have thought that the tones of my
voice--Well, well, Lottie has been a little spoiled by too much
devotion.  She has become accustomed to it, and takes it as a matter
of course. When we are married, the devotion must be on the other
side of the house."

"I thought Mr. Hemstead would be back this evening?" she said to
her aunt.

"No, not till to-morrow evening. You seem to miss Frank very much."

Then Lottie was provoked to find herself blushing like a school-girl,
but she said, laughingly, "How penetrating you are, auntie. I do
miss him, in a way you cannot understand."

But the others understood the remark as referring to her regret
that he had escaped from her wiles as the victim of their proposed
jest, and Bel shot a reproachful glance at her. She could not know
that Lottie had said this to throw dust into their eyes, and to
account for her sudden blush, which she could not account for to
herself.

Before supper was over, Harcourt came in with great news, which threw
Addie into a state of feverish  excitement, and greatly interested
all the others.

"Mrs. Byram, her son, and two daughters, have come up for a few days
to take a peep at the country in winter, and enjoy some sleigh-riding.
I met Hal Byram, and drove in with him. Their large house is open
from top to bottom, and full of servants, and to-morrow evening
they are going to give a grand party. There are invitations for
you all.  They expect most of their guests from New York, however."

Even languid Bel brightened at the prospect of so much gayety; and
thoughts of Hemstead and qualms of  conscience vanished for the
time from Lottie's mind. The evening soon passed, with cards and
conjectures as to who would be there, and the day following, with
the bustle of preparation.

"I don't believe Frank will go to such a party," said Addie, as
the three girls and De Forrest were together in the afternoon.

"Let us make him go by all means," said Lottie. "He needn't know
what kind of a party it is, and it will be such fun to watch him.
I should not be surprised if he and Mrs. Byram mutually shocked
each other. We can say merely that we have all been invited out to
a little company, and that it would be rude in him not to accompany
us."

Mrs. Marchmont was asked not to say anything to undeceive Hemstead.

"It will do him good to see a little of the world," said Lottie;
and the lady thought so too.

The others were under the impression that Lottie still purposed
carrying out her practical joke against Hemstead.  At the time
when he had saved them from so much danger the evening before, they
felt that their plot ought to be abandoned, and, as it was, they
had mainly lost their relish for it. Hemstead had not proved so
good a subject for a practical joke as they had expected. But they
felt that if Lottie chose to carry it on, that was her affair, and
if there were any fun in prospect, they would be on hand to enjoy
it. The emotions and virtuous impulses inspired by their moment
of peril had faded almost utterly away, as is usually the case
with this style of repentance. Even Bel was growing indifferent
to Lottie's course. Harcourt, who with all his faults had good and
generous traits, was absent on business, and had partially forgotten
the design against Hemstead, and supposed that anything definite
had been given up on account of the service rendered to them all.

Lottie was drifting. She did not know what would be her action.
The child of impulse, the slave of inclination, with no higher aim
than to enjoy the passing hour, she could not keep a good resolve,
if through some twinges of conscience she made one. She had proposed
to avoid Hemstead, for, while he interested, he also disquieted
her and filled her with self-dissatisfaction.

And yet for this very reason he was fascinating. Other men admired
and flattered her, bowing to her in unvarying and indiscriminating
homage. Hemstead not only admired but respected her for the
good qualities that she had  simulated, and with equal sincerity
recognized faults and failures.  She had been admired all her life,
but respect from a true, good man was a new offering, and, even
though obtained by fraud, was as delightful as it was novel. She
still wished to stand well in his estimation, though why she hardly
knew.  She was now greatly vexed with herself that she had refused
to visit Mrs. Dlimm. She was most anxious that he should return,
in order that she might discover whether he had  become disgusted
with her; for, in the knowledge of her own wrong action, she
unconsciously gave him credit for knowing  more about her than he
did.

She had no definite purpose for the future. Instead of coolly
carrying out a deliberate plot, she was merely  permitting herself
to be carried along by a subtle undercurrent of interest and
inclination, which she did not understand, or trouble herself to
analyze. She had felt a passing interest in gentlemen before, which
had proved but passing. This was no doubt a similar case, with
some peculiar and piquant elements added. A few weeks in New York
after her visit was over, and he would fade from memory, and pass
below the horizon like other stars that had dazzled for a time.
The honest old counsellor, conscience, recklessly snubbed and
dismissed, had retired, with a few plain words, for the time, from
the unequal contest.

She met Hemstead at the door on his return, and held out her hand,
saying cordially, "I'm ever so glad to see you. It seems an age
since you left us."

His face flushed deeply with pleasure at her words and manner.
Expecting an indifferent reception, he had  purposed to be dignified
and reserved himself. And yet her manner on the morning of his
departure had pained him deeply, and disappointed him. It had not
fulfilled the promise of the previous day, and he had again been
sorely perplexed. But his conclusion was partly correct.

"She is resisting the truth. She sees what changes in her gay life
are involved by its acceptance; and therefore shuns coming under
its influence."

What a strange power God has bestowed upon us!  There is some one
that we long to influence and change for the better. That one may
know our wish and purpose, recognize our efforts, but quietly baffle
us by an independent  will that we can no more coerce and control
than by our breath soften into spring warmth a wintry morning.  We
can look pleadingly into some dear one's eyes, clasp his hands and
appeal with even tearful earnestness, and yet he may remain unmoved,
or be but transiently affected.  Though by touch or caress, by
convincing arguments and loving entreaty, we may be unable to shake
the obdurate will, we can gently master it through the intervention
of another. The throne of God seems a long way round to reach
the friend at our side,--for the mother to reach her child in her
arms,--but it usually proves the quickest and most effectual way.
Where before were only resistance and indifference, there come,
in answer to prayer, strange telentings, mysterious longings,
receptivity, and sometimes, in a way that is astonishing, full
acceptance of the truth.

"The wind bloweth where it listeth," were the words of the all-powerful
One, of the beautiful emblem of His own mysterious and transforming
presence.

Again He said, "How much more shall your Heavenly Father give the
Holy Spirit to them that ask him."

Here is a power, a force, an agency, that the materialist cannot
calculate, weigh, or measure, or laugh scornfully out of existence.

As upon a sultry night a breeze comes rustling through the leaves
from unknown realms of space, and cools our throbbing temples, so
the soul is often stirred and moved by impulses heavenward that
are to their subjects as  mysterious as unexpected.

To a certain extent, God gives to the prayerful control of Himself,
as it were, and becomes their willing agent; and when all mysteries
shall be solved, and the record of all lives be truthfully revealed,
it will probably be seen that not those who astonished the world
with their own powers, but those who quietly, through prayer, used
God's power, were the ones who made the world move forward.

While Hemstead would never be a Mystic or a Quietest in his faith,
he still recognized most clearly that human effort would go but
little way in awakening spiritual life, unless seconded by the
Divine power. Therefore in his strong and growing wish that he
might bring the beautiful girl, who seemed like a revelation to
him, into sympathy with the truth that he believed and loved, he
had based no hope on what he alone could do or say.

But her manner on the previous morning had chilled him, and he had
half purposed to be a little distant and indifferent also.

It did not occur to him that he was growing sensitive in regard to
her treatment of himself, as well as of the truth.

He readily assented to Lottie's request that he should accept Mrs.
Byram's invitation, and found a strange pleasure  in her graciousness
and vivacity at the supper-table.

His simple toilet was soon made, and he sought the parlor and a
book to pass the time while waiting for the Others. Lottie was a
veteran at the dressing-table, and by dint of exacting much help
from Bel, and resting  content with nature's bountiful gifts,--that
needed but little enhancing from art,--she, too, was ready considerably
in advance of the others, and, in the full UNdress which society
permits, thought to dazzle the plain Western student, as a preliminary
to other conquests during the evening.

And he was both dazzled and startled as she suddenly stood before
him under the chandelier in all the wealth of her radiant beauty.

Her hair was arranged in a style peculiarly her own, and powdered. A
necklace of pearls sustained a diamond cross that was ablaze with
light upon her white bosom.  Her arms were bare, and her dress
cut as low as fashion would sanction. In momentary triumph she saw
his eye kindle into almost wondering admiration; and yet it was
but momentary, for almost instantly his face began to darken with
disapproval.

She at once surmised the cause; and at first it amused her very
much, as she regarded it as an evidence of his delightful ignorance
of society and ministerial prudishness.

"I gather from your face, Mr. Hemstead, that I am not dressed to
suit your fastidious taste."

"I think you are incurring a great risk in so exposing yourself
this cold night, Miss Marsden."

"That is not all your thought, Mr. Hemstead."

"You are right," he said gravely, and with heightened color.

"But it's the style; and fashion, you know, is a despot with us
ladies."

"And, like all despots, very unreasonable; and wrong at times, I
perceive."

"When you have seen more of society, Mr. Hemstead," she said, a
little patronizingly, "you will modify your views.  Ideas imported
in the Mayflower are scarcely in vogue now."

He was a little nettled by her tone, and said with a tinge of dignity,
"My ideas on this subject were not  imported in the Mayflower. They
are older than the world, and will survive the world."

Lottie became provoked, for she was not one to take criticism of
her personal appearance kindly, and then it was vexatious that the
one whom she chiefly expected to dazzle should at once begin to
find fault; and she said with some irritation, "And what are your
long-lived ideas."

"I fear they would not have much weight with you were I able to
express them plainly. I can only suggest them, but in such a way
that you can understand me in a sentence. I should not like a sister
of mine to appear in company as you are dressed."

Lottie flushed deeply and resentfully, but said, in a frigid tone,
"I think we had better change the subject I consider myself a better
judge of these matters than you are."

He quietly bowed and resumed his book. She shot an angry glance at
him and left the room.

This was a new experience to her,--the very reverse of what she had
anticipated. This was a harsh and discordant break in the honeyed
strains of flattery to which she had always been accustomed, and
it nettled her greatly.  Moreover, the criticism she received had
a delicate point, and touched her to the very quick; and to her it
seemed unjust and uncalled for. What undoubtedly is wrong in itself,
and what to Hemstead, unfamiliar with society and its arbitrary
customs, seemed strangely indelicate, was to her but a  prevailing
mode among the ultra-fashionable, in which class it was her ambition
to shine.

"The great, verdant boor!" she said in her anger, as she paced
restlessly up and down the hall. "What a fool I am to care what he
thinks, with his backwoods ideas! Nor shall I any more. He shall
learn to-night that I belong to a different world."

De Forrest joined her soon and somewhat re-assured her by his
profuse compliments. Not that she valued them as coming from him,
but she felt that he as a society man was giving the verdict of
society in distinction from Hemstead's outlandish ideas. She had
learned from her mother--indeed it was the faith of her childhood,
earliest taught and thoroughly accepted--that the dictum of their
wealthy circle was final authority, from which there was no appeal.

Hemstead suffered in her estimation. She tried to think of him as
uncouth, ill-bred, and so ignorant of fashionable life--which to
her was the only life worth naming--that she could dismiss him from
her mind from that, time forth.  And in her resentment she thought
she could and would.  She was very gracious to De Forrest, and he
in consequence was in superb spirits.

As they gathered in the parlor, before starting, De Forrest looked
Hemstead over critically, and then turned to Lottie and raised his
eye-brows significantly. The answering smile was in harmony with
the exquisite's implied satire. Lottie gave the student another
quick look and saw that he had observed their meaning glances, and
that in consequence his lip had curled slightly; and she flushed
again, partly with anger and vexation.

"Why should his adverse opinion so nettle me? He is nobody," she
thought, as she turned coldly away.

Though Hemstead's manner was quiet and distant, he was conscious
of a strange and unaccountable disappointment and sadness. It was
as if a beautiful picture were becoming blurred before his eyes.
It was more than that,--more than he understood. He had a sense of
personal loss.

He saw and sincerely regretted his cousin Addie's faults; but when
Lottie failed in any respect in fulfilling the fair promise of
their first acquaintance, there was something more than regret.

At first he thought he would remain at home, and not expose himself
to their criticism and possible ridicule; but a. moment later
determined to go and, if possible, thoroughly solve the mystery of
Lottie Marsden's character; for she was more of a mystery now than
ever.






CHAPTER XV.

HEMSTEAD SEES "OUR SET."





They soon reached Mrs. Byram's elegant country which gleamed afar,
ablaze with light. The obsequious footman threw open the door,
and they entered a tropical atmosphere laden with the perfumes of
exotics. Already the music was striking up for the chief feature
of the evening.  Bel reluctantly accepted of Hemstead's escort, as
sh; had no other resource.

"He will be so awkward!" she had said to Lottie, in irritable
protest.

And at first she was quite right, for Hemstead found  himself
anything but at home in the fashionable revel. Bel, in her efforts
to get him into the presence of the lady of the house, that they
might pay their respects, reminded one of a little steam yacht
trying to manage a ship of the line.

Not only were Lottie and De Forrest smiling at the scene, but also
other elegant people, among whom Hemstead towered in proportions
too vast and ill-managed to escape notice; and to Addie her cousin's
lack of ease and grace was worse than a crime.

Bel soon found some city acquaintances, and she and her escort
parted with mutual relief. Hemstead drifted into the hall, where
he would be out of the way of the dancers, but through the open
doors could watch the scene.

And this he did with a curious and observant eye. The party he came
with expected him to be either dazzled and quite carried away by
the scenes of the evening, or else shocked and very solemn over
their dissipation. But he was rather inclined to be philosophical,
and to study this new phase of life. He would see the creme tie la
cremet who only would be present, as he was given to understand.
He would discover if they were made of different clay from the
people of Scrub Oaks. He would breathe the social atmosphere which
to Addie, to his aunt, and even to  Lottie, he was compelled to
fear was as the breath of life.  These were the side issues; but
his chief purpose was to study Lottie herself. He would discover
if she were in truth as good a girl--as full of promise--as he had
been led to believe at first.

Of course he was a predestined "wall-flower" upon such an occasion.
Addie had said to Mrs. Byram, in a tone hard to describe but at
once understood, "A cousin from the West, who is studying for the
ministry"; and Hemstead was immediately classed in the lady's mind
among those poor relations who must be tolerated for the sake of
their connections.

He was a stranger to all, save those he came with, and they soon
completely ignored and forgot him, except Lottie, by whom he was
watched, but so furtively that she seemed as neglectful as the
rest.

It was one of the fashions of the hour--a phase of  etiquette as
ill-bred as the poorest social slang--not to  introduce strangers.
Mrs. Byram and her daughters were nothing if not fashionable, and
in this case the mode served their inclination, and beyond a few
formal words they willingly left their awkward guest to his own
resources.

He could not understand how true courtesy permitted a hostess to
neglect any of her guests, least of all those who from diffidence
or any cause seemed most in need of attention.  Still, in the
present instance, he was glad to be left alone.

The scenes around him had more than the interest of novelty, and
there was much that he enjoyed keenly. The music was good, and
his quick ear kept as perfect time to it as did Lottie's feet. He
thought the square dances were beautiful and perfectly unobjectionable,--a
vast improvement  on many of the rude and often stupid games that
he had seen at the few companies he had attended, and Lottie appeared
the embodiment of grace, as she glided through them.

But when a blast-looking fellow, in whose eye lurked all evil
passions and appetites, whirled her away in a waltz, he again
felt, with indignation, that here was another instance in which
fashion--custom--insolently trampled on divine law and womanly
modesty. He had seen enough of the world to know that Lottie, with
all her faults, was too good to touch the fellow whose embrace she
permitted. Could she--could the others-be ignorant of his character,
when it was indelibly stamped upon his face?

But Hemstead soon noticed that this man's attentions were everywhere
received with marked pleasure, and that Mrs. Byram and her daughters
made much of him as 8 favored guest. In anger he saw how sweetly
Lottie smiled upon him as they were passing near. She caught his
dark look, and, interpreting it to mean something like jealousy,
became more gracious toward her roue-looking attendant, with the
purpose of piquing Hemstead.

A little later Bel came into the hall, leaning upon the arm of a
gentleman. Having requested her escort to get her a glass of water
she was left alone a few moments.  Hemstead immediately joined
her and asked, "Who is that blase-looking man upon whose arm Miss
Marsden is leaning?"

"And upon whom she is also smiling so enchantingly?  He is the beau
of the occasion, and she is the belle."

"Do you know anything about him? I hope his face and manner do him
injustice."

"I fear they do not. I imagine he is even worse than he looks."

"How, then, can he be such a favorite?"

She gave him a quick, comical look, which intimated, "You are from
the back country," but said, "I fear you will think less of society
when I tell you the reasons. I admit that it is very wrong; but
so it is. He has three great attractions:  he is brilliant; he is
fast; he is immensely rich,--therefore society is at his feet."

"O, no; not society, but a certain clique who weigh things in false
balances," said Hemstead, quickly. "How strange it is that people
are ever mistaking their small circle for the world!"

Bel gave him a look of some surprise, and thought, "I half believe
he is looking down upon us with better right than we upon him."

After a moment Hemstead added, "That man there is more than fast.
I should imagine that Harcourt was a little fast, and yet he has
good and noble traits. I could trust him. But treachery is stamped
upon that fellow's face, and the leer of a devil gleams from his
eye. He is not only fast, he is bad. Does Miss Marsden know his
character?"

"She knows what we all do. There are hard stories about him, and,
as you say, he does not look saintly; but however wrong it may be,
Mr. Hemstead, it is still a fact that society will wink at almost
everything when a man is as rich and well connected as he, that
is, as long as a man sins in certain conventional ways and keeps
his name out of the papers."

Here her escort joined her, and they passed on; and Hemstead stood
lowering at the man, the pitch of whose character began to stain
the beautiful girl who, knowing him somewhat, could willingly and
encouragingly remain at his side.

True, he had seen abundant proof that she had a heart, good impulses,
and was capable of noble things, as he had told her; but was she
not also giving 'lira equal proof that the world enthralled her
heart, and that senseless and soulless  fashion, rather than the
will of God, or the instincts of a pure womanly nature, controlled
her will?

He had no small vanity in which to wrap himself while he nursed
a spiteful resentment at slights to himself. It was a tendency of
his nature, and a necessity of his calling, that he should forget
himself for the sake of others. Lottie awoke his sympathy, and he
pitied while he blamed.

But he desponded as to the future, and feared that she would never
fulfil her first beautiful promise. He realized, with a vague sense
of pain, how far apart they were, and in what different worlds they
dwelt. At one time it had seemed as if they might become friends,
and be in accord on the chief questions of life. But now that she
was smiling so approvingly upon a man whose very face proclaimed
him villain, he saw a separation wider and more inexorable than
Hindu caste,--that of character.

And yet with his intense love of beauty it seemed like sacrilege--the
profanation of a beautiful temple--that such a girl as Charlotte
Marsden should permit the associations  of that evening. It was true
that he could find no greater fault with her in respect to dress,
manners, and attendants, than with many others,--not as much as
with his own cousin. But for some reason that did not occur to him
it was peculiarly a source of regret that Lottie should so fall
short of what he believed true and right.

His thoughts gave expression to his face, as in momentary  abstraction
he paced up and down the hall. Suddenly a voice that had grown
strangely familiar in the brief time he had heard it said at his
side, "Why, Mr. Hemstead, you look as if at a funeral. What are
you thinking of?"

Following an impulse of his open nature, he looked directly into
Lottie's face, and replied, "You."

She blushed slight'y, but said with a laugh, "That is frank," but
added, meaningly, "I am surprised you cannot find anything better
to think about."

"I think Mr. Hemstead shows excellent judgment," said Mr. Brently,
the young man whose face had seemed the index of all evil. "Where
could he find anything better to think about?"

"Mr. Hemstead's compliments and yours are very different  affairs.
He means all he says. Mr. Hemstead, permit i ne to introduce to
you Mr. Brently of New York. I wish you could induce him to be a
missionary."

The young rake laughed so heartily at this idea that he did not
notice that Hemstead's acknowledgment was frigidly slight; but
Lottie did.

"How absurdly jealous!" she thought; yet it pleased her that he
was.

"I shall never be good enough to eat, and so cannot be persuaded
to visit the Cannibal Islands in the role of  missionary." Brently
was too pleased with his own poor wit, and too indifferent to
Hemstead, to note that the student did not even look at him.

"I expect that you will lecture me well for all my folly and
wickedness to-morrow," said Lottie, with a laugh.

"You are mistaken, Miss Marsden," Hemstead answered coldly. "I have
neither the right nor the wish to 'lecture' you"; and he turned
away, while she passed on with an unquiet, uncomfortable feeling,
quite unlike her usual careless  disregard of the opinions of
others.

At that moment a gentleman and lady brushed past them on their way
to the drawing-rooms, and he heard Lottie whisper, "There are Mr.
and Miss Martell after all. I feared they were not coming."

A moment later he saw a tall and beautiful girl enter the parlors
upon the arm of a gentleman who was evidently her father. Mrs.
Byram received them with the utmost  deference, and was profuse in
her expressions of pleasure that they had not failed to be present.
Having explained their detention, they moved on through the rooms,
receiving the cordial greetings of many who knew them, and much
attention  from all. They were evidently people of distinction,
and from the first Hemstead had been favorably impressed with their
appearance and bearing.

From the gentleman's erect and vigorous form it would seem that
his hair was prematurely gray. His face indicated intellect and
high-breeding, while the deep-set and thoughtful  eyes, and the
firm lines around his mouth, suggested a man of decided opinions.

The daughter was quite as beautiful as Lottie, only her style was
entirely different. She was tall and willowy in form, while Lottie
was of medium height. Miss Martell was very fair, and her large
blue eyes seemed a trifle cold and expressionless as they rested
on surrounding faces and scenes.  One would hardly suppose that
her pulse was quickened by the gayety and excitement, and it might
even be  suspected that she was not in sympathy with either the
people or their spirit.

And yet all this would only be apparent to a close  observer, for
to the majority she was the embodiment of grace and courtesy, and
as the Lanciers were called soon after her arrival, she permitted
Harcourt to lead her out as his partner.  They took their stations
near the door where Hemstead  was standing at the moment. Lottie and
Mr. Brently stood at the head of the parlor; and Hemstead thought
he had never seen two women more unlike, and yet so beautiful.

While he in his isolation and abstraction was observing them and
others in much the same spirit with which he was accustomed to
haunt art galleries, Harcourt, seeing him so near, unexpectedly
introduced him to Miss Martell, saying good-naturedly: "You have
one topic of mutual interest to talk about, and a rather odd one
for a clergyman and a young lady, and that is--horses. Miss Martell
is one of the best horsewomen of this region, and you, Mr. Hemstead,
managed a span that were beyond me,--saved my neck at the same
time, in all probability."

The young lady at first was simply polite, and greeted him as she
naturally would a stranger casually introduced.  But from something
either in Harcourt's words, or in  Hemstead's appearance as she
gave him closer scrutiny, her eye kindled into interest, and she was
about to speak to him, when the music called her into the graceful
maze of the dance. Hemstead was as much surprised as if a portrait
on the wall had stepped down and made his acquaintance, and in his
embarrassment and confusion was glad that the lady was summoned
away, and he given time to recover himself.

Lottie had noted the introduction, and from her distance it had
seemed that Miss Martell had treated him slightingly, and that she
had not spoken, but had merely recognized him by a slight inclination;
so, acting upon one of her  generous impulses, the moment the first
form was over and there was a brief respite, she went to where he
stood near Miss Martell, and said kindly, but a little patronizingly,
"I'm sorry you do not dance, Mr. Hemstead. You must be having a
stupid time."

He recognized her kindly spirit, and said, with a smile, "A quiet
time, but not a stupid one. As you can  understand, this scene is
a quite novel one to me,--a glimpse into a new and different world."

"And one that you do not approve of, I fear."

"It has its lights and shadows."

Lottie now turned to speak to Miss Martell, and evil-eyed Brently,
her partner, had also been standing near, waiting till Harcourt
should cease to occupy her attention so closely.

The young lady was polite, but not cordial, to Lottie; she did not
vouchsafe a glance to Brently. But he was not easily abashed.

"Miss Martell," he said suavely, "will you honor me for the next
waltz?"

"You must excuse me, sir," she said coldly.

"Well, then, some time during the evening, at your own pleasure,"
he urged.

"You must excuse me, sir," she repeated still more frigidly, scarcely
glancing at him.

"What do you mean?" he asked insolently, at the same time flushing
deeply.

She gave him a cold, quiet look of surprise, and, turning her back
upon him, resumed conversation with Harcourt.  Lottie was a little
indignant and perplexed at this scene; but noted, with a feeling
of disgust, that her partner's face, in his anger, had the look of
a demon.

But her own reception had been too cool to be agreeable, and this,
with the supposed slight to Hemstead, caused Miss Martell to seem
to her, for the time, the embodiment of capricious pride.

Harcourt said, "Brently does not seem to be in your good graces, Miss
Martell; and that is strange, for he is the lion of the evening."

"I can well imagine that he belongs to the cat species," she replied.
"I have no personal grievance against Mr.  Brently, but I do not
consider him a gentleman. My father knows that he is not one, and
that is enough for me."

Harcourt flushed with both pleasure and shame; and as the next
form just then required that he should take his companion's hand,
he did so with a cordial pressure, as he said, "Men would be
better--I should be better--if all young ladies showed your spirit,
Miss Martell."

At the next pause in the dance she said, in a low tone, "Come, let
us have no 'ifs.' Be better anyway."

She detected the dejection which he tried to mask with a light laugh,
as he replied, "I often wish I were, but the world, the flesh, and
the devil are too much for me."'

"Yes, and always will be for you. Who can fight such enemies alone?
Besides, you are reading and thinking in the wrong direction. You
are going out into the desert."

"Well, it's kind of you to care," he said, with a look that deepened
the faint color of her cheeks.

"I am not inhuman," she replied quietly. "Is it a little thing that
a mind should go astray?"

He looked at her earnestly, but made no reply.

Soon after, Lottie saw with surprise, during one of the intervals
between the forms, that Miss Martell turned and spoke freely
and cordially to Hemstead. Her surprise  became something akin to
annoyance, as, at the close, she took his arm and began to walk up
and down the wide hall, evidently becoming deeply interested in his
conversation. She soon shook off moody Brently, who could think of
nothing but the slight he had received, and, taking De Forrest's
arm, also commenced promenading in the hall. She noted, with
satisfaction, that Hemstead was not so occupied with his new and
fascinating acquaintance as to be oblivious of her presence.

Soon after Mr. Martell joined his daughter, and was introduced to
Hemstead; and they went out to supper together.

Lottie managed that she and De Forrest should find seats near them
in a roomy angle, where, being out of the crush, Mr. Martell and
his little party could season Mrs. Byram's sumptuous viands with
Attic salt. And the flavor of their wit and thought was so attractive
that they soon had a group of the most intelligent and cultivated
of the company around them, and Lottie saw that Hemstead, who
had been  neglected by his own party, was becoming appreciated by
the best people present. Miss Martell, with the tact of a perfect
lady, had the power of putting him at his ease and drawing him out.
Hemstead's mind was no stagnant, muddy pool, but a living fountain,
and his thought sparkled as it flowed readily on the congenial topics
that Mr. and Miss Martell introduced. The freshness and originality
of his views seemed to interest them and others greatly; but what
pleased him most was that Lottie, who sat near, was neglecting
her supper and De Forrest's compliments in her attention to the
conversation. Her face showed a quick, discriminating mind, and as
the discussion grew a little warm on a topic of general interest,
he saw from her eager and intelligent face that she had an opinion,
and he had the tact to ask her for it just at the right moment.
Though a little embarrassed at his unexpected question, she expressed
her thought so briefly and brightly that the others were pleased,
and she was at once taken into the circle of their talk, which of
course became more animated and spicy with her piquant words and
manner added. It was evident that she was enjoying this employment
of her brain more than she had that of her feet. The lower pleasure
paled before the higher; and she was grateful to Hemstead for having
drawn her within the charmed circle.

De Forrest did not grieve over Lottie's absorption, as it gave him
more time for the supper-table and champagne; and to the latter he
and a good many others were so devoted that they were hardly their
poor selves the rest of the evening.  In Brently's case it was most
marked after the ladies had retired. He began to talk quite loudly
and boisterously of his slight, and at one time was about to seek
Miss Martell, and demand an explanation, but was prevailed upon by
his friends to be quiet.






CHAPTER XVI.

HOW WOMAN MAKES OR MARS.





In the changes that occurred after leaving the supper-room, Miss
Martell took Harcourt's arm and said in a low tone, "I was glad to
see that you did not take any wine."

"And I am glad you cared to see. But how could I, after your
gentle hint? I know my weakness. If I had indulged in one glass I
might have taken too many, as I am sorry has been the case in more
instances than one to-night."

"You admit, then, that it is a weakness?" she said gently fixing
her eyes, that were no longer cold and expressionless, upon him.

"In truth, I must admit that I have many weaknesses, Miss Martell."

"You certainly possess one element of strength, in that you recognize
them. Knowledge of danger is often the best means of safety. But
how is it that you are so ready to acknowledge weakness of any kind?
I thought that men scoffed at the idea that they could be weak or
in danger from any temptation."

"If they do, they either do not know themselves, or they are not
honest. I do know myself, to my sorrow, and it would seem like
sacrilege to me not to be truthful and sincere with you. And yet
it is when I am with you that I most despise myself."

"How, then, can you endure my presence?" she asked, with a shy,
half-mischievous glance.

He flushed slightly, and tried to disguise a deeper meaning with
a slight laugh, as he said, "If I were shut out of Eden, I should
often be tempted to look over the hedge."

She did not reply at once, nor lift her eyes to his, but the color
deepened upon her cheeks; and if he had seen the expression of her
averted face, his might have appeared more hopeful.

After a moment she turned and said, with a smile, "I think the fact
that you would like to look over the hedge a very promising sign.
It proves that you regret our lost Eden purity, and would like to
possess it again. If you will only let your wishes develop into
right action, instead of looking wistfully over the hedge, you may
be welcomed within the gate of the better Paradise."

He looked at her searchingly, but she again turned away her face,
and would not meet his eye. After a moment, he said, "I do not
think you used the pronoun 'our,' correctly.  There is nothing akin
between my moral state and yours."

"Yes, there is," she replied earnestly. "If you struggle as hard
to do right as I do, you are trying very hard indeed."

With a quick glance of surprise he said, "It has ever seemed to me
that you were developing as naturally and inevitably as a moss-rose."

"Nonsense!" she answered, a little abruptly. "I am as human as
you are. I have doubtless had advantages over you in being more
sheltered and less tempted. But in a world like ours, and with
natures like ours, every one must struggle hard who would live a
good life. Even then we need Divine help."

They had now passed into a large conservatory, where they supposed
they were alone. He took her hand and said, with a manly sincerity
that made his face almost as noble as hers was beautiful: "Miss
Martell, you are holier than I am. You are as much above me as
heaven is above the earth. And yet, because you have not said to
me, 'Stand aside, for I am holier than thou'; because you have made
a claim, which I can scarcely understand, of kindred weakness,--of
like need of effort to do right,--you have given me a little hope
that possibly at some distant day I may find a way out of my doubts
and weaknesses. I should like to be a true and believing man."

"Please do not think that I have it in my heart to say 'Stand aside'
to any one. Such a spirit is most unchristian, and in me would be
most unwarranted. Do not think I meant that when I repulsed Mr.
Brently. He has forfeited every right to the title of gentleman.
I believe he is utterly bad, and he shows no wish to be otherwise;
and I was disgusted by the flattering attentions he received from
those with whom he had no right to associate at all. When will
society get beyond its vulgar worship of wealth! But, Mr.  Harcourt,
please don't talk about a 'possible way out of your doubts and
weaknesses at some distant day.' You paid me the highest compliment
in your power, when you refrained from wine at supper to-night. I
am going to ask a personal favor. Won't you let it alone altogether?
Mr.  Harcourt," she added, her eyes filling with tears, "I cannot
bear to think of a nature like yours becoming a slave to such an
appetite, and it does seem to master those who are naturally the
noblest."

He turned away to hide his own feeling, while she, with clasped
hands, stood looking at him, as his good angel might. When he turned
to her, he spoke calmly, and almost humbly: "I will not protest
too much, Miss Martell.  I will make no loud and absolute promises,
but it seems to me, while I stand here in your presence, I could
not do a mean or ignoble thing again. But in that degree that I
revere you, I distrust myself. But I pledge you my honor, that I
will try to do what you ask, and more."

"You give me just the kind of promise I like best," she said, giving
him her hand with a happy smile. "But I can not tell you how much
I wish you could seek God's help, as simply, as believingly, as I
do."

"Ah, there is the trouble," he replied, in deep dejection.  "My mind
is tossed upon a sea of doubt and uncertainty." Then, as from a
sudden impulse, he said, "But I could worship you. You are the most
beautiful woman here tonight, but instead of making your beauty the
slave of contemptible vanity, and employing it, like Miss Marsden
and others, merely to win flattery and attention, you turn from
all, and forget yourself and your own pleasure, that you may keep
a man that is hardly worth saving from going to the devil. If I
go, after your kindness to-night, it will be because I ought."

Here her father called her from the door. The character of the
entertainment was becoming such that he was anxious to get away.
As they left the conservatory, she said in a low, hasty tone, "I
am not so unselfish as you think; for it would make me very unhappy
if you did not become what you are capable of being."

"Since you care personally what becomes of me, you have given me
a double incentive," he answered eagerly, as they passed out.

As they disappeared, Lottie Marsden stepped out from behind a large
lemon-tree, with an expression upon her face quite as acid as the
unripe fruit that had helped to conceal her. How she came to witness
the scene described  requires some explanation. As they left the
supper-room, she shook De Forrest off for a time, and when Miss
Martell parted from Hemstead, she joined him. After the attention
he had received, she was not in as patronizing a mood as before.

"Are you willing to take a short promenade with such a guy as I
am, Mr. Hemstead?" she asked.

"Yes, if you are willing to link yourself with so much awkwardness."

"I wish I had your grace of mind, Mr. Hemstead."

"You have no occasion to find fault with nature's gifts to you."

"I fear you think I should find much fault with myself, if not with
nature. But I can hardly find fault with you after your kindly tact
in the supper-room. I wanted to join your breezy, sprightly chat,
and you gave me a chance so nicely."

"Because I wished you to join it. It was not a deed of charity,
and you well repaid me. Indeed, I saw so much thought in your face,
that I wanted more of the same kind."

"I think you see more than we give you credit for," she Said,
looking doubtfully at him.

"'We'? who are 'we'? Yes, I am seeing a good deal here to-night.
As you went to see the 'other set' a few evenings ago, I also am
seeing some new phases of character."

"And some new phases in one that you had a pretty good opinion of
that night. I imagine you no longer consider me 'capable of the
noblest things.'"

"I have not changed my mind on that point at all, but--" and here
he hesitated.

"But you are discovering that I am also capable of just the reverse."

He flushed, but said gravely, "You put my thought too strongly,
Miss Marsden. It would be nearer the truth, if you care for ray
opinion at all, to say that I do not understand you."

She also flushed, but said a little coldly, "I am not surprised;
I scarcely understand myself."

"I find you full of puzzling contradictions," he added.

"Since I cannot contradict you, I will seek some fallible creatures
like myself"; and she vanished, leaving him as uncomfortable and
puzzled as ever he had been in his life.

She had scarcely entered the parlor before both De Forrest and
Brently sought her hand for a waltz. The latter had disgusted her
before, and now he was too tipsy for even the willing blindness
of girls like Addie Marchmont, so she escaped with De Forrest, but
soon found that his step was out of tune with the music, or her own
mind so preoccupied that their feet made discord with the notes.
Therefore she led her subservient attendant into the conservatory,
and got rid of him for a time by the following ruse.

"I dropped something in the supper-room. Please find it, and look
till you do."

De Forrest's ideas were too confused for him to ask what she
had lost; and once in the supper-room again, the champagne was so
inviting that he, with Brently and others, finished another bottle.

With thoughts dwelling on Hemstead's words, she strolled to the
farther end of the walk, and around into another aisle, wishing
to be alone for a few moments. It was then that Harcourt and Miss
Martell entered, and before she was aware she heard the uncomplimentary
reference to herself, and understood the significance of the
unexpected scene.

"That is what Mr. Hemstead thinks me capable of," she thought,
with tingling cheeks,--"making my 'beauty the slave of contemptible
vanity,' and employing it merely to win flattery and attention for
myself. You put it very plainly, Mr. Harcourt. I know what is your
opinion of me certainly. I wish I cared as little what Mr. Hemstead
thinks; and why I should care any more I'm sure I don't know. Yes,
I do, too. He's a true, good man, and is the first one that ever
treated me as if I were a true, good woman. But now I have made it
clear to him, as well as to Harcourt and Miss Martell, what I really
am. I knew what Brently was as well as the rest, and yet I smiled
upon him because the others did. By this time both of my most ardent
admirers are tipsy. What is their admiration worth?"

As she entered the parlors she saw at a glance what would be
the character of the remaining hours. The sensuous spirit of wine
would inspire the gayety and intensify the natural excitement of
the occasion. Heretofore she could join in a fashionable revel with
the keenest zest, but she could not to-night. Unconsciously Miss
Martell had given her a stinging rebuke. She had been shown how a
beautiful woman might employ the power of her fascinations to lure
men into purer and nobler life, as Hemstead had suggested the morning
after his arrival. As she remembered that she had used her beauty
only to lure men to her feet, that she might enjoy a momentary
triumph, soon to be forgotten in other conquests, she was already
more than dissatisfied with herself,--an unusual experience with
Lottie Marsden.

She refused half a dozen invitations to dancs, and was about
ascending to the dressing-room, when Harcourt met her in the hall
and said, "I think I had better send De Forrest home. Hemstead will
go with him."

"What is the matter with Julian?"

"Well, they say he mistook a decanter of brandy for wine. At any
rate he is under the table, 'looking for something of yours,' he
says; though what he does not say or does not know. What's more,
we can't get him up, for he says you told him not to leave the
dining-room till he found it. I fear we shall have to use force,
unless you can manage him."

Then with a. burning flush of shame she remembered how, in her wish
to be alone, she had sent him into temptation, instead of trying
to shield and protect, as had Miss Martell in the case of Harcourt,
whose abstemiousness had excited the surprise of more than one.
But without a word she went directly to the supper-room; and there
witnessed a scene that she never forgot.

The elegant De Forrest was crawling about the floor, uttering her
name continually in connection with the most maudlin sentiment,
and averring with many oaths that he would never rise till he had
found what she had lost.

Brently, almost equally drunk, sat near, convulsed with laughter,
saying with silly iteration, "He's looking for Miss Marsden's
heart."

Mrs. Byram and her son stood helplessly by, their manner showing
that their wish to be polite was almost mastered by their disgust.
Hemstead, who was trying to get De Forrest up, had just given a
stern rebuke to one of the giggling waiters as Lottie entered.

It did not take her over a moment to comprehend all.  While her
face was crimson, she acted decidedly and with a. certain dignity.
Going directly to De Forrest she said, "Julian, I have found what
I lost. Get up and come with me."

His habitual deference to her wishes and words served him now. Her
tone and manner were quiet but very firm and positive, and he at
once sought to obey. Hemstead and Harcourt helped him to his feet.

"I am going home, Julian, and wish you to go with me," she continued
in the same tone.

"Certainly (hic) my dear (hic) I'll do anything (hic) in the world
(hic) or anywhere else for you."

A look of intense disgust flitted across her face, but she turned,
and said emphatically to the others: "I am more to blame for this
than he. I sent him here some time since, when I knew, or ought
to have known, that he should have been kept away from temptation.
May I trespass so far upon your kindness as to ask all present to
remain silent in regard to this scene."

"I know little of etiquette," said Hemstead, "but surely any one
would fail utterly in true courtesy, did they not accede to that
request."

"Thank you, Mr. Hemstead," said Lottie, with a look he did not soon
forget. "Will you order the sleigh to the door? Mr. Harcourt, will
you get Mr. De Forrest's hat and coat?"

The door leading into the parlor had been closed and locked as soon
as the trouble commenced, and thus the guests were ignorant of the
disgraceful scene.

"Julian, I wish you to sit quietly here till I return," said Lottie,
in the most decided manner.

He had sense enough left to know that something was wrong, and that
his safest course was to yield to her. So, muttering, maudlin, and
dishevelled, he sat almost helplessly in the chair where he was
placed, with not a trace of his former elegance left.

Lottie looked at him a second, with a strange expression, then,
taking Mrs. Byram aside, asked,

"Will you be so kind as to have the doors of the parlors leading
into the hall closed, as if accidentally, when we pass out?" Adding,
"I think if Mr. Byram can get Mr. Brently to his room now, it would
also be well."

Mrs. Byram commenced many professions of regret, but Lottie merely
said, "I cannot think about it now. I can only act," and she hastened
away to prepare for the drive home.

A moment later De Forrest was steadied through the hall and helped
into the sleigh.

"Shall I sit by him?" asked Harcourt.

"No," said Lottie, in the same decided voice. "I will take care of
him. I was the cause of his trouble, and will not leave him till
he is safely home. You will greatly oblige me if you will remain
with Addie and Bel, and disarm their suspicion and that of others.
Mr. Hemstead will accompany me, and we will send the sleigh back
immediately."

"Miss Marsden," said Harcourt, "you are a noble hearted girl. I
will do whatever you wish."

"Thank you for what you have done. That is all."

"The horses are restless; I will sit with the coachman," said
Hemstead, surmising that Lottie would desire all the seclusion
possible under the circumstances. He was not mistaken, for as
Harcourt retired she said in a low tone, "You are right. I should
be glad to escape now even from your eyes, that are friendly, I
trust."

"Yes," he replied, with an emphasis that did her good,--"most
friendly"; and they drove away through the cold white moonlight and
colder and whiter snow; and to Lottie, with her burdened conscience
and heavy heart, the calm night seemed more than ever like a face
regarding her with cold and silent scorn.






CHAPTER XVII.

MIDNIGHT VIGILS.





There were indeed four strangely assorted characters in that sleigh
as they were carried beyond the sounds of music and gayety, which,
to Hemstead and Lottie Marsden at least, were little less than
mockery. There was the stolid coachman, who, whatever were his
thoughts, had been trained to appear oblivious of everything save
his duty, and to be but an animate part of the "establishment."
He was much like the horses he drove, living his narrow, material
life in the passing hour, knowing little and caring less about the
past or the future.

Hemstead, in contrast, had a mind as ethereal as faith could make
it, and a fancy enriched by wide reading.  Heretofore he had lived
chiefly in the past and future, his studies making him at home
in the one, and his hopes leading him forward into the other. But
now a silent form near him had a strange power to concentrate his
thoughts on the present. The man who had speculated and reasoned
about sinners in the abstract, and who had classified and divided
them up into well-defined shades and degrees, was now sorely puzzled
over two of them, who, in a certain sense, were under his charge.
What was also odd, his deepest sympathy and desire to help did not
appear drawn toward the greater sinner. Indeed, for the tipsy youth
he had hardly a sentiment other than contempt. Broad, impartial
rules of action and feeling seemed perfectly correct in the seminary.
He forgot that he was not carrying them out.  It did not occur to
him that he was like a physician who stepped by the sickest patient
to a better and more promising one. In justice it must be said that
he would have put himself to any personal inconvenience, and have
made any effort in his power, were the question brought to an issue,
in order to work a transformation in De Forrest's character.  But
for some reason it was so perfectly natural to take an absorbing
interest in Lottie's moral state that he never asked himself why
he had not a similar solicitude for Addie or Bel Parton.

Rigid and impartial rules are very well till fallible men come to
apply them to their most fallible fellow-creatures.

Only God can mercifully apply a perfect law to imperfect humanity,
and if He had a "beloved disciple," might not Hemstead have a
favorite sinner?

And an oddly related couple were those two young people whom all
supposed destined for a union, that in the judgment  of friends
would be most fitting, but that in truth would be unnatural and
productive of wretchedness. Though Hemstead's mind dwelt unwaveringly
upon them, he never once looked back during the drive. He would have
seen a strange sight if he had,--a beautiful woman, with a face
looking almost spirit-like in the pale moonlight, with her arm, for
the first time, around a man whom she was beginning in the depths
of her soul almost to loathe. No embrace of affection was that,
but a mechanical act prompted by a stern and remorseful sense of
duty. She shrank from the man whose swaying form she steadied. It
was settled that night in her own soul, as if by a decree of fate,
that she would never marry Julian De Forrest. And yet it was one
of the good traits in her character, that, while she drew back in
shuddering aversion from any dose personal relation  to him, she
at the same time bad generous, regretful pity, and, if she could
be kind to him at a distance, would be a very faithful friend.

But why did her eyes tarn so often and so wistfully up to the tall
great-coated form before her? She did not know.  She did not even
ask herself.

Are we ever guided by reason, will, deliberate choice?  Are there
not often strong half-recognized instincts that sway us more
profoundly, even as the plant unconsciously turns its leaves and
blossoms towards the sun, and sends its roots groping unerringly
to the moisture?

So absorbed was she in looking at the square, burly form before
her, that the sleigh suddenly stopped at Mrs.  Marchmont's door,
and Hemstead looked around and caught her eye. What was more, he
saw her apparently loving embrace of De Forrest. He was not versed
in the conditions of intoxication, nor did he realize that De
Forrest was so far gone as to make the act necessary. But he could
see her blush, even in the moonlight.

Without a word he assisted her oat, but had some difficulty with
De Forrest, who, from the fumes of liquor and the cold air, had
grown very drowsy. But Hemstead's grasp was so strong and masterful,
that while he roused, he also steadied and supported him up the
steps. Lottie said to the coachman, "Mr. De Forrest is not well,
so we came home earlier. You may now return for the others."

The man heard her with a stolid face that might have been mahogany,
but when by himself it relaxed into a grim smile as he chuckled,
"I've seen people have such spells afore; but if you was my darter,
miss, I'd make you give that chap the mitten, 'cause sich bad spells
is wonderful apt to grow on a feller."

Mrs. Marchmont and Mr. Dimmerly had retired, and the rather dull
servant who admitted them was too sleepy to note anything. Lottie
promptly dismissed her, and told her she would wait for the others.

Hemstead saw De Forrest to his room. He had become so stupid that
he did mechanically what was urged, and the student soon left him
sleeping heavily.

But Hemstead's heart was strangely burdened. He had come to the
conclusion that under all Lottie's coquetry and cousinly freedom
with De Forrest she had hidden a real attachment, and that perhaps
an engagement, or at least an understanding, existed between them.
He did not think at the time why this relation should so depress
him. He would probably have explained it by his natural regret that
such a girl should be mismated to such a man. But it might well
have been doubted whether his heart would have become suddenly like
lead, had he discovered that his own cousin was engaged, even to
Brently, however sincere might have been his regret. But he descended
to the parlor with the unselfish purpose and wish to bring her
mind again under the spell of truth, if possible, hoping that the
events of the evening would suggest the need of a better philosophy
than she had learned in the past.

But he would have no little difficulty in maintaining his
disinterestedness and general missionary spirit in the interview
that awaited him.

For a young man but a few years past his majority, with an
impressible nature and a warm heart, to watch through the witching
hour of midnight with a maiden like Lottie Marsden, and all the
time have no other thought than her moral improvement, is perhaps
asking too much of human nature. With the very best intentions and
with the absolute conviction, as he supposed, that the young lady
could only be a subject for his missionary zeal, unconsciously the
beautiful picture she made with the firelight flickering upon her
face, and the snowy opera-cloak thrown around her, stole into his
heart that was large and empty, waiting for an occupant.

"I have drawn a chair close up to the fire," she said, "for you
must be cold after riding on that high seat with the coachman."

"I am not cold, but I thank you all the same."

"You have been kinder to me than I deserved, Mr. Hemstead."

Truly Lottie's gratitude would be a dangerous thing to any man, as
she expressed it then; and the disinterested student was conscious
of a strange thrill at heart. But he said, with a flush of pleasure:
"I do not know that I have.  At any rate friends should not keep
a debit and credit account with each other."

"And can you still feel friendly to me after this evening?"

"Do I look savagely hostile?" he asked smilingly.

"I feared you would despise me. I certainly despise myself."

"From the fact that you so evidently blame yourself I am less
disposed to blame."

"But you rightly think me most worthy of blame."

"Do you honestly care what I think, Miss Marsden? My opinions have
been formed in what must seem a plain and homely world to you, quite
devoid of the elegance and fashion to which you have been accustomed."

"I begin to think it is a better world than mine, and to-night I
am sick of elegance and fashion. Yes, I honestly do care now what
you do think. I have been flattered and lied to all my life, and
you are the first man who ever told me the unvarnished truth."

He rose and paced thoughtfully up and down the room; then looked
dubiously at her. She was so exquisitely beautiful, and seemed
in such a kindly mood, that he was greatly tempted to temporize
and say smooth things, lest he should offend and drive her away.
But conscience whispered, "Now is your opportunity to speak the
'unvarnished truth,' whatever be the consequences"; and conscience
with Hemstead was an imperative martinet. She waited in curious
and quiet expectancy. This sincere and unconventional man was
delightfully odd and interesting to her. She saw the power and
fascination of her beauty upon him, and at the same time perceived
that in his crystal integrity he would give her his honest thought.
She interpreted his hesitancy, and said, "You fear that I shall be
offended?"

"Yes."

"I promise you to listen patiently--yes, gratefully--to the severest
things you can say."

"I may test your promise severely. I am a plain and awkward man.
Will you permit a plain and homely illustration of my thought?"

"I'm in a mood for plain words to-night. They will be in keeping
with the former events of the evening, which were plain enough."

"Well, then, were it possible that I could be the fortunate
possessor of a statue by Phidias, I would not use it as a hat-stand.
If I possessed a painting by Rubens, I would not turn it into a
fire-screen."

He hesitated, as he saw the hot blood mount to her face; but she
said quietly, "Go on. I think I understand you."

He continued in a tone that was as gentle as his words seemed harsh.
"Believe me, I am speaking in kindness, and only because you are
brave enough to give me leave.  As Phidias might embody beauty itself
in marble, so God has bestowed it on you. When I was looking upon
that marvellous scene--that transfigured world--the morning after
my arrival, you appeared and seemed a part of it. Do you remember
what I said then? I have reluctantly thought to-night that you
could wear your coronet of beauty, not Only as a benignant queen,
but as a petty tyrant,--that you could put it to ignoble uses, and
make it a slave to self. It seemed at times that you only sought to
lead men to bow in admiration to you, instead of inspiring them to
stand erect in true manhood, with their faces heavenward. A woman
endowed as you are can always do with a man one of two things:
either fascinate him with her own personality, so that his thought
is only of her; or else through her beauty and words and manner,
that are in keeping, suggest the diviner loveliness of a noble
life and character. I am satisfied that one could not be in Miss
Martell's society without being better, or wishing to be better.
You might have the same influence, and to a greater degree, because
you naturally have more force and quicker sympathies. There is
more magnetism in your nature, and you could understand and help,
if you chose, a wider range of character than she.  I doubt very
much whether Miss Martell could make herself much at home among
the plain country folk that you quite carried by storm the other
evening. God has given you the power and beauty. Will you let me
ask, in the spirit of kindness, not criticism, Are you using these
gifts for Him, or for yourself?"

Lottie's eyes were moist, but her brow was contracted into
a thoughtful frown, as she sat lowering at the fire. After a few
moments' silence, she said, in a tone of bitterness:

"As I feel and see things to-night, I should say, for neither God
nor myself, but solely and expressly for the sake of the Evil One.
What good, what happiness, do all the compliments, all the attention
I ever received, secure to me to-night? I thought I was using all
for my own benefit.  That was my only purpose and aim, but every
flattering thing that I can remember is only a burden to think
of now.  I am the worse for my beauty, as you regard it. I cannot
think of any one that I have made better; but many that I have made
worse. I seem to have been receiving all my life, and yet to-night
I feel as if I had nothing but a burden upon my heart."

Hemstead's words were not reassuring. Indeed, Lottie thought them
a trifle harsh, though spoken so kindly.

"You cannot feel otherwise, Miss Marsden. You have been seeking to
keep and use for yourself what God meant you should use for Him.
You feel very much as you would, did you take a large sum of money,
left in your hands as a sacred trust, and go on a pleasure trip
with it. He has intrusted to you the richest and rarest gifts, and
every day that you have misappropriated them is a burden upon your
conscience. You will feel the same after a long life of adulation,
in which every whim has been gratified. Believe me, Miss Marsden,
it is a very sad thing to come to the end of one's life with no
other possession than a burdened conscience and a heavy, guilty
heart. I long to save you from such a fate. That would be a wretchedly
poor result of a lifetime for one endowed as you are."

"Your words are very severe, Mr. Hemstead," she said in a low tone,
burying her face in her hands.

"Faithful are the wounds of a friend," he replied.

"I never thought I could permit any one to speak to me as you have
done, nor would I endure it from you, did I not recognize something
like sympathy in the voice with which you speak such cutting words.
But I fear they are true, after all. A burdened conscience and a
guilty heart seem all there is of me to-night."

He was about to reverse the picture, and portray in strong and
hopeful terms what she might be, and what she could accomplish,
when the sleigh-bells announced the return of the rest of the party.
She sprang up and said hastily: "I do not wish to meet them to-night,
and so will retire at once. As physician of the 'mind diseased'
you dearly  believe in what is termed the 'heroic treatment.' Your
scalpel is sharp, and you cut deeply. But as proof that I have kept
my word, and am not offended, I give you my hand."

He took it in both of his, but did not speak. She looked up at him
through the tears that still lingered, and was touched to see that
his eyes were as moist as hers. Giving his hand a cordial pressure,
she said as she left him: "You cannot look at me in harsh criticism
through tears of sympathy. Your face is kinder than your words. I
am glad you do not despise me."

Hemstead admitted Harcourt and the young ladies into the shadowy
hall, and then bade them good night. He, too, was in no mood
for Addie's gossip or Bel's satire.  They had also found Harcourt
strangely silent and pre-occupied.

The evident influence of Miss Martell over Harcourt, and their
intimate relations require some explanation. He was an orphan,
and his father had been a friend of Mr. Martell.  During the last
illness of the elder Mr. Harcourt, he had asked his friend to take
some interest in his son, and, when possible, to give him friendly
counsel. To a man like Mr.  Martell such a request was like a sacred
obligation; and he had sought to do more than was asked. He wrote
the young man almost fatherly letters, and often invited him to his
house. Thus it came about that the influence of Mr.  Martell and
his daughter did more to restrain the wayward tendencies of young
Harcourt than all other things combined; and it must be confessed
that the little blue-eyed girl had more influence than the wise
old father. She seemed to take almost a sisterly interest in him,
and occasionally wrote such a sweet little letter that he would
reform his college life for a week thereafter. But he seemed
to have a dash of wild blood that would break out only too often
into indiscretions, the rumors of which filled his kind friend Mr.
Martell with anxiety. But Alice, his daughter ever insisted that
he would "come out all right."

"Tom has a good heart, father," she would say; and so, with woman's
faith, she hoped where her father feared.

If Harcourt could have been continually under their influence
he would undoubtedly have developed into a far better man. But,
between absence at college and the law-school and some travel during
vacations, he saw less and less of them. Alice also was kept very
steadily at school, and during the last two years of her studies
they had missed each other in vacations, and seldom met.

But something more than maidenly modesty and pride made Alice shy
and reserved when with Harcourt. She would think more about him,
but talk less to him than to others when in company. She was a
peculiarly sensitive, diffident girl, and instinctively shrank from
the man who had for her the strongest interest.

On the completion of her studies her father had taken her abroad,
and they had spent two or three years in travel.  The extraordinary
graces of her person were but the reflex of her richly cultivated
mind. Even abroad she had many admirers; but with tact, firmness,
and inimitable grace, she ever sought to prevent false hopes, and
so had fewer offers than an ordinary coquette. But many who soon
learned that they could never establish a dearer relation became
strong friends, and also better men; for Alice Martell seemed to
have the power of evoking all the good there was in a man, and of
putting him under a kind of sacred obligation to be true and manly,
as the result of her acquaintance.  However deep and lasting regret
may have been, no man ever left her presence in harsh and bitter
contempt for the--very name of woman, as too often had been the
case with Lottie Marsden. Those who knew her least said she was
cold, and those who knew her true, womanly heart best wondered at
her continued indifference to every suit. And sometimes she wondered
at herself,--how it was that all the attention she received scarcely
ever quickened her pulse.

But when after long absence she returned and met the friend
and playmate of her childhood--the wayward youth to whom she was
accustomed to give sisterly counsel--her pulse was so strangely
accelerated, and the blood so quick to mount to her face at his
every word and look, that she began to understand herself somewhat.

They had but recently returned to their residence on the banks of
the Hudson; and Harcourt was made a welcome visitor.

Having completed his professional studies, the young man had
succeeded largely to the practice of his deceased father, and was
doing well in a business point of view. He had inherited enough
property to secure a good start in life, but not enough to rob him
of the wholesome stimulus which comes from the need of self-exertion.
He had an acute, active mind. Abundance of intellect and fire
flashed from his dark eyes, and we have seen that he was not without
good and generous traits. But in his spiritual life he had become
materialistic and sceptical. His associates were brilliant, but fast
men; and for him also the wine-cup was gaining dangerous fascination.

Mr. Martell, in the spirit of the most friendly interest, soon
learned these facts after his return, and also the gossip, which
brought a sudden paleness to his daughter's cheek, that he was
engaged, or virtually engaged, to Addie Marchmont.

While Alice therefore was kind, she seemed to avoid him; and he
found it almost impossible to be alone with her.  She had always
dwelt in his mind, more as a cherished ideal, a revered saint,
than as an ordinary flesh-and-blood girl with whom he was fit to
associate, and for a time after her return her manner increased
this impression. He explained the recognized fact that she shunned
his society by thinking that she knew his evil tendencies, and that
to her believing and Christian spirit his faithless and irregular
life was utterly uncongenial. For a short time he had tried to
ignore her opinion and society in reckless indifference; but the
loveliness of her person and character daily grew more fascinating,
and his evil habits lost in power as she gained. For some little
time before Mrs. Byram's company, he had been earnestly wishing
that he could become worthy of at least her esteem and old friendly
regard, not daring to hope for anything more. It never occurred to
him that gossip had coupled his name with his cousin Addie, and
that this fact influenced Miss Martell's manner as well as his
tendencies toward dissipation. He laid it all to the latter cause,
and was beginning to feel that he could live the life of an ascetic,
if this lovely saint would only permit his devotion.

And Alice, so sensitive where he was concerned, thought she
saw a change in him for the better, and in the spirit of womanly
self-sacrifice was resolving to see more of him than was prudent
for her peace of mind, if by so doing she could regain her old
power to advise and restrain.

With gladness she recognized her influence over him at Mrs. Byram's
company, and, as we have seen, made the most of it. But, with
surprise and some strange thrills at heart, she noted that he and
Addie Marchmont did not act as an engaged couple naturally would;
and observed, with disgust, that Miss Marchmont seemed more pleased
with Brently's attentions than Lottie Marsden had been.

That a man of Harcourt's force and mind should be captivated by
such a girl as Miss Marchmont, had been a mystery; and she thought,
when seeing them together in Mrs.  Byram's parlors, "They take it
more coolly than any people I ever saw."

Addle appeared engrossed with the attentions of others, and Harcourt
not in the least jealous or annoyed. In brief, they acted like
cousins, and not in the least like lovers.

But in the sensitive delicacy of her character she would not permit
her mind to dwell on the problem of their relations, and bent all
her thoughts upon her effort to win Harcourt to a better life.

And she had moved him that evening more deeply than she could know.
Neither she, nor any finite power, could plant righteous principle
within his soul and transform his character; but she had created,
for the time at least, an utter distaste for all low and sensual
pleasures, and an honest and absorbing wish to become a true, good
man. He felt that he could not, in her society, and breathing the
pure atmosphere of her life, be his old self.

Never did a man return from a fashionable revel in a more serious
and thoughtful mood, and equally with Lottie and Hemstead he was
glad to escape, from the trifling chat and gossip of Addie and Bel
Parton, to the solitude of his own loom.






CHAPTER XVIII.

HEMSTEAD'S HEAVY GUN AND ITS RECOIL.





The "day after the ball" has its proverbial character, and Saturday
was so long and dismal to several of the revellers that it occurred
to them that their pleasure had been purchased rather dearly. It
seemed an odd coincidence, that those who had been bent on securing
all the pleasure possible, with no other thought, suffered the
most. Bel and Addie could scarcely endure their own company, they
were so weary and stupid; and they yawned through the day, irritable
and dishevelled, for it was too stormy for callers.

De Forrest did not appear until dinner, and then came down moody
and taciturn. The young ladies had heard of his illness the evening
before, with significant glances.  Mrs. Marchmont partly surmised
the truth, but politely ignored the matter, treating it only as a
sudden indisposition; and so the affair was passed over, as such
matters usually are in fashionable life until they reach a stage
too pronounced for polite blindness.

De Forrest but dimly recollected the events of the preceding evening.
He was quite certain, however, that he had been drunk, and had made
a fool of himself.

Though his conscience was not over tender upon this subject, and
though such occurrences were not so exceedingly rare in fashionable
life as to be very shocking, he still had the training and instinct
of a gentleman, to a sufficient degree to feel deep mortification.

If he had become tipsy among those of his own sex, or while off on
a fishing excursion, he would have regarded it as a light matter;
but, even in his eyes, intoxication at an evening company, and
before the girl in whose estimation he most wished to stand well,
was a very serious matter.  He could not remember much after going
a second time to the supper-room in compliance with Lottie's request,
but had a vague impression that she and Hemstead had brought him
home. He was left in torturing uncertainty how far he had disgraced
himself, because it was a subject concerning which he could not bring
himself to make inquiries.  That those he met at the dinner-table
treated him with their usual quiet politeness proved nothing.
Human faces mask more thoughts than are expressed. Hemstead's grave
silence was somewhat significant; but De Forrest cared so little
for his opinion that he scarcely heeded the student's manner.

Lottie Marsden was the one he most wished, and yet most dreaded to
see. But Lottie did not appear.

Whether it was true, as she believed, or not, that she was the more
guilty, she certainly was the greater sufferer, and that Saturday
became the longest and dreariest period of pain that she had ever
experienced. She awoke in the morning with a nervous headache, which
grew so severe that she declined to leave her room during the day.
Bel, Addie, and her aunt all offered to do anything in their power;
but she only asked to be left alone. She was so unstrung that even
words of kindness and solicitude jarred like discord.

It was torture to think, and yet her brain was unnaturally active.
Everything presented itself in the most painfully bare and accurate
manner. The glamour faded out of her gay young life, and she saw
only the hard lines of fact.  Hemstead's words repeated themselves
over and over again, and in their light she questioned the past
closely. It was not in keeping with her positive nature and strong
mind to do things by halves. With fixed and steady scrutiny she
reviewed the motives of her life, and estimated the results. They
were so unsatisfactory as to startle her. Although the spent years
had been filled with continuous and varied activity, what had she
accomplished for herself or any one else? Were not all her past
days like water spilled on barren sands, producing nothing?

As she had before intimated, she had been receiving homage, flattery,
and even love, all her life, and yet now her heart had no treasures
to which she could turn in solid satisfaction, nor could memory
recall efforts like that she saw Miss Martell making in behalf of
Harcourt. The adulation received was now empty breath and forgotten
words, and nothing substantial or comforting remained.

But, if memory could recall little good accomplished, it placed in
long and dark array many scenes that she would gladly have forgotten.

What can be worse--what need we fear more--than to be left alone
forever with a guilty and accusing conscience, and no respite, no
solace? What perdition need a man shrink from more than to go away
from his earthly life, to be alone with memory--a pale and silent
spectre--who will turn the pages of his daily record, and point to
what was, and what might have been?

A shallow-minded girl would have been incapable of this searching
self-analysis. A weak, irresolute girl like Bel Parton would have
taken a sedative, and escaped a miserable day in sleep. But, with
all her faults, Lottie abounded in practical common sense; and
Hemstead's words and her own experience suggested that she might
be doing herself a very great wrong. She felt that it was no light
matter to make one's whole life a blunder, and to invest all one's
years and energies in what paid no better interest than she had
received that day. Her physical pain and mental distress acted and
reacted upon each other, until at last, wearied out, she sobbed
herself to sleep.

Both De Forrest and Hemstead were greatly in hopes that she would
be at the supper-table, but they did not see her that day. The
former, with his aching head and heavy heart, learned, if never
before, that the "way of transgressors is hard." But, though the
latter could not be regarded as a transgressor, his way was hard
also that long day; and he whom Lottie, in the memory of his severe
words, regarded somewhat as her stern accuser, would have been more
than ready to take all her pains and woes upon himself, could he
have relieved her.

He now bitterly condemned himself for having been too harsh in the
wholesome truth he had brought home to the nattered girl. It was
rather severe treatment; still she was vigorous, and would be all
the better for it. But now her faithful physician, as he heard how
ill and suffering she was, almost wished that he had but faintly
suggested the truth in homreopathic doses.

At the same time he supposed that her indisposition was caused more
by her shame and grief at the conduct of De Forrest than by anything
he had said. The impression that she was attached or engaged to De
Forrest was becoming almost a conviction.

Though Lottie had never, by a word, bound herself to her cousin,
yet her aunt and all the household regarded her as virtually engaged
to him, and expected that the marriage would eventually occur. With
Hemstead, they regarded her illness and seclusion as the result
of her mortificaton at his behavior, and, underneath their politic
politeness, were very indignant at his folly. But they expected
that the trouble would soon blow over, as a matter of course. The
mantle of charity for young men as rich and well-connected as De
Forrest is very large. And then this slip could be regarded somewhat
in the light of an accident; for when it became evident that Bel
understood the nature of De Forrest's "spell," as the coachman
called it, Lottie had taken pains to insist that it was an accident
for which she was chiefly to blame; and had also said as much to
Mrs. Marchmont.  Thus they all concluded that her relations with
De Forrest would not be disturbed.

Harcourt was the happiest of the party; but it must be confessed
that, clearer than any law points, he saw still among blooming
exotics a being far more rare and beautiful, who stood before him
the whole day with clasped hands and entreating eyes, whose only
request was, "be a true man." Under the inspiration of her words and
manner he began to hope that he might eventually grant her request.

As far as Lottie's intruding image would permit, Hemstead concentrated
all his energies on the great sermon, the elaborate effort of many
months, that he expected to preach on the morrow. He hoped that
Lottie, and indeed all, would be there, for it seemed that if they
would only give him their thoughtful attention he would prove beyond
a shadow of a doubt that they were in God's hands, and that it
would be worse than folly not to submit to His shaping and moulding
discipline.

At last Sunday morning came. It was a cold, chilly, leaden day,
and even a glance from the windows gave one a shivering sense of
discomfort.

The gloom of nature seemed to shadow the faces of some of the
party as they gathered at a late breakfast; and of none was this
more true than of Lottie Marsden, as, pale and languid, she took
her wonted place. Her greeting of De Forrest was most kindly, and
he seemed greatly reassured.  and brightened up instantly. But
Lottie's face did not lose its deep dejection.

To the others she appeared to take very little notice of Hemstead;
but he thought that he observed her eyes furtively seeking his
face, with a questioning expression. Once he answered her gknce
with such a frank, sunny smile that her own face lighted up. As
they were passing into the parlor he said, in a low tone, "I wished
a hundred times yesterday that I could bear your headache for you."

"That is more kind than just. It is right that I should get my
deserts," she replied, shaking her head.

"Heaven save us from our deserts," he answered quickly.

Before she could speak again, De Forrest was by her side and said,
"Let me wheel the lounge up to the fire, and I will read anything
you wish this morning."

"O, no; I'm going to church."

"Miss Lottie, I beg of you do not go. You are not able."

"Yes, I am; the air will do me good. It's the Sunday before Christmas,
Julian, and we both ought to be at church."

"O, certainly, I'll go if you wish it."

"I hope your sermon will do me good, Mr. Hemstead.  I'm wofully
blue," she said, as she left the room to prepare for church.

"I think it will," he replied; "for I have prepared it with a great
deal of care."

The building was a small but pretty Gothic structure, and its sacred
quiet did seem to Lottie somewhat like a refuge.  With an interest
such as she had never felt in the elegant city temple, she waited
for the service to begin, honestly hoping that there might be
something that would comfort and reassure.

But Hemstead went through the preliminary services with but
indifferent grace and effect. He was embarrassed and awkward, as
is usually the case with those who have seldom faced an audience,
and who are naturally very diffident. But as he entered upon his
sermon his self-consciousness began to pass away, and he spoke with
increasing power and effect.

He took as his text words from the eleventh chapter of St. John,
wherein Jesus declares to his disciples, in regard to the death of
Lazarus, "I am glad, for your sakes, that I was not there, to the
intent ye may believe."

The importance of faith--believing--as the source of Christian
life, and the ground of man's acceptance with God, was his subject,
from which he wandered somewhat,--a course often observed in the
ministerial tyro.

He presented his views strongly, however; but they were partial and
unripe, giving but one side of the truth, and therefore calculated
to do injury rather than good. He did not--he could not--over-estimate
the importance of faith, but he unwittingly misrepresented God, in
his efforts to inspire this faith, and the Christian life resulting;
and he under-valued our earthly state and its interests.

He sketched in strong outlines the experience of the little family
at Bethany, portraying with vivid realism the suffering of the man
whom Jesus loved; the anxiety of the sisters when Lazarus became
ill; this anxiety passing into fear, dread, sickening certainty,
and despair; the anguish of bereavement, the loneliness and
heart-breaking sorrow of four days; and that most agonized wrench
of the heart when the beloved form is left alone to corrupt in the
dark and silent sepulchre.

Having presented this picture in such true and sombre colors that
the gloom was reflected from the faces of all his hearers, they
being reminded that this would be their lot ere long, he passed
suddenly from the painful scenes of Bethany to Bethabara, beyond
Jordan, where was sojourning the mysterious Prophet of Nazareth,
who had so often proved His power to heal every disease. He enlarged
upon the fact that Jesus, seeing all the suffering at Bethany,
which He could change by a word into gladness, did not interfere,
but decreed that the terrible ordeal should be endured to the bitter
end.

From this he reasoned that the transient sorrows of the household
at Bethany were of little moment, and that God, in the advancement
of His own glory and the accomplishment of His great plans, would
never turn aside because His human children in their short-sighted
weakness would stay His heavy hand if they could. He knew all that
was occurring at Bethany, but calmly permitted it to take place,
and in this case it was the same as if He had willed it.

He then proceeded to show that the Divine purpose had not only a
wide and general sweep, embracing the race, and extending through
all time, but that there was a minute providence encompassing each
life. If there were any good in us, God would bring it out, nor
would He spare us in the effort. The preacher, unfortunately and
unconsciously to himself, gave the impression that God acted on
the principle that He could accomplish far more with the rod of
affliction than with anything else, and that when He fully set about
the task of winning a soul from sin, His first step was to stretch
it upon the rack of some kind of suffering. He also intensified
this painful impression by giving the idea that God thought little
of the processes, which might be so painful to us, but fixed His
eye only on the result. If people became sullen, rebellious, or
reckless under His discipline, they were like misshappen clay, that
the potter must cast aside. The crude ore must go into the furnace,
and if there was good metal in it the fact would appear.

"Sooner or later," he said, "God will put every soul into the
crucible of affliction. Sooner or later we shall all be passing
through scenes like that of the family at Bethany.  We may not hope
to escape. God means we shall not. As Christ firmly, while seeing
all, left events at Bethany to their designed course, so He will
as surely and steadily carry out the discipline which He, as the
unerring physician of the soul, sees that each one of us requires.
Does the refiner hesitate to put the crude ore into the crucible?
Does the sculptor shrink from chiselling the shapeless block
into beauty? Does not the surgeon, with nerves of steel and pulse
unquickened, cut near the very vitals of his agonized patient? He
sees that it is necessary, in order to save from greater evil, and
therefore he is as remorseless as fate.  If to cure some transient,
physical infirmity, man is justified in inflicting--nay, more, is
compelled to inflict--so much suffering upon his fellow-creatures,
how much more is God justified in His severest moral discipline,
which has as its object our eternal health. Though we shrink from
the sorrow, though we writhe under the pain, though our hearts
break a thousand times, He will not waver in His calm, steadfast
purpose. He sees eternity; the present is as nothing to Him. He
will break our grasp from all earthly idols, even though He tear
our bleeding hearts asunder.  If we are trusting in aught save Him,
that upon which we are leaning will be snatched away, even though
we fall at first into the depths of despairing sorrow. What He makes
us suffer now is not to be considered, in view of His purpose to
wean us from this world and prepare us for the next. Christ, as we
learn from our text, is as inflexible as fate, and does not hesitate
to secure the needful faith by remaining away, even though the
message of the sisters was an entreaty in itself. Nay, more, he
distinctly declares to his disciples, 'I am glad, for your sakes,
that I was not there, to the intent ye may believe.'

"In conclusion, we assert that we ought to rise above our human
weakness and co-work with God. Instead of clinging so to the present,
we ought to think of the eternal future, and welcome the harshest
discipline which prepares us for that future. We should mortify
ourselves, trample our earthly natures under our feet. To that
degree that we can bring ourselves to think less of earth, we shall
think more of heaven. Our business, our earthly hopes and plans,
our dearest ties, may be fatal snares to our souls.  The husband
may make an idol of his wife, the mother of her child. God jealously
watches; we should watch more jealously. The sisters may have been
loving their brother and trusting to his protection more than in
Christ.  We should hold all earthly possessions in fear and trembling,
as something not our own, but only committed for a brief time to
our trust. We should remember that the one great object of this
life is to secure that faith which leads to preparation for the
life to come. The harsher our experiences are here, the better,
if they more surely wean us from earth and all earthly things, and
make eternity the habitation of our thoughts. We see how stern and
resolute God is in His great purpose to stamp out unbelief from
the world. Jesus would not save the family at Bethany that He
loved,--the family that freely gave hospitality and love in return
when nearly all the world was hostile. Do not think, then, that
He will spare us. Let us therefore not spare ourselves, but with
remorseless hands smite down every earthly object that hides from
our view the wide ocean of eternity. As the wise men from the East
travelled steadily across arid wastes with eyes fixed only on the
strange bright luminary that was guiding them to Bethlehem, so we
should regard this world as a desert across which we must hasten
to the presence of our God."

As Hemstead forgot himself, and became absorbed in his theme,
he spoke with impressivensss and power; and everywhere throughout
the audience was seen that thoughtful contraction of the brow and
fixed gaze which betoken deep attention. But upon the faces of nearly
all was the expression of one listening to something painful. This
was especially true of Miss Martell and her father, while Harcourt's
face grew cold and satirical. Lottie looked pale and sullen, and
De Forrest was evidently disgusted. Mr.  Dimmerly fidgeted in his
seat, and even complacent Mrs.  Marchmont seemed a little ruffled
and disturbed, while her daughter Addie was in a state of irritable
protest against both preacher and sermon. Poor Bel was merely
frightened and conscience-stricken,--her usual condition after
every sermon to which she listened.

As, during the brief remnant of the service, Hemstead dropped into
consciousness of the world around him, he felt at first, rather
than saw, the chill he had caused, instead of a glow answering to
his own feelings. As he looked more closely, he imagined he detected
a gloomy and forbidding expression on the faces turned towards him.
The Gospel--the message of good news that he had brought--appeared
to shadow the audience like a passing cloud.

After dismission, the people aroused themselves as from an oppressive
dream. The few greetings and congratulations that he received
as he passed down the aisle seemed formal and constrained, and,
he thought, a little insincere.  He was still more puzzled as he
overheard Miss Martell say to Harcourt at the door, "I am sorry
you heard that sermon."

"I am, too," he replied, "for it seemed true."

"It's only half-truth," she said earnestly.

"The Lord deliver me, then; this half is more than I can stand."

Lottie scarcely spoke during the drive home, and Hemstead noted,
with pain, that her face had a hard, defiant look. It occurred
to him that he had not seen any who appeared to have enjoyed the
service.

There were long pauses at the dinner-table, and after one of the
longest, Mr. Dimmerly abruptly remarked, in his sententious manner:
"Well, nephew, I suppose you gave us a powerful sermon this morning.
It has made us all deucedly uncomfortable, anyhow. But I've no
doubt the old rule holds good, the worse the medicine is to take
the more certain to cure."

Lottie's response to this remark was a ringing laugh, in which the
others, in the inevitable reaction from the morbid gloom, joined
with a heartiness that was most annoying to the young clergyman.

"You must excuse me, Mr. Hemstead," said she, after a moment, "I
have had the blues all day, and have reached that point where I
must either laugh or cry, and prefer the former at the dinner-table."

Hemstead stiffly bowed as his only response. He was too chagrined,
puzzled, and disappointed to venture upon a reply, and after this
one lurid gleam of unnatural mirth the murky gloom of the day seemed
to settle down more heavily than before.

After dinner De Forrest tried to secure Lottie's society for the
afternoon. The refusal was kind, not careless, as had been often
the case. Indeed her whole manner towards him might be characterized
as a grave, remorseful kindness, such as we might show towards a
child or an inferior that we had wronged somewhat.

De Forrest, finding that Lottie would persist in going to her room,
went to his also, and took a long, comfortable nap.

Bel wanted to talk about the sermon, but as Lottie would not talk
about anything, she, too, soon forgot her spiritual anxieties in
sleep.

But Lottie sat and stared at her fire, and Hemstead, deserted by
all, stared at the fire in the parlor; and both were sorely troubled
and perplexed.






CHAPTER XIX.

THE PREACHER TAUGHT BY THE PAGAN





We have said that Lottie Marsden was a pagan. That is not
necessarily a reproach. Socrates was a pagan.  But Lottie, in the
main, was a very ordinary pagan, not better than the average. Her
only superiority over other idolaters, and many nominal Christians,
it might be added, was her practical common sense. The more she
thought, the more unsatisfactory Hemstead's sermon grew, and the
more sure she became that there was a wrong somewhere: in him, or
her, or in religion itself.

Her whole nature revolted at the idea of God given that morning.

In her vivid fancy, she saw an unrelenting, unimpassioned, and yet
all-powerful Being, from whom there was no escape, calmly subjecting
one human life after another to the severest crucial tests. If one
could endure them, all might be well. If, in the composition of
one's character, there existed good metal, it would come out of the
furnace fine gold perhaps; but if, as she feared might be true of
herself, there was only dross, then the fiery trials awaiting would
be as useless as cruel.

"Why couldn't an all-powerful God find a pleasanter and surer
way of making us good?" she asked in bitterness.  "I know there
is something wrong in what Mr. Hemstead preached this morning. He
is different from his own doctrines, and to my mind a great deal
better. He was severe upon me, but not calmly and stonily severe.
He looked as if he felt for me deeply, and would, even at cost to
himself, give me aid if I tried to do right. If he had shown me
my faults in the calm, cold distance of immeasurable superiority
which he ascribed to God, I would not have listened to a word.
But his voice was gentleness itself, and it evidently pained him
to give me pain; but when he came to show our relations to God,
I seemed to come into the presence of stony-hearted, stony-faced
fate. If this is the real God that ministers preach about, little
wonder that they have such a hard time of it in persuading us to
love Him. Little wonder that people forget Him as long as they can.
But Mr. Hemstead seems to want us to think of these awful things
nearly all the time; and what's worse, to begin torturing and
mortifying ourselves, even before God is ready to commence. No,
I thank you. No such religion for me. If I must go into the fiery
furnace, I won't go till I must."

She sprang up, and restlessly paced the room. "He's a very cheerful
apostle of such a gloomy gospel," she thought.  "Gospel! I thought
'gospel' meant 'good news.' I never heard worse than he told us
this morning. If what he preached is true religion, he's a very
inconsistent professor of it, and I would like to tell him so.

"What's more, I will if I can find him"; and acting upon the impulse
she left the room.

The "miserable sinners," as the prayer-book has it, whom Hemstead
had in fact made quite miserable for a time, grew more comfortable
after dinner; and by three o'clock, so far from employing hair-cloth
and scourgings, or even the mildest form of a crusade against
the weaknesses of the flesh, were all dozing and digesting in the
most luxurious manner. Lottie was the only "sinner" who remained
"miserable"; but she was not more "out of sorts" than the one who,
ex officio, as the world is prone to believe, Ought to have been
calm and serene upon his theological height above the clouds.

As she entered the parlor with her velvet-like tread, she paused
a moment to observe the Boanerges of the morning.  As he sat alone
before the fire, with his elbows upon his knees and his face buried
in his hands, he looked more like a weak mortal than a "son of
thunder." He did not look a bit like one who, with face as firm
and inflexible as God's purpose, was anxious to step into the fiery
furnace before it was ready.

She drew a few steps nearer, and stood over him with a curious
expression on her face, which could so well mask or reveal her thought
as she chose. She had come downstairs in a state of irritable and
defiant protest against his doctrines, and with no little vexation
at him for being their mouth-piece. If she had found him calmly
pacing the floor, pondering on human frailty and folly, or if he
had been reading judicially a semi-sceptical work, that he might
demolish the irreverent author, she would have made an onslaught
whose vigor, if not logic, would have greatly disturbed his
equanimity and theological poise. But when she saw his attitude
of deep dejection, and when twice he sighed long and heavily,
her woman's nature was disarmed, and she began to think that his
doctrines were as hard upon him as upon the rest. Instinctively
she took his part against God, whose formative hand appeared too
heavy for them both.

Therefore, instead of the hard, bitter words that she intended to
speak, she said, with a little quaver in her voice.  "Mr. Hemstead,
I almost believe that you feel as bad as I do."

When he looked up she was sure he felt worse. But he seemed to try
to forget his own trouble as he said kindly, "I'm sorry you feel
bad."

"Well," said Lottie, sitting down on the opposite side of the hearth,
while the fire, on which Hemstead had thrown some damp green wood,
smoked dismally between them, "I do think you are a little sorry."

"Can I help you in any way? I wish you knew how gladly I would do
so."

"Yes, I believe that, too. You don't look a bit as if you would
like to throw me into a fiery furnace, and see if I would come out
a lump of gold or a good-for-nothing cinder."

His only reply was a look of perplexed inquiry, but his gray eyes
were so kind, and yet withal so full of dejection, that she again
thought, "He is dreadfully inconsistent with his doctrines"; and
she said, with a trace of archness in her tone, "I think you look
as if you needed a little help and comfort yourself."

He turned away his face, but after a moment said, "You never spoke
truer words, Miss Marsden."

Then Lottie, who before had felt in such need of cheer herself,
forgot this need in her wish to help the great desponding man
before her, whose mingled weakness and strength surprised her more
and more. In a tone that would have softened flint she said, "I
wish I were good enough to help you."

Then he perplexed her by saying, with sudden energy, "And I wish
you were bad enough."

"What do you mean by that?"

"Pardon me," he said hastily. "My words were figurative, and
exaggerated by deep feeling. I meant that I wished you, or some
one, could be human and charitable enough to understand me, and
help me to triumph over my weakness without condemning too severely."

"Well," said Lottie, with a little sigh of satisfaction, "I think
I'm bad enough. I'm very human, anyway, and I think I'm in a mood
to be charitable to-day; for, if my conscience tells me the truth,
I'm awfully in need of charity myself."

He looked up quickly and hopefully as he said, "Then my sermon did
you some good after all."

"Not a bit of it. I can have plenty of charity for you, but hot a
particle for your sermon,--no more than I would for a thumb-screw
of the Inquisition."

This unmeasured condemnation of the pet child of his brain,--a part
of himself as it were,--of which he had been so proud, cut to the
quick, and he flushed deeply and almost resentfully at first. But
he made no reply, and sat lowering at the smoky hearth while he
sank into a lower depth of despondency. Preaching was his chosen
life-work, and yet this was the verdict against his first great
sermon.

Lottie looked hopelessly at him, not knowing what to say or do
next, and regretting that she had spoken so hastily and harshly.

At last he sighed: "I don't understand it. I had spent months over
that sermon. I fear I have mistaken my calling."

"Well," said Lottie, rather brusquely, "I wouldn't feel so forlorn
and miserable over that. I don't think it's much of a calling
anyway."

"O Miss Marsden!" he ejaculated, in a shocked tone.

"I'm sincere in what I say," she continued earnestly, "Please don't
misunderstand me. As far as I am a judge I think your sermon was
well written, and it certainly was delivered effectively; for,
though none of us liked it, we couldn't help listening. But its
strongest effect was to make me wish I was an infidel and, like
Mr. Harcourt, did not believe in anything. I honestly think that
it will be a very poor calling to go out among the poor people on
the frontier and preach such a gospel as you gave us this morning.
In the name of pity, haven't they enough to contend with now?
In addition to the scalping Indians, the border ruffians, the
grasshoppers, and grinding poverty, are you going to give them
a religion in which the furnace of affliction and the crucible of
trial flame as the centre? Poor creatures!  I suppose they are in
hard and hot places most of the time, but don't make them think
that God puts them there, and that there is no chance to get out
till He is through with them. I can tell you beforehand, that people
are not going to get into the fiery furnace and commence having
a miserable time of it before they must. Let us be as comfortable
as we can, while we can. If you feel that you have mistaken your
calling--and I hope you have--I'm sure that father, at my request,
will find you a better one in New York."

Poor Hemstead was as satisfied as Luther had been that this was
a temptation of the devil; but before him was no such apparition
as that against which the great reformer could hurl his ink-horn
without leaving a spot.

With the lurid flash of Lucifer as he fell from heaven, the thought
passed through his disquieted mind, "And in New York I might win
the hand and heart of this beautiful girl." But every quality of
his soul frowned so darkly on this thought, which held out Lottie
Marsden as a bribe, that it soon skulked away. His mind reverted
to the main difficulty, and he said, "Surely, Miss Marsden, I did
not preach such a religion as you suggest."

"You surely did, Mr. Hemstead, as I could soon prove to you. I am
glad you are so inconsistent a professor of your religion."

"Am I an inconsistent professor?" he asked sadly.

"Indeed you are," she replied; and both mischief and kindness lurked
in her eyes. "You don't live up to your doctrines at all."

"Little wonder, then," he exclaimed, in bitter self-condemnation,
"that all turn from my teaching."

She looked at him with a curious smile, as she thought, "What
a child he is! He is but wax in my hands. If he should marry a
cold-hearted, selfish woman, with a spice of petty, teasing malice
in her nature, she could sit down quietly at his hearth and torture
to death this overgrown man, with whole libraries in his brain. I
could wring his soul now, by making him think that he had lived so
unworthily that we could not listen to his most unworthy sermon."

She led him out of his strong self-condemnation into equal perplexity,
by saying, "Unlike most of the world, you are so much better than
your creed as to be utterly inconsistent."

He came and sat down near her, with such an appealing, helpless
look that she laughed outright.

"Please don't laugh at me," he said, with the glimmer of a smile,
"because this to me is a more serious matter than you or any one
can understand."

"I don't laugh unfeelingly, I assure you," she said earnestly. "I
never was more sincere in my life than I was this afternoon, but I
am one of those ridiculous mortals who cannot take things coolly,
and, as I said at dinner, there are times when I must either
laugh or cry. I never passed a more miserable day in my life than
yesterday. You, terrible magician, whom I have scarcely known for
a week, have awakened in my heart a giant; and yesterday and to-day
he has been shaking my soul with his mutterings and threatenings.
I could always manage my conscience before, and snub it into
quietness when it became unruly.  But, as I said, from a whining
child it has suddenly grown into a threatening giant, more harsh
even than you the other evening. I went to church this morning,
hoping to find some comfort, some remedy; but, bad as is the disease,
the remedy seems far worse. I came downstairs this afternoon in no
amiable mood with you or your theology, but was disarmed by seeing
you in as bad a plight as myself. I fear your medicine will kill
both doctor and patient. During the past week you have been a strong,
genial man, with a human, genuine enjoyment of our every-day life.
If you were a little blue and puritanical, it was in a common-sense
way that I could understand, and your criticism of myself I think
in the main was just. Anyway, you made me wish I was a better girl,
and I was thinking how to begin; then came this awful Sunday, and
your awful sermon, which made me both fear and hate God, and want
to keep away from Him as far and as long as I can."

"Your words perplex and sadden me beyond measure," said Hemstead.
"You belong to the very class that I had hoped to benefit,--those
who admit that they are without faith, but who are not so averse
to the truth but that they may be won by it. And yet you say that
the whole force of my sermon is to make you wish that you could be
an infidel. I cannot understand it. If I have mistaken my calling
I could not make you or any one comprehend the depth of my sorrow, or
the bitterness of my disappointment In the calling of the ministry
it has ever seemed to me that I could work a century with enthusiasm.
But in any other work I should be but a drudge, for my heart would
not be in it You know how young men often feel about these things.
One has a natural bent for the law, another for medicine, and
another for business or science. I had fondly hoped that I was
a predestined minister, and this hope has strengthened with years
and become inwrought with every fibre of my soul.  I was willing
to commence in a very humble way, and anywhere that God would set
me to work; but if the effect of my preaching is to drive people
away from Him, the sooner I give it all up the better."

"How different our tastes and plans for life are!" said Lottie,
musingly. "It appears strange that you should have set your heart
so strongly on what is so dismal to me. And yet such is the evident
depth of your regret that I do feel for you very much."

Hemstead rose and took a few abrupt turns up and down the room.
Lottie watched him with increasing interest.  He had shown her his
weakness, and she perceived that he would also show his strength.
After a moment he leaned on the mantel before her, and said in
quiet, decisive tones:

"Miss Marsden, I have given you the right to speak to me very plainly.
I honestly wish light on this subject, and intend to settle this
question at the earliest moment possible.  God knows I do not wish
to thrust myself unbidden into the sacred office. If I am not worthy
of the calling, then the sooner I find it out the better, and so
try to content myself with some humbler work. Not only from what
you have said, but from the remarks and aspect of others, I am
satisfied that my effort this morning was worse than a failure.
You have a mind of unusual vigor, and a good faculty in expressing
your thought. Won't you give me a keen, truthful analysis of the
whole service? It is to the world I am to preach; and I wish to
know just how what I say strikes the world. I know that Christian
doctrines have ever been unpalatable, but if there is something
in my presentation of them that is going to make them tenfold more
so, then I will be dumb. I would rather hide in a desert than drive
one soul from God, as you intimated. You were brave enough to let
me speak to you almost harshly, I fear; now see if I have not equal
courage. Say the very worst things that you believe true, and you
may help me very much towards coming to the most important decision
of my life."

"O dear!" said Lottie. "I'm not fit to counsel a downy chicken. I
wish you didn't take this matter so to heart You look as if I might
be your executioner."

"You can be my faithful surgeon and do some wholesome cutting."

"Well," said Lottie, dismally. "I'd rather give you ether or
laughing-gas first."

"That is more kind than wise," he replied, smiling; "in moral and
mental surgery the patient should have all his faculties."

"There!" she exclaimed with animation, "we are illustrating by
contrast my chief complaint against your preaching. When you told
me my faults you did so gently, and appeared pained in giving me
pain; and now I am honestly sorry to say words that I know will hurt
you. And I know my words will hurt and discourage you; for if the
trouble were in you it might be remedied, but it is in what you
teach, and of course you teach what you believe, and won't say smooth
things, as I fear other ministers do sometimes.  You represented
God calm and unchangeable as fate, as unrelenting and unimpassioned.
In this spirit you portrayed Him taking up one life after another
and putting it into the furnace of affliction, to see what He can
make of it. You illustrated His manner of doing this by the sculptor
with his cold, unfeeling marble, by the refiner with crude ore,
and by the surgeon, and you forgot to say that the last stupefies
his patients before cutting. You gave me the impression that as
soon as God set about making us better we should find ourselves in
trouble, and that, like certain school-masters of the old regime,
He had faith in nothing save the rod.  You know the natural feeling
of children towards such pedagogues. How can we help feeling hi the
same way towards God? Then you presented God as full of inflexible
purposes, but the oftener you told us that we could not help
ourselves, and that there was no use in resisting, the move I felt
like resisting. The idea of cutting and carving character out of
quivering human hearts as if they were marble!  The idea of putting
one, like a lump of ore, into a crucible, and then coolly sitting
by to see what becomes of it! I'm not a lump of ore, and if I need
harsh treatment I want it done sympathetically, feelingly, or I
shall become a Tartar instead of a saint. The tears in your eyes
the other night, Mr. Hemstead, did me more good than all your wise
words."

Hemstead looked as if a light were dawning upon him.

"You spoke of this life," continued Lottie, "as if it were nothing,
and as if God didn't care--indeed approved of our having a hard
time here, that we might be more sure of a good time hereafter.
You spoke of God as jealously watching, lest we should love earthly
friends more than Him, and said that He was bound to be first, if
He had to snatch away everything that we loved most. Therefore,
even the mother must keep chilling her natural love for her child,
or else God will make the innocent little thing suffer and die,
just to give the mother a lesson. You said that we should hold all
earthly possessions in fear and trembling, and that the harsher
our experiences were, here, the better, if they only wean us from
earth. If this is true, we had better have no possessions and form
no ties. The monks and nuns are right. Let us shut ourselves up,
and wear hair-cloth instead of merino, and catch our death of cold
by moping around bare-foot at all unseasonable hours. All you said
may be good religion, but it's mighty poor sense, and very unnatural."

Hemstead shaded his burning face with his hands.

"There, I knew I should hurt you. No doubt I seem very irreverent,
but you have no idea how I am restraining myself for your sake. I'm
just that provoked and indignant--Well, well, what's the use? As
you said, we can't help ourselves, and into the fiery furnace Lottie
Marsden will go before long; only there will be nothing left of me
but a little cinder. Why couldn't the Being you call all-wise and
all-powerful, devise some nicer way, one more in accordance with
the nature He has given us? Suppose heaven is a grander place than
this world, that is no good reason for hating the world. This earth
is our present home, and it looks sensible that we should make the
most of it, and enjoy ourselves in it. Suppose my father should
say, 'Lottie, I want you to hate and despise your present home,
because in five years I'm going to give you a palace; and if you
can only fall downstairs once or twice, and have a fit of illness
so as to get weaned from it, I shall be glad.'

"How strangely and monstrously unnatural all that kind of talk is
when you come to put it into plain English!" proceeded Lottie after
a moment, tapping the floor impatiently with her foot. "If you must
preach such doctrines as you did this morning, I am sorry for you;
and, if they are true, I am sorry for the world, myself included.
The trouble is not in you. I am sure you can make almost an orator
in time, if you can get a theme that won't give men the shivers,
and set their teeth on edge. I never understood religion and never
liked it; and now that I do begin to understand it, I like it less
than ever."

Hemstead sat down in his chair,--indeed he sank into it, and the
face he turned toward her was white and full of pain.

"Miss Marsden," he said slowly, "I fear I have given you, and all
who heard me, a very false impression of God and Christianity; and
yet I thought I was speaking the truth."

"O, I knew you were honest. There isn't a dishonest fibre in your
nature; but I wish you were all wrong. O, how delighted I should
be if you were a heretic without knowing it, and we could find out
a religion that wouldn't make one's blood run cold to think of it!"

"But my religion does me good, Miss Marsden. It cheers, sustains,
and strengthens me."

"Now you see how inconsistent you are. You preach one thing, and
feel and act another."

"I begin to see how I was misled in my sermon, and why what I said
was so repugnant to you; and yet my mind is confused. It still
appears to me that I developed the thought of the text. Christ
said, 'I am glad I was not there, to the intent ye may believe.'
These words would seem to show that He regarded our transient pains
as of very secondary importance compared with the accomplishment
of His great purposes. Why did He not go to Bethany at once, if it
were not so?"

"Well, it's an awful text, or you give it an awful interpretation.
Let me take the thought out of the realm of theology or religion,
and bring it down to practical life. Suppose you go to New York
to-morrow and remain a few days, and to-morrow night the house
burns up, and I with it. Would your first thought be, 'I am glad I
was not there to put out the fire or to rescue that naughty girl,
Lottie Marsden, because her sudden death, for which she was all
unprepared, will be a warning to many, and result in great good'?
I may be wrong, Mr. Hemstead, but I think you would get pretty well
scorched before you would permit even such a guy as I am to become
a warning to other naughty girls."

"I can't imagine myself leaving you in danger," said Hemstead, with
a look that brought the blood into Lottie's face.

"I thought you would feel so," she continued heartily.  "You
can preach awfully against sinners, but when you come to put your
doctrines in practice, you say as you did to me, 'I wish I could bear
all for you.' Heaven knows I'm selfish enough, but I can at least
understand and appreciate generous and kindly sympathy, and could
be won by it. But this cool and inflexible elaboration of character,
where only the end is considered, and all our timid shrinking and
human weakness are ignored,--this austere asceticism which despises
the present world and life,--is to me unnatural and monstrous.
I confess I never read the Bible very much, and have not listened
when it was read. I have half forgotten the story of Lazarus. You
left off where Lazarus was in his grave, and Christ was glad He
was not there to prevent his death. But that was not all the story.
I think, if I remember rightly, Christ raised him to life.  Come,
get a Bible, and let us read the whole story, and see if we cannot
find something that will not make the word 'gospel' a mockery."

"Won't you read it?" asked Hemstead, humbly, handing her the Bible.

"Yes, if you wish me to, though it seems very funny that I should
be reading the Bible to you."

"I begin to have a hope that you will teach me more than I ever
learned from it before," he replied earnestly.

As in sweet, unaffected, girlish tones she read the ancient story
of human suffering and sorrow, the scenes passed in seeming reality
before the student. He was intensely excited, though so quiet. When
one with a strong mind recognizes that he is approaching a crisis
in life, there is an awe that calms and controls. Lottie, with her
intense vitality, could arouse even a sluggish nature. But to earnest
Hemstead, with his vivid fancy, and large faith, this beautiful
but erratic creature reading the neglected Bible, to find for him
a sweeter and sunnier gospel than he had preached, seemed a special
providence that presaged more than he had dared to conjecture; and
he listened as one who expected a new revelation.

Indeed his darkness was losing its opaqueness. Rays of light
were quivering through it. Her plain and bitter words of protest
against his sermon had already shown him, in a measure, that he had
exaggerated, in his first crude sermonizing, one truth, and left
out the balancing and correcting truth. Familiar with all the story
of Lazarus, his mind travelled beyond the reader, and with mingled
joy and self-condemnation he already began to see how he had
misrepresented the God of Love. With intense eagerness he watched
and waited to see the effect of the complete story on Lottie's
mind.

When she came to the words, "Jesus said unto her, _I_ am the
resurrection and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were
dead yet shall he live: and whosoever liveth and believeth in me
shall never die,"--she stopped and said, "This is very remarkable
language. What does it mean?"

"Read on; read to the end," he urged.

She caught his eager expectancy, and read, with an absorbing
interest, the truth that now seemed stranger than any fiction.

When she reached the words, "He groaned in spirit, and was troubled,"
she raised her eyes in a quick glance of inquiry.

"Read on," said Hemstead, in breathless interest.

A moment later, the shortest verse in the Bible was upon her lips.
Then she ceased reading aloud, and the student saw her eyes hastily,
as if she were unable to endure the momentary delay of pronunciation,
scanning the story to its end.

"Mr. Hemstead," she asked excitedly, "why did Jesus weep and groan,
when in a few moments Lazarus would be alive, and the scene of
mourning be changed to one of joy?"

With tears in his eyes, he replied, "There is One guiding you--guiding
us both--who can answer that question better than I."

"We believe that Jesus Christ is God, do we not?" she half mused,
half questioned, her brows contracting with intense thought.

"Yes," he said reverently.

"Why, Mr. Hemstead, don't you see--don't you see?  This Being who
is so keenly sympathetic, so tenderly alive to a spene of sorrow,
that He weeps and groans, though knowing that joy is coming in a
moment, is not the calm, passionless, inflexible God you chilled
our hearts with this morning. Why, this is the very extravagance
of tender-heartedness. This is a gentleness that I can scarcely
understand. What mother, even, would first weep with her children
over a sorrow that she was about to remove with a word! And yet this
all-powerful Jesus, who can raise the dead to life, seems to cry
just because the others do,--just as if He couldn't help it,--just
as dear, good Auntie Jane's eyes moisten when she hears of any one
in trouble. Mr.  Hemstead, there is surely a mistake somewhere.
How do you reconcile this Christ with the one you presented this
morning?"

"I don't, and cannot."

"And yet He did say to His disciples, 'I am glad I was not there,'"
continued Lottie, in deep perplexity.

Hemstead paced the room excitedly a few minutes, and then exclaimed,
"It's growing as clear and beautiful as the light."

"It seems to me flat contradiction," said Lottie, dejectedly.
"There are the words, 'I am glad I was not there '; and there is
the fact that He let Lazarus die; and there also are the facts of
His weeping and raising Lazarus: and, now I think of it, He performed
many miracles equally kind, and helped and encouraged all sorts of
people."

"Certainly He did," cried Hemstead. "Blind idiot that I was in
developing a crude theological idea of my own, instead of simply
presenting the God of the Bible! I can never thank you enough, Miss
Marsden, for your strong good sense that has dissipated my fog-bank
of words. I think I see the way into light. You have placed a clew
in my hands which I trust will lead, not only me, but others into
peace. I fear I did present to you a calm, unimpassioned, inflexible
Being this morning,--a God of purposes and decrees and remorseless
will; and I have felt before that this was the God of theology and
religious philosophy, rather than the God of the Bible. Your words
have shown me that I gave you a crude and one-sided view. Thoughts
are thronging so upon my mind that I am confused, but it comes to
me with almost the force of an inspiration that Christ's tears of
sympathy form the key to the whole Bible."

"Well," said Lottie, in a low tone, "I can see how they might become
the key to my heart. Come, Mr. Hemstead, I have been a heathen up
to this time; and I hope you have been a heretic. If you can explain
the Bible in accordance with Christ's tears, as He wept, when the
kindest man living would have smiled, in view of the change so soon
to occur,--then preach by all means. That is the kind of gospel we
want. If I could believe that God felt with, and for, his creatures
as tenderly as that, it seems to me that I could go to Him as
naturally as I ever went to Auntie Jane in my troubles."

Hemstead was pacing the room, as was his custom when excited. His
face was aglow with earnest, elevating thoughts.  His ungainliness
had utterly vanished; and Lottie acknowledged that she had never
seen a nobler-looking man. She felt that perhaps they were both on
the threshold of a larger and richer life than they had ever known
before.  She saw dimly, as through a mist, that which her heart
longed to believe,--the truth that God does care about His earthly
children,--that He was not to her a mere shaping force or power,
but a tender, gentle-hearted helper. Therefore she waited eagerly
and hopefully for Hemstead to speak.

But he felt that the glad tumult in his mind rendered him unfit to
be her guide just then, and therefore said: "Miss Marsden, I want
to think calmly and carefully over what you have said. I want
to take this briefest of all texts, 'Jesus wept,' as a lamp in my
hand, and with it explore the rest of the Bible. Already it seems
that it may be like carrying a light into a treasure vault, and
that where before was darkness, gems and riches now will glitter."

"And I, who have had the good fortune to strike the light for you,
am in the mean time to sit outside of the 'treasure vault,' and
perhaps neither see nor get any of the 'gems.' I don't agree at
all to your gloating alone over what may be discovered."

"And can you think I would wish to 'gloat alone'?" said Hemstead,
reddening. "It will be my chief joy to bring back all I find to
you."

"I'm not that kind of a girl," said Lottie, with a little emphatic
gesture. "If I wanted something from the top of a mountain, I
would not send a man for it, but would go with him after it. This
helpless waiting, or languid looking on, while men do everything
for us, is as absurd in one direction as the Indian custom of making
the squaw do all the hard work in another. I don't see why we
can't take this genial little lamp of a text, and do some exploring
together. I will hold the lamp, and you do the looking.  Here is the
Bible, and there is your seat beside this dismal, smoking fire. I
fear you have treated it as you did us this morning,--put on green
wood."

"I think you are right in both cases," he said, his telltale color
again suddenly rising.

"No matter, it was good wood in both cases, as you will see when
it becomes ripe and dry."

"It will never do for me to become dry as a preacher, Miss Marsden."

"Yes, it will in my sense, for then you will kindle more easily,
and therefore kindle others. But come, I am holding the lamp, 'Jesus
wept.' Every thing you can find in the Bible that will confirm the
hope of God's sympathy--that He cares for us as we are, with all
our faults and weaknesses--will be most welcome."

Lottie was so positive and determined, and her manner so irresistible,
that Hemstead had no thought, save that of compliance. She had that
piquant imperiousness to which men are willing slaves when it is
manifested graciously, and by a pretty woman. He was like a ship
caught in a gale, and there was nothing to do but scud before it.
At the same time, it seemed that she was driving him swiftly towards
the haven and rest of a better and broader faith.

Therefore he sat down by the dismal, smoky hearth, but turned
expectantly to her face, which, in contrast, was all aflame with
hope and interest.

"The impression grows upon me," he said, "that you are being guided,
and therefore you shall guide me."

"I want to settle the question," she replied, "whether I can love
and trust God; or whether, as I feared this morning, I must dread
and almost hate Him. It seems to me that the only thing religion
does for Cousin Bel is to make her uncomfortable. If what you told
us, and what she experiences, is true religion, then I shall ignore
it and forget all about it as long as I can,--till God commences
with me, and puts me by way of trial into the fiery furnace of
affliction. I fear only a cinder would be the result. But if the
natural explanation of these two words, 'Jesus wept,' is true,
then God is kinder, gentler, and more sympathetic than any human
friend. Prove to me that the One who, out of pure tender-heartedness,
cried just because others around Him were crying, though even about
to remove the cause of their sorrow, is the God of the Bible, and
I will thank you, with lasting and unmeasured gratitude. Then your
teaching will be a gospel,--good news in very truth.  You say the
Old and New Testaments both make one Bible, do you not?"

"Yes."

"Well it is the Old Testament that I most dread. It is so full
of wars and bloodshed, and strange, stern rites. And then the old
prophets say such awful things! Still, I admit that it's all very
vague and dim in my mind. Can you find anything in the Old Testament
that corresponds with the words 'Jesus wept'?"

The student rapidly turned the leaves of the large Bible upon his
lap, and read:

"Like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them
that fear Him.

"For He knoweth our frame: He remembereth that we are dust."

"That fits like light to the eye," exclaimed Lottie, with exultation.
"What becomes of your sermon, Mr. Hemstead, in view of such texts?
Truth is not contradictory."

"You shall see in a moment, Miss Marsden what becomes of my sermon,"
and he hastily left the room.

While Lottie was wondering at his action, he returned and threw
the manuscript on the hearth. But while the green wood had been
smoking so dismally, it had also dried and kindled; and Hemstead's
heavy sermon, so far from quenching the rising flame, seemed just
the encouragement needed to develop a cheerful blaze, in the midst
of which it perished, like a narrow, sour, but sincere, well-meaning
old martyr of former days.

In committing this unripe fruit of his brain--his heart had dictated
but little of it--to the flames, Hemstead would have felt, a few
hours earlier, as a Hindu mother might when casting her child to
the crocodiles of the Ganges. Now with exultation he saw it shrivel,
as its teachings had shrivelled within his own mind a little before.

"Like as a father pitieth his children," was a better gospel than
"like as a sculptor chisels his marble," or "like as a surgeon cuts
remorselessly with pulse unquickened, though the patient writhes."

Preacher and pagan stood together by the hearth, and saw perish the
Gospel of Fear--of gloomy asceticism--which for so many centuries,
in dim, damp cloisters and stony cells has chilled the heart and
quenched the spirit.

And yet, to-day, in the broad light of Bible lands, and in the
midst of the wholesome and suggestive duties of family life, do not
many, under false teachings like that of Hemstead's sermon, find
spiritual paths as dark and painful as those of ascetics who made
self-mortification the business of life? Christ spake truly when
He said, "Men love darkness rather than light." We fill the service
of the Author of Light with gloom. The hermit thought he could best
serve God in the chill and dimness of a cave; and the anchorite's
cave has been the type of our shadowy, vault-like churches, and of
the worshippers' experience ever since.

God is too wise and good to teach a religion utterly repugnant and
contradictory to the nature He has given us.  A child's hand may
lead a multitude; a giant's strength can drive but few.

Christ's tears had fallen on the ice in Lottie's heart, and melted
it away. It was now tender, receptive, ready for the seeds of truth.
Hemstead's sermon had only hardened it.

Like the Hebrew mothers with their little children, she had pushed
her way through frowning doctrines and stately attributes that
appeared to encompass God, as did the rebuking disciples of old
their gentle Master; and there seemed One before her who, like Jesus,
was ready to take her in His arms and lavish upon her tenderness
without limit.

The glow of the burning sermon lighted up the faces of the Preacher
and one who could no longer be called a Pagan, for she stood before
the altar of "the unknown God," and was strongly inclined to place
her heart upon it. She believed, though as yet she did not trust.
She understood but little of Bible truth, yet it was no longer a
repellent darkness, but rather a luminous haze against which Jesus
stood distinctly, tearful from sympathy.

As the obnoxious sermon sank into ashes, Hemstead turned and took
Lottie's hand with a pressure that made it ache for hours after, and
said: "Now you have seen what has become of my sermon and many of
my old beliefs.  The furnace of God's discipline shall no longer,
as you have said, flame as the lurid centre of my Gospel; but
Jesus Christ, as you have discovered Him, the embodiment of love
and sympathy, shall be its centre."

With a smile upon her lips, but with tears in her eyes, Lottie
replied, "And such a gospel would win even the border ruffians.
Yes," she added hesitatingly, "I half believe it might win even
such a little pagan as Lottie Marsden."

Just then a broad ray of light glinted into the room, and
illuminated Lottie's face into such marvellous beauty that Hemstead
was spell-bound. He was too intent on watching her to be aware that
the ray rested on him also; but she exclaimed: "O Mr. Hemstead!
you don't know how your face is lighted up by the setting sun. If
I believed in omens, I should know that your successful work will
be out on the frontier,--in the West, whence comes, after this dreary
day, such a beautiful light, which suggests, I hope, the fame and
glory you are to win there."

"This light from the West falls equally upon you," he said impulsively.

There was a sudden crimson in her face, deeper than that caused by
the setting sun.

She gave him a quick, shy glance, to gather his meaning, but said,
"Omens are only half-truths, I have heard."

Under a vague but strong impulse he had spoken foolishly, he thought;
and suggested that, in seeking to change her character, his motive
in part might be a presumptuous hope of his own. Therefore a deeper
flush crimsoned his face; but he said quietly: "I believe that, in
our day, omens are will-of-the-wisps of the imagination. What need
is there of such fitful lights, when the sun of God's truth is
shining in this Bible? Shall we explore farther?"

Again they sat down and sought to reconcile the apparently conflicting
truths of God's mercy and justice,--of His severity and unutterable
tenderness. Proofs of both were found upon the page of inspiration
"as thick as leaves in Vallombrosa." It was clearly evident that
God would make no terms with sin, whatever He might do for the
sinner.  But the Divine man, as He stands between justice and the
erring, appeared to solve the problem. And if God's discipline was
at times severe, and Christ was glad when faith-inspiring sorrow
came, it was also seen that He could weep with the weak human
children who cried under the rod, though heaven might result from
the transient pain.






CHAPTER XX.

THE DAWNING LIGHT.





Some little time before the supper-bell rang, De Forrest sauntered
in, and witnessed a scene that both surprised and puzzled him.
And yet a lover would scarcely have found, in the quiet and pretty
picture that the parlor and its occupants made, any ground for
jealousy. Hemstead was at the centre-table, under the now-lighted
chandelier, reading aloud from the Bible. Lottie sat by the hearth,
the firelight playing upon an unusually grave and thoughtful face.

"Well," he exclaimed, "you look for all the world like an old
married couple keeping Sunday together."

Of course Hemstead flushed. But why should Lottie's color grow richer
than the ruddy fire-light warranted? She knew she was blushing,
and the fact puzzled her, for it was a new experience to find the
blood flying into her face, and her heart in a sudden flutter.

She was also excessively annoyed at De Forrest's intrusion, for such
it seemed, though he had an equal right to the parlor with herself.
We usually judge unjustly, in proportion as we feel strongly.

But the habit of her old, insincere life swayed her, and she said
lightly, "If, instead of dozing away the whole afternoon, you would
follow Mr. Hemstead's example and read the Bible, you would be the
better for it."

"I would have read to you all the afternoon, if you had given
me a chance, and even from the Bible if you had asked for it," De
Forrest replied, with an injured air.

"Well, you see Mr. Hemstead is a predestined missionary, and he no
doubt thought, and correctly too, that he would never find a truer
object of missionary effort than myself; so I have obtained a better
knowledge of the Bible this afternoon than ever before."

They were now joined by others, and the conversation became general.
Soon after they went out to supper.

The depression of the sermon appeared to have passed from the rest,
as well as from Lottie and Hemstead, though for different reasons.
The latter had gone out of themselves toward God, and had found
Him the source of light and cheer. The others had forgotten Him,
and still remained in the dim, chill grottos of their unbelief,
illumining their darkness by such artificial and earth-lit tapers
as the occasion offered. Mrs. Marchmont's apartments were cosey
and elegant, the supper was inviting, the ruddy wood-fire and easy
chairs suggested luxurious comfort; and why should they not be
comfortable, and quietly forget their dismal thoughts about God, and
the self-denial of the Cross? The current of ordinary and worldly
life, which Hemstead's sincere but mistaken words had rudely
interrupted, now began to flow on as quietly and smoothly as before.

But with Lottie it was very different, and the tides of her life
seemed seeking new channels.

Bel, and to a certain extent the others, noted peculiarities in
her manner and that of Hemstead. Her moodiness was gone, but in
its place was not her old levity. When Moses came down from the
presence of God, his face shone so that he was compelled to veil
its brightness; and it has ever seemed true that nearness to God and
His truth gives spiritual light and attractiveness to the plainest
features.

Lottie was more than beautiful that evening. She was radiant. Like
a sunrise in June, two forms of pure, ennobling love were dawning
in her heart; and the first, faint, unrecognized emotions illumined
her face strangely at times.  Her manner was unusually gentle, and
while responding to the general conversation she had many moments
of abstraction, and was evidently carrying on a chain of thought
very different from that appearing upon the surface of their
table-talk. But all remembered that Lottie abounded in moods, and
she was what the commonplace call "an odd girl."

But why Hemstead, after his gloom and chagrin at dinner, should now
be beaming, was not so clear. Bel thought, "The poor moth! Lottie
has been dazzling him with her dangerous smiles. It's a shame."

After supper Harcourt appeared, and sacred music was in order.
Even De Forrest and Addie joined in this with considerable zest.
It was the proper, and about the only thing that could be done on a
Sabbath evening. The most irreligious feel better for the occasional
indulgence of a little religious sentimentality. When the aesthetic
element is supreme, and thorny self-denial absent, devotion is
quite attractive to average humanity. Moreover the dwarfed spiritual
nature of the most materialistic often craves its natural sustenance;
and Sabbath evening at times suggests to the worldly that which alone
can satisfy. The "Sun of Righteousness" sheds a pale, reflected ray
upon them; but this is better than utter darkness, and may lure
forward where the Divine smile will beam fully upon them. Do not
let us undervalue Sunday evening sentiment and sacred music, even
though occurring where there was a dance yesterday, and where there
will be a revel to-morrow. There must always be a first support on
which the grovelling vine can begin to climb heavenward.

Though sentiment, like pale moonlight, causes no ripe and wholesome
growth, it is better than darkness, and is proof that the vivifying
light is shining somewhere.

In the case of Hemstead, however, the words of praise and prayer
composing the hymns sung were the intelligent utterances of a
believing heart to the natural object of its faith and devotion.

Lottie was not much given to sentiment, even in religion, and the
sacred words, a week before, would have come from her lips only,
while she thought of other things; but now she was surprised to
find how her heart was stirred by them, and how, from being empty
phrases, they were becoming full of beautiful meaning.

That was a memorable Sabbath evening to her. It seemed as if within
her old, earth-born, material life, a subtile spiritual one had
been kindled, which illumined and glorified everything.

She felt as if endowed with a new sense, by means of which she was
becoming dimly conscious of a new and different world. She was more
than happy: she was thrilling with strange and mysterious joy, and
was elated beyond measure, as if Christian principle and heaven
were already won; as many a pilgrim is happier before the quickly
coming fall into the "Slough of Despond" than ever again until
within the gates of the Celestial City.

Lottie's flame-like spirit was not prone to take anything coolly;
and now that her soul was kindled by fire from heaven, and in
addition her whole nature awakened by the as yet unrecognized, but
strongest of earthly forces,--the natural love of her heart for
the one to whom only had been given the power to inspire it, little
wonder that her but half-suppressed excitement was surprising both
to herself and others,--little wonder that she was more radiant
than ever she had been upon the gayest and most brilliant occasions.

There was nothing unnatural in her experience. She had looked upon
the face of Him who is the light and life of the world. Let her
enjoy the brief ecstasy. Never chill the soul that is thrilling with
the first strong pulses of spiritual life by discouraging doubts.
Remind such, if you will, that now, as with the disciples of old,
the moments on the Mount of Transfiguration are few, and the days
of work and self-denial on the lowly plain many. But do not fail to
close your homily with the assurance that the work and self-denial
are of earth, while the illumined mount is the type of an eternal
heaven.

The evening was passing. While devotion burned more brightly, sentiment
was flickering out. The others were growing weary. Hemstead had
the tact to see this, and he also wished to be alone that he might
think over the bewildering experiences of the day. Therefore he
suggested that they close with Ray Palmer's beautiful hymn, that
from the first moment of faith, until faith's fruition, is the
appropriate language of those who accept of God's remedy for evil.


    "My faith looks up to Thee,
    Thou Lamb of Calvary,
        Saviour divine.
    Now hear me while I pray,
    Take all my guilt away,
    O, let me from this day
        Be wholly Thine."


He hoped that with Lottie it might crown the teachings of the day,
and fix her thoughts on the true source of help.

This hope found a richer fulfilment than he expected, for to her
awakened spirit the lines seemed inspired to express her deepest
need. As the last words trembled from her lips the rush of feeling
was too strong for repression, and she impetuously left the room.






CHAPTER XXI.

MISUNDERSTOOD.





Lottie was conscious of a strange lightness of heart when she
awoke on the morrow. It seemed as if her life had been unexpectedly
enriched. She could not understand it, nor did she seek to, being
contented with the fact that she was happy. She had always been
seeking her own enjoyment, and now she was happier than ever before.
She was not a philosopher who must analyze everything. She widely
differed from some prudent people who must take an emotion to pieces,
and resolve it into its original elements, and thus be sure that
it is properly caused and wholesome before enjoying it. Many seem
to partake of life's pleasures as did the members of the royal
family of their feasts, in the days of the ancient Roman empire,
when it was feared that poison lurked in every dish.

We have seen, however, that Lottie was not morbidly conscientious.
She had gathered honey everywhere, and often in spite of conscience's
protest. But now, for a rarity, conscience appeared with, and not
against her. She was satisfied with the fact that she felt better
than ever before; and the majority of even somewhat experienced
Christians ask, as their ground of confidence, not "What is truth?"
"What has God promised?"--but, "How do I feel to-day?" Little
wonder, then, if inexperienced Lottie, with everything to learn,
was content with being happy.

She had always looked upon religion as a painful necessity at some
remote and desperate emergency of the future; but, after the hours
spent with Hemstead, it seemed a source of joy beyond all the
pleasures of her highly favored life. She was like one who had
been living in the glare of artificial light, brilliant enough, it
is true, but who had suddenly come out into the natural sunshine,
and found it warmer, sweeter,--in brief, just what she craved and
needed.

The distrust of these exalted and emotional states is general, and
often well-founded, especially when experienced by such mercurial
temperaments as that of Lottie Marsden. And when it is remembered
that her ideas of true religion were of the vaguest kind, the
conservative will think, "Whatever may take place in a book, the
morning dew would be the type of all this feeling in real life."

And this would be true--alas, it is true of multitudes--had she
been stirred by merely human causes, as sympathetic excitement,
or appeals to her feelings or fears. But, as we have said before,
she had looked upon the face of the Son of God. Circumstances, and
the story of Lazarus, had concentrated her mind on Jesus Christ,
as in that old and touching record He stands before the world in
one of His most winning attitudes. She did not understand how she
connected with Him the hope and happiness she felt.  She was no doubt
like many who, eighteen centuries ago, knew little of Christ, but
in the midst of their pain and anguish suddenly felt his healing
touch, and exulted with great joy, forgetting that only one disease had
been cured, or one trouble banished, and that they still remained
in a world where pain and trouble threatened to the very end.
But here was the ground of hope for those whom Jesus touched, as
well as for Lottie: in curing one evil, He had proved His power
and willingness to remove every evil, and when pain of body and
the suffering of guilt again oppressed, the true source of help
was known, and so Christ eventually became their Good Physician,
intrusted with the entire care of their spiritual health.

No doubt at the time of Christ many a heart was stirred and borne
heavenward, on the wings of strong emotion, by the eloquence of
some gifted rabbi, by a gorgeous ceremonial in the Temple, or by
the chantings of the multitudinous priests. But the emotions passed
away, as they do now; and men and women relapsed into their old,
material, selfish lives.  They may have looked back with regret
upon the ecstasy that once thrilled them, and wished that it could
always have been maintained; but they found this impossible.  So,
now, the emotion goes, and the combinations that once produced it
never return, or fail to inspire it again.  Looking to themselves
and their own feelings,--to inadequate means of help,--such persons
are of course disappointed; and so gradually grow hard and legal,
or apathetic and unbelieving. When in trouble, when the natural
springs of life begin to fail, there seems no real and practical
help.

If human experience proves anything it is that every life needs
the personal and practical help-the direct touch and word--of One
who is Divinely powerful and Divinely patient.

Many days of folly--of sin, sorrow, and deep despondency--are
before Lottie still; but she has seen her God weeping from sympathy
with weak humanity, and a moment later rescuing from the hopeless
extremity of death and corruption. Here is not some vague thing
like a half-forgotten emotion or an exalted religious experience
in which to trust, but One who, instead of being a vanished,
half-forgotten sensation, a philosophy, or even a sound creed and
a logical doctrine, is a living personal and powerful Friend, who
can put forth His hand and sustain, as He did the timid Apostle
who was sinking in the threatening waves.

The temple of Lottie's faith was yet to be built; but she had been
so fortunate as to commence with the true "corner stone."

During the morning hours she was the object of considerable and
perplexed thought on the part of several of the household. There
was in her face the sweet spiritual radiance of the evening before,
and the same gentleness and considerateness of manner marked her
action. Mrs. Marchmont and her daughter said, "It is one of Lottie's
moods." Bel surmised that she was a little sentimental over Hemstead,
and was indignant that she should herself indulge, and awake in the
student, feelings that doubtless, on Lottie's part, would end with
the visit. As for De Forrest, he was thoroughly puzzled. The idea
that Hemstead could be anything to her was perfectly preposterous;
and as for religion, that was a decorous thing of form and ceremonial
pertaining to Sunday, and this was Monday. And yet, from some cause,
Lottie seemed different from her old self.

He could not complain, however, for she had never been kinder to
him; and if her eyes did seek Hemstead's face rather often, she
could see nothing there which for a moment could compare with his
own handsome features. He also concluded that it was a "mood"; but
liked the new and gentle Lottie quite as well as the piquant, and
often rather brusque girl of other days.

But to Hemstead, as with chatting and reading they whiled away
the morning hours around the parlor fire, Lottie was the bright
particular star. Her face, now transfigured in its spiritual light,
captivated his beauty-loving soul; while her words and manner
suggested the hope that she, with himself, had found her way into
the Holy of Holies. If this could ever be true, he felt that he
could go to his work in the Western wilds, content and grateful,
and that a long and toilsome life would be illumined by this dear
memory. He, too, like Lottie, was on the Mount; but both would soon
have to come down to the plain where the "multitude" was, and some
of them "lunatic"; and when in the plain they would be very much
like the multitude.

After dinner, in compliance with an invitation from Dr.  Beams,
they all went over to the church, to aid in decorating it with
evergreens. They found Miss Martell and several other ladies at
work; also a sprinkling of gentlemen and a few young men who were
on the border line between boys and beaux, and who were frequently
passing from one character to the other.

Miss Martell greeted Hemstead more cordially than she did any of
the others in the party from Mrs. Marchmont's; and seemed slightly
surprised at Lottie's gentle and hearty salutation.

De Forrest remained closely at the latter's side, but Hemstead
noted with deep and secret satisfaction that there was in her
grave kindness nothing responsive to his constant and lover-like
attention. Her brow often contracted, as if his sentiment annoyed
her, and she treated him as one who, for some reason, must be borne
with patiently.

"She is probably engaged, but is ceasing to love him," he thought.
"She never could have respected him, and now be has forfeited whatever
affection she may have had. Still she feels that she is chained
to him, and must endure the life-long martyrdom of an ill-mated
marriage"; and his heart overflowed with a great pity.

It did not occur to him that he was a miracle of disinterestedness
when Lottie was concerned; and that her troubles moved him more than
the woes of all the world beside. Like many another life-voyager,
with hand upon the helm, he thought that he was directing his course,
when in feet a strong and subtile current was sweeping him he not
whither.

He and Lottie did not have much to say to each but their eyes
often met, and at times, in his frank impulsiveness, he looked at
her so earnestly and sympathetically that she turned away to hide
her heightened color. She was becoming conscious, with a secret
wonder, that he, as no man ever before, had the power to cause her
blood to ebb and flow in the most unaccountable manner.

A short time after their arrival he wandered over to the side of the
chapel where Miss Martell was working, and she seemingly fascinated
him. They apparently became so absorbed in each other's words as
to think of no one else, and Lottie grew pale and quiet, feeling,
in the mean time, an unreasonable resentment towards Miss Martell.
If Lottie has received a little grace, she is, and ever will be,
the natural possessor of abundance of human nature.  Is this pale
and silent girl the one whose cheeks, a little before, were aflame,
and every nerve tingling with the most unwonted sensations, and
for no better reason apparently than that Hemstead had seen her
tugging at a fibrous spray of hemlock, and had severed it with his
knife? That was all the others had seen; but there was a great deal
more, for in the act their hands had touched, and both had seemed
in a positive state in the power to give, and in the negative
in readiness to receive, a subtile influence, compared with which
electricity is a slow and material agent.  And he had lifted his
large gray eyes to hers full of--he did not realize what, nor did
she--but the cause was there, and the effect followed.

But now, with secret uneasiness, Lottie notes that he seems oblivious
of her in his eager talk with Miss Martell.

Soon after joining the latter, Hemstead had said, in his
straightforward manner, "You intimated to Mr. Harcourt yesterday
that you were 'sorry he heard my sermon.'"

With a little embarrassment she replied, "I do not think that Mr.
Harcourt was in the right condition of mind to be benefited by your
line of thought."

"Do you think that any one could be benefited by it?"

She was a little puzzled. Was he, like some young clergy-men she
had known, eager for a few crumbs of praise for his first crude
efforts? She was not one to give any faint and hollow commendation,
and yet she did not wish to hurt his feelings. But her reply had
a tinge of satire in it, for she had no patience with the weakness
of vanity.

"I will hardly venture an opinion. You, who have given so much time
and thought to these subjects, ought to be a better judge than I."

He felt, rather than saw, the delicate barb, and flushed slightly
as he replied, "I admit that perhaps I ought to be, but whether
I am or not, is quite another question. I am sure that your views
upon the subjects treated yesterday are far truer than mine were.
The wretched, heretical sermon that I inflicted upon you has already
justly suffered an auto da fe. Before the day was over I saw that
instead of preaching the gospel I had been elaborating, from a
partial premise, a crude view of my own. I shall no longer preach,
that is, if I preach at all, as if human nature were the raw material
which God intended to work up without any regard to the process,
or how much refuse there was, or what became of it. Is not Christ
weeping from sympathy at the grave of Lazarus a true manifestation
of God's feeling toward us?"

"Mr. Hemstead," Miss Martell exclaimed, "I cannot tell you how glad
I am to know your change of views.  Most emphatically I say yes to
your question. God is seeking to develop my character; only He is
more patient and gentle than my good, kind father. But why do you
say, 'If I preach at all'?"

His head bowed in honest humility, as he replied, in a low tone,
"I often doubt whether I am worthy,--whether I am called."

She now saw that she had misjudged him, and was eager to reassure
and confirm his purpose for life; and the converse that followed
had grown so absorbing as to cause Hemstead to forget for the time
one, who by some right, divine or otherwise, had suddenly taken
possession of his thoughts with a despotism as sweet as absolute.

But while Miss Martell was speaking most earnestly to Hemstead,
she saw some one enter the chapel door. Her color came and went.
The sentence upon her lips faltered to a lame conclusion, and though
she became deeply absorbed in the process of twining the fragrant
cedar with the shiny laurel, she did not work as deftly as before.
Looking round to see the cause, Hemstead caught one of Lottie's
reproachful glances, and was soon at her side with a sense of almost
guilty neglect.

Addie Marchmont found work of any kind, even preparation for the
Christmas festival, stupid and tiresome; therefore she welcomed
the diversion of Harcourt's coming with double zest; and with
extravagant exclamations of delight summoned him to her side. Miss
Martell stood at some distance, and had turned her back towards
them.  Harcourt did not see her at first, but the quest of his
restless eyes indicated his hope that she was there. In the mean
time he laughed and jested with Addie in something of his old-time
style.

Lottie Marsden, like many of her young American sisters, could be
decidedly pronounced at times; but a certain amount of grace and
good taste characterized her manner.  Addie had never been taught
restraint of any kind, and to her a church was just the place for
a little wild nonsense, and all present were compelled to feel that
both her words and manner went beyond the limits of good taste,
to say the least. To Harcourt, in his present state of mind, they
were so annoying as to be almost offensive, and, thinking that
Miss Martell was not present, he was about to leave the church in
order to escape.

But Miss Martell, with her back towards them, had no means of knowing
that Harcourt was not encouraging Addie, and that her freedom with
him was not warranted by their relations.

"I have an engagement," said Harcourt, abruptly; and he was about
to hasten away, when between intervening groups his eye caught a
glimpse of a figure rising for a moment out of one of the high-backed
pews, and suggesting to him the object of his thoughts. As he
stepped over to speak to Lottie, his eye lingered in that direction.
Instead of going directly out, he strolled to the farther end of
the audience room, speaking and bowing to one and another, but not
permitting his eyes to wander long from the bent figure of a lady
who sat with her back towards him, apparently wholly absorbed in
wreathing evergreens.

She felt that he was coming towards her,--she heard his voice, and
soon knew that his eyes were scanning her downcast face,--but she
would not look up till he spoke.

"Won't you deign me even a glance, Miss Martell?" he asked.

The color deepened somewhat in her cheeks, but she looked him full in
the face, and said quietly, "Why use the word 'deign,' Mr. Harcourt?"

"I suppose because my conscience suggests that from you I deserve
glances of dis-dain."

"Such 'glances' are not becoming from any one, and certainly not
from me. Besides," she added, a little bitterly, at the thought of
such a brainless, frivolous girl as Addie Marchmont enchaining a
man like Harcourt, "people do not get their deserts in this world."

"You certainly will not."

"How is that?" she asked quickly, not taking his meaning,

"The world is not rich enough to give it you."

Her brow contracted into a sudden frown, and she said, a trifle
coldly, "I do not enjoy that style of compliment, Mr.  Harcourt."

"Is there any that you do enjoy?"

Her head bent over her work; her thoughts were swift and many,
and in the quiet moment that Harcourt waited for an answer to his
commonplace question, she fought and iron a battle which, if never
known on earth, would never be forgotten in heaven. She mastered
self and selfishness, in the very citadel of their strength. Fierce
though brief was the struggle that took place beneath that gentle,
calm exterior, for the human heart is ever the same,--wilful,
passionate. With many it is often like the wild storm that will
spend itself to the end, no matter how much of wreck and ruin is
wrought. With such as Miss Martell, it is like the storm which, at
its height, heard the words of the Divine Master, "Peace, be still."

"Let him marry Addie Marchmont if he will," she concluded. "I will
be kind and gentle to him all the same, and, cost me what it may,
I will still see him, and seek to make him a true, good man."

So with woman's tact she turned his question, which savored only
of sentimental gallantry, to good account, and said quietly, "You
know the only 'style of compliment' that I like, and you enriched
me with it at Mrs. Byram's company,--the promise you made me."

Harcourt sighed involuntarily. She seemed too angelic,--too far
above and beyond him. As with a ministering spirit from heaven,
her only thought was to win him from evil. Her face was pale from
the hidden conflict which had cost her more dearly than he would ever
know. Her eyes beamed upon him with a gentle, yet sweet, strange,
spiritual light. She scarcely appeared flesh and blood.  But he was
very human, and his heart craved from her human love and earthly
solace. Though now, as at other times, this seemed as presumptuous
to him as if some devotee had sacrilegiously fallen in love with
his fair patron saint, still he felt a sudden and strong irritation
that they should be so far apart.

She misunderstood his sigh, and added, "Am I a hard task-mistress?"

He shook his head, but there was dejection in his tone as he replied,
"There have been many forms of idolatry in the world, but I have
thought that those who worshipped the stars must have become a
little discouraged at times,--they are so far off."

Her face had the pained expression of one misunderstood, but who
cannot well explain. She said only, "Idolatry is ever profitless."
She meant to hint, he thought, that his worship of her certainly
would be.

He was chilled at heart. His quick, impetuous spirit prompted him
towards recklessness. She saw that he was about to leave abruptly.
As she played to win him, not for herself, but heaven, she saw that
she had made a mistaken move, though she could not understand his
manner. In her maidenly pride and delicacy, she would have let him
go if she had thought only of herself; but, conscious of her other
motive, she could seek to detain him, and asked, "What did you
mean, Mr. Harcourt, by your fanciful allusion to star-worship?"

"I meant," he replied bitterly, "that to ordinary flesh and blood,
kneeling in the cold before a distant star, be it ever so bright,
is rather chilling and discouraging. The Greeks were shrewder.
They had goddesses with warm, helping hands, and with a little
sympathetic, human imperfection."

It hurt her cruelly that he so misjudged her; and in her confusion,
she again said that which he interpreted wrongly.

"It is folly, then, to worship anything so cold and distant." She
was about to add plainly, "I am neither a star nor a goddess, but a
sincere, human friend,--human as yourself." She was about to make
some delicate allusion to the time when he often sought her sisterly
advice. But he, in the blindness of strong feeling, saw in her
words only rebuke for the presumption of his love, and he harshly
interrupted her.

"No doubt it is; but let me remind you of a fact often true
in missionary experience. After the poor devils have been bereft
of the objects of their fond and credulous worship, by proof that
their deities are indifferent, they cease to have any faith at
all"; and with a cold and rather formal bow he left her side and
also left the church.

Miss Martell's head bent lower than ever over her work, and it
was a long time before she lifted it or spoke to any one. But the
others were occupied with themselves, and no one had noted this
little side scene save Addie, who pouted that Harcourt had remained,
but not at her side, after his expressed intention of leaving. No
one surmised that two who had been present were sorely hurt. When
we receive our slight cuts and bruises through life, there are
usually outcry and abundant sympathy. But when we receive our deep
wounds, that leave scars, often only God knows; and it is best so,
for He can heal, but the world can only probe.






CHAPTER XXII.

"YOU MUST WAIT AND SEE."





"How can you leave Miss Martell?" asked Lottie, as Hemstead approached
propitiatingly with a large armful of the choicest evergreens.

"Well, I can," he replied with a smile.

"As yet, but the next time you will stay longer, and the next longer
still."

"That depends. I would not remain at her side, nor at any one's,
if I thought they were tiring of me a little."

"O, she got tired of you."

"Well, yes; a little, I think. She suddenly seemed to lose her
interest in the conversation. Still she was very good to talk to
me as long and as kindly as she did. She is a very superior woman.
It has never been my good fortune to meet just such a lady before."

"Make the most of your rare 'good fortune.'"

"I have."

"And now that she is tired of you, you come back to me as a dernier
ressort."

"Coming back to you, is like coming back home, for you have given
me the only home-like feeling that I have had during my visit."

The language of coquetry was to Lottie like her mother-tongue, and
she fell into it as naturally as she breathed.  Only now, instead
of suggesting the false hope that he had been missed and she had
cared, it expressed her true feeling, for she did care.

De Forrest now returned from a momentary absence, and had it not
been for his garrulity the little group would have been a rather
silent one. Both young men sought to supply Lottie with the sprays
of green that she was twining. She took the evergreens chiefly from
De Forrest's hands, but gave her thoughts and eyes to Hemstead. He,
with man's usual penetration, thought De Forrest the favored one,
and was inclined to reverse his half-formed opinion that she was
destined to pathetic martyrdom, because bound by an engagement to
a man whom she could not love.

"He can't think much of me," thought Lottie, with a sigh, "or he
couldn't speak so frankly." She, too, was losing her wonted quick
discernment.

Only lynx-eyed Bel Parton partially surmised the truth, and suspected
that Lottie was developing a genuine, though of course a passing
interest, in the student whom at first she had purposed to beguile
in mere reckless sport.

During the remainder of the afternoon and evening, De Forrest was
Lottie's shadow, and she could escape him, and be with Hemstead, only
by remaining with all the others.  She was longing for another of
their suggestive talks, when, without the restraint of the curious
and unsympathetic, they could continue the theme that De Forrest
had interrupted on Sunday afternoon.

She was thinking how to bring this about, when the old plan of
visiting Mrs. Dlimm occurred to her, and she adopted it at once.

Getting a moment aside with Hemstead, by being down to breakfast a
little before the others, she said, "After my naughty behavior in
regard to our visit to Mrs. Dlimm, will you still take me there?"

"I wish you would give me a chance," he answered eagerly.

"Well, I will, at ten this morning. But please say nothing about it.
Drive to the door in the cutter, and I will be ready. If the matter
is discussed, there may be half a dozen other projects started."

Hemstead ate but an indifferent breakfast, and there was also a
faint glow of expectant excitement in Lottie's face.

Hemstead promptly sought his aunt, and asked if he might have a
horse and the single sleigh.

"I hope another time will answer," said Mrs. Marchmont, carelessly.
"Addie wishes the horses this morning, but I believe proposes taking
you all out."

But Hemstead was not to be baffled, and acted with more energy than
prudence perhaps. Lottie from her window saw him posting with long
strides towards the village, and exultingly surmised his object.
At ten he drove up to the door with a neat little turnout from the
livery stable; and she tripped down and took a seat at his side,
and they were off before the rest of the household realized their
purpose.

They all looked at each other questioningly, as a few moments later
they gathered in the parlor for a general sleighride.

Mr. Dimmerly, who had quietly watched proceedings, broke out into
his cackling laugh, as he chuckled, "He shows his blood. A dozen
seminaries could not quench him utterly."

Mrs. Marchmont frowned. She rigidly applied the rules of propriety
to all save her own children, and she justly thought that both
Hemstead and Lottie had failed in courtesy to her and her guests,
by stealing away, as it were, without any explanations. But people
of one idea often fail in more than mere matters of courtesy; and
Hemstead and Lottie were emphatically becoming people of one idea.
And they both had misgivings and a sense of wrong-doing as they
drove away without a word of explanation.

Mrs. Marchmont was still more puzzled when Addie exclaimed petulantly,
"I thought the agreement was that Lottie should carry out the joke
when and where we could all enjoy it."

The lady was led to suspect that there was something on foot that
might need her investigation, and she quietly resolved to use her
eyes and ears judiciously. She well knew that her proud and fashionable
sister, Lottie's mother, would hold her to strict account if Lottie
did anything foolish.

Bel merely shrugged her shoulders cynically. She had a certain kind
of loyalty to her friend, and said all her harsh things to Lottie
herself, and not behind her back.

De Forrest had no other resource than to believe that Lottie was
carrying out the practical joke; but a sorry jest he found it that
morning, during which he scarcely spoke to any one.

They drove over to town for Harcourt, but he greatly provoked Addie
by pleading that his business would not permit absence. During
the rest of the drive they all might have formed part of a funeral
procession.

But the snow-crystals did not sparkle in the sunlight more brightly
than Lottie's eyes, as she turned to her companion, and said, "I
am so delighted that we are safely off on our drive."

"O, it's the 'drive' you are thinking of. That is better than I
hoped. I thought we were visiting Mrs. Dlimm."

"So we are, and I want to see her too," said Lottie, with a sudden
blush.

"Well, I'm glad you don't dread the long, intervening miles, with
no better company than mine."

"It's a good chance to learn patient endurance," she replied, with
a look delightfully arch. "So please drive slower."

The horse instantly came to a walk.

"That is the other extreme," she continued. "You always go to
extremes, as, for instance, your quixotic purpose to go out among
the border ruffians."

"Honestly, Miss Marsden," said Hemstead, his laughing face suddenly
becoming grave, "you do not now think, in your heart, my purpose
to be a home missionary 'quixotic'?"

"I don't know much about my heart, Mr. Hemstead, except that it
has always been very perverse. But I now wish I had a better one.
You have disturbed the equanimity with which I could do wrong most
wofully. I even feel a little guilty for leaving them all this
morning, with no explanations."

"It was hardly right, now I think of it," said Hemstead, reflectively.

"Have you just thought of it? How preoccupied you have been! What
have you been thinking about? Yes, it was wrong; but as it is the
first wicked thing I have caught you in I am quite comforted. I
have been hoping all along that you would do something just a little
bit encouragingly wicked."

"How little you understand me! My wickedness and consequent twinges
of conscience have been my chief sources of trouble thus far."

"O, well, your conscience is like Auntie Jane. A speck of dust gives
her the fidgets where other people would not see any dust at all.
If your conscience had to deal with my sins there would not be
ashes and hair-cloth enough for you."

"What good can ashes, hair-cloth, or any kind of self-punishment,
or even self-condemnation, do us?"

"Well, we ought to be sorry, at least."

"Certainly, but there must be more than that. Many a wrong-doer has
been sincerely sorry, but has been punished all the same. I cannot
tell you, Miss Marsden, how much good you did me on Sunday afternoon.
My mind had been dwelling on the attributes of God,--upon doctrines
as if they were things by themselves and complete in themselves.
I almost fear that I should have become, as I fear some are,
the disciple of a religious system, instead of a simple and loyal
follower of Christ. But you fixed my eyes on a living personality,
who has the right to say, 'I forgive you,' and I am forgiven; who
has the right to say, 'I will save you,' and I am saved. If He is
the Divine Son of God, as He claims to be, has He not the right?"

"Yes. He must be able to do just what is pleasing to Him," said
Lottie.

"Then look upon Him as you saw Him at the grave of Lazarus,--the
very embodiment of sympathy. Suppose that in sincere regret for
all the wrong you have ever done, and with the honest wish to be
better, you go to such a being and cry, 'Forgive.' Can you doubt
His natural, inevitable course towards you? If pardoning love
and mercy should encircle you at once, would it not be in perfect
keeping with His tears of sympathy?"

"And is that all I have to do to get rid of the old, dark record
against me? O, how black it looked last Saturday!"

"That is all. What more can you do? Who was it that said, 'Be of
good cheer, thy sins be forgiven thee'?"

"Mr. Hemstead," said Lottie, in a low tone, "I have felt very
strangely--differently from any time before in all my life--since
last Sunday afternoon. I seemed to look upon Christ as if He were
before me, and I saw the tears in His eyes, as I saw them in yours
the evening you said such plain things to me, and I have felt a
peculiar lightness of heart ever since. That hymn we sang on Sunday
evening expressed so exactly what I felt that I was overpowered.
It appeared written for me alone. Do you think that I can be a
Christian?"

Hemstead's eyes glistened, and his heart bounded at the thought;
but he felt that he was in a grave and responsible position, and
after a moment's thought answered wisely: 'I can base no safe and
positive answer on your feeling. I have already learned, from my own
experience and that of others, that religious feeling is something
that comes and goes, and cannot be depended upon. The test question
is, How will you treat this Jesus whom you have seen, and who has
proved Himself both worthy to win and keep your trust?  A little
strong feeling and sentiment in regard to Him can.  not do you much
good. What practical relation do you intend to hold towards Him?
No doubt many that saw Him weep, and then raise Lazarus after he
had been four days dead, were profoundly moved, but the majority
went on in their old ways all the same. You abound in strong common
sense, and must see that more that even sincere, deep feeling is
necessary. What do you propose to DO?  Are you willing to take up
your cross and become His faithful follower?"

"That involves a great deal," said Lottie, with a long breath.

"It does indeed," he replied earnestly. "I would give my life to
make you a Christian, and yet I would not seek to win you for Him
by false pretences, or hide any part of the rugged path of self-denial.
Count well the cost. But, believe me, Miss Marsden," he added, in
a tone that brought a sudden paleness to her cheek, "not following
Him involves far more that is sad and terrible."

Tears stood in Lottie's eyes. She was silent a few moments, and was
evidently thinking deeply. The young clergyman was desperately in
earnest, and fairly trembled in the eagerness of his expectation.
He hoped that Lottie would come to a solemn and half-heroic and
formal decision. But he was both puzzled and disappointed by the
sudden and brusque manner with which she turned upon him as she
said: "Where is the heavy cross that I must take up? Show it to
me, and I will think about it. Where is the rugged path? This one
that leads to Mrs. Dlimm is very pleasant. I don't see anything
very awful in being a Christian nowadays. Of course I shall have
to give up all my old nonsense and flirt--Well, I suppose I might
as well say it out. But there are no Inquisitions, with thumbscrews
and racks, any longer. Come, Mr. Hemstead, you are a Christian.
What heavy cross are you bearing? I hope you are not in the rugged
path of self-denial this morning, while taking me to Mrs. Dlimm's.
I don't know any one who appears to enjoy the good things of life
more than you. I don't know what answer to give to your solemn and
far-reaching questions. I haven't much confidence in what Lottie
Marsden will do. All I know is that I feel as I imagine one of
those children did whom Jesus took in his arms and blessed."

"But suppose," urged her anxious spiritual guide, who felt that
she was giving a reason for her faith that would hardly satisfy the
grave elders of the church,--"suppose that at some future time He
should impose a heavy cross, or ask of you painful self-denial,
would you shrink?"

She turned her dewy eyes upon him with a look of mingled archness
and earnestness that he never forgot, and said significantly, "I
do not remember the New Testament story very perfectly, but when
the last, dark days came, women stood by their Lord as faithfully
as the men,--didn't they?"

Hemstead bowed his head in sudden humility, and said: "You are
right. It was not woman who betrayed, nor did woman desert or deny
Him. Still I treasure the suggestion of your answer beyond all
words."

The tears stood thick in Lottie's eyes, and she was provoked that
they did. Her strong feelings were quick to find expression, and
Hemstead seemed to have the power, as no one else ever had, to evoke
them. But she had a morbid dislike of showing emotion or anything
verging toward sentiment; therefore she would persist in giving a
light and playful turn to his sombre earnestness.

"I did not mean," she said, "to be so hard upon the men, nor to
secure so rich a tribute to my sex. I imagine we all stand in need
of charity alike. Only do not expect too much of me. I dare not
promise anything. You must wait and see."

"Though you promise so little, you inspire me with more confidence
than many whom I have heard make great professions"; and the light
of a great joy and a great hope shone in his eyes.

"You look very happy, Mr. Hemstead," said Lottie, gratefully. "Would
you be very glad to have me become a Christian?"

He looked at her so earnestly that the rich blood mounted to her
very brow. After a moment, he replied, in a low, trembling tone:
"I scarcely dare trust myself to answer your question, and yet I
do not exaggerate when I assure you that if I could feel that you
were a Christian before I go away, it seems as if I could never
see a dark day again.  O Miss Marsden, how I have hoped and prayed
that you might become one!"

Her head bowed low in guilty shame. She compared her purpose towards
him with his towards her. Before she thought, the words slipped
out, "And for all my wrong to you, you seek to give me heaven in
return."

He looked at her inquiringly, not understanding her remark; but
after a moment said, "It would be heaven to me on earth, even in
my lonely work in the West, if I could remember that, as a result
of our brief acquaintance, you had become a Christian."

"Well," she said emphatically, "our acquaintance does promise to
end differently from what I expected; and it is because you are
different. You are not the kind of a man that I expected you would
be."

"But I understood you from the first," remarked Hemstead, complacently.
"My first impression when you gave me your warm hand, and the only
true welcome I received, has been borne out. Though at times you
have puzzled me, still, the proof you gave--on the evening of my
arrival--of a true, generous, and womanly nature, has been confirmed
again and again. It has seemed to me that your faults were due
largely to circumstances, but that your good qualities were native."

Again Lottie turned away her burning cheeks in deep embarrassment.
Should she tell him all? She felt she could not. To lose his good
opinion and friendship now seemed terrible. But conscience demanded
that she should be perfectly frank and sincere with him, and her
fears whispered, "He may learn it from the others, and that would
be far worse than if I told him myself."

But her moral strength was not yet equal to the test. The old,
prevailing influences of her life again swayed her, and she guided
the conversation from the topic as a pilot would shun a dangerous
rock.

"I will tell him all about it at some future time," she thought;
"but not yet when the knowledge might drive him away in anger."

She seized upon one of his words, which, when spoken, had jarred
unpleasantly upon her feeling.

"Why do you speak of our acquaintance as brief? Are we to be
strangers again after this short visit is over?"

"I most positively assure you that you can never be a stranger to
me again," he said eagerly. "But in a few days you will go to New
York, and I thousands of miles in another direction. If I should
tell you how you will dwell in my thoughts like an inspiration,
I fear you would think me sentimental. But in your absorbing city
life I fear that I shall soon become as a stranger to you."

"Well," said Lottie, averting her face, "I don't think I'll promise
you anything this time either. You must wait and see. But is that
dreadful frontier life of yours a foregone conclusion?"

"Yes," he said, with quiet emphasis.

"There are plenty of heathen in New York, Mr. Hemstead. You found
one of them in me, and see how much good you have done; at least,
I hope you have."

"There are also plenty of Christians in New York to take care of
them. I commend some of the heathen to you."

"I fear that they will remain heathen for all that I can do."

"No, indeed, Miss Marsden. Please never think that.  No one has a
right to say, 'I can do nothing,' and you least of all. Apart from
your other gifts, you abound in personal magnetism, and almost
instantly gain control of those around you."

"How mistaken you are! I have no control over you."

"More than you think, perhaps," he said, flushing deeply.

It was his heart that spoke then, and not his will, instructed by
deliberate reason.

She too blushed, but said laughingly, "What are words?  Let me test
my power. Take a church in New York, instead of a thousand miles
out of the world."

"You are not in earnest," he said, a little sadly. "You would not
seek to dissuade me from what I regard as a sacred duty?"

"But is it 'a sacred duty'? There are plenty of others--less
cultivated, less capable of doing good--in the refined and critical
East."

"That is not the way a soldier reasons. Some one must go to the
front of the battle. And what excuse can such a vigorous young
fellow as I am have for hanging back?"

As he turned his glowing face upon her she caught his enthusiasm,
and said impulsively, "And in the front of the battle I would be,
if I were a man, as I often wish I were."

"The line of God's battle with evil is very long, Miss Marsden. I
think you can find the front in New York as truly as I in the West.
In this fight woman can often do as much as man. Won't you try?"

"I shall not promise you anything," she said. "You must wait and
see."

They were now before the parsonage in the hamlet of Scrub Oaks. The
sound of the bells brought Mrs. Dlimm's faded face to the window,
and on recognizing them she clapped her hands for joy, as one of
her own children might have done; and a moment later was smiling
upon the little porch, the very embodiment of welcome.






CHAPTER XXIII.

A RATIONALIST OF THE OLD SCHOOL.





"I knew you would come," said Mrs. Dlimm, taking both of Lottie's
hands with utter absence of formality.  "Husband said I needn't look
for you any more, but I felt it in my bones--no, my heart--that you
would come.  When I feel a thing is going to take place it always
does.  So you are here. I am very glad to see your--Mr. Hemstead--too.
This is splendid." And Mrs. Dlimm exultantly ushered Lottie into
the room that, when last seen, was crowded with such a motley
assembly. Hemstead meanwhile drove the horse to an adjacent shed.

"But he isn't my Mr. Hemstead," said Lottie, laughing.

"Well, it seems as if he were related, or belonged to you in some
way. When I think of one, I can't help thinking of the other."

"O dear!" exclaimed Lottie, still laughing, blushing, and affecting
comic alarm; "being joined together by a minister's wife is almost
as bad as by the minister himself."

"Almost as good, you mean. You would have my congratulation rather
than sympathy if you secured such a prince among men."

"How little you know about him, Mrs. Dlimm! He is going to be a
poor, forlorn home missionary; and your husband's increased salary
will be royal compared with his."

"He will never be forlorn; and how long will he be poor?"

--"All his life possibly."

"That's not very long. What will come after? What kind of a master
is he serving?"

"Do you know," said Lottie, lowering her tone, and giving her
chair a little confidential hitch toward the simple-hearted lady
with whom formality and circumlocution were impossible, "that I am
beginning to think about these things a great deal?"

"I don't wonder, my dear," said Mrs. Dlimm, with a little sigh of
satisfaction. "No one could help thinking about him who saw his
manly courtesy and tact the evening you were here."

"O, no," said Lottie, blushing still more deeply; "I did not mean
that. Please understand me. Mr. Hemstead is only a chance acquaintance
that I have met while visiting my aunt, Mrs. Marchmont. I mean that
when I was here last I was a very naughty girl, but I have since
been thinking how I could be a better one. Indeed, I should like
to be a Christian, as you are."

In a moment the little lady was all tender solicitude. She was one
who believed in conversion; and, to her, being converted was the
greatest event of life.

But just then Hemstead entered, and she had enough natural, womanly
interest--not curiosity--to note the unconscious welcome of Lottie's
eyes, and the quick color come and go in her face, as if a fire
were burning in her heart and throwing its flickering light upon
her fair features.

"Chance acquaintance, indeed!" she thought. "Why, here is this
city-bred girl blushing as I once did about Mr.  Dlimm. Whether
she knows it or not, her blushes must tell the same story as mine."

But though Mrs. Dlimm was so unconventional, she had tact, and
turned the conversation to the subject of the donation party.

"See here," she exclaimed exultantly, tugging a bulky commentary;
"this is one of the results of your coming the other evening. Mr.
Dlimm has been wanting this book a long time, and now he pores over
it so much that I am getting jealous."

"The opinions expressed in such a ponderous volume ought to have
great weight, surely," said Hemstead, smiling.

"And do you know," she continued, in an aside to Lottie, "that each
of the children has had a new warm winter suit?  and, wonderful to
tell, I have bought myself a dress right from the store, instead
of making over something sent me by brother Abel's wife from New
York."

Lottie's eyes moistened, and she said in half soliloquy, "I didn't
know it was so nice and easy to make others happy."

"Ah! depend upon it, you are learning lots of things," said Mrs.
Dlimm, significantly. "When God begins to teach, then we do learn,
and something worth knowing, too."

"I thought that God's lessons were very hard and painful," said
Lottie to Hemstead, with a spice of mischief in her manner.

"Mrs. Dlimm is a better authority than I was," he replied.  "Do you
know," he continued, addressing their hostess, "that Miss Marsden
has done more to teach me how to preach than all my years at the
seminary?"

"Surely," exclaimed Mrs. Dlimm, "that's a rather strong statement.
I can understand how Miss Marsden can do a great deal for one. We
have had very nice experience in that direction; but just how she
should teach you more than all the grave professors and learned
text-books is not clear at once."

"Well, she has," he maintained stoutly. "I doubt whether your husband
gets as much light upon the Bible from that huge commentary there
as Miss Marsden gave me in one afternoon."

Mrs. Dlimm turned her eyes inquiringly toward Lottie, who said,
laughingly, "It would seem, last week, that I was a heathen and
Mr. Hemstead a heretic."

"And what are you now?"

"O, he's all right now."

"And not you?"

"I fear I shall always be a little crooked; but I hope I am not
exactly a heathen any longer."

"Miss Marsden was a heathen, as Nathanael was a shrewd and dishonest
Jew," said Hemstead.

"What kind of a Jew was Nathanael?" asked Lottie, innocently.

"Christ said, when he first saw him," replied Mrs. Dlimm, smiling,
"'Behold an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile.'"

Then both were puzzled at Lottie's sudden and painful flush, but
they ascribed it to her modesty; and Hemstead, to give her time
to recover herself, gave a brief sketch of his sermon, and how, in
the afternoon, while reading, at Lottie's suggestion, the complete
story of Lazarus, they both had seen the unspeakable sympathy of
Christ for those He sought to save.

"O dear!" thought Lottie, "when shall I escape the consequences of
my foolish jest? 'Without guile,' indeed!"

Mr. Dlimm now appeared, and he and Hemstead were soon discussing
the rendering of an obscure passage, upon which the big commentary
gave the conflicting opinions of a dozen learned doctors. Mrs.
Dlimm carried Lottie off to her sanctum, the nursery,--the fruitful
source of questions and mysteries the learned doctors would find
still more difficult to solve.

"And you are contented with this narrow round of life?" asked Lottie,
curiously, as Mrs. Dlimm finished the narration of what seemed to
her very tame experience.

"Narrow!" said Mrs. Dliram, reproachfully; "my life and work are
not narrow. I have six little immortals to train. A million years
hence they will either bless or reproach me. What consideration in
fashionable life is equal to that? Besides, my husband is engaged
in the same kind of work that brought the Son of God from heaven to
earth. It is my privilege to help him. Scrub Oaks is as much of a
place as many of the villages in which He preached, and I am grateful
that I can take part in so royal a calling."

"Mrs. Dlimm," said Lottie, with sudden animation, "I shouldn't
wonder if you and your husband were very great people in heaven."

"Oh!" cried the little lady, laughing. "We never think of that.
Why should we? But I know there will be a nook there for us, and
the thought makes me very happy."

"And you really and truly have been happy in all your toil and
privations?"

"Yes," said Mrs Dlimm, with a strange, far-away look coming into
her large blue eyes; "when everything on earth has been darkest
I have been most happy, and this has confirmed my faith. Little
children are sources of great joy, but they also cause much pain
and anxiety. Yet when I have been suffering most,--when the wardrobe
has been scanty and the larder almost bare,--God has taken me to
His heart as I clasp this child here, and comforted by assuring
me, 'Never fear, my child, I will take care of you and yours.' See
how He keeps His word. He sent you here, with your bright, sunny
face. He sent Mr. Hemstead here; and between you both we shall make
a long stage of our homeward journey most pleasantly."

"I never heard any one talk like you before," said Lottie, musingly.
"You seem to believe all the Bible says, as if it were actually
right before you."

"Believe! Why not? The idea of God not keeping His word!"

"And is faith just the certainty that God will keep His word?"

"That is just faith; and though this great world--for little bits
of which people lose their souls--shall pass away, God's word shall
stand until His least promise is fulfilled."

"That is not our creed on Fifth Avenue," said Lottie sadly. "The
world first, God last. But you sometimes, surely, wish that Mr.
Dlimm was rich, and that you could have for him and the children
and yourself all that heart could wish?"

"I used to feel so occasionally, but I have got past that now. God
loves my husband and children better than I do, and He will provide
what is best for us all. I simply try to rest in His arms as this
child does in mine."

"How strange it all is!" said Lottie, thoughtfully.

"Why strange? Your earthly father provides for you the best he can;
and if our Heavenly Father provides for us in the same way, surely
will not His be the better provision?  What an absurd, unnatural
thing it is to suppose there is anything better than what God will
give His own dear children.  Are not both earth and heaven His?
and He has promised the best of both to us."

"I can scarcely realize it all yet," said Lottie, with tears in
her eyes. "I suppose it is because you are so natural and true that
you seem so odd to me, who have been brought up among those that
I fear look at things in false lights."

"I think I understand you, my dear," said Mrs. Dlimm, hopefully.
"A child's penny toy will hide a great mountain if held too near
the eyes. It is thus the eyes of the worldly are blinded by trifles
till I fear some will never see God or heaven. But He is teaching
you better. As long as you follow His gentle leadings, and the pure
impulses of your own heart, all will be well. But as soon as you
begin to take counsel of the world and its self-seeking spirit, you
will find yourself in trouble. If we wish to prosper and be happy
in God's world, we must do His will. This is good, sound common
sense, which the experience of every age has borne out. It often
seems hard at first, my dear, as you will find out. The scourging
was very hard to bear; but Paul and Silas, singing in prison, with
their feet made fast in the stocks, were better off than their
jailer, who was about to kill himself, and the magistrates, who,
no doubt, were in mortal fear because of the earthquake. We, too,
can sing, whatever happens, as long as God and conscience are upon
our side."

It will thus be seen that Mrs. Dlimm was a rationalist as well as
a believer, though not of the new school.

For some reason, her philosophy was peculiarly acceptable to Lottie,
and, though scarcely conscious why, the exhortation to follow the
impulses of her own heart seemed especially natural and right; but
her fashionable mother would have been alarmed indeed, if she had
known that her beautiful daughter was becoming the disciple of Mrs.
Dlimm.

Though their call was by no means a short one, it passed all too
quickly. The memory of it would never fade from Lottie's mind;
and it became another link in the chain by which God was seeking
to bind her to a better future than her friends could dream of in
their earthly ambition.

"I am very glad I made this visit," Lottie said, as they were
hastening home lest they should be late to dinner. "It was very
kind of you to take me so far."

He turned and lifted his eyebrows comically.

"What do you mean by that?" she asked.

"To hear you, one would think that I had been a martyr for your
sake, while, in truth, I never enjoyed myself more."

"Yes," said she; "but you welcome afflictions and trials of your
patience."

"Would that I might be ever thus afflicted!" he exclaimed impulsively.
Then, suddenly becoming conscious of the natural suggestion of his
words, he blushed deeply; but not more so than Lottie, who turned
away her face to hide her flaming cheeks. He, misinterpreting
the act, thought that she meant a hint that such remarks were not
agreeable, and was thinking how to remedy what he now regarded
as a very foolish speech, when she, with woman's tact, led the
conversation to unembarrassing topics, and before they were aware
the horse stopped at Mrs. Marchmont's door.

Lottie disarmed both suspicion and censure to a considerable extent
by saying, "I had promised Mrs. Dlimm to come and see her again,
and wished to keep my word. I knew no one would care to go there
save Mr. Hemstead, so I took him to see the parson while I visited
the parson's wife. I enjoyed my call very much, too; and as Mr.
Hemstead and Mr. Dlimm had a great argument over a knotty theological
point, I suppose he feels somewhat repaid also."

This put matters in quite another light. That one should go to see
a parson's wife, and the other to discuss theology with the parson,
was very different from stealing off for an indefinite ride with
the purpose of being alone together. De Forrest was quite comforted,
and was even inclined to regard Lottie as rather considerate in not
asking him to accompany her when visiting such undesirable people
as the Dlimms.  Though why she should wish to visit them herself
was a mystery. But then, he thought, "Lottie is odd and full of
queer moods and whims. Let her indulge them now, because, as my wife,
they will scarcely be the thing." He was still more comforted by
noting that she did not have a great deal to say to Hemstead--indeed,
that she rather avoided him.

"She has had enough, and too much, of his heavy stupid company,"
he thought, "and finds that even the carrying out of the practical
joke is too hard work. If I can only get another good opportunity,
I won't wait till she goes to sleep before bringing the question
to an issue."

But Lottie gave him no opportunity, and, while kind and gentle
toward him, adroitly managed that they should never be alone.

And Hemstead also, who had found their private tete-a-tetes so
delightful and productive of good results, was equally unable to
be alone with her. Not that Lottie was averse, but because she saw
that lynx-eyed Bel was watching her; and again for the hundredth
time she wished her cynical friend back in the city.

Lottie's manner and apparent reserve were so marked at one time
that Hemstead began to grow troubled, though why he scarcely knew.
There was no cause, save the peculiar sensitiveness of one whose
sunshine is beginning to come, not from the skies, but from the
changing features of a fellow-mortal.

Lottie quickly saw his shadowed face, and surmised the cause. Soon
after, when his eyes were questioningly seeking hers, she gave him
such a sunny, genial smile as to assure him that, whatever might
be the cause of her somewhat distant manner, it did not result from
any estrangement from him.

Heretofore, when Lottie had liked a gentleman, she had been frank
in showing that preference within the limits of lady-like bearing.
But, for some reason, she began to grow excessively shy in manifesting
any interest in Hemstead that the others could note. The reason
with which she satisfied herself explained her feeling but partially.

"They will think I am still trying to carry out my wicked, foolish
joke."

But she did long for another unrestrained talk with him, and watched
keenly to secure it without exciting remark.  De Forrest did all
he could to prevent this, however, and Bel unconsciously became
his ally. With woman's quick perception, she saw that Lottie was
indulging in something more than a "mood," and felt that it was a
duty she owed to her friend to prevent mischief.

Thus Monday and Tuesday passed away, Lottie being too circumspect
to give Bel sufficient cause for speaking plainly.

Dan and Mr. Dimmerly were the only ones of the household who
regarded the change in Lottie with unmixed satisfaction. Not giving
a thought to the cause, they were pleased with the gentleness and
attention which resulted.

"Lottie," said her brother Dan, as she kissed him good-night,
after telling a marvellously good story, "what has come over you?
You make me think of Auntie Jane."

"I must be growing good indeed, if I remind any one of Auntie Jane,"
thought Lottie, exultantly.






CHAPTER XXIV.

THE TERROR OF A GREAT FEAR.





Long before Harcourt reached his law-office, he was satisfied that
he had blundered foolishly, and done Miss Martell great injustice. Her
right to refuse his unwelcome love was perfect, and her manner of
doing so, as he understood her, had been most delicate, even in his
estimation.  At the same time she had never given him the slightest
ground for his implied aspersion that in her pure, Christian life
she shone down upon him with the cold distance of a "star."

He recalled her words and bearing in Mrs. Byram's conservatory, and
the degree in which his unreasonable passion had blinded him grew
more apparent.

"Why should I expect her to love me?" he asked himself in bitterness.
"It is a hundred-fold more than I deserve, or had a right to hope,
that she should put out her hand to save me."

He was on the point of returning twenty times, and asking her
pardon for his folly, but that bane of our life,--that hinderance
to more good and happiness than perhaps any other one cause,--pride,
deterred, and Monday evening passed, an unhappy one to the object
of his thoughts as well as to himself.

On Tuesday pride was vanquished, and as soon as his business permitted
he repaired to the Martell mansion, eager to ask forgiveness. To his
deep disappointment, he learned that Mr. Martell and his daughter
had driven up to town, crossed on the ferry-boat, and were paying
some visits on the other side of the river.

He now purposed to call again as soon as they returned, but was
unexpectedly detained until quite late in the evening.  He approached
the familiar place that now enshrined, to him, the jewel of the
world, in both a humble and an heroic mood. He would not presume
again, but in silence live worthily of his love for one so lovely.
He would be more than content--yes, grateful--if she would deign
to help him climb toward her moral height.

As he stood on the piazza, after ringing the door-bell, he was in
greater trepidation than when he had made his first plea in court,
and was so intent in trying to frame his thoughts into appropriate
language that he did not note for the moment that no one answered.
Again he rang, but there was no response. There were lights in the
house, and he knocked upon the door quite loudly. A housemaid soon
after appeared, with a scared and anxious face.

"Is Miss Martell at home?" he asked, a sudden boding of evil chilling
his heart.

"Indade an' she is not. Would to God she was!"

"What do you mean?"

"Faix, an' I'm sure I'm glad ye's come, Misther Harcourt. The
coachman is down at the shore, and he'll tell ye all."

Harcourt dashed through the snow and shrubbery, over rocks and
down steeps that gave him one or two severe falls, that he might,
the nearest way, reach Mr. Martell's boat-house. Here he found the
coachman peering out upon the dark waters, and occasionally uttering
a hoarse, feeble shout, which could scarcely be heard above the
surf that beat with increasing heaviness upon the icy beach.

The man seemed nearly exhausted with cold and anxiety, and was
overjoyed at seeing Harcourt; but he told the young man a story
which filled him with deepest alarm.  It was to this effect:

Mr. and Miss Martell had been delayed in leaving a friend's house
on the opposite side of the river until it was too late to reach
the boat on which it was their intention to cross. They had been
prevailed upon by their hospitable host to send their sleigh up
to a later boat, while they remained for an early supper, and then
should cross in a boat rowed by an experienced oarsman, who was a
tenant on the gentleman's place.

"It was quite a bit after dark when I got back, but Mr.  Martell
and the young lady hadn't come over yet. I first thought they was
goin' to stay all night, and that I should go arter them in the
mornin'; but the woman as sews says how she was sittin' at one of
the upper winders, and how she sees, just afore night, a light push
out from t'other side and come straight across for a long while,
and then turn and go down stream. I'm afeard they've caught in the
ice."

"But what became of the light?" asked Harcourt, half desperate with
fear and anxiety.

"Well, the woman as sews says it went down and down as long as she
could see."

A faint scream from the house now arrested their attention, and
hastening up the bank they heard the servants crying from the upper
windows of the mansion, "There it comes! there it comes again!"

Harcourt rushed to the second story of the house. A door leading
into an apartment facing the river was open, and without a thought
he entered and threw open the blinds. Away to the south, where the
river enters the Highlands, he saw a faint light, evidently that
of the lantern carried in the boat. Familiar with the river, the
whole state of things flashed upon him. In the last of the ebb tide
their boat had become entangled in the ice, but had been carried
down no very great distance. Now that the tide had turned, it was
coming back, with the mass of ice in which it had become wedged.

And could that faint glimmer indicate the presence of the one who
never before had been so dear? Could Miss Martell, the child of
luxury, so beautiful and yet so frail and delicate, be out in the
darkness and cold of this winter night, perishing perhaps, with
the lights of this her elegant home full in view?

Then, for the first time, he recognized that the room he was in
must be Miss Martell's sleeping apartment. Though the light was
low and soft, it revealed an exquisite casket, in keeping with the
jewel it had once held, but might no more enshrine. On every side
were the evidences of a refined but Christian taste, and also
a certain dainty beauty that seemed a part of the maiden herself,
she having given to the room something of her own individuality.

It would be hard to describe Harcourt's sensation as a hasty glance
revealed the character of the place. He felt somewhat as a devout
Greek might, had he stumbled into the sacred grotto of his most
revered goddess.

But this thought was uppermost in his mind,--"Here is where she
should be; yonder--terrible thought--is where she is. What can I
do?"

Again he dashed back to the shore, calling the coachman to follow
him. When the man reached the water's edge, he found that Harcourt
had broken open the boat-house, and was endeavoring to get out the
boat.

"Ye'll gain nothing there, wid that big boat," said the coachman.
"The master has been away so long that it's all out o' order. The
water can get in it as soon as yerself.  The young lady's little
scollop--the one as is called Naughty Tillus--is sent away for the
winter."

"Stop your cursed croaking," cried Harcourt, excitedly, "and help
me out with this boat. If I can't save her, I can at least drown
with her."

"Divil a lift will I give ye. It will do the master and young lady
no good, and I'll not have your drownding on my conscience."

Harcourt soon found that he could not manage the large boat alone,
and the matches he struck to guide him revealed that the man had
spoken truly, and that the craft was in no condition for the service
he proposed.

"Great God!" he cried, "is there no way to save her?"

He sprang upon the boat-house, and there, away to the south, was
the dim light coming steadily up the stream.  The moon had not yet
risen; the sky was overcast with wildly flying clouds; the wind
was rising, and would drive and grind the ice more fiercely. It
was just the night for a tragedy, and he felt that if he saw that
light disappear, as a sign that the boat had been crushed and its
occupants swallowed up by the wintry tide, the saddest tragedy of
the world would have taken place.

He groaned and clenched his hands in his impotent anguish.

"O God!" he cried, "what can I do to save her."

He clasped his throbbing temples, and tried to think. It soon occurred
to him that Mrs. Marchmont's boat might be in better condition.
Hemstead was strong and brave, and would assuredly join him in the
effort to rescue them. Without a word he rushed up the bank, sprang
into his cutter, gave his spirited horse a cut from the whip, which
caused him at once to spring into a mad gallop, and so vanished
from the eyes of the bewilderd and terrified servants, who were
left alone to their increasing fears.

"Save her,--save her," muttered the coachman, as, stiff and numb
with cold, he followed Harcourt more slowly to the house. "It's
kind o' queer how he forgits about the old man."






CHAPTER XXV.

A TRUE KNIGHT.





As the dusk deepened into night upon this memorable evening,
Hemstead stood at the parlor window, and looked out so long and
intently that Lottie joined him at last, and asked, "What can you
see without, and in the darkness, so much more attractive than
anything within?"

"Do you see that faint light out there upon the river?"

"Yes."

"Well, I've been watching it for some time, and it troubles me.
I noticed this afternoon that there was ice coming down with the
tide. Is it possible that some one, in crossing with a small boat,
has been caught in the ice and carried downward?"

"Why should you think that? Nothing is more common than lights upon
the river at night."

"Yes, but not of late. Since the last severe cold I have noticed
that the river was almost deserted, and the papers state that it
is freezing north of us. But it is the peculiarity in the movement
of the light that perplexes me. When I saw it first, it appeared as
if coming across the river. Suddenly, when quite over toward this
side, it seemed to stop a moment, then turn directly down the
stream."

"Uncle," cried Lottie, "you know all about the river.  How do you
account for what Mr. Hemstead has seen?" and she explained.

"Lights are very deceptive at night, especially upon the water,"
said Mr. Dimmerly, sententiously. "It's probably a hardy water-rat
of a boatman dropping down with the tide to a point opposite to
where he wishes to land."

"Yes, that is it, Mr. Hemstead, so dismiss your fears.  Your brow
is as clouded as that murky sky there."

"That comparison is quite oriental in its extravagance," he said,
his anxious face relaxing into a sudden smile.  "But then you are
a bit tropical yourself."

"Well, you can't complain if I remind you of the tropics this
dreary winter night; so I'll bear out your fanciful conceit. Your
face, a moment since, was like a burst of sunshine."

"Your figure now is incorrect as well as extravagant; for, whatever
light my face has, it is but the reflection of your kindness."

"I hope you do not mean to suggest that you have any tendency
towards 'mooning'?"

"'Mooning' is the indulgence of sickly sentiment, is it not,--a
diluted moonlight kind of feeling?"

"Very well defined. Does experience give you such accuracy?" said
Lottie, laughingly.

"I can honestly say no; and most surely not in your case."

"I'm glad to hear it," said Lottie. "I should be sorry to think that
cold, diluted moonlight was the type of any of my friends' regard."

"You may rest assured," he replied impulsively, "there is nothing
'cold or diluted' in my regard for you--"

"There is the supper-bell," interrupted Lottie, hastily.

"What are you looking at?" asked De Forrest, uneasily noting the
fact of their standing together within the shadowy curtains. He
had just descended from the toilet which, with him, was a necessity
before each meal.

"Mr. Hemstead has seen a light upon the river, and bodes from
it some vague danger to some vague, indefinite people. Come, Mr.
Hemstead, come away, or before we know it you will be off on the
quixotic attempt to rescue what uncle calls a 'hardy water-rat,'
that all the water of the river could not drown."

"O, I see," sneered De Forrest; "Mr. Hemstead wishes to get
cheaply, standing here within and in good company, the credit of
being willing to attempt a perilous rescue."

"You are jumping at conclusions very rapidly, Julian, and not very
charitable ones either," said Lottie, reproachfully.

"Come, Mr. De Forrest," said Hemstead, quietly, "we will test
this question of cheapness. I will go with you to investigate that
light."

"Nonsense!" replied the exquisite. "As Miss Marsden suggested, Don
Quixote may be your model knight, but he is not mine."

"Now I didn't suggest any such thing," said Lottie, decidedly vexed.

"Come, young people, tea is waiting," called Mrs. Marchmont.

"Well, I did," said De Forrest to Lottie, aside; "and what's more,
I believe it's true," and he placed her reluctant hand upon his
arm, and drew her to the supper-room.

But Hemstead lingered a moment, to watch the light, with increasing
uneasiness. In his silent abstraction at the table it was evident
to Lottie that his mind was dwelling upon the problem of the
mysterious glimmer far out upon the river.  Before the meal was
over, he abruptly excused himself, but soon returned as if relieved,
and said, "It is no more to be seen."

"I told you how it was," said Mr. Dimmerly. "The man floated down
as far as he wished, and now has pulled ashore."

The explanation fully satisfied the rest, and sounded plausible to
Hemstead; and the evening promised to pass quietly and uneventfully
away. Mrs. Marchmont's parlor was a picture of cosey elegance.
Bel, and Addie with her mother and uncle, made a game of whist at
one table; while Hemstead in subdued tones read the latest magazine at
another. De Forrest was half-dozing in his chair, for the article
was rather beyond him; and while Lottie's fair face was very
thoughtful, it might be questioned whether the thought was suggested
by the reader or by what he read.  But the article was finished,
and for the relief of change Hemstead paced the room a few moments,
and then half-aimlessly went to the window and looked out toward
the river. His abrupt exclamation startled them all.

"There is the light again!"

A moment later he stood, bare-headed, upon the piazza, straining
his eyes out into the darkness.

"I feel impressed that there is something wrong,--that some one is
in danger," he said to Lottie, who had followed him.

"You will take cold standing here without your hat," she said.

"So will you. Where is your hat, that you should talk prudence to
me?"

But the others were more thoughtful of themselves, and were well
protected as they now also came out upon the piazza.

"Well, it is a little queer," said Mr. Dimmerly.

"I suppose one ought to go and see what it means," said Bel,
hesitatingly. "But then there are those better able to go than any
one from here."

"Hush!" said Hemstead.

Far and faint there seemed to come a cry for help across the
darkness.

"That is enough," he cried; "some one is in distress and danger.
Come, Mr. De Forrest. The case has lost all its quixotic elements,
and you may now emulate the Chevalier Bayard himself."

"O, please don't go, gentlemen!" cried Lottie. "See, the night is
very dark; the wind is rising; the water must be very rough. You
may just throw away your own lives in the vain attempt to save
utter strangers."

"Miss Marsden is right," said De Forrest, as if greatly relieved.
"The attempt is perfectly foolhardy, and I am not a fool. If some
one is in a boat that is fast in the ice, he has only a few more
miles to drift before coming opposite a large town, where there
are many better able to help than we are."

"Hush!" cried Hemstead; "do you hear that?"

Faint and far away, as a response to De Forrest's words, came again
more clearly the cry for help.

"That is enough," again said Hemstead, excitedly; and he started
for his hat.

Lottie laid her hand upon his arm, and said with seeming earnestness,
"Surely, Mr. Hemstead, you will not be guilty of the folly of going
alone upon such a desperate attempt as this?"

"I surely will; and you surprise me greatly that you seek to detain
me," he said, almost sternly.

"But you alone can do nothing."

"As I am a man I will try. Where can I get the key of the boat-house?"

"If the young gentleman will go, I will go with him," said a voice
from the darkness beyond the piazza, which they recognized as that
of Mrs. Marchmont's coachman.  "I've been to sea in my day, and am
not afraid of a little water, salt or fresh."

"Good for you, my fine fellow. I'll be with you at once," cried
Hemstead.

"I've got the key of the boat-house, a lantern, and an axe to cut
the ice, so you have only to put on your coat and hat."

"There," said Hemstead to Lottie; "a way is provided already. How
could you wish to keep me back?" and without waiting for an answer
he hastily seized his hat and coat from the hall rack.

But before he could spring down the piazza, steps she again stopped
him a moment, as she said, in a low, husky tone: "I did not wish
to detain, but to test you. I wish you to go. I am proud of you,
though my heart trembles at your peril. But you shall not go till
you are protected and equipped. See, your hands are bare; they will
become numb, and so useless. Where are your gloves? The wind will
carry your hat away. Here, you shall be my knight upon this occasion,
and, if you will, may wear my colors;" and she snatched the ribbon
from her hair, and tied his hat firmly down.

In a low, thrilling tone, meant only for her, he said: "Now you
are the Lottie of my ideal; now you are yourself again, and your
words have given me tenfold my former courage and strength. Good-by;"
and ere she was aware, he had seized her hand and pressed a kiss
upon it, in true old knightly style.

"God bring you back safely," she said, with a quick sob.

Heaven heard the prayer. He did not, for he was off with a bound;
and the darkness swallowed him up as he followed the stout-hearted
ex-sailor.

Lottie stood where he left her, unconscious that the wintry wind
was blowing her unconfined hair wildly about.

"Miss Lottie," said De Forrest, approaching her humbly.

She raised her hand deprecatingly.

"Really, Miss Lottie," he persisted, "I would have gone if you had
wished me to."

"Hark!" she said, in a low tone. "Can you heal them?"

Lynx-eyed Bel, standing unnoticed in the shadow, had witnessed and
comprehended the scene more fully than the Others, and speedily
brought Lottie to her senses by whispering in her ear: "Come, don't
make a goose of yourself.  If Mr. Hemstead is your 'knight,' he
has not gone to fight a dragon, but to row a boat, and rescue a
fisherman in all probability. Your hair is down and blowing about
your eyes, and you look like a guy generally."

Even Lottie, in her highly-wrought state, was not proof against
such bald prose as this; and she turned and hastened to her room.

Bel followed, proposing now, at last, to open Lottie's eyes to her
folly. Her first words of wisdom were, as Lottie, with wet eyes,
stood binding up her hair, "What a fool you are beginning to make
of yourself over this Western student!"

"Hush!" said Lottie, imperiously.

"There it is again. You haven't been yourself since he came. If
your mother knew what was going on--"

"Bel," said Lottie, in a tone that quite startled that nervous
young lady, "do you value my friendship at all?"

"Certainly; and that is why I wish to prevent you from drifting
into trouble: and it's not right for you to get him into--"

Lottie's warning gesture was so emphatic that Bel paused.

"Has it ever occurred to you," Lottie continued, in a tone that Bel
had never heard her use before, "that I am not a child, and that
you are not my natural guardian? Not another word, please, about
Mr. Hemstead, or we are strangers;" and she quietly finished her
toilet and left the room.

She had hardly reached the lower hall before there was a furious
ring at the door. Before it could be Opened Mr.  Harcourt burst
in, and called, "Where is Mr. Hemstead?"

At the first sound of his voice Addie rushed out and clung to his
arm, crying hysterically, "What is the matter?"

He drew back, with an impatience akin to disgust, and repeated his
question: "Where is Mr. Hemstead? Why don't some one speak?"

"Mr. Harcourt," said Mrs. Marchmont, in offended dignity, "I think
you might, at least, have answered Addie's question and told us
what the trouble is."

"Trouble enough, God knows. Mr. and Miss Martell have been caught
in the ice, out in an open boat, for hours.  Do you see that light
there? Good heavens! there is another light shooting out toward
it--"

"Yes," cried Lottie, in a sudden ecstasy of delight; "there goes
my brave, true knight to the rescue, and he will save them, too;
see how he gains upon them. That is Mr. Hemstead's voice. I know
it well. He is shouting encouragement to them. Hear the feeble
answering cry."

"That's a woman's voice," Harcourt cried, after listening a moment
as if his life depended on what he heard.  "Thank God, she has not
perished with cold"; and he dashed away toward the river bank.

Addie and her mother looked at each other. They too, like the
coachman, had been struck with Mr. Harcourt's choice of pronouns.

But the prudent lady did not forget herself or her duty a moment.
She made them all come in from the bleak piazza, and had the light
turned down in the parlor, so that they could see through the window
just as well,--a more comfortable point of observation.

But De Forrest quite ostentatiously muffled himself up to his eyes,
that he might go down and "help."

Approaching timidly, he said to Lottie as she stood at the window,
"Can you not take another knight into your service this evening?"

"O, yes, Julian," she replied good-naturedly; "a regiment in so good
a cause as this. Hasten to the shore.  You may be of some possible
help;" and, with a gesture of dismission, she turned again to her
watch.

De Forrest slowly departed, feeling that this was a very different
farewell from that bestowed on Hemstead, of which he had caught an
aggravating glimpse.

While the others were eagerly talking and surmising, and the servants
bustling about, preparing for those who would soon be brought in,
chilled and wet with spray, Lottie stood at her post motionless,
oblivious of all around, and as intent upon Hemstead's light as if
she were to be rescued instead of Miss Martell.






CHAPTER XXVI.

ON A CRUMBLING ICE-FLOE.





The plan suggested by their host, of sending their sleigh home by
the ferry, while they crossed in a boat, just suited Miss Martell,
and she proposed having a good vigorous pull at the oars herself.
She had always been fond of out-of-door sports, a taste which her
father had judiciously encouraged; and thus had saved her, no doubt,
from the life of an invalid, for she had inherited the delicacy
of a feeble mother, who years before, in spite of all that wealth
could do to prevent it, had passed away.

Just at this time Miss Martell was waging that pathetic war with
her own heart which so many women must fight out in silence; and
she welcomed eagerly any distraction of thought,--anything that
would so weary the body that the mind could rest. She dreaded the
long, monotonous ride home, and so warmly seconded the new plan
that her father yielded, though somewhat against his judgment.

Through the little delays of a hospitality more cordial than kind,
they were kept until the early December twilight was deepening into
dusk. But the oarsman lighted his lantern, and was confident that
he could put them across most speedily. The boat was stanch and
well built, and they started with scarcely a misgiving, Miss Martell
taking an oar with much zest. Their friends waved them off with
numberless good wishes, and then from their windows watched till
the boat seemed quite across, before drawing the curtains and
concluding that all was well.

At first they did not meet much ice, and everything promised a
safe and speedy passage; but, when they were well past the middle
of the river, two dark masses were seen just before them. There
appeared to be a wide opening between them, through which they
could see the water ripple.

"I think we can shoot through," said the oarsman, standing up a
moment; "perhaps it will be the safest course, for we don't know
what's above."

"Very well," said Mr. Martell, "I will steer you as well as I can.
Pull strongly till we are again in clear water."

Miss Martell bent her supple form to the oar, and her strokes counted
as well as those of the strong, practised man; and the boat sped,
all too quickly, into what afterwards seemed the very jaws of
destruction.

The opening narrowed instead of widening. The ice above, for some
reason, appeared to gain on that below.

In growing alarm, Mr. Martell saw that they were becoming shut in,
and pointed out the fact to the oarsman.

"Shall we turn around?" he asked, excitedly.

The man stood up again, and instantly decided.

"No, we have not time; the tide is running very swiftly.  The ice
would close on us before we could get around.  Our best chance is
to push through. I can see water beyond." They bent to their oars
again with the energy which danger inspires.

But there was not time. The opening closed too rapidly.  Suddenly
the bow struck the upper cake, and, being well out of the water,
ran up on the ice, causing the boat to take in water at the stern.
For a second it seemed that they would be overturned and drowned
at once.

But just at this moment the upper cake struck the lower ice, and
the boat, being well up on the first cake, was not crushed between
the two masses, as would have been the case had the ice closed
against its sides while they were deep in the water. For a moment
they were saved, while the upper and lower floes crunched and ground
together under the keel, lifting the light craft still further
above the tide and throwing it over on one side. Without a second's
pause, the now consolidated field of ice swept downward, carrying
with it the wedged and stranded skiff.

The lantern gleamed on the pale faces of those who realized that
they had just passed through a moment of supreme peril, and perhaps
had before them as great if not equally imminent dangers.

The oarsman hastily examined the boat, and found that it had been
injured, though to what extent he could not tell.  Water was oozing
in slowly from some point near the keel, but they were too high out
of the water to know whether more dangerous leaks had been made.
They tried to break their way out, but found that the two cakes
had become so joined together as to form a solid mass, upon which
they could make no impression.

They called aloud for help, and Miss Martell's plaintive cry was
blended again and again with the hoarse, strong shoutings of the
men. But the river was wide; the tide swept them out toward its
centre, and then nearer the less peopled eastern shore. The evening
was cold and bleak; few were out, and these so intent upon reaching
warm firesides that they never thought of scanning the dark waste
of the river; and so, to all the cries for aid there was no response,
save the gurgling water, that sounded so cold as to chill their
hearts, and the crunching of the ice as the rushing tide carried
them downward, and away from the gleaming lights of their own loved
home,--downward and past the lights from Mrs. Marchmont's mansion,
where, even in her peril, poor Alice Martell could picture Harcourt
at Addie's side, and she forgotten. As the imagined scene rose
vividly before her, the wild thought passed through her mind: "Since
it must be so, perhaps I can find more rest beneath these waters
than in my home yonder. It may be for the best, after all, and God
designs mercy in what at first seemed so terrible."

As people saw Miss Marten's quiet and rather distant bearing
in society, as many admired her chiselled and faultlessly refined
features, they little imagined that, as within snowy mountains are
volcanic fires, so within her breast was kindling as passionate a
love as ever illumined a woman's life with happiness, or consumed
it with a smouldering flame.

But death is stern and uncompromising, and snatches away all
disguises,--even those which hide us from ourselves.  In bitterness
of heart the poor girl learned, while darker than the night the
shadow of death hovered over her, how intense was her love for
one who she believed loved another. If but a hand's breadth away,
beneath the rushing tide, there was a remedy for the pain at her
heart, why need she fear?

"My child," said a tremulous voice.

Then, with a natural and remorseful rush of love for one who had
been as tender towards her as a mother since that mother commended
her to his care, she put her arms around him and whispered, "I am
not afraid, father. Mother and heaven may be nearer than we think."

"Thank God, my child,--thank God you are not afraid.  I was trembling
for you,--not myself. You are young, and I trusted that there was
a happy life before you. But the home where mother is promises me
far more than the one yonder, whose lights are growing so faint."

"I am not afraid, dear father. I am content, if it's God's will,
to go to that better home and be with you and mother."

"God bless you, my child; and blessed be the God of mercy who has
given you so true a faith. It would be terrible to me beyond words
if now you were full of hopeless dread."

But the poor oarsman had no such faith,--only the memory of his
dependent wife and children, and his material life, which never
before had seemed so sweet and precious. He kept shouting for aid
until exhausted, and then despairingly sat down to await the result.

Mr. Martell, in the true Christian spirit, sought to impart to
his humble companion in peril some of his own confidence in God's
mercy and goodness; but in vain. An intelligent, sustaining faith
cannot be snatched like a life-preserver in the moment of danger;
and the man appeared scarcely to heed what was said.

Downward and past the twinkling lights of many comfortable homes
the remorseless tide still swept them, until the huge outlines of
the two mountains at the portal of the Highlands loomed out of the
darkness.

"If we get down among the mountains, we might as well give up,"
said the oarsman, sullenly. "We might as well be cast away at
sea as down in that wild gorge; though for that matter it seems,
to-night, as if one's neighbors wouldn't step out of doors to keep
a body from drowning. Why no one has heard us is more than I can
understand, unless it is accordin' to the old sayin', 'None's so
deaf as them as won't hear.'"

But there was nothing strange in the fact that they had been unnoted.
The north wind blew their voices down the river. There was a noisy
surf upon the shore, and those who chanced to see the light supposed
it to come from some craft hastening to its winter quarters near
the city. So fate seemed against them, and they drifted down and
down until the black shadow of "Storm King" swallowed them up.

But now they became conscious that their motion was growing less
steady and rapid. A little later, and the floe apparently paused
in its downward progress, and there was only some slight movement
caused by the increasing gale.

Then came what seemed interminable hours of weary waiting under
the sombre shadow of "Cro' Nest" mountain.  The strange and almost
irresistible drowsiness that severe cold induces began to creep
over Miss Martell, but her father pleaded with her to fight against
it; and, more for his sake than her own, she tried. They took turns
in endeavoring to break the ice around them with the boat-hook. The
exercise kept their blood in circulation, but was of little avail
in other respects. The ice was too heavy and solid for their feeble
strokes.

At last the tide turned, and the dreary, monotonous waiting in
their hopeless position was exchanged for an upward movement that
would soon bring them above the mountains again, where, from the
thickly peopled shores, there would be a better chance of being
seen and rescued.

There was no certainty that they would be missed, and therefore
sought for, as the coachman, not finding them on his return, might
conclude that they had been prevailed upon to remain all night with
the friend they were visiting.

But any exchange from the black, rayless shadows that surrounded
them would be a relief; and it was with a faint feeling of
hopefulness--that they recognized their movement northward, which
slowly increased in speed as the tide gained mastery of the slight
natural current of the river.

The strengthening northern gale had thrown up quite a "sea," and
the experienced oarsman soon saw that the ice-field by which they
were surrounded was breaking up under the influence of the waves.
This might at last bring relief, or increase their danger. If the
ice should all break up around them and leave their boat tight and
sound, they could tow ashore. If the boat had been or should become
so injured as to leak badly, it might fill with water before they
could reach land. Thus, in any case, the trying nature of their
peculiar position was aggravated by a terrible uncertainty and
suspense.

As they emerged from the Highlands into the broad waters of Newburgh
Bay, their worst fears seemed about to be realized. Here, for many
miles, the north wind had an unrestrained sweep, and the waves grew
larger and more violent. Under their increasing force the ice-floe
crumbled around them rapidly, until at last little was left save
the mass of double thickness caused by the union of the two large
cakes between which the boat had been caught. This, at last, began
to give under the weight of the boat, and let it more deeply into
the water. Then, to their dismay, they saw that the seams of the
boat had been so wrenched apart that the water came in rapidly.

They tried to keep it down by baling. The frosty gale tossed Mr.
Martell's white hair, while with his hat he worked, in pathetic
earnestness, for the sake of his daughter; but in spite of all
that he and the oarsman could do, the water gained on them, wetting
their feet and creeping up their legs with the icy chili of death.

Every moment or two the man would pause in his work and send forth
a cry of such terrible power and earnestness that it would seem
some one must hear.

Again Alice Martell saw the distant lights of her own home, but she
turned from them to those that gleamed from the nearer residence
of Mrs. Marchmont. Was he there, safe and happy, looking love into
the eyes of Addie Marchmont, while every moment she sank lower into
the cold river?  The thought sent a deeper chill to her heart than
the icy tide from which she could no longer keep her feet.

"God and man is agin us," said the oarsman, savagely.  "What is
the use of trying any longer! The sooner it's over the better"; and
he was about to give up in despair. Alice, with equal hopelessness
of any earthly aid, was about to turn her eyes from the faint rays
which, barbed with the thoughts suggested above, pierced her heart
like arrows, when the throwing open of the hall-door by Hemstead
let out such a broad streaming radiance as attracted her notice.
By calling the attention of the others to it, she inspired in them
a faint hope.

But when, soon after, the door was closed, and the lights had
their usual appearance, the flicker of hope sank down into a deeper
darkness.

Alice turned to her father, and in close embrace and with a oneness
of spirit and hope that needed not outward expression, they silently
lifted their thoughts from the dark earth to the bright heaven
whose portals they soon expected to enter.

Just then a voice from earth recalled them to earthly hope and the
prospect of human help. It was Hemstead's shout of encouragement
from the shore. Then they saw the glimmer of a lantern moving
hither and thither; a moment later it became stationary, then shot
out towards them.

With cries of joy they recognized that they had been seen, and that
an attempt to rescue them was being made.

In the apathy of their despair the water had gained dangerously;
but with the energy of hope, that is ever greater than that of fear
or despair, they set to work anew. Again the wintry winds tossed
Mr. Martell's white hair, as for want of something better he baled
with his hat, and Alice's little numb hands were lifted every moment
as if in pathetic appeal, as she dipped them in the ice-cold water
at her feet, and threw out a tiny cupful, which the gale carried
away in spray.

"Come quick. We can't keep afloat much longer," cried the oarsman.

"Ay, ay," shouted the ex-sailor in a voice as hoarse as the winds
in the cordage of his old ship.

"Courage!" cried Hemstead; and his tones, in contrast, rang out
like a bugle, inspiring hope in the chilled hearts of those who,
a little before, had despaired, and also sending an almost equal
thrill of delight to the heart of Lottie Marsden, as, with the
half-frenzied Harcourt, she stood in Mrs.  Marchmont's open door.

The sailor-coachman was a good oarsman, and Hemstead pulled fairly.
Both were very strong, and they drove the boat through the short,
chopping waves, rather than over them, caring not how much water
was shipped.

A little later came the shout, "Quick, quick! The ice is giving
under us, and the boat sinking."

"Oh! come!--save my father!" cried Alice Martell, in a tone that
might have moved the very ice around her to pity.

"My child, my child!" came the agonized voice of the father. "Never
think of me, if you can save her."

Hemstead's nature was anthracite, and now glowed at white heat
in his grand excitement. He was no longer a man, but a giant, and
would have ruined everything, snapped his oars, dragged the oar-pins
from their sockets, thus rendering his massive strength utterly
useless, had not the cool, wary ex-sailor taken command of the little
craft, and insisted on seamanship. Under his skilful direction the
student was like a powerful engine, with a steady, measured stroke,
and the boat fairly flew, until their oars struck floating ice, and
then they had to slacken up, for to strike a mass of ice at their
speed would be to sink at once.

"Steady now," cried the ex-sailor. "You pull; I will stand and
steer."

Their boat was roughly grazed several times, but glided through
without serious injury.

"Now or never!" cried the oarsman; "we're sinking."

Alice hid her face on her father's breast. Life had grown strangely
sweet during the brief time since, at Hemstead's voice, hope had
revived; and it seemed a bitter thing to perish almost within the
grasp of rescuing hands.

"Oh! come!" groaned the father. "Great God! this is hard."

With a despairing cry she heard the water rush and gurgle around
her, and closed her eyes, not expecting to open them again in this
world. But strong hands grasped and lifted her drenched, helpless
form tenderly into the boat.

With mingled hope and fear she looked up, and by the lantern's
light recognized Frank Hemstead.

"My father," she gasped.

"Safe, my darling, thank God," said Mr. Martell, taking her into
his arms; "and they have pulled our stout oarsman in, too. So we
are all safe."

"Well, I hope so," said the ex-sailor, with a little depressive
dubiousness. "We shipped a sight o' water comin' out.  There's
a deal of ice runnin', and so chopped up one can skerce see it.
I must be skipper and all, mind, if we are to come safe out. Here,
Mr. Hemstead, you bale; and you, too, messmate, if yer hain't
shipped too much water yerself.  I'll sit well up towards the bow,
where I can see and pull around the ice. Besides, with this cargo,
we've got to cross the waves kind o' easy and keerful, or they'll
swamp us."

Thus in this instance the ex-sailor appeared a special providence,
and gradually took them out of the ice-strewn tide in the centre of
the river to smoother, clearer water nearer the shore. Soon after,
drenched and half-frozen, they reached Mrs. Marchmont's boat-house.

Miss Martell's powers of endurance were nearly exhausted; and when
the lantern, held aloft, revealed  Harcourt's pale face,--when she
knew that it was his arms that received her in her helplessness,
and she heard him murmur, "I now believe there's a merciful God, and
thank Him,"--in the strong reaction of feeling she became unconscious.






CHAPTER XXVII.

THE MEETING AND GREETING.





Mr. Martell's garments were frozen upon him, and he was so stiff
and numb with cold that with difficulty he made his way up the
bank with the support of De Forre