
before her. He hesitated for a few minutes and then sent an order to
the stable.

At midnight he had not returned, and Sadie sat in the office at the
hotel, making futile efforts to fix her attention on a newspaper. The
guests had gone to bed and the building was very quiet, but she had
kept the ostler up. He might be needed and she could trust him not to
talk.

At length she heard the sound she listened for. A beat of hoofs and
rattle of wheels came down the street. It was their team, she knew
their trot, but she wondered anxiously whether Bob was driving. When
the rig stopped she went to the door, where the ostler stood with a
lantern, and caught her breath as Wilkinson got down. There was nobody
else on the seat of the light wagon, and Charnock had set off with a
different rig.

"Where's Bob?" she asked in a strained voice.

"We put him inside," said Wilkinson. "He wasn't quite able to sit up.
I'd have kept him all night only that I reckoned you might be scared."

Sadie, putting her foot on the wheel when the ostler held up the
light, saw Charnock lying on a bundle of sacks. He was in a drunken
stupor.

"Help Bill bring him, in," she said with stony calm.

Wilkinson and the other lifted the unconscious man, and staggering
along a passage, awkwardly climbed the stairs. They put him on his bed
and were going out when Sadie stopped them.

"Thank you, Bill; hold the team for a few minutes," she said and
turned to Wilkinson. "I want you to wait in the office."

Then she shut the door, and after unfastening Charnock's collar and
vest stood looking at him for a minute or two. He had not wakened, but
she had seen him like this before and was not alarmed. His face was
flushed and the veins on his forehead were prominent; his clothes were
crumpled and sprinkled with bits of hay. Sadie studied him with a
feeling of helplessness that changed to contemptuous pity. Her
romantic dreams and ambitions had vanished and left her this----

As she turned away her mood changed again. After all, he was her
husband and she had schemed to marry him. She was honest with herself
about this and admitted that Bob had not really loved her much. But he
needed her and she must not fail him. There was some comfort in
remembering that he had sought no other woman; her rivals were cards
and liquor, and she did not mean that they should win. Obeying a
sudden impulse, she turned back and kissed his hot face, and then,
noting the smell of whisky, flushed and went out with a firm step.

When she entered the office, however, her face was hard and white. She
did not sit down, but leaned against a desk opposite Wilkinson.

"Why did you ask Bob out to the range?"

Wilkinson did not like her look. It hinted that she was in a dangerous
mood, but he answered good-humoredly: "I thought he wanted a change.
You hold him too tight, Mrs. Charnock. Bob won't stand for being kept
busy indoors all day; he won't make a clerk."

"He won't," said Sadie. "I'm beginning to see it now. But you don't
care a straw for Bob. You wanted a pick on me because I made you cut
out your game that night."

"No," said Wilkinson, with a gesture of protest. "I certainly thought
you were too smart, although it was not my business. Anyhow, if you
let him have a quiet game with his friends at home--"

"Pshaw! I know you, Jake Wilkinson, better than Bob does. You meant to
make him drunk this evening and empty his wallet, and I guess you
didn't find it hard."

Wilkinson's face got red, but he saw he would gain nothing by denial.
Besides, there was a matter he was anxious about.

"It wasn't hard to empty his wallet, because he had only a few small
bills."

"Yes; I fixed that. How much did you win from him when he was drunk?"

"He got drunk afterwards," Wilkinson objected. "Then I didn't win it
all; there were three or four others."

Sadie smiled rather grimly. "How much?"

She got a jar when Wilkinson told her, but she fixed him with steady
eyes.

"You knew what he had in his wallet, but let him go on? You thought
Keller's would stand for the debt?"

"Yes," said Wilkinson, with some alarm; "we certainly thought so."

"Very well. Keller's makes good. Take the pen and right out a bill
like this--R. Charnock, debtor in losses on a card game."

"You know it's never done."

"It's going to be done now, or you won't get your cheque. I know what
I'm up against in you and your gang."

Wilkinson hesitated, but he needed the money and made out the bill.
After examining it, Sadie wrote a cheque.

"I've paid you once, for Keller's sake, but you had better stop the
card games after this. Bob's not my partner in the business, and no
more of my dollars will go on gambling."

"Ah!" said Wilkinson sharply, "you're smarter than I thought!"

Sadie gave him a searching glance and he noted an ominous tenseness in
her pose and her drawn-back lips. He said afterwards that she looked
like a wild cat.

"Anyhow, I think I have you fixed. There's nothing doing in making Bob
drunk again, but you had better understand what's going to happen if
you try. The next time you drive over to the settlement after my
husband I'll whip you in the street with a riding quirt."

Wilkinson put the cheque in his pocket and picked up his hat.

"On the whole, I guess I'd better not risk it," he said and went out.

Sadie let him go, and then went limply upstairs. She felt worn out and
her brain was dull. She could not think, and a problem that demanded
solving must wait until the morning. After looking into the room where
Charnock lay and seeing that he was sleeping heavily, she went to bed.

Next morning she shut herself in the office at the store and gave the
clerks strict orders that she was not to be disturbed. Opening a
drawer, she took out a rough balance sheet, which showed that the
business was profitable and expanding fast. Things were going very
well, in spite of Bob's extravagance, and she thought she had
prevented his wasting any more money. In three or four years she could
sell the hotel and store for a large sum and, as she thought of it,
give herself a chance.

She was young, clever, and attractive, and had recently tried to
cultivate her mind. It was laborious work and she had not much time,
but the clergyman of the little Episcopal church gave her some
guidance and she made progress. For one thing, she was beginning to
talk like Bob and thought he noticed this, although she had not told
him about her studies. She meant to be ready to take her part in a
wider and brighter life when she left the settlement. Knowing little
about large towns, she exaggerated the pleasures they could offer.
Montreal, for example, was a city of delight. She had been there twice
and had seen the Ice Palace glitter against the frosty sky, the
covered skating rinks, the jingling sleighs, and the toboggans rushing
down the long, white slides. Then she remembered afternoon drives in
summer on the wooded slopes of the Mountain, and evenings spent among
the garish splendors of Dominion Park, where myriads of lights threw
their colored reflections upon the river. Since then, however, her
taste had got refined, and she now admitted that if she lived at
Montreal it might be better to cut out Dominion Park.

But she pulled herself up. It looked as if these delights were not for
her. She could enjoy them, if she wanted, in a few years' time, but
the risk was great. Bob might go to pieces while she earned the money
that would open the gate of fairyland. Although she had checked the
pace a little, he was going the wrong way fast. Sadie knitted her dark
brows as she nerved herself to make a momentous choice.

On the one hand there was everything she longed for; on the other much
that she disliked--monotonous work, the loneliness of the frozen
prairie in the bitter winter, the society, at very long intervals, of
farmers who talked about nothing but their crops, and the unslackening
strain of activity in the hot summer. Sadie thought of it with
shrinking; she would soon get old and faded, and Bob, for whose sake
she had done so, might turn from her. Yet there was danger for him if
they stayed at the settlement. He had too many friends and whisky was
always about. She must save him from the constant temptation and must
do so now.

For all that, she struggled. There were specious arguments for taking
the other course. Bob had failed as a farmer and would certainly fail
again if left to himself; but farming was the only occupation on the
lonely prairie. Loneliness was essential, because he must be kept away
from the settlements. But she saw the weak point in this reasoning,
because Bob need not be left to himself. She would, so to speak, stand
over him and see he did his work. Well, it looked as if she must let
her ambitions go, and she got up, straightening her body with a little
resolute jerk.

"Tell the boss I want him," she said to the clerk.

Charnock came in, looking haggard and somewhat ashamed, and Sadie knew
she had made the right choice when he sat down where the light touched
his face. For a moment he blinked and frowned.

"I wish you'd pull down that blind," he said. "The sun's in my eyes,
and I can't get round the desk."

Sadie did so, and then silently gave him Wilkinson's bill. He gazed at
the paper with surprise, and colored.

"I'd no idea I lost so much. Why did you pay him?"

"Because you can't," said Sadie. "He thought you had a share in the
business when he risked his dollars."

"I suppose that means you told him I wasn't your partner?"

"It does."

"I see," said Charnock, with some dryness. "You thought he'd leave me
alone if he knew I wasn't worth powder and shot? Well, I believe it's
very possible." Then he paused and smiled. "I can imagine his
astonishment when you asked for a bill, and must admit that you're a
sport. All the same, it's humiliating to have my friends told you
don't trust me with money."

"The trouble is I can't trust you. Now you listen, Bob. This tanking
and gambling has got to be stopped."

"I'm afraid I've given you some bother," Charnock answered penitently.
"For all that, I'm not so bad as I was. In fact, I really think I'm
steadying down by degrees, and since you have paid my debts I don't
mind promising--"

"By degrees won't do; you have got to stop right off. Besides, you
know how much your promises are worth."

Charnock colored. "That's rather cruel, Sadie, but I suppose it's
deserved."

"I don't mean what you think; not your promise to Miss Dalton," Sadie
answered with some embarrassment. "You told me you wouldn't drive over
to Wilkinson's again, and the first time I wasn't about you went. Very
well. Since I can't trust you round the settlement, we're going to
quit. I've decided to sell out the business as soon as I can get the
price I want."

"Sell the store and hotel!" Charnock exclaimed. "I suppose you know
you'd get three or four times as much if you held on for a few years."

"That's so. But what's going to happen to you while I wait?"

Charnock turned his head for a moment, and then looked up with a
contrite air.

"By George, Sadie, you are fine! But I can't allow this sacrifice."

"You won't be asked," Sadie rejoined with forced quietness. She was
moved by Charnock's exclamation, but durst not trust him or herself.
There was a risk of his persuading her to abandon the plan if he knew
how deeply she was stirred.

"Well," he said, "what do you propose to do?"

"Take a farm far enough from town to make it hard for you to drive in
and out. Donaldson's place would suit; he quits in the fall, you know,
and we hold his mortgage."

Charnock got up and walked about the floor. Then he stopped opposite
his wife.

"You mean well, Sadie, and you're very generous," he said with some
emotion. "Still you ought to see the plan won't work. I had a good
farm and made a horrible mess of things."

"You won't do that now. I'll be there," Sadie rejoined.

Charnock did not answer, but gave her a curious look, and she pondered
for a moment or two. He was obviously moved, but one could not tell
how far his emotions went, and she knew he did not want to listen. She
understood her husband and knew he sometimes deceived himself.

"No!" He resumed; "it's too big a sacrifice! You like people about you
and would see nobody but me and the hired man, while I admit I'm
enough to jar a woman's nerves. Then think of the work; the manual
work. You couldn't live as the bachelors live among dust and dirt, and
it's a big undertaking to keep a homestead clean when you can't get
proper help. Besides, there's the baking, cooking, and washing, while
you have done nothing but superintend. I'd hate to see you worn and
tired, and you know you're not so patient then. I get slack if things
go wrong, and if I slouched about, brooding, when I ought to be at
work, it would make you worse."

Sadie smiled. "That's very nice, Bob; but how much are you thinking
about me and how much about yourself?"

"To tell the truth, I don't know," Charnock replied with naïve
honesty. "Anyhow, I am thinking about you."

"That is what I like, but there's no use in talking. Since I can make
this business go I can run a farm, and see no other way. My plan's
made and I'm going to put it over."

Charnock was silent for some moments and then turned to her with a
look in his face she had not seen.

"I don't want to farm, but if you can stand it for my sake, I must
try. You will need some patience, Sadie--I may break out at times if
the strain gets too hard. One can't help running away when one is
something of a cur. But I'll come back, ashamed and sorry, and pitch
in again. Since you mean to stand by me, perhaps I'll win out in the
end."

Bending down suddenly, he kissed her and then went to the door. She
heard it shut, and sat still, but her eyes filled with tears. Bob had
not promised much, but she thought he meant to keep his word now, and
doubts that had troubled her melted away. She did not grudge the
sacrifice she had made, for a ray of hope had begun to shine. It was,
however, characteristic that after musing for a minute or two she took
out some notepaper and began to write. Since the business must be
sold, there was nothing to be gained by delay, and she gave a Winnipeg
agent clear instructions. Then she went out and hid her annoyance when
she saw Charnock sitting languidly on the hotel veranda.

"Has Wilkinson sent back our rig?" she asked.

"He has, but the team has done enough. Where are you going?"

"To look at Donaldson's farm. I want you to come along. Go across and
ask Martin if he'll let you have his team."

Charnock got up with a resigned shrug. "You are a hustler, Sadie. It's
not many minutes since you decided about the thing."

"I don't see what I'd get by waiting, and you may as well make up your
mind that you're going to hustle, too. Now get busy and go for
Martin's team."



CHAPTER XIII

AN UNEXPECTED MEETING

It was a bright afternoon and white-edged clouds rolled across the sky
before a fresh north-west wind when Helen Festing rode up to a birch
bluff on the prairie. The trees made a musical rustling as they tossed
their branches, tufted with opening leaves. The sweep of white grass
was checkered by patches of green that gleamed when the light touched
them and faded as the shadows swept across the plain. There was
something strangely invigorating in the air, but when she reached the
bluff Helen pulled up her horse and looked about.

She missed the soft blue haze that mellowed the landscape among the
English hills. Every feature was sharp and the colors were vivid;
ocher, green, and silver gleaming with light. Distant bluffs stood out
with sharp distinctness. She thought the new country was like its
inhabitants; they were marked by a certain primitive vigor and their
character was clearly defined. Neither the land nor the people had
been tamed by cultivation yet. One missed the delicate half-tones on
the prairie, but one heard and thrilled to the ringing note of
endeavor.

When she looked west the land was empty to the horizon, and a flock of
big sand-hill cranes planed down the wind. An animal she thought was
an antelope moved swiftly through the waves of rippling grass. When
she turned east she saw a plume of black smoke roll across the sky and
the tops of three elevators above the edge of the plain. It was a
portent, a warning of momentous change, in which she and her husband
must play their part. What that part would be she could not tell, but
the curtain was going up, and on the whole she approved the stage and
scenery.

Helen had been some time in Canada and did not feel daunted. The
sunshine and boisterous winds were bracing; one felt optimistic on the
high plains, and the wide outlook gave a sense of freedom. She had
many duties, but did not find them burdensome, or feel the strain of
domestic labor she had been warned about. For one thing, her money had
enabled Festing to arrange his household better than he had expected
and hire useful help.

She took a rough trail through the bluff, picking her way among the
holes and rotting stumps, and as she rode out the horse plunged. After
calming the startled animal she saw a dirty handkerchief snapping in
the wind at the top of a stick. Close by a team cropped the grass and
the end of a big plow projected from the back of a wagon. There seemed
to be nobody about, but after riding on a few yards she saw a man
lying among some bushes with a pipe in his mouth. He looked half
asleep, but got up as she advanced, and she stopped her horse with a
jerk and tried to preserve her calm. Charnock stood looking at her
with a half-embarrassed smile.

"Bob!" she exclaimed. "I didn't think I'd ever meet you."

"I hope it wasn't a shock, and we were bound to meet sooner or later.
The distance between our homesteads isn't great."

Helen had heard where his homestead was. Indeed, Festing had told her
that if he had known Charnock was coming to Donaldson's farm, he would
have located farther off. She would sooner have avoided the meeting,
but since it had happened, she must not cut it too short.

"But what is the handkerchief for?" she asked. "And why were you lying
there?"

"It's a signal of distress. Another trail crosses the rise a mile off,
and I was waiting in the hope that somebody might come along."

Helen now noted that a wheel of the wagon leaned to one side, and he
remarked her glance.

"The patent bush has got loose in the hub," he resumed. "I took the
pin out and then saw I might have trouble if the wheel came off. It
has been threatening to play this trick for some time."

"Then why didn't you put the bush right before you started?"

"I don't know. I expect you think it's typical."

Helen laughed. Bob was taking the proper line, and she studied him
with curiosity. He looked older than she thought, but remembering
Festing's hints, she did not see the mark of dissipation she had
expected. Indeed, Charnock, having spent a sober month or two under
Sadie's strict supervision, looked very well. His face was brown, his
eyes twinkled, and his figure was athletic. He did not seem to need
her pity, but she felt compassionate. After all, she had loved him and
he had married a girl from a bar.

"But where were you taking the plow?" she asked.

"To the smith's; one of the free preemptors has a forge some distance
off, and if I'm lucky, I may find him at home."

"You won't find him at home if you stop here."

"That's obvious," said Charnock. "Still, you see, the plow's too heavy
for me to lift out. Unless I do get it out, I can't try to put the
wheel right."

"Then why not take it to pieces?"

"The trouble is you need a bent spanner to get at some of the bolts."

"They give you spanners with the plows, and there's a box on the frame
to put them in. I've seen Stephen use the things."

"Just so," Charnock agreed. "Stephen's methodical, but when I want my
spanner it isn't in the box."

"You never were very careful," Helen remarked.

"I don't know if there's much comfort in feeling that I've paid for my
neglect."

Helen smiled; she was not going to be sentimental. "If you mean that
you lost the spanner, you don't seem to have suffered much. I think
you were asleep when I rode up. But I was surprised to hear you had
begun to farm again. Do you like it? And how are you getting on?"

"I like a number of things better, but that's not allowed to make much
difference. Sadie has decided that farming is good for me. However, I
am making some progress, though as you know my temperament, I'll admit
that I'm being firmly helped along."

There was silence for a few moments and Helen pondered. Bob had
generally been tactful and she thought his humor was rather brave. He,
no doubt, imagined she would soon learn all about his affairs and
meant to make the best of things.

In the meantime, Charnock quietly studied her. She looked very fresh
and prettier than he thought. Although she had not ridden much in
England, he noted the grace and confidence with which she managed the
spirited range horse. For all that, he was rather surprised by his
sensations. He had expected to feel some embarrassment and sentimental
tenderness when they met, but she left him cold; his pulse had not
quickened a beat. Still it would be good for Sadie to know Helen, who
could teach her much, and she unconsciously gave him a lead.

"Well," she said, "I must get home. I shall, no doubt, see you now and
then."

"Not often, if you leave it to accident," he replied with a smile. "If
you like to arrange the thing, there's a nice point of etiquette. You
occupied your homestead before we came to ours, but you see we were on
the prairie first. Anyhow, I'd be glad if you will let me bring Sadie
over."

Helen thought he was going too far. She did not want to arrange for a
meeting and would sooner not receive his wife. After all, the girl had
supplanted her. Still she was curious and could not refuse.

"I'm often busy and daresay Mrs. Charnock is, while Stephen does not
stop work until late. However, if you like to take your chance----"

"Thank you," said Charnock; "we'll take the risk of finding you not at
home. Now perhaps it wouldn't be much trouble if you told Jasper I'm
in difficulties. You'll see his place when you cross the ravine near
the bluff."

Helen rode away, but when she saw Jasper's farm it was a mile off the
trail and she had to cross a broken sandy belt. For all that, she
smiled as she made the round. It was typical of Bob to send her. He
might have tethered his horses and walked the distance, but he had a
talent for leaving to somebody else the things he ought to do.

After supper she sat on the veranda, while Festing leaned against the
rails. The house was built of ship-lap boards, with a roof of cedar
shingles, and wooden pillars supporting the projecting eaves. It had
been improved and made comfortable with Helen's money, and with the
land about it, registered as belonging to her. Festing had insisted on
this, rather against her will, because she had meant to make it a gift
to him. The wind, as usual at sunset, had dropped, and clear green
sky, touched with dull red on the horizon, overhung the plain. The air
was cold and bracing; sound carried far, and the musical chime of
cowbells came from a distant bluff. There were not many cattle in the
neighborhood, but the Government was trying to encourage stock-raising
and had begun to build creameries.

Helen meditatively studied her husband. Festing had been plowing since
sunrise and looked tired. Something had gone wrong with his gasoline
tractor, and she knew he had spent two or three hours finding out the
fault. This had annoyed him, because time was valuable and he was
impatient of delay. Helen approved his industry and the stubborn
perseverance that led to his overcoming many obstacles, but sometimes
thought he took things too hard and exaggerated their importance. Now
as he leaned against the balustrade he had the physical grace of a
well-trained athlete, but she thought his look was fretful and his
mind too much occupied.

"I met Bob by the long bluff as I rode home," she said.

Festing looked up sharply. "Well, I suppose you were bound to meet him
before long. What was he doing at the bluff?"

"Waiting for somebody to help him with his wagon," Helen answered with
a laugh. "A wheel was coming off."

"That was like Bob. He has a rooted objection to helping himself when
it means an effort."

"For all that, you were a friend of his."

"I'm not his friend now. I've done with the fellow."

"It's rather awkward," Helen remarked thoughtfully. "He asked if he
might bring his wife over, and although I wasn't very gracious, I
could not refuse."

"Oh, well, it doesn't matter. As I won't have a minute until the
sowing is finished, I'll be out when he comes. If he stayed with his
work just now, it would be better for him."

Helen was silent for a moment. Stephen was made of much finer stuff
than Bob, but he had not the latter's graceful humor and his curtness
jarred.

"There's no reason you should resume your friendship if you don't
like," she said. "All the same, I think you ought to be polite to my
guests."

"I can't pretend. The house is yours, but I don't want the fellow
here."

"But why do you dislike him so much?"

"I don't think you need ask me that. It's dangerous ground, but you
see----"

"I have forgiven him," Helen answered, smiling. "Indeed, if I hadn't
done so long since, it would be easy to forgive him now. At first, I
did feel dreadfully humiliated, but I soon saw what he had saved me
from. And, of course, if he had kept his promise, I could not have
married you."

Festing looked at her with surprise. In spite of her refinement, Helen
would now and then talk calmly about matters he shrank from
mentioning. But after the lead she had given him he could be frank.

"Well," he said, "I haven't forgiven him yet; I couldn't pretend
friendship with anybody who had slighted you. Besides, when I found
out how he had cheated me it was the worst moment of my life. I
thought you would never speak to me again because, through the
fellow's treachery, it was I who hurt you."

"You're very nice, Stephen," Helen replied, coloring. "But that's all
finished. Don't you like Bob's wife? I really don't want to meet her,
but one mustn't be a coward."

"You couldn't be a coward. Sadie has her virtues and is certainly much
too good for Bob, but I don't want her here for all that. Frankly,
she's not your sort, and she's meddlesome. I'm not afraid she'll make
you discontented, but I can't have a girl like that telling you how
your house ought to be run. Although you're a beginner, you manage
very well, and I'd object to improvements on somebody else's plan."

Helen smiled. "When you talk like that, you're charming; but we'll say
no more about it. You look tired. Are you sure you are not working too
hard? The last time Jasper came he seemed surprised when he saw the
ground you had broken. I imagined he thought you were trying to do too
much."

As she spoke she glanced at the wide belt of plowing that broke the
delicate green and silver of the grass. In the foreground, the rows of
clods shone with an oily gleam in the fading light. Farther off, the
rows converged and melted into a sweep of purple-brown that narrowed
as it crossed a distant rise. There were two other belts; one where
white grasses broke through the harrow-torn sod, and another flat and
smooth where the land-packer had rolled in the seed. All told of
strenuous effort in which sweating men and horses had been aided by
tractor machines.

"Jasper's conservative and I feel I ought to do as much as I can,"
Festing replied. "When you bought the place you rather put me on my
mettle."

Helen gave him a sharp glance. "I note that you spoke of it as my
house when you ought to have said ours. I don't like that, Stephen."

"It is yours. I let you buy it because it's value must go up and the
money's safe. I'm glad, of course, that you have comforts I couldn't
have given you, but it's my business to support my wife, and I've got
to increase my capital. I want to give you things you like, bought
with money I have earned."

"You really want to feel independent of me," Helen suggested with a
smile. "I suppose it's an honest ambition, but isn't the distinction
you try to make ridiculous?"

"Perhaps, in a way," Festing agreed. "All the same, your help makes it
my duty to do my best. I don't want to feel I might be forced to fall
back on your dollars."

"You are ridiculous, Stephen," Helen rejoined. "However, let's talk
about something else."

The talked good-humoredly until the dew and growing cold drove them
in. Next morning Helen got up while the sun rose from behind a bluff
on the edge of the plain, but when she went out on the veranda she saw
the gasoline tractor and gang-plow lurch across the rise. This
indicated that Festing had been at work for some time, and she looked
thoughtful as she went back into the house.

Stephen was doing too much, and she wondered whether he could keep it
up. Things, however, might be easier when the crop was sown, and if
not she must insist upon his hiring extra help. She liked to see him
keen about his work, but for the last few weeks he had scarcely had a
minute to talk to her, and she could not allow him to wear himself
out. After all, her money gave her some power, and there was no reason
she should not use the power for her husband's benefit.



CHAPTER XIV

SADIE FINDS A FRIEND

The sun shone hot on the rippling grass, but it was cool on the shady
veranda where Helen sat in a basket chair. A newspaper lay close by
and the loose leaves fluttered now and then, but she did not notice
that it was in some danger of blowing away. She had been occupied
since early morning, but was not quite asleep, for she was vaguely
conscious of a rhythmic drumming. By and by she raised her head with a
jerk and glanced at the watch on her wrist. It was three o'clock and
she had been dozing for an hour. Then the drumming fixed her attention
and she saw a rig lurch along the uneven trail. The horses were
trotting fast and there were two people in the light wagon.

Helen saw that one was Charnock. The other, who held the reins, was,
no doubt, his wife, and Helen was sorry that Festing was at work
beyond the rise. She would have liked him to be there when she
received her visitors, but did not think it prudent to send for him.
The rig was near the house now, and as she got up her dress moved the
newspaper, which was caught by a draught and blew down the stairs and
across the grass. It flapped in the fresh wind and fell near the
horses' feet.

This was too much for the range-bred animals to stand, and they reared
and plunged, and then began to back away from the fluttering white
object. Charnock jumped out and ran towards their heads, but Sadie
raised her whip with a gesture of command.

"Don't butt in, Bob; I'm going to take them past."

Charnock stood back obediently, though his alert pose hinted that he
was ready to run forward if he were needed, and Helen studied his
companion.

Sadie, dressed in black and white, with a black feather in her white
hat, was braced back on the driving seat, with one hand on the reins
while she used the whip. There was a patch of bright color in her
face, her eyes flashed, and the rigidity of her figure gave her an air
of savage resolution. She looked a handsome virago as she battled with
the powerful horses, which plunged and kicked while the wagon rocked
among the ruts. Helen watched the struggle with somewhat mixed
feelings. This was the girl for whom Bob had given her up!

After an exciting minute or two Sadie forced the horses to pass the
fluttering paper, and then pulled them up.

"Where's Stephen?" she asked.

Helen said he was harrowing on the other side of the rise, and Sadie,
getting down, signed to Charnock.

"Put the team in the stable, and then go and look for Festing. Don't
come back too soon."

Then she came towards the house and Helen felt half-annoyed and half-
amused. Stephen did not like to be disturbed when he was busy, and she
knew what he thought of Bob. Moreover, she wondered with some
curiosity what Mrs. Charnock had to say to her. Sadie sat down and
waited until she recovered breath.

"You know who I am," she remarked presently. "Bob can drive all right,
but he's too easy with the team. I don't see why I should get down
before I want because the horses are scared by a paper."

"Perhaps it was better to make them go on, but they nearly upset you,"
Helen agreed with a smile.

Sadie gave her a steady, criticizing glance, but her naïve curiosity
softened her rudeness.

"Well, I wanted to see you. Looks as if Bob was a fool, in one way,
but I guess I can see him through what he's up against on the prairie
better than you."

Helen had been prejudiced against Mrs. Charnock, but her blunt
sincerity was disarming. Besides, she had expected something
different; a hint of defiance, or suspicious antagonism.

"It's very possible," she said. "Everything is strange here. I feel
rather lost sometimes and have much to learn."

Sadie studied her closely, and after pondering for a few moments
resumed: "When I was driving over I didn't know how I was going to
take you; in fact, I've been bothering about it for some time. I
thought you might be dangerous."

"You thought I might be dangerous!" Helen exclaimed with rising color.
"Surely you understand--"

"Now you wait a bit and let me finish! Well, I might have come now and
then, found out what I could, and given you a hint or two, until we
saw how things were going to be. But that's not my way, and I reckon
it's not yours. Very well. We have got to have a talk and put the
thing over. To begin with, I somehow feel I can trust you, and needn't
be disturbed."

"Then I'm afraid you are rash," Helen rejoined with a resentment that
was softened by a touch of humor. "You can't form a reliable opinion,
because you don't know me."

"That's so, but I know Bob."

Helen laughed. She ought to be angry, for Mrs. Charnock was taking an
extraordinary line. But perhaps it was the best line, because it would
clear the ground. She said nothing and Sadie went on:

"How do you like it here?"

"Very much. I like the open country and the fresh air. Then I think I
like the people, and one has so much to do that there is not time to
feel moody. It's bracing to find every minute occupied by something
useful."

"If you feel that way about it, you'll make good. And you've got a
fine man for your husband. When Festing first came to the bridge I
didn't know if I'd take him or Bob. In fact, I thought about it for
quite a time."

Helen's eyes sparkled. Mrs. Charnock was going too far, but she
controlled her resentment.

"After all, were you not taking something for granted?"

"Well," said Sadie thoughtfully, "if I'd tried hard, I might have got
Steve then, but I don't know if I'd have been any happier with him.
He'd have gone his own way and taken me along; a good way, perhaps,
but it wouldn't have been mine. Bob's different; sometimes he has to
be hustled and sometimes led, but you get fond of a man you must take
care of. Then everybody likes Bob, and he kind of grows on you. I
don't know how it is, but you can't get mad with him."

Helen thought there was something humiliating to Bob in his wife's
patience, but she was moved. Mrs. Charnock loved her husband, though
she knew his faults. Then Sadie resumed in a harder voice:

"Anyhow, he's mine and I know how to keep what belongs to me."

"I imagine you will keep him. I have no wish to take him away."

"Well, that's why I came. I wanted to see you, and now I'm satisfied.
Bob needs a friend like your husband and he puts Steve pretty high. If
you can see your way to let us drive over now and then evenings----"

Helen pondered this. Stephen might object, but he was not
unreasonable, and his society would certainly be good for Bob. She was
not altogether pleased by the thought of the Charnocks' visits, but
Sadie's resolve to help her husband had touched her. Then there was
something flattering in the hint that she and Stephen could take a
part in his reformation.

"Very well," she said. "I hope you will come when you like. It will do
Stephen no harm to get a rest instead of hurrying back to work after
supper."

Sadie looked grateful. "We'll certainly come. I've talked to you as
I'd have talked to nobody else, but you know Bob most as well as I do.
But perhaps there's enough said. Won't you show me the house?"

Helen realized that she had made an alliance with Mrs. Charnock for
Bob's protection, and was conscious of a virtuous thrill. The work she
had undertaken was good, but she remembered with faint uneasiness that
she had pledged her husband to it without his consent. She showed
Sadie the house, and while there was much the latter admired, she
made, from her larger knowledge of the plains, a number of suggestions
that Helen thought useful. By and by Bob returned with Festing for
supper, and stopped for another hour. When he and Sadie had gone
Festing frowned as he glanced at his watch.

"It's too late to finish the job I wanted to do tonight," he said, and
indicated the dark figures of a man and horses silhouetted against the
sunset on the crest of the rise. "There's Jules coming home. He
couldn't get on without me."

Helen pretended not to notice his annoyance. "After all, you're not
often disturbed, and a little relaxation is good. I've no doubt you
had an amusing talk with Bob."

"Bob bored me badly, though we didn't talk much. I was driving the
disc-harrows and he lay in the grass. I had to stop for a few minutes
every time I reached the turning and listen to his remarks."

"And you feel you deserve some sympathy?" Helen said with a laugh.
"Well, I suppose it was an infliction to be forced to talk."

Festing's annoyance vanished. "I mustn't make too much of it. I really
don't object to talking when I've finished my work."

"When do you finish your work, Stephen?"

"That's a fair shot! In summer, I stop when it's too dark to see. The
annoying thing wasn't so much the stopping as Bob's attitude. He lay
there with his pipe, looking as if nothing would persuade him to work,
and his smile hinted that he thought delaying me an excellent joke. I
believe I was polite, but certainly hope he won't come back."

Helen thought it was not the proper time to tell him about the
invitation she had given Sadie, and she said, "Idleness seems to jar
you."

"It does. I dislike the man who demands the best to eat and drink and
won't use his brain or muscle if he can help. In this country, the
thing's immoral; the fellow's obviously a cheat. We live by our labor,
raising grain and cattle--"

"But what about the people in the towns?"

"A number of them handle our products and supply us with tools. Of
course, there are speculators and real-estate boomsters who gamble
with our earnings, but their job is not as easy as it looks. They run
big risks and bear some strain. Still, if it was left to me, I'd make
them plow."

Helen laughed. "You're rather drastic, Stephen; but if one takes the
long view, I dare say you are right."

"Then let's take the narrowest view we can. When a farmer who hasn't
much money loafs about the poolroom and lies on his back, smoking,
it's plain that he's taking advantage of somebody else. Perhaps the
thing's shabbiest when he puts his responsibilities on his wife.
That's what Bob does."

"I'm afraid he does," Helen admitted, and mused, while Festing lighted
his pipe.

Stephen was not a prig and she recognized the justice of his
arguments, but he was rather hard and his views were too clear-cut. He
saw that a thing was good or bad, but could not see that faults and
virtues sometimes merged and there was good in one and bad in the
other.

"Well," she said, "I like Mrs. Charnock, and she is certainly
energetic and practical. She went over the house and suggested some
improvements. For example, you are building a windmill pump for the
cattle, and it wouldn't cost very much to bring a pipe to the house. A
tap is a great convenience and would save Jules' time filling up the
tank."

"It will need a long pipe and cost more than Sadie thinks, but I'll
have it done. However, I wish I had thought of it and she hadn't made
the suggestion. I don't want Sadie interfering with our house."

"But you don't dislike Mrs. Charnock."

"Not in a way; but I don't know that I want to see her here. Sadie has
a number of good points, but she's rather fond of managing other
folks' affairs. Then she's not your kind."

On the whole, Helen was not displeased. Mrs. Charnock's bold
statements that she could have got Stephen if she had wanted had
jarred, but it looked as if she had made an empty boast.

"I thought you were a democrat," she remarked, smiling.

"So I am, in general; but when it's a matter of choosing my wife's
friends, I'm an exclusive aristocrat. That's the worst of having
theories; they don't apply all round."

Helen thought his utilitarian dislike of idleness was open to this
objection, but it was not the time to urge Bob's cause. She would wait
for another opportunity, when Stephen had not been delayed, and she
made him a humorous curtsey.

"Sometimes you're rather bearish, and sometimes you're very nice," she
said, and went into the house.

The Charnocks returned a week later and came again at regular
intervals, while Helen rode over to their house now and then. Festing
refused to accompany her and sometimes grumbled, but on the whole
tolerated Charnock's visits so long as they did not delay his work.
Nothing must be allowed to interfere with that, for he was uneasily
conscious that he had set himself too big a task. His dislike to using
his wife's money had spurred him on, and he had sown a very large crop
at a heavy expense for labor, horses, and machines. Now he must spare
no effort to get his money back, and much depended on the weather.
Indeed, he was beginning to feel the strain of the unrelaxing exertion
and care about details, and this sometimes reacted upon his temper.
Still he must hold out until the crop was reaped, after which he could
go easy during the winter months.

One hot afternoon, he lay under a mower in a sloo where the melted
snow had run in spring and the wild grass now grew tall. It made good
hay and the fierce sun had dried it well, so that he had only to cut
and haul it home; but something had gone wrong with the machine, and
after taking out the broken knife he dismantled the driving gear. When
he crawled out, with a greasy cogwheel in his hand, he was soaked with
perspiration and his overalls were stained by oil. The mosquitoes,
that did not as a rule venture out in the strong wind and sun, had
bitten him badly while he lay in the grass.

"You had better wait for ten minutes and take a smoke," said Charnock,
who had come up quietly and sat in the shade of the partly-loaded
wagon. "You'll get on faster when you have cooled down."

"You believe in waiting, don't you?" Festing rejoined.

Charnock laughed. "I feel justified in going slow just now. Sadie has
given me a day off, and when she doesn't think I ought to work it
certainly isn't necessary. It saves you some bother if you can leave
that sort of thing to your wife."

"Pshaw!" said Festing. "You make me tired."

He picked up the broken knife and looked at Charnock. Bob was
bantering him, exaggerating his slackness. As a matter of fact, the
fellow was not so lazy as he pretended; Sadie was beginning to wake
him up. Stephen did not know if he had forgiven him or not, but they
had gradually dropped back into something like their old relations.

"You might take off the broken blades," he resumed. "You'll find new
ones in the box. They ought to be riveted, but if you use the short
bolts and file down the nuts, I dare say they'll run through the
guides."

Then he crawled back under the machine and did not come out until he
head a rattle of wheels. Wilkinson, whom he knew and disliked, stopped
his team close by and began to talk to Charnock. This annoyed Festing,
because he was nearly ready to replace the knife.

"I called at your place and found you were out," Wilkinson remarked.
"They told me where you had gone, and when I saw Festing's wagon I
reckoned you might have gone with him. You come here pretty often,
don't you?"

"Steve's patient," Charnock replied with a twinkle. "I'm not sure he
enjoys my visits, but he puts up with them."

"Well, I want you to drive over to-morrow evening. A man you know from
Winnipeg is coming to see me about a deal in Brandon building lots.
The thing looks good and ought to turn out a snap."

"The trouble is I haven't much money to invest," Charnock answered,
and Festing thought he was hesitating. It looked as if Wilkinson had
not seen him yet, for he was standing behind the machine.

"I understand you have a bigger interest in the farm than you had in
the hotel and something might be arranged. Anyhow, come over and hear
what our friend has to say."

"You'll be a fool if you go, Bob," Festing interposed.

"I don't know that this is your business," Wilkinson rejoined. "I
haven't suggested that you should join us."

"You know I wouldn't join you. I had one deal with you, and that's
enough. No doubt you remember selling me the brown horse."

"You tried the horse before you bought him."

"I did. He was quiet then, but I've since suspected that he was doped.
Anyhow, he nearly killed my hired man."

Wilkinson laughed. "You had your trial and backed your judgment. Know
more about machines than horses, don't you?"

"I didn't know the man I dealt with then. You warranted the brute
good-tempered and easy to drive. I'll give you five dollars if you'll
take him out of the stable and harness him now."

"I haven't time," said Wilkinson. "Didn't charge you high and guess
you've got to pay for learning your business. The trouble is you're
too sure about yourself and reckoned you'd make a splash at farming
without much trouble. Anyhow, I don't want to sell Charnock a horse;
he's a better judge than you."

"He's not much judge of building lots. If your friend has got a safe
snap, why do you want to let Charnock in?"

Wilkinson began to look impatient. "I came over to talk to Charnock,
and if he likes the deal it's not your affair."

"It is my affair if you stop him when he's helping me," Festing
rejoined. "If he's a fool, he'll talk to you some other time; if he's
wise, he won't. Just now I'd sooner you drove off my farm."

Wilkinson gave him a curious look. "Very well. I reckon the place is
yours; or your wife's." Then he turned to Charnock. "Are you coming
over, Bob?"

"No," said Charnock, irresolutely, "I don't think I will."

He lighted his pipe when Wilkinson started his team, and presently
remarked: "On the whole, I'm glad you headed him off, because I might
have gone. You mean well, Stephen, but that man doesn't like you, and
I've sometimes thought he doesn't like Sadie."

"It doesn't matter if he likes me or not," said Festing. "Let's get on
with the mower.



CHAPTER XV

THE CHEQUE

The North-west breeze was fresher than usual when, one afternoon,
Helen rode through a belt of sand-hills on her way to the Charnock
farm. Clouds of dust blew about the horse's feet, and now and then
fine grit whistled past her head. She had her back to the boisterous
wind, but she urged the horse until they got behind a grove of scrub
poplars. Then she rolled up her veil and wiped her face before she
looked about.

Round, dark clouds rolled across the sky, as they had done since
spring, but for nearly a month none had broken. A low ridge, streaked
by flying shadows, ran across the foreground, and waves of dust rose
and fell about its crest. Sandy belts are common on parts of the
prairie, and when they fringe cultivated land are something of a
danger in a dry season, because the loose sand travels far before the
wind.

Beyond the sand-hills, the level grass was getting white and dry, and
in the distance the figures of a man and horses stood out against a
moving cloud of dust. Helen supposed he was summer-fallowing, but did
not understand the dust, because when she last passed the spot the
soil looked dark and firm. She remembered that Festing had been
anxious about the weather.

Riding on, she saw the roof of the Charnock homestead above a
straggling bluff, and her thoughts centered on its occupants. Strange
as the thing was, she had come to think of Sadie as her friend. Her
loyalty and her patience with her husband commanded respect, and now
it looked as if they would be rewarded. Bob was taking an interest in
his farm and had worked with steady industry for the last month or
two. Helen thought she deserved some credit for this; she had had a
part in Bob's reformation and had made Stephen help.

Sadie trusted her, and no suspicion or jealousy marked their
relations. Indeed, Helen wondered why she had at one time been drawn
to Bob. Were she free to do so, she would certainly not marry him now.
Still she had loved him, and this gave her thoughts about him a vague,
sentimental gentleness. It was a comfort to feel that she had done
something to turn his wandering feet into the right path.

When she reached the homestead she found Sadie looking disturbed. Her
face was hard, but her eyes were red, and Helen suspected that she had
been crying. It was obvious that something serious had happened,
because Sadie's pluck seldom broke down.

"I'm glad you came," the latter said. "I'm surely in trouble."

Helen asked what the trouble was, and Sadie told her in jerky
sentences. Charnock had started for the railroad early that morning,
and after he left she discovered that he had written a cheque, payable
to Wilkinson.

"It's not so much the money, but to feel he has cheated me and broken
loose when I thought he was cured," she concluded. "He has been going
steady, but now that brute has got hold of him he'll hang around the
settlement, tanking and betting, for a week or two. Then he'll be
slack and moody and leave the farm alone, and I'll have to begin the
job again."

Sadie paused, with tears in her eyes, and then pulled herself
together. "Pshaw!" she said, "I'm a silly fool. Before you came I
thought I'd quit and let Bob go his own way; but I'm not beaten yet.
If Wilkinson wants him, there's going to be some fight. Now, I want
you to ride over with me to the fellow's place."

Helen felt sympathetic. Sadie's resentment was justified, and she
looked rather refined when angry. Her stiff pose lent her a touch of
dignity; her heightened color and the sparkle in her eyes gave her
face the charm of animation. Moreover, her want of reserve no longer
jarred. Reserve is not very common on the plains.

"But you must tell me something about it first," Helen replied. "How
did you find out he had written the cheque?"

"I suspected something after he'd gone and looked for his cheque-book.
He'd torn out a form, but hadn't filled up the tab. Bob's silly when
he's cunning and didn't think about his blotter. The top sheet was
nearly clean and I read what he'd written, in a looking-glass."

"Why did he give Wilkinson the money?"

"I guess it's to speculate in wheat or building-lots, and Bob will
certainly lose it all; but that's not what makes me mad. After all,
it's his money; he's been saving it since he steadied down. I can
manage Bob if he's left alone, and thought I'd cut out the friends he
shouldn't have. Wilkinson was the only danger left, but he's a blamed
tough proposition."

Helen knew Festing disliked the man, but she felt puzzled. "The sum is
not very large," she said. "I don't quite see why Wilkinson thought it
worth while----"

"It shows he's pinched for money, and there's some hope in that. Then
he doesn't like me, and I imagine he has a pick on your husband.
Stephen froze him off one day when he was getting after Bob. Anyhow, I
mean to get the money back."

"But can you? It is Bob's cheque."

"I'm going to try. The bank deals with /me/," Sadie answered. "But
come along; I hear the hired man bringing the rig."

When they got into the vehicle, Helen remarked that Sadie had brought
a flexible riding whip. Since the quirt was useless for driving, Helen
wondered what she meant to do with it. The trail they took ran through
the grass, a sinuous riband of hard-beaten soil that flashed where it
caught the light. It was seamed by ruts and fringed by wild barley but
in places the grass had spread across it, leaving gaps, into which the
horses' legs and the wheel sank. The smell of wild peppermint rose
from among the crackling stalks as the team brushed through. Now and
then a prairie-hen got up, and small animals, like English squirrels,
squatted by the trail until the wheels were nearly upon them, and then
dived into holes.

"The gophers are surely plentiful," Sadie remarked. "Don't know that
I've seen so many around before, and that's going to be bad for the
grain. They're generally worst when the crop is poor."

"Do you think the crop will be poor?"

Sadie glanced at the sky, which was a dazzling blue, flooded with
light, except where the scattered clouds drove by.

"We didn't get the June rains, and the frost-damp has gone down pretty
deep. Then we have had very few thunder-storms, and the sand is
blowing bad. It makes trouble in parts of Manitoba, but the scrub
trees in our sand-hills generally hold it up. What does Steve think?"

"He hasn't told me. Sometimes he looks anxious, but he doesn't talk
about it much."

"That's Steve's way. I don't know if it's a good way. He sees when
he's up against a hard thing and makes his own plans. Now I want to
know my husband's troubles. You feel better when you can talk."

Helen agreed with Sadie; she often wished Stephen would talk to her
about his anxieties. He wanted to save her and had confidence in
himself, but she felt that he left her out too much.

"How does the sand damage the wheat?" she asked.

"Cuts the stalk. Takes time, of course, but the sharp grit puts down
the grain like a binder knife, if it blows through the field long
enough. However, I'm not worrying much about that; there are worse
things than the sand and drought. We're fools and make our real
troubles; that's what's the matter with us."

Helen smiled. Sadie was amusing when philosophized, but Helen thought
her views were sound. She had chosen a stern country, but its stinging
cold and boisterous winds were invigorating, and with pluck one could
overcome its material obstacles. It was human weaknesses that made for
unhappiness.

"Well," she said, "we must hope the rain will come; but hadn't we
better go by the long bluff? The new man has put a fence across the
other trail."

Sadie left the trail, and as they crossed a hollow the tall grass
rustled about the horses' legs. It had lost its verdure; the red
lilies and banks of yellow flowers had withered on their parched
stalks. When they reached the level the grass was only a few inches
high and the wide plain rolled back in the strong light, shining pale-
yellow and gray. It was only when the shadows passed that one could
see streaks and patches of faded green. In the distance a cluster of
roofs broke the bare expanse, and Helen knew they marked the Wilkinson
ranch. A horse and buggy approached it, looking very small, and she
glanced at Sadie, who said nothing, although her face was stern. By
and by the latter stopped her team in front of the homestead and
fastened the reins to a post.

"Now," she said, "you sit on the veranda and wait for me. It was
Wilkinson's rig we saw, and I'll find him in."

Wilkinson looked up from the table at which he was writing when Sadie
entered the room. He was, on the whole, a handsome man, but was rather
fat, and his black eyes were unusually close together. This perhaps
accounted for the obliquity of his glance, which, some believed,
conveyed a useful hint about his character. He was neatly dressed in
light, summer clothes, although the farmers generally wore brown
overalls. As he got up his look indicated that he was trying to hide
his annoyance.

"This is something of a surprise, Mrs. Charnock," he said politely.
"However, if there's anything I can do--"

"You can sit down again in the meantime," Sadie replied, and occupied
a chair opposite, with the quirt on her knee. "To begin with, if
you're writing to your Winnipeg friend, you had better wait a bit."

"I'm not writing to Winnipeg; but don't see what this has to do with
your visit."

"Then you haven't sent off Bob's cheque yet! I mean to get it back."

Wilkinson saw that he had made a rash admission. Mrs. Charnock was
cleverer than he thought.

"If Bob wants it back, why didn't he come himself?"

"He doesn't know I have come," Sadie answered calmly.

Wilkinson studied her and did not like her look. Her face was hard,
her color higher than usual, and her eyes sparkled ominously.

"Well," he said, "you told me you would pay no more of your husband's
debts, but this is not a debt. Besides, the money must be Bob's, since
he gave me the cheque."

"Why did he give it you?"

The question was awkward, because Wilkinson did not want to state that
he had persuaded Bob to join him in a speculation. This was the best
construction that could be put upon the matter, and he did not think
it would satisfy Mrs. Charnock.

"Why does a man give another a cheque?" he rejoined, with a look of
good-humor that he did not feel.

"The best reason I know of is--for value received. But this doesn't
apply. You allowed it wasn't a debt, so Bob has got no value."

"One sometimes pays for value one expects to get."

Sadie laughed scornfully. "If that's what Bob has done, he'll get
badly stung. There's nothing coming to him from a deal with you. I
guess you don't claim he made you a present of the money?"

"I don't," said Wilkinson, with a frown, for he thought he saw where
she was leading him.

"Very well. One pays for something one has got or is going to get, and
as we can rule out both reasons, the cheque is bad. In fact, it's not
worth keeping. Better give it me back."

"Your argument looks all right, Mrs. Charnock, but you don't start
from sure ground. How do you know there's nothing coming to your
husband?"

"I know you," Sadie rejoined. "Anyhow, the cheque is certainly bad.
They'll turn it down if you take it to the bank."

Wilkinson made an abrupt movement. "You can't stop your husband's
cheque. You don't mean he hasn't the dollars to meet it?"

"I don't," said Sadie, with an angry flush. "Bob is honest. The
money's there, but if you think the bank will pay when I tell them
not, go and see. The manager knows me and he knows you."

Wilkinson saw that he was beaten, but tried to hide his anger. "Well,
it looks as if Bob was lucky. He has a wife who will take care of him,
and I reckon he needs something of the kind. However, here's the
cheque; I want a receipt."

Sadie wrote the receipt and he noted that her hand shook. As she got
up he glanced at the quirt.

"Did you ride over? I thought I heard a rig."

"I drove," said Sadie. "Looks as I needn't have brought the quirt.
Well, I'm glad you agreed about the cheque being bad. I meant to get
it anyhow."

Wilkinson gave her a curious look, but said nothing and she went out.

"I've saved Bob's money," she told Helen as she started the team.
"Wilkinson saw my arguments and didn't kick as much as I expected, but
he certainly doesn't like me any better. I think he'll make trouble if
he can."

"That seems unlikely," Helen remarked. "I imagine that as you have
beaten him he'll be glad to let the matter drop. No doubt he wanted
the money and was vexed because he had to give it up, but I hardly
think he'll try to revenge himself on you. Men don't do these things."

"My husband and yours don't, but Wilkinson is different," Sadie
answered.

Charnock had not returned when she reached the farm, and after Helen
left she sat on the veranda, feeling disturbed. Bob had told her he
was going to the railroad to bring out some goods, but he could have
got back two or three hours earlier. Then Wilkinson no doubt knew
where he had gone. A small settlement, with two new hotels, had sprung
up round the station, and as the place was easily reached by the
construction gangs there was now and then some drunkenness and
gambling. For all that, Sadie did not mean to anticipate trouble, and
set about some household work that her drive had delayed. It got dark
before she finished, but Bob did not come, and she went outside again.

The night was clear and refreshingly cold after the scorching day. The
wind had dropped, everything was very quiet, and she could see for
some distance across the plain. The hollows were picked out by belts
of darker shadow, and the scattered bluffs made dim gray blurs, but
nothing moved on the waste, and she did not hear the beat of hoofs she
listened for.

For a time she sat still, lost in gloomy thought. Bob's relapse had
been a bitter disappointment, because she had begun to hope that the
danger of his resuming his former habits was past. He had stuck to his
work, which seemed to absorb his interest, and had looked content.
There was ground for believing that with a little judicious
encouragement he might make a good farmer, and Sadie did not grudge
the patient effort necessary to keep him in the proper path. Now he
had left it again and might wander far before she could lead him back.

For all that, she did not mean to give up. She had fought hard for Bob
and was resolved to win, while there was a ray of comfort. The woman
she had at first thought a danger was her best friend, and she felt
for Helen Festing a grateful admiration that sometimes moved her
deeply. Helen had many advantages that she could not have combated had
they been used against her: grace, polish, and a knowledge of the
world in which Bob had lived. But Helen was on her side. Sadie's
admiration was perhaps warranted, but she undervalued her own patience
and courage.

At length she got drowsy and forgot her troubles. She did not think
she really went to sleep, but after a time she got up with a start. A
beat of hoofs and rattle of wheels had roused her, and she saw a rig
coming towards the house. For a minute or two she stood shivering and
trying to brace herself. If Bob was driving, things might be better
than she thought; but when the horses stopped another man got down.

"Perhaps you'd better rouse out your hired man, Mrs. Charnock," he
said awkwardly. "I've got your husband here, but it's going to take
two of us to bring him in."

Sadie brought a lamp and, with her mouth firmly set, looked into the
rig. Bob lay upon some sacks in an ungainly attitude, and the jolting
had not broken his heavy sleep. It was some time since he had come
home like this, and Sadie felt dejected and tired. Then with an effort
she went to waken the hired man.

They carried Charnock in, and when she had given the driver some money
she sat down and indulged her passionate indignation. Wilkinson had
sent the rig, but had not been prompted by kindness when he told the
man to drive Bob back; it was his revenge for his defeat. He had found
Bob, made him drunk, when there was nothing to be gained by doing so,
and sent him home like this. The fellow was poison-mean, but she
thought him rash. He had struck her a cruel blow, but she did not mean
to sit still and nurse the wound. She must strike back with all the
force she could use and make him sorry he had provoked her to fight.
Then, putting off her half-formed plans until next day, she went to
bed.



CHAPTER XVI

A COUNTER-STROKE

When Sadie got up next morning she ordered the buggy to be brought
round, and then went to look at Charnock. He was asleep, of which she
was rather glad, because there was something to be said and she was
highly strung. She could not trust her temper yet and might go too
far. Bob was generally docile, particularly when repentant; but it was
possible to drive him into an obstinate mood when nothing could be
done with him. She was angry, but her anger was mainly directed
against Wilkinson.

After breakfast she drove off across the plain. It was about eight
o'clock, but the sun was hot. The breeze was not so fresh as usual,
and a bank of dark clouds rolled up above the prairie's edge. They
looked solid and their rounded masses shone an oily black, and she
wondered whether they promised one of the thunder-storms that often
broke upon the plains on summer afternoons. She would have welcomed
the savage downpour, even if it had spoiled her clothes.

Sadie was getting anxious about the crop. Its failure would mean a
serious loss, and she hated to see labor and money wasted; but this
was not all. Knowing the risks the farmer ran on newly-broken land,
she had not adventured too much of her capital on the first year's
harvest; but success might encourage Bob, while failure would
certainly daunt him. He would work for an object he was likely to
gain, but if disappointed, regretted the exertions he had made, and
refused, with humorous logic, to be stirred to fresh effort.

"I'm not convinced that farming's my particular duty," he once said.
"When I plow it's in the expectation of cashing the elevator warrants
for the grain. If I'm not to reap the crop, it seems to me that
working fourteen hours a day is a waste of time that might be
agreeably employed in shooting or riding about."

Sadie urged that one got nothing worth having without a struggle. Bob
rejoined: "If you get the thing you aim at, the struggle's justified;
if you don't you think of what you've missed while you were uselessly
employed. Of course, if you like a struggle, you have the satisfaction
of following your bent; but hustling is a habit that has no charm for
me."

Sadie reflected that the last remark was true. Bob never hustled; his
talk and movements were marked by a languid grace that sometimes
pleased and sometimes irritated her. It was difficult to make him
angry, and she was often silenced by his whimsical arguments when she
knew she was right. But he was her husband, and she meant to baulk the
man who hoped to profit by his carelessness.

Then she urged the horse. It was a long drive to the settlement where
she had kept the hotel, and she had not been there for some time. The
goods she and her neighbors bought came from the new settlement on the
railroad, which was not far off; but she had an object in visiting the
other. It was noon when she reached the hotel and sat down to dinner
in the familiar room. She did not know if she was pleased or
disappointed to find the meal served as well as before, but her
thoughts were not cheerful while she ate. She remembered her ambitions
and her resolve to leave the dreary plains and make her mark in
Toronto or Montreal. Now her dreams had vanished and she must grapple
with dull realities that jarred her worse than they had done.

The dining-room was clean, but unattractive, with its varnished board
walls, bare floor, and wire-mesh filling the skeleton door, which a
spring banged to before the mosquitoes could get in. There were no
curtains or ventilator-fans, the room was very hot, and the glaring
sunshine emphasized its ugliness. Then it was full of flies that fell
upon boards and tables from the poisonous papers, and a big gramophone
made a discordant noise. Sadie remembered Keller's pride in the
machine and how he had bought it, to amuse the boys, after hearing an
electric organ in a Montreal restaurant. Yet she knew her craving for
society must be gratified at such places as this; a rare visit to the
settlement was the only change from monotonous toil.

When she offered her meal-ticket at the desk the clerk shook his head.

"You don't need to open your wallet in this house. The boss left word
he'd be glad to see you at the store."

Sadie, who had meant to see the proprietor, complied, and found him
and his wife in the back office, where she and Bob had often sat. The
woman gave Sadie a friendly smile.

"I hope they served you well. When you're in town we want you to use
the house like it still belonged to you."

Sadie made a suitable reply. She had charged a good price for the
business, but had stuck to the Keller traditions and made a straight
deal. Stock and furniture had been justly valued, and when the buyers
examined the accounts she had frankly told them which debts were
doubtful and which were probably bad. It was about these things they
wished to talk to her, and she meant to indulge them.

"How's trade?" she asked, to give them a lead.

"In one way, it's good," replied the man. "We're selling out as fast
as we can get the truck; but there's a point I want your views about.
The cheque I gave you wiped off most all the capital I had,
wholesalers put up their prices if you make them wait, and a number of
the boys have a bad habit of letting their bills run on. Now, if you
can give me some advice----."

"Certainly," said Sadie, who thought the woman looked anxious.
"Suppose you read out the names and what they owe?"

The man opened a ledger, and she told him what she knew about his
customers; whom he could trust and whom he had better refuse further
credit. Then she looked thoughtful when he said: "Wilkinson, of the
range--"

"He didn't deal with us."

"But you know everybody round here and can tell me if he's likely to
make good," the man urged.

"How much does he owe you?" Sadie asked.

The man named a rather large sum and she pretended to consider.

"Well," she replied, "the boys have probably told you that Wilkinson's
not a friend of mine, and since that's so I'm not going to say much
about his character."

"It's not his character we're curious about. Do you know how he's
fixed?"

Sadie was silent for a few moments. The others were young and newly
married and had admitted that the purchase of the business had
strained their resources. It was plain that a large bad debt might
involve them in difficulties. Wilkinson had forced her to fight, and
she meant to show him no mercy, but she must say nothing that could
afterwards be brought up against her.

"Character counts for as much as dollars," she remarked. "That was my
father's motto, and he was never afraid to take steep chances by
backing an honest man. Although he had debts on his books for three or
four years, it was seldom a customer let him down. But he cut out a
crook as soon as he suspected what the fellow was. However, you want
to know how Wilkinson stands? Well, it's a sure thing he finds dollars
tight."

"Anyhow, a man can't disown his debts in this country."

"That's so; but if he's a farmer, the homestead laws stop your seizing
his house and land and part of his stock, unless he has mortgaged them
to you. If somebody else holds a mortgage, you generally get stung."

"The trouble is that if you're too hard on a customer, he tells his
friends, and the opposition gets his trade and theirs."

"Sure," said Sadie, "Keller's let the opposition have that kind of
trade. A crook's friends are generally like himself, and there's not
much profit in selling goods to folk who don't mean to pay."

"Has Wilkinson given a mortgage?" the man asked.

"If he had, it's got to be registered. You can find out at the record
office, and I guess it would pay you to go and see."

"Well, I hear he's just sold a good bunch of horses. That means he'll
have some money for a while."

"Then you had better take your bills over and get them paid before the
money's gone," Sadie answered in a meaning tone.

"If you had the store, would you risk his being able to pay all right
and afterwards dropping you?"

"I certainly would," said Sadie. "I'd harness my team and start for
the range right now."

The woman looked at her husband. "That's my notion, Tom; you'd better
go," she said, and turned to Sadie. "It would hit us hard if
Wilkinson's bill got much longer and he let us down."

Sadie left them and went to a new store farther up the street, after
which she called on an implement dealer who occasionally speculated in
real estate and mortgages, and one or two others. She knew them all,
and they knew that on business matters her judgment was sound. It was
plain that they were suspicious about Wilkinson, but, so far,
undecided what to do. They had doubts, but hesitated to admit that
they had been rash, and shrank from using means that might cost them a
customer. Sadie gave one information she had gathered from another,
and added hints of what she herself knew. The tact she used prevented
their guessing that she had an object, and she did little more than
bring their own suspicions to a head; but she was satisfied when she
returned to the hotel.

When the horse had rested she drove out of the settlement. For some
distance a wire fence ran along the dusty, graded road, but it ended
at a hollow, seamed by deep ruts that united on the other side, where
a trail emerged. Then for a mile or two, she passed new scattered
homesteads with their windmills and wooden barns, until these dropped
behind and she drove across the empty wilderness. No rain had fallen,
the sky was getting clear and green, and a vivid crimson sunset burned
on the edge of the grass. The air was now cool, and although she was
anxious about the weather, Sadie felt more cheerful than when she had
come.

She had no scruples about what she had done. For one thing, she had
kept to the truth when she might have made her hints more damaging by
a little exaggeration. Her antagonist had struck her a treacherous
blow; he was dangerous, and must be downed. Then she smiled with grim
humor as she admitted that she had perhaps done enough for a time.
Wilkinson's creditors were on his track; it would be amusing to watch
them play her game.

It was dark when she reached the farm and found Charnock waiting on
the veranda. He looked dull but not embarrassed, and there was nothing
to indicate that he had been disturbed by her absence. Sadie did not
tell him where she had been and did not talk much. She had found out
that it was better not to make things too easy for Bob.

"I suppose you have a headache; you deserve it," she said. "I'm tired
and don't want to hear your excuses now."

"I really haven't begun to make excuses," Charnock answered.

"Then don't begin. It's late, and you have got to start for the bluff
at sun-up and haul those fence-posts home. The job has been hanging on
too long and must be finished to-morrow."

"It will be finished before dinner," Charnock replied. "As a matter of
fact, I brought in most of the posts to-day."

Sadie's look softened, but she did not mean to be gracious yet.

"I reckoned you'd be loafing round the house and finding fault," she
said and left him.

When she had gone Charnock smiled. Sadie would, no doubt, come round
to-morrow, and it was lucky she knew nothing about the cheque he had
given Wilkinson; but he wondered where she had been. Now he came to
think of it, Wilkinson had said nothing abut the cheque when they met
at the railroad settlement; but after all there was perhaps no reason
he should do so.

About seven o'clock one evening a fortnight later, Festing threw down
the cant-pole he had been using to move a big birch log, and lighting
his pipe, stopped and looked about. A shallow creek flowed through a
ravine at the edge of the tall wheat, and below the spot where he
stood its channel was spanned by the stringers of an unfinished
bridge. The creek had shrunk to a thread of water, but Festing, who
had been wading about its bed, was wet and splashed with mire.
Moreover he had torn his threadbare overalls and his hot face was
smeared where he had rubbed off the mosquitoes with dirty hands.

The evening was hot, he felt tired and moody, and his depression was
not relieved when he glanced at the wheat. There was no wind now, but
the breeze had been fresh, and the ears of grain that were beginning
to emerge from their sheaths dropped in a sickly manner. The stalks
had a ragged look and fine sand lay among the roots. The crop was
damaged, particularly along its exposed edge, although it might
recover if there was rain. Festing, studying the sky, saw no hope of
this. The soft blue to the east and the luminous green it melted into,
with the harsh red glare of the sinking sun, threatened dry and
boisterous weather. Unless a change came soon, the wheat would be
spoiled.

It was obvious that he had sown too large a crop, and the work this
implied had overtaxed his strength. He had felt the strain for some
time, and now things were going against him it got worse. Hope might
have braced him, but the thought of failure was depressing. For all
that, there were economies he must practise at the cost of extra
labor, and bridging the creek would lessen the cost of transport and
enable him to sell one of his teams. He was late for supper, but
wanted to finish part of the work before he went home.

By and by he saw Helen stop at the edge of the ravine. Her face was
hot, as if she had been walking fast, and she looked vexed.

"You have kept us waiting half an hour and don't seem ready yet," she
said.

"I'm not ready," Festing replied, and stopped abruptly. "Very sorry; I
forgot all about it," he resumed.

Helen made a gesture of annoyance. She had invited some of their
neighbors to supper and had spent the day preparing the feast. Things,
however, had gone wrong; the stove had got too hot and spoiled her
choicest dishes.

"You forgot!" she exclaimed. "It really isn't often I trouble you with
guests."

"That's lucky, because I haven't much time for entertaining people.
I'm overworked just now."

Helen hesitated because she was afraid she might say too much. She
admired his persevering industry, but had begun to feel that he was
slipping away from her and devoting himself to his farm. Sometimes she
indulged an angry jealousy, and then tried to persuade herself it was
illogical.

"Then why give yourself another task by building the bridge?" she
asked.

"I tried to explain that. I can get the thing done with less trouble
when the creek is nearly dry, and if we had to use the ford when
hauling out the grain, it would mean starting with a light load or
keeping a team of horses there. When I've built the bridge and graded
back the road we can take the full number of bags across, and that
makes for economy. It looks as if I'll have to be severely economical
soon."

Helen colored. She thought he did not mean to vex her, but he had
ventured on dangerous ground.

"You know that what is mine is yours," she said.

"In a way, it is, but I put all my capital into the stock and crop,
and must try to get it back. I can't ask my wife for money if I loaf
about and lose my own."

"You don't loaf," Helen rejoined. "But if you lose your crop from
causes you can't prevent happening, there is no reason you shouldn't
accept my help."

"I know you're generous and would give me all you had but--"

Helen shook her head. "You don't see the matter in the right way yet;
but we'll let it go. Get your jacket and come back at once."

"Must I come?" Festing asked irresolutely.

"Isn't it obvious?"

"I don't think so. Can't you tell the folks I'd forgotten and started
something I must finish?"

"I can't," said Helen sharply. "It hurts to know you had forgotten.
The farm is lonely and I haven't many friends; but I can't tell
outsiders how little that matters to you."

"I'm sorry," Festing answered with some embarrassment. "Still I think
you're exaggerating; nobody would look at it like that. Our neighbors
know one has to stay with one's work."

"Bob finds time to go about with his wife."

"He does," said Festing dryly. "Driving about is easier than farming,
and Bob has no scruples about living on his wife's money. I expect
that was his object when he married her. There's another thing I
forgot; he's coming to-night."

"He and Sadie have been at the house some time."

Festing made a sign of resignation. "I could stand the others better.
They know what we may have to face, but nothing bothers Bob, and it's
hard to play up to his confounded cheerfulness when you're not in the
mood. Then I suppose I've got to put on different clothes?"

Helen forced a smile. When they first came to the homestead, Stephen
had changed his clothes for supper and afterwards devoted himself to
her amusement, sometimes playing chess, and sometimes listening while
she sang. Then, as the days got longer, he had gradually grown
careless, contenting himself with changing his jacket and half an
hour's talk, until at length he sat down to the meal in dusty overalls
and hurried off afterwards. Helen had tried to make excuses for him,
but felt hurt all the same. Stephen was getting slovenly and
neglecting her.

"It's plain that you must take off those muddy overalls," she said.

They went back, and supper was delayed while Festing changed. He
forced himself to be polite when he joined his guests, but it cost him
something, and the dishes Helen had carefully prepared were spoiled.
On the whole, he felt grateful to Sadie and Bob, who kept the others
in good-humor and relieved him from the necessity of leading the talk;
but he was glad when they left.

When the rigs melted into the shadowy plain he stood on the veranda
and yawned.

"Well," he remarked, "that's over, and it will be some time before
they need come back. I hope none of them will think they have to ask
us out in return."

"You gave them a very plain hint," Helen said bitterly.

Festing did not answer and went into the house. He felt he had not
been tactful, but he was very tired, and if he ventured an explanation
might make things worse. Besides, he must get up at four o'clock next
morning.

Helen sat still for some time, looking out on the prairie. She was
beginning to feel daunted by its loneliness. Except for Sadie
Charnock, visitors seldom came to the farm. Her neighbors lived at
some distance, but she had hoped to plan a round of small reunions
that would break the monotony. Stephen, however, had shown her that
she could expect no help from him, and had actually forgotten her
first party. She felt wounded; it was hard to think that so long as he
had work to do she must resign herself to being left alone.



CHAPTER XVII

FESTING USES FORCE

A week or so after the supper party Festing started for the settlement
with some pieces of a binder in his wagon. He had bought the machine
second-hand, and meant to replace certain worn parts before harvest
began, although he doubted if this was worth while. The drought was
ripening the grain prematurely and some of it was spoiled, but he must
try to save as much as possible. Reaching the edge of the wheat, he
stopped the team irresolutely, half tempted to turn back, because it
seemed unlikely that the old binder need be used.

The wind had fallen; the mosquitoes were about and bit his face and
neck. Everything was strangely quiet, it was very hot, and masses of
leaden cloud darkened the horizon. Festing, however, had given up
hoping for rain, which would not make much difference if it came now.

The front of the wide belt of grain was ragged and bitten into hollows
by the driving sand. The torn stalks drooped and slanted away from the
wind, while others that had fallen lay about their roots. Farther in,
the damage was less, but the ears were half-filled and shriveled. The
field was parti-colored, for the dull, dark green had changed to a
dingy, sapless hue, and the riper patches had a sickly yellow tinge
instead of a coppery gleam.

Festing's face hardened. If he thrashed out half the number of bushels
he had expected, he would be lucky. He had staked all he had on the
chances of the weather and had lost. It was his first failure and came
as a rude shock to his self-confidence. He felt shaken and disgusted
with himself, for it looked as if he had been a rash fool. Still, if
rain came now, he might save enough to obviate the necessity of using
Helen's money. She would give him all he asked for, but this was a
matter about which he felt strongly, and she knew his point of view.

Driving on, he met the mail-carrier, who gave him a letter. It was
from Kerr, his former chief on the railroad, who had been moved to a
new section on the Pacific Slope. He told Festing about certain
difficulties they had encountered, and the latter felt a curious
interest. Indeed, he looked back with a touch of regret to the
strenuous days he had spent at the construction camps. The work was
hard, but one was provided with the material required and efficient
tools. Then there was freedom from the responsibility he felt now; one
did one's best and the company took the risk.

Festing's interest deepened when, at the end of the letter, Kerr told
him about a contract for which nobody seemed anxious to tender. It was
a difficult undertaking, but Kerr thought a bold, resourceful man
could carry it out with profit. He did not know if it would appeal to
Festing, although prairie farmers sometimes went to work with their
teams on a new track when their harvest was poor. Kerr ended with the
hope that this was not the case with Festing.

The latter sat still for a few minutes with his brows knit and then
started his team. It was too late to think of railroad contracts; he
had chosen his line and must stick to it, but his look was irresolute
as he drove on.

Some time after Festing reached the settlement, Wilkinson and three or
four others sat, smoking, in the poolroom. This supplied a useful hint
about their character, because supper would not be ready for an hour
or two, and industrious people were busily occupied. The room was hot,
the floor and green tables were sprinkled with poisoned flies, and the
wooden chairs were uncomfortably hard, but it was cooler than the
sidewalk, and the men lounged with their feet on the empty stove.

"Does anybody feel like another game?" one asked.

"No," said the man he looked at. "I've lost three dollars, and that's
all I can spare. Can't spare it, for that matter, but it's gone. I'm
going broke if this weather lasts.

"That's nothing," remarked another. "Some of us have been broke since
we came here; you get used to it. There'll be other folks in a tight
place if the rain doesn't come; but it won't make much difference to
you, Wilkinson. I guess the storekeepers have you fixed now."

Wilkinson frowned. He knew the remark was prompted by malice because
he had won the money his companion had lost. The fellow, however, had
not exaggerated. His creditors had recently stopped supplies and made
demands with which he was unable to comply, and since they were
obviously consulting each other, it looked as if he would be sold up
and forced to leave the neighborhood. Somebody had put them on his
track and he suspected Mrs. Charnock. He meant to punish her if he
could.

"I've certainly got to sell off a bunch of young horses sooner than I
meant; I expect you've seen the notices," he said, and added with a
sneer: "They'd have made a much better price if I could have kept them
until the spring, and now's your chance if you have any dollars to
invest. It's a sure snap for anybody who'll help me hold them over."

One of the men laughed ironically and another asked: "Why don't you
try Charnock? He used to be a partner of yours, and he's more money
than the rest of us."

Wilkinson saw his opportunity. His companions were loafing gossips,
and those who were married would tell their wives. In a very short
time the rumor he meant to start would travel about the neighborhood,
and there was enough truth in it to make it dangerous and hard to
deny.

"Charnock's deadbeat. He's as poor as you."

"His wife has plenty dollars, anyhow."

"That's so, but she's not going to give him any more," Wilkinson
rejoined. "He married Sadie for her money, and now he hasn't sense
enough to stick to her."

It was obvious that he had secured the others' attention, for they
waited eagerly, with their eyes fixed on him. The room was quiet, but
a rig came up the street and the rattle of wheels and harness drowned
the sound of steps outside. Nobody noticed that the door, which was
not quite shut, opened wider.

"What do you mean by that?" one asked.

"Bob's running after Mrs. Festing. Old sweetheart of his in England,
though he turned her down to marry Sadie. Now she's got hold of him
again--tired of Festing or has a pick on Mrs. Charnock, perhaps.
Anyhow, Bob's round the Festing place all the time, and I don't know
that I blame him much. Mrs. Festing's a looker and Sadie's a difficult
woman to live with."

"But what has Festing got to say?"

Wilkinson laughed. "Festing's a bit of a sucker and doesn't know. He's
scared about the big crop he has sown and thinks of nothing but the
weather and his farm, while Bob goes over when he's off at work. But I
guess there's trouble coming soon."

"It's coming now," said somebody, and Wilkinson's jaw fell slack, and
he sat with his mouth open as Festing strode into the room.

The latter had come to look for a smith, and hearing Wilkinson's voice
as he went up the steps, waited for a moment or two. He was too late,
in one sense, because the harm had been done, but he could not steal
away. Although the course he meant to take was not very logical,
judgment would be given against him if he did nothing. His sunburned
face was rather white and he stood very stiff, with muscles braced,
looking down at Wilkinson.

"Get up, you slanderous brute, and tell them it's a lie," he said.

"I'll be shot if I will!" said Wilkinson, who got on his feet
reluctantly. "You know it's true."

Then he flung up his arm, a second too late, for Festing struck him a
smashing blow and he staggered, with the blood running down his face.

He recovered in a moment, and seizing a billiard cue brought the thick
end down on Festing's head. Festing swayed, half-dazed, but grasped
the cue, and they struggled for its possession, until it broke in the
middle, and Wilkinson flung his end in the other's face. After this,
for a minute or two, the fight was close and confused, and both made
the most of any advantage that offered.

In Western Canada, personal combat is not hampered by rules. The main
thing is to disable one's antagonist as quickly as possible, and
Festing knew that Wilkinson would not be scrupulous. He must not be
beaten, particularly since his defeat would, to some extent, confirm
the slander.

He grappled with Wilkinson as a precaution, because another cue stood
near, and with a tense effort threw him against the empty stove. The
shock was heavy enough to bring the stove-pipe down, and a cloud of
soot fell upon the struggling men, while the pipe rolled noisily
across the floor. Wilkinson, however, stuck to him, and they reeled up
and down between the wall and table, getting an arm loose now and then
to strike a blow, and scattering the chairs. Nobody interfered or
cleared the ground, and by and by Wilkinson caught his foot and fell
down, bringing Festing with him. After this, they fought upon the
floor, rolling over among the chairs, until their grip got slack. Both
got up, breathing hard, and Festing gasped:

"Tell them you're a liar. It's the last chance you'll get!"

Wilkinson did not answer, but struck him before he could guard, and
the fight went on again amidst a cloud of dust that rose from the
dirty boards. Then it ended suddenly, for Festing got his left arm
free as he forced his antagonist towards the open door. He struck with
savage fury, and Wilkinson, reeling backwards across the narrow
veranda, plunged down the stairs and fell into the street. He did not
get up, and Festing leaned against the wall and wiped his bleeding
face.

"Pick up the hog and take him to the hotel," he said, and tried to
fill his pipe with shaking hands while the rest went out.

Other people joined them in the street, and Festing, stealing away as
a crowd began to gather, went to the implement store, where he washed
his face and brushed his damaged clothes. There was a cut on his
forehead and his jacket was badly torn, while some of the soot that
had fallen upon it would not come off. After a rest and a smoke,
however, he did not feel much worse, and the dealer, going to the
hotel, brought back news that Wilkinson had driven home.

"I guess you have done all you could and can let the fellow go," he
said. "My notion is he won't be in the neighborhood long."

An hour later, Festing drove out of the settlement, with a strip of
sticking plaster on his forehead and his jacket clumsily mended. The
sky was now a curious leaden color, and the wild barley shone a livid
white against the dark riband of the trail; the air was very hot and
there was not a breath of wind. Festing noted that the horses were
nervous and trotted fast, although they had made a long journey. Now
and then they threw up their heads and snorted, and swerved violently
when a gopher ran across the trail or a prairie-hen got up. The flies
seemed to have gone, but the mosquitoes were out in clouds, and the
hand with which he slapped his face and neck was soon smeared with
small red stains. He could not hold the whip; but it was not needed,
because the team rather required to be checked than urged.

When the trail permitted he let them go, and swung, lost in gloomy
thoughts, with the jolting of the rig. The damaging part of
Wilkinson's statement was false, but since part was true the tale
would spread and some would believe the worst. It was impossible to
doubt Helen, but he was angry with her. She had let her ridiculous
notion of reforming Bob carry her away. Festing did not think Bob
could be reformed, but it was Sadie's business, not Helen's. Besides,
he had objected to her encouraging the fellow to hang about the
homestead, and she had disregarded his warnings. Now, the thing must
be stopped, and it would be horribly disagreeable to tell her why. She
had been obstinate and rash, but after all she meant well and would be
badly hurt. He began to feel sorry for her, and his angry thought's
centered on Charnock.

It was, of course, ridiculous to imagine that Bob was seriously trying
to make love to Helen; he knew her character too well. All the same,
the fellow might amuse himself by mild indulgence in romantic
sentiment. He was a fool and a slacker, and had now humiliated Helen
for the second time. The longer Festing thought about it, the angrier
he got, and when he roused himself as the horses plunged down the side
of a ravine he was surprised to note how far he had gone. He had just
time to tighten the reins and guide the team across the open log
bridge at the bottom, and as they plodded up the other side saw that
he had better get home as soon as possible.

The drooping leaves of the birches in the hollow flittered ominously,
and when he reached the summit a bluff that stood out from the plain
two or three miles off suddenly vanished. It looked as if a curtain
had been drawn across the grass. The horses set off at a fast trot,
and the rig jolted furiously among the ruts. It would not be dark for
an hour, but the gray obscurity that had hidden the bluff was getting
near. At its edge and about a mile off a pond shone with a strange
sickly gleam.

Then a dazzling flash fell from the cloud bank overhead and touched
the grass. A stunning crash of thunder rolled across the sky, and the
team plunged into a frantic gallop. Festing braced himself in a vain
attempt to hold them, for the trail was half covered with tall grass
and broken by badger holes. He was soon breathless and dazzled, for
the lightning fell in forked streaks that ran along the plain, and the
trail blazed in front of the horses' feet. Thunder is common in
Canada, but it is on the high central plains that the storms attain
their greatest violence.

The team plunged on, and Festing, jolting to and fro, durst not lift
his eyes from the trail. The storm would probably not last long and
might do some good if it were followed by moderate rain. But he was
not sure that moderate rain would fall. By and by a few large drops
beat upon his hat, there was a roar in the distance, and a cool
draught touched his face. It died away, but the next puff was icy
cold, and the roar got louder. He looked up, for he knew what was
coming, but there was not a bluff in sight that would shield him from
the wind.

Turning down his hat-brim against the increasing rain, he let the
horses go. He need not try to hold them; the storm would stop them
soon. It broke upon him with a scream and a shower of sand and
withered grass. He staggered as if he had got a blow, and then leaned
forward to resist the pressure. The horses swerved, and he had trouble
to keep them on the trail, but their speed slackened and they fell
into a labored trot. For a few minutes they struggled against the
gale, and then the roar Festing had heard behind the scream drowned
the rumbling thunder. He threw up his arm to guard his face as the
terrible hail of the plains drove down the blast.

It fell in oblique lines of ragged lumps of ice, hammering upon the
wagon and bringing the horses to a stop. They began to plunge, turning
half round, while one pressed against the other, in an effort to
escape the savage buffeting. Festing let them have their way at the
risk of upsetting the rig, and presently they stopped with their backs
to the wind. He let the reins fall, and the hail beat upon his bowed
head and shoulders like a shower of stones. The horses stood limp and
trembling, as powerless as himself.

Their punishment did not last long. The hail got thinner and the lumps
smaller; the roar diminished and Festing heard it recede across the
plain. The wind was still savage, but it was falling, and the thunder
sounded farther off. There was a savage downpour of drenching rain,
and when this moderated he pulled himself together, and turning the
horses, resumed his journey. He was wet to the skin, his shoulders
were sore, and his face and hands were bruised and cut. Pieces of ice,
some as large as hazelnuts, lay about the wagon, and the wild barley
lay flat beside the trail. Not a blade of grass stood upright as far
as he could see, and the ruts in which the wheels churned were full of
melting hail and water.

It was getting dark when his homestead rose out of the plain; a
shadowy group of buildings, marked by two or three twinkling lights.
He was wet and cold, but he stopped by the wheat and nerved himself to
see what had happened to the crop. He had not had much hope, but for
all that got something of a shock. There was no standing grain; the
great field looked as if it had been mown. Bruised stalks and torn
blades lay flat in a tattered, tangled mass, splashed with sticky mud.
The rain that might have saved him had come too late and was finishing
the ruin the sand and hail had made.

Then the downpour thickened and the light died out, and he drove to
the house. He could see in the morning if any remnant of the crop
could be cut, but there would not be enough to make much difference.
Hope had gone, and his face was stern when he called the hired man and
got down stiffly from the dripping rig.



CHAPTER XVIII

HELEN MAKES A MISTAKE

When Festing had changed his clothes he entered the small sitting-room
with an effort at cheerfulness. The room was unusually comfortable for
a prairie homestead. The floor was stained, rugs were spread on the
polished boards, and Helen had drawn the curtains, which harmonized in
color with the big easy chairs. There were books in well-made cases,
and two or three good pictures on the painted walls, while a tall
brass lamp with a deep shade threw down a soft light. Helen had put a
meal on the table, and Festing sat down with a feeling that was half
uneasiness and half content.

While he ate he glanced at his wife. She wore a pretty and rather
fashionable dress that she kept for evenings. She looked fresh and
vigorous, although the summer had been hot and she worked hard; the
numerous petty difficulties she had to contend with had left no mark.
Her courage had always been evident, but she had shown a resolution
that Festing had not quite expected. He admired it, in a way, but it
was sometimes awkward when they took a different point of view.

There was a charm in coming back to a home like this when he was tired
and disappointed, but its taste and comfort were now disturbing. For
one thing, he had perhaps not made the best use of his privileges,
and, for another, Helen might have to be satisfied with a simpler mode
of life. It hurt him to think of this, because he had hoped to
beautify the house still further, so that she should miss nothing she
had been used to in the Old Country. It was obvious that she
understood something of his misfortune, for her look was sympathetic;
but she let him finish his supper before she began to talk.

"Your jacket is badly torn, Stephen," she remarked when he lighted his
pipe. "And how did you cut your face?"

"The hail was pretty fierce."

"It was terrible. We never had storms like that in England. I was
frightened when I thought of your being out on the prairie. But I
don't mean the small bruises. How did you cut your forehead?"

"Oh, that!" said Festing awkwardly. "I did it when I fell over a stove
at the settlement. The pipe came down and I imagine the edge struck
me."

"You would have known if it hit you nor not."

"Well, it might have been the top of the stove. The molding was
sharp."

"But how did you fall against the stove?" Helen persisted.

Festing did not want to tell her about the fight with Wilkinson. He
had resolved to say nothing about the matter until morning.

"I tripped. There was a chair in the way and it caught my foot."

Helen did not look altogether satisfied, but let the matter go.

"Has the hail done much damage to the wheat?"

"Yes," said Festing, with grim quietness. "I imagine it has done all
the damage that was possible. So far as I could see, the crop's wiped
out."

They were sitting near together, and Helen, leaning forward, put her
hand on his arm with a gesture of sympathy.

"Poor Stephen! I'm dreadfully sorry. It must have been a blow."

Festing's hard look softened. "It was. When I stopped beside the wreck
I felt knocked out, but getting home braced me up. I begin to feel I
might have had a worse misfortune and mustn't exaggerate the
importance of the loss."

Helen was silent for a few minutes, but she was sensible of a certain
relief. She was sorry for her husband, but there was some
compensation, since it looked as if a ray of light had dawned on him.
Although she had struggled against the feeling, she was jealous of the
farm that had kept him away from her.

"I think you sowed too large a crop, and you could not have gone on
working as you have done," she said. "It would have worn you out."

Festing put down his pipe and looked at her with surprise. "You don't
seem to understand that I'll have to work harder than before."

"I don't understand," said Helen, taking away her hand. "To begin
with, it's impossible; then I'd hoped the loss of money, serious as it
is, would have made you cautious and, in a sense, more content."

"You hoped the loss of the money--!" Festing exclaimed. "Did you ever
know losing money make anybody content? The thing's absurd!"

Helen made a gesture of protest. "Stephen, dear, try to see what I
mean. You have been doing too much, running too big risks, and fixing
all your thought upon the farm. It has made you irritable and
impatient, and the strain is telling on your health. This could not go
on long, and although I'm truly sorry the wheat is spoiled, it's some
relief to know you will be forced to be less ambitious. Besides, it's
foolish to be disturbed. Neither of us is greedy, and we have enough.
In fact, we have much that I hardly think you value as you ought."

"I haven't enough; that's the trouble."

"Oh," said Helen, "you know that all I have belongs to both."

"It doesn't," Festing answered in a stubborn tone. "You don't seem to
realize yet that I can't change my views about this matter. I've lost
most of my money, but that's no reason I should lose my wife's.
Besides, since you bought the farm, you haven't a large sum left." He
paused and indicated the handsome rugs and furniture. "Then it costs a
good deal to live up to this kind of thing."

"We can change that; I can manage with less help and be more
economical. There is much that we can go without. I wouldn't mind at
all, Stephen, if it would help you to take things easily."

Festing colored. "No. I can't let you suffer for my rashness. It's my
business to give you all the comforts you need."

"Ah," said Helen, "I like you to think of me. But something's due to
pride. I wonder how much?"

"I don't know," said Festing, rather wearily. "I'm what I am and
haven't much time to improve myself. For that matter, I'll have less
time now."

"Then what do you mean to do?"

"Make the most of what I have left. I'd hoped to give you a change
this winter--take you to Montreal and go skating and tobogganing, but
that's done with. I believe I have money enough to begin again in a
small way and work up. It may take me two or three years to get back
to where I was, but somehow I will get back."

"Then you are going on as before; concentrating all your mind upon the
farm, taking no rest, denying yourself every pleasure you might have
had?"

"I'm afraid that's the only way. It's a pretty grim outlook, but I
think I can stand the strain."

"Then I suppose I must try," said Helen, very quietly.

She was silent afterwards, and Festing lit his pipe. Something stood
between them, and she felt that it was not less dangerous because
their motives were good. Had they differed from selfishness, agreement
might have been easier, but an estrangement that sprang from principle
was hard to overcome. She wanted to help her husband and keep him to
herself; he meant to save her hardship and carry out a task that was
properly his. But perhaps their motives were not so fine as they
looked. Suppose there was shabby jealousy on her side, and false pride
on his? Well, Stephen was tired and could not see things in the proper
light, and it was some relief when he got up and went out. Helen
picked up a book, in the hope of banishing her uneasy thoughts.

Next morning Festing came in for breakfast, feeling gloomy and
preoccupied. He had not slept much and got up early to examine the
damaged grain. It looked worse than he had thought and, for the most
part, must be burned off the ground. There were patches that might,
with difficulty, be cut, but he hardly imagined the stooks would pay
for thrashing. Moreover, he had bought and fed a number of expensive
Percheron horses, which ought to have been used for harvesting and
hauling the grain to the railroad, and had engaged men at lower wages
than usual, on the understanding that he kept them through the winter.
Now there was nothing for both to do, although their maintenance would
cost as much as before.

He read Kerr's letter again. If he had not been married, it would have
given him a chance of overcoming his difficulties. A man and a team of
horses could do all that was required on the farm in winter, and he
could have taken the others to British Columbia. Kerr would arrange
for free transport, and, if he was lucky, he might earn enough on the
railroad to cover part of his loss. But this was impossible. He could
not leave Helen.

Then there was the other matter. He had not yet told her what
Wilkinson had said, but she must be told, and Bob's visits must stop.
The trouble was that he had already vexed her by refusing her help,
and this would not make his delicate task easier. Besides, he was not
in the mood to use much tact. His nerves were raw; the shock he had
got had left him savage and physically tired. For all that, the thing
could not be put off.

He said nothing until breakfast was over, and then, asking Helen to
come with him, went on to the veranda. The sun was hot, the sky clear,
and thin steam drifted across the drenched plain. Had the storm come
without the hail a few weeks sooner, it would have saved his crop; but
now the vivifying moisture seemed to mock him. It had come too late;
the wheat had gone. Struggling with a feeling of depression, he turned
to his wife.

"There's something we must talk about; and I hope you'll be patient
with me if you get a jar."

He leaned against the balustrade, nervously fingering his pipe, and
Helen sat down opposite. She felt curious and disturbed.

"Well?" she said.

"To begin with, I'll tell you what happened at the settlement
yesterday. You must remember that the statements are Wilkinson's."

Helen's color rose, and when he stopped her face was flushed and her
eyes were very bright.

"Ah," she said in a strained voice. "But what did you do?"

Festing smiled rather grimly. "I dragged the brute about the floor and
threw him into the street. I don't know that it was a logical denial
of the slander, but it was what the others expected and I had to
indulge them."

"And that was how you cut your forehead?"

"Yes," said Festing, and for a few moments Helen tried to regulate her
thoughts.

She felt shocked and disgusted, but did not mean to let her anger
master her, because there were matters that must be carefully weighed.
Indeed, it was something of a relief to dwell upon the first. To hear
of Festing's thrashing her traducer had given her a pleasant thrill,
but all the same she vaguely disapproved. He had not taken a dignified
line and had really made things worse. It was humiliating to feel that
she had been the subject of a vulgar poolroom brawl.

"Could you not have found a better way to silence him?" she asked.

"I could not. I was afraid you wouldn't like it, but you must try to
understand that I was forced to play up to local sentiment. English
notions of what is becoming don't hold good here; you can't stop a man
like Wilkinson with a supercilious look. If I'd let the thing go, the
boys would have thought his statements true, and the tale is bad
enough to deal with."

Helen gave him a steady look, but her color was high and her face was
hard.

"But you know it isn't true!"

"Of course," said Festing, with quiet scorn. "All that the brute
insinuated is absolutely false. Bob's a fool, but he knows you, and
I'm beginning to think he's a little in love with his wife."

"Ah," said Helen, "I knew you knew. But I felt I must hear you say
so."

Festing hesitated. One difficulty had vanished, but there was another,
and he hoped Helen would see his point of view.

"For all that, in a way, there was some truth in the story; enough, in
fact, to make it dangerous, and I think you have been rash. Bob has
been here too often, and you will remember I objected to his coming."

"You did," said Helen. "You were rather disagreeable about it; but you
objected because he liked to talk and kept you from your work."

"He certainly talked. General conversation is all right in English
country houses where nobody had much to do, but casual chatterers who
insist on talking when you're busy are a disgusting nuisance in
Canada. However, I don't think that's worth arguing about."

"It is not," said Helen, with a smile. "Besides, I know your opinions
about that point. What do you wish me to do?"

"Warn Sadie to keep Bob at home. There's no reason she shouldn't visit
you, but you can't go there."

The color returned to Helen's face and she got up. She looked stately
with her air of injured pride.

"Do you mean that I should rule my conduct to suit the ideas of the
drunken loafers at the settlement poolroom?"

"Oh!" said Festing impatiently, "try to be sensible! You have done a
foolish thing, but you needn't make it worse. The trouble is that
those loafers' opinions will be reflected all round the neighborhood.
Wilkinson won't say anything more; at least, he won't when I'm about;
but I can't keep on throwing out people who agree with him."

"That is plain. If you were not so angry, the remark would be
humorous."

"I'm not angry," Festing rejoined.

"Well, I am," said Helen. "And I think I have some grounds. Must I let
those tipsy gossips dictate when I may see my friends?"

"Does it matter if you see them or not? You don't really care for
Bob."

"No," said Helen, trying to be calm. "In a way, I don't care for Bob;
that is, I'm glad I didn't marry him. But I don't see why I should
stop him coming here when Sadie wants to bring him. She's my friend,
and she knows it does Bob good. I'm too angry to flatter you, Stephen,
but you have some influence--"

Festing laughed. "All the influence I've got won't go far with Bob. I
don't say the fellow's vicious, but he's an extravagant slacker and a
fool, which is perhaps as bad. Anyhow, if he can be reformed at all,
it's Sadie's business, and I've no doubt she finds it an arduous job.
There's no use in an outsider meddling, and your anxiety for his
improvement might be misunderstood. In fact, it has been seriously
misunderstood."

"You seem to have made up your mind about the matter," Helen remarked
with a curious look.

"I have. Perhaps the easiest way would be for you to give Sadie a
hint."

"Suppose I refuse?"

"Then I shall have to talk to Bob. After all, that might be better."

Helen flushed, but her color faded and her face got white. "You are
willing to let this scurrilous gossip influence you as far as that? Do
you mean to forbid my friends coming to see me?"

"I won't have Bob hanging round my house. The wastrel has done you
harm enough."

"You forget something," Helen rejoined in a strained, cold voice. "The
house is mine."

She knew her mistake as she saw the change in Festing's look, and
weakly turned her head. When she looked back it was too late. His
hands were clenched and his gaze was fixed.

"I--I didn't quite mean that," she faltered.

"Anyhow, it's true," said Festing quietly. "The farm is yours as well,
and I admit you have no grounds for being satisfied with the way I've
managed your property. You won't have much trouble in getting a better
steward."

Helen glanced at him, with a hint of fear. "But I don't want anybody
else. Do you mean to give up the farm?"

"Yes. As soon as I can arrange things for you I'm going to British
Columbia for a time. I've been offered a railroad contract, and as
it's a job I know something about, I mayn't fail at that."

"And you will leave me alone to face this slander?"

"The remedy's in your hands. I'm powerless if you won't use it. I
can't forbid Bob coming here; you can."

Helen hesitated. It was unfortunate that both were in an abnormal
mood. They had borne some strain, and the shock of the disaster to the
crop had left them with jangled nerves. This clouded Helen's judgment,
but reenforced her pride. She had meant well when she tried to help
Sadie with Bob, and could not give way to her husband's unreasonable
prejudice. This was a matter of principle. She could help Bob and must
not be daunted by vulgar gossip.

"No," she said; "I can't break my promise to Sadie for the reasons you
give. You must do what you think best."

Festing made a sign of acquiescence and went down the steps, while
Helen bit her lip. She wanted to call him back, but somehow could not.
It might be easier if he would look round, but he went on across the
grass and his step was resolute, although his head was bent. Then she
got up, and going to her room, sat down trembling. She had let her
best chance go; Stephen's resolve would stiffen, for when he had made
a choice he was hard to move. Besides, he had wounded her deeply. He
did not seem to understand that if he went away he would give people
ground for thinking the slander true. He ought to have seen this if he
had thought about her. Perhaps he had seen it and refused to let it
influence him. Well, if he wanted a reconciliation, he must make the
first offer.

In the meantime, Festing went to look for the foreman, whom he could
trust. After some talk, the man agreed to manage the farm for the
winter on the terms Festing indicated. Then the latter asked if the
other men would go with him to the Pacific Slope, and finding them
willing, went back to his office and carefully studied his accounts.
He was glad to think that Helen had sufficient help and that the staid
Scottish housekeeper would take care of her. By and by he wrote a note
and then drove off to the settlement. He did not come back until next
morning, but his plans were made and he only waited a telegram from
Kerr. Three or four days later the telegram arrived.

"All fixed," it ran. "Pass for transport mailed. Come along soon as
possible."



CHAPTER XIX

SADIE SEES A WAY

Soon after Festing started for British Columbia Sadie drove over to
the farm; because she had heard about the fight in the poolroom and
suspected why he had gone. At first she found it difficult to break
down Helen's reserve, but the latter could not resist her frank
sympathy, and softening by degrees, allowed herself to be led into
confidential talk. Sadie waited until she thought she understood the
matter, and then remarked:

"So you stuck to your promise that you'd help me with Bob, although
you saw what it would cost? Well, I wouldn't be surprised if you hated
us."

"It wasn't altogether the promise," Helen replied. "We were both
highly strung, and I thought Stephen hard and prejudiced; it seemed
ridiculous that he should care what the loafers said. But I don't hate
you. The fault was really mine, and I want a friend."

"Well," said Sadie, "I feel I've got to help put this trouble right,
if I can." She paused and asked with some hesitation: "Will Steve be
away long?"

"I don't know," Helen answered dejectedly. "He hinted that he might
not come until spring; I think he means to stop until he has earned
enough to make him independent. That's partly my fault--I said
something rash. If I hadn't had more money than him, it wouldn't have
happened."

Sadie smiled. "My having more money won't make trouble between me and
Bob; he doesn't mind how much I've got. But I suppose you want Steve
back?"

"Of course! It's all I want, but the matter is not as simple as it
looks. I don't think he will come back as long as he's poor, and if he
does, he won't use my capital, and things will be as before. If he
earns some money, I should feel hurt because he was obstinate and
wouldn't let me help. That's why I don't know what to do. I wish I'd
never had the money!"

Sadie thought Helen had some ground she had not mentioned yet for her
distress. Moreover, it looked as if she still felt she had a grievance
against Festing, and their clashing ideas about the money did not
altogether account for this.

"I guess you're keeping something back."

Helen's reserve had broken down. She was half ashamed because she had
lost it, but she felt the need of sympathy, and Sadie could be
trusted.

"He didn't see, or didn't mind, that his going away would bear out the
wicked story!" she exclaimed with sparkling eyes. "I feel that was the
worst."

"I don't know that it looks quite as bad as you think. It's a common
thing for a farmer who has lost his crop to go off and work on a new
railroad, particularly if he has teams the construction boss can use.
Anyhow, I guess the thing will come right, and I'll help if I can. But
I want to see my way before I move."

Helen did not answer, and soon afterwards Sadie left the homestead.
She said nothing to Charnock about her visit, but started for the
settlement next morning and informed herself about what had happened
at the poolroom and what people thought. Then she drove home, and
getting back at dusk, sat down opposite Charnock, who lounged in a
basket chair with a pipe in his mouth. Her eyes twinkled with rather
grim humor.

"You don't look as if anything bothered you," she said.

"It's possible," Charnock agreed. "I suppose I'm lucky because I have
nothing much to bother about."

"You wouldn't bother about it, anyhow. You leave that kind of thing to
me."

Charnock gave her a quick glance. She was not angry, which was
something of a relief, because Sadie was difficult when she let
herself go. Besides, he was not conscious of having done anything to
vex her since he gave Wilkinson the cheque. But she looked resolute.

"I've a good excuse," he answered. "I've got a remarkably capable
wife."

"We'll cut out the compliments. I don't think you have seen any of the
boys from the settlement since Festing left."

Charnock said he had not done so, and she gave him a thoughtful look.

"I suppose you can't remember when you last did something useful;
something that would help somebody else?"

"It's a painful confession, but I can't remember. Still I've some
experience of being helped along a way I didn't want to go, which
leads me to believe it's often kinder to leave folks alone."

"Anyhow, you have done some harm."

"I'm afraid that's true. I don't know that I meant to do much harm,
but it's generally easier than doing good. For example, I've given you
some trouble; but at the moment I can't think of a new offense."

"You can quit joking and put down that newspaper. It looks as if you
didn't know why Festing left?"

Charnock said he could not guess, and got up abruptly when Sadie told
him. He kicked the newspaper out of his way and crossed the floor with
angry strides. His face was red when he stopped in front of his wife.

"You don't believe the lying tale!"

"No," said Sadie, calmly. "If I had believed it, I wouldn't have
talked to you like this."

"Thank you! Now we have cleared the ground, I'm certainly going to do
something. I'll begin by driving over to Wilkinson's to-morrow, and
I'll take a whip."

"Festing 'tended to that matter before he left, and making another
circus won't help. Besides, Wilkinson has got to quit. You'll see
notices about his sale soon; I fixed that up."

Charnock laughed. "You're a marvel, Sadie, but the brute deserves it.
Well, if I mustn't thrash him, what's your plan?"

"You'll go to British Columbia and bring Festing back."

"I will, by George!" said Charnock. "We owe him and Helen much, and
the job is obviously mine--by joining Festing I give Wilkinson the
lie. You're clever, and I expect you saw this. Anyhow, I'll start; but
Festing's an obstinate fellow. Suppose he won't come back?"

"He mayn't at first. If so, you'll have to wait."

Charnock turned away and walked about the floor while Sadie watched
him, pleased but curious. Bob was rather hard to move, but he was
moved now. He came back, and sitting down, looked at her thoughtfully.

"I imagine you are giving me a bigger job than you know. If Festing
has taken the railroad contract, he'll probably stop until he had
carried it out. Now I don't imagine I'd find it amusing to loaf about
and watch him work; for one thing, it's pretty cold in the ranges
after the snow comes."

"Well?" said Sadie.

Charnock leaned forward with an apologetic smile. "I'd like to take a
share in the contract and help him through; that is, of course, if he
won't come back at once. But there's a difficulty; I haven't the
cash."

"You want me to give you some?"

"Yes. I shouldn't feel much surprised if you refused. I've squandered
your money before, but this time I mean business. Can't you see that I
have, so to speak, got my chance at last?"

"I don't quite see. You have had many chances."

"I have," Charnock agreed; but there was a new note in his voice and a
look in his eyes that Sadie had not often seen. "I've been a fool, but
perhaps it doesn't follow that I'm incapable of change. However, let's
be practical. The crop is spoiled, we have no grain to haul in, and
there'll be nothing doing here while the snow is on the ground. Well,
if Festing can get some of his money back, why can't I? I've wasted
yours long enough, and now, if I can't bring him home, I'll stop with
him until we both make good."

"You mean that, Bob?"

"I do. Give me a chance to prove it."

Sadie got up, and putting her hands on his shoulders, kissed him.
"Very well. You shall have all the money you want."

Then she went back to her chair and turned her head. She had borne
with her husband's follies and fought hard for him, sometimes with
hope and sometimes in desperation, but always with unflinching
courage. Now it looked as if she had won. Victory was insecure yet,
and there was a risk that it might turn to defeat, but Sadie never
shrank from a daring venture. For a moment she could not speak; her
heart was full.

"Hallo!" said Charnock, who got up and came towards her. "Crying,
Sadie? Will you miss me as much as that?"

Sadie hastily wiped her eyes. "Yes, Bob; I'll miss you all the time.
But if you'll come back the man you are now, I'll wait as long as you
like."

"I'll try," said Charnock simply. "I'm not going to protest, but you
deserve a much better husband than you've got. If I can't come back
better fit to live with you, I won't come back at all."

"I wouldn't like that," Sadie answered, smiling uncertainly. "But I
guess I know what you mean. I'll wait, dear, because I know you are
going to make good."

Then, feeling that she had said enough, she began to make plans.
Something might be saved from the ruined crop and she had better keep
a heavy team, but Charnock could have the other horses if they were
required. She could carry on whatever work was possible after the
frost set in, and would pay off one of the hired men. Charnock
approved, and after a time Sadie leaned back in her chair.

"It's all fixed, but perhaps we mayn't need these plans," she said.
"Remember you're really going there to bring Festing home."

"That's understood. However, I don't think he'll come, and if so, it
will be Helen's money that prevents him. If he's foolish enough to
doubt her, I can put him right, which will be something."

"Yes," said Sadie, with a sigh. "Well, if he won't come, you must stop
and do the best you can."

In the meantime, Festing reached the railroad camp. It was raining
when the construction train rolled noisily through a mountain gorge,
and he stood at the door of the caboose, looking out. Three or four
hundred feet below, a green river, streaked with muddy foam, brawled
among the rocks, for the track had been dug out of a steep hillside.
Festing knew this was difficult work; one could deal with rock,
although it cost much to cut, but it was another matter to bed the
rails in treacherous gravel, and the fan-shaped mounds of shale and
soil that ran down to the water's edge showed how loose the ground was
and the abruptness of the slope. Above, the silver mist drifted about
the black firs that clung to the side of the mountain, and in the
distance there was a gleam of snow. Some of the trees had fallen, and
it was significant that, for the most part, they did not lie where
they fell. They had slipped down hill, and the channels in the ground
indicated that the shock had been enough to start a miniature
avalanche which had carried them away. The pitch was near the slant
engineers call the angle of rest, but Festing thought there was rock
not far beneath, which prevented the solidification of the
superincumbent soil. It looked as if his contract would be difficult
and he would earn his pay.

As the cars passed he saw the ballast creep about the ends of the
ties, which reached to the edge of the descent, and in places small
streams of gravel had run down, leaving hollows round the timber. The
harsh jolting indicated the consequences, but he knew that in the West
railroads are built as fast as possible and made safe afterwards. For
that matter, he had often run risks that would have daunted engineers
used to conservative English methods. In the meantime, the speed was
slackening, and by and by the harsh tolling of the locomotive bell
echoed among the pines. Tents, iron huts, and rude log shacks slipped
past; men in muddy slickers drew back against the bank, and then the
train stopped.

Festing got down into the water that flowed among the ties, and Kerr
came forward in dripping slickers.

"If you want help to get the teams out, I'll send some of the boys,"
he said. "If not, you had better come along and I'll show you your
shack. I told our cook to fix your supper, and I'll be glad to sit
down for a time out of the wet."

Festing followed him along the descending track, which presently ended
at a ledge of rock sixty or seventy feet above the river. Wire ropes
spanned the gap between the banks, and near the middle a rock islet
broke the surface of the savage flood. Here men were pouring cement
into holes among the foundations of an iron frame, while suspended
trollies clanged across the wires. On the other bank was a small flat
where shacks of log and bark stood among dripping tents. The roar of
the river filled the gorge, but its deep note was broken by the rattle
of hammers, clash of shovels, and clang of thrown-down rails.

The sounds of keen activity stirred Festing's blood. He had a touch of
constructive genius, but lack of specialized training had forced him
into the ranks of the pioneers. Others must add the artistic finish
and divide the prizes of ultimate victory; his part was to rough out
the work and clear the way. But he was satisfied with this, and
something in him thrilled as he heard in the crash of a blasting
charge man's bold challenge to the wilderness. Kerr waited with a
twinkle of understanding amusement while Festing looked about, and
then took him up the hill.

"You have come back," he remarked. "Well, I guessed you would come.
After all, this is your job; it's here you belong."

"That is so, in a sense," Festing dryly agreed. "It looks as if my job
was to get tired and wet and dirty while others got the dollars; but
it's a job with different sides. Farming's as much a part of it as
this, and has very similar disadvantages."

"There's an altruistic theory that the dollars don't count; but it's
easier to believe when you draw your wages regularly, and I've known
it break down when an engineer was offered a more lucrative post.
Anyhow, I reckon it's our business to make good, even if our pay isn't
equal to our desserts, which happens pretty often when you work on the
railroad."

"If you work on a farm, you often don't get paid at all."

Kerr laughed and indicated the pines that rolled up the hill in somber
spires.

"Well, there's your raw material, and you won't have much trouble to
bring the logs down, though you may find stopping them from plunging
into the river a harder thing. However, you have some notion of what
you're up against, and I'll show you the plans and specifications when
we get out of the rain."

He stopped in front of a small log shack, and opening the door,
beckoned Festing in. There was an earth floor, and a bunk, filled with
swamp-hay, was fixed to the wall; two or three camp-chairs stood
about, and a fire of scented cedar logs burned on the clay hearth. A
Chinaman, dressed in very clean blue clothes, was putting a meal on
the table. Festing hung up his wet slickers and sat down with a vague
sense of satisfaction. It was plain that he must go without many
comforts he had enjoyed at the farm, but he felt strangely at home.

Kerr took supper with him, and afterwards threw some papers on the
table and lighted his pipe. Half an hour later Festing looked up.

"I imagine I've got the hang of things, and I'll make a start
to-morrow. Your way of underpinning the track is pretty good, but I
don't like that plan. You can't hold up the road long with lumber; the
work won't stand."

"I don't know if your objection springs from artistic delight in a
good job or British caution. Anyhow, you ought to know that in this
country we don't want work to stand; our aim is to get it finished. If
the track holds up until we can start the freight traffic running,
it's as much as we expect. We'll improve it afterwards as the dollars
come in."

"A freight train in a Canadian river isn't a very uncommon object,"
Festing rejoined. "However, it's my business to cut the logs and do
the underpinning as well as I can. On the whole, and barring
accidents, I see some profit on the job. I'm grateful to you for
putting it in my way."

"Your thanks are really due to somebody else. The head contractor is
not allowed to sub-let work without our approval, and although I
recommended your being given a chance, the decision rested with
another man."

"Who's that?"

"He'll probably look you up to-night," Kerr replied with a twinkle.
"They sent him from headquarters to see how we're getting on. But I'll
leave you the plans. We're working nights with the blast-lamps, and
I've got to be about when the new shift makes a start."

He went away and Festing studied the drawings. He had undertaken to
cut and dress to size the heavy logs required for the lower posts of
trestles and foundation piles. So far, he did not apprehend much
difficulty, but he would run some risk over the underpinning of part
of the track. In order to make a secure and permanent road-bed, it
would have been necessary to cut back the hillside for some distance
and then distribute the spoil about the slope below, but the engineers
had chosen a quicker and cheaper plan. Heavy timbers would be driven
into the face of the hill to make a foundation for the track, which
would be partly dug out of, and partly built on to, the declivity.
Where the main piles reached the rock the plan would be safe, but
where they were bedded in gravel there was danger of their giving way
under a heavy load. Festing knew he must share the risk of this
happening with the head contractor.

By and by somebody knocked at the door, and he got up abruptly as a
man came in.

"Dalton!" he exclaimed.

The other smiled and threw off his wet slickers. It was getting dark,
but the firelight touched his face and Festing studied him with
surprise. The lad, whom he had not seen for some years, had grown into
a man, and had moreover a look of quiet authority. He had made rapid
progress if he had, as Kerr had stated, been sent to report upon the
latter's work.

"You don't seem to have expected me, though, to some extent, I'm
responsible for your being here," he said. "However, I'm remarkably
glad we have met again."

Festing, awkwardly conscious that his welcome was somewhat cold,
indicated a chair, and sitting down opposite began to fill his pipe.
Dalton sometimes wrote to Helen, but had not mentioned his being sent
to British Columbia.

"Well," he said, "I was glad to hear you had got a move up once or
twice, but it looks as if you had gone farther than I thought."

"I had the advantage of a proper training, and the reputation of the
engineer who gave it me counted for something, although I might never
have got my chance in this country but for you. Now I'm happy if I've
been able to show my gratitude. When Kerr brought your name forward I
told him to see you got the contract."

"You did more than you knew," said Festing. "It looks as if you hadn't
heard from Helen."

"Not for a time; I hope she's well. I'd thought about coming West to
see you, but couldn't get away, and she talked about your going to
Montreal this winter."

"That's off, of course. It's plain you don't know that Helen and I
have quarreled."

Dalton looked up sharply, but was silent for a moment or two.

"This is a nasty knock," he said. "I don't know if my relation to you
justifies my venturing on dangerous ground, but do you feel at liberty
to tell me what you quarreled about?"

Festing decided that Charnock's part in the matter must be kept dark.
It was unthinkable that Dalton should imagine he suspected his wife.

"To put it roughly, we differed about what you might call a principle,
although Helen's money had something to do with the thing. You see, I
lost my crop and she was hurt because I wouldn't use her capital."

"I don't see altogether," Dalton rejoined. "In fact, your objection
seems unusual."

He pondered for a minute or two, and Festing marked the change in him.
Dalton had a reserve and thoughtfulness he had not expected. He had
grown very like Helen.

"A quarrel about a principle is apt to be dangerous," he resumed.
"Although you are probably both wrong, you can persuade yourselves you
are right. Then while I was glad to hear about your wedding, I'll
admit that I saw some difficulties. Helen has a strong will and is
sometimes rather exacting, while you're an obstinate fellow and a
little too practical. I must wait until I know more than I do now, but
might be of some use as a peacemaker. Isn't it possible to compromise?
Can't you meet half way?"

"Not in the meantime. I can't go home until I'm able to run the farm
without your sister's help. There's some risk of her despising me if I
did go."

"You may be right; I can't judge," Dalton thoughtfully agreed. "Now I
could, of course, find an excuse for getting you dismissed, but I know
you both too well to imagine that plan would work. You would go
somewhere else, while though Helen is generous there's a hard streak
in her. I really think she'd like you better afterwards if you carried
your intentions out."

He paused and smiled. "She got the money you object to in a very
curious way--by refusing to indulge the wishes of our only rich
relation. I was more compliant because his plans met my views, and he
paid for my education, but when he died we found Helen had got her
share and mine. I understand he told his lawyer that he still thought
her wrong; but if she thought she was right, she was justified in
refusing, and he admired her pluck."

"She has pluck," said Festing. "On the whole I don't think that makes
things much better for me. Anyhow, I've taken this contract and I've
got to stay with it."

"I'll help you as far as I can," said Dalton, who soon afterwards left
the shack.



CHAPTER XX

FESTING GETS TO WORK

Mist rolled among the pines and it was raining hard when Festing led
his team down the hill. He wore big rubber boots and slickers, and a
heavy log trailed behind the horses through the mud. Some distance
above the river the slope was gradual, and it was necessary to haul
the logs to the skidway he had built. They would then run down without
help; indeed, the difficulty was to stop them when they reached the
track. Festing was wet and dirty, and the sweating horses were
splashed. When he stopped to unhook the chain, three or four men came
up with cant-poles, and struggling in the churned-up mire, rolled the
log to the top of the incline.

A shallow, undulating trough scored the hillside, crossed at short
intervals by small logs, split up the middle and laid with their round
sides on top. It looked something like a switchback railway, only that
while the incline varied, all the undulations ran down hill. A few
logs rested insecurely on the top skids, and the men put the one
Festing had brought below the rest. Then they threw down their poles
and Festing looked about.

Water filled the hollows in the wavy line of skids, which vanished at
the edge of a steeper dip and reappeared below, to plunge out of sight
again. Its end was banked up with wet gravel near the track. Festing
could not see the track, but the opposite side of the river was
visible, with the island, near which two wire-ropes skimmed the
surface of the flood. A man stood on the skids about half way down and
presently waved his arm.

"Watch out below!" he shouted and signed to Festing. "All clear! You
can start her off."

Festing seized a handspike and the skids groaned as the big log began
to move. The men helped and sprang back as it gathered speed. Water
flew up, the bark tore off in crumpled flakes, and the wet timber
smoked. The other logs were smaller and easier launched, but they did
not gain the momentum of the first, which plunged furiously down hill
and flung up its thin end as it leaped over the edge of the dip.

"She's surely hitting up the pace," one of the men remarked.

"The mud is greasing the skids," said Festing, who began to run down
the incline when the man below shouted.

Two of the others followed, but stopped at the top of the last pitch,
which ended in the bank of gravel close above the track. The logs,
spread out at intervals, rushed down, rising and falling on the uneven
skids. Showers of mud and water marked their progress; there was a
crash as a smashed skid was flung into the air, and a roar when the
leading mass plowed through fallen gravel. Stones shot out and Festing
saw smoke and sparks, but the logs rushed on, and he wondered
anxiously whether the bank would stop them. So far, it had served its
purpose, but he was doubtful about it now, and hoped there was nobody
on the track beneath.

The big log reached the bank and ran half way up the short incline
before its speed slackened much. Festing held his breath as he
watched, for some gravel cars had come down the track, and he could
not tell where they were. The log was going slower, but he doubted if
it would stop.

It plowed on through the gravel, which shot up all round, and then the
end of the bank seemed to fall away. There was a shower of stones; the
butt of the log went down and its after end tilted up. Then it lurched
out of sight and there was a heavy crash below. After this Festing
heard a confused din, and imagined, though he could not see, the mass
of timber plunging down the precipitous slope, smashing rocks and
scattering gravel as it went. The noise stopped, he heard a splash,
and as the following logs leaped the broken bank, the first shot half
its length out of water, and falling again, drove down stream.

The rope at the island caught it while a trolley ran down, but the
straining wire curved and parted, and the trolley fell into the river
as the log swept on. The others followed and vanished in a turmoil of
muddy foam, and Festing went down to the track. Things might have been
worse, for nobody was hurt, although some yards of road-bed had been
carried away and a derrick he had built to put the logs on the cars
was smashed. As he studied the damage a wet and angry engineer ran up.

"You have got to stop your blamed logs jumping down like that! They've
broken a steel rope and there's a new trolley-skip in the river!"

"I'm sorry," Festing answered. "I'll try to get the skip out as soon
as possible, and you can trust me to stop more logs getting away, for
my own sake."

"There'll be trouble if you let your lumber loose on me, and I want
the skip soon," said the other. "A stranger asked for you a few
minutes ago and I sent him up the hill."

He went away and Festing's men came up.

"Pretty rough luck, boss!" one remarked. "What are we going to do
about it?"

"We'll grade up the gravel dump to begin with, and then make a new
derrick," Festing answered gloomily. "It doesn't look as if I'd get
much profit on the first week's work."

He moved off, and as he scrambled up the bank met a man coming down.
Both stopped abruptly and Festing frowned.

"What in thunder has brought you, Bob?" he asked.

"They told me you were up the hill," Charnock said, smiling. "I came
in on the last construction train."

"But why did you come?"

"I suppose you mean--Why did I come to bother you again? Well, the
explanation will take some time, and it's confoundedly muddy and
raining hard. When are you likely to be unoccupied?"

Festing tried to control his annoyance. The accident had disturbed him
and he was not pleased to see Charnock, whom he did not wish to make
free of his shack.

"What have you been doing since you arrived?" he asked.

"Sitting in the bunk-house and waiting for the rain to stop. Then I
got dinner with the boys, and afterwards went to see a rather nice
young fellow called Dalton. I told him I was a friend of yours, and he
half promised to give me a job."

"You don't seem to know who he is?" Festing remarked.

"I don't; but I thought he looked hard at me when he heard my name.
However, don't disturb yourself on my account; I'm pretty comfortable
in the bunk-house."

"Very well. You had better come to my shack when work stops. I can't
leave my men now."

Charnock strolled off with his usual languid air, and Festing resumed
his work. He could not imagine what Charnock wanted, but wished he had
stopped away. In the meantime, he had much to do and drove his men
hard, until a steam-whistle hooted and they threw down their tools.
His supper was ready when he reached the shack, but Charnock had not
arrived, and although this was something of a relief, he felt annoyed.
He had told him to come when work stopped, but the fellow was never
punctual. An hour later Charnock walked in.

"I thought I'd better wait until after supper," he said. "My coming
now leaves you more at liberty to turn me out."

"To begin with, I'd like to know why you came at all?"

"Sadie thought it was time I did something useful, and I agreed. It's
obvious that if anything useful can be done, I'm the proper person to
undertake the job. Now you understand me, shall I go on?"

Festing nodded. Charnock's careless good humor had vanished; he looked
embarrassed but resolute, as if he meant to carry out a disagreeable
task. This was something new for Bob.

"Very well," the latter resumed. "In order to clear the ground, do you
imagine I'm in love with your wife?"

"I'm sure Helen is not in love with you," Festing rejoined.

"That's much, but we have got to talk about the other side of the
matter," said Charnock quietly. "I went to your home with Sadie
because I thought she and Helen could learn something from each other;
while I suspect she thought your society was good for me. It's obvious
that Helen agreed, and Sadie and I will always be grateful for her
staunchness in sticking to us, although you disliked it. Whether I'm
worth the quarrel or not is another thing. I hope you understand me as
far as I've gone."

Festing made a sign and Charnock continued: "Very well. There was a
time when I loved Helen, or honestly thought I did, but I imagine we
had both found out our mistake when I gave her up. It's certain that
she would not have been satisfied with me. Our romance came to nothing
and was done with long since; there's now no woman who could rouse the
feeling I have for my wife."

He got up and leaned upon his chair, with his eyes fixed on Festing.
"When I told you I was going to be married, you showed your confounded
supercilious pity! You thought I was making a fatal mistake. Well,
you're not a clever fellow, Stephen, but that was the worst blunder
you ever made. Marrying Sadie is perhaps the only wise thing I have
done. She has borne with my follies, hustled me when I needed it, and
helped me to fight my weaknesses; and if there's any hope of my being
a useful man, I owe it to her. Now it's obvious that I can't draw
comparisons, but I think you see where this leads."

"I do see," said Festing, who felt somewhat moved. He had not heard
Charnock talk like this before, and the note in his voice was
significant. He smiled, to ease the strain, as he replied:
"Comparisons would be particularly awkward just now, Bob. Besides,
they're unnecessary, I'm convinced!"

"Then there's no reason you shouldn't go home, and I've come to take
you back."

Festing shook his head. "There are two reasons. In the first place,
I've taken a contract."

"That fellow, Dalton, would probably let you off."

"It's uncertain, and I don't mean to ask. You don't seem to know that
Dalton is Helen's brother."

Charnock laughed. "Then I've no doubt he knows who I am; his manner
ought to have given me a hint. The situation has a touch of ironical
humor, and perhaps the strangest thing is that we should now be better
friends than we have been yet. But what still prevents your going
back?"

"Helen's money. I can't beg from her, after refusing the only thing
she has asked."

"You're a bit of a fool," Charnock remarked with a grin. "I've begged
from Sadie often and imagine she liked me for it; anyhow she expected
it. But if you have made up your mind, I expect I can't persuade you."

Festing's gesture indicated an unshaken resolve, and Charnock said:
"Then I'm going to stop and see you through."

"That's ridiculous!" said Festing, who was strongly moved now. "You
must think of Sadie. You can't stop; I won't allow it!"

Charnock's eyes twinkled. "I expect Sadie will bear the separation.
For one thing, we lost our crop and she'll save money while I'm away.
She's not parsimonious, but she hates to waste dollars, and must have
found me expensive now and then. Then I mean to earn something, and
can imagine her surprise when I show her my wages check."

On the surface, his mood was humorous, but Festing got a hint of
something fine beneath. "But," he said, "you mustn't stay, and I'd
sooner you didn't joke."

"Then I'll be serious; but after this there's no more to be said.
Don't imagine it's altogether for your sake I'm going to stay. You
know what I owe Sadie, and I want to show that her labor has not all
been lost. in fact, I've got my opportunity and mean to seize it. Then
if you feel some reparation is due to your wife, you can finish the
work you made her drop. Help me to cut out liquor and stay with my
job, and if you have trouble with your contract, I'll help all I can.
Is it a bargain?"

"It's a bargain," said Festing quietly. "Now I think we'll talk about
something else."

He sat still for some time after Charnock left. His bitterness against
his wife had gone, and it was plain that he had been a fool. For all
that, he could not go home yet; the money was still an obstacle. Pride
forbade his letting Helen support him. Moreover, he felt that to act
against his convictions now would cost him her respect. There was
perhaps no ground for supposing she felt much respect for him, but he
meant to keep all she had.

Then he got up and straightened the blankets in his bunk. The sooner
he finished his contract, the sooner he could return, and there was
much to be done next morning. The job had not begun well.

He got up at sunrise and spent several days repairing the damage the
accident had caused, after which, for a time, things went smoothly.
Then, one morning, he stood on a rocky ledge of the island, waiting
while two of his men dragged an iron pulley backwards and forwards
along a trolley wire.

The morning was clear and cold, and the snow had crept nearer the belt
of dwindling pines that looked like matches tufted with moss. They
grew in size as they rolled down the tremendous slopes, until they
towered above the track in tall, dark spires. The mist had gone; rocks
and trees and glistening summits were sharply cut, but the valley was
rather marked by savage grandeur than beauty. There was something
about its aspect that struck a warning note. It had a look of
belonging to a half-finished world, into which man might only venture
at his peril.

The river had fallen and its turbid green had faded, for the frost had
touched the glaciers that fed it on the heights, but the stream ran
fast, swirling round the island and breaking into eddies. In one
place, a white streak marked a rebound of the current from an obstacle
below, and it was across this spot the men dragged the pulley. A chain
and hook hung from the latter, and they were fishing for the skip that
was lost when the log broke the rope.

Festing had spent the most part of the previous day trying different
plans for grappling the skip, but the fast currents and smooth side of
the big steel bucket had baffled him. His efforts had cost time and
money, and he began to realize that he must give it up or try
dangerous means. The chain stopped and tightened as the hook struck
something below the surface, but next moment it moved on again, and
when this had happened a number of times Festing raised his hand.

"You can quit, boys," he said, and turned to a man close by. "She must
have fallen with the shackles where the hook can't get hold, but I
think she's only about three feet under water."

The other studied the broken surface. The water was not transparent,
but here and there a darker patch indicated a rock below. The eddies
made a revolving slack along the bank, but near the skip joined the
main current in its downstream rush.

"I've a notion there's a gully between her and us," he remarked.
"Anyhow, we'll try to wade, if you like."

Festing threw off his jacket and plunged in. When he had gone a few
feet he was up to his waist and it cost him an effort to keep his
feet. After two or three more steps, the bottom fell away and,
floundering savagely, he sank to his shoulders. Then his companion
pulled him back.

"The gully's there all right," the man remarked when they clambered
out. "Say, that water's surely cold."

"It will be colder soon when the ice comes down, and if the skip's to
be got out, we must get her now. I think I could reach her by
swimming."

The other looked doubtful, but Festing took off his heavy boots, and
picking up the end of the rope they had used to move the pulley,
walked to the edge of the island. He was now a short distance above
the skip, and hoped the eddies would help him to reach the ledge it
rested on before he was swept past; but he must avoid being drawn into
the main stream, since there was not much chance of landing on the
foam-swept rocks lower down. Making sure he had enough slack rope, he
plunged in.

An eddy swung him out-shore, towards the dangerous rush; the cold
cramped his muscles and cut his breath, but he was already below the
spot he had left, and there was no time to lose. The white streak that
marked the skip seemed to forge up-stream to meet him, and he swam
savagely until he was in the broken water and something struck his
foot. Then he arched his back and dived, groping with his hands. He
grasped the slippery side of the skip and felt the shackle loop. With
some trouble he got the rope through, and then tried to put his feet
on the bottom. They were swept away and he came up gasping, knowing he
had made a mistake that might cost him dear.

He held the end of the rope, but had been carried several yards down-
stream, and the lost ground must be regained. The rope was rather a
hindrance than a help, since the men on the bank could only haul him
back to the skip and drag him under water, while he must pull the
slack through the loop as he struggled to land. If he got out of the
eddies he would be swept past the island, but he did not mean to let
the rope go yet.

A revolving eddy swung him in-shore, but the reflux caught and drove
him a few yards lower down. The men were shouting, but he could not
tell what they said. The roar of water bewildered him, and he fixed
his eyes upon the rocks that slid past until a wave washed across his
face. For a moment or two he saw nothing, and then was vaguely
conscious that a trolley was running down the wire above. An
indistinct object hung from the trolley and next moment fell away from
it. A dark body splashed into the water, vanished, and came up close
by. Then he was seized by the shoulder and driven towards the bank.

The men had stopped shouting and ran into the water at the island's
lower end. Festing drifted towards them, but it looked as if he would
be carried past. The drag of the rope kept him back, and his strength
was going, but he braced himself for an effort and felt a helping
push. Then somebody seized his hand, he was pulled forward, and felt
bottom as he dropped his feet. In another few moments he staggered up
the bank and gave the nearest man the end of the rope.

"Stick to that," he gasped, and turned to see who had helped him.

"Bob!" he exclaimed.

Charnock dashed the water from his hair and face. "Thought you
mightn't make it and jumped on a trolley they were loosing off. But we
had better change our clothes."

"Come to my shack," said Festing. "Signal them to send a trolley,
boys."



CHAPTER XXI

CHARNOCK TRIES HIS STRENGTH

The skip that crossed the river was loaded, and Charnock and Festing
were forced to wait until it came back. They climbed to a platform on
the bridge-pier and stood for some minutes, shivering in the wind. The
skip would only carry one, and when it arrived Charnock made Festing
get in.

"You were in the water longest," he said. "Get aboard as quick as you
can!"

Festing was swung across the river, but waited until Charnock arrived,
when they ran up the hill to the former's shack. The fire was out and
Festing's face was blue, while Charnock's teeth chattered as he threw
off his clothes. Festing gave him another suit.

"I'm afraid they're not very dry, but they're the best I've got," he
said. "You did a plucky thing, Bob."

"Not at all, and you would, no doubt, have landed if I hadn't come.
You see, the skip was starting and I didn't stop to think. But it's
horribly cold. Where's your towel?"

He put on the half-dry clothes and went to the door. "I'm not often in
such a hurry to get back to work, but if I don't move I'll freeze. See
you later!"

"Stop a moment," Festing called. "Do you find the bunk-house
comfortable?"

"It's not luxurious, but doesn't leak very much unless it rains
unusually hard."

"Then why not come up here at night? I haven't another bunk or I'd
have suggested it before, but a carload of ship-lap has arrived and I
dare say Kerr will let me have a few boards."

"Thanks; I'd like that," said Charnock, who hurried away.

Soon afterwards Festing resumed his work. Kerr allowed him to take the
boards, and when he had finished his supper Charnock came in. Sitting
down by the fire, he filled his pipe.

"There's more room here and you can dry your clothes," he remarked,
stretching out his legs to the blaze.

"We're going to talk about what happened this morning," Festing
replied. "I was getting exhausted when you jumped off the skip."

"After all, I only gave you a push now and then. I was fresh, and
imagine I swim better than you."

"It's possible. I don't swim very well."

"Then why did you go into the rapid? I call it a blamed silly thing!"

"I felt I had to recover the skip."

"Not at all," said Charnock, with a grin. "The skip could have stopped
where it was. For a man who thinks much, you're ridiculously
illogical; got no proper sense of relative values. Your business is to
carry out your contract, and not risk your life for a rusty bucket."

"You risked yours!"

"I didn't. The only risk I ran was knocking your head off with my
heavy boots. But if you hadn't begun the folly, I wouldn't have
jumped, if the river had been full of the company's skips."

Then the door opened and the head contractor's engineer came in.

"You did a plucky thing to-day, Festing," he began; but Charnock
interrupted.

"Don't spoil my argument, Mr. Norton. I've been proving he made a fool
of himself."

"Then there were two of you," Norton rejoined. "The trolley was
running fast, and if you had dropped a few yards farther out, you
wouldn't have got back." He turned to Festing. "I was rather mad about
it when you broke the wire, and of course wanted the skip. Still I
didn't mean you to take a risk like that. We could have fixed the
thing."

"A matter of bookkeeping?" Charnock suggested. "Much depends on how
you charge up your costs, and one understands that doing it cleverly
leads to promotion. The worst is when you come to the total--"

"I'll talk to you later. You're up against a big proposition, Festing;
but if you find yourself in a tight place and I've a man or two to
spare, or can help---"

"Thanks; I may take advantage of your promise," Festing replied, and
Norton turned to Charnock.

"You are doing better than I expected when Dalton sent you along."

"I imagine my recent activity would surprise my friends, and you're a
stranger. However, I suppose I've got to keep it up so long as I work
on the road."

"That's sure," said the other dryly. "Well, I didn't think it prudent
to give you much at first, and now I'll mark you up an extra fifty
cents."

He stopped a few minutes, and when he went out Charnock laughed. "Not
a bad sort, but I'm puzzled by my satisfaction at getting three
dollars more a week. If I wanted a check not long since, I'd only to
look penitent and go to Sadie."

After this, they sat smoking quietly for a time, and then Charnock
drew up his legs and frowned.

"What's the matter?" Festing asked.

"Nothing much," said Charnock. "I've got a bit of a weakness I don't
think you know about. Neuralgic, I imagine; it grips me here." He
indicated the region between his belt and chest. "Comes and goes when
I'm not quite up to my proper form."

"Then I expect jumping into the river and standing about in wet
clothes brought it on."

"No; I have had it before. Besides, I've often been as wet; so have
you. Anyhow, the pain's going, and there's a thing I forgot to
mention. I met Wilkinson this afternoon."

Festing knitted his brows. "Wilkinson! What do you think has brought
him?"

"Chance and Sadie's scheming. I've cause to suspect she forced him off
his ranch, though she would probably wish she hadn't meddled if she
knew she'd sent him here. As he looked surprised when he saw me, I
imagine he'd no particular object in coming, except that he wanted a
job."

"Did you speak to him?"

"I did not. It's very possible he'd have resented my remarks. Then I
was on the company's business and the foreman was about."

"Well," said Festing thoughtfully, "it might be better to keep out of
his way as far as you can. I don't know that he's likely to do us
harm, but wish he had gone somewhere else."

They let the matter drop and talked about other things until they went
to bed. Next morning broke bracingly cold, but thin mist rolled among
the pines a few hundred feet above the track. For the most part the
climate of the interior of British Columbia is dry, and there are
belts where artificial irrigation is employed, but some of the valleys
form channels for the moist winds from the Pacific. Except in the
bitter cold-snaps, it was seldom that the white peaks above the track
were visible, and now something in the atmosphere threatened heavy
rain.

Charnock began his work as usual with the gravel gang. It was his
business to spread the ballast thrown off the cars by the plow that
traveled along the train, and although the labor was not exhausting it
had tried his strength at first. His muscles, however, were hardening,
and until the last few days, he had been able to scatter heavy
shovelfuls of stones with a dexterous jerk that distributed them among
the ties.

Streaks of dingy haze that looked like steam rose from the river. The
fresh smell of pines hung about the track, and the clash of shovels
and ringing of hammers mingled harmoniously with the deep-toned roar
of the rapids. The cold braced the muscles and stirred the blood, and
the sounds of activity had an invigorating influence while the day was
young, but Charnock felt slack. His pain had gone, but he was
conscious of a nervous tension and knew what it meant. A small blister
on his hand annoyed him, he growled at comrades who got in his way,
and swore when the gravel fell in the wrong place. Somehow he could
not get the stuff to go where it ought.

For all that, he felt no serious inconvenience until about eleven
o'clock, when a stinging pain spread across the front of his body. For
a few moments he leaned on his shovel and gasped, but the pang
moderated and he roused himself when the foreman looked his way. He
must try to hold out for another hour, and he savagely attacked his
pile of stones. When the echoes of the whistle filled the hollow he
had some trouble in reaching the bunk-house, but felt better after
dinner and a smoke, which he enjoyed sitting on a box by the stove;
but the time for rest was short. The foreman drove him out, and
feeling very sore and stiff, he resumed work.

About four o'clock another pang shot through him and he dropped his
shovel and sat down on a heap of ties, hoping to get a few minutes'
rest before the gravel train came up. The pain was troublesome, but
not dangerous. It might only bother him for a day or two, but it might
last a week. Rest was the best cure, but sick men were not wanted at
the camp. One must work or go, and when a cascade of gravel poured off
the cars as the plow moved along he pulled himself together.

It began to rain soon afterwards and he had left his slickers at the
bunk-house, but he stuck to his work, while the sweat the effort
caused him ran down his face, until the whistle blew. Then he went
limply up the hill to Festing's shack.

"I thought I'd have supper with you, if you don't mind," he said.
"Felt I couldn't stand for joining the boys. They've annoyed me all
day and eat like hogs."

Festing gave him a sharp glance. Bob did not often lose his temper,
but he looked morose.

"Of course I don't mind. Sit down."

Charnock did so, and when Festing had filled his plate resumed: "This
food is decently cooked, and I like my supper served and not thrown at
me. Still, in view of what we're charged for board, it's annoying to
think the contractor will be richer for a meal I haven't got."

"It's a new thing to find you parsimonious. I hope you'll keep it up."

Charnock's gloomy face softened. "I mean to. I'm thinking of Sadie's
feelings when I come home with a wad of five-dollar bills. She won't
be surprised; she'll get a shock."

He talked with better humor during the meal, but was silent afterwards
and sat with half-closed eyes, stretching out his feet towards the
crackling logs. Although the pain had nearly gone, it would, no doubt,
begin again in the morning, and he might have some trouble in hiding
his weakness from the foreman. He could lay off for a day or two, but
as his wages would stop and his board would be charged, it would cost
him something. Besides, if he laid off once or twice, he would be told
to leave.

This, however, did not account for his moodiness. He knew of no cure
except rest, but it was easy to find relief; a small dose of spirit
would banish the pain for a time. The remedy was dangerous,
particularly to him, since it offered an excuse for repeated
indulgence, and he struggled with the temptation. Liquor was difficult
to get, because there was no settlement for some distance and the
engineers had tried to cut off supplies, but it could be got. In fact,
Charnock knew where he could buy as much whisky as he wanted, at
something above its proper price. So far he had not done so, but
continued self-denial would require a stern effort. A drink would
banish the pain and enable him to work.

He had not known it fail since he drove over to Wilkinson's one
afternoon, when he had been loading prairie hay since early morning
and had forgotten his lunch. He reached the homestead scarcely able to
sit upright on the driving seat, and a man asked him what was the
matter. When Charnock told him he sent Wilkinson for whisky.

"I know all about it; the blamed thing grips me now and then if I work
too hard and cut out a meal," he said. "I'll fix you up for the rest
of the day, but won't answer for your feeling pert to-morrow."

As a matter of fact, Charnock had felt worse, but obtained relief by
increasing the dose. Indeed, he had once or twice done so with
unfortunate consequences; but after Sadie bought the farm and saw he
led a regular life the pain had gone and had not returned until he
went to work on the track. Now he was not going to give in, but did
not want to talk, and was glad that Festing was occupied with some
calculations and left him alone.

Next morning he felt better and had two days' ease, after which the
pain wrung him for the rest of the week. Somehow he stuck to his work,
and his comrades, who were rudely sympathetic, helped him to elude the
foreman's watchfulness. It was obvious that he could not keep it up,
but the trouble often ended suddenly. Then an evening came when he
could scarcely drag himself to the bunk-house for supper. It had
rained all day and the building was overheated by a glowing stove and
filled with the smell of rank tobacco and steaming clothes. Charnock
could not eat the roughly served food, and for a time sat slack and
limp, with the sweat upon his face, and his arms on the table. Then he
got on his feet awkwardly and set off for Festing's shack.

The rain and cold revived him, but walking was difficult, and when he
reached the shack he fell into a chair. Festing was not in, and
Charnock remembered he had said something about having extra work to
do. It was dark, but the log fire threw out a red light, and by and by
Charnock, glancing round as the shadows receded, thought there was
something unusual on the table. It looked like a bottle, but they kept
no liquor in the shack. Festing was abstemious but Charnock suspected
that he had practised some self-denial for his sake.

He waited until a blaze sprung up, and then his relaxed pose
stiffened. It was a bottle of whisky, better stuff than the
railroaders generally drank, for he knew the label. Moreover, when the
light touched the glass the yellow reflection showed that it was full.
He got up and approached the table, wondering how the liquor came
there, until he saw some writing on the label. Picking up the bottle,
he read his own name.

He put it down abruptly and stood with his hand clenched. The veins
swelled on his forehead and the pain nearly left him as he fought with
temptation. It was some weeks since he had tasted liquor, but this was
not all. A drink would give him relief from the gnawing ache and
perhaps a night's sound sleep. If he could get that, he might be well
for most of the next day. But he shrank from the remedy. There was
liquor enough to last some days, but the next bottle would not last as
long, and he knew there would be another. He must resist and conquer
his craving now.

He opened the door and picked up the bottle by the neck. With a swing
of his arm he could throw it among the pines; he wanted to hear it
smash. Victory could be won by a quick movement; but afterwards? The
touch of the glass and the way the yellow liquid gleamed in the light
fired his blood. If he was to win an enduring victory, he must fight
to a finish.

Leaving the bottle in the light, he moved his chair and sat down close
by, after which he looked at his watch. He would give himself half an
hour. If he could hold out now, he need not be afraid again, because
the odds against him would never be so heavy. The craving was
reenforced by pain and bodily fatigue; his jangled nerves demanded a
stimulant. Yet to win would make the next conflict easier, and he had
resources that he tried to marshal against the enemy.

The rough work on the track had given him confidence. He had always
had physical courage and muscular strength, and it was something to
feel he could hold his own with his comrades at a strenuous task.
Moreover, his saving Festing from the river had restored his self-
respect. But he had stronger allies, and his face got hot as he
thought of the two women who had fought for him when he had scarcely
tried to help himself.

Sadie had given up her ambitions and was content to live at the lonely
farm because she thought it best for him. He remembered the bitter
disappointments he had brought her and how he had found her sitting,
depressed and tired, at his neglected work when he came home from some
fresh extravagance. Sometimes she had met him with the anger he
deserved, but as a rule she had shown a patience that troubled him
now. Then there was Helen, who had borne slander and estrangement from
her husband for his sake. Both had made costly sacrifices, of which he
was unworthy; but it was unthinkable that the sacrifices should be
made in vain.

Perhaps it was his imagination, or the proximity of relief, but the
physical torment he suffered got worse. He could not sit straight, and
leaned forward, with head bent and hands grasping the sides of his
chair, until he looked at his watch. Ten minutes had gone, but he must
hold out for twenty minutes more. Fumbling awkwardly in his pocket, he
got his tobacco pouch. He did not want to smoke, but could occupy some
time by filling his pipe, and did so with slow deliberation. Then he
let the match go out as an idea dawned on him. The bottle had been put
there with an object.

Wilkinson hated Sadie. He had struck at her and injured Helen, but had
plotted a harder blow. The plot had, however, miscarried, for Charnock
almost forgot his pain in his fury. The fellow was a dangerous
reptile, and could not be allowed to hurt Sadie by his poisonous
tricks. Charnock meant to punish him, but must first overcome the
insidious ally the other had counted on. He looked at his watch again.
A quarter of an hour had gone; he felt stronger, and more confident.
For all that, the fight was stern, and at length Festing, entering
quietly, was surprised to find Charnock sitting with his watch in his
hand. His brows were knit; his face looked pinched and damp.

"What are you doing, Bob?" he asked.

"Trying my strength," said Charnock, who got up. "Three minutes yet to
go, but I think we can take it that I've won."

"I don't understand. Is this a joke?"

"Do I look as if I'm joking?" Charnock rejoined, with a forced smile.
"Anyhow, I'd like you to notice that I'm perfectly sober and this
bottle has not been opened, although I've sat opposite it for nearly
half an hour. I'd have finished the half-hour if you had not come in."

Festing picked up the bottle and read the writing. "Who brought the
thing here?"

"I suspect Wilkinson. He knows a drink would stop the pain."

"Ah," said Festing quietly. "I think I understand! You have made a
good fight, Bob, and I believe you've won. But we'll take precautions;
it will be some satisfaction to throw out the stuff."

He went to the door, but Charnock stopped him.

"Hold on! I mean to keep the satisfaction to myself. Give me the
cursed thing!"

Festing put the bottle in his hand, and opening the door Charnock
swung it round his head and let it go. There was a crash as it struck
a tree, and he went back to his chair.

"That's done with! It's remarkable, but I don't feel as sore as I did.
Perhaps the effort of resisting was a counter-irritant. However, we
have said enough about it. Tell me how you got on with the job that
kept you late."



CHAPTER XXII

FESTING'S NEW PARTNER

Charnock felt better next morning and luck favored him. An accident to
the gravel train disorganized the work, and he and some others were
dismissed for the afternoon. He went to Festing's shack, and making
himself comfortable by the fire, opened a tattered book and enjoyed
several hours of luxurious idleness. After his exertions in the rain
and mud, it was delightful to bask in warmth and comfort and rest his
aching limbs. The next day was Sunday and he lounged about the shack,
sometimes reading and sometimes bantering his comrade. The pain had
gone and he felt cheerful.

When he returned to work on Monday he was sent with a bag of bolts to
the bridge, and presently reached a spot where the heavy rain had
washed away the track. For about a dozen yards the terrace cut in the
hillside had slipped down, leaving a narrow shelf against the bank.
The shelf broke off near the middle, where a gully had opened in the
hill. Water flowed through the gap, and in order to get across one
must pick a way carefully over the steep, wet slope. This, however,
would save a toilsome climb, and Charnock, jerking the bag higher on
his shoulders, went on.

A few minutes later he saw Wilkinson come round a corner. One of them
would have to go back to let the other pass, and it would be difficult
to turn if they met at the gully. Charnock did not mean to give way,
and with his arms crooked to support his load, he required some room.
There was no way up the torn bank, and on the other side a nearly
perpendicular slope of wet soil and gravel ran down to the river. In
places, the surface was broken by small, half-buried firs.

When both were near the gully Wilkinson stopped, and Charnock, whose
head was bent, thought he had not known who he was. He certainly
looked surprised, and Charnock was conscious of rather grim amusement
as he guessed the reason. Wilkinson had, no doubt, not expected him to
be capable of carrying a heavy bag along the dangerous ledge.

"Hallo!" he said. "The boys told me you were crippled by your pains."

"I was. The pain's gone."

"Rest's a good cure," said Wilkinson. "You got laid off on Saturday,
didn't you?"

The curiosity that had made Charnock stop was satisfied. Since
Wilkinson's work kept him at some distance from the gravel gang, it
looked as if he had made inquiries about Charnock, and had probably
been surprised to learn he had started with the others. There was,
however, no use in taxing the fellow with trying to make him drunk,
because he would deny that he knew anything about the whisky or
declare that he had sent it with a friendly object.

"Yes," he said, "but I didn't need the cure as badly as you think.
However, I'm not in a talkative mood and this bag is heavy. I'll
trouble you to get out of the way."

Wilkinson looked hard at him. Charnock knew why he had sent the whisky
and meant to quarrel, but was shrewd enough to choose his ground.

"You can dump your bag and wait until I get past."

"Not at all," said Charnock. "I don't see why I should pick up the
load again to convenience you. Anyhow, I'm going on, and the thing
takes up some room."

Wilkinson measured the distance across the gap. He imagined he could
reach the other side first and squeeze against the bank, when Charnock
must take the outside and would probably fall. He did not mean to be
forced back, particularly as there were men at work not far off who
had, no doubt, noted Charnock's aggressive attitude. The latter,
however, was quicker than he thought, and reached the dangerous spot
before Wilkinson got across. Splashing, and slipping in the mud, he
advanced recklessly, and Wilkinson could not turn back. Moreover, he
could not strike Charnock, because he was in the workmen's view, and
the railroaders would not approve his attacking an apparently
defenseless man. He thought Charnock knew this, but the fellow was not
as defenseless as he looked. The heavy bag gave him a certain
stability and momentum.

"If you come any farther before I find a hold, we'll both go down," he
said.

"It looks like that," Charnock agreed. "I don't mean to stop."

Wilkinson clutched at the slippery bank but the wet gravel tore out.
It was impossible to get up, and if he tried to scramble down, he
might not stop until he fell into the river. He glanced at Charnock's
set face and got something of a shock. He had thought the fellow meant
to bluff and would give way if he were resolutely met; Charnock was
impulsive, but never stayed with a thing. Now, however, he looked
dangerous.

Driving his boots into the mud, Wilkinson braced himself, with one
foot so placed that it might trip his antagonist. Then he set his lips
as he met the shock. Charnock struck him with his shoulder and forced
him backwards by the weight of the bag. The mud slipped under his
feet; he staggered and clawed at the bank, but his fingers found no
hold. They plowed through the miry gravel, and falling face downwards,
he rolled down the hill.

Charnock lurched across the gully and stopped when he reached the
shelf. Wilkinson had swung round on his descent and his head was
lowest. He was sliding down rather slower, and there were some trees
not far off. Charnock did not care if he brought up among them or not,
and watched with a curious dispassionate interest. The fellow looked
ridiculous as he went down, scattering the gravel with his hands. He
was in some danger, but this was his affair.

Wilkinson rolled against the thin branches of a half-buried tree,
which caught and turned him partly round. The branches broke and he
went down sideways, until he and a wave of loosened gravel struck
another tree. This stopped him, and Charnock plodded on until he was
off the shelf.

"Better go down and fetch him, boys," he shouted to the other men. "I
reckon he's not much the worse, except in temper, and you'll find a
rope a piece back up the track."

He saw them start and then resumed his journey. Whether he was hurt or
not, Wilkinson could talk, for he was pouring out scurrilous epithets.
Charnock laughed as he stamped through the mud. His antagonist had got
the worst of it, and there was a satisfactory explanation of their
quarrel. They had met on a narrow path and neither would give way, but
as Charnock was carrying the load he had put the other in the wrong.
Wilkinson could not revenge himself by circulating the story he had
told before because it would interest nobody at the camp, and
Charnock's friendship with Festing would prove it untrue. In fact, he
imagined Wilkinson would think it prudent to leave him alone.

He delivered the bag, and going back stopped at a spot where Festing
and some others were fitting the end of a heavy beam into a pole.
Charnock watched while the men dragged out the beam and then replaced
it after deepening the hole. They were splashed and dirty, and
presently Festing leaned upon his shovel while he got his breath.

"You seem determined to fix it properly," Charnock remarked.

Festing nodded. "There's no use in piling rock about half-bedded
frames. It would mean trouble if they gave way under a freight train."

"You look ahead. The first difficulty is that if the frames don't hold
up, you won't get paid. The engineers are responsible after the
regular traffic starts, and I've no doubt they test a contractor's
work. You would save something in wages if you built a pile-driver to
sink those posts."

"I haven't the men or time. If I don't get this part of the work done
before the frost comes, it's going to cost me more. It would mean
using powder and making fires to thaw out the ground."

Charnock agreed and went on. He had been long enough over his errand
and the foreman's tongue was sharp, but he mused about Festing as he
picked his way across the pools between the ties. Festing's object was
to make money, and he imagined, perhaps foolishly, that he had urgent
ground for doing so, but he meant to make a good job. He felt his
responsibility, and apart from this took a curious delight in doing
things well. In fact, Festing's thoroughness was rather fine; he was
an artist in his way. The artist's methods, however, were not as a
rule profitable when applied to contract work. Then Charnock's
meditations were rudely disturbed, for he heard a shout and saw the
foreman had noted his cautious advance.

"Watch him coming, boys!" the latter remarked. "Like a blamed cat
that's scared of wetting its pretty feet! Say, do you want a private
car to move you along the track? Jump now and load up that trolley,
you soft-bodied slob!"

Charnock obeyed, promptly and silently. He had, at first, responded to
encouragement of this kind by a witty retort, but had found the
consequences unfortunate. There was no use in wasting delicate satire
on a dolt. Besides, it was a relief to feel he was getting better and
was able to work.

In the afternoon, he had occasion to pass the spot where Festing was
occupied, and stopped to watch. The men were getting a big log on end;
two steadying it and supporting part of the weight by a tackle fixed
to its top, while Festing and another guided its foot into a hole. The
ground was wet and slippery and their task looked almost beyond their
strength, but Charnock knew he would get into trouble if he were seen
going to their help. Since he was not in view of the foreman where he
stood on top of the bank, it was prudent to remain there.

The log swayed as its point caught a stone, and Festing's hands
slipped on the muddy bank. He shouted to the men at the tackle, who
bent their backs and hauled, but the timber did not rise as it ought.
Charnock, looking round, noted that the stake the tackle was fastened
to was pulling out.

"Get from under! She's coming down on top of you!" he cried.

Festing looked up and saw the danger; but if the log fell it would not
stop until it and the tackle plunged into the rapid below.

"Stay with it!" he gasped; and he and his companions braced themselves
against the crushing weight.

The veins rose on his forehead. His back was arched and his wet
slickers split, but it was plain to Charnock that the men could not
hold up the timber, which would injure them if it fell. But with help
they might perhaps move it enough for the point to sink into the hole
before the tackle gave way, and Charnock leaped recklessly from the
top of the bank. He knew what he was undertaking when he took hold.
Festing would not let go; he meant to put the log into its socket, or
let it start on its plunge to the river over his body.

For a few tense moments they struggled savagely, with slipping hands
and labored breath, while Festing, using his head as a ram, pushed the
point of the swaying mass nearer the hole. Then, when all could do no
more, the strain suddenly slackened and there was a jar as the log,
sliding through their arms, sank into the pit. After this, it was
easier to hold it, while one threw in and beat down the gravel. Five
minutes later, Charnock sat down on the bank. His face was crimson,
his hands bled, and his chest heaved as he fought for breath, but he
felt ridiculously satisfied.

"Thanks!" gasped Festing. "Lucky you came along. I thought she was
going!"

"Blamed silly thing not to let her go," Charnock replied. "Some day
your confounded obstinacy will ruin you. Anyhow, we've put her in. Not
bad for a cripple!"

Then he sucked his torn fingers, and fearing that he might have to
account for the delay, went about his business. It was curious that
the tense exertion had not brought on the pain, but his back and
shoulders were sore when he went to Festing's shack in the evening.
The small, earth-floored room was dry and warm, and smelt pleasantly
of resinous wood. They did not light the lamp, for although it was
dark the red glow of the fire flickered about the walls. Charnock felt
a comforting sensation of bodily ease as he lounged in his chair, and
when he had smoked a pipe told Festing about his encounter with
Wilkinson.

"I imagine the brute isn't hurt much, but don't know if I'm glad or
not," he said. "He looked remarkably funny as he slid down the bank,
with his arms and legs spread out like a frog. Suppose I should have
thought about the risk of his tobogganing into the river, but I
didn't."

"Well, I expect he deserves all he got, and remember the satisfaction
it gave me to throw him out of the poolroom. Looks as if we were
primitive."

"We're all primitive in this country," Charnock rejoined. "They have
no use for philosophical refinement in Canada. Their objects are plain
and practical and they employ simple means. We're not bothered by the
conventions that handicap you at home. If a man hurts you, and you're
big enough, you knock him out."

"We have both knocked out Wilkinson, but I'm not sure that we have
done with him. The simple plan's not always as easy as it looks."

"I don't think he can make much trouble. If he does, one of us will
knock him out again. As it will hurt us less than it hurts him, he'll
probably get tired first."

They let the matter drop, and Festing presently remarked: "The rain
makes things difficult, but it's lucky the frost keeps off. I must try
to get the frames up at the awkward places before it begins."

"You haven't enough men."

"I could use more. Still, one couldn't engage men to come here on
short notices, and if we get a long cold-snap I might have trouble to
keep them employed. I could, of course, use a number of men and teams
hauling out logs across the snow, but the heavier stuff won't be
needed for some time, and I can't lock up my money. The small man's
trouble is generally to finance his undertaking."

Charnock looked thoughtful. "Yes; that's where the pinch comes. You
can't work economically unless you have capital. Sadie's a good
business woman, and she often said that if you want to save dollars,
you must spend some."

"Much depends on how you spend."

"Just so," said Charnock, smiling. "Betting against marked cards
doesn't pay, but I've stopped that kind of thing. However, I think I
could get you the money you need."

Festing looked hard at him. "You have none."

"Sadie has a pile. She'd give me enough with pleasure if she thought
it would help towards my reform. But if you take the dollars, you've
got to take me."

"Ah!" said Festing. "But why do you want to join?"

"To begin with, I'm getting avaricious and want to go home with my
wallet full. Then I'm tired of my job. I suppose it's a foreman's
privilege to insult his gang, but the brute we've got is about the
limit. He's truculent but not very big, and some day, if I stop on,
I'll pitch the hog into the river. Then I'll certainly get fired, and
there'll be an end to my dreams of wealth."

Festing was silent for a few moments. He understood Charnock better
now, and knew that when he was serious he often used a careless tone.
Bob wanted to help him as much as he wanted to help himself, and he
saw no reason to reject his plan. He must, however, be warned.

"If you join me, you run some risk of losing your money."

"Of course. It's obvious that you don't think the risk very big, and
I'm willing to take a fighting chance."

"I don't know how big it is. That depends on the weather and
accidents."

"Exactly," said Charnock. "If I join you with some money and teams,
will it lessen, or add to, the risk?"

"It will lessen the risk."

"Will it reduce, or increase, your working costs?"

"I think the answer's obvious."

"Then it looks as if you'd be foolish to turn my offer down."

Festing got up and walked about irresolutely for a moment or two. Then
he stopped with some color in his face.

"I called you a shirker, Bob, and ordered Helen to leave you alone.
Now I see you're the better man and I'm a confounded, fault-finding
prig. But you're not vindictive, and we'll let that go. The trouble
is, I'm obstinate and sure of what I can do--at least, I was, though
my confidence has got shaken recently. Well, I think I can finish this
contract, but don't know. I've lost a good deal of money, and would
hate to feel I might lose yours."

"That's the line you took with Helen," Charnock rejoined. "I'm not
surprised that she was vexed, and since we're being frank, you're a
little too proud of yourself yet. Anyhow, I like a plunge; it's
exhilarating, and there's not much excitement in betting on a
certainty." He paused and resumed with a twinkle: "Besides, if there
is a loss, Sadie will stand for it."

Festing gave him a puzzled look, and he laughed.

"You don't understand yet? You're dull, Stephen. Now I'm not a greedy
fellow, and my chief use for dollars is to spend them. I want to take
back some money to show Sadie I've made good, and if we put this
contract over she'll be satisfied and you'll have her gratitude.
That's why I mean to make a job if I join you, and I imagine you're
with me there. Well, perhaps I've said enough. Is it a bargain?"

"Yes," said Festing quietly, and they shook hands.



CHAPTER XXIII

CHARNOCK MAKES PROGRESS

Deep snow covered the hillside and the pines, with lower branches
bent, rose in somber spires against the dazzling background. The river
had shrunk and the dark water rolled in angry turmoil between ice-
glazed rocks. Streaks of gray haze rose a foot or two into the nipping
air, and the clash of shovels had a new, harsh ring. It was nearly
dinner time, and Festing noted that his men had not done much since
breakfast as he walked down the beaten hollow in the middle of the
track. One could not tell how long the cold-snap would last, but it
had already embarrassed him.

He stopped above an excavation where Charnock and another were cutting
a hole in the frozen gravel. The former held a steel bar in blue,
frost-cracked hands and twisted it in the cavity while his companion
struck the end. He knelt, in a cramped pose, in the snow, and Festing
smiled. Bob was fond of comfort, and it was strange to see him
occupied like this. Then, noting the length of the bar, he thought
they would not sink the hole deep enough for the blasting charge
before dinner, which was unfortunate, because the powder fumes are
poisonous and would hang about the spot for some time.

A few moments later the whistle blew, but Charnock and his companion
did not stop, and Festing heard the thud of the hammer as he went on.
This rather puzzled him. The work was hard and he had not expected
Charnock's assistant to continue his task longer than he need. Festing
was fastidiously just, and thought it shabby to steal a workman's
time; moreover, he imagined that if he had asked the fellow to go on
after the whistle blew he would have refused.

Curiosity led him to wait farther along the track until the thud of
the hammer stopped. It looked as if Charnock was putting in the
dynamite, and Festing hoped he would be careful with the detonator. By
and by he heard a warning shout, and a moment or two afterwards saw a
blaze of light. Then there was a curious sharp report, and pieces of
broken rock splashed into the river. The gorge rang with echoes and a
mass of gravel roared down the slope. It was obviously a good shot and
had moved more spoil than Festing expected. A glance at his watch
showed that the others had given up a quarter of an hour of their
short noon rest.

Festing set off again, and in the meantime, Charnock, holding his
breath as he stood on the snowy bank, looked down into the hole the
explosion had made.

"I think we've made a first-class job," he said, stepping back out of
reach of the fumes. "I like the company's taste in powder."

"It's better than ours," his companion agreed with a chuckle.

"Much better. The company is richer than us. It would have saved us
some hard work if you had hooked a few more sticks."

"They're a mean crowd," said the other. "Blamed suspicious how they
tally out their stores, but I'll see what I can do. I'd sooner use
good powder than cut frozen gravel with the pick."

"The pick's no tool for white men. We won't use it unless we're
forced," Charnock answered, and both laughed.

He went to the shack, and while they were at dinner Festing asked:
"How did you persuade Jim Brown to stop until you fired the shot?"

"I didn't persuade him. I took it for granted he would stop."

"He's a good man, but sometimes sulky if one wants him to do what he
thinks is outside his job. I don't imagine I'd have found him so
obliging if I'd asked him to keep on."

Charnock laughed. "Perhaps not; our methods are different. You would
have explained logically why the thing ought to be finished; but
that's a mistake. There are not so many logical people as you think.
Instead of arguing, I made a silly joke."

"You certainly get on with the boys," said Festing thoughtfully.

"They're a careless, irresponsible crowd. I'm irresponsible, too, and
they understand me. They trust you, but you sometimes puzzle them.
Perhaps that accounts for the thing."

Festing talked about something else until they went back to work. Next
morning he climbed the hill to a level bench where some of his men
were busy hauling logs to the top of the skids. It was easier to move
the big trunks across the snow, and he had seized the opportunity to
get some out, but was surprised when he saw the number ready to be
sent down. While he examined them, Charnock, sprinkled with dusty
snow, came up, leading a heavy Percheron team. They dragged a log into
place, and then Charnock unhooked the chain and beat his hands. His
skin-coat was ragged and his fur-cap battered, but he looked alert and
virile as he stood by the steaming horses' heads. The gray trunks of
the pines made a good background for his tall figure, which had an
almost statuesque grace.

"You look very well, Bob," Festing remarked. "It's obvious that the
pain has gone."

"It won't come back while the dry weather lasts; I don't know about
afterwards. These are pretty good logs."

"I was wondering how you were able to bring up so many."

"They're here; that's the main thing. You can look after other matters
and leave this to me."

"If you don't mind, I'd like to see how you did it," Festing replied.

"Oh, well! You're a persistent fellow; I suppose you had better come
along."

Festing went with him and stopped where a gang of men were at work
among the fallen trees. Two, swaying backwards and forward with
rhythmic precision, dragged a big crosscut-saw through a massive
trunk. Others swung bright axes, and the wood rang with the noise of
their activity. All were usefully employed, but there were more of
them than Festing expected.

"The two boys with the cantpoles belong to the contractor's bridge-
gang," he said. "What are they doing here?"

"I think I told you Norton said I could have them when we were moving
the big poles," Charnock replied. "He saw I needed help."

"But that was some days since. He sent them to help at a particular
job which you have finished."

"He hasn't asked me to send them back. Looks as if he'd forgotten
them. Anyhow, they're useful."

"We have no right to keep the men. How did you get them to stop?"

"That was easy," said Charnock. "The cooking at the bunk-house isn't
very good, and I told our man to find out what they liked. In fact, I
said we'd stand for it if he put up a better hash."

Festing laughed. The plan was characteristic of Bob's methods.

"You must send them back," he said, and went away, doubting if Bob
would do so.

For all that, he admitted that Charnock was doing well. He stuck to
his work, and had a talent for handling men. Nobody was at all afraid
of him; but his sympathetic forbearance with his helpers' weaknesses
and his whimsical humor seemed to pay much better than bullying. He
made a joke where Festing frowned, but the latter felt thoughtful as
he went down-hill. One must make allowance, but Bob was something of a
responsibility.

A week later, he got a jar as he stood with Charnock beside a part of
the track they had laboriously underpinned. The ballast train was
coming down, filling the valley with its roar, and the beaten snow
heaved among the ties as the big cars rolled by. The rails sank
beneath the wheels and then sprang up until the load on the next axle
pressed them down again; the snow flaked off the side of the road-bed,
which was built up with broken rock. Festing thought the movement was
too marked and waited for the locomotive, which was coupled to the
back of the train.

The engine was of the ponderous, mountain type, but it ran smoothly,
with steam cut off, and although the ground trembled and the rails
groaned as it passed, there was no threatening disturbance.

"The bank's holding up, and this was about the worst spot," Charnock
remarked. "We had some trouble in bedding the king posts in the
slippery stuff."

Then Kerr gave them a nod as he went by. "Looks pretty good, and they
have a full load on the cars."

"I think we'll wait until the train comes back," Festing said to
Charnock. "The engineer will open the throttle wide to pull her up the
grade."

They sat down in a hollow of the bank, for a bitter wind blew through
the gorge, and after a time the roar of falling gravel echoed among
the pines. Then there was a heavy snorting and the locomotive came
round a curve, rocking and belching out black smoke. The cars banged
and rattled, slowing with jarred couplings and rolling on when the
driving wheels gripped. Festing waited anxiously, because the wheels
of a locomotive when driven hard strikes what is called a hammer blow.

By and by the ground began to throb; the vibration got sharper, and
Festing watched the track as the engine passed. Cinders rattled about
him, there was a mist of snow, but he saw the cross-ties start and the
rails spring up and down. Then the clanging cars sped past, and when
they had gone he climbed down the side of the bank.

It was now bare of snow and one could see the stones. Two or three had
fallen, and the edges of the others were a little out of line. The
unevenness was marked, and although one or two of the heads of the
timbers had moved, the movement might not have caught Festing's eye
had he not known the treacherous nature of their support. He did not
think anybody else would notice that they were not quite in their
proper place.

"I'm afraid we're up against trouble, Bob," he said.

Charnock looked unusually thoughtful. "The engineer had to start from
a dead stop and turn on full steam. That made the jarring worse, but
it wouldn't happen with the ordinary traffic."

"Perhaps not," Festing agreed. "Still, you see, the frequent
repetition of a smaller shock--"

Charnock stopped him. "It's those confounded posts! If we pull them
out, we'll have to cut down to the rock to find a solid bed, and
there's a mass of stone to move. What would the job cost?"

He said nothing for a minute after Festing told him, and then
remarked: "It's Kerr's business to find fault, and he looked
satisfied."

"He doesn't know as much about it as we do."

"Then I wish we knew less. How long do you think the track would stand
if we left it alone?"

"Until we got paid," said Festing. "It might stand for some time
afterwards."

He fixed his eyes on Charnock and waited. Bob had expressed some
praiseworthy sentiments about making a good job, but this was a
different thing from living up to them when it would cost him much.
What they ought to do was plain, but Festing admitted that the
sacrifice required an effort. Then, somewhat to his surprise, Charnock
looked up with a smile.

"You're not sure of me yet, Stephen, and I don't know that you can be
blamed. It's a nasty knock, but we have got to bear it. Stop there a
few minutes."

"Where are you going?"

"To bring Kerr back and show him the damage. He'll have to lay off the
gravel gang while we pull down the bank."

Festing waited. Bob would stand by him, but he felt anxious. It would
be an expensive business to rebuild the track and the frost would make
things worse. In fact, if they had any more trouble of the kind, they
might be ruined. Then he got up as he saw Kerr coming along the line.

In an hour or two the rails were up and they began to pull down the
rockwork that faced the bank. The ragged stones cut their numbed
hands, their backs ached with lifting heavy weights, and they stumbled
under the loads they carried up the snowy incline. They had, however,
help enough, for Charnock went away for a time and came back with
three or four men from the construction gang. Festing noted that
although he made them useful, he did not give them the hardest work.
He refrained from asking how Charnock got the men, but was not
surprised when the foreman arrived and inquired in forcible language
what they were doing there.

"Let me answer him," said Charnock. "I feel in the mood. It's my first
chance of letting myself go; as long as you're working for wages the
advantage is with the boss. Besides, I think I ought to do something
for the boys, who can't talk back."

Festing admitted that he talked very well. Charnock had a keen eye for
the ridiculous and a pretty wit, and was no longer handicapped by the
fear of being dismissed. While the foreman replied with coarse but
rather meaningless abuse, Charnock's retorts had a definite aim and
hit their mark. He indicated with humorous skill the defects in his
antagonist's looks and character, and Festing's gang laughed
uproariously, while the borrowed workmen applauded as loudly as they
durst. At length, the foreman, breathless and red in face, gave up the
unequal contest and returned to his first question.

"If you came for an argument, you've got it, and I can go on for some
time yet," Charnock replied. "However, if you really want to know why
the boys are helping me, you can ask Mr. Norton at the bridge."

The foreman retired, muttering, but not towards the bridge, and
Festing looked hard at Charnock.

"I was anxious for a moment," Charnock admitted. "But I didn't think
he'd go. For one thing, I knew he knows Norton doesn't like him."

"Then I'll leave you to deal with Norton if he hears about the matter.
Now you have had your amusement, we had better get on."

The short rest and laughter had refreshed the gang and they made good
progress. As the holes between the frames deepened, the work got
harder and the footing bad, because they were forced to stand on
slippery ledges while they passed the heavy stones from man to man.
Charnock was ready with jocular sympathy if one fell or a stone
bruised somebody's hand, and his jokes spurred on the weary. It got
dark soon in the hollow, but as the light faded the flame of a
powerful blast-lamp sprang up and threw out a dazzling glare. The lamp
belonged to the company, and Festing did not ask Charnock how he had
got it. Bob had his own methods, and it was better to leave him alone.
When the whistle blew, the latter turned to the borrowed men.

"Go to our shack, boys, and get supper there. I told the cook to fix
up something extra, and dare say you'll find it better hash than
yours. I'd like you to come back to-morrow, but am afraid it's risky."



CHAPTER XXIV

THE CHINOOK WIND

The frost got more rigorous, drying the snow to a dusty powder in
which Festing's lumber gang floundered awkwardly. Had there been a
thaw, the surface would have hardened, but now they were forced to
move the logs through loose, billowy drifts. The men sank to their
knees, it was difficult to find a fulcrum for the handspikes, and the
logs would not run well on the beaten roads. The latter broke into
holes, and the dry snow retarded the smooth sliding of the lumber like
dust. One could not touch a saw or ax-head with the naked hand.

Festing had seen that he might be embarrassed by hard frost, but had
not expected it to continue. On the central tablelands of British
Columbia winter is severe, but near the coast and in valleys open to
the West the mitigating warmth of the Pacific is often felt. He had
imagined that when his work upon the track was hindered the snow would
help him to bring down lumber ready for use when a thaw set in. Now,
however, wages were mounting up and little work was being done. He
began to wonder what would happen if a change did not come.

One morning he knelt in a hole below the track, holding a drill. He
wore mittens, but the back of one was split and showed a raw bruise on
his skin. It needs practise to hit the end of a drill squarely, and
Charnock, who swung the big hammer, had missed. The worst was that the
bruise would not heal while the temperature kept low. They were
sinking a hole through frozen gravel that was worse to cut than rock,
because the drill jambed in the crevices and would not turn. But for
the frost, they need not have used the tool; a hole for the post they
meant to put in could have been made with a shovel, without using
expensive powder.

When he thought they had gone deep enough Festing got up and looked
about. White peaks glittered against a vivid blue sky. The pines
sparkled with frost and the snow in their shadow was a soft gray. The
river looked as black as ink, except where it foamed among the rocks,
and the gorge echoed with the crash of drifting ice that shocked and
splintered on the ledges. The light was strong, and rocks and trees
far up the slopes stood out, harshly distinct. As he turned to the
West, however, he noted a faint haziness and shading off in the
outline of the hills.

"I don't know if that softness means anything, and hardly believe it
does," he said. "When I made up the wages book last night and saw what
the work we have been able to do has cost us, I got a shock. The boys
are a pretty good crowd, and if we pay them off we won't get them
back; but it's obvious we can't go on long like this."

Charnock nodded. "How much money have we left?"

When Festing told him he looked thoughtful. "I didn't know things were
quite as bad! Well, I suppose I could get another cheque, but don't
want to put too much strain on Sadie's generosity. She might imagine
I'd got on a jag! There are drawbacks to having a character like mine;
it's easier lived up to than got rid of. However, what do you
suggest?"

"We'll hold on while the money lasts."

"The plan's simple, as far as it goes. It's remarkable how short a
time money does last and how hard it is to earn. Sadie misled me about
that; she used to hint that I had only to apply my talents and pick up
the cash; but since she's a business woman, she ought to have known
better. The virtuous path is about as rocky as luck can make it; but
perhaps you take something for granted if you allow that making money
is virtuous."

Festing frowned impatiently. "One ought to pay one's debts."

"One's generally forced," Charnock replied. "But I think I see what
you mean. We undertook this contract and must carry it out if
possible. Sadie would agree. She's like her father, and the old man
often said: 'It's safe to deal with Keller's. When you put up the
money, we put up the goods.' But let's get the powder."

Opening a box, he took out a stick of yellow material that looked
rather like a thick candle. A big copper cap was squeezed into one
end, and from the cap there trailed a length of black fuse. Festing
put the stick into the hole and cautiously filled this up with frozen
soil, leaving a short piece of fuse sticking out. While he was feeling
for his matches Kerr arrived.

"You are making trouble for me," the latter began. "You did the square
thing in pulling out the weak frames, but they're not replaced, and I
can't run the gravel train across the spot. As the back track is
nearly ballasted up, I don't know how I'm going to use the locomotive
and cars."

"The frost is stopping us," said Festing. "It is not our fault."

"That's so, but my chiefs at headquarters don't want to know whose
fault it is. Their method, as you ought to know, is statistical--we're
given a number of men and tools, and the value of the work done must
equal the expense. It's the only standard for judging an engineer. His
business is to overcome the difficulties, and if he's unable he's
obviously of no use."

Charnock grinned. "Employers' logic! Piffle of that kind only goes
when there are more engineers than jobs. I imagine there'll be a
change some day."

"I'm sorry Dalton's gone back," Kerr resumed. "He's a friend of yours,
and would have seen what we're all up against. But there's another
thing; the boys are beginning to kick. We have had to lay off the
ballast gang for a day now and then, and they claim they're not
getting a square deal. One fellow told me we oughtn't to have given
the contract to a man without capital to carry him over a set-back. He
said if you'd had money you could have hired extra labor and kept to
schedule, and in the end it wouldn't have cost you more."

"The argument is sound," Festing agreed. "In fact, it shows more
understanding than I'd expect the boys to use."

Kerr looked hard at him. "I suspect that somebody is stirring them up.
You see, they haven't demanded more wages yet; they only claim that I
ought to hustle you."

"The fellow's object isn't very plain, but I've no doubt the demand
for bigger pay will come. Well, we can't hire more help, and if
there's no change soon, the frost will break us without your
bothering. We'll do our best until then."

"We'll leave it at that," said Kerr, with a sympathetic nod; and when
he went away Charnock turned to Festing.

"Wilkinson's the man, and as the boys have a real grievance he'll find
them easy to work on. That means I've got to write to Sadie."

"No," said Festing. "If you write, I stop. Your wife has sent you
money enough, and I'm afraid some of it is lost. We must trust to
luck, and in the meantime we'll fire the shot."

He blew a whistle and then striking a match lighted the fuse and
hurried away. A minute or two later, lumps of frozen gravel flew about
the track and showers of smaller fragments scattered the snow. As
Festing came out of his shelter a man with an angry look advanced
along the line.

"Why don't you warn folks before you shoot off your rocks?" he asked.

"My partner whistled," Charnock answered. "What's the matter, anyhow?
Did the shot jar your nerves?"

"A rock a foot across mighty near jarred my head! A smaller piece got
me plumb on the ribs."

Festing thought this unlikely, in view of the fellow's distance from
the explosion, but could not be certain he was not struck.

"I'm sorry if you got hurt" he said. "You ought to have heard the
whistle."

"Anyhow, I didn't. You want to stop shooting rocks when there are men
around. Then you've mussed up the track and can't put her straight.
Why don't you hire more boys and rush the job? Can't see why the
bosses let two deadbeats like you and your partner have the contract!"

"We have got it. How we mean to carry it out is our business, not
yours."

"Then it's certainly our business if we work or not," the other
rejoined. "As the bosses will find out if they reckon we're going to
lose our time to help you save your dollars!"

He went away grumbling, and Charnock looked at Festing.

"Was that bluff? Do you think he means it?"

"I don't know. They haven't lost much time through our fault, but the
frost has interfered with other jobs, and I expect there'll be trouble
if it lasts. I'm puzzled, because they're not a bad-tempered lot, and
I understand that Wilkinson is not a favorite. Your throwing him down
the bank wouldn't strengthen his influence."

"It's easy to work on men's feelings when they're discontented,"
Charnock replied. "The worst is that Kerr can't stand by us if the
gang put down their tools. Labor's scarce in the mountains, and he'll
be forced to do what they want."

Festing gloomily agreed. "I'm afraid so. However, we must do the best
we can in the time we have left."

They worked by a blast-lamp until late at night and began again before
daybreak in the morning. The weakened frame had been replaced, but
others needed strengthening and the rockwork must be built up among
the timbers. The stones required careful fitting, and it was
impossible to dress them to rough shape. The frozen surface resisted
the tool and they broke if much force was used. Fires were made, but
the rock thawed irregularly and much time was lost.

Festing's bruised hand gave him trouble, his mittens wore to rags, and
his numbed fingers cracked and bled, but he worked savagely until
evening. Then he walked stiffly to the shack and sat, dejected and
aching, looking at the food on the table. Although he had eaten little
all day, it cost him something of an effort to begin his meal.

An hour afterward he heard steps and voices outside and opened the
door. The light shone out from behind him and he saw a group of dark
figures in the snow.

"Well, boys," he asked, "what do you want?"

"We want to know when you're going to fix the track," one replied.

"That's easily answered. We mean to put it right as soon as we can."

"Not good enough!" remarked another. "We've got to know when."

"Then I'm sorry I can't tell you. It depends on the weather."

Some of them growled, and Festing felt Charnock's hand close warningly
on his arm.

"Won't you come into the light, boys?" the latter asked. "I'd like to
know to whom I'm talking."

They did not move, and Charnock resumed: "Have you brought your
foreman or Wilkinson?"

Somebody said neither had come, and Charnock nodded.

"Well, I reckon they know what's best for them! Wilkinson doesn't like
me, but he's not looking for more trouble; I imagine he's had enough.
Then the foreman's not a friend of mine, but he has a better job than
yours and means to hold it down. If you get up against the bosses,
he's not going to be fired."

There was silence, and he saw his remarks had not been wasted. He had
hinted that the men were being used and given them ground to distrust
their leaders.

"I half expected another fellow, a friend of Wilkinson's, who claimed
he had been hit by a stone. Has he come along?"

"Said he was too sore and would have to lay off to-morrow," one
replied. "That's another thing. When you shoot off your blasts you
have got to watch out that nobody gets hurt."

"Sure," agreed Charnock. "We did watch out and blew the whistle; but
we want to do the square thing. If Pearson got hurt and can't work,
let him show you the bruise. We'll stand for his pay until you think
he's fit to begin again."

"That's fair," admitted the other with a laugh. "He wasn't showing the
bruise much. Say, you're pretty smart!"

"I hope so," said Charnock, modestly. "Looks as if I needed all the
smartness I've got. We're up against the weather and a big awkward
job, and then you come along and worry us! However, what are you going
to do about it if we can't put the rails down as soon as you want?"

"We'll make the bosses break your contract."

Charnock pondered, keeping his hand on Festing's arm, because he
thought he could handle the matter better than his comrade. Festing
was too blunt and sometimes got angry. He saw that the men were
determined, but while they had, no doubt, been worked upon, he thought
they had no personal grudge against him or his partner.

"There's only one way you could put the screw to the bosses, and that
way's dangerous. The /Colonist/ states that they have a number of men
unemployed in the coast towns. If Kerr wrote to a labor agent, he'd
send him up a crowd."

"It would cost him high to bring the men here, and take some time."

"That is so," Charnock agreed. He saw the others had made their plans
and calculated the pressure they could put upon the engineers. Time
was important, and he thought the foreman had helped them to estimate
the expense the company would incur by the delay before they could get
new men.

"Putting down your tools would cost you something," he resumed. "How
long do you imagine it would take to persuade Kerr?"

"I guess a week would fix him; he wouldn't stand for a fortnight."

"Very well! I don't suppose your object is to put us off the road; you
want what you're entitled to. So do we all, and though it's often
troublesome to get, there's no use in taking the hardest way. If you
stop, you lose a fortnight's wages and somebody will get fired. Not
now, of course, but afterwards; the bosses know their job. Well, give
us ten days, and the time you miss won't run to many dollars. If we
can't put the rails down then, we'll quit."

There was silence for a moment, and then somebody said, "We'll let it
go at that. It's a deal!"

The others growled consent and Charnock waited until they moved away,
after which he shut the door and sat down wearily.

"You took the right line," Festing said.

"I hesitated about fixing the time, but we can't go on much longer."

"No," said Festing. "Well, we have ten days!"

They said nothing more and soon afterwards went to bed. Next morning
there was a marked haziness in the west, but the frost was keener. It
looked as if they must be beaten, although they meant to fight until
defeat was sure, and Festing was surprised when he glanced at his
comrade. This was not the careless lounger he had known. Charnock's
face was grim and somewhat pinched; his hands were torn and bruised.
He picked the heaviest stones to lift and was the first to take hold
of ponderous beams. Festing owned that he had misjudged Charnock, but
not more than he had misjudged himself. His farming had been a rash
experiment and the contract a reckless gamble; the one threatened to
end as badly as the other. Then Bob had somehow kept his wife's love,
and he, with senseless obstinacy, had estranged Helen.

His thoughts were depressing, but they drove him on. Hope was dead; he
had made a horrible mess of things. All that was left was to take his
punishment and hold on until he was knocked out, but he meant to do
this. He did not stop for dinner with the rest, but occupied himself
with something that needed doing, and forgot that he had gone without
the meal. Afterwards a pain began in his left side, but he had other
aches, and the extra discomfort did not trouble him much. In the
afternoon he worked with a kind of sudden fury, and when at length the
tired men dropped their tools found some difficulty in straightening
his back. He had never used his muscles as he had done for the past
few days, but the strain would soon be over.

It was unusually dark when he went up the hill to the shack. The pines
rose in blurred masses from the shadowy snow and he could not see the
hollow of the path. Supper was a melancholy meal, but he ate because
he was hungry, and afterwards dragged his chair to the fire. There was
a great pile of crackling logs and the blaze flickered about the room,
but bitter draughts came in beneath the door.

"An open fire's of no use; I thought about getting a stove," he said,
and paused with a dreary smile. "It's lucky I didn't send the order!"

"You may need it yet," Charnock replied. "Somehow we'll put the rails
down in time."

Festing did not answer and picked up a newspaper. He did not want to
read, but could not sleep, although he was very tired, and felt he
must have some relief from his anxious thoughts. The newspaper was a
/Colonist/ that had left Victoria some days before, and he read it
methodically from the first column, trying to fix his attention on
things that had happened in remote mining settlements and market
reports. His efforts were mechanical, but he long afterwards
remembered what he read and how he dully followed the arguments in an
article on political reform. Indeed, when he saw the /Colonist/ his
imagination carried him back to the log-walled hut, and he felt
something of the dazed hopelessness that blunted his senses then.

In the meantime, Charnock, half asleep, lounged with his legs
stretched out to the fire. The logs snapped and a fitful wind stirred
the tops of the pines. Now and then some snow fell from a branch and a
loose roofing shingle rattled, but by degrees the sounds died away.
Everything was strangely quiet, except for the roar of the river,
which had got more distinct. Charnock shivered and felt a puzzling
tension. It was often calm at night, particularly in hard frost, but
he felt as if something was going to happen. Looking up, he saw
Festing nod with his eyes half shut, and felt for his tobacco.

While he cut the plug, the silence was broken. There was a humming in
the pine tops and light branches began to toss. The draught from the
door got stronger, but did not bite as keenly, and it sounded as if
the snow was falling from the trees. Then some slipped down the roof,
and getting up with tingling nerves, he opened the door. All the trees
were rustling and waves of sound came up the valley. The sound
swelled, the air felt damp, and a drop of moisture from the roof
splashed upon his head. He drew a deep breath of relief, for a warm
wind from the Pacific was roaring through the defile. Then Festing
dropped the newspaper.

"Why have you opened the door?" he asked drowsily, and got up with a
jerk as the draught swept the smoke about the room.

"A Chinook!" he exclaimed, and ran to the door. "We'll have rain and
warmth while it blows."

"It's great!" said Charnock hoarsely. "We are through the worst!" Then
he caught Festing's arm and laughed. "Say something wise, partner; I
want to shout and dance."

"You had better go to bed. It will be thawing hard to-morrow, and
there's much to be done. A Chinook doesn't last long in the
mountains."

"This Chinook is going to last until we put the rails down," Charnock
replied.



CHAPTER XXV

THE THAW

When Festing went out at daybreak the air was soft, and drops from the
wet pines fell into the honeycombed snow. The surface was turning to
slush, but he knew it would wear down into a slippery mass on which
the logs would run. This was fortunate, because he doubted if labor
could be usefully employed upon the stones just yet. For a few moments
he pondered the matter and listened to the river's turmoil. The deep,
booming note was sharper, water splashed noisily in the gullies, and
there was a ringing crash as an ice-floe broke upon a rock. Then he
turned as Charnock came up.

"Which is it--logs or stones?" the latter asked.

"Logs, I think; we can handle them easily," Festing replied. "The
other job is urgent, but the thaw has only begun, and when the ground
gets properly soft we'll do twice as much as we could now. Still,
there's a risk. We could make some progress with the track, and the
warm spell mayn't last."

"Take the risk," said Charnock with a laugh. "There's not much fun in
playing for safety, and you don't get far that way, while when you try
to foresee things you generally see them wrong. But let's be
practical! As soon as the ground is soft enough we'll ask leave to
hire half the gravel gang. That will make friends of the opposition
and won't put up our wages bill. If you double your helpers, you halve
the working hours."

"Obviously. But you have to pay the larger number all at once. Where's
the money coming from?"

"From the head contractor. We'll try to make Norton sign for an
interim payment. Let's go and see him."

Festing was doubtful, but they found Norton, the contractor's
engineer, more compliant than he hoped.

"I suppose you are entitled to ask for a sum on account, but I'd take
some responsibility in allowing the demand," he said. "Why did you
come to me now?"

"We want to be just," Charnock answered modestly. "At present, there's
no prospect of our finishing the work we ask the money for."

"It doesn't go much beyond a prospect yet," Norton rejoined. "However,
I'll help you if I can, and will see what Kerr thinks. He's the man we
have both to satisfy in the end."

They went to work up the hill in the melting snow, and soon their
clothes were dripping and their long boots soaked. At first, the logs
vanished in the drifts through which they tried to roll them, and the
horses slipped and floundered in the slush, but this flowed away and
left a harder layer that was presently beaten firm. The surface turned
black and compressed into ice, and before long rows of heavy logs
plunged down the skids. Every moment must be turned to good account,
and Festing stopped and went down reluctantly when Kerr sent for him.

"I've seen Norton and he thinks we ought to help you out," Kerr
remarked. "Though he argues from single instances, his judgment's
often good, and he seems convinced you can be trusted because you
saved a skip of his. Of course, I had my opinion; but as he represents
the contractor you are working for, I couldn't urge him."

"Thanks!" said Festing. "I wish I'd brought Charnock; he'd deal with
this better."

Kerr laughed. "Your partner has some talents and seems to have made
Norton and my storekeepers his friends. If he hadn't, there might have
been trouble about certain irregularities. However, you can have the
gravel gang if I'm forced to lay the boys off, and as soon as we can
run the train over the repaired track you'll get your cheque."

Festing went away, feeling satisfied, but not without some anxiety. He
could not urge Norton to go farther than his employer would approve,
and the payment agreed upon was small. Besides, if the frost returned
before he had made the track secure, he would have spent enough money
in extra wages to prevent his going on, and should this happen it
might be difficult to obtain payment for other work already completed.
He would be at the mercy of Norton's employer, who might contend that
by throwing up his contract he had forfeited his claim. It was obvious
that he must make the utmost use of every hour of open weather, and
for the rest of the day he worked with a stubborn energy that
conquered fatigue.

For a time, the logs went screaming and grinding down the skids, but
darkness made launching them dangerous, and they could not light the
lumber road on the hill. They worked in the dark, rolling out the sawn
trunks from among the brush and melting snow until there was room to
hook on the team. Then the driver, walking by his horses' heads, felt
with his feet for the hollowed track, and losing it now and then
embedded his load in snow. Then he called for help, and men with
cantpoles laboriously hove the ponderous mass back to the road.

The work was worse on the inclines, where the logs ran smoothly and
there was a risk of their overtaking the horses. Rain had begun to
fall and one could not see the obstacles, but there were pitches where
one must go fast in order to keep in front of the dangerous loads. But
risks must be run in lumbering, and Festing felt that rashness was
justified. Speed was the thing that counted most.

When supper time drew near, men and horses were worn out, and Festing
knew that if he urged the former to continue he could not do much
without the teams. There were, however, a few logs he meant to haul to
the skidway before he stopped, and he had some misgivings when he
started with the last. It was an unusually large trunk, and the tired
horses floundered as they tightened the chain. Thawing snow when
beaten hard is as slippery as ice, but the animals kept their feet and
the mass began to move. Festing got a firm grip on the near horse's
bridle and plodded forward cautiously, with the rain in his face when
he crossed the openings in the wood. The snow reflected a puzzling
glimmer, but the darkness was thick among the trees, and drops from
the shaking branches fell into his eyes. Turning his hat-brim down, he
felt for the edge of the trail.

By and by he stopped at the top of a descent. The gray snow looked all
the same, and the hollow track vanished a few yards in front; the rows
of trunks had faded into a vague dark mass, and the branches met
overhead in a thick canopy. The horses were big, valuable Percherons,
but they were exhausted and stood slackly, with steam rising from
their foam-flecked coats. Festing did not like the look of the dip,
and knew the trees grew close upon the track at the bottom, but he
must go down, and shouted to the hesitating animals.

They moved faster; the log grinding heavily across the snow behind.
Then the strain on the chain slackened, and he dragged at the bridle
as he began to run. The log could not be stopped now; it was moving
faster than he had thought, and all that he could do was to keep the
team in front. His feet slipped on the icy trail, and the horses
floundered, but they knew the danger and broke into a clumsy trot. It
was hard to keep up, but Festing must hold them to the track and steer
them round a bend ahead.

The log lurched noisily across lumps and hollows, the chain made a
harsh clank, and the wood echoed the thud of heavy hoofs. Festing ran
his best, and imagined that he was running for the horses' lives and
perhaps for his. He durst not look round, and could only guess where
the log was by the noise. The blurred trees rolled back to him in a
thick dark mass, but he thought the gap he followed got narrower
ahead. This was, no doubt, the awkward spot where the trunks closed on
the track, and there was a corner. He must go on and trust to luck for
getting round.

In a few moments he was almost at the corner, and although it was hard
to see, thought he distinguished a break in the dark wall of trees.
One must keep to the inside, on the right; but there was very little
room, and if he miscalculated, he or the horses would collide with a
trunk. He smashed through a bush that caught his foot, but his hold
upon the bridle saved him from a fall. It looked as if he had left the
track and was plunging into the wood. Then a black trunk became
detached from the rest, apparently straight in front. He did not mean
to let go, although he might be crushed between the horse's shoulder
and the tree, and drew as close as possible to the animal. Something
brushed his coat, he felt a button torn off, but the tree was passed.
He knew where he was now, and thrusting hard against the horse urged
the animal towards the other side of the road. The log ran into soft
snow and slowed; there was more room here and the steepest pitch was
behind. A few minutes later, he reached the top of the skids and sat
down on the log, breathing fast and feeling badly shaken.

He frowned as he thought there was no physical reason he should feel
shaken. He was used to strenuous effort, and danger could not be
avoided when one engaged in construction work. It was mental strain
that was wearing him out; the constant endeavor to finish a task in
less than the necessary time. Want of money was, however, the main
cause of his difficulties, and when he had got his cheque it would be
possible to take things easier. Comforting himself with this
reflection, he got up and led the horses down-hill.

The clang of hammers and rattle of shovels rose from the gorge,
sharply distinct at times, but melting when the throb of the river
swelled and a gust roared among the trees. A dark skeleton of steel
that stood out against pulsating flame, with blurred reflections
below, marked the central pier of the bridge; the line of track was
picked out by twinkling fires. Then the scream of a whistle pierced
the sound and the lights went out. The men were going back to the
bunk-house and Festing envied them. Their work was finished for the
day and they could rest, free from care, until the whistle roused them
to begin again. Many were, no doubt, tired, but that was man's common
lot, and muscular fatigue in moderation was no hardship. The strain
came when one had to make the dollars go round and see that every
effort paid its cost. Among the mountains, the cost was high.

Charnock joined him when he was grooming the horses in the rude
stable, because the teams must be cared for before the men thought of
food. Supper was ready when they went in, and when they had eaten they
sat by the hearth, drying their damp clothes and enjoying the warmth.
They had scarcely spoken to one another during the day; as a rule, it
was only after supper one could indulge in talk.

Presently Charnock took his pipe from his mouth. "It's luxuriously
warm, but one can't expect the Chinook to last. I imagine we'll have
some use for a stove after all."

"We're not out of danger yet," Festing replied. "Norton's cheque has
still to be earned, but I begin to feel hopeful. If we can hold out
for a few more days, I think we'll turn the corner. Anyhow, the plan
you made prevents any trouble from Wilkinson for a time. Do you think
he has had enough and will leave us alone?"

"I can't tell, but it doesn't matter much. We mustn't exaggerate the
fellow's importance; he's a very poor sample of the theatrical
villain. Besides, I imagine you seldom meet the latter in real life;
it's an unnecessary part."

"You mean we're up against enough without a plotting antagonist? Well,
I must agree. Considering the weather--"

Charnock stopped him with a smile. "I don't mean the weather, though
one can't leave that out. In a new country, man must make the best
fight he can against Nature; but she's not his worst enemy. It's our
passions, our virtues sometimes, that lead us into a coil. Looks as if
they didn't want much help from outside."

"That kind of speculation's not much in my line."

"Just so. You're what you call practical, and your mind runs upon the
number of yards of rockwork you can put up in a day or the logs you
can cut. Very useful, but it doesn't take you far enough. In fact, if
you had thought more about other matters, you wouldn't be here now.
Nor would I."

"I'm not sure I see your drift," said Festing impatiently. "What's
your explanation for our being here?"

Charnock's eyes twinkled. "If you want the truth, it's because you're
something of an obstinate ass. Wilkinson had really nothing to do with
it, and the weather hasn't much. Your pride brought you and keeps you.
You took the wrong line with Helen, and then, knowing you were wrong,
couldn't force yourself to accept her help. However, I'll admit that
we are a pair of fools. I could have spent a lazy winter at the
homestead if I'd liked."

"You came to look for me," Festing remarked with feeling.

"I did, but stayed to please myself. Thought I'd show Sadie what I
could do; felt virtuous about it at the time, but begin to suspect
that vanity pushed me on. Sadie would, no doubt, sooner have me safe
at home. Anyhow, I think I've proved my argument--we're here, doing
unthinkable things, freezing, sweating, getting thin, because of our
own stupidity."

"In a way, that is so," Festing agreed. "Still, I can't go back until
I have finished this job."

"Perhaps you had better not," said Charnock dryly. "I imagine you
wouldn't be easy to live with it you felt you had come home because
you had failed. You might make good resolutions, but the thing would
spoil your temper all the same. The pinch comes when you try to carry
good resolutions out."

Festing got up and threw fresh wood on the fire. "If you have finished
philosophizing, we'll talk about something else."

"I'm not going to talk about logs and wages," Charnock replied.

"Very well. You haven't told me much about Wilkinson. He seems a
clever rascal. Do you think we have ground for being afraid of him?"

"I don't imagine he'd run much risk or make a sacrifice for the sake
of getting his revenge; that kind of thing isn't often done by normal
people. All the same, he doesn't like us, and if he found he could do
us an injury without much trouble, I dare say he'd seize the chance.
On the whole, it might be prudent to watch him. Now we'll let the
matter go."

Festing nodded, and they lounged in silence by the snapping fire.

Next morning they got to work upon the track, and on the following
afternoon, when the thaw had gone far enough into the ground, Charnock
went for the gravel gang. The men came willingly, although Wilkinson
and the foreman did not appear, and with the connivance of one
Charnock obtained several of the company's blast-lamps. They worked
well, and when they went away Festing was satisfied with what they had
done. He imagined that Kerr and Norton had put themselves to some
inconvenience in order to let him have the gang, and for the next two
or three days he redoubled his efforts. The strain was getting
unbearable, but the thaw would not last, and he must finish all the
work the frost would delay while he could get the men. When he
dismissed his helpers, they parted on friendly terms; but his look was
grave that evening when he made up his accounts.

The wages had been a heavy drain, and he could not meet his
storekeeper's bills unless he got his cheque. The defective
underpinning had, however, been replaced or strengthened, and he
expected that Kerr would test it soon. If the work did not pass the
test, he would be ruined, and would, moreover, have involved Charnock
in a serious loss.

It was about the middle of the morning when he stood with Kerr and his
partner beside the mended tract. Bright sunshine touched the hillside,
leaving the gorge in shadow, and the air was clear and cold. The snow
had gone for a few hundred feet above the rails; the pines stood out
sharply from the dark background, and the hollows in the glittering
slopes beyond were marked by lines of soft-blue shade. Festing thought
a change was coming, and he had not finished the track too soon.

By and by a plume of smoke rose above the trees and something twinkled
in an opening. A rhythmic snorting and a rumble pierced the throb of
the river, and Kerr looked up the track.

"The engineer's bringing her along fast. Shall I flag him to snub her
and shut the throttle before he runs across the new stuff?"

"No," said Festing quietly. "It won't be needful."

"The work hasn't had much time to settle, and a locomotive using steam
hits the rails harder than when she's running loose."

"We don't want our money until it's earned, and you'll have to haul
heavy loads up the grade when the regular traffic begins."

"In the meantime, I'm not thinking about the rest, but about the
gravel train."

"The track will stand," said Festing, in a steady voice.

The train came on; the long, low-sided cars rocking and banging down
the incline. Small figures jolted up and down on the gravel, and at
the far end the big plow flashed in the sun. The front of the engine
got larger, and Festing fixed his eyes upon the rockwork he had built
among the piles. All that could be done had been done; he had not
spared money or labor, for Charnock had agreed that the job must
stand. It was, no doubt, exaggerated sentiment, for he was highly
strung, but he felt that he had staked his wife's respect and his
future happiness on his work.

The ground shook, and flying fragments of ballast beat upon his
turned-down hat; there was a deafening roar as the cars jolted past,
and he saw the rails spring. Then the wind that buffeted him changed
to eddying puffs, the noise receded, and he lifted his bent head. The
rockwork stood firm, the ends of the timbers had not moved, and only a
few small heaps of gravel had fallen from the road-bed. Festing felt
that he was trembling, and Kerr put his hand on his arm.

"It's a good job; I'm quite satisfied. If you'll come along to
Norton's office, I'll tell him he can give you an order on
headquarters for your cheque."

"I'll come instead," said Charnock, who turned to Festing. "Go to the
shack and take a smoke. If you come out before I return, I'll stop the
gang."

Half an hour later he found Festing sitting slackly by the fire.

"The order is in the mail-bag and will go out on the first train," he
said. "It's lucky we got it, because we have cut things very fine. I
had a note some days since from the fellow who sends us our stores,
insisting on our settling his bill."

"Then why didn't you tell me?" Festing asked.

Charnock laughed. "I imagined you had enough to bother you, and his
account is big. We couldn't have paid him without going broke, and
wages have first claim. There was a way out, but you had given me
strict orders not to write to Sadie."

"I couldn't have allowed that, but you're a good sort, Bob!"

"Well," said Charnock cheerfully, "it was, so to speak, touch and go;
but we have turned the awkward corner, and I think are going to make
good."



CHAPTER XXVI

A NEW UNDERTAKING

Soon after the rails were laid down the frost returned, and one cold
morning Festing sat in his shack, studying a letter from Helen.
Norton's cheque had helped him to overcome the worst of his
difficulties, things were going better, and Charnock would superintend
the workmen until he was ready to go out. Festing felt that he need
not hurry, and wanted to think.

Helen had written to him before, without any hint of resentment, and
he had told her what he was doing. She knew Bob was his partner, and
no doubt understood what this implied. It was obvious that he had been
wrong in disliking Bob and half suspecting him; besides Helen knew
from the beginning that he had not suspected her, although he had
insisted that she had been imprudent. This ground for difference had
vanished, but he wondered what she thought, and could not gather much
from her letter.

She wrote with apparent good-humor and stated that all was going
satisfactorily at the farm, where, indeed, nothing of importance could
be done until spring. For all that, there was some reserve. A personal
explanation was needed before they could get back to their old
relations of intimate confidence, and he was ready to own his
mistakes. Unfortunately, the explanation must be put off, because
there was one point on which he was still determined, although his
resolve no longer altogether sprang from pride. He must, if possible,
repair his damaged fortunes before he went home. Farming on a proper
scale was expensive work, and Helen's capital was not large. In order
to raise a big crop, one must speculate boldly, and he meant to do so
with his own money.

He saw a danger in staying away too long, but his contract was only
beginning to be profitable. Besides, one thing led to another, and a
number of extras, for which the pay was good, had been added to the
original plans. Then he had been asked to undertake another job and
had arranged to go over the ground with Kerr and Norton that morning.
In a way, he would sooner have left it alone, because it would keep
him longer from home, but the terms offered a strong inducement to
stop. Glancing at his watch, he saw it was nearly time to meet the
engineers.

He found them and Charnock near the half-finished bridge, which
crossed the river obliquely. The track approached its end in a curve
and then stopped where a noisy steam-digger was at work. Between the
machine and the bridge, the hillside fell in a very steep slope to the
water, which rolled in angry turmoil past its foot, and the channel
dividing the bank from the island that supported the central bridge-
pier was deep. Here and there a slab of rock projected from the slope,
but, for the most part, the latter consisted of small stones and soil.
The surface was now frozen beneath a thin crust of snow and the pines
were white.

"You know roughly what we want," said Kerr. "If you'll come along, you
can look at the shot-holes we made to test the ground. Then I'll show
you a car-load of the rock we want to use, but it's largely a lumber
job and that's why we thought of offering it you. You have some good
choppers besides the teams and plant required."

They climbed about the bank by dangerous paths, and then stopped at
the end of the bridge.

"The thing can be done, but it will only make a temporary job,"
Festing remarked. "You will have to do it again, properly, in a year
or two."

"That the Company's business," Kerr replied. "As soon as we start the
traffic improvements can be paid for out of revenue instead of piling
up construction costs."

"You can imagine the cost if we cut back the hill far enough to ease
the curve and lay the track on solid ground," Norton interposed. "The
half-measure of scooping out a shallow road-bed and dumping the stuff
on the incline is ruled out, because the spoil wouldn't lie and the
river would sweep the dirt away. If we filled up the channel with
rock, we'd turn the current on the bridge-pier."

Then Charnock said something and Festing let them talk while he looked
about. Since a temporary job was required, he thought the plan was
perhaps the best that could be used. It called for a timber framework,
beginning about half-way up the bank, although its height would vary
with the ground. The gaps between the frames would be faced with
rockwork and then filled with rubble in order to make a bed for the
rails on top.

"If you will come to the office, I'll show you the detailed drawings,"
Norton said presently, and the others followed him.

When they reached the office Festing studied the drawings, and then
giving them to Charnock, lighted his pipe. He wanted to undertake the
contract, but hesitated. The work already on his hands would occupy
him for some time, and a lengthy absence might prejudice him with
Helen. Besides, he had taken risks enough and a new venture might
prove a rash challenge to fortune; one could not foresee all the
difficulties that might arise. But, if he succeeded, he would go home
with the means to resume his farming on a profitable scale. Then he
saw Charnock looking at him and knew he would agree to his decision.
Festing put down his pipe and knitted his brows.

"Well?" said Charnock.

Festing got up with a quick, resolute movement, and turned to Norton.

"We'll undertake the job."

"That's all right," said Norton. "I'll get the papers drawn up and
send them over for you to sign."

They went out, and as they climbed the hill Charnock remarked: "This
may turn out a big thing, partner. Are you going home before we
start?"

Festing looked up sharply, with a disturbed air. "No. To begin with,
I've got to be about because the thing is big."

"Then, as matters are going smoothly now, I'll leave you for a week."

"I can manage for a week and one of us must stay. But why d'you want
to leave?"

"On the whole, I think one of us had better go," Charnock answered
with some dryness. "If you don't mind, I'll get off to-morrow."

He started next morning, in the caboose of a returning supply train,
and Festing, who went to see him off, stood for a few minutes on the
snowy track while the rattle of wheels and snorting of the locomotive
died away. Bob had made a curious remark when he talked about going,
and Festing wondered what he meant, but dismissed the matter and went
back to his work.

It was a bitter afternoon when Charnock got down at the little prairie
station that was marked by a water-tank, the agent's shack, and the
lower frames of three unfinished grain elevators. He hired a rig at
the livery stable, and borrowing a fur-robe started on his drive
across the plain. The landscape was empty and featureless except for
the gray smears of distant bluffs. Nothing moved on the white expanse,
and there was no sound but the measured thud of the horses' feet; the
air was still and keen with frost. When the cluster of wooden houses
sank behind a gradual rise, the wavy, blue riband of the trail was the
only sign of human activity in the frozen wilderness.

The snowfall, however, is generally light on the Western plains, and
the trail was good. Its smooth surface was dusty rather than slippery
and the team went fast. Everything was different from the varied
grandeur of the mountains; the eye found no point to rest upon, and
the level snow emphasized the loneliness. In spite of the thick
driving-robe, the cold bit through Charnock's worn-out clothes, but he
was conscious of a strange and almost poignant satisfaction. This was
not because he was at heart still something of a sybarite and had
borne many hardships on the railroad; he was going home and in an hour
or two Sadie would welcome him. It was curious, but when he married
Sadie he had not thought she could inspire him with the feeling he had
now. But he had learned her value and understood something of what she
had done for him.

When it got dark he urged the horses and tried to control his
impatience. Later he felt his heart beat as he drove round the corner
of a shadowy bluff and saw his home-lights twinkle across the snow. A
hired man came out to take the team, he got down, nearly too numbed to
move, and as he stumbled up the steps Sadie met him with a cry of
delight. She drew him in and when he stood, half-dazed by the
brightness and change of temperature, in the well-warmed room, she
took her arm from round his neck and moved back a pace or two.

Charnock's skin-coat was ragged, his mittens were tattered, and his
long boots badly worn. He looked tired and unkempt, but Sadie's eyes
were soft as she studied him.

"Your face is very thin, but I don't like it less," she said. "You
haven't come back the same, Bob; I think you have grown."

"Perhaps the pains account for the thinness," Charnock answered with a
smile. "Anyway, you ought to be satisfied, because you tried to make
me grow, and in a sense I was very small when I left you. But we won't
be sentimental and I want to change my clothes."

He found fresh clothes ready, and when he came back his slippers,
pipe, and a recent newspaper occupied their usual place. Sitting down
with a smile of content, he lazily looked about.

"This is remarkably nice," he said. "The curious thing is that I feel
as if I'd only left the house five minutes since. Everything I want is
waiting, although you didn't know I was coming."

"I knew you would come some day, and come like this, without letting
me know."

"And so you kept everything ready?" Charnock rejoined. "Well, I
imagine that's significant! But you see, I didn't know I could leave
camp until the day before I started, and then it looked as if I'd get
here as soon as the mail."

Sadie gave him a quick glance. "Then something happened that made you
leave?"

"Something did happen, but nothing bad. However, it's a long story and
I've not had much to eat."

"Supper will be ready in five minutes, and I've got something that you
like."

"Ah!" said Charnock, "I suppose that means you kept the thing I like
ready, too?"

They talked about matters of no importance until the meal was over,
and then Sadie made him sit down by the stove and light his pipe.

"Now," she said, "you can tell me all you did at the construction
camp, and leave nothing out."

Charnock was frank. He knew Sadie understood him, perhaps better than
he understood himself, and if his narrative gave her any pleasure, he
thought she deserved it. Moreover, when he wanted he talked rather
well, making his meaning clear without saying too much. When he
finished she gave him a level glance.

"You're surely a bigger man, Bob! I see that, not only by what you
have done but by what you think."

"Well," said Charnock, twinkling, "I'm glad you're satisfied, but
you'll probably find out that there's room for improvement yet."

"I suppose you must joke," Sadie rejoined with mild reproof. "But what
about Festing? Doesn't he meant to come back until the job's
finished?"

"So far as I could gather, he does not. I tried tactfully to persuade
him he was acting like a fool and imagine he sees a glimmer of the
truth. All the same, he's obstinate."

Sadie was silent for a minute, knitting her brows, and then looked up.

"You have only three days; I suppose I mustn't keep you after that?"

"It mightn't be prudent. If I stay longer, I shall, no doubt, feel
unequal to going back at all. My industrious fit's very recent and
good resolutions fail."

"Pshaw!" said Sadie. "Try to be serious. I must see Helen to-morrow
and can't take you. She may have a message for her husband."

"Couldn't she write the message, if you went after I had gone?"

"NO," said Sadie firmly. "She must send it now."

Charnock looked hard at her and nodded. "Well, perhaps it's a good
plan. Meddling is sometimes dangerous, but one can trust you."

Sadie, wrapped in furs, drove across the prairie next afternoon, and
found Helen at home. The latter looked rather forlorn and dispirited,
and Sadie felt that she had undertaken a delicate task.

"Bob has come home for three days," she said by and by. "He can't stop
longer, but I thought you'd like to know how they are getting on with
their contract."

"Stephen writes to me," Helen replied with a hint of sharpness.

"I guess he does," Sadie agreed. "Still, from what Bob says, they
haven't much time for letters, and he talked to me about the work all
last evening. He could leave when Stephen couldn't because he's the
junior partner and doesn't know much about railroading yet."

Helen smiled, rather curiously. "Do you feel you must explain why your
husband came home and mine did not?"

For a moment or two Sadie hesitated. It looked as if she had not begun
well, but she braced herself. If her tact were faulty, she would try
frankness.

"Yes," she said; "in a way that was what I did come to explain, though
it's difficult. In the first place, I know why Stephen couldn't come."

Helen waited, and then, as Sadie seemed to need some encouragement,
said, "Very well. I think I'd like to be convinced."

"The reason Bob came and Stephen stayed begins with the difference
between them. We know them both, and I want to state that I'm quite
satisfied with Bob. That had to be said, and now we'll let it go. But
they are different. Bob will work for an object; for dollars, to feel
he's making good, or to please me. Your husband must work, whether he
had an object or not, because that's the kind of man he is."

"Bob's way is easier understood," Helen rejoined. "Besides, Stephen is
working for money enough to farm again on the old large scale."

"He is; but you don't understand yet, and I want to show you why he
feels he has got to farm. Stephen's the kind we have most use for in
this country. In fact, he's my kind; perhaps I know him better than
you. Give him a patch of pine-scrub or a bit of poor soil in a sand-
belt and he'd feel it his duty to cultivate it, no matter how much
work it cost. Show him good wheat land lying vacant or rocks that
block a railroad, and he won't rest till he starts the gang-plow or
gets to work with giant-powder. He can't help it; the thing's born in
him. Like liquor or gambling, only cleaner!"

"But when such a man marries----"

"What about his wife? Well, she must help all she can or stand out and
let him work alone. It's a sure thing she can't stop him."

Helen pondered, and then remarked: "Stephen is not your kind, as you
said. You wanted to leave the prairie and live in a town."

"I certainly did, but I didn't know myself. Though I wanted to meet
smart people and wear smart clothes, to push Bob on and see him make
his mark in big business or perhaps in politics. Now I know I really
wanted power; to order folks about and get things done."

"You found you must give up your ambitions."

"I saw they had to be altered," Sadie replied. "But when you can't get
things done by others, you can do them, in a smaller way, yourself,
and I find I can be satisfied with running a prairie farm as it ought
to be run." She paused and resumed with a soft laugh: "Looks as if
neither of us was fixed quite as we like. I have a husband who must be
hustled; you want to hold yours back. Well, I guess we can't change
that; we must take the boys for what they are and make allowances.
Besides, your man's fine energy is perhaps the best thing he has."

Helen was somewhat moved. Sadie's rude philosophy was founded on
truth, and having made sacrifices, she had a right to preach. After
all, to dull the fine edge of Stephen's energy would be an unworthy
action and perhaps dangerous. Helen had been jealous of his farm, but
admitted that she might have had worse rivals.

"Do you know 'The Sons of Martha'?" she asked and recited a verse.

"It's great," said Sadie simply. "That man has our folks placed. Well,
I don't read much poetry, but there's a piece of Whitman's I like.
When I watch an ox-team break the first furrow in virgin soil, or a
construction train, loaded with new steel, go by, I hear him calling:
'Pioneers! Oh, Pioneers!' "

There was silence for a few moments, and then Sadie leaned forward. "I
don't know if I've said enough, or said too much, but Bob goes back in
three days and could take a message."

The color crept into Helen's face, and her look was strangely soft.

"Let him tell Stephen to finish his work as well as he can; say I
understand."



CHAPTER XXVII

SNOW

Tossing snowflakes filled the air, and although it was three o'clock
in the afternoon the light was fading, when Charnock opened the door
of the caboose. A bitter wind rushed past him and eddied about the
car, making the stove crackle. The iron was red-hot in places and a
fierce twinkle shone out beneath the rattling door. Half-seen men lay
in the bunks along the shadowy wall, tools jingled upon the throbbing
boards, but the motion was gentler than usual and the wheels churned
softly instead of hammering.

"Is she going to make it?" somebody asked.

Charnock leaned out of the door. Black smoke streamed about the cars
and he heard a heavy snorting some distance off, but the caboose
lurched slowly along the uneven track. The construction train was
climbing a steep grade, the driving wheels slipped and he doubted if
the locomotive could reach the summit, from which the line ran down to
the camp. Dim pines, hardly distinguishable from the white hillside,
drifted past; a shapeless rack loomed up and slowly drew abreast. It
was some moments before Charnock lost it in the tossing white haze.

"I don't know if she'll make it or not, but rather think she won't,"
he said.

"Then come in and shut the blamed door," another growled. "No need to
worry about it, anyhow! Pay's as good for stopping in the caboose as
for humping rails in the snow."

"You're luckier than me in that way," Charnock answered as he shut the
door. "There are some drawbacks to being your own boss. When you can't
get to work it's comforting to know that somebody else has to find the
dollars and put up the hash."

He shivered as he sat down on a box. The snow was obviously deep and
things would be unpleasant at the camp, but Festing would not let this
interfere with work. Charnock thought he had been foolish to come
back, but Festing expected him and Sadie agreed that he ought to go.
It was something of an effort to live up to the standards of such a
partner and such a wife. Sadie was a very good sort, better than he
deserved, but he would not have minded it if she were not quite so
anxious about his moral welfare. Besides, after the comfort of the
homestead, the caboose jarred. It smelt of acrid soft-coal smoke, the
air was full of dust, and rubbish jolted about the floor. Then
Charnock grinned as he admitted that he had not expected to find the
path of virtue smooth.

His reflections were rudely disturbed, for a violent jolt threw him
off the box. The boards he fell upon no longer throbbed, and it was
evident that the train had stopped. The others laughed as he got up.

"Loco's hit a big drift," said one. "I guess the engineer won't butt
her through."

"He'll surely try; Jake hates to be beat," another remarked, and the
caboose began to shake as the train ran backwards down the line.

A minute or two later there was a savage jerk and a furious snorting.
The caboose rolled ahead again, faster than before, for the wheels had
cut a channel through the snow, and somebody said, "Watch out! Hold
tight when she jumps!"

The speed slackened, a jarring crash ran backwards along the train,
and the caboose tilted as if the wheels had left the rails. Tools and
sacks of provisions rolled across the inclined floor, which suddenly
sank to a level, and a man who had fallen from his bunk got up and
opened the door.

"She's bedded in good and fast. Guess Jake will be satisfied now," he
said, and laughed when a whistle rang through the snow. "Nobody could
hear that a mile ahead, and as she's not over the divide it's some way
to camp. I reckon we'll stop here until they dig us out."

Soon afterwards some more men came in, covered with snow. Then the
door was shut, the stove filled and a lamp lighted, and Charnock
resigned himself to spending another night in the caboose. After all,
it was as warm as the shack, and he reflected with some amusement that
Festing probably did not expect him to be punctual. The latter knew
his habits, and no doubt imagined that he would find the comfort of
the homestead seductive. But Festing did not know Sadie, who had sent
him back within the promised time. He enjoyed his supper and slept
well afterwards. In fact, he did not waken until a stinging draught
swept through the caboose and he saw that it was daylight. The door
was open and he heard voices outside. He recognized one as the
foreman's, and presently the fellow came in.

"D'you reckon you're here for good, you blamed hibernating deadbeats?"
he asked the occupants of the bunks. "Turn out and get busy before I
put a move on you!"

The men got up, grumbling, and Charnock buttoned his skin-coat and
jumped down into the snow. He sank to his knees, but went deeper
before he reached the engine, round which a gang of men were at work
with shovels. It was not his business to help them and he floundered
on up the track they had made until he crossed the summit and saw the
bridge in the distance. Half an hour afterwards he met Festing and
thought he looked surprised.

"You didn't come with the boys to dig us out," Charnock remarked.

"No," said Festing. "We knew the train had passed the Butte, and
guessed where she was held up. But I hardly thought--"

"You didn't think I'd be up to time?" Charnock suggested. "Well, it's
remarkable what a good example does!"

"Did you see Helen?"

"Sadie saw her. I understand she was very well and sent you a message.
You're to finish your job and make good--Helen understands."

Festing was silent a moment, and when he looked up his eyes were soft.
"Thank you, Bob! Or perhaps it's Sadie I ought to thank?"

"I wouldn't bother about it. Sadie's fond of meddling," Charnock
answered with some embarrassment. "But will the snow stop the work?"

"Not altogether. We can keep busy on the hill and I'm going up now.
Will you come?"

"Presently," said Charnock, smiling. "Food's a thing you don't seem to
need when you're occupied, but I want my breakfast before I start."

Festing went away, and after a time Charnock joined him on the hill,
where fresh trees had been felled and roughly squared with the ax. Men
and horses were working hard, but Charnock stopped for a minute or two
before he began. The snow was different from the thin covering that
scarcely hid the short grass on the plains. The pines were glittering
white pyramids, with branches that bent beneath their load, and there
were no inequalities on the drop to the river. Every projection was
leveled up, the hollows were filled, and the snow ran unbroken among
the trunks in a smooth white sheet. It was not drying and getting
powdery, because the frost was not very keen, and he imagined that
Festing meant to get as much lumber as possible down while the surface
could be beaten into a smooth track.

"You might take Gordon's team and break a trail by hauling the lighter
pieces to the top," Festing said. "They'll run down when they have
worn a chute, but we'll have some trouble man-handling the first."

Charnock nodded as he glanced over the edge of the narrow tableland.
The descent was not steep near the top, but farther on it dropped
precipitously to the water, crossing the curve by the bridge.

"How will you stop the heavy stuff going into the river?" he asked.

Festing indicated two men moving about the waterside. They looked
curiously stumpy with their legs buried in the snow.

"I sent them to make a chain fast to the rocks. We'll shackle up the
first logs we run down and make a lumber pond. A few may shoot across
the top, but we'll see what must be done as we get on."

Charnock hooked the chain round the smallest log he could find and
started the horses. They slipped and floundered as they plodded
through the soft snow. Sometimes the log ran for a few yards, crushing
down the surface, but it often sank overhead and the team struggled
hard to drag it out. For all that, Charnock reached the top of the
slope, and turning back, widened the trail he had made. The next log
ran easier, although it gave him trouble, but when he stopped at noon
he had beaten down a road.

When they started again he left the team to somebody else and joined
the men who were clearing out a trough down the hill. This was harder
work, but the small contractor finds it pays to give his men a lead
instead of orders, and for a time Charnock used the shovel and his
feet. Then Festing said they had better move a few logs as far as they
would go, and they worked the first trunk down hill with handspikes
and tackles. The lumber scored the bottom of the trough and would not
run, and they struggled through the banked-up snow, lifting the heavy
mass when it sank. Now and then they fixed the tackle to a tree and
dragged the log across short skids thrust under its end, and at length
launched it from the brow of the steeper pitch.

It plunged down some distance, but stopped again, half buried in loose
snow, and they scrambled after it, clinging to small trees. Then the
work got dangerous. One could scarcely stand on the steep bank, and
when the log started it rather leaped than slid. Spikes, torn from the
men's hands, shot into the air, and those in front sprang back for
their lives, but the mass seldom went far before loose snow brought it
up and the struggle with the levers began again. At last, it slipped
from a hummock and glided slowly down, crumpling the snow in front,
while a man, clinging to the butt and shouting hoarse jokes, trailed
down the track behind.

Moving the next was easier, and those that followed ran without much
help for most of the way, while when dark came the bank at the top was
empty and there was a pile of logs held up by the chain at the
waterside. Their descent had worn the channel smooth, and it was now
difficult to stop them going too far. In a day or two Festing brought
the most part of his material to the spot where it would be used, and
got ready to put up the frames.

Stinging frost set in, and on the morning they cleared the ground for
the first post Charnock felt daunted as he beat his numbed hands. The
sky was clear; a hard, dazzling blue, against which the white peaks
were silhouetted with every ridge and pinnacle in sharp outline. They
twinkled like steel in places, but there were patches of delicate
gray, and here and there a dark rock broke through its covering. The
bottom of the gorge was soft blue, and the river a streak of raw
indigo, but there was no touch of warm color in the savage landscape.
The glitter made Charnock's eyes ache and the reflected sunshine
burned his skin.

Some of the construction gangs were laid off, but in places men were
at work. They looked small and feeble on the vast white slope, and a
few plumes of smoke seemed to curl futilely out of the hollow. Frost
and snow defied man's engine power, and the rattle of the machines was
lost in the din the river made. Its channel was full of snow that had
frozen in the honey-combed masses, and the ragged floes broke with a
harsh, ringing crash. Others screamed as they smashed among the rocks
and ground across ledges, while the tall cliffs on the opposite bank
flung the echoes far among the pines. The uproar rose and sank, but
its throbbing note voiced a challenge to human effort, and Charnock
admitted that had the choice been left to him, he would have gone back
to the warm shack and waited for better conditions.

Festing, however, would wait for nothing, and Kerr and Norton were
equally resolute. Just now Festing was clearing away the snow while
three or four men cautiously descended the bank, dragging loads of
branches. A big fire was soon lighted, and when the resinous wood
broke into snapping flame Festing cleared a spot farther on for
another. By and by he scattered the first, the thawed surface was
pierced, and a hole dug. Then with half an hour's savage labor they
got the first big post on end. The next broke the supporting tackle
and a man narrowly escaped when it fell, but they raised it again and
got to work upon the braces. The wood was unseasoned and hard with
frozen sap. Saw and auger would scarcely bite, but somehow they cut
the notches and bored the holes. When the first frame was roughly
stayed Charnock sat down with a breathless laugh.

"I suppose it's the best job we can make and it's up to specification.
Still, when one comes to think of it, the optimism of these railroad
men is remarkable. Green wood and uncovered bolts that will soon work
loose in the rotting pine! If I was an engineer, the thing would
frighten me."

"The track will stand while they want it," Festing answered with an
impatient look. "Long before it gets shaky they'll pull it down."

"Pulling things down is a national habit. A man I met in Winnipeg
bought a nearly new hotel because he thought he could put up a better
building on the site. However, I suppose there's something to be said
for his point of view. Progress implies continuous moving on!"

"It does," said Festing. "While you moralize, the men you ought to put
to work are standing still."

Charnock got up and went off, beating his hands. He noted that there
was a hole in the mittens he had brought from home. This was annoying
because Sadie had given him the mittens. In spite of many
difficulties, they braced the posts securely before they stopped work,
and when supper was over Charnock reluctantly put on his coat. He
wanted to ask Norton something, and when he left the latter's office
came back along a narrow path above the track. After going a short
distance he stopped to look down at the half-finished frames.

The moon had not risen, but a pale glow shone above a gray peak and
the sky was clear. One could not see much in the hollow, but the snow
reflected a faint light. The timbers they had erected rose like a
black skeleton, and after glancing at them, Charnock's eyes were drawn
towards the pile of logs in the pond at the water's edge. A log pond
is generally made in a river, where the stream will carry the trunks
into the containing chains. But Festing had made his on land, using
the snow instead of the current. Charnock could not tell what had
attracted his attention, but stood motionless for a moment or two.

He heard nothing but the roar of the current and the crash of
splintering ice, and could hardly distinguish the logs. Their outline
was blurred and the dark-colored mass melted into a dusky background
of rock and water. Yet he thought something had moved beside the pond.

Then an indistinct object detached itself from the pile. It was
shapeless and he lost it next moment, but it had been visible against
a patch of snow. It was not a man's height, and, so far as he could
see, moved like an animal, but no wild beast would haunt the outskirts
of a noisy construction camp. Since he could not imagine why a man
should crawl about the logs at night, he resolved to satisfy his
curiosity.

This needed caution, and he lay down and rolled himself in the snow.
It stuck to his shaggy skin-coat, and remembering that some drills had
been left near the track he felt about until he found one. The short
steel bar was easy to carry and might be useful. The next thing was to
get down without being seen, and he crept to the log-slide and sitting
down let himself go. His coat rolled up and acted like a brake, but he
reached and shot over the top of the last pitch. Next moment he struck
the logs at the bottom with a jar that left him breathless, and he lay
still to recover. His coat was white; indeed, the snow had forced its
way inside his clothes, but he must be careful about his background
and avoid abrupt movements.

Getting on his hands and knees, he crawled along the bottom of the
pile. The logs were not numerous, since some had been used, and when
Charnock reached the end he crouched in the snow and looked about.
Nobody was there and his ears were not of much use because the crash
of ice drowned every other sound. This made silence needless, and he
tried to get between the logs and the water, but found it dangerous.
The chain had sagged with the strain, and the lowest tier was scarcely
a foot from the bank, along which the ice-floes rasped.

He came back and crawled half-way up the pile, meaning to reach the
top, but stopped and lay flat. An object moved along the highest row,
and he knew it was a man. The fellow's figure showed against the sky,
though Charnock imagined he would have been invisible from above. He
waited and felt his heart beat as he clenched the bar. The other did
not seem to know he was watched and Charnock resolved to find out what
he meant to do. He thought of the chain that held the logs; if this
were loosed, the pile would roll into the river and be washed away,
but it would be impossible to slip the fastening toggle while the
links were strained. Still one might be nicked with a hacksaw and left
to break with the shock when the next log ran down the slide. The man,
however, could not get at the chain from the top row.

He came nearer and then stopped abruptly, as if alarmed. Charnock lay
close in the hollow between two logs, but his coat was snowy and it
was possible that the other had noticed the white patch. He turned and
began to move back, not fast but with caution. Charnock felt it was
unthinkable that he should get away, and raising himself, swung the
drill round his head and let it go. It flew over the other man and
vanished without a sound because the turmoil of the water drowned the
splash, but Charnock lost his balance and rolled off the logs. He fell
into the snow, and when he got up the man had gone.

For a few moments he stood still, hesitating and abusing his folly. He
did not know if the fellow had seen the drill fly past or not, but he
had thrown away his weapon, and might have a dangerous antagonist. For
all that, he meant to discover who his antagonist was. Floundering
through the snow, he reached the end of the pile, but found nobody
there. The lumber gang had made a path along the water's edge, but
Charnock could see nobody among the scattered trees. He climbed to the
top of the logs and looked down on the other side, but saw nothing
between the water and the pile.

After this, he felt the fastening of the chain, which did not seem to
have been tampered with, because the toggle was securely fixed across
the strap-link. Then he crept about the pile again, with an
uncomfortable feeling that the other might be lying in wait for him,
but saw nothing suspicious, and there was no use in examining the
trampled snow. By and by he gave up the search and returned to the
path, feeling disturbed. It was impossible to guess what the man had
meant to do, or who he was, but Charnock resolved to watch.



CHAPTER XXVIII

THE LEWIS BOLT

Charnock went back next morning and examined the chain, but found none
of the links or fastenings damaged. This was puzzling, and he wondered
whether the man he had seen, knowing that somebody was about, had
stolen away without beginning what he came to do. The explanation was
plausible, but left Charnock uncertain who the fellow was. He
suspected Wilkinson, but only because he could think of nobody else
with any ground for wishing to do him or Festing an injury.

On the whole, he thought it better not to tell Festing. It was rather
an improbable story, and Stephen might think him imaginative, but he
would watch and try to catch the fellow if he came again. For a week,
he made excuses for going out after supper, and Festing did not object
although he looked surprised, but he saw nothing and it was very cold
lurking about the track. Moreover he was generally tired after his
day's hard work, and was glad to give up the search.

Some time later, he returned from Norton's office one night and had
reached the track when he saw a man coming obliquely up the slope.
There was moonlight, and the snow glittered between the shadows of the
trees. Charnock saw the other plainly and drew back into the gloom
along the bank. The fellow did not seem to mind whether he was seen or
not, but Charnock thought he knew his walk and figure, and when he
reached the track set off with the object of overtaking him. The loose
snow dulled his steps, and he was close upon the man when the latter
stopped and turned. Then Charnock saw, without much surprise, that it
was Wilkinson.

"What were you doing down there?" he asked.

"I don't see what that has to do with you," Wilkinson answered coolly.

"The logs in the pond are ours."

Wilkinson looked amused and Charnock tried to control his temper. He
would gain nothing by using force, and thought the other meant to give
him no excuse for doing so.

"You don't imagine I meant to steal your logs!" Wilkinson rejoined.
"They're too large to carry away, and there's no sawmill to buy them
if I sent them down the river."

"That's obvious," said Charnock, who thought it prudent not to hint
that he had seen the fellow lurking about the pond before. For that
matter, he was not certain he had seen Wilkinson.

"You're much more suspicious than you were when I first knew you,"
Wilkinson resumed in a mocking tone.

"I was a confiding fool then and trusted my friends. It cost me
something."

"And now you're afraid to let anybody pass your logs in the dark?
Well, caution's useful, but it can be overdone."

"Why did you want to pass the pond?"

"For one thing, because it's the easiest way of getting from the
smithy to the track; then this piece of hillside doesn't belong to
you. However, as I guess you don't claim it, you no doubt reckoned I
meant to play you some shabby trick; turn your logs adrift, for
example?"

"I don't think it's impossible."

Wilkinson laughed. "Well, I might do you an injury if the thing wasn't
difficult, but don't let your suspicions make you ridiculous. If you
feel uneasy, you can watch the pond. Anyhow, the cold's fierce and I'm
going to the bunk-house."

Charnock let him go and returned thoughtfully to the shack. He did not
doubt that Wilkinson had been to the smithy, because one could find
out if he had not, but he felt disturbed. The fellow had somehow
encouraged him to believe he might tamper with the logs; but would
hardly have done so had he meant to set them adrift. He might, of
course, have wanted to keep him uneasy without ground; but suppose it
was a feint, intended to cover the real attack, made at another point?
Charnock determined to be cautious and keep his eyes open.

He saw nothing to cause him fresh anxiety, although he once or twice
visited the pond at night. In the daytime his work absorbed his
attention, for they were now building a lofty frame on the steepest
pitch of the dip. The foot of the longest timber, which was unusually
massive, rested in a socket cut in the rock near the water's edge, and
it cost them a very hard and dangerous day's work to get the log on
end. Indeed, for a few anxious minutes Charnock imagined that the mass
would break the tackles and come down. When fixed, it was nearly
perpendicular, but its top inclined slightly toward the bank, and
Festing sent for Norton and Kerr.

"It's a good post, but I'm not sure we have got spread enough," he
said. "There's not much to resist the outward thrust a heavy train
might cause. Still, I don't see how we could have carried the foot
farther back."

"You'd have to go into the water," Norton agreed. "That would have
meant a coffer dam, and the Company won't stand for expensive extras."

"The ice would have smashed the dam," said Kerr. "The job meets the
plan, which calls for stays to stop the post canting out. Put in an
extra king-tie half-way up and I'll pass your bill and find the
ironwork."

Festing was satisfied with this, and the post was stayed with chains
while they got the braces fixed. This took some days, for the men were
forced to work on dangerous snowy ledges and boards, hung from the
top. Where there was most risk and difficulty Festing went himself,
but he looked anxious.

"It's the worst part of the job and perhaps the most awkward thing
I've done," he said one night. "If the frame came down with the
rockwork filling, it might start the rest and shake some length of
road."

"But there's no reason it should come down," Charnock argued.

"Not in a way, but I'm glad Kerr authorized the extra brace. We'll use
the heaviest stuff we can, and although the fastenings may give some
trouble, we haven't come to them yet. Perhaps I'm getting nervous.
We're up to schedule and doing pretty well, but it will be a relief to
get the contract finished."

Charnock told him about Wilkinson, and he looked thoughtful.

"I can't see his object, particularly since he left the chain alone.
Of course he may have meant some mischief, but gave it up when he
found you on his track."

"Somehow I don't think that was it," said Charnock, who went to open
the door.

Kerr came in and after a time began to talk about the fastenings for
the main tie-beam.

"As the rock is sound and can be thawed, I think we could use a bolt
on the Lewis plan. Give me some paper and I'll make a sketch you can
take to the smith."

Charnock examined the drawing and noted that the holding part of the
bolt was shaped like the letter Y, except that the stalk was split. A
wedge was sketched to fit the split, and would obviously expand the
upper arms to fit tightly into a fan-shaped hole with a narrow mouth.

"I've not seen this kind of fastening before," he said. "It ought to
grip well, but something depends upon the wedge."

Kerr nodded. "The wedge must be properly forged and fit tight, but
there's a cross bolt to stop it backing out. So long as it doesn't
break under the hammer, it can't come loose. Something depends on the
way the hole is cut and the rock, but the stuff you're working is hard
enough."

Next morning Charnock took the drawing to the smith, and calling at
the forge a day or two later, found Wilkinson sitting on a box. He had
brought a pick to be mended and made a few ironical remarks, until the
smith showed Charnock some irons he had forged.

"I guess that's what you want, but I haven't finished the Lewis yet.
Reckoned I'd wait until I could get a bit of horseshoe iron for the
wedge when the new stores come along."

"What's that bar in the corner?" Charnock asked.

"Steel," said the smith. "A bit off the end would make a wedge, but
you want to be careful you don't overheat the steel in the forge if
it's to stand hammering after. Horseshoe iron's better for your
particular job. Come back in a day or two and I'll have the thing
ready."

Charnock left him and one afternoon soon afterwards helped Festing to
notch and bore the heavy cross-tie to fit the post and the ends of the
timbers it was to hold in place. These were intended to strengthen the
frame, of which the post and tie were the most important members, and
Festing had waited until their other ends were securely fixed. When
the light was fading he beckoned Charnock.

"You might get the Lewis bolt. The smith sent word it's ready and I
want to fasten the tie before we stop."

When Charnock reached the forge the smith was absent, but he blew the
fire until the light flickered about the shop and looked for the bolt.
He found it in a corner and took the wedge to the hearth. It was
properly shaped and slotted for a cross-bolt, but it looked rough and
scaly, and giving the blower a few more strokes he tapped it once or
twice. The scale fell off and the metal looked sound. Then while the
flame spread about the fuel he glanced round the shop. There was no
horseshoe iron, but the bar of steel had recently been cut, and he
thought the wedge had been forged out of its end.

Charnock did not think this mattered much. Festing had urged the smith
to finish the job, and the man knew his business. Since he had been
forced to use steel, he had no doubt taken the necessary precautions.
It was dark when Charnock got back to the frame, but a blast-lamp
threw out a dazzling glare and he climbed to a beam on which Festing
sat. At the timber's inner end a fire burned on a shelf of rock and a
man was stirring something in an iron pot.

"We're melting lead to fill up the hole, though I don't know if it's
necessary," Festing said. "Have you got the bolt?"

"It's here. He has made it out of steel; the iron he expected hasn't
arrived."

"That's all right. They now use steel for many jobs instead of iron,
and the softer kinds are quite as tough. Anyhow, we can trust the
smith not to burn the metal. Help Black while I get the tie ready for
fastening."

Half an hour later the big cross-beam was in position and Charnock
watched Festing fit the bolt into its fan-shaped socket. He did so
with fastidious care and then standing on the beam swung the hammer a
workman gave him. The blast-lamp roared upon a timber overhead,
throwing down waves of light that flooded the rock face, but the
twinkling brightness rather puzzled the eye. For all that, Festing
struck the wedge squarely and drove it home with a few heavy blows.
Then he fastened the cross-bolt and Charnock filled a ladle with the
melted lead. A blue flame flickered about the cavity as he poured in
the stuff, there was an angry sputtering, and he afterwards found some
holes in his coat. Festing dropped his hammer with a gesture of
satisfaction.

"That's an awkward piece of work finished, and I feel happier now! You
can put out the lamp and quit, boys; I'll mark you up full time."

Then they got down from the frame and went home to supper, earlier
than usual. In the morning they began to build a wall of roughly-cut
stones among the timber, filling in the space behind with rubble; and
kept on until at noon, a day or two later, heavy snow began to fall.
It was impossible to work, and they lounged about the shack, smoking
and reading, all next day. Charnock was thankful for the rest, but
Festing grumbled and now and then walked impatiently to the door. Late
at night the former was wakened by a distant rumbling. It sounded like
thunder, and he called to his comrade.

"What's that? Had we better get up?"

"Sounds like a big snow-slide," said Festing, raising himself in his
bunk. "Won't harm us; shack's on top of the ridge and we're safer here
than anywhere else." He stopped and listened to the swelling roar and
then resumed: "I'm glad we got that frame braced. It's a big slide and
will probably come down the gully near the bridge. They're going to
snowshed that piece of track and we'll haul out the posts if we can't
get on with the other job."

He lay down again, but Charnock waited. This was the first snow-slide
he had heard and he felt awed by the din. Growing in a long crescendo,
it rolled down the hill in a torrent of sound, but by and by he
thought he could distinguish different notes; the crash of trees
carried away by the avalanche and the scream of gravel grinding across
rocky scraps. He could imagine the stones being planed away and the
mass of broken trunks riding on top of the huge white billow.

It was impossible to sit still, and jumping down, he lighted the lamp,
but found it hard to replace the glass. The shack throbbed, the table
on which he put the matches shook, and there was a rattle of crockery,
but this was drowned by an overwhelming roar. The avalanche was
pouring down a gully near the shack, and he leaned against the table,
deafened, until it passed. Then he heard the turmoil of a tremendous
cataract and imagined the snow was plunging into the river and
deflecting the current upon the other bank. The sound gradually died
away and he could hear detached noises; great pines, broken rocks, and
soil, rushing down behind the fallen mass. There were heavy splashes,
and then a strange, unnatural silence.

"It's finished," Festing remarked. "Rather alarming for the first
time, but one gets used to it. You can put out the light and go back
to bed."

Charnock did so and soon went to sleep. In the morning they found that
the most part of the avalanche had fallen into the river, but its tail
remained, resting in a steep cone of snow and broken trees and soil,
against the bank on which they had built the frames. The top of the
cone extended far up the hill, but, owing to the sharpness of the
pitch, its bottom, which covered the frames and rockwork, was thin.
Festing sent half the men to cut this portion away, and the others up
the hill to haul posts for the snowshed to the top of the slides. It
was obvious that a very heavy weight rested on the buried work, but
the pressure was uniform, unlike the jarring of a train, and he did
not feel disturbed.

About four o'clock in the afternoon he came to see how much progress
the shovel gang had made, and Charnock, who superintended their labor,
showed him what they had done. They had cut a gap in the cone, and
part of the rockwork was exposed nearly to the bottom. On each side,
the snow ran down to the water in a uniform smooth slant, except where
broken trees projected from the surface. Above, the mass of snow
rested on the shelf that would carry the track and on the top of the
half-finished work. It glittered with a yellow flush where it caught
the fading light, but in the hollow its color was a dull, cold blue.

By and by they examined the wall. So far as they could see, the
stonework bore the unusual load well, but in one spot there was a
crack between two courses.

"I'll get up there in the morning and see if it's worth while to drive
in a few wedges," Festing remarked. "You had better watch that bank of
snow. Some of it will probably break away."

"We have had two or three small falls," said Charnock, and Festing
beckoned one of the men.

"Come up the hill in the morning, Tom. I'm going to clear the log-
slide or break a new one. Which d'you think would be best?"

While they talked about it, a shower of snow fell on Charnock, who
stepped back.

"Watch out!" he cried. "There's more coming!"

Festing moved a pace or two and went on talking, but Charnock fixed
his eyes on the snow. The part above the track overhung the gap in a
bulging cornice, as if it was moving down hill, and in a few moments a
heavier shower began. The bulge got more prominent, but the cornice
did not break off, and while he watched it, wondering whether he
should call out the men, a stone fell from the wall and dropped at his
feet. This was ominous, but next moment a mass of snow struck his
head, nearly knocking him down, and when he recovered his balance and
wiped his face he noted with alarm that the stones were opening and
the big post leaned outwards.

"Jump for your lives, boys!" he shouted, and throwing himself on
Festing, drove him back.

Then there was a roar of falling stones and a crash. The massive post
lurched towards him and the air was filled with snow. He heard struts
and braces crack as the post tore them out, and thought Festing turned
round in order to see what was happening. He pushed him away, and then
sank into loose snow and fell. Before he could get up there was a
deafening noise, something struck him a heavy blow, and he was buried.

After a short struggle he got his head out, and finding that he was
thinly covered, made an effort to extricate himself. When he had done
so, he saw the men some distance up the bank. They were all there
except Festing, but he noticed a heap of big stones and broken beams
close by.

"Back here, boys! The boss is underneath!" he shouted, and threw
himself upon the stones as the others ran up.

For a minute or two they worked desperately, flinging the lumps of
rock about and dragging away the beams; and then stopped as they
uncovered Festing. His face looked very white, although a red stain
ran down his forehead. Charnock shivered and glanced at the break in
the white mass above the track.

"It's risky, but we've got to pull him out before some more snow comes
down," he said in a hoarse voice. "Scrape the snow off carefully, Tom.
Get hold here with me, Pete."

After two or three minutes' cautious work they lifted Festing out of
the hole. He was unconscious and his arm looked short and distorted.
Charnock felt horror-struck and dizzy, but pulled himself together.

"Go for Kerr, one of you," he said. "Then I want the stretcher and a
hand-sledge. Bring a blast-lamp; ours is smashed."

The men scattered, except for one who stayed with him, and kneeling in
the snow he opened Festing's fur-coat and took off his cap. His head
was cut and his arm broken, but Charnock did not think this altogether
accounted for his unconsciousness. He suspected broken ribs, but could
detect nothing unusual when he felt his comrade's side.

Kerr arrived first and looked at Festing.

"Unconscious all the time?" he asked, and when Charnock nodded
resumed: "Most important thing's to get a doctor, and I'll see to
that. Then I'll get some brandy."

As he hurried away three or four men came down the hill with the
sledge and stretcher, and one rigged and lighted a powerful lamp.
Accidents are common at construction camps, and one of Norton's gang
examined Festing.

"He's sure got it badly; arm's not the worst," he said. "We'll tend to
that and then slide him gently on the stretcher. Carrying him might be
dangerous; we'll fix the whole outfit on the sled."

While they were occupied a plume of smoke shot up above the pines, and
Charnock knew Kerr had sent off a locomotive to bring help. When they
had put Festing on the stretcher a man arrived with brandy, but
Festing could not swallow, and seizing the sledge traces, they started
up the hill. Norton was in the shack when they reached it, and felt
Festing's clothes.

"Not damp; it would be safer to let him lie until the doctor comes,"
he said, and sent the men away. Then he turned to Charnock sharply.
"Sit right down!"

Charnock swayed, clutched the chair, and sank limply into the seat.
The floor heaved and the quiet figure on the stretcher got indistinct.
Then Norton held out a glass.

"Drink it quick!"

Charnock's teeth rattled against the glass, but he swallowed the
liquor, and sat motionless for a moment or two.

"Seemed to lose my balance. Bit of a shock you know, and I expect that
stone hit me pretty hard."

"So I imagine; there's an ugly bruise on your face," said Norton,
giving him back the glass. "The first dose braced you. Take some
more."

"I think not," said Charnock, with a forced smile. "Dangerous remedy
if you have suffered from my complaint. Didn't know my face was hurt
until you told me. When d'you think the doctor will come?"

"There's a man at Jackson's Bench. Loco ought to make the double trip
in about two hours."

"Two hours!" said Charnock faintly, and braced himself to wait.



CHAPTER XXIX

FOUL PLAY

Some time after the accident a doctor arrived and set Festing's arm.
He found two ribs were broken and suspected other injuries, but could
not question his half conscious patient. When he had done all that was
possible in the meantime and had seen Festing lifted carefully into
his bunk, he put a dressing on Charnock's bruised face and pulled a
chair to the fire.

"I'll keep watch; your partner has got an ugly knock," he said. "Don't
think I'll want anything, and you had better go to bed."

Charnock could not sleep and spent the night uncomfortably on a chair.
He was sore and dazed, but his anxiety would not let him rest, and
once or twice he softly crossed the floor to his comrade's bunk. The
last time he did so the doctor, whose head had fallen forward, looked
up with a jerk and frowned as he signed him to go back. After this,
Charnock kept as still as his jarred nerves would permit. Sometimes
Festing groaned, and sometimes made a feeble movement, but so far as
Charnock could see, his eyes were shut.

About three o'clock in the morning, the doctor stood for some minutes
beside the bunk, and Charnock shivered as he watched his face. The
shack seemed very quiet except for the throb of the river and the
grinding of the ice. Then the doctor gave him a nod that hinted at
satisfaction, and told him to refill the iron drum at Festing's feet
with hot water. By and by he put fresh wood in the stove, moving
cautiously and taking as long as possible, because it was a relief to
do something after sitting still in suspense.

At daybreak there was a knock at the door, and Charnock, finding Kerr
and Norton outside, looked at the doctor, who put on his fur-coat and
went out to them.

"Have you any news for us?" Norton asked.

"No change yet. That's encouraging, as far as it goes."

"What about breakfast? Ours is ready. Will you join us?"

"I think not. If my patient doesn't come out of his stupor, I must try
to rouse him soon. Send a man here and take Mr. Charnock. I expect he
needs food."

"Very well," said Kerr. "We'll see the cook looks after you; but can
you give us no idea about Festing? You see, there are matters,
business matters--"

"He has had a bad shock and it will be a long job; a month anyway. I
can't stop long and he ought to have a nurse, although it would be
difficult to get one to come here. But I can't form an opinion yet."

He dismissed them and Kerr took Charnock away. It was very cold. The
white pines were growing into shape; their tops caught the light in
the east and glimmered with a faint warm flush against the dim blue
shadow. Smoke and puffs of steam floated up from the gorge, and the
ringing clang of steel pierced the turmoil of the river. Charnock felt
braced but dizzy. Now he came to think of it, he had eaten no supper,
and after a day of laborious effort the night's watch had fatigued
him. Besides, his face smarted under the bandage, and his back was
sore.

When he sat down in Norton's shack, where a plate was put for Kerr, he
felt ravenously hungry and did not talk much until the meal was over.
Then Norton made him sit near the stove.

"It's an awkward business," he said. "To begin with, what are we going
to do about a nurse? This is hardly the place for a woman, and I doubt
if we could get anybody to undertake the job."

"I'll write to Mrs. Festing."

"Would she come out?"

"I imagine so," said Charnock thoughtfully. "Still she doesn't know
much about nursing."

"His wife is the proper person to look after him," Kerr interposed.
"Then I have a young fellow in the rail gang who could help; found him
useful once or twice when the boys got hurt. In fact, I suspect he's
had some medical training, though I didn't ask why he quit."

Norton smiled. It is not unusual to find men whose professional career
has been cut short working on a Western track.

"That simplifies matters. If you had wanted a lawyer or an accountant,
I could have sent a man. However, there's another thing--"

"There is; it's important," Kerr agreed. "Who's going to carry on the
contract?"

Charnock leaned forward eagerly. "I'll try. Give me a chance. I think
I know my job."

There was silence for a few moments and Norton looked at Kerr, who
slowly filled his pipe.

"I'd like to consent," he said, "but I'm the Company's servant and
there's a risk." He paused and turned to Norton. "However, it's really
your business. If things go wrong, the trouble's coming to you first."

"Sure. I'm willing to take the risk. I don't expect Charnock will fool
the job, but if he does you can get after me. I'll stand for it."

"Very well! We'll let it go at that."

Charnock got up, with some color in his bandaged face, because he knew
what Norton's confidence meant. He was, so to speak, an unknown man
and the contract had been given to Festing, who was an engineer. If he
failed, the men who trusted him would be held accountable.

"Thank you both," he said with feeling. "If labor and money can put
the thing over, I won't let you down."

He went out, for he had, in his anxiety about other matters, forgotten
his men, and it was now important that no time, which must be paid
for, should be wasted. Finding some of the gang at work clearing away
the fallen material and some hauling lumber on the hill, he gave them
a few orders and returned to the shack. When he got there Festing was
conscious and the doctor said he might speak to him.

"How do you feel?" Charnock asked.

"Better than the doctor thinks I ought to feel," Festing answered with
a feeble smile. "You seem to have got knocked about!"

Charnock said he was not much the worse, and Festing resumed: "Have
you seen Norton? What does he say about the contract?"

"I have seen him; you needn't bother. He has left the job to me; I'll
finish it somehow."

A look of relief came into Festing's face. "That's comforting news; I
was afraid-- You're a good partner, Bob!"

"I don't know if I've been of much help so far, and the money I put
into the undertaking wasn't mine. There's a third partner, Stephen,
and I think she'd like me to see you through."

Festing gave him a grateful glance and closed his eyes. After a time,
he opened them feebly and asked: "Do you know why the frame gave way?"

"Not yet," said Charnock with some dryness. "I mean to find out!"

Then the doctor interrupted and sent him away. Going back to the scene
of the accident, he found the damage less serious than he thought.
Part of the wall had fallen and the post, which had broken, had pulled
down the timbers attached, but these could be replaced, and Charnock,
calling two men, began to clear the snow from the king-tie, which he
imagined had given way first. He found the Lewis bolt fixed to its
end, but the wedge had gone, and he climbed to the spot where the end
of the beam had been fixed. The stone socket had not broken, but
pieces of crushed lead lay near the hole. The soft metal had not much
holding power and had been used to fill up the crevices.

Sitting down, he began with methodical patience to turn over the snow
and loose rubble that remained on the shelf after the large stones had
fallen. The odds were against his finding what he sought, but he
persevered for an hour and then picked up a piece of broken metal a
few inches long. It was half of the wedge, which had broken at the
slot, but although he searched carefully he could not find the other
part. Putting the piece in his pocket, he went to the forge and,
seeing the smith was occupied, sat down and filled his pipe. The door
was open and the light reflected from the snow was strong. Charnock
was glad of this, because he wanted to see the smith, who presently
dropped his hammer and leaned against the hearth.

"How's your partner getting on?" he asked. "Mr. Festing's the kind of
man I like; I was sorry to hear he had got hurt."

Charnock studied the man. His face was pale and wrinkled under the
grime, but he looked honest, and if his statement was sincere, as
Charnock thought, it seemed to clear the ground. After giving him a
few particulars about Festing's injuries, he lighted his pipe.

"Wilkinson's not here to-day," he remarked.

"He's not always here," said the smith. "He comes when there are picks
and drills that want sharpening."

"I saw him once or twice when I was in, and thought he was a friend of
yours."

"He can swap a good yarn; kind of handy man and sometimes helps me
with the hammer, but I guess that's all there is to it."

"Just so," said Charnock carelessly. "This is a warm place for a quiet
smoke, and the foreman can't tell how long one ought to stop,
particularly as you're sometimes out at the machine-shop. Do you find
the boys meddle with your tools if they come in while you're away?"

"No, sir; there'd be trouble if I did! Besides, nobody comes but
Wilkinson, and if I'm out he waits."

Charnock nodded, as if it did not matter. He had found out what he
wanted to know and thought he had not excited the smith's suspicions.
Taking the broken wedge from his pocket, he put it on the hearth.

"I expect you know what that is! The Lewis smashed when the frame came
down."

"It's the wedge. Don't see why it broke; plenty metal left, though the
slot weakened it."

"What's it made of?"

"Steel. The iron I wanted didn't come; but this is mild, low-carbon
stuff."

"Then what's the matter with it. It did break."

The smith put the piece into a socket in the anvil and struck it with
a hammer. The end broke short, and picking up the fragment he went to
the door.

"Nature's gone out of it; I sure can't understand the thing," he said
with a puzzled look. "If I hadn't forged the stuff myself, I'd allow
it was burned."

"You don't often overheat the steel you work."

"No, sir," said the smith, who took up a piece of metal, pierced with
holes. "Made this out of the same bar, and it took more forging. Now
you watch!"

He put the object in a vise and hammered down the end, which did not
break. "That's all right, anyhow; tough and most as soft as iron. But
steel's sometimes treacherous; you want to be careful--"

"Could you tell by looking at it if a piece was burned?"

"Well," said the smith thoughtfully, "it's not always easy, but if the
thing was badly scaled, I'd be suspicious. Of course, there might be
some scale--"

"But the wedge looked all right when you finished it?"

"It certainly did," said the smith, who hesitated. "Say do you reckon
it was the bolt going that let down your frame?"

"So far, I imagine it was the weight of snow. The pile ran back up the
hill and must have made a crushing load. For all that, I'm curious
about the wedge."

"Well," said the other, "If it was the wedge, I'm surely sorry! The
blamed thing is burned, though I don't know how. But if she was loaded
up too much, she might have broken anyhow, burned or not."

"I expect so," said Charnock, getting up. "You needn't bother about
the matter; I'm not blaming you."

His face got very grim when he went out, for what he had learned
fitted in with his suspicions. Wilkinson had heard the smith say that
steel could be easily spoiled, and sometimes came to the forge when
the man was away. Then there was the rough, scaly look of the wedge,
which had been put out of the smith's sight, inside the split shank of
the bolt. Everything was plain; Charnock knew why the tie gave way and
allowed the frame to fall.

The thought of the treacherous injury made his blood boil. The thing
had been so easily done; five minutes' work at the blower, a few
strokes with a big hammer when the steel was dangerously hot, and
then, perhaps, a sudden quenching in the snow, when the steel ought to
have slowly cooled. He had been wrong in thinking men would not risk
much for the sake of revenge. Wilkinson had foully struck his comrade
and perhaps crippled him for life. But the cunning brute must be
punished, and driven from the camp, and when he left should carry
marks that would make it difficult to forget his offense.

Charnock, however, could not at once seek out his antagonist. He had
promised Festing to carry on the contract; they had had a number of
setbacks, and the accident would cost them much. Wages were high and
it was essential that the men should be usefully employed, while there
was now nobody but himself to superintend the work. Besides, the
doctor might want him and he must call at the shack every now and then
to see how Festing was getting on. It looked as if he must leave
Wilkinson alone until he had more leisure in the evening.

It was a trying day. The doctor sent him errands and sometimes allowed
him to come in for a few minutes, but his reports were not favorable,
and Festing was either asleep or too feeble to talk. When work stopped
and Charnock went to the shack after some hours' absence the doctor
looked very grave.

"I'm sorry I must keep you out," he said. "You mean well, but you're
clumsy, while the young fellow Mr. Kerr sent has had some training and
knows his job."

"Then my partner's worse?"

"Well, I'll own that I'm anxious about to-night; but if he gets over
the early morning, I'll have hope. Go to the engineer's shack and I'll
send you a report, if possible."

Charnock tried to brace himself as he went away. So far, he had not
imagined that Festing might die. He had got a shock, but must not let
it overwhelm him. Thinking hard, he walked to Norton's shack to get
some food. He was worn out and felt some pain.

Norton gave him supper and offered him room for the night, and
Charnock forced himself to eat. When the meal was over he lounged in a
comfortable chair with his eyes shut for a time, and then got up and
put on his coat.

"Where are you going?" Norton asked.

"I've some business at the camp," Charnock replied in a very grim
voice.

He went out and as he walked down the track met the locomotive
engineer, who stopped.

"Is that you, Mr. Charnock? Cold's pretty fierce to-night. How's Mr.
Festing?"

Charnock had not felt the cold until then, but he shivered and beat
his hands as he replied that Festing was badly hurt. Then he asked:
"Are you going out with the loco?"

"Thought I'd finished, but they've wired that the cars are wanted on
the next section and I've got to run them along."

"Ah," said Charnock. "Have you seen Wilkinson?"

"Met him going to the bunk-house just before you came up."

Charnock went on, and presently entered the big wooden shed, which was
full of tobacco smoke and the smell of hot iron and food. The warmth
made him dizzy after the cold outside. A group of men had gathered
about the stove, others sat at the dirty table with pipes and
newspapers, and a few were quarreling about a game of cards, but
Charnock could not see them distinctly.

One or two looked round as he stopped near the door, dazzled by the
light. He had pulled off the bandage, and there was a large, dark
bruise on his face, which was set. His mouth made a firm line and his
eyes glittered. Then the foreman got up.

"Well," he asked harshly, "what do you want?"

Charnock gave him a careless glance. The fellow was truculent and had
bullied Charnock when he worked in his gang, while the latter had
sometimes replied to his abuse with witty retorts that left a sting.
Afterwards, he had beaten his persecutor badly in the dispute about
the borrowed workmen.

"I'm looking for Wilkinson."

"What d'you want him for?" the foreman asked suspiciously.

"That's my business."

"Then this is my bunk-house; anyhow, I'm in charge. Guess you'd better
get back to the bosses' shacks, where you belong."

Charnock noted the sneer, but said quietly, "I'll go as soon as I've
had a word with Wilkinson."

He tried to see if Wilkinson was there, and did not think he was, but
could not be certain. The foreman's manner hinted that he meant to
protect the fellow.

"You'll go now! D'you want me to put you out?"

For a moment Charnock stood still, and then suddenly lost his self-
control in a fit of savage rage. He had suffered at the hands of the
brute, who was trying to prevent his finding Wilkinson. But he did not
mean to be baulked, and stepped forward with his fists clenched.

He could not remember who struck first, but got a blow on his body
that made him gasp. Then he felt his knuckles jar on his antagonist's
face, and the next moment staggered and fell against a bench that
upset with a crash. He recovered, bent from the waist to dodge a blow
that would have felled him, and struck over the other's arm.

The foreman reeled, but did not fall, and closed with Charnock, who
could not get away because of the table. The latter felt his
antagonist's strength, and there was no room for skill. When he tried
to break loose his feet struck the upset bench, and the wall was close
by. Breathing hard, they rocked to and fro in a furious grapple,
striking when a hand could be loosed, and then fell apart, exhausted.
Both were bleeding but determined, for deep-rooted dislike had
suddenly changed to overpowering hate. Moreover Charnock knew the
foreman was Wilkinson's friend, and half suspected him of a share in
the plot.

In the meantime the men gathered round, scarcely giving the fighters
room, and some, crowded off the floor, mounted the table. Nobody,
however, interfered. They had no part in the quarrel and did not know
what it was about, but while a number sympathized with Charnock, it
was dangerous to offend their boss.

Charnock resumed the attack, advancing with a savage rush. The foreman
gave ground, but stretched out his foot and Charnock, tripping over
it, plunged forward and fell among the legs of the nearest men. They
crowded back, and as he got up awkwardly the foreman seized a heavy
billet of cordwood and flung it at his head. The billet struck his
shoulder, but he was on his feet, his face set and white, and his eyes
vindictively hard. It was a foul blow, but there are few rules to
hamper men who fight in a Western construction camp, and Charnock
thought his antagonist meant to use a stove-iron that lay close by.
Feinting at the other, he dodged and seized a pick-handle he had
noticed on the floor. He was just in time, for the foreman struck at
him with the iron. It clashed upon the pick-handle, but Charnock got
the next blow home and the foreman fell upon the table, on which
Charnock pinned him down. Then getting his right arm loose, he struck
with blind fury.

He was seized from behind, and while he struggled to get loose
somebody gasped: "That's enough! Do you want to kill the man?"

"Yes," said Charnock hoarsely. "Let me go!"

"Help me choke him off! He's surely mad!" cried the man behind.

Somebody else got hold of Charnock. He was dragged back, hustled away
from the table and towards the door. Then the bar was torn from his
hands and a man pushed him out in the snow.

"You have fixed him good," said somebody in a breathless voice. "Go
home and cool off!"

"If Wilkinson's inside, I'm coming back," Charnock declared.

The man laughed. "Wilkinson lit out through the store-shed 'bout a
minute after you came in."

Charnock felt faint and dizzy, but tried to think when the fellow
banged the door. It looked as if Wilkinson knew why he had come, and
had stolen away after seeing the struggle begin. Moreover he had
friends who might go after him and tell him what had happened to the
foreman. Then he remembered that the locomotive engineer had been
ordered to move some cars, and set off for the track.

The snow was rough, he fell into holes, and stubbed his feet against
the ties, but stumbled on until he heard the locomotive snort. Then
there was a jar of iron, wheels rattled, and a dark mass in front
began to roll away. He was too late, and when he stopped and tried to
get his breath two men came down the track.

"Did any of the boys go out on the train?" he asked.

"Only Wilkinson," one replied.

"Where's he going?"

"I don't know," said the other. "As he took his clothes-bag, it
doesn't look as if he was coming back."

Charnock set off for Norton's office. He did not know how he got
there, because a reaction had begun, and he sat down feeling powerless
and badly shaken.



CHAPTER XXX

UNDERSTANDING

At midnight, Charnock, sitting drowsily in a chair in Norton's office,
roused himself with a jerk. He was too anxious about Festing to go to
bed, but bodily fatigue reacted on his brain and dulled his senses.
For all that, he thought he heard steps in the snow, and getting up
quickly went to the door. The bitter cold pierced him like a knife and
he shivered. A man stood outside, and his dark figure, silhouetted
against the snow, was somehow ominous. Charnock tried to brace
himself, for he feared bad news.

"Well?" he said hoarsely.

"It's Musgrave; the doctor sent me along. Your partner's taken a turn.
He's going the right way now."

Charnock looked at the messenger. His relief was overwhelming and he
could not speak.

"That's all, but I guess it's good enough, and you can go to sleep,"
the other resumed, and went away.

When he vanished among the trees Charnock returned to his chair. He
thought he ought to have brought the man in and made him some coffee,
but he was horribly tired and did not want to move about and talk.
Besides, he was conscious of a poignant satisfaction that prevented
his thinking about anything else. While he indulged it a wave of
fatigue swept over him and his head drooped. He tried to open his eyes
but could not, and a few minutes later he was sound asleep.

When he awoke the sun shone into the office and he felt stiff and
cramped, but not cold. This was strange, and he glanced at the stove,
which he had expected to find nearly out. The iron, however, glowed a
dull red and he could hear the cordwood snapping. Somebody must have
put in fresh fuel, and looking at his watch he got up with a start.
The men had been at work for two hours, with nobody to superintend
them. Then he heard a movement and turning round saw one in the room.

"Feeling better, boss?" the fellow asked. "Mr. Kerr told me to come
and see if you were awake. Said you'd find breakfast ready if you went
to his place."

"I expect you thought waiting for me to wake was easier than rolling
logs," Charnock suggested.

"Oh, well!" said the other; "you won't find we've fooled away much
time."

Charnock went to Festing's shack and the doctor nodded and indicated
his comrade's bunk. As Charnock stopped beside it Festing turned his
head.

"Things going all right, Bob?"

"They were last night," said Charnock, with some embarrassment. "I
don't know about this morning because I've just got up. But how are
you?"

Festing smiled. "Much better; imagine I'm not knocked out yet. You
needn't bother about being late. The boys are a pretty good crowd, and
they like you. I'm rather glad you didn't hustle them as much as I
wanted."

"That's enough," said the doctor, who followed Charnock to the door
and gave him a hopeful report.

Charnock ate a very good breakfast in Kerr's shack, but his face was
grave when he began his work. Luck had put upon him a heavy
responsibility, but he must shoulder the load. Sadie and Helen and
Festing had given him much, and now the time had come to pay them
back. Moreover, with the responsibility had come a chance of proving
and, so to speak reinstating, himself. He was entangled in a coil from
which there was but one way out; he must stand by his comrade and
finish the contract, or own himself a wastrel. The difficulties were
obvious, but there was some encouragement. Perhaps the hardest battle
had been fought, for he had grappled with his craving for liquor and
thought he had won. Then the pain had not troubled him for some time.

The men gave him no trouble, and he imagined they worked with more
energy than usual. Now and then one or another stopped to ask, with
obvious sincerity, how the boss was getting on; men from the railroad
gangs, some of whom he scarcely knew, made inquiries, and Charnock
felt moved. His partner's justice had won him respect, but he saw that
some of the sympathy was meant for himself.

Two days later he heard the rumble of an approaching supply train and
walked up the track to meet it. The locomotive stopped farther off
than he expected, and a woman got down. Running forward, he saw that
it was Helen.

"Stephen's doing well; that's the first thing you'll want to know," he
said when they met.

"I know it already. A man told me as soon as the train stopped; he
seemed to guess who I am."

"Ah!" said Charnock; "the boys are very good! It makes me proud to
feel they all like Stephen. But why didn't you telegraph us? The
Company would have sent on the message."

Helen smiled. "I didn't see much use in doing so. You knew when your
letter would arrive and how long it would take me to come. It's
significant that you came to meet the train."

"Perhaps it's characteristic that I came too late to help you down!
But the engineer stopped short of the usual place, and I really have
much to do just now."

Helen gave him a quick glance. Bob had not lost his humor, but had
gained something else. He was thin and haggard, but looked determined.
Although his smile was frank, his mouth was firm and his eyes were
steady.

"I know!" she answered quickly; "I know what you have done for Stephen
and what you mean to do. There is nobody else who can help him and if
there was, the help would not be like yours."

"Thank you," said Charnock. "I'm afraid you're mistaken about one
point, but I have an extra reason for doing the best I can." Then he
paused and smiled. "We tried to make the place comfortable, but you'll
find things rough. One lives in a rather primitive way at a
construction camp."

"Perhaps, so far, I have found things too smooth."

Then Helen asked him about the accident and he told her as much as he
thought advisable, until they reached the shack, where the doctor met
them at the door.

"I expect you're Mrs. Festing," he said. "You'll find your husband
able to talk, but remember that he must be kept calm. I'm going out,
but will be back soon, and we'll see about getting you some food."

He took Charnock away, and Festing looked up with a strained
expression as Helen crossed the floor. Her eyes were wonderfully
gentle, and stooping beside the bunk she kissed him and put her arm
round his neck.

"My dear!" she said softly. "My poor hurt dear! I have come to take
care of you until you get well."

"I imagine I'll need to be taken care of afterwards," Festing
answered, with a forced smile. "It looks as if I hadn't much ground
for self-confidence."

Helen pressed his arm. "We have both made mistakes; but we won't talk
about that now. Do you really feel you're getting better?"

"Of course," said Festing, smiling. "Very much better! I'll get well
remarkably fast now you have come."

Helen brought a chair and for a time they engaged in happy but
careless talk. Both knew there was much to be said, but Helen
skilfully avoided striking a serious note. The time for that had not
arrived yet.

When it got dark the doctor came in and joined them at a meal.

"The engineers have promised to put me up to-night, and I must leave
to-morrow when the train goes out," he said. "I'll try to get back,
but Musgrave knows what to do and will send for me if necessary. The
most important thing is to keep Mr. Festing quiet."

"I'm afraid it will be difficult," Helen answered.

The doctor's eyes twinkled. "So I imagine, but it's your job. If you
find it too hard, Musgrave will put your husband in plaster."

He went East next morning with the supply train, and Helen was sorry
to see him go. He had done what was needed with quiet efficiency, but
she knew he had other patients scattered about a wide district.

Charnock came in for a few minutes now and then during the day, and
Musgrave was often about, but Helen was content to be left alone with
her husband. His helplessness moved her; he had been marked by such
vigor and energy, and it was strange to see him unable to move. Yet,
while very pitiful, she felt a vague satisfaction because she could
help him and he needed her.

When it was getting dark she went to the door and looked out. The
evening was calm and belts of pale-yellow broke the soft gray clouds.
The eastern peaks were touched with an orange glow, but the snow lower
down faded through shades of blue and purple into gloom. To the west,
the pines were black and sharp, with white smears on their lower
branches, and a thin haze rose from the river. The coloring of the
landscape was harmoniously subdued, but its rugged grandeur of outline
caught Helen's eye, and she stood for a few minutes, looking about
with half-awed admiration.

"Do you feel the cold, Stephen?" she asked.

"No," said Festing. "Wonderful view, isn't it? But what's it like
outside?"

"Very still. Everything has a soft look; the harsh glitter's gone and
the air has not the sting it had. Somehow the calm's majestic. The
pictures one sees of the mountains hardly give a hint; one feels this
is the grandest country in the world, but it looks strangely
unfinished."

Festing laughed. "A few ranches, roads, and cornfields would make a
difference? Well, they follow the Steel in Canada and it's my job to
clear the way. But the soft look promises warmer weather, and Bob will
get ahead if a Chinook wind begins to blow. I imagine he hasn't done
very much the last few days."

"You mustn't bother about what Bob is doing," Helen said firmly.

"Very well. Light the lamp and sit where I can see you. There's
something I want to say."

Helen did so and waited until Festing resumed: "To begin with, I've
been a short-sighted, censorious fool about Bob. I'm ashamed to
remember that I said he was a shiftless wastrel. The worst is I can't
apologize; it wouldn't make things better to tell him what I thought."

"That's obvious," said Helen, with a smile. "Still, in a way perhaps,
you were not so very wrong. Bob was something of a wastrel; his wife
has made him a useful man."

"Another thing I was mistaken about! I rather despised Sadie. Now I
want to take off my hat when I think of her. But it's puzzling. A girl
without polish, taste, or accomplishments marries a man who has them
all. She has no particular talents; nothing, in fact, except some
beauty, rude integrity, and native shrewdness. Yet she, so to speak,
works wonders. Puts Bob on his feet and leads him on, when nobody else
could have pulled him out of the mire!"

"She loved him," said Helen softly. "Love gave her patience and
cleverness. However, I think Sadie did not always lead Bob. She knew
when to drive."

Festing was silent for a few moments and then went on: "Well, I have
confessed two blunders and think it has done me good; but I'm getting
nearer what I want to say. Bob's something of a philosopher and once
remarked that events and people seldom force us into coils; our
passions and characters entangle us. He was scoffing at the power of
the theatrical villain and used Wilkinson for an example."

"But Wilkinson had something to do with our troubles."

"Not very much, after all. Perhaps he's accountable for my broken
bones, but it was my obstinacy and ridiculous self-confidence that
sent me here. That's what I really mean to talk about."

"Is it necessary?" Helen asked. "I was foolish to be jealous of the
farm. Women have sometimes worse grounds for jealousy."

"That would have been impossible for us! Nobody who knew you could be
attracted by another woman."

"Bob was attracted," said Helen with a blush. "One must own that he
was prudent. I haven't Sadie's courage and patience."

"In those days, Bob was a besotted whisky-tank; but we are not going
to talk about him. I'm afraid I was forgetful and went my own way like
an obstinate fool. It was wrong, ridiculously wrong; I'm not going to
excuse myself, but I want you to understand."

He paused, for effort and emotion had tired him, but presently
resumed: "I wouldn't use your money, but this wasn't altogether
because I was too proud to let you help. I wanted to keep you safe;
farming's a risky business, and I couldn't play a niggardly, cautious
game. There was the land, waiting to be worked; I couldn't spare labor
or money. But since both might be lost, I was afraid to use your
fortune as a stake."

"I understand," said Helen. "All the same, I would have been glad to
take the risk. I don't think I'm very much afraid of hardship--"

Festing smiled. "You have pluck, but don't know the strain that the
wives of the struggling farmers have to bear. My object is to see that
you don't know. But there's another thing, harder to explain; you felt
that I neglected you, and I fear I did!"

"You didn't mean to neglect me. Perhaps I was foolish, Stephen, but I
felt you left me out. There were ways I could have helped."

"I took the wrong line; that's plain now, but we must think of the
future and not make the same mistake. You are first with me, Helen,
but I must work; it's all I'm fit for. I can't play games and am not
an amusing talker--though I'm talking at large to-night. Well, we have
made our home on the prairie, and all round us the best wheat-soil in
the world is lying waste. They're getting short of food in Europe,
America will soon use all she grows, and folks in the older countries
fix their eyes on us. Then we have room for an industrious population
on our wide plains, cities are waiting to spring up, a new nation is
being born. I and the others who were given the land must clear the
way. It's our business, our only justification for being there. Sounds
romantic and exaggerated, but I think it's true!"

"It is true," said Helen. "Your views are larger than mine."

"Well," said Festing, smiling. "I don't often let myself go and look
far ahead. It's my share to tackle the job before my eyes; to drive
the tractor plow, and the grading scoop along the road reserve. For
all that, it's not a vague sense of duty that really drives me on; I
must work, I'm unhappy when I stop! I'm afraid I'll always feel like
that. what are we going to do about it?"

"You must let me help more."

"I need help; that's something I have learned, and nobody can help
like you. But the strain will slacken soon. The things that will make
life easier for you are coming fast; branch railroads, telephones,
busy little towns, neighbors, and social amusements. Much that you
enjoyed in England will surround you on the plains. But it will not
come as a gift, as it did at home; we will have worked for and made it
possible."

Helen got up. Her color was higher than usual and her eyes sparkled.
She was romantic and Festing had struck the right note, with rude
sincerity and unconscious power. She saw visions of the future and the
dignity of the immediate task. In this wide, new country, man needed
woman's help, and her part was as large as his. Like Sadie, and many
another, she heard the call for Pioneers. Crossing the door she stood
by Festing's bunk.

"I understand it all, Stephen. We must be patient and allow for small
differences in our points of view, for I think, in the main, we see
together. You must never leave me out again; I want to do my part."

Festing said nothing, but he pressed her hand and she kissed him.



CHAPTER XXXI

CHARNOCK'S TRIUMPH

Six weeks after the accident Musgrave and Charnock came into the shack
one evening. The former had examined Festing in the afternoon, and
Helen gave him a meaning look. It hinted that she had expected his
visit and meant to encourage him.

"Come near the stove and smoke if you like. It is very cold."

"No sign of the frost's breaking, I suppose?" said Festing, who lay
propped up with pillows. "Did you get the particulars I asked for,
Bob?"

Charnock gave him a paper with some calculations, and after a time he
nodded.

"On the whole, this is satisfactory; things are going better than I
thought. But what about the new job across the river?"

"Things are going better than he thought! Isn't that like Stephen?"
Charnock remarked to the others, and then turned to Festing. "However,
I expect you didn't mean to be rude and you never were very tactful.
We haven't begun the job you mentioned, but I don't know that it
matters since we're busy at something else, and that's not what I want
to talk about. Musgrave has examined you and gives us an encouraging
report."

"My opinion is that he can be moved and the journey home won't hurt
him if proper care is used."

"But I don't want to be moved just yet," Festing objected.

"No doubt," said Musgrave dryly. "You are an obstinate fellow, but
you're in our hands now, and we have to think what is best for you. To
begin with, you won't be able to get about in time to be of much use,
and you don't get better as fast as you ought. Then I understood you
were resigned to going home before the contract is finished."

"If I must; but I don't want to go now. I'm able to arrange things
with Charnock in the evenings."

"The fact is he doesn't trust me yet," Charnock remarked with a grin.

"You know that isn't true, Bob!"

"Then prove you trust me by going home with Helen. She has been plucky
to stay so long, and now you're fit to be moved, you oughtn't to keep
her. There's another thing; to be frank, you don't help much. We need
a boss to superintend, which you can't do, and when I want advice I
can go to Norton. As a matter of fact, when I come here in the
evenings you find fault with what I've done. When I undertake a job I
like to feel I'm carrying it out."

Festing stopped him and looked at Helen, for he was not deceived by
Charnock's injured tone.

"I imagine this is something like a plot to get me away."

"I think you would get better much faster at home, Stephen. You cannot
do anything useful here, and you cannot rest. Mr. Musgrave agrees."

"Certainly. If he stays, Festing will do himself harm and bother his
partner."

Festing knitted his brows and was silent for a moment or two. Then he
said, "Since it looks as if you had made your plans, I had better go.
You're a very good fellow, Bob; but if you can't keep things straight,
I'll come back and superintend from a stretcher."

They talked about other matters, but when Charnock left, Helen put on
her furs and told Festing she wanted fresh air. Moonlight shone upon
the dark pines and sparkled on the snow, and when they came out of the
shadow of the trees she thought Charnock's face was grave.

"I'm grateful, Bob," she said. "It's a big thing you have undertaken!"

"I frankly wish it was smaller," Charnock answered. "I fact, I feel I
have been horribly rash. I haven't Stephen's constructive talent or,
for that matter, his energy, but somehow I mustn't be beaten."

Helen gave him a gentle look. "You won't be beaten. It's unthinkable!
We trust you."

Then she went back and read a newspaper to Festing, who was carried
down to the supply train next day and made comfortable in the caboose.
Charnock talked to him carelessly until the couplings tightened and
the locomotive began to snort, but his mouth was firm and his face set
as he went back to his work. He knew what he was up against, and there
were difficulties he had not told Festing about.

The days got longer, and the frost was relaxing its grip on the white
prairie, when Festing left his homestead and walked to the trail-fork
to meet the mail-carrier. He returned with some letters and sat down
limply. His face was thin and pale.

"I get tired soon, and there's nothing from Bob yet," he grumbled as
he turned over the envelopes. "It's curious, because he told us the
job was nearly finished and some of the big engineers were coming out
to examine the track. They ought to have arrived some days ago, and
I've no doubt they'd test the work thoroughly when they were there."

"You get too anxious," Helen replied. "If you had a calmer
temperament, you would be stronger now. The engineers can hardly have
had time to make a proper test."

"I have some grounds for being anxious. If the fellows aren't
satisfied, we won't get paid."

Helen smiled. "You're really afraid that Bob may have been careless
and neglected something!"

"Bob's a very good partner; I've confessed that I misjudged him,"
Festing answered with a touch of embarrassment. "Still, you see, I
know his drawbacks, and I know mine. There were two or three pieces of
work, done before I left, that I now see might have been better
planned."

Helen went to the door, for she heard a soft drumming of hoofs on
beaten snow.

"Sadie's coming," she said. "Perhaps she has some news."

Festing followed her and Sadie stopped the horses, but did not get
down.

"I've a telegram from Bob; he'll be home to-morrow," she said. "He
wants you both to meet him at the station."

"Did he say anything about the job being finished?" Festing asked as
he went down the steps.

"No," said Sadie. "He seemed particularly anxious to see you at the
depot; my hands are too numb or I'd show you the telegram. I haven't
time to come in and don't want the team to stand in the cold."

Then she waved her hand to Helen and drove away.

About six o'clock next evening Helen and Festing walked up and down
beside the track at the railroad settlement. There was no platform,
but the agent's office stood near the rails, with a baggage shed, and
a big tank for filtering saline water near the locomotive pipe. Behind
these, three tall grain-elevators, which had not been finished when
Festing saw them last, rose against the sky, dwarfing the skeleton
frame of a new hotel. The ugly wooden houses had extended some
distance across the snow, and Festing knew the significance of this.
It was not dark yet, but the headlamp of a locomotive in the side-
track flung a glittering beam a quarter of a mile down the line. In
the west, a belt of saffron light, cut by the black smear of a bluff,
glimmered on the horizon. Festing indicated the settlement.

"It has grown fast, but if things go as some of us expect, the change
will soon be magical. In a year or two you'll see a post-office like a
palace, and probably an opera-house, besides street cars running north
and south from the track."

"I think I should like that," Helen remarked. "When it comes, you will
have an office and a telephone, and be satisfied to superintend."

Festing laughed. "It's possible, but there's much to be done first,
and I'm not getting on very fast just now. Still I don't feel knocked
out and I've walked half a mile."

Glancing at the elevator towers and blocks of square-fronted houses
that rose abruptly from the snow, Helen mused. The settlement jarred
her fastidious taste, but she had seen Western towns that had, in a
few years, grown out of their raw ugliness and blossomed in an
efflorescence of ambitious architecture. Such beauty as they then
possessed was not refined or subdued, but it was somehow
characteristic of the country and harmonized with the builders'
optimism. There was no permanence on the prairie; everything was in a
fluid state of change and marked by a bold, but sometime misguided,
striving for something better. Then she turned to her husband. His
face was thin and she noted lines that came from mental strain and
physical suffering, but his eyes were calm. She liked his look of
quiet resolution.

"You are getting stronger fast," she said. "The days are lengthening,
spring is near, and you will soon be able to work again. Well, I will
not try to stop you. When the prairie is plowed and covered with wheat
I want you to feel that you have done your part. The change that is
coming will bring the things women like; comfort, amusements, society.
But what about you and the others, the pioneers, when there is no more
ground to be broken and the way is cleared?"

Festing smiled. "As a rule, the pioneer sells his homestead and goes
on into the wilds to blaze another trail, but I imagine I shall be
glad to rest. If not, we're an adaptable people and there are
different ways of helping things along. One can learn to use other
tools than the ax and plow."

"Ah," said Helen, "You are getting broader. You see clearly, Stephen,
and your views are often long, but I sometimes thought you focused
them too narrowly on the object in front. Perhaps I shall have done
something if I have taught you to look all round. But here's Sadie and
the train."

A light sprang out from the distant bluff and grew into a dazzling
fan-shaped beam. Then the roar of wheels slackened, and Sadie joined
the others as a bell began to toll, and with smoke streaming back
along the cars the train rolled into the station. Somebody leaned out
from the rails of a vestibule, and Sadie began to run beside the
track.

"Come along!" she cried. "It's Bob!"

Festing and Helen followed, and when they reached the vestibule
Charnock pushed a door open and took them inside. The car was brightly
lighted, but not furnished on the usual plan. A table stood in the
middle, the curtained berths were at one end, and there were cases
holding books and surveying instruments. It was obviously meant for
the use of railroad managers and engineers, and three or four
gentlemen stood near the table, as if they had just got up. Festing
saw that one was Dalton, who advanced eagerly as Helen came in. He
presented his companions to her and Sadie, and a gentleman who was
well known on Canadian railroads gave Festing his hand. Another was
Norton's employer, a famous contractor.

"Sit down," said the first. "The engineer wants to fill his tank, and
they won't pull out until we are ready." Then he turned to Festing.
"We have examined a piece of tract you helped build and I must
compliment you on a first-class job. As a rule, we are glad to get our
contract work up to specification, but you have done better."

"My partner is really responsible for that," Festing replied. "I got
knocked out soon after we made a good start and had to leave him to
carry on."

The contractor smiled as he interposed: "A good beginning counts for
much, and I'm glad to state that Mr. Charnock has kept to your lines.
When you were forced to leave it seemed prudent to make some
inquiries, but we found that your partner was doing high-grade work,
and now we have inspected it, I must admit that Norton's favorable
reports were deserved." He paused and turned to Sadie. "If your
husband's as good a farmer as an engineer, he'll make progress."

Sadie flushed with pride. "Looks as if he'd made some already, but you
didn't run much risk when you trusted him."

"My wife's the farmer and my partner the engineer," Charnock remarked.
"I know my limits, but try to keep going when somebody starts me
well."

"You have gone farther than our bargain demanded, which doesn't often
happen," said the contractor, who turned to Festing. "Mr. Charnock has
my cheque for the main job, but there are some accounts to make up and
you won't find my cashier disputes the extras. Perhaps that's all I
need say, except that you have satisfied me, and, I gather, satisfied
your men. In fact, you and Mr. Charnock leave us with general good
feeling."

Then they talked about something else until a man came in to say that
the locomotive tank was filled, and the engineer and contractor went
to the vestibule with their guests. For a minute or two the group
stood on the platform, exchanging farewell compliments, while the
station agent waited in the snow. Then the engineer said:

"I wanted to meet your husband, Mrs. Festing, and if we have any more
difficult work, hope you will let me have him again."

"He came back the worse last time," Helen answered smiling. "I'm not
sure I would have the courage to let him go. Besides, he has other
work at home. A farm makes many demands on one."

"I have no doubt it does," agreed the engineer. "One imagines that on
the Festing farm all demands will be met."

He signed to the agent, the others went down the steps, and the bell
began to toll as the lighted cars rolled by. The rattle of wheels got
louder, and a plume of smoke trailed back and spread in a dingy cloud,
but Helen and Festing stood, a little way from the others, watching
the receding train. They felt that something was finished;
satisfactorily finished amidst well-earned praise, but done with for
good. Festing looked at Helen with a comprehending smile.

"You answered right; I'm not going back! Our work is waiting, here on
the plains."

"Ah," said Helen softly, "how much easier you make it when you call it
ours!"

They went to the hotel where they had left the team, and as the others
followed Sadie turned to her husband with a glow of happy pride. He
had come back, so to speak, triumphant, the guest of famous men who
had said flattering things about him, and for his sake the train had
been held up while the great contractor talked to her.

"Bob," she said, "you have made good! I can't tell you all I feel
about it. Some day you'll be a famous man."





[Portions of this header are copyright (C) 2001 by Michael S. Hart
and may be reprinted only when these Etexts are free of all fees.]
[Project Gutenberg is a TradeMark and may not be used in any sales
of Project Gutenberg Etexts or other materials be they hardware or
software or any other related product without express permission.]





This etext was produced by Ken Reeder <kreeder@mailsnare.net>
Errata and other transcription notes are included as an appendix





THE GUNS OF BULL RUN
A STORY OF THE CIVIL WAR'S EVE

by JOSEPH A. ALTSHELER




THE CIVIL WAR SERIES


 VOLUMES IN THE CIVIL WAR SERIES

  THE GUNS OF BULL RUN.
  THE GUNS OF SHILOH.
  THE SCOUTS OF STONEWALL.
  THE SWORD OF ANTIETAM.
  THE STAR OF GETTYSBURG.
  THE ROCK OF CHICKAMAUGA.
  THE SHADES OF THE WILDERNESS.
  THE TREE OF APPOMATTOX.


 PRINCIPAL CHARACTERS IN THE CIVIL WAR SERIES

  HARRY KENTON, A Lad Who Fights on the Southern Side.
  DICK MASON, Cousin of Harry Kenton, Who Fights on the Northern Side.
  COLONEL GEORGE KENTON, Father of Harry Kenton.
  MRS. MASON, Mother of Dick Mason.
  JULIANA, Mrs. Mason's Devoted Colored Servant.
  COLONEL ARTHUR WINCHESTER, Dick Mason's Regimental Commander.
  COLONEL LEONIDAS TALBOT, Commander of the Invincibles,
   a Southern Regiment.
  LIEUTENANT COLONEL HECTOR ST. HILAIRE, Second in Command of the
   Invincibles.
  ALAN HERTFORD, A Northern Cavalry Leader.
  PHILIP SHERBURNE, A Southern Cavalry Leader.
  WILLIAM J. SHEPARD, A Northern Spy.
  DANIEL WHITLEY, A Northern Sergeant and Veteran of the Plains.
  GEORGE WARNER, A Vermont Youth Who Loves Mathematics.
  FRANK PENNINGTON, A Nebraska Youth, Friend of Dick Mason.
  ARTHUR ST. CLAIR, A Native of Charleston, Friend of Harry Kenton.
  TOM LANGDON, Friend of Harry Kenton.
  GEORGE DALTON, Friend of Harry Kenton.
  BILL SKELLY, Mountaineer and Guerrilla.
  TOM SLADE, A Guerrilla Chief.
  SAM JARVIS, The Singing Mountaineer.
  IKE SIMMONS, Jarvis' Nephew.
  AUNT "SUSE," A Centenarian and Prophetess.
  BILL PETTY, A Mountaineer and Guide.
  JULIEN DE LANGEAIS, A Musician and Soldier from Louisiana.
  JOHN CARRINGTON, Famous Northern Artillery Officer.
  DR. RUSSELL, Principal of the Pendleton School.
  ARTHUR TRAVERS, A Lawyer.
  JAMES BERTRAND, A Messenger from the South.
  JOHN NEWCOMB, A Pennsylvania Colonel.
  JOHN MARKHAM, A Northern Officer.
  JOHN WATSON, A Northern Contractor.
  WILLIAM CURTIS, A Southern Merchant and Blockade Runner.
  MRS. CURTIS, Wife of William Curtis.
  HENRIETTA GARDEN, A Seamstress in Richmond.
  DICK JONES, A North Carolina Mountaineer.
  VICTOR WOODVILLE, A Young Mississippi Officer.
  JOHN WOODVILLE, Father of Victor Woodville.
  CHARLES WOODVILLE, Uncle of Victor Woodville.
  COLONEL BEDFORD, A Northern Officer.
  CHARLES GORDON, A Southern Staff Officer.
  JOHN LANHAM, An Editor.
  JUDGE KENDRICK, A Lawyer.
  MR. CULVER, A State Senator.
  MR. BRACKEN, A Tobacco Grower.
  ARTHUR WHITRIDGE, A State Senator.


 HISTORICAL CHARACTERS

  ABRAHAM LINCOLN, President of the United States.
  JEFFERSON DAVIS, President of the Southern Confederacy.
  JUDAH P. BENJAMIN, Member of the Confederate Cabinet.
  U. S. GRANT, Northern Commander.
  ROBERT B. LEE, Southern Commander.
  STONEWALL JACKSON, Southern General.
  PHILIP H. SHERIDAN, Northern General.
  GEORGE H. THOMAS, "The Rock of Chickamauga."
  ALBERT SIDNEY JOHNSTON, Southern General.
  A. P. HILL, Southern General.
  W. S. HANCOCK, Northern General.
  GEORGE B. McCLELLAN, Northern General.
  AMBROSE B. BURNSIDE, Northern General.
  TURNER ASHBY, Southern Cavalry Leader.
  J. E. B. STUART, Southern Cavalry Leader.
  JOSEPH HOOKER, Northern General.
  RICHARD S. EWELL, Southern General.
  JUBAL EARLY, Southern General.
  WILLIAM S. ROSECRANS, Northern General.
  SIMON BOLIVAR BUCKNER, Southern General.
  LEONIDAS POLK, Southern General and Bishop.
  BRAXTON BRAGG, Southern General.
  NATHAN BEDFORD FORREST, Southern Cavalry Leader.
  JOHN MORGAN, Southern Cavalry Leader.
  GEORGE J. MEADE, Northern General.
  DON CARLOS BUELL, Northern General.
  W. T. SHERMAN, Northern General.
  JAMES LONGSTREET, Southern General.
  P. G. T. BEAUREGARD, Southern General.
  WILLIAM L. YANCEY, Alabama Orator.
  JAMES A. GARFIELD, Northern General, afterwards President of
   the United States.

  And many others


 IMPORTANT BATTLES DESCRIBED IN THE CIVIL WAR SERIES

  BULL RUN
  KERNSTOWN
  CROSS KEYS
  WINCHESTER
  PORT REPUBLIC
  THE SEVEN DAYS
  MILL SPRING
  FORT DONELSON
  SHILOH
  PERRYVILLE
  STONE RIVER
  THE SECOND MANASSAS
  ANTIETAM
  FREDERICKSBURG
  CHANCELLORSVILLE
  GETTYSBURG
  CHAMPION HILL
  VICKSBURG
  CHICKAMAUGA
  MISSIONARY RIDGE
  THE WILDERNESS
  SPOTTSYLVANIA
  COLD HARBOR
  FISHER'S HILL
  CEDAR CREEK
  APPOMATTOX



CONTENTS

    I.    NEWS FROM CHARLESTON

   II.    A COURIER TO THE SOUTH

  III.    THE HEART OF REBELLION

   IV.    THE FIRST CAPITAL

    V.    THE NEW PRESIDENT

   VI.    SUMTER

  VII.    THE HOMECOMING

 VIII.    THE FIGHT FOR A STATE

   IX.    THE RIVER JOURNEY

    X.    OVER THE MOUNTAINS

   XI.    IN VIRGINIA

  XII.    THE FIGHT FOR THE FORT

 XIII.    THE SEEKER FOR HELP

  XIV.    IN WASHINGTON

   XV.    BATTLE'S EVE

  XVI.    BULL RUN




THE GUNS OF BULL RUN

CHAPTER I

NEWS FROM CHARLESTON


It would soon be Christmas and Harry Kenton, at his desk in the
Pendleton Academy, saw the snow falling heavily outside.  The school
stood on the skirt of the town, and the forest came down to the edge of
the playing field.  The great trees, oak and ash and elm, were clothed
in white, and they stood out a vast and glittering tracery against the
somber sky.

The desk was of the old kind, intended for two, and Harry's comrade in
it was his cousin, Dick Mason, of his own years and size.  They would
graduate in June, and both were large and powerful for their age.
There was a strong family resemblance and yet a difference.  Harry's
face was the more sensitive and at times the blood leaped like
quicksilver in his veins.  Dick's features indicated a quieter and more
stubborn temper.  They were equal favorites with teachers and pupils.

Dick's eyes followed Harry's, and he, too, looked at the falling snow
and the white forest.  Both were thinking of Christmas and the holiday
season so near at hand.  It was a rich section of Kentucky, and they
were the sons of prosperous parents.  The snow was fitting at such a
time, and many joyous hours would be passed before they returned to
school.

The clouds darkened and the snow fell faster.  A wind rose and drove it
against the panes.  The boys heard the blast roaring outside and the
comfort of the warm room was heightened by the contrast.  Harry's eyes
turned reluctantly back to his Tacitus and the customs and manners of
the ancient Germans.  The curriculum of the Pendleton Academy was simple,
like most others at that time.  After the primary grades it consisted
chiefly of the classics and mathematics.  Harry led in the classics and
Dick in the mathematics.

Bob Turner, the free colored man, who was janitor of the academy,
brought in the morning mail, a dozen letters and three or four
newspapers, gave it to Dr. Russell and withdrew on silent feet.

The Doctor was principal of Pendleton Academy, and he always presided
over the room in which sat the larger boys, nearly fifty in number.
His desk and chair were on a low dais and he sat facing the pupils.
He was a large man, with a ruddy face, and thick hair as white as the
snow that was falling outside.  He had been a teacher fifty years,
and three generations in Pendleton owed to him most of the learning that
is obtained from books.  He opened his letters one by one, and read
them slowly.

Harry moved far away into the German forest with old Tacitus.  He was
proud of his Latin and he did not mean to lose his place as first in the
class.  The other boys also were absorbed in their books.  It was seldom
that all were studious at the same time, but this was one of the rare
moments.  There was no shuffling of feet, and fifty heads were bent over
their desks.

It was a full half hour before Harry looked up from his Tacitus.
His first glance was at the window.  The snow was driving hard, and the
forest had become a white blur.  He looked next at the Doctor and he saw
that the ruddy face had turned white.  The old man was gazing intently
at an open letter in his hand.  Two or three others had fallen to the
floor.  He read the letter again, folded it carefully, and put it in his
pocket.  Then he broke the wrapper on one of the newspapers and rapidly
read its columns.  The whiteness of his face deepened into pallor.

The slight tearing sound caused most of the boys to look up, and they
noticed the change in the principal's face.  They had never seen him
look like that before.  It was as if he had received some sudden and
deadly stroke.  Yet he sat stiffly upright and there was no sound in the
room but the rustling of the newspaper as he turned its pages.

Harry became conscious of some strange and subtle influence that had
crept into the very air, and his pulse began to leap.  The others felt
it, too.  There was a tense feeling in the room and they became so still
that the soft beat of the snow on the windows could be heard.

Not a single eye was turned to a book now.  All were intent upon the
Doctor, who still read the newspaper, his face without a trace of color,
and his strong white hands trembling.  He folded the paper presently,
but still held it in his hand.  As he looked up, he became conscious of
the silence in the room, and of the concentrated gaze of fifty pairs
of eyes bent upon him.  A little color returned to his cheeks, and his
hands ceased to tremble.  He stood up, took the letter from his pocket,
and opened it again.

Dr. Russell was a striking figure, belonging to a classic type found
at its best in the border states.  A tall man, he held himself erect,
despite his years, and the color continued to flow back into the face,
which was shaped in a fine strong mold.

"Boys," he said, in a firm, full voice, although it showed emotion,
"I have received news which I must announce to you.  As I tell it,
I beg that you will restrain yourselves, and make little comment here.
Its character is such that you are not likely ever to hear anything of
more importance."

No one spoke, but a thrill of excitement ran through the room.  Harry
became conscious that the strange and subtle influence had increased.
The pulses in both temples were beating hard.  He and Dick leaned
forward, their elbows upon the desk, their lips parted a little in
attention.

"You know," continued Dr. Russell in the full voice that trembled
slightly, "of the troubles that have arisen between the states, North
and South, troubles that the best Americans, with our own great Henry
Clay at the head, have striven to avert.  You know of the election of
Lincoln, and how this beloved state of ours, seeking peace, voted for
neither Lincoln nor Breckinridge, both of whom are its sons."

The trembling of his voice increased and he paused again.  It was
obvious that he was stirred by deep emotion and it communicated itself
to the boys.  Harry was conscious that the thrill, longer and stronger
than before, ran again through the room.

"I have just received a letter from an old friend in Charleston,"
continued Dr. Russell in a shaking voice, "and he tells me that on the
twentieth, three days ago, the state of South Carolina seceded from the
Union.  He also sends me copies of two of the Charleston newspapers of
the day following.  In both of these papers all despatches from the
other states are put under the head, 'Foreign News.'  With the
Abolitionists of New England pouring abuse upon all who do not agree
with them, and the hot heads of South Carolina rushing into violence,
God alone knows what will happen to this distracted country that all
of us love so well."

He turned anew to his correspondence.  But Harry saw that he was
trembling all over.  An excited murmur arose.  The boys began to talk
about the news, and the principal, his thoughts far away, did not call
them to order.

"I suppose since South Carolina has gone out that other southern states
will do the same," said Harry to his cousin, "and that two republics
will stand where but one stood before."

"I don't know that the second result will follow the first," replied
Dick Mason.

Harry glanced at him.  He was conscious of a certain cold tenacity in
Dick's voice.  He felt that a veil of antagonism had suddenly been drawn
between these two who were the sons of sisters and who had been close
comrades all their lives.  His heart swelled suddenly.  As if by
inspiration, he saw ahead long and terrible years.  He said no more,
but gazed again at the pages of his Tacitus, although the letters only
swam before his eyes.

The great buzz subsided at last, although there was not one among the
boys who was not still thinking of the secession of South Carolina.
They had shared in the excitement of the previous year.  A few had
studied the causes, but most were swayed by propinquity and kinship,
which with youth are more potent factors than logic.

The afternoon passed slowly.  Dr. Russell, who always heard the
recitations of the seniors in Latin, did not call the class.  Harry was
so much absorbed in other thoughts that he did not notice the fact.
Outside, the clouds still gathered and the soft beat of the snow on the
window panes never ceased.  The hour of dismissal came at last and the
older boys, putting on their overcoats, went silently out.  Harry did
not dream that he had passed the doors of Pendleton Academy for the
last time, as a student.

While the seniors were quiet, there was no lack of noise from the
younger lads.  Snowballs flew and the ends of red comforters, dancing
in the wind, touched the white world with glowing bits of color.  Harry
looked at them with a sort of pity.  The magnified emotions of youth had
suddenly made him feel very old and very responsible.  When a snowball
struck him under the ear he paid no attention to it, a mark of great
abstraction in him.

He and his cousin walked gravely on, and left the shouting crowd behind
them.  Three or four hundred yards further, they came upon the main
street of Pendleton, a town of fifteen hundred people, important in
its section as a market, and as a financial and political center.  It
had two banks as solid as stone, and it was the proud boast of its
inhabitants that, excepting Louisville and Lexington, its bar was of
unequalled talent in the state.  Other towns made the same claim,
but no matter.  Pendleton knew that they were wrong.  Lawyers stood
very high, especially when they were fluent speakers.

It was a singular fact that the two boys, usually full of talk, after
the manner of youth, did not speak until they came to the parting of
their ways.  Then Harry, the more emotional of the two, and conscious
that the veil of antagonism was still between them, thrust out his hand
suddenly and said:

"Whatever happens, Dick, you and I must not quarrel over it.  Let's
pledge our word here and now that, being of the same blood and having
grown up together, we will always be friends."

The color in the cheeks of the other boy deepened.  A slight moisture
appeared in his eyes.  He was, on the whole, more reserved than Harry,
but he, too, was stirred.  He took the outstretched hand and gave it a
strong clasp.

"Always, Harry," he replied.  "We don't think alike, maybe, about the
things that are coming, but you and I can't quarrel."

He released the hand quickly, because he hated any show of emotion,
and hurried down a side street to his home.  Harry walked on into the
heart of the town, as he lived farther away on the other side.  He soon
had plenty of evidence that the news of South Carolina's secession had
preceded him here.  There had been no such stir in Pendleton since they
heard of Buena Vista, where fifty of her sons fought and half of them
fell.

Despite the snow, the streets about the central square were full of
people.  Many of the men were reading newspapers.  It was fifteen miles
to the nearest railroad station, and the mail had come in at noon,
bringing the first printed accounts of South Carolina's action.  In this
border state, which was a divided house from first to last, men still
guarded their speech.  They had grown up together, and they were all of
blood kin, near or remote.

"What will it mean?" said Harry to old Judge Kendrick.

"War, perhaps, my son," replied the old man sadly.  "The violence of New
England in speech and the violence of South Carolina in action may start
a flood.  But Kentucky must keep out of it.  I shall raise my voice
against the fury of both factions, and thank God, our people have never
refused to hear me."

He spoke in a somewhat rhetorical fashion, natural to time and place,
but he was in great earnest.  Harry went on, and entered the office of
the Pendleton News, the little weekly newspaper which dispensed the news,
mostly personal, within a radius of fifty miles.  He knew that the News
would appear on the following day, and he was anxious to learn what
Mr. Gardner, the editor, a friend of his, would have to say in his
columns.

He walked up the dusty stairway and entered the room, where the
editor sat amid piles of newspapers.  Mr. Gardner was a youngish man,
high-colored and with longish hair.  He was absorbed so deeply in a copy
of the Louisville Journal that he did not hear Harry's step or notice
his coming until the boy stood beside him.  Then he looked up and said
dryly:

"Too many sparks make a blaze at last.  If people keep on quarreling
there's bound to be a fight some time or other.  I suppose you've heard
that South Carolina has seceded."

"Dr. Russell announced it at the school.  Are you telling, Mr. Gardner,
what the News will have to say about it?"

"I don't mind," replied the editor, who was fond of Harry, and who liked
his alert mind.  "If it comes to a breach, I'm going with my people.
It's hard to tell what's right or wrong, but my ancestors belonged to
the South and so do I."

"That's just the way I feel!" exclaimed Harry vehemently.

The editor smiled.

"But I don't intend to say so in the News tomorrow," he continued.
"I shall try to pour oil upon the waters, although I won't be able to
hide my Southern leanings.  The Colonel, your father, Harry, will not
seek to conceal his."

"No," said Harry.  "He will not.  What was that?"

The sound of a shot came from the street.  The two ran hurriedly down
the stairway.  Three men were holding a fourth who struggled with them
violently.  One had wrenched from his hand a pistol still smoking at the
muzzle.  About twenty feet away was another man standing between two who
held him tightly, although he made no effort to release himself.

Harry looked at the two captives.  They made a striking contrast.
The one who fought was of powerful build, and dressed roughly.  His
whole appearance indicated the primitive human being, and Harry knew
immediately that he was one of the mountaineers who came long distances
to trade or carouse in Pendleton.

The man who faced the mountaineer, standing quietly between those who
held him, was young and slender, though tall.  His longish black hair
was brushed carefully.  The natural dead whiteness of his face was
accentuated by his black mustache, which turned up at the ends like
that of a duelist.  He was dressed in black broadcloth, the long coat
buttoned closely about his body, but revealing a full and ruffled
shirt bosom as white as snow.  His face expressed no emotion, but the
mountaineer cursed violently.

"I can read the story at once," said the editor, shrugging his
shoulders.  "I know the mountaineer.  He's Bill Skelly, a rough man,
prone to reach for the trigger, especially when he's full of bad whiskey
as he is now, and the other, Arthur Travers, is no stranger to you.
Skelly is for the abolition of slavery.  All the mountaineers are.
Maybe it's because they have no slaves themselves and hate the more
prosperous and more civilized lowlanders who do have them.  Harry,
my boy, as you grow older you'll find that reason and logic seldom
control men's lives."

"Skelly was excited over the news from South Carolina," said Harry,
continuing the story, which he, too, had read, as an Indian reads a
trail, "and he began to drink.  He met Travers and cursed the slave-
holders.  Travers replied with a sneer, which the mountaineer could
not understand, except that it hurt.  Skelly snatched out his pistol
and fired wildly.  Travers drew his and would have fired, although not
so wildly, but friends seized him.  Meanwhile, others overpowered Skelly
and Travers is not excited at all, although he watches every movement
of his enemy, while seeming to be indifferent."

"You read truly, Harry," said Gardner.  "It was a fortunate thing for
Skelly that he was overpowered.  Somehow, those two men facing each
other seem, in a way, to typify conditions in this part of the country
at least."

Harry was now watching Travers, who always aroused his interest.
A lawyer, twenty-seven or eight years of age, he had little practice,
and seemed to wish little.  He had a wonderful reputation for dexterity
with cards and the pistol.  A native of Pendleton, he was the son of
parents from one of the Gulf States, and Harry could never quite feel
that he was one of their own Kentucky blood and breed.

"You can release me," said Travers quietly to the young men who stood on
either side of him holding his arms.  "I think the time has come to hunt
bigger game than a fool there like Skelly.  He is safe from me."

He spoke with a supercilious scorn which impressed Harry, but which
he did not wholly admire.  Travers seemed to him to have the quiet
deadliness of the cobra.  There was something about him that repelled.
The men released him.  He straightened his long black coat, smoothed the
full ruffles of his shirt and walked away, as if nothing had happened.

Skelly ceased to struggle.  The aspect of the crowd, which was largely
hostile, sobered him.  Steve Allison, the town constable, appeared and,
putting his hand heavily upon the mountaineer's shoulder, said:

"You come with me, Skelly."

But old Judge Kendrick intervened.

"Let him go, Steve," he said.  "Send him back to the mountains."

"But he tried to kill a man, Judge."

"I know, but extraordinary times demand extraordinary methods.  A great
and troubled period has come into all our lives.  Maybe we're about to
face some terrible crisis.  Isn't that so?"

"Yes," replied the crowd.

"Then we must not hurry it or make it worse by sudden action.  If Skelly
is punished, the mountaineers will say it is political.  I appeal to you,
Dr. Russell, to sustain me."

The white head of the principal showed above the crowd.

"Judge Kendrick is right," he said.  "Skelly must be permitted to go.
His action, in fact, was due to the strained conditions that have long
prevailed among us, and was precipitated by the alarming message that
has come today.  For the sake of peace, we must let him go."

"All right, then," said Allison, "but he goes without his pistol."

Skelly was put upon his mountain pony, and he rode willingly away amid
the snow and the coming dusk, carrying, despite his release, a bitter
heart into the mountains, and a tale that would inflame the jealousy
with which upland regarded lowland.

The crowd dispersed.  Gardner returned to his office, and Harry went
home.  He lived in the best house in or about Pendleton and his father
was its wealthiest citizen.  George Kenton, having inherited much land
in Kentucky, and two or three plantations further south had added to
his property by good management.  A strong supporter of slavery, actual
contact with the institution on a large scale in the Gulf States had not
pleased him, and he had sold his property there, reinvesting the money
in his native and, as he believed, more solid state.  His title of
colonel was real.  A graduate of West Point, he had fought bravely with
Scott in all the battles in the Valley of Mexico, but now retired and a
widower, he lived in Pendleton with Harry, his only child.

Harry approached the house slowly.  He knew that his father was a
man of strong temper and he wondered how he would take the news from
Charleston.  All the associations of Colonel Kenton were with the
extreme Southern wing, and his influence upon his son was powerful.

But the Pendleton home, standing just beyond the town, gave forth
only brightness and welcome.  The house itself, large and low, built
massively of red brick, stood on the crest of a gentle slope in two
acres of ground.  The clipped cones of pine trees adorned the slopes,
and made parallel rows along the brick walk, leading to the white
portico that formed the entrance to the house.  Light shone from a
half dozen windows.

It seemed fine and glowing to Harry.  His father loved his home, and so
did he.  The twilight had now darkened into night and the snow still
drove, but the house stood solid and square to wind and winter, and the
flame from its windows made broad bands of red and gold across the snow.
Harry went briskly up the walk and then stood for a few moments in the
portico, shaking the snow off his overcoat and looking back at the town,
which lay in a warm cluster in the hollow below.  Many lights twinkled
there, and it occurred to Harry that they would twinkle later than usual
that night.

He opened the door, hung his hat and overcoat in the hall, and entered
the large apartment which his father and he habitually used as a reading
and sitting room.  It was more than twenty feet square, with a lofty
ceiling.  A home-made carpet, thick, closely woven, and rich in colors
covered the floor.  Around the walls were cases containing books,
mostly in rich bindings and nearly all English classics.  American work
was scarcely represented at all.  The books read most often by Colonel
Kenton were the novels of Walter Scott, whom he preferred greatly to
Dickens.  Scott always wrote about gentlemen.  A great fire of hickory
logs blazed on the wide hearth.

Colonel Kenton was alone in the room.  He stood at the edge of the
hearth, with his back to the fire and his hands crossed behind him.
His tanned face was slightly pale, and Harry saw that he had been
subjected to great nervous excitement, which had not yet wholly abated.

The colonel was a tall man, broad of chest, but lean and muscular.
He regarded his son attentively, and his eyes seemed to ask a question.

"Yes," said Harry, although his father had not spoken a word.  "I've
heard of it, and I've already seen one of its results."

"What is that?" asked Colonel Kenton quickly.

"As I came through town Bill Skelly, a mountaineer, shot at Arthur
Travers.  It came out of hot words over the news from Charleston.
Nobody was hurt, and they've sent Skelly on his pony toward his
mountains."

Colonel Kenton's face clouded.

"I'm sorry," he said.  "I fear that Travers will be much too free with
stinging remarks.  It's a time when men should control their tongues.
Do you be careful with yours.  You're a youth in years, but you're a man
in size, and you should be a man in thought, too.  You and I have been
close together, and I have trusted you, even when you were a little boy."

"It's so, father," replied Harry, with affection and gratitude.

"And I'm going to trust you yet further.  It may be that I shall give
you a task requiring great skill and energy."

The colonel looked closely at his son, and he gave silent approval to
the tall, well-knit form, and the alert, eager face.

"We'll have supper presently," he said, "and then we will talk with
visitors.  Some you know and some you don't.  One of them, who has come
far, is already in the house."

Harry's eyes showed surprise, but he knew better than to ask questions.
The colonel had carried his military training into private life.

"He is a distant relative of ours, very distant, but a relative still,"
continued Colonel Kenton.  "You will meet him at supper.  Be ready in a
half hour."

The dinner of city life was still called supper in the South, and
Harry hastened to his room to prepare.  His heart began to throb with
excitement.  Now they were to have visitors at night and a mysterious
stranger was there.  He felt dimly the advance of great events.

Harry Kenton was a normal and healthy boy, but the discussions, the
debates, and the passions sweeping over the Union throughout the year
had sifted into Pendleton also.  The news today had merely struck fire
to tinder prepared already, and, infused with the spirit of youth,
he felt much excitement but no depression.  Making a careful toilet
he descended to the drawing room a little before the regular time.
Although he was early, his father was there before him, standing in his
customary attitude with his back to the hearth, and his hands clasped
behind him.

"Our guest will be down in a few minutes," said Colonel Kenton.  "He
comes from Charleston and his name is Raymond Louis Bertrand.  I will
explain how he is related to us."

He gave a chain of cousins extending on either side from the Kenton
family and the Bertrand family until they joined in the middle.  It was
a slender tie of kinship, but it sufficed in the South.  As he finished,
Bertrand himself came in, and was introduced formally to his Kentucky
cousin.  Harry would have taken him for a Frenchman, and he was, in very
truth, largely of French blood.  His black eyes and hair, his swarthy
complexion, gleaming white teeth and quick, volatile manner showed a
descendant of France who had come from the ancient soil by way of Hayti,
and the great negro rebellion to the coast of South Carolina.  He seemed
strange and foreign to Harry, and yet he liked him.

"And this is my young cousin, the one who is likely to be so zealous for
our cause," he said, smiling at Harry with flashing black eyes.  "You
are a stalwart lad.  They grow bigger and stronger here than on our warm
Carolina coast."

"Raymond arrived only three hours ago," said Colonel Kenton in
explanation.  "He came directly from Charleston, leaving only three
hours after the resolution in favor of secession was adopted."

"And a rough journey it was," said Bertrand vivaciously.  "I was
rattled and shaken by the trains, and I made some of the connections by
horseback over the wild hills.  Then it was a long ride through the snow
to your hospitable home here, my good cousin, Colonel Kenton.  But I had
minute directions, and no one noticed the stranger who came so quietly
around the town, and then entered your house."

Harry said nothing but watched him intently.  Bertrand spoke with a
rapid lightness and grace and an abundance of gesture, to which he was
not used in Kentucky.  He ate plentifully, and, although his manners
were delicate, Harry felt to an increasing degree his foreign aspect and
spirit.  He did not wonder at it when he learned later that Bertrand,
besides being chiefly of French blood, had also been educated in Paris.

"Was there much enthusiasm in South Carolina when the state seceded,
Raymond?" asked Colonel Kenton.

"I saw the greatest joy and confidence everywhere," he replied, the
color flaming through his olive face.  "The whole state is ablaze.
Charleston is the heart and soul of our new alliance.  Rhett and Yancey
of Alabama, and the great orators make the souls of men leap.  Ah, sir,
if you could only have been in Charleston in the course of recent
months!  If you could have heard the speakers!  If you could have
seen how the great and righteous Calhoun's influence lives after him!
And then the writers!  That able newspaper, the Mercury, has thundered
daily for our cause.  Simms, the novelist, and Timrod and Hayne, the
poets have written for it.  Let the cities of the North boast of their
size and wealth, but they cannot match Charleston in culture and spirit
and vivacity!"

Harry saw that Bertrand felt and believed every word he said, and his
enthusiasm was communicated to the colonel, whose face flushed, and to
Harry, too, whose own heart was beating faster.

"It was a great deed!" exclaimed Colonel Kenton.  "South Carolina has
always dared to speak her mind, but here in Kentucky some of the cold
North's blood flows in our veins and we pause to calculate and consider.
We must hasten events.  Now, Raymond, we will go into the library.
Our friends will be here in a half hour.  Harry, you are to stay with
us.  I told you that you are to be trusted."

They left the table, and went into the great room where the fire had
been built anew and was casting a ruddy welcome through the windows.
The two men sat down before the blaze and each fell silent, engrossed in
his thoughts.  Harry felt a pleased excitement.  Here was a great and
mysterious affair, but he was going to have admittance to the heart
of it.  He walked to the window, lifted the curtain and looked out.
A slender erect figure was already coming up the walk, and he recognized
Travers.

Travers knocked at the door and was received cordially.  Colonel Kenton
introduced Bertrand, saying:

"The messenger from the South."

Travers shook hands and nodded also to signify that he understood.
Then came Culver, the state senator from the district, a man of middle
years, bulky, smooth shaven, and oratorical.  He was followed soon by
Bracken, a tobacco farmer on a great scale, Judge Kendrick, Reid and
Wayne, both lawyers, and several others, all of wealth or of influence
in that region.  Besides Harry, there were ten in the room.

"I believe that we are all here now," said Colonel Kenton.  "I keep my
son with us because, for reasons that I will explain later, I shall
nominate him for the task that is needed."

"We do not question your judgment, colonel," said Senator Culver.
"He is a strong and likely lad.  But I suggest that we go at once to
business.  Mr. Bertrand, you will inform us what further steps are to be
taken by South Carolina and her neighboring states.  South Carolina may
set an example, but if the others do not follow, she will merely be a
sacrifice."

Bertrand smiled.  His smile always lighted up his olive face in a
wonderful way.  It was a smile, too, of supreme confidence.

"Do not fear," he said.  "Alabama, Mississippi, Florida and Louisiana
are ready.  We have word from them all.  It is only a matter of a few
days until every state in the lower south goes out, but we want also and
we need greatly those on the border, famous states like your Kentucky
and Virginia.  Do you not see how you are threatened?  With the triumph
of the rail-splitter, Lincoln, the seat of power is transferred to the
North.  It is not alone a question of slavery.  The balance of the
Union is destroyed.  The South loses leadership.  Her population is not
increasing rapidly, and hereafter she will merely hold the stirrup while
the North sits in the saddle."

A murmur arose from the men.  More than one clenched his hands, until
the nails pressed into the flesh.  Harry, still standing by the window,
felt the influence of the South Carolinian's words more deeply perhaps
than any other.  The North appeared to him cold, jealous, and vengeful.

"You are right about Kentucky and Virginia," said Senator Culver.
"The secession of two such strong states would strike terror in the
North.  It would influence the outside world, and we would be in a far
better position for war, if it should come.  Governor Magoffin will have
to call a special session of the legislature, and I think there will
be enough of us in both Senate and House to take Kentucky out."

Bertrand's dark face glowed.

"You must do it!  You must do it!" he exclaimed.  "And if you do our
cause is won!"

There was a thoughtful silence, broken at last by Colonel Kenton,
who turned an inquiring eye upon Bertrand.

"I wish to ask you about the Knights of the Golden Circle," he said.
"I hear that they are making great headway in the Gulf States."

Raymond hesitated a moment.  It seemed that he, too, felt for the first
time a difference between himself and these men about him who were so
much less demonstrative than he.  But he recovered his poise quickly.

"I speak to you frankly," he replied.  "When our new confederation is
formed, it is likely to expand.  A hostile union will lie across our
northern border, but to the south the way is open.  There is our field.
Spain grows weak and the great island of Cuba will fall from her grasp.
Mexico is torn by one civil war after another.  It is a grand country,
and it would prosper mightily in strong hands.  Beyond lie the unstable
states of Central America, also awaiting good rulers."

Colonel Kenton frowned and the lawyers looked doubtful.

"I can't say that I like your prospect," the colonel said.  "It seems to
me that your knights of the Golden Circle meditate a great slave empire
which will eat its way even into South America.  Slavery is not wholly
popular here.  Henry Clay long ago wished it to be abolished, and his is
a mighty name among us.  It would be best to say little in Kentucky of
the Knights of the Golden Circle.  Our climate is a little too cold for
such a project."

Bertrand bit his lip.  Swift and volatile, he showed disappointment, but,
still swift and volatile, he recovered quickly.

"I have no doubt that you are right, Colonel Kenton," he said, in the
tone of one who conforms gracefully, "and I shall be careful when I go
to Frankfort with Senator Culver to say nothing about it."

But Harry, who watched him all the time, read tenacity and purpose in
his eyes.  This man would not relinquish his great southern dream,
a dream of vast dominion, and he had a powerful society behind him.

"What news, then, will you send to Charleston?" asked Bertrand at
length.  "Will you tell her that Kentucky, the state of great names,
will stand beside her?"

"Such a message shall be carried to her," replied Colonel Kenton,
speaking for them all, "and I propose that my son Harry be the
messenger.  These are troubled times, gentlemen, and full of peril.
We dare not trust to the mails, and a lad, carrying letters, would
arouse the least suspicion.  He is strong and resourceful.  I, his
father, should know best and I am willing to devote him to the cause."

Harry started when he heard the words of his father, and his heart gave
a great leap of mingled surprise and joy.  Such a journey, such an
enterprise, made an instant appeal to his impulsive and daring spirit.
But he did not speak, waiting upon the words of his elders.  All of them
looked at him, and it seemed to Harry that they were measuring him,
both body and mind.

"I have known your boy since his birth," said Senator Culver, "and he
is all that you say.  There is none stronger and better.  The choice is
good."

"Good!  Aye, good indeed!" said the impetuous Bertrand.  "How they will
welcome him in Charleston!"

"Then, gentlemen," said Colonel Kenton, very soberly, "you are all
agreed that my son shall carry to South Carolina the message that
Kentucky will follow her out of the Union?"

"We are," they said, all together.

"I shall be glad and proud to go," said Harry, speaking for the first
time.

"I knew it without asking you," said Colonel Kenton.  "I suggest to you,
friends, that he start before dawn, and that he go to Winton instead
of the nearest station.  We wish to avoid observation and suspicion.
The fewer questions he has to answer, the better it will be for all of
us."

They agreed with him again, and, in order that he might be fresh and
strong for his journey, Harry was sent to his bedroom.  Everything
would be made ready for him, and Colonel Kenton would call him at the
appointed hour.  As he withdrew he bade them in turn good night, and
they returned his courtesy gravely.

It was one thing to go to his room, but it was another to sleep.
He undressed and sat on the edge of the bed.  Only when he was alone did
he realize the tremendous change that had come into his life.  Nor into
his life alone, but into the lives of all he knew, and of millions more.

It had ceased snowing and the wind was still.  The earth was clothed
in deep and quiet white, and the pines stood up, rows of white cones,
silvered by the moonlight.  Nothing moved out there.  No sound came.
He felt awed by the world of night, and the mysterious future which must
be full of strange and great events.

He lay down between the covers and, although sleep was long in coming,
it came at last and it was without dreams.



CHAPTER II

A COURIER TO THE SOUTH


Harry was awakened by his father shaking his shoulder.  It was yet dark
outside, but a small lamp burned on his table.

"It is time for you to go, Harry," said Colonel Kenton, somewhat
unsteadily.  "Your horse, bridle and saddle on, is waiting.  Your
breakfast has been cooked for you, and everything else is ready."

Harry dressed rapidly in his heaviest and warmest clothing.  He and his
father ate breakfast by lamplight, and when he finished it was not yet
dawn.  Then the Colonel himself brought him his overcoat, comforter,
overshoes, and fur cap.

"The saddlebags are already on your horse," he said, "and they are
filled with the things you will need.  In this pocket-book you will
find five hundred dollars, and here is, also, an order on a bank in
Charleston for more.  See that you keep both money and order safely.
I trust to you to spend the money in the proper manner."

Harry put both in an inside pocket of his waistcoat, and then his father
handed him a heavy sealed letter.

"This you must guard with your life," he said.  "It is not addressed
to anybody, but you can give it to Senator Yancey, who is probably
in Charleston, or Governor Pickens, of South Carolina, or General
Beauregard, who, I understand, is coming to command the troops there,
and whom I knew in former days, or to General Ripley.  It contains
Kentucky's promise to South Carolina, and it is signed by many of us.
And now, Harry, let prudence watch over action.  It is no common errand
upon which you ride."

The colonel walked with him to the gate where the horse stood.  Harry
did not know who had brought the animal there, but he believed that his
father had done so with his own hand.  The boy sprang into the saddle,
Colonel Kenton gave him a strong grasp of the hand, undertook to say
something but, as he did so, the words choked in his throat, and he
walked hastily toward the house.

Harry spoke to his horse, but a hundred yards away, before he came to
the first curve in the road, he stopped and looked back.  Colonel Kenton
was standing in the doorway, his figure made bright in the moonlight.
Harry waved his hand and a hand was waved in return.  Tears arose to his
own eyes, but he was youth in the saddle, with the world before him,
and the mist was gone quickly.

The snow was six or eight inches deep, and lay unbroken in the road.
But the horse was powerful, shod carefully for snow and ice, and Harry
had been almost from infancy an expert rider.  His spirits rose.
He had no fear of the stillness and the dark.  But one could scarcely
call it the dark, since brilliant stars rode high in a bright blue
heaven, and the forest on either side of him was a vast and intricate
tracery of white touched with silver.

He examined his saddle bags, and found in them a silver-mounted pistol
and cartridges which he transferred to his belt.  The line of the
mountains lay near the road, and he remembered Bill Skelly and those
like him.  The weapon gave him new strength.  Skelly and his comrades
might come on any pretext they chose.

The road lay straight toward the south, edged on either side by forest.
Now and then he passed a silent farm house, set back among the trees,
and once a dog barked, but there was no sound, save the tread of the
horse's feet in the snow, and his occasional puff when he blew the steam
from his nostrils.  Harry did not feel the cold.  The heavy overcoat
protected his body, and the strong action of the heart, pouring the
blood in a full tide through his veins, kept him warm.

The east whitened.  Dawn came.  Thin spires of smoke began to rise from
distant houses in the woods or fields.  Harry was already many miles
from Pendleton, and then something rose in his throat again.  He
remembered his father standing in the portico, and, strangely enough,
the Tacitus lying in his locked desk at the academy.  But he crushed
it down.  His abounding youth made him consider as weak and unworthy,
an emotion which a man would merely have reckoned as natural.

The station at Winton was a full twenty miles from Pendleton and,
with such heavy snow, Harry did not expect to arrive until late in the
afternoon.  Nor would there be any need for him to get there earlier,
as no train for Nashville reached that place until half past six in the
evening.  His horse showed no signs of weariness, but he checked his
speed, and went on at an easy walk.

The road curved nearer to a line of blue hills, which sloped gradually
upward for scores of miles, until they became mountains.  All were
clothed with forest, and every tree was heavy with snow.  A line between
the trees showed where a path turned off from the main road and entered
the hills.  As Harry approached it, he heard the crunching of horses'
hoofs in the snow.  A warning instinct caused him to urge his own horse
forward, just as four riders came into view.

He saw that the men in the saddles, who were forty or fifty yards away,
were mountaineers, like Skelly.  They wore fur caps; heavy blanket
shawls were drooped about their shoulders and every one carried a rifle.
As soon as they saw the boy they shouted to him to halt.

Harry's alert senses took alarm.  They must have gained some knowledge
of his errand and its nature.  Perhaps word had been sent from Pendleton
by those who were arraying themselves on the other side that he be
intercepted.  When they cried to him to stop, he struck his horse
sharply, shouted to him, and bent far over against his neck.  Colonel
Kenton had chosen well.  The horse responded instantly.  He seemed to
gather his whole powerful frame compactly together, and shot forward.
The nearest mountaineer fired, but the bullet merely whistled where the
horse and rider had been, and sent snow flying from the bushes on the
other side of the road.  A second rifle cracked but it, too, missed the
flying target, and the mountaineers, turning into the main road, gave
pursuit.

Harry felt a cold shiver along his spine when the leading man pulled
trigger.  It was the first time in his life that any one had ever fired
upon him, and the shiver returned with the second shot.  And since they
had missed, confidence came.  He knew that they could not overtake him,
and they would not dare to pursue him long.  He glanced back.  They
were a full hundred yards in the rear, riding all four abreast.  He
remembered his own pistol, and, drawing it from his belt, he sent a
bullet toward the pursuit.  It was too long a range for serious work,
but he intended it as a warning that he, too, was armed and would fight.

The road still ran through the forest with the hills close on the left.
Up went the sun, casting a golden glory over the white earth.  Harry
beheld afar only a single spire of smoke.  The houses were few in that
region, and he might go four or five miles without seeing a single human
being, save those who pursued.  But he was not afraid.  His confidence
lay chiefly in the powerful animal that he rode, and he saw the distance
between him and the four men lengthen from a hundred to two hundred
yards.  One of them fired another shot at him, but it only shook the
snow from a tree fifteen feet away.  He could not keep from sending back
a taunting cry.

On went the sun up the curve of the heavens, and the brilliant light
grew.  The forest thinned away.  The line of hills retreated, and before
him lay fields, extending to both right and left.  The eye ranged over
a great distance and he counted the smoke of five farm houses.  He
believed that the men would not pursue him into the open country,
but he urged his horse to greater speed, and did not turn in his saddle
for a quarter of an hour.  When he finally looked back the mountaineers
were gone.  He could see clearly a half-mile, and he knew now that his
surmise had come true.  They dared to pursue only in the forest, and
having failed, they would withdraw into the hills.

He drew his horse down to a walk, patted his shoulder, and spoke to him
words of approval.  He was not sorry now that he had passed through the
adventure.  It would harden him to risks and dangers to come.  He made
up his mind, also, to say nothing about it.  He could send a warning
back from Winton, but the men in Pendleton knew how to protect
themselves, and the message might fall into wrong hands.

His journey continued in such peace that it was hard to believe men had
fired upon him, and in the middle of the afternoon he reached Winton.
He left his horse, saddle and bridle at a livery stable, stating that
they would be called for by Colonel Kenton, who was known throughout the
region, and sought food at the crude little wooden hotel.  He was glad
that he saw no one whom he knew, because, after the fashion of the
country, they would ask him many questions, and he felt relief, too,
when the train arrived.

Dark had already come when Harry entered the car.  There were no coaches
for sleepers, and he must make himself comfortable as best he could on
the red plush seat, sprinkled thickly with ashes and cinders from the
engine.  Fortunately, he had the seat alone, although there were many
people in the car.

The train, pouring out a huge volume of black smoke, pulled out of the
station with a great clatter that never ceased.  Now Harry felt an ebb
of the spirits and melancholy.  He was leaving behind Pendleton and all
that he had known.  In the day the excitement, the cold air, and the
free world about him had kept him up.  Now the swaying and jarring
of the train, crude like most others in that early time of railways,
gave him a sense of illness.  The window at his elbow rattled
incessantly, and the ashes and cinders sifted in, blackening his face
and hands.  Three or four smoking lamps, hung from the ceiling, lighted
the car dimly, and disclosed but partly the faces of the people around
him.  Some were asleep already.  Others ate their suppers from baskets.
Harry felt of his pockets at intervals to see that his money and letters
were safe, and he kept his saddle bags closely on the seat beside him.

The nausea created by the motion of the train passed away soon.  He put
his face against the dusty window pane and tried to see the country.
But he could catch only glimpses of snowy woods and fields, and, once
or twice, flashes of water as they crossed rivers.  The effort yielded
little, and he turned his attention to the people.  He noted only one
who differed in aspect from the ordinary country passenger.

A man of middle years sat rigidly erect at the far end of the car.
He wore a black hat, broad of brim, and all his clothing was black and
precise.  His face was shaven smoothly, save for a long gray mustache
with an upward curve.  While the people about him talked in a
miscellaneous fashion, he did not join them, and his manner did not
invite approach even in those easy times.

Harry was interested greatly.  The stranger presently opened a valise,
took out some food and ate delicately.  Then he drew a small silver
cup from the same valise, filled it at the drinking stand, drank and
returned it to the valise.  Without a crumb having fallen on clothing
or floor, he resumed his seat and gazed straight before him.

Harry's interest in the stranger increased.  He had a fine face, cut
clearly, and of a somewhat severe and melancholy cast.  Always he gazed
straight before him, and his mind seemed to be far from the people in
the car.  It was obvious that he was not the ordinary traveler, and the
boy spent some time in trying to guess his identity.  Then he gave it up,
because he was growing sleepy.

Excitement and the long physical strain were now telling upon Harry.
He leaned his head against the corner of the seat and the wall, drew his
overcoat as a blanket about his body and shoulders, and let his eyelids
droop.  The dim train grew dimmer, and he slept.

The train was due at Nashville between midnight and morning, and Harry
was awakened by the conductor a half hour before he reached the city.
He shook himself, put on his overcoat that he had used as a blanket,
and tried to look through the window.  He saw only darkness rushing past,
but he knew that he had left Kentucky behind, and it seemed to him that
he had come into an alien land, a land of future friends, no doubt,
but as yet, the land of the stranger.

All the people in the train were awakening, and were gathering their
baggage sleepily about them.  But the stranger, who drank from the
silver cup, seemed not to have been asleep at all.  He still sat rigidly
erect, and his melancholy look had not abated.  His valise lay on the
seat beside him.  Harry noticed that it was large and strong, with metal
clasps at the corners.

The engine was whistling already for Nashville, and Harry threw his
saddle bags over his arm.  He was fully awake now, alert and eager.
This town of Nashville was full of promise.  It had been the home of
the great Andrew Jackson, and it was one of the important cities of the
South, where cities were measured by influence rather than population,
because all, except New Orleans, were small.

As the train slowed down, Harry arose and stood in the aisle.  The
stranger also stood up, and Harry noticed that his bearing was military.
He looked around, his eyes met Harry's--perhaps he had been observing
him in the night--and he smiled.  It was a rare, illuminating smile that
made him wonderfully attractive, and Harry smiled back.  He did not know
it, but he was growing lonely, with the loneliness of youth, and he
wanted a friend.

"You are stopping in Nashville?" said the man with the friendliness of
the time.

"For a day only.  I am then going further south."

Harry had answered without hesitation.  He did not believe it possible
that this man could be planning anything against him or his errand.
The tall stranger looked upon him with approval.

"I noticed you in the train last night when you slept," he said,
speaking in the soft, musical accents of the seaboard South.  "Your
sleep was very deep, almost like collapse.  You showed that you had
been through great physical and mental strain, and even before you
fell asleep your anxious look indicated that you rode on an errand
of importance."

Harry gazed at him in surprise, mingled with a little alarm.  The
strange man laughed musically and with satisfaction.

"I am neither a detective nor a conspirator," he said.  "These are times
when men travel upon anxious journeys.  I go upon one myself, but since
we are in Tennessee, well south of the Mason and Dixon line, I make no
secret of it.  I am Leonidas Talbot, of South Carolina, until a week ago
a colonel in the American army, but now bound for my home in Charleston.
You boarded this train at a station in Kentucky, either the nearest or
among the nearest to Pendleton.  A resemblance, real or fancied, has
caused me to notice you closely."

The man was looking at him with frank blue eyes set well apart, and
Harry saw no need of concealing his identity.

"My name is Kenton, Henry Kenton--though people generally call me
Harry--and I live at Pendleton in Kentucky," he replied.

Now the smile of Leonidas Talbot, late colonel U. S. A., became rarely
sweet.

"I should have guessed it," he said.  "The place where you joined us and
the strong resemblance should have made me know.  You must be the son of
Colonel George Kenton."

"Yes," said Harry.

"Then, young sir, let me shake your hand."

His manner seemed so warm and natural that Harry held out his hand,
and Colonel Talbot gave it a strong clasp.

"Your father and I have served together," he said.  "We were in the
same class at West Point, and we fought in the same command against the
Indians on the plains.  I saw him again at Cerro Gordo, and we were side
by side at Contreras, Molino del Rey, and the storming of Chapultepec.
He left the service some time after we came back from Mexico, but I
remained in it, until--recent events.  It is fitting that I should meet
his son here, when we go upon errands which are, perhaps, similar in
nature.  I infer that your destination is Charleston!"

"Yes," said Harry impulsively, and he was not sorry that he had obeyed
the impulse.

"Then we shall go together," said Colonel Talbot.  "I take it that many
other people are now on their way to this same city of Charleston,
which since the secession of South Carolina has become the most famous
in the Union."

"I shall be glad if you will take me with you," said Harry.  "I know
little of Charleston and the lower South, and I need company."

"Then we will go to a hotel," said Colonel Talbot.  "On a journey like
this two together are better than one alone.  I know Nashville fairly
well, and while it is of the undoubted South, it will be best for us,
while we are here, to keep quiet tongues in our heads.  We cannot get a
train out of the city until the afternoon."

They were now in the station and everybody was going out.  It was not
much past midnight, and a cold wind blowing across the hills and the
Cumberland River made Harry shiver in his overcoat.  Once more he was
glad of his new comradeship with a man so much his superior in years and
worldly wisdom.

Snow lay on the ground, but not so deep as in Kentucky.  Houses, mostly
of wood, and low, showed dimly through the dusk.  No carriages met the
train, and the people were melting away already to their destinations.

"I'll lead the way," said Colonel Talbot.  "I know the best hotel,
and for travelers who need rest the best is always none too good."

He led briskly through the silent and lonely streets, until they came
to a large brick building with several lights shining from the wide and
open door.  They entered the lobby of the hotel, one carrying his saddle
bags, the other his valise, and registered in the book that the sleepy
clerk shoved toward them.  Several loungers still sat in cane-bottomed
chairs along the wall, and they cast curious glances at Harry and the
colonel.

The hotel was crowded, the clerk said.  People had been crowding into
town in the last few days, as there was a great stir in the country
owing to the news from Charleston.  He could give them only one room,
but it had two beds.

"It will do," said the colonel, in his soft but positive voice.  "My
young friend and I have been traveling hard and we need rest."

Harry would have preferred a room alone, but his trust in Colonel Talbot
had already become absolute.  This man must be what he claimed to be.
There was no trace of deceit about him.  His heart had never before
warmed so much to a stranger.

Colonel Talbot closed and locked the door of their room.  It was a large
bare apartment with two windows overlooking the town, and two small beds
against opposite walls.  The colonel put his valise at the foot of one
bed, and walked to the window.  The night had lightened somewhat and he
saw the roofs of buildings, the dim line of the yellow river, and the
dusky haze of hills beyond.  He turned his head and looked steadily in
the direction in which lay Charleston.  A look of ineffable sadness
overspread his face.

The light on the table was none too bright, but Harry saw Colonel
Talbot's melancholy eyes, and he could not refrain from asking:

"What's the trouble, colonel?"

The South Carolinian turned from the window, sat down on the edge of the
bed and smiled.  It was an illuminating smile, almost the smile of youth.

"I'm afraid that everything's the matter, Harry, boy," he said.  "South
Carolina, the state that I love even more than the Union to which it
belongs, or belonged, has gone out, and, Harry, because I'm a son of
South Carolina I must go with it--and I don't want to go.  But I've been
a soldier all my life.  I know little of politics.  I have grown up with
the feeling that I must stay with my people through all things.  I must
be kin by blood to half the white people in Charleston.  How could I
desert them?"

"You couldn't," said Harry emphatically.

Colonel Leonidas Talbot smiled.  It is possible that, at the moment,
he wished for the sanguine decision of youth, which could choose a side
and find only wrong in the other.

"In my heart," he continued, "I do not wish to see the Union broken up,
although the violence of New England orators and the raid of John Brown
has appalled me.  But, Harry, pay good heed to me when I say it is not a
mere matter of going out of the Union.  It may not be possible for South
Carolina and the states that follow her to stay out."

"I don't understand you," said the boy.

"It means war!  It means war, as surely as the rising of the sun in the
morning.  Many think that it does not; that the new republic will be
formed in peace, but I know better.  A great and terrible war is coming.
Many of our colored people in Charleston and along the Carolina coast
came by the way of the West Indies.  They have strange superstitions.
They believe that some of their number have the gift of second sight.
In my childhood I knew two old women who claimed the power, and they
gave apparent proofs that were extraordinary.  I feel just now as if I
had the gift myself, and I tell you, Harry, although you can see only a
dark horizon from the window, I see one that is blood red all the way
to the zenith.  Alas, our poor country!"

Harry stared at him in amazement.  The colonel, although he had called
his name, seemed to have forgotten his presence.  A vivid and powerful
imagination had carried him not only from the room, but far into the
future.  He recovered himself with an abrupt little shrug of the
shoulders.

"I am too old a man to be talking such foolishness to a boy," he said,
briskly.  "To bed, Harry!  To bed!  Your sleep on the train was brief
and you need more!  So do I!"

Harry undressed quickly, and put himself under the covers, and the
colonel also retired, although somewhat more leisurely.  The boy could
not sleep for some time.  One vision was present in his mind, that of
Charleston, the famous city to which they were going.  The effect of
Colonel Talbot's ominous words had worn off.  He would soon see the city
which had been so long a leader in Southern thought and action, and he
would see, too, the men who had so boldly taken matters in their own
hands.  He admired their courage and daring.

It was late when Harry awoke, and the colonel was already up and
dressed.  But the man waited quietly until the boy was dressed also,
and they went down to breakfast together.  Despite the lateness of
the hour the dining-room was still crowded, and the room buzzed with
animated talk.  Harry knew very well that Charleston was the absorbing
topic, just as it had been the one great thought in his own mind.
The people about him seemed to be wholly of Southern sympathies, and
he knew very well that Tennessee, although she might take her own time
about it, would follow South Carolina out of the Union.

They found two vacant seats at a table, where three men already sat.
One was a member of the Legislature, who talked somewhat loudly; the
second was a country merchant of middle age, and the third was a young
man of twenty-five, who had very little to say.  The legislator, whose
name was Ramsay, soon learned Colonel Talbot's identity, and he would
have proclaimed it to everybody about him, had not the colonel begged
him not to do so.

"But you will at least permit me to shake your hand, Colonel Talbot,"
he said.  "One who can give up his commission in the army and come back
to us as you have done is the kind of man we need."

Colonel Talbot gave a reluctant hand.

"I am proud to have felt the grasp of one who will win many honors in
the coming war," said Ramsay.

"Or more likely fill a grave," said Colonel Talbot, dryly.

The silent young man across the table looked at the South Carolinian
with interest, and Harry in his turn examined this stranger.  He was
built well, shaven smoothly, and did not look like a Tennesseean.
His thin lips, often pressed closely together, seemed to indicate a
capacity for silence, but when he saw Harry looking at him he smiled
and said:

"I gather from your conversation that you are going to Charleston.
All southern roads seem to lead to that town, and I, too, am going
there.  My name is Shepard, William J. Shepard, of St. Louis."

Colonel Talbot turned a measuring look upon him. It was so intent and
comprehensive that the young man flushed slightly, and moved a little in
his seat.

"So you are from St. Louis?" said the colonel.  "That is a great city,
and you must know something about the feeling there.  Can you tell me
whether Missouri will go out?"

"I cannot," replied Shepard.  "No man can.  But many of us are at work."

"What do you think?" persisted Colonel Talbot.

"I am hoping.  Missouri is really a Southern state, the daughter of
Kentucky, and she ought to join her Southern sisters.  As the others
go out one by one, I think she will follow.  The North will not fight,
and we will form a peaceful Southern republic."

Colonel Leonidas Talbot of South Carolina swept him once more with that
intent and comprehensive gaze.

"The North will fight," he said.  "As I told my young friend here last
night, a great and terrible war is coming."

"Do you think so?" asked Shepard, and it seemed to Harry that his tone
had become one of overwhelming interest.  "Then Charleston, as its
center and origin, ought to be ready.  How are they prepared there for
defense?"

Colonel Talbot's eyes never left Shepard's face and a faint pink tint
appeared again in the young man's cheeks.

"There are the forts--Sumter, Moultrie, Johnson and Pinckney," replied
the South Carolinian, "and I heard to-day that they are building
earthworks, also.  All are helping and it is said that Toutant
Beauregard is going there to take command."

"A good officer," said Shepard, musingly.  "I believe you said you were
leaving for Charleston this afternoon?"

"No, I did not say when," replied Colonel Talbot, somewhat sharply.
"It is possible that Harry and I may linger a while in Nashville.
They do not need us yet in Charleston, although their tempers are pretty
warm.  There has been so much fiery talk, cumulative for so many years,
that they regard northern men with extremely hostile eyes.  It would not
take much to cause trouble."

Colonel Talbot continued to gaze steadily at Shepard, but the Missourian
looked down into his plate.  It seemed to Harry that there was some sort
of play between them, or rather a thread of suspicion, a fine thread
in truth, but strong enough to sustain something.  He could see, too,
that Colonel Talbot was giving Shepard a warning, a warning, veiled and
vague, but nevertheless a warning.  But the boy liked Shepard.  His face
seemed to him frank and honest, and he would have trusted him.

They rose presently and went into the lobby, where the colonel evaded
Shepard, as the place was now crowded.  More news had come from
Charleston and evidently it was to their liking.  There was a great
amount of talk.  Many of the older men sprinkled their words with
expressive oaths.  The oaths came so naturally that it seemed to be a
habit with them.  They chewed tobacco freely, and now and then their
white shirt fronts were stained with it.  All those who seemed to be of
prominence wore long black coats, waistcoats cut low, and trousers of
a lighter color.

Near the wall stood a man of heavy build with a great shaggy head and
thick black hair all over his face.  He was dressed in a suit of rough
gray jeans, with his trousers stuffed into high boots.  He carried in
his right hand a short, thick riding whip, with which he occasionally
switched the tops of his own boots.

Harry spoke to him civilly, after the custom of the time and place.
He took him for a mountaineer, and he judged by the heavy whip he
carried, that he was a horse or cattle trader.

"They talk of Charleston," said Harry.

"Yes, they talk an' talk," said the man, biting his words, "an' they do
nothin'."

"You think they ought to take Tennessee out right away?"

"No, I'm ag'in it.  I don't want to bust up this here Union.  But I
reckon Tennessee is goin' out, an' most all the other Southern states
will go out, too.  I 'low the South will get whipped like all tarnation,
but if she does I'm a Southerner myself, an' I'll have to git whipped
along with her.  But talkin' don't do no good fur nobody.  If the South
goes out, it's hittin' that'll count, an' them that hits fastest,
hardest, truest an' longest will win."

The man was rough in appearance and illiterate in speech, but his
manner impressed Harry in an extraordinary manner.  It was direct and
wonderfully convincing.  The boy recognized at once a mind that would
steer straight through things toward its goal.

"My name is Harry Kenton," he said politely.  "I'm from Kentucky,
and my father used to be a colonel in the army."

"Mine," said the mountaineer, "is Nat Forrest, Nathan Bedford Forrest
for full and long.  I'm a trader in live stock, an' I thought I'd look
in here at Nashville an' see what the smart folks was doin'.  I'd tell
'em not to let Tennessee go out of the Union, but they wouldn't pay any
'tention to a hoss-tradin' mountaineer, who his neighbors say can't
write his name."

"I'm glad to meet you, Mr. Forrest," said Harry, "but I'm afraid we're
on different sides of the question."

"Mebbe we are 'til things come to a head," said the mountaineer,
laughing, "but, as I said, if Tennessee goes out, I reckon I'll go with
her.  It's hard to go ag'in your own gang.  Leastways, 't ain't in me
to do it. Now I've had enough of this gab, an' I'm goin' to skip out.
Good-bye, young feller.  I wish you well."

Bringing his whip once more, and sharply this time, across the tops of
his own boots, he strode out of the hotel.  His walk was like his talk,
straight and decisive.  Harry saw Shepard in the lobby making friends,
but, imitating his older comrade, he avoided him, and late that
afternoon Colonel Talbot and he left for Charleston.



CHAPTER III

THE HEART OF REBELLION


Harry, with his friend Colonel Leonidas Talbot, approached Charleston
on Christmas morning.  It was a most momentous day to him.  As he came
nearer, the place looked greater and greater.  He had read much about
it in the books in his father's house--old tales of the Revolution and
stories of its famous families--and now its name was in the mouths of
all men.

He had felt a change in his own Kentucky atmosphere at Nashville,
but it had become complete when he drew near to Charleston.  It was a
different world, different alike in appearance and in thought.  The
contrast made the thrill all the keener and longer.  Colonel Talbot,
also, was swayed by emotion, but his was that of one who was coming home.

"I was born here, and I passed my boyhood here," he said.  "I could not
keep from loving it if I would, and I would not if I could.  Look how
the cold North melts away.  See the great magnolias, the live oaks,
and the masses of shrubbery!  Harry, I promise you that you shall have
a good time in this Charleston of ours."

They had left the railroad some distance back, and had come in by stage.
The day was warm and pleasant.  Two odors, one of flowers and foliage,
and the other of the salt sea, reached Harry.  He found both good.
He felt for the thousandth time of his pocket-book and papers to see that
they were safe, and he was glad that he had come, glad that he had been
chosen for such an important errand.

The colonel asked the driver to stop the stage at a cross road, and he
pointed out to Harry a low, white house with green blinds, standing on a
knoll among magnificent live oaks.

"That is my house, Harry," he said, "and this is Christmas Day.  Come
and spend it with me there."

Harry felt to the full the kindness of Colonel Leonidas Talbot, for whom
he had formed a strong affection.  The colonel seemed to him so simple,
so honest and, in a way, so unworldly, that he had won his heart almost
at once.  But he felt that he should decline, as his message must be
delivered as soon as he arrived in Charleston.

"I suppose you are right," said the colonel, when the boy had explained
why he could not accept.  "You take your letters to the gentlemen who
are going to make the war, and then you and I and others like us,
ranging from your age to mine, will have to fight it."

But Harry was not to be discouraged.  He could not see things in a gray
light on that brilliant Christmas morning.  Here was Charleston before
him and in a few hours he would be in the thick of great events.
A thrill of keen anticipation ran through all his veins.  The colonel
and he stood by the roadside while the obliging driver waited.  He
offered his hand, saying good-bye.

"It's only for a day," said Colonel Leonidas Talbot, as he gave the
hand a strong clasp.  "I shall be in Charleston tomorrow, and I shall
certainly see you."

Harry sprang back to his place and the stage rolled joyously into
Charleston.  Harry saw at once that the city was even more crowded than
Nashville had been.  Its population had increased greatly in a few weeks,
and he could feel the quiver of excitement in the air.  Citizen soldiers
were drilling in open places, and other men were throwing up earthworks.

He left the stage and carried over his arm his baggage, which still
consisted only of a pair of saddle bags.  He walked to an old-fashioned
hotel which Colonel Talbot had selected for him as quiet and good,
and as he went he looked at everything with a keen and eager interest.
The deep, mellow chiming of bells, from one point and then from another,
came to his ears.  He knew that they were the bells of St. Philip's and
St. Michael's, and he looked up in admiration at their lofty spires.
He had often heard, in far Kentucky, of these famous churches and their
silver chimes.

It seemed to Harry that the tension and excitement of the people in the
streets were of a rather pleasant kind.  They had done a great deed, and,
keyed to a high pitch by their orators and newspapers, they did not fear
the consequences.  The crowd seemed foreign to him in many aspects,
Gallic rather than American, but very likeable.

He reached his hotel, a brick building behind a high iron fence, kept by
a woman of olive complexion, middle years, and pleasant manners, Madame
Josephine Delaunay.  She looked at him at first with a little doubt,
because it was a time in Charleston when one must inspect strangers,
but when he mentioned Colonel Leonidas Talbot she broke into a series of
smiles.

"Ah, the good colonel!" she exclaimed.  "We were children at school
together, but since he became a soldier he has gone far from here.
And has he returned to fight for his great mother, South Carolina?"

"He has come back.  He has resigned from the army, and he is here to do
South Carolina's bidding."

"It is like him," said Madame Delaunay.  "Ah, that Leonidas, he has a
great soul!"

"I travelled with him from Nashville to Charleston," said Harry, "and I
learned to like and admire him."

He had established himself at once in the good graces of Madame Delaunay
and she gave him a fine room overlooking a garden, which in season
was filled with roses and oranges.  Even now, pleasant aromatic odors
came to him through the open window.  He had been scarcely an hour in
Charleston but he liked it already.  The old city breathed with an ease
and grace to which he was unused.  The best name that he knew for it was
fragrance.

He had a suit of fresh clothing in his saddle bags, and he arrayed
himself with the utmost neatness and care.  He felt that he must do so.
He could not present himself in rough guise to a people who had every
right to be fastidious.  He would also obtain further clothing out of
the abundant store of money, as his father had wished him to make a good
appearance and associate with the best.

He descended, and found Madame Delaunay in the garden, where she gave
him welcome, with grave courtesy.  She seemed to him in manner and
bearing a woman of wealth and position, and not the keeper of an inn,
doing most of the work with her own hands.  He learned later that the
two could go together in Charleston, and he learned also, that she was
the grand-daughter of a great Haytian sugar planter, who had fled from
the island, leaving everything to the followers of Toussaint l'Ouverture,
glad to reach the shores of South Carolina in safety.

Madame Delaunay looked with admiration at the young Kentuckian, so tall
and powerful for his age. To her, Kentucky was a part of the cold North.

"Can you tell me where I am likely to find Senator Yancey?" asked Harry.
"I have letters which I must deliver to him, and I have heard that he is
in Charleston."

"There is to be a meeting of the leaders this afternoon in St. Anthony's
Hall in Broad street.  You will surely find him there, but you must have
your luncheon first.  I think you must have travelled far."

"From Kentucky," replied Harry, and then he added impulsively: "I've
come to join your people, Madame Delaunay.  South Carolina has many and
powerful friends in the Upper South."

"She will need them," said Madame Delaunay, but with no tone of
apprehension.  "This, however, is a city that has withstood much fire
and blood and it can withstand much more.  Now I'll leave you here
in the garden.  Come to luncheon at one, and you shall meet my other
guests."

Harry sat down on a little wooden bench beneath a magnolia.  Here in the
garden the odor of grass and foliage was keen, and thrillingly sweet.
This was the South, the real South, and its warm passions leaped up in
his blood.  Much of the talk that he had been hearing recently from
those older than he passed through his mind.  The Southern states did
have a right to go if they chose, and they were being attacked because
their prominence aroused jealousy.  Slavery was a side issue, a mere
pretext.  If it were not convenient to hand, some other excuse would be
used.  Here in Charleston, the first home of secession, among people who
were charming in manner and kind, the feeling was very strong upon him.

He left the house after luncheon, and, following Madame Delaunay's
instructions, came very quickly to St. Andrew's hall in Broad street,
where five days before, the Legislature of South Carolina, after
adjourning from Columbia, had passed the ordinance of secession.

Two soldiers in the Palmetto uniform were on guard, but they quickly let
him pass when he showed his letters to Senator Yancey.  Inside, a young
man, a boy, in fact, not more than a year older than himself, met him.
He was slender, dark and tall, dressed precisely, and his manner had
that easy grace which, as Harry had noticed already, seemed to be the
characteristic of Charleston.

"My name is Arthur St. Clair," he said, "and I'm a sort of improvised
secretary for our leaders who are in council here."

"Mine," said Harry, "is Henry Kenton.  I'm a son of Colonel George
Kenton, of Kentucky, late a colonel in the United States Army, and I've
come with important messages from him, Senator Culver and other Southern
leaders in Kentucky."

"Then you will be truly welcome.  Wait a moment and I'll see if they are
ready to receive you."

He returned almost instantly, and asked Harry to go in with him.
They entered a large room, with a dais at the center of the far wall,
and a number of heavy gilt chairs covered with velvet ranged on either
side of it.  Over the dais hung a large portrait of Queen Victoria as a
girl in her coronation robes.  A Scotch society had occupied this room,
but the people of Charleston had always taken part in their festivities.
In those very velvet chairs the chaperons had sat while the dancing had
gone on in the hall.  Then the leaders of secession had occupied them,
when they put through their measure, and now they were sitting there
again, deliberating.

A man of middle years and of quick, eager countenance arose when young
St. Clair came in with Harry.

"Mr. Yancey," said St. Clair, "this is Henry Kenton, the son of Colonel
George Kenton, who has come from Kentucky with important letters."

Yancey gave him his hand and a welcome, and Harry looked with intense
interest at the famous Alabama orator, who, with Slidell, of South
Carolina, and Toombs of Georgia, had matched the New England leaders in
vehemence and denunciation.  Mr. Slidell, an older man, was present and
so was Mr. Jamison, of Barnwell, who had presided when secession was
carried.  There were more present, some prominent, others destined to
become so, and Harry was introduced to them one by one.

He gave his letters to Yancey and retired with young St. Clair to the
other end of the room, while the leaders read what had been written from
Kentucky.  Harry was learning to become a good observer, and he watched
them closely as they read.  He saw a look of pleasure come on the face
of every one, and presently Yancey beckoned to him.

"These are fine assurances," said the orator, "and they have been
brought by the worthy son of a worthy father.  Colonel Kenton, Senator
Culver and others, have no doubt that Kentucky will go out with us.
Now you are a boy, but boys sometimes see and hear more than men,
and you are old enough to think; that is, to think in the real sense.
Tell us, what is your own opinion?"

Harry flushed, and paused in embarrassment.

"Go on," said Mr. Yancey, persuasively.

"I do not know much," said Harry slowly, wishing not to speak, but
feeling that he was compelled by Mr. Yancey to do so, "but as far as I
have seen, Kentucky is sorely divided.  The people on the other side
are perhaps not as strong and influential as ours, but they are more
numerous."

A shade passed over the face of Yancey, but he quickly recovered his
good humor.

"You have done right to tell us the truth as you see it," he said,
"but we need Kentucky badly.  We must have the state and we will get it.
Did you hear anything before you left, of one Raymond Bertrand, a South
Carolinian?"

"He was at my father's house before I came away.  I think it was his
intention to go from there to Frankfort with some of our own people,
and assist in taking out the state."

Yancey smiled.

"Faithful to his errand," he said.  "Raymond Bertrand is a good lad.
He has visions, perhaps, but they are great ones, and he foresees a
mighty republic for us extending far south of our present border.
But now that you have accomplished your task, what do you mean to do,
Mr. Kenton?"

"I want to stay here," replied Harry eagerly.  "This is the head and
center of all things.  I think my father would wish me to do so.
I'll enlist with the South Carolina troops and wait for what happens."

"Even if what happens should be war?"

"Most of all if it should be war.  Then I shall be one of those who will
be needed most."

"A right and proper spirit," said Mr. Jamison, of Barnwell.  "When we
can command such enthusiasm we are unconquerable.  Now, we'll not keep
you longer, Mr. Kenton.  This is Christmas Day, and one as young as you
are is entitled to a share of the hilarity.  Look after him, St. Clair."

Harry went out with young St. Clair, whom he was now calling by his
first name, Arthur.  He, too, was staying with Madame Delaunay, who was
a distant relative.

Harry ate Christmas dinner that evening with twenty people, many of
types new to him.  It made a deep impression upon him then, and one yet
greater afterward, because he beheld the spirit of the Old South in its
inmost shrine, Charleston.  It seemed to him in later days that he had
looked upon it as it passed.

They sat in a great dining-room upon a floor level with the ground.
The magnolias and live oaks and the shrubs in the garden moved in the
gentle wind.  Fresh crisp air came through the windows, opened partly,
and brought with it, as Harry thought, an aroma of flowers blooming in
the farther south.  He sat with young St. Clair--the two were already
old friends--and Madame Delaunay was at the head of the table, looking
more like a great lady who was entertaining her friends than the keeper
of an inn.

Madame Delaunay wore a flowing white dress that draped itself in folds,
and a lace scarf was thrown about her shoulders.  Her heavy hair,
intensely black, was bound with a gold fillet, after a fashion that
has returned a half century later.  A single diamond sparkled upon her
finger.  She seemed to Harry foreign, handsome, and very distinguished.

About half the people in the room were of French blood, most of whom
Harry surmised were descendants of people who had fled from Hayti or
Santo Domingo.  One, Hector St. Hilaire, almost sixty, but a major in
the militia of South Carolina, soon proved that the boy's surmise was
right.  Lemonade and a mild drink called claret-sanger was served to
the boys, but the real claret was served to the major, as to the other
elders, and the mellowness of Christmas pervaded his spirit.  He drank a
toast to Madame Delaunay, and the others drank it with him, standing.
Madame Delaunay responded prettily, and, in a few words, she asked
protection and good fortune for this South Carolina which they all loved,
and which had been a refuge to the ancestors of so many of them.
As she sat down she looked up at the wall and Harry's glance followed
hers.  It was a long dining-room, and he saw there great portraits in
massive gilt frames.  They were of people French in look, handsome,
and dressed with great care and elaboration.  The men were in gay coats
and knee breeches, silk stockings and buckled shoes.  Small swords were
at their sides.  The women were even more gorgeous in velvet or heavy
satin, with their hair drawn high upon their heads and powdered.
One had a beauty patch upon her cheek.

Major St. Hilaire saw Harry's look as it sped along the wall.  He smiled
a little sadly and then, a little cheerfully:

"Those are the ancestors of Madame Delaunay," he said, "and some,
I may mention in passing, are my own, also.  Our gracious hostess and
myself are more or less distantly related--less, I fear--but I boast of
it, nevertheless, on every possible occasion.  They were great people in
a great island, once the richest colony of France, the richest colony
in all the world.  All those people whom you see upon the walls were
educated in Paris or other cities of France, and they returned to a life
upon the magnificent plantations of Hayti.  What has become of that
brightness and glory?  Gone like snow under a summer sun.  'Tis
nothing but the flower of fancy now.  The free black savage has made a
wilderness of Hayti, and our enemies in the North would make the same
of South Carolina."

A murmur of applause ran around the table.  Major St. Hilaire had spoken
with rhetorical effect and a certain undoubted pathos.  Every face
flushed, and Harry saw the tears glistening in the eyes of Madame
Delaunay who, despite her fifty years, looked very handsome indeed in
her white dress, with the glittering gold fillet about her great masses
of hair.

The boy was stirred powerfully.  His sensitive spirit responded at
once to the fervid atmosphere about him, to the color, the glow, the
intensity of a South far warmer than the one he had known.  Their
passions were his passions, and having seen the black and savage Hayti
of which Major St. Hilaire had drawn such a vivid picture, he shuddered
lest South Carolina and other states, too, should fall in the same way
to destruction.

"It can never happen!" he exclaimed, carried away by impulse.  "Kentucky
and Virginia and the big states of the Upper South will stand beside her
and fight with her!"

The murmur of applause ran around the table again, and Harry, blushing,
made himself as small as he could in his chair.

"Don't regret a good impulse.  Mr. Kenton," said a neighbor, a young
man named James McDonald--Harry had noticed that Scotch names seemed to
be as numerous as French in South Carolina--"the words that all of us
believe to be true leaped from your heart."

Harry did not speak again, unless he was addressed directly, but he
listened closely, while the others talked of the great crisis that was
so obviously approaching.  His interest did not make him neglect the
dinner, as he was a strong and hearty youth.  There were sweets for
which he did not care much, many vegetables, a great turkey, and venison
for which he did care, finishing with an ice and coffee that seemed to
him very black and bitter.

It was past eight o'clock when they rose and any lingering doubts that
Harry may have felt were swept away.  He was heart and soul with the
South Carolinians.  Those people in the far north seemed very cold and
hard to him.  They could not possibly understand.  One must be here
among the South Carolinians themselves to see and to know.

Harry went to his room, after a polite good-night to all the others.
He was not used to long and heavy dinners, and he felt the wish to rest
and take the measure of his situation.  He threw back the green blinds
and opened the window a little.  Once more the easy wind brought him
that odor of the far south, whether reality or fancy he could not say.
But he turned to another window and looked toward the north.  Away from
the others and away from a subtle persuasiveness that had been in the
air, some of his doubts returned.  It would not all be so easy.  What
were they doing in the far states beyond the Ohio?

He heard footsteps in the hail and a voice that seemed familiar.
He had left his door partly open, and, when he turned, he caught a
glimpse of a face that he knew.  It was young Shepard, whom he and Major
Talbot had met in Nashville.  Shepard saw Harry also, and saluted him
cheerfully.

"I've just arrived," he said, "and through letters from friends in
St. Louis, members of one of the old French families there, I've been
lucky enough to secure a room at Madame Delaunay's inn."

"Fortune has been with us both," said Harry, somewhat doubtfully,
but not knowing what else to say.

"It certainly has," said Shepard, with easy good humor.  "I'll see you
again in the morning and we'll talk of what we've been through, both of
us."

He walked briskly on and Harry heard his firm step ringing on the floor.
The boy retired to his own room again and locked the door.  He had liked
Shepard from the first.  He had seemed to him frank and open and no
one could deny his right to come to Charleston if he pleased.  And yet
Colonel Talbot, a man of a delicate and sensitive mind, which quickly
registered true impressions, had distrusted him.  He had even given
Harry a vague warning, which he felt that he could not ignore.  He made
up his mind that he would not see Shepard in the morning.  He would make
it a point to rise so early that he could avoid him.

His conclusion formed, he slept soundly until the first sunlight poured
in at the window that he had left open.  Then, remembering that he
intended to avoid Shepard, he jumped out of bed, dressed quickly and
went down to breakfast, which he had been told he could get as early
as he pleased.

Madame Delaunay was already there, still looking smooth and fresh in
the morning air.  But St. Clair was the only guest who was as early as
Harry.  Both greeted him pleasantly and hoped that he had slept well.
Their courtesy, although Harry had no doubt of its warmth, was slightly
more ornate and formal than that to which he had been used at home.
He recognized here an older society, one very ancient for the New World.

The breakfast was also different from the solid one that he always ate
at home.  It consisted of fruits, eggs, bread and coffee.  There was no
meat.  But he fared very well, nevertheless.  St. Clair, he now learned,
was a bank clerk, but after office hours he was drilling steadily in one
of the Charleston companies.

"If you enlist, come with me," he said to Harry.  "I can get you a place
on the staff, and that will suit you."

Harry accepted his offer gladly, although he felt that he could not take
up his new duties for a few days.  Matters of money and other things
were to be arranged.

"All right," said St. Clair.  "Take your time.  I don't think there's
any need to hurry."

Harry left Madame Delaunay's house immediately after breakfast, still
firm in his purpose to avoid Shepard, and went to the bank, on which
he held drafts properly attested.  Not knowing what the future held,
and inspired perhaps by some counsel of caution, he drew half of it
in gold, intending to keep it about his person, risking the chance of
robbery.  Then he went toward the bay, anxious to see the sea and those
famous forts, Sumter, Moultrie and the others, of which he had heard
so much.

It was a fine, crisp morning, one to make the heart of youth leap,
and he soon noticed that nearly the whole population of the city was
going with him toward the harbor.  St. Clair, who had departed for his
bank, overtook him, and it was evident to Harry that his friend was not
thinking much now of banks.

"What is it, Arthur?" asked Harry.

"They stole a march on us yesterday," replied St. Clair.  "See that dark
and grim mass rising up sixty feet or more near the center of the harbor,
the one with the Stars and Stripes flying so defiantly over it?  That's
Fort Sumter.  Yesterday, while we were enjoying our Christmas dinner and
talking of the things that we would do, Major Anderson, who commanded
the United States garrison in Fort Moultrie, quietly moved it over to
Sumter, which is far stronger.  The wives and children of the soldiers
and officers have been landed in the city with the request that we
send them to their homes in the states, which, of course, we will do.
But Major Anderson, who holds the fort in the name of the United States,
refuses to give it up to South Carolina, which claims it."

Harry felt an extraordinary thrill, a thrill that was, in many ways,
most painful.  Talk was one thing, action was another.  Here stood South
Carolina and the Union face to face, looking at each other through the
muzzles of cannon.  Sumter had one hundred and forty guns, most of which
commanded the city, and the people of Charleston had thrown up great
earthworks, mounting many cannon.

Boy as he was, Harry was old enough to see that here were all the
elements of a great conflagration.  It merely remained for somebody to
touch fire to the tow.  He was not one to sentimentalize, but the sight
of the defiant flag, the most beautiful in all the world, stirred him in
every fiber.  It was the flag under which both his father and Colonel
Talbot had fought.

"It has to be, Harry," said St. Clair, who was watching him closely.
"If it comes to a crisis we must fire upon it.  If we don't, the South
will be enslaved and black ignorance and savagery will be enthroned upon
our necks."

"I suppose so," said Harry.  "But look how the people gather!"

The Battery and all the harbor were now lined with the men, women and
children of Charleston.  Harry saw soldiers moving about Sumter, but no
demonstration of any kind occurred there.  He had not thought hitherto
about the garrison of the forts in Charleston harbor.  He recognized for
the first time that they might not share the opinions of Charleston,
and this name of Anderson was full of significance for him.  Major
Anderson was a Kentuckian.  He had heard his father speak of him; they
had served together, but it was now evident to Harry that Anderson would
not go with South Carolina.

"You'll see a small boat coming soon from Sumter," said St. Clair.
"Some of our people have gone over there to confer with Major Anderson
and demand that he give up the fort."

"I don't believe he'll do it," said Harry impulsively.  Some one touched
him upon the shoulder, and turning quickly he saw Colonel Leonidas
Talbot.  He shook the colonel's hand with vigor, and introduced him to
young St. Clair.

"I have just come into the city," said the colonel, "and I heard only
a few minutes ago that Major Anderson had removed his garrison from
Moultrie to Sumter."

"It is true," said St. Clair.  "He is defiant.  He says that he will
hold the fort for the Union."

"I had hoped that he would give up," said Colonel Talbot.  "It might
help the way to a composition."

He pulled his long mustache and looked somberly at the flag.  The wind
had risen a little, and it whipped about the staff.  Its fluttering
motions seemed to Harry more significant than ever of defiance.  He
understood the melancholy ring in Colonel Talbot's voice.  He, too,
like the boy's father, had fought under that flag, the same flag that
had led him up the flame-swept slopes of Cerro Gordo and Chapultepec.

"Here they come," exclaimed St. Clair, "and I know already the answer
that they bring!"

The small boat that he had predicted put out from Sumter and quickly
landed at the Battery.  It contained three commissioners, prominent men
of Charleston who had been sent to treat with Major Anderson, and his
answer was quickly known to all the crowd.  Sumter was the property
of the United States, not of South Carolina, and he would hold it for
the Union.  At that moment the wind strengthened, and the flag stood
straight out over the lofty walls of Sumter.

"I knew it would be so," said Colonel Talbot, with a sigh.  "Anderson is
that kind of a man.  Come, boys, we will go back into the city.  I am to
help in building the fortifications, and as I am about to make a tour of
inspection I will take you with me."

Harry found that, although secession was only a few days old, the work
of offense and defense was already far advanced.  The planters were
pouring into Charleston, bringing their slaves with them, and white
and black labored together at the earthworks.  Rich men, who had never
soiled their hands with toil before now, wielded pick and spade by the
side of their black slaves.  And it was rumored that Toutant Beauregard,
a great engineer officer, now commander at the West Point Military
Academy, would speedily resign, and come south to take command of the
forces in Charleston.

Strong works were going up along the mainland.  The South Carolina
forces had also seized Sullivan's Island, Morris Island, and James
Island and were mounting guns upon them all.  Circling batteries would
soon threaten Sumter, and, however defiantly the flag there might snap
in the breeze, it must come down.

As they were leaving the last of the batteries Harry noticed the broad,
strong back and erect figure of a young man who stood with his hands in
his pockets.  He knew by his rigid attitude that he was looking intently
at the battery and he knew, moreover, that it was Shepard.  He wished
to avoid him, and he wished also that his companion would not see him.
He started to draw Colonel Talbot away, but it was too late.  Shepard
turned at that moment, and the colonel caught sight of his face.

"That man here among our batteries!" he exclaimed in a menacing tone.

"Come away, colonel!" said Harry hastily.  "We don't know anything
against him!"

But Shepard himself acted first.  He came forward quickly, his hand
extended, and his eyes expressing pleasure.

"I missed you this morning, Mr. Kenton," he said.  "You were too early
for me, but we meet, nevertheless, in a place of the greatest interest.
And here is Colonel Talbot, too!"

Harry took the outstretched hand--he could not keep from liking
Shepard--but Colonel Talbot, by turning slightly, avoided it without
giving the appearance of brusqueness.  His courtesy, concerning which
the South Carolinians of his type were so particular, would not fail him,
and, while he avoided the hand, he promptly introduced Shepard and
St. Clair.

"I did not expect to find events so far advanced in Charleston," said
Shepard.  "With the Federal garrison concentrated in Sumter and the
batteries going up everywhere, matters begin to look dangerous."

"I suppose that you have made a careful examination of all the
batteries," said Colonel Talbot dryly.

"Casual, not careful," returned Shepard, in his usual cheerful tones.
"It is impossible, at such a time, to keep from looking at Sumter,
the batteries and all the other preparations.  We would not be human if
we didn't do it, and I've seen enough to know that the Yankees will have
a hot welcome if they undertake to interfere with Charleston."

"You see truly," said Colonel Talbot, with some emphasis.

"A happy chance has put me at the same place as Mr. Kenton," continued
Shepard easily.  "I have letters which admitted me to the inn of Madame
Delaunay, and I met him there last night.  We are likely to see much of
each other."

Colonel Leonidas Talbot raised his eyebrows.  When they walked a little
further he excused himself, saying that he was going to meet a committee
of defense at St. Andrew's Hall, and Harry and Arthur, after talking a
little longer with Shepard, left him near one of the batteries.

"I'm going to my bank," said St. Clair.  "I'm already long overdue,
but it will be forgiven at such a time as this.  And I must say, Harry,
that Colonel Talbot does not seem to like your acquaintance, Mr. Shepard."

"It is true, he doesn't, although I don't know just why," said Harry.

He saw Shepard at a distance three more times in the course of the day,
but he sedulously avoided a meeting.  He noticed that Shepard was always
near the batteries and earthworks, but hundreds of others were near them,
too.  He did not return to Madame Delaunay's until evening, when it
was time for dinner, where he found all the guests gathered, with the
addition of Shepard.

Madame Delaunay assigned the new man to a seat near the foot of the
table and the talk ran on much as it had done at the Christmas dinner,
Major St. Hilaire leading, which Harry surmised was his custom.  Shepard,
who had been introduced to the others by Madame Delaunay, did not have
much to say, nor did the South Carolinians warm to him as they had to
Harry.  A slight air of constraint appeared and Harry was glad when
the dinner was over.  Then he and St. Clair slipped away and spent the
evening roaming about the city, looking at the old historic places,
the fine churches, the homes of the wealthy and again at the earthworks
and the harbor forts.  The last thing Harry saw as he turned back toward
Madame Delaunay's was that defiant flag of the Union, still waving above
the dark and looming mass of old Sumter.

He was unlocking the door to his room when Shepard came briskly down the
hall, carrying his candle in his hand.

"I want to tell you good-bye, Mr. Kenton," he said, "I thought we were
to be together here at the inn for some time, but it is not to be so."

"What has happened?"

"It appears that my room had been engaged already by another man,
beginning tomorrow morning.  I was not informed of it when I came here,
but Madame Delaunay has recalled the fact and I cannot doubt the word
of a Charleston lady.  It appears also that no other room is vacant,
owing to the great number of people who have come into the city in the
last week or two.  So, I go."

He did not seem at all discouraged, his tone being as cheerful as ever,
and he held out his hand.  Harry liked this man, although it seemed that
others did not, and when he released the hand he said:

"Take good care of yourself, Mr. Shepard.  As I see it, the people of
Charleston are not taking to you, and we do not know what is going to
happen."

"Both statements are true," said Shepard with a laugh as he vanished
down the hail.  Nothing yet had been able to disturb his poise.

Harry went into his own room, and, throwing open his front window to let
in fresh air, he heard the hum of voices.  He looked down into a piazza
and he saw two figures there, a man and a woman.  They were Colonel
Talbot and Madame Delaunay.  He closed the blind promptly, feeling that
unconsciously he had touched upon something hallowed, the thread of
an old romance, a thread which, though slender, was nevertheless yet
strong.  Nor did he doubt that the suggestion of Colonel Leonidas Talbot
had caused the speedy withdrawal of Shepard.

Several more days passed.  Harry found that he was taken into the city's
heart, and its spell was very strong upon him.  He knew that much of his
welcome was due to the powerful influence of Colonel Leonidas Talbot and
to the warm friendship of Arthur St. Clair, who apparently was related
to everybody.  A letter came from his father, to whom he had written at
once of his purpose, giving his approval, and sending him more money.
Colonel Kenton wrote that he would come South himself, but he was needed
in Kentucky, where a powerful faction was opposing their plans.  He said
that Harry's cousin, Dick Mason, had joined the home guards, raised in
the interests of the old Union, and was drilling zealously.

The letter made the boy very thoughtful.  The news about his cousin
opened his eyes.  The line of cleavage between North and South was
widening into a gulf.  But his spirits rose when he enlisted in the
Palmetto Guards, and began to see active service.  His quickness and
zeal caused him to be used as a messenger, and he was continually
passing back and forth among the Confederate leaders in Charleston.
He also came into contact with the Union officers in Fort Sumter.

The relations of the town and the garrison were yet on a friendly basis.
Men were allowed to come ashore and to buy fresh meat, vegetables,
and other provisions.  Strict orders kept anyone from offering violence
or insult to them.  Harry saw Anderson once, but he did not give him his
name, deeming it best, because of the stand that he had taken, that no
talk should pass between them.

He picked up a copy of the Mercury one morning and saw that a steamer,
the Star of the West, was on its way to Charleston from a northern
port with supplies for the garrison in Fort Sumter.  He read the brief
account, threw down the paper and rushed out for his friend, St. Clair.
He knew that the coming of this vessel would fire the Charleston heart,
and he was eager to be upon the scene.



CHAPTER IV

THE FIRST CAPITAL


Harry and Arthur stood two days later upon the sea wall of Charleston.
Sumter rose up black and menacing in the clear wintry air.  The muzzles
of the cannon seemed to point into the very heart of the city, and over
it, as ever, flew the defiant flag, the red and blue burning in vivid
colors in the thin January sunshine.  The heart of Charleston, that most
intense of all Southern cities, had given forth a great throb.  The Star
of the West was coming from the North with provisions for the garrison
of beleaguered Sumter.  They would see her hull on the horizon in
another hour.

Both Harry and Arthur were trembling with excitement.  They were not on
duty themselves, but they knew that all the South Carolina earthworks
and batteries were manned.  What would happen?  It still seemed almost
incredible to Harry that the people of the Union--at least of the Union
that was--should fire upon one another, and his pulse beat hard and
strong, while he waited with his comrade.

As they stood there gazing out to sea, looking for the black speck
that should mark the first smoke of the Star of the West, Harry became
conscious that another man was standing almost at his elbow.  He glanced
up and saw Shepard, who nodded to him.

"I did not know that I was standing by you until I had been here some
time," said Shepard, as if he sought to indicate that he had not been
seeking Harry and his comrade.

"I thought you had left Charleston," said Harry, who had not seen him
for a week.

"Not at such a time," said Shepard, quietly.  "So much of overwhelming
interest is happening here that nobody who is alive can go away."

He put a pair of powerful glasses to his eyes and scanned the sea's rim.
He looked a long time, and then his face showed excitement.

"It comes!  It comes!" he exclaimed, more to himself than to Harry and
Arthur.

"Is it the steamer?  Is it the Star of the West?" exclaimed Harry
forgetting all doubts of Shepard in the thrill of the moment.

"Yes, the Star of the West!  It can be no other!" replied Shepard.
"It can be no other!  Take the glasses and see for yourself!"

When Harry looked he saw, where sea and sky joined, a black dot that
gradually lengthened out into a small plume.  It was not possible to
recognize any ship at that distance, but he felt instinctively that it
was the Star of the West.  He passed the glasses to Arthur, who also
took a look, and then drew a deep breath.  Harry handed the glasses back
to Shepard, saying:

"I see the ship, and I've no doubt that it's the Star of the West.
Do you know anything about this vessel, Mr. Shepard?"

"I've heard that she's only a small steamer, totally unfitted for
offense or defense."

"If the batteries fire upon her she's bound to go back."

"You put it right."

"Then, in effect, this is a test, and it rests with us whether or not to
fire the first shot."

"I think you're right again."

Others also saw the growing black plume of smoke rising from the
steamer's funnel, and a deep thrilling murmur ran through the crowd
gathered on the sea walls.  To many the vessel, steaming toward the
harbor, was foreign, carrying a foreign flag, but to many others it
was not and could never be so.

Shepard passed the glasses to the boy again, and he looked a second time
at the ship, which was now taking shape and rising fast upon the water.
Then he examined the walls of Sumter and saw men in blue moving there.
They, too, were watching the coming steamer with the deepest anxiety.

Arthur took his second look also, and Shepard watched through the
glasses a little longer.  Then he put them in the case which he hung
over his shoulder.  Glasses were no longer needed.  They could now see
with the naked eye what was about to happen--if anything happened at all.

"It will soon be decided," said Shepard, and Harry noticed that his
voice trembled.  "If the Star of the West comes without interference up
to the walls of Sumter there will be no war.  The minds of men on both
sides will cool.  But if she is stopped, then--"

He broke off.  Something seemed to choke in his throat.  Harry and
Arthur remained silent.

The ship rose higher and higher.  Behind her hung the long black trail
of her smoke.  Soon, she would be in the range of the batteries.
A deep shuddering sigh ran through the crowd, and then came moments of
intense, painful silence.  The little blue figures lining the walls of
Sumter were motionless.  The sea moved slowly and sleepily, its waters
drenched in wintry sunshine.

On came the Star of the West, straight toward the harbor mouth.

"They will not fire!  They dare not!" cried Shepard in a tense, strained
whisper.

As the last word left his lips there was a heavy crash.  A tongue of
fire leaped from one of the batteries, followed by a gush of smoke,
and a round shot whistled over the Star of the West.  A tremendous shout
came from the crowd, then it was silent, while that tongue of flame
leaped a second time from the mouth of a cannon.  Harry saw the water
spring up, a spire of white foam, near the steamer, and a moment later
a third shot clipped the water close by.  He did not know whether the
gunners were firing directly at the vessel or merely meant to warn her
that she came nearer at her peril, but in any event, the effect was
the same.  South Carolina with her cannon was warning a foreign ship,
the ship of an enemy, to keep away.

The Star of the West slowed down and stopped.  Then another shout,
more tremendous than ever, a shout of triumph, came from the crowd,
but Harry felt a chill strike to his heart.  Young St. Clair, too,
was silent and Harry saw a shadow on his face.  He looked for Shepard,
but he was gone and the boy had not heard him go.

"It is all over," said St. Clair, with the certainty of prophecy.
"The cannon have spoken and it is war. Why, where is Shepard?"

"I don't know.  He seems to have slipped away after the first two or
three shots."

"I suppose he considered the two or three enough.  Look, Harry!  The
ship is turning!  The cannon have driven her off!"

He was right.  The Star of the West, a small steamer, unable to face
heavy guns, had curved about and was making for the open sea.  There was
another tremendous shout from the crowd, and then silence.  Smoke from
the cannon drifted lazily over the town, and, caught by a contrary
breeze, was blown out over the sea in the track of the retreating
steamer, where it met the black trail left by that vessel's own funnel.
The crowd, not cheering much now, but talking in rather subdued tones,
dispersed.

Harry felt the chill down his spine again.  These were great matters.
He had looked upon no light event in the harbor of Charleston that day.
He and Arthur lingered on the wall, watching that trailing black dot on
the horizon, until it died away and was gone forever.  The blue figures
on the walls of Sumter had disappeared within, and the fortress stood up,
grim and silent.  Beyond lay the blue sea, shimmering and peaceful in
the wintry sunshine.

"I suppose there is nothing to do but go back to Madame Delaunay's,"
said Harry.

"Nothing now," replied St. Clair, "but I fancy that later on we'll have
all we can do."

"If not more."

"Yes, if not more."

Both boys were very grave and thoughtful as they walked to Madame
Delaunay's most excellent inn.  They realized that as yet South Carolina
stood alone, but in the evening their spirits took a leap.  News came
that Mississippi also had gone out.  Then other planting states followed
fast.  Florida was but a day behind Mississippi, Alabama went out the
next day after Florida, Georgia eight days later, and Louisiana a
week after Georgia.  Exultation rose high in Charleston.  All the Gulf
and South Atlantic States were now sure, but the great border states
still hung fire.  There was a clamor for Virginia, Kentucky, Maryland
and Missouri, and, though the promises from them came thick and fast,
they did not go out.  But the fiery energy of Charleston and the lower
South was moving forward over all obstacles.  Already arrangements had
been made for a great convention at Montgomery in Alabama, and a new
government would be formed differing but little from that of the old
Union.

Now Harry began to hear much of a man, of whom he had heard his father
speak, but who had slipped entirely from his mind.  It was Jefferson
Davis, a native of Kentucky like Abraham Lincoln.  He had been a brave
and gallant soldier at Buena Vista.  It was said that he had saved the
day against the overwhelming odds of Santa Anna.  He had been Secretary
of War in the old Union, now dissolved forever, according to the
Charleston talk.  Other names, too, began to grow familiar in Harry's
ears.  Much was said about the bluff Bob Toombs of Georgia, who feared
no man and who would call the roll of his slaves at the foot of Bunker
Hill monument.  And there was little weazened Stephens, also of Georgia,
a great intellect in a shrunken frame, and Benjamin of the oldest race,
who had inherited the wisdom of ages.  There would be no lack of numbers
and courage and penetration when the great gathering met at Montgomery.

These were busy and on the whole happy days for Harry and St. Clair.
Harry drilled with his comrade in the Palmetto Guards now, and, in due
time, they were going to Montgomery to assist at the inauguration of the
new president, whoever he might be.  No vessel had come in place of the
Star of the West.  The North seemed supine, and Sumter, grim and dark
though she might be, was alone.  The flag of the Stars and Stripes still
floated above it.  Everywhere else the Palmetto flag waved defiance.
But there was still no passage of arms between Sumter and its hostile
neighbors.  Small boats passed between the fort and the city, carrying
provisions to the garrison, and also the news.  The Charlestonians told
Major Anderson of the states that went out, one by one, and the brave
Kentuckian, eating his heart out, looked vainly toward the open sea for
the help that never came.

Exultation still rose in Charleston.  The ball was rolling finely.
It was even gathering more speed and force than the most sanguine had
expected.  Every day brought the news of some new accession to the cause,
some new triumph.  The Alabama militia had seized the forts, Morgan and
Gaines; Georgia had occupied Pulaski and Jackson; North Carolina troops
had taken possession of the arsenal at Fayetteville, and those of
Florida on the same day had taken the one at Chattahoochee.  Everywhere
the South was accumulating arms, ammunition and supplies for use--if
they should be needed.  The leaders had good cause for rejoicing.
They were disappointed in nothing, save that northern tier of border
states which still hesitated or refused.

Harry in these days wondered that so little seemed to happen in the
North.  His strong connections and his own good manners had made him a
favorite in Charleston.  He went everywhere, perhaps most often to the
office of the Mercury, controlled by the powerful Rhett family, among
the most fiery of the Southern leaders.  Exchanges still came there from
the northern cities, but he read little in them about preparations for
war.  Many attacked Buchanan, the present President, for weakness,
and few expected anything better from the uncouth western figure,
Lincoln, who would soon succeed him.

Meanwhile the Confederate convention at Montgomery was acting.  In those
days apathy and delay seemed to be characteristic of the North, courage
and energy of the South.  The new government was being formed with speed
and decision.  Jefferson Davis, it was said, would be President, and
Stephens of Georgia would be Vice-President.

The time for departure to Montgomery drew near.  Harry and Arthur were
in fine gray uniforms as members of the Palmetto Guards.  Arthur, light,
volatile, was full of pleased excitement.  Harry also felt the thrill
of curiosity and anticipation, but he had been in Charleston nearly six
weeks now, and while six weeks are short, they had been long enough
in such a tense time to make vital changes in his character.  He was
growing older fast.  He was more of a man, and he weighed and measured
things more.  He recognized that Charleston, while the second city of
the South in size and the first in leadership, was only Charleston,
after all, far inferior in weight and numbers to the great cities of
the North.  Often he looked toward the North over the vast, intervening
space and tried to reckon what forces lay there.

The evening before their departure they sat on the wide piazza that
swept along the entire front of the inn of Madame Delaunay.  Colonel
Leonidas Talbot and Major Hector St. Hilaire sat with them.  They, too,
were going to Montgomery.  Mid-February had passed, and the day had been
one of unusual warmth for that time of the year, like a day in full
spring.  The wind from the south was keen with the odor of fresh foliage
and of roses, and of faint far perfumes, unknown but thrilling.  A sky
of molten silver clothed city, bay, and forts in enchantment.  Nothing
seemed further away than war, yet they had to walk but a little distance
to see the defiant flag over Sumter, and the hostile Palmetto flags
waving not far away.

Madame Delaunay appeared in the doorway.  She was dressed as usual in
white and her shining black hair was bound with the slender gold fillet.

"We are going away tomorrow, Madame," said Colonel Talbot, "and I know
that we cannot find in Montgomery any such pleasant entertainment as my
young friends have enjoyed here."

Harry was confirmed in his belief that the thread of an old romance
still formed a firm tie between them.

"But you will come back," said Madame Delaunay.  "You will come back
very soon.  Surely, they will not try to keep us from going our ways in
peace."

A sudden thrill of passion and feeling had appeared in her voice.

"That no one can tell, Julie," said Colonel Talbot very gravely--it
was the first time that Harry had ever heard him call her by her first
name--"but it seems to me that I should tell what I think.  A Union such
as ours has been formed amid so much suffering and hardship, courage and
danger, that it is not to be broken in a day.  We may come back soon
from Montgomery, Julie, but I see war, a great and terrible war, a war,
by the side of which those we have had, will dwindle to mere skirmishes.
I shut my eyes, but it makes no difference.  I see it close at hand,
just the same."

Madame Delaunay sighed.

"And you, Major St. Hilaire?" she said.

"There may be a great war, Madame Delaunay," he said, "I fear that
Colonel Talbot is right, but we shall win it."

Colonel Talbot said nothing more, nor did Madame Delaunay.  Presently
she went back into the house. After a long silence the colonel said:

"If I were not sure that our friend Shepard had left Charleston long
since, I should say that the figure now passing in the street is his."

A small lawn filled with shrubbery stretched before the house, but from
the piazza they could see into the street.  Harry, too, caught a glimpse
of a passing figure, and like the colonel he was sure that it was
Shepard.

"It is certainly he!" he exclaimed.

"After him!" cried Colonel Talbot, instantly all action.  "As sure as we
live that man is a spy, drawing maps of our fortifications, and I should
have warned the Government before."

The four sprang from the piazza and ran into the street.  Harry,
although he had originally felt no desire to seize Shepard, was carried
along by the impetus.  It was the first man-hunt in which he had ever
shared, and soon he caught the thrill from the others.  The colonel,
no doubt, was right.  Shepard was a spy and should be taken.  He ran
as fast as any of them.

Shepard, if Shepard it was, heard the swift footsteps behind him,
glanced back and then ran.

"After him!" cried Major St. Hilaire, his volatile blood leaping high.
"His flight shows that he's a spy!"

But the fugitive was a man of strength and resource.  He ran swiftly
into a cross street, and when they followed him there he leaped over
the low fence of a lawn, surrounding a great house, darted into the
shrubbery, and the four, although they were joined by others, brought
by the alarm, sought for him in vain.

"After all, I'm not sorry he got away," said Colonel Talbot, as they
walked back to Madame Delaunay's.  "There is no war, and hence, in a
military sense, there can be no spies.  I doubt whether we should have
known what to do with him had we caught him, but I am certain that he
has complete maps of all our defenses."

Harry, with Arthur and many others whom he knew, started the next day
for Montgomery.  Jefferson Davis had already been chosen President,
and Alexander H. Stephens Vice-President, and Davis was on his way
from his Mississippi home to the same town to be inaugurated.  In the
excitement over the great event, so near at hand, Harry forgot all about
Shepard and his doubts.  He bade a regretful farewell to Charleston,
which had taken him to its heart, and turned his face to this new place,
much smaller, and, as yet, without fame.

Harry, Arthur, and their older friends began the momentous journey
across the land of King Cotton, passing through the very heart of the
lower South, as they went from Charleston to Montgomery.  Davis and
Stephens would be inaugurated on the 17th of that month, which was
February.  But the Palmetto Guards would arrive at Montgomery before
Davis himself, who had left his home and who would cross Mississippi,
Alabama, and a corner of Georgia before he reached the new capital to
receive the chief honor.

Trains were slow and halting, and Harry had ample opportunity to see
the land and the people who crowded to the stations to bring news or to
hear it.  He crossed a low, rolling country with many rivers, great and
small.  He saw large houses, with white-pillared porticos, sitting back
among the trees, and swarms of negro cabins.  Much of the region was yet
dead and brown from the touch of winter, but in the valleys the green
was appearing.  Spring was in the air, and the spirits of the Palmetto
Guards, nearly all of whom were very young, were rising with it.

The train drew into Montgomery, the little city that stood on the high
banks of the Alabama River.  Here they were in the very heart of the
new Confederacy, and Harry and Arthur were eager to see the many famous
Southern men who were gathered there to welcome the new President.
Jefferson Davis was expected on the morrow, and would be inaugurated on
the day following.  They heard that his coming was already a triumphal
progress.  Vast crowds held his train at many points, merely to see him
and listen to a few words.  Generally he spoke in the careful, measured
manner that was natural to him, but it was said that in Opelika, in
Alabama, he had delivered a warning to the North, telling the Northern
states that they would interfere with the Southern at their peril.

Harry and Arthur, despite their eagerness to see the town and the great
men, were compelled to wait.  The Palmetto Guards went into camp on the
outskirts, and their commander, Colonel Leonidas Talbot, late of the
United States Army, was very strict in discipline.  His second in
command, Major Hector St. Hilaire, was no whit inferior to him in
sternness.  Harry had expected that this old descendant of Huguenots,
reared in the soft air of Charleston, would be lax, or at least easy
of temper, but whatever of military rigor Colonel Talbot forgot,
Major St. Hilaire remembered.

The guards were about three hundred in number, and their camp was
pitched on a hill, a half mile from the town.  The night, after a
beautiful day, turned raw and chill, warning that early spring, even
in those southern latitudes, was more of a promise than a performance.
But the young troops built several great fires and those who were not
on guard basked before the glow.

Harry had helped to gather the wood, most of which was furnished by the
people living near, and his task was ended.  Now he sat on his blanket
with his back against a log and, with a great feeling of comfort,
saw the flames leap up and grow.  The cooks were at work, and there
was an abundance of food.  They had brought much themselves, and the
enthusiastic neighbors doubled and tripled their supplies.  The pleasant
aroma of bacon and ham frying over the coals and of boiling coffee
arose.  He was weary from the long journey and the work that he had done,
and he was hungry, too, but he was willing to wait.

All the troops were South Carolinians except Harry and perhaps a dozen
others.  They were a pleasant lot, quick of temper, perhaps, but he
liked them.  Their prevailing note was high spirits, and the most
cheerful of all was a tall youth named Tom Langdon, whose father owned
one of the smaller of the sea islands off the South Carolina coast.
He was quite sanguine that everything would go exactly as they wished.
The Yankees would not fight, but, if by any chance they did fight,
they would get a most terrible thrashing.  Tom, with a tin cup full of
coffee in one hand and a tin plate containing ham and bread in the other,
sat down by the side of Harry and leaned back against the log also.
Harry had never seen a picture of more supreme content than his face
showed.

"In thirty-six hours we'll have a new President, do you appreciate that
fact, Harry Kenton?" asked young Langdon.

"I do," replied Harry, "and it makes me think pretty hard."

"What's the use of worrying?  Why, it's just the biggest picnic that
I ever took part in, and if the Yankees object to our setting up for
ourselves I fancy we'll have to go up there and teach 'em to mind their
own business.  I wouldn't object, Harry, to a march at somebody else's
expense to New York and Philadelphia and Boston.  I suppose those cities
are worth seeing."

Harry laughed.  Langdon's good spirits were contagious even to a nature
much more serious.

"I don't look on it as a picnic altogether," he said.  "The Yankees will
fight very hard, but we live on the land almost wholly, and the grass
keeps on growing, whether there's war or not.  Besides, we're an outdoor
people, good horsemen, hunters, and marksmen.  These things ought to
help us."

"They will and we'll help ourselves most," said Langdon gaily.  "I'm
going to be either a general or a great politician, Harry.  If it's a
long war, I'll come out a general; if it's a short one, I mean to enter
public life afterward and be a great orator.  Did you ever hear me speak,
Harry?"

"No, thank Heaven," replied Harry fervently.  "Don't you think that
South Carolina has enough orators now?  What on earth do all your people
find to talk about?"

Langdon laughed with the utmost good nature.

"We fire the human heart," he replied.  "'Words, words, empty words,' it
is not so.  Words in themselves are often deeds, because the deeds start
from them or are caused by them.  The world has been run with words.
All great actions result from them.  Now, if we should have a big war,
it would be said long afterward that it was caused by words, words
spoken at Charleston and Boston, though, of course, the things they say
at Boston are wrong, while those said at Charleston are right."

Harry laughed in his turn.

"It's quite certain," he said, "that you'll have no lack of words
yourself.  I imagine that the sign over your future office will read,
'Thomas Langdon, wholesale dealer in words.  Any amount of any quality
supplied on demand.'"

"Not a bad idea," said Langdon.  "You mean that as satire, but I'll
do it.  It's no small accomplishment to be a good dictionary.  But my
thoughts turn back to war.  You think I never look beyond today, but I
believe the North will come up against us.  And you'll have to go into
it with all your might, Harry.  You are of fighting stock.  Your father
was in the thick of it in Mexico.  Remember the lines:

          "We were not many, we who stood
            Before the iron sleet that day;
           Yet many a gallant spirit would
           Give half his years if he but could
            Have been with us at Monterey."

"I remember them," said Harry, much stirred.  "I have heard my father
quote them.  He was at Monterey and he says that the Mexicans fought
well.  I was at Frankfort, the capital of our state, myself with him,
when they unveiled the monument to our Kentucky dead and I heard them
read O'Hara's poem which he wrote for that day.  I tell you, Langdon,
it makes my blood jump every time I hear it."

He recited in a sort of low chant:

          "The neighing troop, the flashing blade,
              The bugle's stirring blast,
           The charge, the dreadful cannonade,
              The din and shout are past.

          "Nor war's wild note, nor glory's peal
              Shall fill with fierce delight
           Those breasts that never more may feel
              The rapture of the fight."

They were very young and, in some respects, it was a sentimental time,
much given to poetry.  As the darkness closed in and the lights of the
little city could be seen no longer, their thoughts took a more solemn
turn.  Perhaps it would be fairer to call them emotions or feelings
rather than thoughts.  In the day all had been talk and lightness,
but in the night omens and presages came.  Langdon was the first to
rouse himself.  He could not be solemn longer than three minutes.

"It's certain that the President is coming tomorrow, Harry, isn't it?"
he asked.

"Beyond a doubt.  He is so near now that they fix the exact hour,
and the Guards are among those to receive him."

"I wonder what he looks like.  They say he is a very great man."

They were interrupted by St. Clair, who threw himself down on a blanket
beside them.

"That's the third cup of coffee you're taking, Tom," he said to Langdon.
"Here, give it to me.  I've had none."

Langdon obeyed and St. Clair drank thirstily.  Then he took from the
inside pocket of his coat a newspaper which he unfolded deliberately.

"This came from Montgomery," he said.  "I heard you two quoting poetry,
and I thought I'd come over and read some to you.  What do you think of
this?  It was written by a fellow in Boston named Holmes and published
when he heard that South Carolina had seceded.  He calls it: 'Brother
Jonathan's Lament for Sister Caroline.'"

"Read it!" exclaimed the others.

"Here goes:

    "She has gone--she has left us in passion and pride,
     Our stormy-browed sister so long at our side!
     She has torn her own star from our firmament's glow,
     And turned on her brother the face of a foe.

    "O Caroline, Caroline, child of the sun,
     We can never forget that our hearts have been one,
     Our foreheads both sprinkled in Liberty's name
     From the fountain of blood with the fingers of flame."

St. Clair read well in a full, round voice, and when he stopped with the
second verse Harry said:

"It sounds well.  I like particularly that expression, 'the fingers of
flame.'  After all, there's some grief in parting company, breaking up
the family, so to speak."

"But he's wrong when he says we left in passion and pride," exclaimed
Langdon.  "In pride, yes, but not in passion.  We may be children of
the sun, too, but I've felt some mighty cold winds sweeping down from
the Carolina hills, cold enough to make fur-lined overcoats welcome.
But we'll forget about cold winds and everything else unpleasant,
before such a jolly fire as this."

They finished an abundant supper, and soon relapsed into silence.
The flames threw out such a generous heat that they were content to rest
their backs against the log, and gaze sleepily into the coals.  Beyond
the fire, in the shadow, they saw the sentinels walking up and down.
Harry felt for the first time that he was really within the iron bands
of military discipline.  He might choose to leave the camp and go into
Montgomery, but he would choose and nothing more.  He could not go.
Colonel Leonidas Talbot and Major Hector St. Hilaire were friends,
but they were masters also, and he was recognizing sooner than some of
the youths around him that it was not merely play and spectacle that
awaited them.



CHAPTER V

THE NEW PRESIDENT


Their great day came.  Clear sunlight shone over the town, the hills and
the brown waters of the Alabama.  It was a peculiarly Southern country,
different, Harry thought, from his own Kentucky, more enthusiastic,
perhaps, and less prone to count the cost.  The people had come not only
on the railroad, but they were arriving now from far places in wagons
and on horseback.  Men of distinction, almost universally, wore black
clothes, the coats very long, black slouch hats, wide of brim, and white
shirts with glistening or heavily ruffled fronts.  There were also many
black people in a state of pleasurable excitement, although the war--if
one should come--would be over them.

Harry and his two young friends were anxious to visit Montgomery and
take a good look at the town, but they did not ask for leave, as Colonel
Talbot had already sternly refused all such applications.  The military
law continued to lie heavily upon them, and, soon after they finished
a solid breakfast with appetites sharpened by the open air, they were
ordered to fall into line.  Arrayed in their fine new uniforms, to which
the last touch of neatness had been added, they marched away to the
town.  They might see it as a company, but not as individuals.

They walked with even step along the grassy slopes, their fine
appearance drawing attention and shouts of approval from the dense
masses of people of all ages and all conditions of life who were
gathering.  Harry, a cadet with a small sword by his side, felt his
heart swell as he trod the young turf, and heard the shouting and
applause.  The South Carolinians were the finest body of men present,
and they were conscious of it.  Eyes always to the front, they marched
straight on, apparently hearing nothing, but really hearing everything.

They reached the houses presently and Harry saw the dome of the capitol
on its high hill rising before them, but a moment or two later the
Guards, with the Palmetto flag waving proudly in front, wheeled and
marched toward the railroad station.  There they halted in close ranks
and stood at attention.  Although the young soldiers remained immovable,
there was not a heart in the company that did not throb with excitement.
Colonel Talbot and Major St. Hilaire were a little in advance, erect and
commanding figures.

Other troops, volunteer companies, were present and they spread to right
and left of the South Carolinians.  Behind and everywhere except in the
cleared space before them gathered the people, a vast mass through which
ran the hum and murmur of expectancy.  Overhead, the sun leaped out and
shone for a while with great brilliancy.  "A good omen," many said.
And to Harry it all seemed good, too.  The excitement, the enthusiasm
were contagious.  If any prophet of evil was present he had nothing to
say.

A jet of smoke standing black against the golden air appeared above a
hill, and then came the rumble of a train.  It was that which bore the
President elect, coming fast, and a sudden great shout went up from the
multitude, followed by silence, broken only by the heavy breathing of so
many.  Harry's heart leaped again, but his will kept his body immovable.

The rumble became a roar, and the jet of smoke turned to a cloud.
Then the train drew into the station and stopped.  The people began a
continuous shout, bands played fiercely, and a tall, thin man of middle
years, dressed in black broadcloth, descended from a coach.  All the
soldiers saluted, the bands played more fiercely than ever, and the
shouting of the crowd swelled in volume.

It was the first time that Harry had ever seen Jefferson Davis, and the
face, so unlike that which he expected, impressed him.  He saw a cold,
gray, silent man with lips pressed tightly together.  He did not behold
here the Southern fire and passion of which he was hearing so much talk,
but rather the reserve and icy resolve of the far North.  Harry at first
felt a slight chill, but it soon passed.  It was better at such a time
to have a leader of restraint and dignity than the homely joker, Lincoln,
of whom such strange tales came.

Mr. Davis lifted his black hat to the shouting crowd, and bowed again
and again.  But he did not smile.  His face remained throughout set in
the same stern mold.  As the troops closed up, he entered the carriage
waiting for him, and drove slowly toward the heart of the city, the
multitude following and breaking at intervals into shouts and cheers.

The Palmetto Guards marched on the right of the carriage, and Harry
was able to watch the President-elect all the time.  The face held his
attention.  Its sternness did not relax.  It was the face of a man who
had seen the world, and who believed in the rule of strength.

The procession led on to a hotel, a large building with a great portico
in front.  Here it stopped, the bands ceased to play, Mr. Davis
descended from the carriage and entered the portico, where a group of
men famous in the South stood, ready to welcome him.  The troops drew up
close to the portico, and back of them, every open space was black with
people.

Harry, in the very front rank, saw and heard it all.  Mr. Davis stopped
as soon as he reached the portico, and Yancey, the famous orator of
Alabama, to whom Harry had delivered his letters in Charleston, stepped
forward, and, in behalf of the people of the South, made a speech of
welcome in a clear, resonant, and emphatic tone.  The applause compelled
him to stop at times, but throughout, Mr. Davis stood rigid and
unsmiling.  His countenance expressed none of his thoughts, whatever
they may have been.  Harry's eyes never wandered from his face, except
to glance now and then at the weazened, shrunken, little man who stood
near him, Alexander H. Stephens of Georgia, who would take the oath of
office as Vice-President of the new Confederacy.  He had been present
throughout the convention as a delegate from Georgia, and men talked of
the mighty mind imprisoned in the weak and dwarfed body.

Harry thrilled more than once as the new President spoke on in calm,
measured tones.  He was glad to be present at the occurrence of great
events, and he was glad to witness this gathering of the mighty.
The tide of youth flowed high in him, and he believed himself fortunate
to have been at Charleston when the cannon met the Star of the West,
and yet more fortunate to be now at Montgomery, when the head of the
new nation was taking up his duties.

His gaze wandered for the first time from the men in the portico to the
crowd without that rimmed them around.  His eyes, without any particular
purpose, passed from face to face in the front ranks, and then stopped,
arrested by a countenance that he had little expected to see.  It was
the shadow, Shepard, standing there, and listening, and looking as
intently as Harry himself.  It was not an evil face, cut clearly and
eager, but Harry was sorry that he had come.  If Colonel Talbot's
beliefs about him were true, this was a bad place for Shepard.

But his eyes went back to the new President and the men on the portico
before him.  The first scene in the first act of a great drama, a mighty
tragedy, had begun, and every detail was of absorbing interest to him.
Shepard was forgotten in an instant.

Harry noticed that Mr. Davis never mentioned slavery, a subject which
was uppermost in the minds of all, North and South, but he alluded to
the possibility of war, and thought the new republic ought to have an
army and navy.  The concluding paragraph of his speech, delivered in
measured but feeling tones, seemed very solemn and serious to Harry.

"It is joyous in the midst of perilous times," he said, "to look around
upon a people united in heart, where one purpose of high resolve
animates and actuates the whole; where the sacrifices to be made are not
weighed in the balance against honor and right and liberty and equality.
Obstacles may retard, but they cannot long prevent the progress of a
movement sanctified in justice and sustained by a virtuous people.
Reverently let us invoke the God of our fathers to guide and protect us
in our efforts to perpetuate the principles which by his blessing they
were able to vindicate, establish, and transmit to their posterity.
With the continuance of his favor ever gratefully acknowledged we may
look hopefully forward to success, to peace and to prosperity."

The final words were received with a mighty cheer which rose and swelled
thrice, and again.  Jefferson Davis stood calmly through it all, his
face expressing no emotion.  The thin lips were pressed together
tightly.  The points of his high collar touched his thick, close beard.
He wore a heavy black bow tie and his coat had broad braided lapels.
His hair was thick and slightly long, and his face, though thin, was
full of vitality.  It seemed to Harry that the grave, slightly narrowed
eyes emitted at this moment a single flash of triumph or at least of
fervor.

Mr. Davis was sworn in and Mr. Stephens after him, and when the shouting
and applause sank for the last time, the great men withdrew into the
hotel, and the troops marched away.  The head of the new republic had
been duly installed, and the separation from the old Union was complete.
The enthusiasm was tremendous, but Harry, like many others, had an
underlying and faint but persistent feeling of sadness that came from
the breaking of old ties.  Nor had any news come telling that Kentucky
was about to join her sister states of the South.

The Palmetto Guards marched back to their old camp, and Harry, Langdon,
and St. Clair obtained leave of absence to visit the town.  Youth had
reasserted itself and Harry was again all excitement and elation.
It seemed to him at the moment that he was a boy no longer.  The Tacitus
lying peacefully in his desk was forgotten.  He was a man in a man's
great world, doing a man's great work.

But both he and his comrades had all the curiosity and zest of boys as
they walked about the little city in the twilight, looking at everything
of interest, visiting the Capitol, and then coming back to the Exchange
Hotel, which sheltered for a night so many of their great men.

They stayed a while in the lobby of the hotel, which was packed so
densely that Harry could scarcely breathe.  Most of the men were of the
tall, thin but extremely muscular type, either clean shaven or with
short beards trimmed closely, and no mustaches.  Black was the
predominant color in clothing, and they talked with soft, drawling
voices.  But their talk was sanguine.  Most of them asked what the North
would do, but they believed that whatever she did do the South would go
on her way.  The smoke from the pipes and cigars grew thicker, and Harry,
leaving his comrades in the crowd, walked out upon the portico.

The crisp, fresh air of the February night came like a heavenly tonic.
He remained there a little while, breathing it in, expanding his lungs,
and rejoicing.  Then he walked over to the exact spot upon which
Jefferson Davis had stood, when he delivered his speech of acceptance.
He was so full of the scene that he shut his eyes and beheld it again.
He tried to imagine the feelings of a man at such a moment, knowing
himself the chosen of millions, and feeling that all eyes were upon him.
Truly it would be enough to make the dullest heart leap.

He opened his eyes, and although he stood in darkness on the portico,
he saw a dusky figure at the far edge of it, standing between two
pillars, and looking in at one of the windows.  The man, whoever he was,
seemed to be intently watching those inside, and Harry saw at once that
it was not a look of mere curiosity.  It was the gaze of one who wished
to understand as well as to know.  He moved a little nearer.  The figure
dropped lightly to the ground and moved swiftly away.  Then he saw that
it was Shepard.

The boy's feelings toward Shepard had been friendly, but now he felt a
sudden rush of hostility.  All that Colonel Talbot had hinted about him
was true.  He was there, spying upon the Confederacy, seeking its inmost
secrets, in order that he might report them to its enemies.  Harry was
armed.  He and all his comrades carried new pistols at their belts,
and driven by impulse he, too, dropped from the portico and followed
Shepard.

He saw the dusky figure ahead of him still going swiftly, but with his
hand on the pistol he followed at greater speed.  A minute later Shepard
turned into a small side street, and Harry followed him there.  It was
not much more than an alley, dark, silent, and deserted.  Montgomery
was a small town, in which people retired early after the custom of the
times, and tonight, the collapse after so much excitement seemed to have
sent them sooner than usual into their homes.  It was evident that the
matter would lie without interference between Shepard and himself.

Shepard went swiftly on and came soon to the outskirts of the town.
He did not look back and Harry wondered whether he knew that he was
pursued.  The boy thought once or twice of using his pistol, but could
not bring himself to do it.  There was really no war, merely a bristling
of hostile forces, and he could not fire upon anybody, especially upon
one who had done him no harm.

Shepard led on, passed through a group of negro cabins, crossed an old
cotton field, and entered a grove, with his pursuer not fifty yards
behind.  The grove was lighted well by the moon, and Harry dashed
forward, pistol in hand, resolved at last to call a halt upon the
fugitive.  A laugh and the blue barrel of a levelled pistol met him.
Shepard was sitting upon a fallen log facing him.  The moon poured a
mass of molten silver directly upon him, showing a face of unusual
strength and power, set now with stern resolution.  Harry's hand was
upon the butt of his own pistol, but he knew that it was useless to
raise it.  Shepard held him at his mercy.

"Sit down, Mr. Kenton," said Shepard.  "Here's another log, where you
can face me.  You feel chagrin, but you need not.  I knew that you
were following me, and hence I was able to take you by surprise.  Now,
tell me, what do you want?"

Harry took the offered log.  He was naturally a lad of great courage and
resolution, and now his presence of mind returned.  He looked calmly at
Shepard, who lowered his own pistol.

"I'm not exactly sure what I want," he replied with a little laugh,
"but whatever it is, I know now that I'm not going to get it.  I've
walked into a trap.  I believed that you were a spy, and it seemed to
me that I ought to seize you.  Am I right?"

Shepard laughed also.

"That's a frank question and you shall have a frank reply," he said.
"The suspicions of your friend, Colonel Talbot, were correct.  Yes,
I am a spy, if one can be a spy when there is no war.  I am willing to
tell you, however, that Shepard is my right name, and I am willing to
tell you also, that you and your Charleston friends little foresee the
magnitude of the business upon which you have started.  I don't believe
there is any enmity between you and me and I can tell the thoughts that
I have."

"Since you offered me no harm when you had the chance," said Harry,
"I give my word that I will seek to offer none myself.  Go ahead,
I think you have more to say and I want to listen."

Shepard thrust his pistol in his belt and his face relaxed somewhat.
As they faced each other on the logs they were not more than ten feet
part and the moon poured a shower of silver rays upon both.  Although
Shepard was a few years the older, the faces showed a likeness,
the same clearness of vision and strength of chin.

"I liked you, Harry Kenton, the first time I met you," said Shepard,
"and I like you yet.  When I saw that you were following me, I led you
here in order to say some things to you.  You are seeing me now probably
for the last time.  My spying is over for a long while, at least.
A mile further on, a horse, saddled and bridled, is waiting for me.
I shall ride all the remainder of the night, board a train in the
morning, and, passing through Memphis and Louisville, I shall be in the
North in forty-eight hours."

"And what then?"

"I shall tell to those who ought to know what I have seen in Charleston
and Montgomery.  I have seen the gathering of forces in the South,
and I know the spirit that animates your people, but listen to me,
Harry Kenton, do you think that a Union such as ours, formed as ours was,
can be broken up in a moment, as you would smash a china plate?  The
forces on the other side are sluggish, but they are mighty.  I foresee
war, terrible war, crowded with mighty battles.  Now, I'm going to offer
you my hand and you are going to take it.  Don't think any the less of
me because I've been playing the spy.  You may be one yourself before
the year is out."

His manner was winning, and Harry took the offered hand.  What right
had he to judge?  Each to his own opinion.  Despite himself, he liked
Shepard again.

"I'm glad I've known you, but at the same time I'm glad you're leaving,"
he said.

Shepard gave the boy's hand a hearty grasp, which was returned in kind.
Then he turned and disappeared in the forest.  Harry walked slowly
back to Montgomery.  Shepard had given him deep cause for thought.  He
approached the Exchange Hotel, thinking that he would find his friends
there and return with them to the camp.  But it was later than he had
supposed.  As he drew near he saw that nearly all the lights were out
in the hotel, and the building was silent.

He was sure that St. Clair and Langdon had already gone to the camp,
and he was about to turn away when he saw a window in the hotel thrown
up and a man appear standing full length in the opening.

It was Jefferson Davis.  The same flood of moonlight that had poured
upon Shepard illuminated his face also.  But it was not the face of a
triumphant man.  It was stern, sad, even gloomy.  The thin lips were
pressed together more tightly than ever, and the somber eyes looked
out over the city, but evidently saw nothing there.  Harry felt
instinctively that his thoughts were like those of Shepard.  He, too,
foresaw a great and terrible war, and, so foreseeing, knew that this
was no time to rejoice and glorify.

Harry, held by the strong spell of time and place, watched him a full
half hour.  It was certain now that Jefferson Davis was thinking,
not looking at anything, because his head never moved, and his eyes were
always turned in the same direction--Harry noticed at last that the
direction was the North.

The new President stepped back, closed the window and no light came from
his room.  Harry hurried to the camp, where, as he had surmised, he
found St. Clair and Langdon.  He gave some excuse for his delay, and
telling nothing of Shepard, wrapped himself in his blankets.  Exhausted
by the stirring events of the day and night he fell asleep at once.

Three days later they were on their way back to Charleston.  They heard
that the inauguration of the new President had not been well received by
the doubtful states.  Even the border slave states were afraid the lower
South had been a little too hasty.  But among the youths of the Palmetto
Guards there was neither apprehension nor depression.  They had been
present at the christening of the new nation, and now they were going
back to their own Charleston.

"Everything is for the best," said young Langdon, whose unfailing
spirits bubbled to the brim, "we'll have down here the tightest and
finest republic the world ever heard of.  New Orleans will be the
biggest city, but our own Charleston will always be the leader, its
center of thought."

"What you need, Tom," said Harry, "is a center of thought yourself.
Don't be so terribly sanguine and you may save yourself some smashes."

"I wouldn't gain anything even then," replied Langdon joyously.  "I'll
have such a happy time before the smash comes that I can afford to pay
for it.  I'm the kind that enjoys life.  It's a pleasure to me just to
breathe."

"I believe it is," said Harry, looking at him with admiration.  "I think
I'll call you Happy Tom."

"I take the name with pleasure," said Langdon.  "It's a compliment to be
called Happy Tom.  Happy I was born and happy I am.  I'm so happy I must
sing:

    "Ol Dan Tucker was a mighty fine man,
     He washed his face in the frying pan,
     He combed his hair with a wagon wheel
     A