 midst
of a wilderness of ruins. Three walls encircled it, and although these did
long service as the quarries wherefrom the inhabitants drew such building
stone as they needed, yet have they not been demolished, but tell their
whole story still, in spite of wide gaps and breaks--ay, and with a far
more soul-moving voice than when they could show to the enemy their
crenated parapets without a flaw, when not a stone was wanting to any tower
or gateway, and when the twang of the cross-bow might have been heard from
every loophole. There are heaps of stones where the lizard runs, where the
coiled snake basks untroubled, where the dwarfed fig-tree sprouts when the
spring has come, and where the wild cucumber pushes forward its yellow
flowers that fear not the flame of summer. The fig-tree may also be seen
hanging from high walls, and the vine rambles among blooming or embrowned
wallflowers on the top of ruinous gateways, through which the people still
enter and leave the town as they did centuries ago.

The spirit of originality that animated the mediaeval architects in
this part of France, and which has given to so many churches a distinct
character, an individual expression, that keeps the interest of the
traveller constantly alive, is strongly marked upon the church of St.
Macaire. Commenced at the beginning of the twelfth century, its earliest
portions show the Pointed style in its infancy, fearful as yet of
committing what seemed so like heresy--a departure from the Roman arch; but
in the same building a much bolder Gothic asserts itself in the parts that
were added in the thirteenth century. The west front and doorway have not
the majesty of the style as it was developed chiefly in the North, but they
have that venerable air which is not always to be found in the stately and
majestic. The low tympanum is crowded with figures belonging to the period
when the statuary's art was still swathed in the swaddling clothes of its
new infancy, and what with their own uncouthness, and the wear and tear of
time, it is no easy matter now to trace in them all the purpose and meaning
of the sculptor.

And yet in their blurred and battered state they tell us much more than
they would if they had been restored with the best skill and learning of
our own time. The age is gone when these bas-reliefs were the religious
books of the people. To imitate them is mere aestheticism, and to restore
them is often destruction.

A few words must be said of the old market-place of St. Macaire. Thanks to
the poverty or the apathy of the commune, three sides have retained all
their mediaeval character, the interest of which has been refined and
deepened by the artistic touch of time, the sentimental ravisher, the slow
and gentle destroyer. A Gothic arcade encloses a wide pavement, and each
bay, with its vaulting, forms, as it were, the portico of the house, whose
first and higher storeys rest upon it. Here those who are interested in
civic architecture can see thirteenth and fourteenth century houses still
retaining their wide Gothic doorways.

I rested awhile in a café, and chance led me to one that was kept by an
Englishman. He recognised my nationality, while I supposed him to be a
Frenchman, and he seemed as glad to see me as if I had been an old friend.
He told me that when he was a boy his father brought his family from
England to Les Eyzies, where he was employed at the iron works. (The
smelting furnace has been cold for many a year.) The man who spoke was
middle-aged, and although he expressed himself with difficulty in English,
and turned his phrases out of French moulds of thought, he had kept a
strong accent of the Midland counties. The tenacity with which an accent
adheres to the tongue, even when the language to which it belongs has
been half lost, is very remarkable. I remember meeting in my roamings an
Englishwoman who had married a French cobbler, and who had been buried
alive with him in the Haut-Quercy for forty years. She had learnt to speak
patois like a native, but it had become a sore trial to her to put her
thoughts into English words; nevertheless, when she did bring out those
words that had been so long put away in the mind's lumber-room, the accent
was as pure Cockney as if she had but lately drifted away from her own
Middlesex.

The freshness of the morning was gone, and even in the shade of the cafe
I felt the hot breath of the day. When I was again upon the powdered road
between interminable rows of vines, the glare was dazzling; but I was not
alone. Groups of people were trudging under the same fiery sky, and upon
the same dusty road, and all were moving in the same direction. When I
learnt that they were pilgrims on their way to Verdelais, I thought that I
might do worse than be a pilgrim, too. I therefore went with the stream,
which soon turned up the flanks of the vine-clad hills.

Thus I found myself about noon in a small village, seemingly composed of
one wide street lined on both sides with cafés and restaurants. There was
also a very conspicuous modern church in a fantastic and debased, but
showy, style of architecture. It was densely crowded, and the shine of
innumerable candles was seen through the open doors. The whole street
was likewise crowded with people, who had come from various parts of the
Bordelais, and who seemed determined to spend a happy day in a sense no
less material than spiritual. There was a great rush to the restaurants,
and there was flagrant overcharging on the part of those who kept them--all
speculators on piety.

Perhaps the grandeur of the solitude of Roc-Amadour, the antiquity of the
buildings, and the simplicity of the pilgrims had made me a wrong-headed
judge of the newer places of pilgrimage. However this may be, after the
first glance at Verdelais I wished I had not come. There was no quiet
corner here where a wayfarer could sit and refresh himself; in this
hurly-burly of eager hunger, and with this infernal clatter of tongues,
repose was impossible.

After lunching in the midst of a noisy and vulgar throng, I regained the
open country, with the conviction that, should I ever decide to start off
upon a serious pilgrimage, the road to Verdelais would not be the one that
I would take.

I now turned down towards the valley through the vines, the inevitable
vines, and was soon on the banks of the Garonne. Almost facing me upon the
opposite hillsides were the famous vineyards of Sauterne, and I knew
that the vintagers were busy there, every woman--women are chiefly
employed--with her pair of scissors snipping off the grapes one by one from
the gathered bunches, and rejecting all that were not sound. It is a costly
method, but the wine pays for it.

A steamer comes panting down the river, and stops near the grove of willows
where I have been trying to hide myself from the all-searching, all-burning
sun. I go on board and take a delicious rest under an awning for two or
three hours, while the vine-covered hills on either side glide backward
with their many steeples and towers.

I left the steamer at a place called Castres, some fifteen miles below
Bordeaux. My motive for stopping here was to see the castle where
Montesquieu was born, and where he spent the greater part of his life.
The map told me that it lay some five or six miles from Castres in the
direction of the _landes_, and as the day was already far spent, I reckoned
upon passing the night at the small town of La Brède, which is very near
the castle. The sun's rays were as yet but little calmed as I turned from
the broad, blue river.

I had to follow the highway, on which the white dust lay thick. This road
was carried up the hills. In the vineyards were crowds of men and women,
many of whom had been drawn out of the slums of Bordeaux. Some of them were
forlorn-looking beings, whose faces told that they were glad to seize this
opportunity of earning for a few days a sure wage. Those who wish to feel
the poetic charm of the vintage should not go into the district of Bordeaux
to seek it. Here only the legend remains. It is not that the vines are
wanting. The Bordelais, except in the sandy and pine-covered region of the
_landes_, has again become one immense vineyard; but whether it be from the
struggle to live, or the lust of prosperity, the people fail to impress the
traveller with that communicative openness and joyousness of soul which he
would like to find in them, if only that he might not have the vexation of
convicting himself of laying up for his own fancy another disillusion.

Although the hills were not steep, the long ascent was wearisome in the
sultry air that no breath of wind freshened. At length the sun went down in
a golden haze, where the vine-leaves spread to the horizon like the sea.
Then I descended the other side of the range of hills that follows the line
of the river. The vineyards gradually fell away, and scattered pines gave a
touch of sadness to the darkening land. By these signs I knew that I was on
the outskirts of the _landes_ of the Gironde. But the sand was still some
miles away, and the country here was well cultivated. A church spire that
looked very high in the clear obscure, as I saw it through an opening of
trees, led me to La Brède.

Here I thought I should have no difficulty in finding night quarters, for
there was at least one good inn, which in its own estimation was a hotel.
But the way in which I was scrutinized when I wearily set down my knapsack
on an outside table and took a seat under the plane-trees told me that I
was not welcome. Since I had been in the Bordelais I had become rather too
familiar with such signs. The hotel-keepers here have but very slight faith
in the respectability of travellers who do not come in the usual way--that
is to say, by train or omnibus, or something with wheels, though it be but
a bicycle. To them the walking traveller, whether he carries a bundle over
his shoulder on a stick, or a knapsack on his back (the latter is very
rarely seen), is merely a tramp. If he speaks with a foreign accent, he is
doubly deserving of suspicion. These people of the Gironde are, perhaps,
all the more doubtful of the morality of others because of the little
confidence that they are able to place in their own.

My request for a room at this inn was not refused immediately. There was
a consultation indoors, the result of which was that I was presently told
that every room was already engaged. There was nothing for it but to walk
on to the next inn, and hope for better luck there. It would seem as if
they had been prepared here for my coming, and had already made up their
minds how to act. Two women stood in the doorway, and did not move an inch
to make way for me. I had hardly asked the question about the room, when
the answer came emphatically 'No.' At the next house to which I went I met
with the same answer; but in spite of the unpleasantness of my position, I
was almost thankful for it, such a villainous-looking place it was. There
now remained but one small auberge at La Brède. If I was denied shelter
there, I should have to go to Bordeaux that night, and I was five miles
from the nearest railway-station. The prospect had become sombre, and I
began to regret that I had allowed the Château de Montesquieu to entice me
among these too civilized savages.

The last inn was a little outside the town. A dark man, whose face, even in
the feeble light, I could see was deadly pale, was seated outside the door,
breathing the freshness that now began to be felt in the evening air. As my
previous negotiations had been with women, I was glad to perceive now an
innkeeper of the other sex. My experience of the French provinces had
taught me that, wherever people are suspicious of strangers whose
appearance is not such as they are familiar with, and where the measure of
prosperity has been sufficient to produce a cautious disinclination to move
out of the daily trodden track, it is far better to deal with men than with
women.

The pale-faced man, after looking at me fixedly for a few seconds, said:

'Yes, I have one spare room, and it is at your service.'

I crossed the threshold, and took a seat in the kitchen and general room.
The surroundings were not very cheerful; but no other people would have
anything to do with me, and therefore my choice of accommodation had to be
what is termed Hobson's. After all, it would not be the first time that I
had passed the night in a little roadside inn.

The pale man's wife did not look in a very sweet temper at her husband for
having put extra work upon her without consulting her, and there was an
exceedingly obnoxious boy of about fourteen who sat upon the corner of
a table and, with the assurance of a mounted gendarme, put all sorts of
questions to me in a voice that would change suddenly from a bark to a
bleat. I was seized with such a longing to knock him off his perch that I
presently kept my eyes fixed upon the frying-pan so that I might not be
tempted beyond my strength. The father was evidently too weak to contend
with his horrible offspring. My interest in the man was at once awakened.
He told me that he was from the Lot-et-Garonne, where he owned land, and
had been a tobacco-planter, until a disease of the spinal marrow compelled
him to seek an occupation that required less exertion. Thus he came to be
an innkeeper. He had spent much money upon doctors, who had done him little
or no good. The only treatment that had given him any relief was _la
pendaison_.

'Hanging!'

'Yes, hanging. I have passed hours hung up by the neck.'

Then he explained the apparatus that is used for stretching the spinal
marrow in this manner, and how it differs from the method of hanging that
is best known in England. When I learnt what he had undergone in order to
get cured, I could understand why he looked so pale and sad. A melancholy
Jacques was he, indeed, in appearance, and he was certainly not the most
cheerful of hosts whom one might hope to find at the end of a weary day;
but I knew that I was in the house of an honest man, who was also brave and
patient, while he looked out upon the world through darkening windows.

Before going to bed I had some talk with my host about my adventures at La
Brède before I applied to him for a night's lodging. There was actually a
sparkle of mirth in his melancholy dark eyes, and his sunken cheeks were
puckered up with a sort of smile.

'If you had been dressed in a black coat,' said he, 'like a _commis
voyageur_, they would have all found room for you.'

This was my opinion, too. The Bordelais believe in the respectability of no
travelling motives under heaven that are not commercial.

My bedroom that night had much the character of an outhouse or fowlhouse.
It was on the ground-floor, and the rafters overhead sloped rapidly towards
the exterior wall. A small low window opened upon the garden. The walls
were white-washed, but the floors were very black, as all these southern
floors are. Upon the single table a heap of raw wool waiting to be spun had
been pushed back a little to make room for the doll's washing-basin and
towel that had been placed there for me. Besides the bed that had been
prepared for me, there was another, which happily was to remain unoccupied
that night. The traveller should always be thankful when he has a room,
however poor and plain, that for the few hours which he needs for rest he
can call his own. If he snores himself, he will sleep through the noise,
and have, perhaps, pleasant dreams; but if anybody else snores in the same
room, he may lie awake with clenched fists, and be tortured by the foolish
desire to throw something.

The next morning I believe I was the earliest visitor who in modern times
has troubled the serenity of the Château de la Brède. A mist--one of the
first of the falling year--lay white and dense upon the land. It was a
fine-weather mist, such as in the opinion of the wine-grower helps to ripen
the grapes.

I had entered the park about half a mile beyond the town, and then between
two rolling banks of vapour I saw the high walls and higher towers of the
castle looming through the grayness. A little later I distinguished the
dull water of the very wide moat, and the three connected bridges, which
were formerly blank spaces between low towers, unless the drawbridges
happened to be let down.

[Illustration: CHÂTEAU DE MONTESQUIEU.]

Over these the visitor must now pass in order to reach the castle. As I was
so early, I killed time to my own good by trying to fix some impressions of
the vast pile of masonry that stood here in the middle of a little lake.
It is an extraordinary block of architectural patchwork, quite without
symmetry, and yet the mass is imposing. The ground-plan approaches the
circle more than any other geometrical figure, but it is a circle with
slices cut off, and composed of angles so irregular as almost to imply
a fantastic motive. But the motive was purely utilitarian. The feudal
fortress which was built here in the thirteenth century underwent in
subsequent ages so many modifications and additions with a view more to the
comfort of the dwellers therein than to their protection from enemies, that
in course of time little of the mediaeval buildings remained besides the
great hall, the basement, and the keep. These became jumbled up with late
Gothic and Renaissance work.

Jean de Secondat, who purchased the old fortified manor-house out of his
savings as _maítre d'hôtel_ to Antoine de Bourbon and Jeanne d'Albret, was
probably responsible for most of the sixteenth-century work that one
now sees. When his descendant, Charles de Secondat de Montesquieu, took
possession, the building was almost identical with that which exists
to-day. It has been exceptionally favoured, for it has remained in the
family, and for at least two hundred years it has undergone none of those
alterations which in previous times had so changed its appearance. The eye
may not be delighted with its symmetry, but the mind has the satisfaction
of knowing that this was verily the birthplace and home of him who more
than any other man made political science popular.

The present owner of the castle, recognising the duty that the descendant
of a great man owes to society, receives with the most liberal courtesy all
those who make a pilgrimage to this spot.

The relics of Montesquieu are numerous, and they have been preserved with
admirable solicitude. The room where he slept and wrote is almost the
same as when he finally left it; with this difference, that time has made
everything look dingier. Even the white linen curtains which hung at the
window hang there still, and they are by no means so yellow as one might
expect them to be. On the plain little table at which he washed himself
stand his basin and ewer. The basin would be called to-day a dish, for it
is not more than two inches deep. It held quite enough water, however, to
serve for the ablutions of a baron a century and a half ago. Much the same
notion of what is fit and proper in a washingbasin remains to this day
among the French peasantry, and even among the middle class in the
provinces the growth of the toilet crockery has been far from rapid since
the time of Montesquieu.

The bed in which the political philosopher slept is a broad four-poster,
not with slender and finely carved posts, like Fénelon's, but severely
simple. Indeed, in none of the furniture of this room is there any
indication of the love of the ornamental. On the contrary, everything
tells of a mind that set no value upon aught but the strictly needful.
Montesquieu's small writing-case, divided into compartments, the borders
of the leather covering embellished with dingy, half-obliterated gold
ornament, was perhaps the finest bit of property he had before his eyes
as he sat and worked there. He always carried it about with him when he
travelled. No doubt it went with him to England, and he probably wrote
letters to his friend Lord Chesterfield upon it. And here is his travelling
trunk. It still looks fit to bear many years' rough usage; and yet, if
railway porters had to pull it about, they would not know whether to laugh
at its strange appearance or to swear at its weight. It was built for wear,
like Noah's ark, and it is entirely covered with leather, elaborately
decorated with patterns, composed of the round heads of small nails. The
high stone chimney-piece, plain and solid like the character of the man
who did so much lasting work in this room, remains, together with the
fire-dogs, as it was in his time.

Montesquieu formed the habit when thinking alone of leaning back in his
chair before the hearth and resting his feet against one of the jambs of
the chimney-piece. The stone was much worn away by his feet; but the
marks would pass unobserved if the knowledge of their cause had not been
preserved in the family. A bust of Montesquieu made in his life-time shows
him with closely-cropped hair, and without a wig. It is a remarkably
Caesar-like head, every feature indicating the decision and positivism of
the Roman character--such a one, indeed, as ideally became the author of
the 'Considerations.' But how the face is altered when we look at it in
another portrait--a painted one, representing the writer in a great wig as
President of the Parliament of Guyenne! A head becomes another head if the
coiffure be but changed.

A little room adjoining this one was where Montesquieu's secretary worked.
He was the drudge of a literary man, who was probably not exempt from the
constitutional irritability of those who carry a whirling grindstone within
their brains for the sharpening and polishing of thought. The unremembered
scribe may have done good service to literature while undergoing his
purgatory in this world.

Distributed throughout this suite of apartments on the ground-floor is much
furniture of the sixteenth, seventeenth, and eighteenth centuries, most of
which was here when Montesquieu was _châtelain_.

A spiral staircase leads to the great hall of the old castle. It has
been very carefully preserved, and although the walls are now lined with
book-shelves, it keeps the air of baronial grandeur and simplicity.
Montesquieu made it his library, and had reading-desks set up all down the
middle. His books remain, as well as some of his manuscripts, including
that of 'Les Lettres Persanes.' This long hall is covered by a plain
barrel-vault, and at the far end is an immense chimney-place, the chimney
built out at the base several feet from the line of the wall, and sloping
back towards the ceiling. On the plain (not conical) surface of this
mediaeval chimney are painted figures, said to be of the thirteenth
century, but probably later. One can distinguish a king, a cardinal, and a
page on horseback. The mediaeval fireplates are still in their old place at
the back of the vast hearth.

I have little more to add to this story of my wanderings. From La Brède
I went to Bordeaux, where I found much to admire that I had not noticed
before. The architecture of this city is incomparably richer than that of
Paris by the diversity of style and the good fortune that has protected so
many of the buildings from the destructive influences of war, fanaticism,
and the presumption of those who in all ages would abolish the past if they
could, and refashion the world according to their own ideas. The Roman
period is only represented by a fragment of the amphitheatre, now called
the Palais Gallien. But what a picturesque fragment this is, and how well
it introduces the visitor to the study of the Romanesque, the Gothic,
and the Renaissance buildings, of which he will find such characteristic
examples here! The interest of the Englishman will be increased by the
knowledge that some of the most notable of the Gothic edifices were raised
when to his countrymen Bordeaux was a continental London, and a well-known
tendency of his will probably lead him to attribute much of their grave
stateliness to the influence of the Anglo-Saxon character.

[Illustration: THE GARONNE AT BORDEAUX.]

The people of Bordeaux are supposed to have derived not a little of their
keen commercial spirit from the English. If this be so, they may take
credit for having in some respects surpassed their teachers. By the gift
of persuasiveness and the abundance of words, by aplomb, combined with
astuteness, they are fitted by nature to be the most successful traffickers
on earth. But in return for a little work they expect a great deal of
enjoyment, and more than most industrious cities is Bordeaux given up to
the worship of pleasure.

[Illustration: THE PALAIS CALLIEN AT BORDEAUX.]

From Bordeaux I continued down the river until I saw the Dordogne join the
Garonne, where both are lost in the Gironde. Here the two beautiful and
noble streams, one flowing from the Auvergne mountains, and the other from
the Pyrenees, no sooner embrace than they die on the breast of the salt
wave. They and their tributaries caused one of the sternest, and yet one
of the most smiling, of regions--a country where Nature seems to have the
passion of contrast, and where she brings forth all the best fruits of
the earth--to be named by the Celts the Land of Waters, and by the Romans
Aquitania. A little reflection explains why the English of the Middle Ages,
having once possessed it, should have clung to it with such tenacity. Less
easy is it to understand why so few of their descendants of to-day feel the
peculiar spell that almost every rood of this broad land should cast upon
them, apart from the charm of old story and of the picturesque that appeals
to all.

[Illustration: MAP SHOWING THE ITINERARY of 'TWO SUMMERS IN GUYENNE' and
'WANDERINGS BY SOUTHERN WATERS']

INDEX.

AGRICULTURE in the Corrèze,
  in Périgord,
Albigenses, The,
Ales,
Angelus, The,
Angling,
Architecture:
  Byzantine,
  Gothic,
  Renaissance,
  Roman,
  Romanesque,
Argentat,
Arnaud (Arnaud Daniel, troubadour),
Artaud, The (River),
Aspic, The,
Aubeterre,
Aulaye, St.,
Auvergnats, Descent of the,

Barthélemy, St.,
Bastides,
Bazas,
Bazile, St.,
Beaulieu,
Beüne, Valley of the,
Beynac,
Boëtie, Etienne de la,
Boleti,
Bordeaux,
Bordelaises,
Born, Bertrand de,
Bort,
Bourdeilles,
Brantôme,
  Abbey of,
  Pierre de Bourdeilles,
Brède (La),
Buckwheat,
Buisson (Le),
Bureau, Jean,

_Cacolets_,
Cadouin, Abbey of,
Cadurci, The,
Caesar at Uxeliodunum,
Carthusians of Vauclair,
Castillon,
  Battle of,
Castres (Gironde),
Cazoulès,
Cemeteries, Rural,
Céou, The (River),
Cépes,
Chandos,
Château d'Aubeterre,
  de Beynac,
  de Biron,
  de Bourdeilles,
  des Eyzies
  de Fâges,
  de Fénelon,
  de Grignols (Talleyrand),
  de Gurçons,
  de Hautefort,
  de Marouette,
  de Montaigne,
  de Montesquieu,
  de Nabinaud,
  de Villandraut,
Chavannon, Gorge of the,
Christy, Mr.,
Clement V., Pope,
Coiffure at Mont-Dore,
  in the Bordelais,
  in the Corrèze,
  in Périgord,
Coligny,
Condé, Madame de,
Court-Mantel, Henry,
Coutras,
Coux,
Crayfish,
Cyprien, St.,

Denis, St.,
Domme,
Dordogne, Valley of the,
Double, The,
Dovecots,
_Droit Seigneurial,_
Dronne, Valley of the,

Échourgnac,
Églisottes, Les,
Eleanor of Aquitaine,
Émilion, St.,
English, The, at Bordeaux,
  at Castillon,
  at Domme,
  at Les Eyzies,
  at Libourne,
  at Martel,
  at Montpont,
  at St. Émilion,
  at St. Cyprien,
  at Sarlat,
  at Tayac,
Eyquem. _See_ Montaigne
Eyzies, Les,

Fâge, La,
Fénelon,
Frogs,
Fronsac,
Front, St., Cathedral of,
Funeral Customs,

Gallien, Le Palais,
Garonne, Valley of the,
Gipsies,
Gironde, The (River),
Girondins, The,
Gorge of Hell, The,
Goth, Bertrand de,
Grand-Brassac,
Groléjac,
Guyenne, English rule in,

Hautefort,
Huguenots,

Ilex, The,
Implements, Flint,
Isle, Valley of the,

Jongleur, The modern,

Knolles, Robert,

Landes (of the Gironde),
Langon,
Laplau,
Leaguers, The,
Leopard, The English (Heraldic),
Libourne,
Limeuil,
Lisle,
  The Lord,
Luxège, The (River),

Macaire, St.,
Madeleine, La,
Malaria,
Man, Prehistoric,
Marcillac,
Martel,
  Charles,
Master and servant,
Méré, Poltrot de,
Messeix,
Métayage,
Michel-Bonnefare, St.,
Miremont, Cavern of,
Modières,
Mondane, St.,
Montaigne, Michel,
Montesquieu,
Montpont,
Mothe-Montravel, La,
Moustier, Le,
Nabinaud,
Neuvic,
Normans, The, in Périgord,

Orgues de Bort,
Oriel, The golden,
Owls,

Pantaléon, St,
Peasant-proprietor, The,
Périgord Noir,
Périgueux,
Plantagenet, Henry,
Plateau, Great Central, of France,
Plough, Ancient form of,
Poaching,
Politics, Local,
Port-Dieu,
Puy d'Issolu,

Raymond II., Viscount of Turenne,
Religious Customs,
Riberac,
Roche Canillac, La,
  Chalais, La,
Romance Language, The,
Roque-Gageac, La,
Rue, The (River),

Salignac, François de. _See_ Fénelon,
Sarlat,
Saut de la Saule, Le,
Sauterne, The vintage at,
Sauve, St.,
Savennes,
Sébastien, Dom,
Secondat, Charles de. _See_ Montesquieu,
Servières,
Shroud, The Holy,
Siorac,
Snail-eaters,
Songs of Périgord,
Souillac,
Spinning-wheels,
Superstition,

Taillefer,
Talbot,
Tarde, Jean,
Tayac, La Roque de,
  Church of,
Tocane St. Apre,
Tocsin, The,
Tour de Mareuil,
  de Vésone,
Trappists,
Troglodytes,
Truffles,
Turenne,
Tursac,

Uxellodunum,
Vauclaire, La Chartreuse de,
Vayrac,
Verdelais,
Vérère, Valley of the,
Victor, St.,
Villandraut,
Villefranche de Longchapt,
Villeinage,
Vin de plaine,
Vins du pays,
Vintage, The, In the Bordelais,
Viper, The Red,

Wages,
Wolves,


THE END.





End of Project Gutenberg's Two Summers in Guyenne, by Edward Harrison Barker





Produced by The Online Distributed Proofreading Team




The Outdoor Girls
at
Wild Rose Lodge
or
The Hermit of Moonlight Falls

by
Laura Lee Hope

Author of "The Outdoor Girls of Deepdale," "The
Outdoor Girls at Bluff Point," "The Moving
Picture Girls," "The Bobbsey Twins,"
"Bunny Brown and His Sister Sue,"
"Six Little Bunkers at Grandma
Bell's," Etc.




Contents



    I  Just Fun.
   II  The Falling Tree.
  III  The Queer Little Man.
   IV  Good News.
    V  Betty Takes a Dare.
   VI  Nearly Wrecked.
  VII  Bad Tidings Confirmed.
 VIII  Premonitions.
   IX  A Visitor.
    X  Hurrah for Allen.
   XI  The Hold-Up.
  XII  Sheep!
 XIII  The Enemy Routed.
  XIV  Nothing Human.
   XV  Wild Roses.
  XVI  The Whirlpool.
 XVII  The "Thing".
XVIII  Surprised.
  XIX  Like Old Times.
   XX  Very Much Alive.
  XXI  Out of the Dark.
 XXII  Tragedy.
XXIII  A Moonlight Apparition.
 XXIV  Recovered.
  XXV  The Old Crowd Again.





The Outdoor Girls at Wild Rose Lodge




Chapter I

Just Fun



"Did you ever see a more wonderful day?"

The four Outdoor Girls, in Mollie Billette's touring car and with Mollie
herself at the wheel, were at the present moment rushing wildly over a
dusty country road at the rate of thirty miles an hour.

Grace Ford was sitting in front with Mollie, while Betty Nelson and Amy
Blackford "sprawled," to use Mollie's sarcastic and slightly exaggerated
description, "all over the tonneau."

"You look as if you had never done a real day's work in your life," said
Mollie, with a disapproving glance over her shoulder at the girls in the
tonneau.

"We never have," returned quiet Amy, with a grin.

"And we are proud of it," added Betty, as she defiantly settled her feet
still more comfortably on the foot rail. "Why should we be energetic when
it is so much easier to be lazy?"

"There the proper spirit speaks," applauded Grace Ford from the front. "I
think I shall have to change places with you, Betty. It's far too exciting
up here with Mollie. She insists upon staging near collisions every few
feet--thus keeping me awake!"

"Great heavens!" cried Mollie, pressing an impatient foot upon the
accelerator to which the great car responded with an eager purring, "did
any one ever give us the mistaken title of Outdoor Girls, I wonder? They
should have called us the Rip Van Winkle club, instead."

"Now she's getting sour-castic," commented Grace lazily. "Have some candy,
honey, and sweeten up."

She passed the ever-present box of delicacies over to Mollie, to which
overture the young driver responded with so indignant a stare that Grace
quickly withdrew the box, tucked it behind her, and strove to look
unconscious.

"Please, ma'am, I didn't mean to do it," she said meekly.

"Well, don't do it again, that's all," returned Mollie, uncompromisingly,
her eyes once more on the road ahead, "I've eaten so many chocolates this
week that I've had indigestion and mother threatened to cut down my
allowance."

"Goodness, it's my allowance that suffers," retorted Grace, ruefully,
"since it is my candy that you eat."

"Stop quarreling, girls, and answer my question." said Betty, sitting up
straight and regarding delightedly a vista of flying hills and woodland
greenery. "I asked you a few minutes ago if you had ever seen so wonderful
a day?"

"Yes, plenty of 'em," returned Mollie, as she took a sharp curve on two
wheels. "If you weren't too lazy to notice anything, Betty Nelson, you
would see that there is a storm coming up. Look at those clouds over there
in the east."

"Oh, you're a kill-joy!" cried Betty, cocking an optimistic eye up at the
sky. "It's only one teeny little cloud anyway, and who cares for clouds
when the boys are coming home?"

Both Amy and Grace felt a breathless little tug at their hearts at the
joyful challenge in Betty's words, but Mollie, with a perverseness that
was sometimes characteristic of her, refused to be too happy.

"Who says they're coming home?" she asked. "Now you're only guessing."

"Guessing!" cried Betty indignantly. "What do you mean--guessing? The war
is over, isn't it?"

"Yes; and has been for quite a while," Mollie responded dryly. "But that
doesn't say that the boys are coming home right away."

"We don't care about the right away," interrupted Amy, with a quiet
happiness in her face that made Betty hug her impulsively. "We can wait
patiently, now that we know they are safe."

"It's all right for you to talk about patience, Amy," retorted Mollie,
throttling her engine and sliding at breakneck speed down a long hill
without the thought of using a brake. A brake to Mollie meant something to
be used at the last minute when she couldn't think of anything else to do.
"You're an angel, but I'm not----"

"No, indeed!" said Grace, so emphatically that the girls in the tonneau
chuckled and Mollie looked at her threateningly.

"For goodness' sake, don't waste time looking at me," Grace pleaded, as
they bounced into a hole in the road and out again, fairly jouncing the
breath from the girls' bodies. "Keep your eyes on the road, Mollie dear.
We're not ready to die yet."

"Well, look out, or you may--ready or not," threatened Mollie darkly, as
the car skidded around another precipitous turn and the girls saw with
relief a long stretch of flat road before them.

"Just the same the boys must be coming home before very long," said Amy,
quietly returning to the subject. "And when they do come we'll have to
give them some sort of big party or something, girls."

"Of course we will," said Grace, munching contentedly on a chocolate.
"Something that will make the people in Deepdale sit up and take notice."

"We-el--I don't know," objected Betty thoughtfully. "They say that the few
soldier boys who have come home object to any sort of fuss being made over
them. They seem to want to forget everything that has happened 'over
there,' and any sort of celebration brings the whole thing vividly before
them again."

"Yes, that's true, too," Mollie agreed. "I remember our doctor telling
mother that if people only wouldn't try to force confidences from the boys
and would try to keep all thought of the awful things they had been
through out of their minds, there would be fewer cases of nervous
breakdowns."

"Pop!" said Grace, snapping her finger resignedly. "There go all our hopes
of a good time, Amy. When the boys come home all we shall be allowed to do
will be to smooth their fevered brows and hold their hands."

"Well, we might do worse things even than that," said Betty, with a light
laugh, and Mollie shot her a malicious glance.

"Just watch Betty objecting to that" she said wickedly. "Before we know it
she will be sighing that Allen has only one fevered brow to smooth!"

Amy and Grace looked at Betty mischievously--at Betty who could not for
the life of her look as unconcerned as she would have liked.

"Don't be so foolish" she said hastily, at which the girls only laughed
the more.

"Never mind, honey," said Amy, putting an arm fondly about her chum. "I
guess we will all be crazy with joy to get the boys home again."

"Well, you needn't think you can hold hands with Will and smooth his
fevered brow all the time," said Grace unexpectedly. "Because I really
have some share in him myself, you know. Remember, mine was one of the
three pictures he kept under his pillow."

Readers of previous volumes in this series may recall that joyful letter
written to Betty not so long ago in which Sergeant Allen Washburn--now
Lieutenant Allen Washburn--had spoken of the three pictures which Will
Ford had kept under his pillow during his long convalescence in one of the
army hospitals over there. These readers may also remember that one of the
pictures was of the boy's mother, another of his sister, Grace, and the
third of shy little Amy Blackford, who now was blushing so furiously at
the mere mention of it.

"How about poor Frank and Roy?" asked Mollie, mentioning the other two
boys who made up the quartette of the girls' boy chums. "Who will attend
to their fevered brows?"

"Oh, you and Grace can take turns at that," said Betty, lightly adding,
with a little sigh: "Try as we can, Amy and I never know quite how to pair
you four off. We can't for the life of us find out which of you likes
Frank best and which inclines to Roy."

"That's right, kid--keep 'em guessing," said Mollie slangily, as she
turned on power and challenged a steep grade. "Grace and I believe in
scattering our favors--as 'twere. See that hill just ahead of us? What do
you bet I make it without changing gears?"

"If you make it without changing our looks, I'll be happy," said Grace
ruefully, as they bumped and rumbled to the top of the steep grade. "Look
out, Mollie!" she added suddenly, indicating a big pile of brushwood that
jutted out almost into the center of the road. "For goodness' sake, slow
down!"

But Mollie did more than slow down. She stopped--and with such suddenness
that the girls were all but thrown out of the car and Betty bumped her
nose on the seat in front.

They had scarcely regained their poise when they were startled by a shrill
cry from Amy.

"Girls!" she almost screamed, clutching Betty's arm in a grip that hurt,
"look at that tree. It's going to fall! Oh, we'll be killed!"

The girls followed the direction of her pointing finger and looks of
horror sprang to their eyes. Slowly, its descent retarded somewhat by the
branches of other trees, a towering giant of the forest tottered and
crashed its destructive way downward. And they were directly in its path!




Chapter II

The Falling Tree



For a moment the Outdoor Girls sat fascinated, paralyzed, without the
power to move a muscle. Then suddenly Grace seemed galvanized to action.
She leaned toward Mollie, grasping the steering wheel of the motionless
car frantically.

"For heaven's sake, Mollie, get out of the way! Start the car!" she
screamed.

"I can't!" Mollie answered, tight-lipped. "Something's wrong. The motor's
dead."

But with Grace's scream, Betty had come to her senses and had scrambled
out of the car, dragging the still paralyzed Amy after her.

"Grace, get out! Mollie, are you crazy?" she shouted wildly. "You'll be
killed--"

Automatically Grace started to clamber to the road, but Mollie still
fussed with brakes and levers, her lips in a tight line, her eyes blazing.

"Something's wrong--but I'll get her started," she muttered over and over
to herself while Betty raged at her from the road.

"Get out! get out!" fumed the Little Captain. "Jump, or I'll come after
you and we'll both be killed. Mollie!"

Luckily for Mollie's suicidal stubbornness, the great tree had been halted
for a moment in its downward plunge by some particularly heavy foliage and
branches, but the girls could see that it was only a matter of seconds
until the giant should tear itself loose and come plunging down upon them.

And still Mollie fumbled with levers in a vain and foolish attempt to save
her beloved car at the risk of her own life.

Betty had just jumped upon the running board in a wild attempt to drag her
chum from the car when suddenly help came to them from an unexpected
quarter.

An elderly man came running from the woods, evidently attracted by their
excited cries. He gave one look at the toppling tree, even now tearing
itself loose from the impeding branches, another at the machine with the
two girls still in it, and then, with a speed and decision which seemed to
belie his age, went to the rescue.

"Come--help me push!" he cried to Amy and Grace, who were still standing
dumbly in the middle of the road. A moment later he had thrown himself
with all his might against the machine, striving to push it out of the
path of the falling tree.

In an instant of time the girls had added their strength to his and the
automobile was moving slowly down the road. Luckily the car was on a down
grade or they never could have managed it. As it was, there was just time
to get out of the way when the great tree came crashing down, its
outermost branches just brushing Amy's skirt. The giant had fallen on the
very spot where the car had been only a moment before!

"Girls," breathed Betty, with a shaky little attempt at a laugh, "I guess
we've never in our lives been nearer death than we were just then."

And while the girls are marveling at their almost miraculous escape from a
terrible death, time will be taken to introduce the Outdoor Girls to those
readers who have not yet met them and also to review briefly a few of the
exciting and interesting adventures they have had up to the time of this
present narrative.

There were four of them. Betty Nelson, or the "Little Captain" as the
girls often called her because she had such a decided talent for knowing
just the right thing to do at just the right moment, was eighteen,
dark-haired and dark-eyed. She had a fund of vitality and more than her
share of sense and good judgment--all of which went toward making her what
she was, the most popular girl in Deepdale.

Grace Ford, tall, slender and willowy, was almost the same age as Betty,
but that fact and her love of the outdoors were the only things she had in
common with the "Little Captain." Her father, James Ford, was a lawyer,
and her mother, Mrs. Margaret Ford, a rather dressy lady who spent a good
deal of her time at clubs, was quite a figure in the society of Deepdale.
However, all through the war Mrs. Ford had worked with an untiring
enthusiasm for the "cause," a fact which had made her many more friends
than her social popularity could ever have done.

Next in the little quartette came Mollie Billette. Mollie was seventeen,
French-American, and impulsive, with a quick temper that made more trouble
for herself than for any one else. She and Betty were alike in their
splendid vigor and vitality. Mollie, or "Billy" as she was sometimes
called by her chums, had a very lovely widowed mother and an extremely
mischievous young brother and sister, Paul and Dora (nicknamed "Dodo"),
who were twins and six. Although the twins were pretty nearly always in
trouble, they were really adorable children, whom everybody loved.

Amy Blackford, shy, sweet, pretty, completed the quartette. There had been
a mystery about her past which had recently been cleared up, and it may
have been this mystery that caused the girls to treat her with a little
more consideration and gentleness than they did each other. Her guardian
was a broker in the city who knew very little of the past except through
letters.

The four boys who were close chums of the girls and had added to the
interest and excitement of more than one of their adventures were Allen
Washburn, who was very much interested in Betty, and in whom Betty was
very much interested; Will Ford, Grace's brother, who had carried Amy
Blackford's picture all through the war; Frank Haley, Will Ford's closest
chum, and Roy Anderson who had not much distinction of any kind except
that he was "lots of fun" and a chum of the other three boys.

In the first volume of this series the girls went on a camping and
tramping tour, tramping for miles over the country and meeting with many
adventures on the way.

Later they had more fun at Rainbow Lake, in a motor car, in a winter camp,
in Florida, at Ocean View, then at Pine Island where the girls and boys
together had cleared up a mystery surrounding a gypsy cave.

Later the girls and boys found themselves caught in the meshes of the
great war, as many hundreds of thousands of others had been. The boys
responded eagerly to the bugle call, and the girls, too, were eager for
Army service and finally went to a hostess house at Camp Liberty. Though
the girls had never worked harder in their lives, they found that the task
had a stirringly romantic side as well.

Then in the volume directly preceding this, entitled "The Outdoor Girls at
Bluff Point" the girls had had perhaps the most exciting adventure of all.

The Hostess House at Camp Liberty having burnt down, the chums found
themselves forced to take a much-needed, although not entirely welcome,
vacation and had decided to spend it at a romantic spot near the ocean
called Bluff Point. The cottage on the bluff had been loaned to the girls
by Grace's patriotic Aunt Mary, who declared that she owed something to
the chums for having worked so hard for the good old Stars and Stripes.
Mrs. Ford, worn out with war work, had gone with the girls to chaperon
them.

Bad tidings at first threatened to overwhelm the chums. The Fords received
word that Will was seriously wounded "somewhere in France" and later
Mollie received a telegram from her mother saying that the twins, Dodo and
Paul, had disappeared. Still later, while everything was at its blackest,
Betty read Allen Washburn's name among the missing. However, everything
cleared up later when the twins, who had been kidnapped, were recovered
and their kidnapper sent to justice. Still later Allen proved that the
report that he had been missing was an error by writing to Betty himself
and in the letter he also spoke of Will Ford and the fact that he was
getting over his wound splendidly. Of course there had been great
rejoicing and the vacation had proved a happy one after all.

And now, at the time of this story, the war was over and the first
regiments of soldiers had arrived from the other side and the girls were
expecting a joyful reunion with the boys at any time.

They had not yet made definite plans for the summer and were just in the
position of waiting for something to happen when something had happened
with a vengeance--but not at all the kind of something which the four
girls had expected.

"I think you are right, my dear," said the man who had saved the lives of
at least two of the girls, rubbing his hands fussily together and peering
out of small, near-sighted eyes, first at the tree and then at the girls.
"It was a close call--a very close call. I declare, it was very nearly the
closest call I ever saw!"

For the first time the girls really looked at him. He was a rather small
man, slenderly built, with long sensitive hands and a very bald head, in
the center of which a tuft of hair stood comically upright. These
characteristics, coupled to the squinting eyes, gave the man a very odd
appearance.

He was so queer a figure standing there in the center of the road that the
girls found themselves staring unduly. Realizing something of this, Betty
jumped down from the running board where she was still standing and held
out her hand to the little man, thanking him in a voice that still
trembled a little for the great service he had done them. The other girls
followed suit and so overwhelmed their rescuer that he seemed quite
embarrassed and looked around nervously as if for some means of escape.

Betty, seeing his embarrassment, was about to take pity upon him when
something happened that they had not bargained for. It began to rain, not
gently, but in a deluge, taking the girls completely by surprise.

Instinctively they turned toward the car, but Mollie suddenly began to
laugh in a half-hysterical manner.

"This is what I call fun" she said. "Engine dead, caught in the rain, and
I've even left the side curtains at home! I guess we're in for it, girls."




Chapter III

The Queer Little Man



While the girls stood looking wildly at each other their unknown rescuer
seemed suddenly galvanized to action.

"This won't do at all!" he cried, raising both hands to his bald head
which was by this time very wet and more shiny than ever. "You will get
your death of cold, young ladies, you surely will. You must come with me.
Here, right along this path I have a cottage--" All the time he was
talking he was hustling them fussily ahead of him, for all the world like
some old hen with a brood of chickens.

The girls, not knowing what else to do and being in rather a bewildered
frame of mind, allowed themselves to be hustled. The rain was sheeting
down in a terrific cloud burst, so that their clothes clung to them damply
and they began to shiver.

They circled the fallen tree which had so nearly been their undoing, and a
moment later found themselves upon a narrow footpath which seemed to lead
into the very heart of the woods.

"I wonder where he is taking us," whispered Grace in Betty's ear. "Maybe
he's a murderer or something."

In spite of her discomfort, Betty giggled.

"Did you ever see a murderer with a bald head like that?" she asked.

It seemed to the girls as if the path must be at least a mile long, but
just as they were despairing of ever reaching the end of it, they came out
into a partially cleared space and through the trees caught a glimpse of
something that looked like a house.

Their new acquaintance, who up to this time had been bringing up the rear,
now took the lead and led them over tangled underbrush, stones and
foot-bruising rocks, to his strange little dwelling.

"It's a house, it's a house!" cried Grace thankfully, as they hurried
after the little man. "I guess somebody will have to wring me out when we
get inside. I'm soaked through!"

"Goodness, why don't you tell us something we don't know?" grumbled
Mollie, but nobody was listening to her. They had reached the house and
the man had swung the door open hospitably.

"Step inside, step inside, do," he urged with a nervous gesture that
reminded the girls once more of the proverbial hen. "You will find it dry
at least, and I will have a fire for you in a hurry. Just a moment till I
get some wood--just a moment--"

And while he rambled on, suiting his words with quick nervous action, the
girls crowded inside the cottage and looked about them curiously.

The room they had entered was large and scrupulously neat. At first glance
it seemed a queer combination of hunting lodge and museum of natural
history. The rough clapboards and beams of the ceiling and walls had never
been plastered, and this very crudity seemed somehow to give the room an
air of warmth and home-likeness that was very inviting.

Hung on the walls were several fairly large skins of animals, a gun or
two, and over the huge open fireplace, which very nearly covered one end
of the room, hung the magnificent head of a buck.

On the wall opposite the fireplace was a set of rudely-erected shelves,
one beneath the other, and these shelves were covered with specimens of
butterflies, beetles and other bugs of every size and description. That
the specimens had been mounted by an expert even an inexperienced eye
could see.

The girls, who had been regarding the oddities of the room with growing
interest, were brought back to a realization of the discomfort of wet
clothes by the owner of the place himself.

The latter had brought firewood from somewhere, and, with the aid of half
a dozen matches, had succeeded in getting a fairly good blaze.

Then with a smile of satisfaction he turned to the girls, rubbing his
hands together genially.

"Come nearer to the fire--come closer--do," he urged in his quick nervous
way. "I am sure you are chilled through--quite chilled through. I will
bring chairs." He stopped abruptly and looked about him with an
embarrassed air, his gaze coming to rest on the only chair which adorned
the room.

Betty, seeing his confusion, was trying to think of something helpful to
say, when the little man suddenly found a way out of his quandary.

"Ah, I have it!" he cried, seizing enthusiastically upon a long bench that
stood on one side of the room. "Four can sit upon this quite easily, I am
sure. A happy thought--a very happy thought--" and he pulled and tugged at
the bench until he succeeded in moving it close to the fire.

Afterward it occurred to the girls that they might have helped him, for it
was a very heavy bench and he was rather a frail old man. But at the time
they were too interested in this unusual place and their rather
extraordinary host to think of anything very rational.

However, they seated themselves dutifully in a row upon the bench, "for
all the world like an orphan asylum out for an airing," as Mollie said
later, and gratefully stretched out their sodden shoes to the blaze.

They were cold and they were wet and they were fast becoming very hungry,
all of which might have been expected to form a very good reason why they
should have been miserable. But they weren't miserable--not at all. To the
Outdoor Girls the thrill of an adventure always more than counterbalanced
the possible discomforts attending it.

Their host started to draw up the one chair in the room, hesitated a
moment then, as though he had just thought of something, turned and darted
through the door, closing it with a little click behind him.

For the space of half a second the girls looked after him. Then they
looked at each other. Then they drew a long breath and let loose the flood
of curious questions which had been struggling for expression for the past
twenty minutes.

"Well, isn't this a lark?" cried Mollie, her eyes dancing, "Half an hour
ago we were awfully bored, and now look at us."

"Yes, look at us," said Grace with a little sniff. "I'm sure we're not
very much to look at right now with our hair wet, and our clothes--"

"Oh, for goodness' sake, who cares about such things?" cried Betty gaily.
"I think this is a darling place and I'm having the time of my life. I
wonder who he is?"

"He seemed kind of scared just now, didn't he?" chuckled Mollie, feeling
her shoe to see if it was drying out any. "It was funny the way he bolted
out of the room."

"Poor old dear--no wonder he was scared," commented Grace, as she took off
her hat and tried to do something with her hopelessly bedraggled locks.
"The way we look we're enough to scare anybody. Oh, dear, hasn't any one a
comb?"

"Why, of course, we carry a complete beauty parlor outfit just for your
benefit, dear," giggled Mollie. "The rest of us don't need it though, We
are too beautiful naturally."

"You know I like him a lot, the queer little man, I mean," said Amy,
evidently following out her own train of thought. "He seems kind of fussy
and peculiar but he has an awfully nice smile."

"Trust Amy to find the smile," said Betty, putting an arm fondly about the
younger girl. "And of course we all like him," she added seriously. "If it
hadn't been for him we probably wouldn't be feeling so happy right now."

"Yes, we would probably be in some hospital with our unhappy relatives
weeping over our mangled remains," said the irrepressible Mollie, and
laughed at the shriek that went up at her gruesome remark. "There probably
wouldn't have been enough of us left to recognize," she added by way of
good measure, and they shrieked again.

"For goodness' sake, let's talk of something pleasant," said Grace, rising
suddenly and going over to the window. "If you want to sit on that old
bench all day, you can."

It appeared that the girls had no intention of sitting on the bench all
day. They got up and sauntered about the room, examining the skins on the
walls and looking, but without much curiosity, at the rifles. They
lingered longest before the shelves of butterflies and beetles, for some
of the specimens were really beautiful and very rare.

After they had examined everything in sight they began to grow restive.
They must have been in the place nearly an hour and it suddenly occurred
to them to wonder where their host had been keeping himself all this time.

"I wish we could get started," worried Mollie, looking out upon the sodden
landscape. The rain was apparently coming down just as hard as ever. "I
hate to leave the car all by itself out there. Somebody might steal it."

"I wish I knew where that man was," said Grace nervously. "I never trust
strange men. He may set the house on fire for all we know."

The words were hardly out of her mouth when the door opened and the topic
of conversation himself entered, carrying a tray so big and heaped so high
with sandwiches that one could scarcely discover the man behind it.

Betty and Amy ran to his assistance, and between them they got the tray
safely to the bench. In one delighted glance the girls saw that not only
sandwiches, but a steaming pot of coffee and the remains of what had been
a great, three-layer chocolate cake were on the tray.

At thought of the fussy little man taking all this time and trouble, for
it must have taken a good deal of work to make all that formidable array
of sandwiches--the girls were sincerely touched and regarded their host
with a new interest.

"There, there," he was saying, regarding the heaped-up tray with evident
pleasure, "you must sit down and eat at once. You must be nearly starved--
famished. I hope this will be enough."

He looked at them so anxiously that Betty felt like hugging him--and
nearly did it.

"Enough! Well, I guess it is enough," she said heartily, as the other
girls seated themselves on the bench either side of the tempting tray and
began enthusiastically to help themselves. "It would be plenty for an
army. We can't thank you enough."

"Indeed we can't," added Mollie.

"It's awfully good of you," said Grace, as she took a bite of her ham
sandwich.

"Awfully good," added Amy, like an echo.

The little man waved aside their thanks and drew up the one chair in the
room, talking all the time in his quick, jerky fashion.

"It was no trouble, I am sure,--no trouble whatever," he said, adding as
though he wished to change the subject: "You didn't tell me your name--"
he hesitated, looking at Betty, who of course did tell him her name on the
spot. This proved a signal for mutual introductions, and the girls learned
that their new friend was a college professor, Arnold Dempsey by name.
They also learned that he had taken up woodcraft in the hope of recovering
his health.

And while they contentedly munched sandwiches and sipped steaming coffee
the girls learned a good deal more about Arnold Dempsey, and the more they
learned of him the more they felt drawn to him.

And when he started to tell them of his two sons who had fought so nobly
in the army of democracy, their eyes began to shine and they leaned toward
him with an interest that was intensely real.

"Oh, it must be wonderful to have two big soldier sons," cried Amy,
forgetting her shyness in her enthusiasm. "Aren't you dreadfully proud?"

A gleam came into Professor Dempsey's eyes and his thin shoulders
straightened.

"Yes, yes," he said. "Of course I'm proud of my boys--very proud. And I
hope," a look of absolute happiness came into his eyes and he smiled
contentedly, "that before very long I shall see them."

"Oh, I'm sure you will!" cried Betty eagerly.

"That's what we are all hoping for, anyway," said Grace, adding with a
sigh: "The boys have been gone so <i>dreadfully</i> long."

"Look," cried Mollie presently, rising suddenly to her feet and pointing
toward the window. "We have been so busy talking that we never noticed the
sun had come out."

"And doesn't it look good!" exulted Betty.

In spite of their reluctance to leave their new-found friend, the girls
were anxious to be off, for they knew their parents would be worrying
about them.

Professor Dempsey insisted on seeing them safely back to the road although
they protested that there was absolutely no need of it.

"There are two or three paths that lead to the road," he explained, as he
flung wide the door, letting in a flood of sunshine, "and I wouldn't have
you lose your way for the world--not for the world!"

The woodland was beautiful after the rain, and the girls sniffed the
fragrant air eagerly as they followed Professor Dempsey along the path. It
was not till they had almost reached the road that Mollie had a
disquieting thought.

"How do we know but what we're stuck here for good?" she asked the girls.
"The car stopped dead, you remember, just under that horrible tree, and
I'm sure I don't know what in the world made it. If I can't find out the
trouble--"

"Oh, but you've got to find it," protested Grace, while Betty and Amy
looked worried. "We can't stay here all night, and it may be a dozen miles
to the nearest garage."

"I know that just as well as you do," grumbled Mollie. "But if I can't, I
can't, that's all."

By this time they had reached the road and Mollie went straight to the
car. While she and Betty were trying to find out what was wrong the other
two girls and Professor Dempsey looked on anxiously.

"Well, as far as I can see there is absolutely nothing wrong with it,"
snapped Mollie at last, lifting a face flushed with exertion. "Get in,
girls, and I'll start the engine--or try to. Then if she won't go we'll
have to make up our minds to stay here all night or walk to the next
garage."

Accordingly the girls got in and Mollie pressed the self-starter. To her
great surprise, the engine purred a response, and as she shifted her gears
the car moved slowly forward.

"Oh, goodie, we're going," cried Amy, and the faces of the other girls
showed relief.

"Must have been a drop of water in the gasoline," hazarded Mollie, and
then she throttled the engine once more while she and her chums turned to
say good-bye to Professor Dempsey. The latter was still standing in the
road, looking up at them rather wistfully.

"I'm glad that I had an opportunity of helping you, young ladies--very
glad," he answered, in response to their repeated thanks. "You conferred a
great favor on me also, for I have little company. Good-bye--and good luck
to you."

The girls responded gayly, and as they started forward Betty leaned far
out of the machine to call back an encouraging: "Keep hoping hard for your
boys to come home. I am sure they will be back soon."

"Thank you, young lady, thank you," said Professor Dempsey, but the words
were too low for Betty to catch and she was too far away to see the mist
that sprang suddenly to his eyes.




Chapter IV

Good News



Deepdale, the home of the four Outdoor Girls, is a thriving little city
with a population of about fifteen thousand people. It is situated on the
Argono River, a pleasant stream where a great many of the young folk of
Deepdale, and some of the older ones too, keep motor boats and canoes and
various other types of pleasure craft.

Farther on, the Argono empties into Rainbow Lake, which is picturesque in
the extreme. It has several pretty and romantic looking islands, chief of
which is Triangle Island--so called because of its shape.

There is a boat running from Deepdale to Clammerport at the foot of
Rainbow Lake, and this boat is almost always crowded with pleasure
seekers. In addition to this Deepdale is situated in the heart of New York
state and is only a hundred-and-fifty-mile run from the city of that name.
Thus one can easily see that Deepdale is a very desirable place in which
to live.

At least that is what the four Outdoor Girls thought. And since they had
spent most of their lives there, they certainly ought to know!

On the morning of this day, some ten days or so after their strange
encounter with Professor Dempsey, the girls were gathered on Betty's
porch, talking over their plans for the summer.

"I am only waiting to hear from Uncle John," Mollie was saying, as she
swung lazily back and forth in the couch swing. "The last time I saw him
he said that he was almost sure to go north this summer and he told me
that as soon as he made definite plans he would let me know."

"You told us that two weeks ago," Grace reminded her. "And we haven't
heard from him yet."

"It does seem to take him a long time to make up his mind," sighed Amy.

Betty, who had been trying to read a novel, closed the book and turned to
them with a laugh.

"Goodness, you all sound doleful," she told them. "It seems to me that we
ought to be able to live through it, even if we don't get Wild Rose Lodge
for the summer. There are plenty of other things we can do."

Mollie turned upon her indignantly.

"How you talk, Betty Nelson," she scolded her. "As if we could possibly
have as good a time anywhere else as we could at Wild Rose Lodge. Think of
being in a real hunting lodge out in the woods away from everybody! Why,
it will be a real adventure--"

"All right. I surrender--don't shoot," laughed Betty, coming over and
perching on the railing beside Mollie. "I admit we should probably have
more fun at the lodge than we could anywhere else. I was only trying to
look on the bright side of things in case our plans should fall through.
Hello--who's this?"

"This" proved to be Mollie's little sister Dora, or "Dodo," as she was
called by almost everybody. With a sigh of relief, the girls saw that
Dodo's twin brother, Paul, was not with her, for together the children
were a simply unconquerable pair.

The twins had been spoiled by their widowed mother, Mrs. Billette, even
before the time when they had been kidnapped and spirited off by a hideous
Spaniard. But since their recovery, their joyful mother had indulged them
in every way until they had become well nigh unmanageable.

Yet in spite of everything, the twins were very lovable, and every one
loved them, even those whom they annoyed most.

And now as Dodo tore up the street toward them, waving something white in
her hand, the girls instinctively glanced about to see what they ought to
put out of sight before the cyclone struck them.

"Thank goodness, Paul isn't with her," murmured Grace. "Then we would be
in for it."

"Dodo," cried Mollie as the child started up the walk, "scrape some of
that mud off your feet before you come up. You will get Betty's porch all
dirty."

"Name's Dora--not Dodo," the little girl answered, paying not the
slightest heed to Mollie's caution about the mud. "Dodo's a baby's name--
don't like it. Got something for you."

She stumbled heedlessly up the steps, leaving a trail of mud behind her,
and almost breaking her neck in the bargain.

"Now just look at Betty's porch," Mollie was beginning in exasperation
when Betty laughingly interfered.

"Oh, let her alone, Mollie," she coaxed. "The porch was dirty anyway and--
what's that you have in your hand, Dodo?"

"Sumfin' for Mollie," answered Dodo, leaning sulkily against the rail
while the girls regarded her anxiously. "An' if Mallie aren't nice to me
she can't have it."

"Oh, for goodness' sake be nice to her and get it over with, Mollie,"
urged Grace, uneasily conscious of the candy box she had shoved hastily
behind her. She was afraid one corner of it might show.

So Mollie got down from her perch on the railing and went over coaxingly
to the little girl.

"Give it to Mollie, honey," she begged. "I'll even call you Dora, if you
will."

"<i>Always</i> Dora--<i>never</i> Dodo?" asked Dodo eagerly, for she was
growing out of babyhood just enough to resent being called by her baby
name.

"Always Dora," Mollie promised.

For answer Dodo held out the white thing she had waved at them from the
street, and with a little cry of excitement Mollie saw that it was a
letter addressed to her in her Uncle John's firm hand.

At her exclamation the girls crowded round her eagerly. She hastily tore
open the envelope and devoured the contents. Then she turned to the girls
with a glowing face.

"It's all right, it's all right!" she cried, waving the letter round her
head like a flag and nearly upsetting her chums. "Uncle John says it is
settled. He is going to Canada for a couple of months and we can have the
lodge for the whole time he is away or a part of it, just as we wish.
Hooray! How's that for luck?"

The girls were so excited over their good fortune that they forgot all
about Dodo. She, finding herself unobserved, had slipped around the girls
to the swing, snatched the box of candy which Grace had exposed when she
got up, had taken the steps two at a time and was flying off down the
street before the girls saw what she was up to.

Then it was Grace who, with a dreadful premonition, thought of her candy.
She turned quickly, saw that the box was gone, and uttered a wail of woe.

"That little Turk of a sister of yours has done it again," she cried,
turning to Mollie, while Betty and Amy began to laugh. "You just wait till
I catch her. I'll get my candy back if I have to--spank her," this last
with a fierce scowl.

Betty put an arm about her excited chum, led her over to the swing and put
her down in it.

"By the time you caught Dodo there wouldn't be any of your candy left,"
she said, adding soothingly: "Never mind, honey. We will get you some more
if we have to take up a collection."

"Makes me feel like an orphan's home," grumbled Grace, but she laughed
nevertheless with the rest and immediately forgot both her candy and Dodo
in renewed excitement over Wild Rose Lodge.

"Just where is this place, Mollie?" asked Amy. "What is it called?"

"Oh, that's the very best part of it," said Mollie, with a mysterious
smile. "It has the most wonderful, most romantic name. Come closer while I
whisper it--Moonlight Falls. There, isn't that a real name for a place?"

"Wild Rose Lodge at Moonlight Falls," sighed Grace ecstatically. "If we
don't have a wildly romantic time in a place with a name like that, it
will be our own fault."

"But we will have to have a chaperon--" Amy was beginning when Betty
interrupted her eagerly.

"I have fixed that," she said, and while they all looked in astonishment
she went on quickly to explain. "I met Mrs. Irving in the street the other
day--you know she has been away ever since that last time she was with us
on Pine Island--and I asked her then if she would chaperon us this
summer."

"But you didn't even know then that we were going to Wild Rose Lodge,
Betty," Mollie interrupted.

"I knew we were sure to go somewhere. We always--" Betty was arguing when
Grace cut in impatiently.

"Never mind about that," she said. "Did Mrs. Irving say she would go?"

"She said she was very sure she could manage it," Betty answered. "She
seemed awfully surprised and said it would be great fun to be with us
girls again."

"It will be great fun for all of us," said Amy happily. "I'll never forget
the wonderful time we had on Pine Island with Mrs. Irving and the boys."

"Yes--and the boys," Betty repeated a little wistfully. She was thinking
of Allen Washburn and the wonderful time they had had that never-to-be-
forgotten summer--before the war had come to separate them and make their
hearts ache. Oh, it would be unbelievably happy to have the boys back
again--Will, Roy, Frank and--her Allen. The old crowd together once more.
She looked around at the girls, who had also fallen into a thoughtful
mood, and suddenly she smiled, the old bright, happy smile that was
peculiarly Betty's own.

"Oh, cheer up, everybody," she cried gayly. "How do we know but what the
boys will be home in time to join us at Wild Rose Lodge? Then think of the
fun!"

"Oh, Betty, if we could only believe that!" they cried.

"Well," said the Little Captain stoutly, "you never can tell. Stranger
things have happened, you know."

"But nothing so joyful," added Mollie.




Chapter V

Betty Takes a Dare



It would be a week or two before Wild Rose Lodge would be ready for the
girls' occupancy, and as a relief for their impatience they filled in the
time in hiking, motoring and put-putting up and down the Argono in their
natty little motor boat.

But whatever it was they were doing, their conversation almost invariably
returned to one of two subjects--the return of the boys and the good time
they would have at Moonlight Falls.

They spoke often of Professor Arnold Dempsey. They took a real interest in
the queer little old man, both because of the service he had done them and
the fact that he was watching and waiting for his two big sons, even as
they were anxiously awaiting the return of their boys.

"It must be dreadfully lonely for him in that little cabin or house or
whatever you call it in the woods," Amy said one day as she and the girls
sauntered down to the dock where their motor boat was anchored. "And he
said he hardly ever had company."

"Goodness, I should think he would go crazy," Mollie commented. "Why, I go
almost mad when I don't have any one to talk to for an <i>hour</i>."

"I wonder if he lived in that little house all during the war," said Betty
thoughtfully. They had reached the dock and were walking slowly out upon
it. "If he did, it must have been dreadfully hard for him. It makes me
shiver to think of him sitting there all alone, reading the casualty list,
terrified for fear the next name would be that of his son----"

"Oh, Betty," cried gentle Amy, all her sympathy quickly roused by the
picture Betty had drawn, "what a dreadful thing to think of!"

"But he never did find their names among the missing or killed," Mollie
reminded them soberly. "We know that because he said he expected to see
them soon."

"Of course. And all we can do is hope with all our hearts that he gets his
wish," said Betty brightly, adding with a sudden change of subject: "But
away with dull care. The sun is shining and here's our fairy ship waiting
to carry us off to fresh adventure. What more could any one want, I'd like
to know."

"Humph," grunted Mollie, eyeing critically the trim little boat in which
they had had so much fun and adventure, as the other girls tumbled aboard.
"I'd say she didn't look very much like a fairy boat just now. She needs
considerable polishing and scrubbing. Why don't you girls get busy,
anyhow?"

"Just hear who's talking," yawned Grace, disposing herself lazily in a
comfortable chair on deck. "I haven't noticed you waving a broom and mop
frantically around these parts lately, Mollie dear."

"In fact," Betty added with a mischievous twinkle in her eye, "I think I
remember suggesting that the <i>Gem</i> needed grooming the other day.
Whereupon some one who shall be nameless suggested a motor ride instead."

"She's got you there, old dear," drawled Grace, taking the inevitable box
of chocolates from her pocket and opening it lovingly. "I remember the
incident pre-zactly as it has been described."

Mollie, who was still standing on the dock, regarding them frowningly,
started to reply but Betty interrupted her with a shout. She had started
the engine and the boat began to move slowly away from the dock.

"Better hurry up," suggested the Little Captain wickedly. "We'd rather not
leave you behind, but if you insist--"

However, Mollie had not the slightest intention in the world of being left
behind. With a gasp of mingled surprise and dismay she made a jump for it,
cleared the foot of space between the dock and the boat and landed square
in the middle of Grace's astonished and outraged lap. She would have sat
on the candy box, too, and would, in all probability, have ruined it and
her dress as well, had not Grace, with rare presence of mind, whipped the
box out of danger just in the nick of time.

"Well," said Mollie, too surprised and indignant to move for a moment,
while, at the comical picture she made, both Betty and Amy laughed
merrily, "I surely like this!"

"You do, do you? Well, I don't!" cried Grace, recovering both her breath
and her dignity at the same moment. "If you don't stop sitting on my lungs
this minute, Mollie Billette, I'll--I'll--stick this pin into you."

With a yell Mollie stumbled to her feet and shook out her dress
belligerently.

"You had better not. I'm stronger than you, Grace Ford, and I've a good
mind to let you see what the bottom of the river looks like."

She advanced toward her prospective victim, and Betty stopped laughing
long enough to call to her.

"You'd better change your mind, Mollie," she cautioned merrily. "You can't
give Gracie a ducking without ruining her dress and she might charge you
damages. Reconsider--I beg of you, reconsider!"

Mollie condescended to reconsider and plumped herself down cross-legged on
the deck, disdaining a chair.

"Oh, very well," she said, adding as she glared darkly at Grace: "You will
probably never know, woman, how near to death you were."

To which Grace replied with unexpected ferocity.

"And you may never know, woman, just how near to death you are this
minute. Look at what you have done to my best sport skirt. I don't believe
I will ever be able to get those wrinkles out."

"If you two will stop quarreling just long enough to tell me where you
want to go," Betty requested, "I should be very much obliged. Up or down
the river?"

"Anywhere," answered Grace, still regarding her crumpled sport skirt
gloomily. "We are just trying to kill time this afternoon anyway, so I
don't see that it makes much difference where we go."

"Suppose we take her up to the Point," suggested Mollie, getting up from
the deck and going over to Betty who still had the wheel. "Maybe we can
get some ice-cream and a drink of ice water. I am getting dreadfully
thirsty already."

Betty looked tempted but a little doubtful.

"You know it is pretty dangerous to run in there, Mollie," she protested.
"There are so many other boats driven by Percy Falconer's crazy lot who
don't care whether they capsize you or not--"

"Goodness, Betty, it isn't like you to be afraid," Mollie started, but
stopped at the look in the "Little Captain's" eye.

"I'd rather you didn't ever say that again, Mollie," she said. "I'll take
you in there since you want it, but if anything should happen remember
that I warned you."

"Goodness, Mollie, I don't see why you ever wanted to go and suggest that
for," said Grace nervously. "We all know there is danger of a collision
over at the Point, and I'm sure I don't want to spoil my clothes, even if
you do."

"Your father said that he would rather we kept to this side of the river,
Betty," urged Amy. "Please don't go over to the Point now."

"There's no use talking to her," snapped Grace. "You ought to know Betty
well enough by this time to know that she would take us over to the Point
now, after what Mollie said, if she knew we would all die of it. Might as
well save your breath."

Mollie said nothing, but down in her heart she was more than a little bit
anxious and was beginning to regret that she had deliberately egged Betty
on.

Percy Falconer, of whom Betty had spoken, had once been a rather dudish,
affected boy and had later developed into an exceedingly fast young man.
He had an immensely rich father and a mother who denied him nothing so
that he had been able to gather together a few kindred spirits among whom
he was the leader. All the regular boys and girls in town thoroughly
disliked "the set," but there were a few girls who were willing to put up
with Percy Falconer and his crowd for sake of the long motor rides,
dances, dinners and motorboat picnics that the boys were able to give
them.

There were always some of this wild crowd over at the "Point," and it was
for this reason as well as the very real danger of a collision with a
recklessly driven boat that Betty's father had rather discouraged the
chums going over to that side of the river.

However the day was fine, the water of the river was as calm as a lake and
the <i>Gem</i> flew across the sparkling water like a gull, bringing a
flush of pure excitement and pleasure to the faces of the girls. Danger--
what danger could there be in this staunch little craft, with Betty at the
wheel?

They were half way across the river, now--three quarters. The gay pleasure
craft flaunting up and down the river were becoming more numerous and
Betty slackened speed. Her breath came more quickly and her hands
tightened on the wheel. She could drive a boat as well as any boy, but
here, she knew, was a situation to test her greatest skill.

Craft of all sizes and descriptions seemed to the excited girls to be
piling up about them. Most of the boats were being navigated carefully,
but now and then a small, fast speed-craft would shoot out from behind
another so suddenly that Betty would be forced to swerve sharply to one
side, fairly grazing the stern of the racing boat.

On one of these occasions, when it had seemed impossible to avoid a
collision, Amy called out sharply:

"Oh, Betty, don't you think we had better go back?"

And Betty replied with a queer little laugh:

"Might just as well go ahead as back now. We'll be there in a minute.
Don't worry."

The words were scarcely out of her mouth when two craft running neck and
neck and driven recklessly slipped out from behind a sailboat and drove
directly down upon the <i>Gem</i>. It seemed impossible that the Outdoor
Girls could escape disaster.




Chapter VI

Nearly Wrecked



The girls did not scream. Perhaps they were too frightened or perhaps it
was just natural pluck.

They did jump to their feet though as if with some wild thought of leaping
overboard. But there they remained, staring with fascinated eyes at the
fate that was bearing down upon them.

As for Betty, after one breath-taking minute when all the blood in her
body seemed to rush to her head, she simply sat there and tried in the
second that was given her to think what to do.

Almost automatically, she wrenched the wheel around, nearly capsizing the
boat with the sudden turn. At almost the same second, as though the thing
had been prearranged, the boys in the racing craft swung around in the
opposite direction.

A slight scraping as the side of the <i>Gem</i> slid along the side of the
nearer of the racing craft, and they were safe, with no harm done with the
exception of a little paint scraped from the side of the boat.

It was a moment before the girls could realize what had happened to them.
Then a voice hailed them from the boat alongside. In a glance the girls
perceived that the voice belonged to no other than Percy Falconer himself.

"Hello," called Percy, adding boisterously as he recognized the girls:
"Well, by all that's holy, if it isn't the Outdoor Girls! Thought you
never came over to this side of the river."

"We don't," Betty answered, the hand that still gripped the wheel shaking
nervously now that the danger was over. "And I don't believe we ever will
again, either!"

"I say, your teeth are chattering," cried Percy, looking at Betty in open
admiration. In the old days, Percy had tried hard to win favor in Betty's
eyes, but the latter had always treated him with a good-natured
indifference not unmixed with contempt that had been very hard for the
young dude to bear. During the years he had still admired Betty from afar
and hated Allen Washburn for being the "lucky one." So now he hastened to
make the most of what he thought was an opportunity.

"Come on over to the Point with me and Derby here," indicating the young
fellow in the other racing craft who had drawn his boat up close to them
and was looking on with interest. "We will get you something to steady
your nerves a bit. We had a pretty narrow squeak that time, and it's no
wonder it upset you a little."

He was supposedly addressing all the girls, but his eyes were only for
Betty. As for her, she suddenly had a startlingly clear mental picture of
what her father would think were some one to tell him that his daughter
and her chums had been seen at the "Point" with Percy Falconer and a
friend of his.

In days gone by Percy had been very insipid, his mind entirely on his
clothes; now he had become a sport, and the report was that he caroused
around not a little.

Betty turned to the youth with a decided little shake of her head, though
her eyes were smiling.

"I think we shall have to go right back," she said. "It looks as though it
were going to rain. Thank you just as much," and she began to ease her
motor boat gently away from the other craft.

"Oh, I say," Percy cried, disappointedly and a little angrily, for out of
the corner of his eye he could see that his friend was laughing at him,
"we would only keep you for a moment or two. You needn't be afraid of us.
We won't bite, you know."

"We don't know you well enough to be sure even of that," said Mollie,
coming suddenly and flippantly into the conversation.

But Percy took not the slightest notice of her and, as Betty was slowly
but surely widening the distance between the <i>Gem</i> and his boat, he
leaned forward eagerly.

"Betty, let me see you some time. How about to-morrow night?"

And because Betty was always kind to every one and was sorry for Mollie's
flippant speech, she said, quite unexpectedly, even to herself, "All
right."

Then she turned the <i>Gem</i> around and started for home, conscious that
her chums were gazing at her in speechless amazement.

"Betty!" cried Grace, horrified. "You are never going to let Percy
Falconer come to see you, are you?"

But Betty turned on her irritably. She was tired and nervous and angry at
herself for having anything to do with that conceited dude, Percy
Falconer.

"You heard me say he could come, didn't you?" she said in response to
Grace's incredulous question, Amy's wide-eyed stare, and Mollie's grin.
"And if you are going to ask me why I said so," she added desperately,
"I'm not going to tell you. And if anybody speaks to me before I get back
to the dock, I'll--wreck 'em, that's all."

The girls exchanged glances and wisely decided to change the subject, for
the present at least. For the time they had plenty to do anyway, just
watching out that somebody else did not run into them!

By the time they reached comparatively clear water they were all tired and
they were glad for once when the <i>Gem</i> scraped against the home dock
and the "cruise" was over.

"Well," said Mollie as they climbed on to the dock, "we surely did have
some excitement, but we didn't get what we started out for after all."

"What's that?" asked Grace, as she tied the ribbon round her candy box and
adjusted her hat at a more becoming angle.

"Ice-cream and a drink of ice water," said Mollie ruefully. "I've just
remembered that I am dying of thirst."

"Come on around to my house," Betty invited. Her wrist was lame from
gripping the wheel so hard and she felt it gingerly. "Mother said she
would make a big pitcher of lemonade for us and leave it in the
refrigerator."

"Whew," whistled Mollie, taking Betty's arm and hurrying her forward. "By
any chance did you girls hear what I heard? <i>Me</i> for <i>it</i>, Betty
Nelson."

The girls talked little on their way to Betty's house, but they thought a
good deal. They were tired and disgruntled, and it seemed to them in their
pessimistic mood that everything they had tried to do that day had gone
wrong. And the climax of it all was their meeting--if it could be called a
meeting--with Percy Falconer. Worst of all, Betty was going to allow him
to call!

With something of this in her mind, Mollie glanced sideways at her chum
and, curiosity getting the better of her discretion, ventured to remark
upon it.

"I wonder what Allen will say," she said, "when he learns about Percy."

It was an unfortunate remark, as Betty very soon showed by turning upon
her chum angrily.

"I don't know that Allen has a right to say anything at all about what I
do," she said. "And as I don't intend ever to see Percy Falconer after
to-morrow, I think we had better forget about him. But there," she added,
bringing herself up short and giving Mollie's hand a little conciliatory
squeeze, "I didn't mean to be cross. I'm just kind of mad about the whole
thing--and tired, and hot--"

"I know," said Mollie generously. "I guess we all are--tired and hot, I
mean. We will feel better after we have had something cold to drink."

Betty's mother had left not only the lemonade but some sandwiches of
chopped nuts and cream cheese. Jubilantly the girls carried these
delicacies out on the front porch and proceeded to devour them without
further delay.

As they ate and drank, their ill-humor vanished and they began to feel
once more like their cheerful, optimistic selves. They even began to laugh
a little about the close shave they had had with Percy and his friend.

"It was mighty clever work of yours, Betty, swerving around like that,"
Mollie said reminiscently, as she patted the Little Captain's hand
approvingly. "I'm sure I would have been so scared I'd have gone right
ahead and then there would have been a nasty smash."

"I do hope the folks don't hear about it," worried Grace. "It would only
make them nervous and they might even refuse to let us go out in the
<i>Gem</i> any more."

"I don't see how the folks are going to know anything about it," said Amy
calmly.

"Unless our dear friend Percy blabs it all over town," added Grace.

"I think we ought to tell the folks," Betty spoke up suddenly. "I know
they would rather hear about it from us than from any one else. Hello,"
she broke off, as her eye lighted on a newspaper lying on the table, "this
looks like the evening edition. Maybe it has some news of Allen's
division."

"My, just listen to her," yawned Grace. "Allen's division, indeed. As
though he were the only one we were interested in--"

But her words were cut short by a startled exclamation from Betty.

"Oh, girls, look here!" she cried. "Look at these names. Oh, I hope it
isn't true! I hope it isn't!"




Chapter VII

Bad Tidings Confirmed



"I wish I knew what you were talking about," said Mollie, pausing with a
sandwich half-way to her mouth, while Amy and Grace regarded the Little
Captain with astonishment. "What names? Where?"

But Betty was paying no attention to them. She was reading hastily the
column that had caught her startled attention.

"Listen to this," she said, reading out loud. "Among those who were killed
in the last great Allied offensive are the names of these brave soldiers.
James Browning of Columbus, Ohio--No, that isn't what I mean--Look, here
they are--James Dempsey and Arnold Dempsey, Junior. Girls, do you suppose
--" and she looked at them with widening eyes.

"Arnold Dempsey, Arnold Dempsey," repeated Mollie, searching in her
memory, but Amy interrupted excitedly.

"That was Professor Dempsey's name, wasn't it?" she asked. "Oh, Betty, do
you suppose it could be his son?"

"Why, of course it is his son--how could it be any one else?" cried Grace,
the excitement beginning to communicate itself to her. "Arnold Dempsey,
Junior--and the professor said his sons were over there."

"Didn't it say something about James Dempey, too, Betty?" asked Mollie,
fairly snatching the paper from her chum. "Yes, here it is. Do you suppose
that can be his other son?"

Betty shook her head soberly.

"I don't know," she said. "Of course he didn't tell us the name of his
other son, but it might easily be James. Oh, I hope it isn't so!" she
added, her heart aching for the lonely old man whose one big interest in
life was his boys. "I do hope there has been some mistake."

"I guess we all do," said Amy gently, adding with a sigh: "But I'm afraid
there isn't very much hope of it. The Government is usually right when it
comes to things like that."

"Not always," Mollie retorted quickly. "Look at the time they reported
that Alien was among the missing and he wasn't at all. That is the only
mistake we happen to know about, but I fancy there are plenty of others."

At mention of that dreadful time when she had read Alien's name in the
long list of the missing, Betty experienced again something of the emotion
she had felt at that time.

She saw again in imagination the dark room where she had gone to be by
herself, she heard the thunder of the surf on the rocks outside and the
rumble of the thunder overhead. She saw once more the vision of Alien as
she had seen it then. Allen stretched out cold and dead perhaps on some
shell-ridden battlefield or perhaps, more terrible still, a prisoner in
the hands of the Hun, suffering unspeakable torture--

"But this is not as bad as though the boys were missing," she said
suddenly, speaking her thought aloud. "At least the professor will know
that his sons are dead."

The girls started and looked at Betty queerly.

"I was thinking of Allen," she explained in response to their rather
startled glances, "and the time when we thought he was missing. If this
thing is true about Professor Dempsey's sons I think I shall be able to
sympathize with him, almost better than any of you."

"I guess you will, honey," said Mollie soberly, putting an arm about her
chum. "It was a terrible time for us all--there at Bluff Point. But it was
almost worth the suffering when we found out that Allen was alive and well
and never had been missing at all Do you remember how happy we all were
then?"

"Happy," Betty repeated, shaking off her depression and smiling at the
memory. "I'll say we were the happiest girls on earth--especially after we
recovered the twins. But what," she said, coming back to the present
subject, "are we going to do about Professor Dempsey? We ought to do
something, you know."

"I suppose we ought," said Grace, a little vaguely, "but I'm sure I don't
know just what."

"I think," suggested Amy practically, "that the best thing would be to try
to find out first of all whether these poor boys who were killed are
really Professor Dempsey's sons or not."

"Humph, that sounds all right," observed Mollie. "But has any one here any
suggestion as to just how we will go about it? I'm sure I don't know any
one who is acquainted with Professor Dempsey--or his family either."

"I've got it," said Betty, leaning forward eagerly. "It may not be much of
an idea, but then again it may."

"Speak up, speak up, what's on your mind?" urged Mollie slangily.

"Well," said Betty, "there is Mr. Haig, principal of Deepdale High. He
knows pretty nearly every one at the university where Professor Dempsey
used to teach and he is more than likely to know whether the professor has
any sons and what their names are."

"Yes, that is all right as far as it goes," broke in Mollie impatiently.

"We all know Mr. Haig--" Amy began, but this time it was Grace who
interrupted.

"Yes, we all know him," she said. "But I'd like to know if there is any
one of us--except Betty perhaps--who would have the nerve to go to him and
ask him a question like that--"

"Say, who's telling this story I'd like to know," broke in Betty
impatiently. "I'm not asking any one to go to Mr. Haig with that question
or any other--although I would be perfectly willing to brave the lion in
his den if there were no other way. My plan is this. Dad knows Mr. Haig,
you know--went to school with him--old college chums and all that. I'm
sure that if we asked him real pretty he would go to Mr. Haig and find out
about Professor Dempsey for us."

"Then suppose we find out that Professor Dempsey hasn't any sons by the
name of James and Arnold?" suggested Grace.

"Then we shall be mighty glad we took the trouble to find out and set our
minds at rest," answered Betty soberly.

"And if we find out that they are really his sons, what then?" queried
Grace, and this time Betty looked puzzled and Mollie and Amy completely
beyond their depth.

"Why then," said Betty hesitatingly, "I'm sure I don't just know what we
ought to do. But don't you think," she added, brightening, "that it might
be a good idea to wait until we have found out definite facts before we
try to solve any more problems?"

Rather reluctantly the girls agreed and, after making Betty promise that
she would let them know the very first minute she found out the names of
Arnold Dempsey's sons, they said good-bye and started for home.

Of course Betty had already told her father and mother about Professor
Dempsey and the part he had played in actually saving their lives; so when
she told them that night of what she had read in the paper and begged her
father to help her find out whether the dead soldiers were really Arnold
Dempsey's sons or not, he readily consented to do what he could.

"I'll drop in and see Haig to-morrow," he promised. "I have often heard
him speak of Professor Dempsey as being one of the best professors of
zoölogy up at the university and I am sure I will be able to find out what
you want to know. I hope you have been mistaken in your conclusions, for
it would be a horrible blow to a man to lose both his grown sons at once
and like that. Now run off to bed and tomorrow I may have some news for
you."

With this Betty was forced to be content. She went to bed of course, there
was nothing else to do, but she tossed restlessly all night and what sleep
she got was checkered with horrid dreams and she woke up in the morning
feeling as though she had not been to sleep at all.

The next day was a long one to live through, even though the girls did
keep calling her up at frequent intervals to see if she had any news for
them yet. She became so tired of hearing the telephone bell ring at last
that she stuffed a handkerchief between the bell and the clapper and sat
down to read a novel and while away the time as best she could till her
father came home.

Luckily for her--and him too, perhaps--Mr. Nelson did get home early, and
he was no sooner inside the door than Betty grabbed him by the arm, led
him over to a divan in the corner of the living room, and let loose upon
him a flood of questions.

"Did you see him? What did he say? Why didn't you let me know sooner?"

These and various other queries were hurled at Mr. Nelson so fast that it
is no wonder the poor gentleman appeared slightly bewildered. But knowing
his impetuous young daughter of old, he merely pinched her cheek fondly
and waited for her to give him a chance to speak.

"If you will wait just a moment I will try to tell you about it," he said
at last, mildly.

"There's only one thing I really want to know, Dad," said Betty soberly.
"And that is the name of Professor Dempsey's sons."

Her father shook his head slowly, regretfully.

"I am afraid it is as you have feared, dear," he said. "Professor Dempsey
has two sons--or rather, had--and their names were James and Arnold."

"Oh, Daddy!" Betty was quiet for a minute, letting the full consciousness
of what her father had said sink into her heart. Then her lips trembled
and her eyes filled with tears. "I--I was pretty sure it was true. But,
oh, I was hoping so hard that it wouldn't be!"




Chapter VIII

Premonitions



Betty kept her promise and called up the girls to tell them the news. Like
the Little Captain, they had felt almost sure of the identity of the two
Dempsey boys who had been killed in France, yet the confirmation of their
fears came as a distinct shock.

They waited for a couple of days, undecided what to do, if indeed it was
their place to do anything at all. Vaguely they felt the need of
comforting the queer little professor in his hour of greatest trouble, and
yet they were at a loss to know just how to go about it.

Meanwhile, the occupations that had ordinarily filled their days to
overflowing with fun, seemed dull and uninteresting and they found their
thoughts reverting again and again to the bereaved father in his lonely
little cabin in the woods.

Percy Falconer had called at Betty's house the day after the incident on
the river as had been arranged, and Betty had conceived the plan of having
all her chums there to meet him.

Her hope was that the gay Percy, seeing four, where he had expected only
one, would be overwhelmed with numbers and would flee the premises early--
to return no more.

Her faith in her plan was more than justified. Percy had always been a
little afraid of the Outdoor Girls--Betty in particular--but it is
probable that if he had been able to meet them one at a time, he might
have come off victorious. As it was, he was routed, completely and
ignominiously, leaving the girls to laugh at his discomfiture.

"There, I guess that is the end of <i>that</i> pest," Mollie had said when
she had recovered a little from her mirth. "I imagine we won't see him
around these parts again."

"I hope not," Betty had answered with a satisfied little yawn. "Wasn't he
too funny in that checked suit and awful green necktie? Poor old Percy! I
suppose he can't help it. He probably just grew that way."

She had been comparing him all evening with her splendid, upstanding
Allen, and poor Percy had certainly not gained by the comparison.

The amusing incident served to divert their minds somewhat from the
thought of Professor Dempsey, but the picture of him haunted their minds
so continually day and night that the Outdoor Girls finally decided that
something must be done about it.

"I can't stand it any longer," Betty confided to them one morning when
they stood on Mollie's porch discussing what course of action it would be
best to take. "I have a queer feeling that the poor professor is in
desperate need of friends, and I don't believe I'll be able to sleep
another night until I find out something definite about him."

"Won't he think we are sort of 'butting in'?" asked Grace, hesitating a
little. "He might think we came just out of curiosity."

"I don't think he would," said Mollie. "You know he invited us to come
back some time when we could stay long enough for him to tell us something
about those bugs and butterflies and things he sticks pins into--"

"That's the idea!" exclaimed Betty quickly. "We won't have to tell him we
know anything about his trouble. If he tells us--why, all right, but if he
doesn't, of course we won't try to force a confidence. Anyway," she
finished soberly, "we'll have the satisfaction of knowing we have done our
best for him whether it really helps him any or not."

"And we owe him a very great deal," spoke tip Amy softly. "He really saved
our lives, you know."

So it was settled, and while the other three girls ran home to put on
coats and hats and get ready for the drive, Mollie ran around to the
garage and brought her big car to the front of the house.

She waved good-bye to her mother, who was trying rather wildly to keep
Dodo and Paul from running under the wheels of the car and getting killed,
and purred off down the street in the direction of Betty's house.

When she arrived there she was a little surprised to see that Betty was
backing her fast little roadster down the drive.

To Betty the little car was almost alive, and she talked to it as she
would have to some loved horse or dog. She scrubbed it and scoured it and
shined it so that it always looked like a brand new car.

"Hey, look out!" cried Mollie, for Betty, not noticing her and being a
little worried about the sound of the engine, had backed the small car
down the drive and almost into Mollie's big one. "What kind of driving do
you call that? Do you want to buy me a new mudguard?"

"Oh, pardon me," said Betty, laughing back at her. "You were so small and
insignificant, I came near not seeing you."

"Well, you would have <i>felt</i> me in another minute," grumbled Mollie,
as she shut off the engine and got out of the car. "What's the idea of
your little peanut, anyway? Thought you were going to ride in a regular
car."

"That's why I chose mine," Betty laughed back impishly, still intent on
the sound of the engine.

It was part of their fun to be always throwing insults at each other's car
but the thrusts were invariably good-natured.

Only once had there threatened to be any trouble between the chums on
account of rivalry over the cars. That had been when Mollie had taken
Betty's "dare" to a race and Betty's little roadster had won the day,
racing like a streak of light along the country road and leaving Mollie's
high-powered but more clumsy car far behind.

But Mollie had taken her defeat like the little sport she was--even though
it must be admitted she had been considerably disappointed and taken aback
by her failure--and in her ever since there had been a great respect for
Betty's car.

But now she eyed with impatience the bent figure of the Little Captain as
she still leaned over the wheel, her ear tuned to the purr of the engine.

"For goodness' sake, what's the matter with you?" she cried. "I thought
you were the one who was in a hurry to be off and now look at you--sitting
there like--"

"Engine is missing," Betty informed her briskly. "Guess I had better have
a look--"

"If you start fussing with bolts and screws now, you can count me out,"
said Mollie, resolutely climbing back into her car. "It is ten o'clock
already, and we won't be home before night if we don't hurry."

"Oh, all right," laughed Betty. "But if the car gives out before we get
back don't blame me, that's all."

"It would give me the greatest of pleasure," said Mollie with a diabolical
chuckle as her machine moved off down the street, "to have everyone in
Deepdale see me towing your poor little flivver through the town."

"Huh," sang back Betty scornfully as the roadster responded eagerly to her
touch, "they will have a great deal better chance of seeing me in the lead
with your great big jumbo tottering feebly at the end of a rope."

They picked up Amy and Grace on the way and were soon flying swiftly down
the road in the direction of Professor Dempsey's tree-surrounded home.

They were in rather good spirits at first, for now that they were really
on the way to doing something, though they were not quite sure what, they
felt relieved and almost gay.

But as the distance shortened between them and their destination, a
strange depression that they could neither explain nor brush away settled
down over them.

Once, Grace, who sat beside the Little Captain in the roadster, sighed
rather dolefully and Betty looked at her out of the corner of her eye.

"Do you feel that way too, Grade?" the latter asked.

"What way?" asked Grace uncertainly. "That sigh, do you mean?"

"Yes," nodded Betty. "You sounded rather mournful and that is exactly the
way I feel. What's the matter with us, anyway? Where are our spirits?"

"I suppose we couldn't expect to feel joyful," said Grace after a little
pause. "We aren't going, so far as I can see, on a very happy errand, you
know."

"But I don't think it is that alone," said Betty, with a shake of her
head. "I feel as if we were going to see something perfectly dreadful--"

"Betty," Grace looked at her in sudden alarm, her eyes wide, "you don't
suppose that the professor could have done anything--anything rash, do
you?"

"You mean--" said Betty, hesitating before the ugly word. "Oh, Grace, you
don't mean--suicide, do you?"

Grace nodded and tried hard not to look as frightened as she felt.

"No, I--I don't think so," said Betty, grasping the wheel with hands that
somehow seemed suddenly weak. "If I thought anything like that had
happened I wouldn't have the courage to go on."

"Well, I don't believe I have--the courage, I mean," said Grace,
irresolutely. "Don't you think we had better go back, Betty? It's so
lonesome here and--and--everything--"

Her voice was rising to something like a wail, and Betty, striving to
throttle her own misgivings, spoke in a voice that was intended to be
reassuring.

"We wouldn't think very much of ourselves if we turned back now," she
said. "And probably we are worrying a great deal about nothing. He didn't
seem like the kind of man who would do a thing like that."

Grace said no more about turning back, and they were silent for the rest
of the way. But instead of lightening, the cloud of depression became
deeper and more foreboding until even the stout Little Captain began,
almost to wish that they had not come.




Chapter IX

A Visitor



When they came to the scene of what was so nearly a terrible accident a
week or so before they found that the big tree which had extended clear
across the road was gone and that the underbrush also had been cleared
away.

They stopped the cars a little the other side of the path that led into
the woods and slowly stepped down into the road.

When they caught sight of each other's faces they began to laugh shakily.

"We certainly look as if we were going on a ghost hunt," Mollie said. At
this Grace uttered a little cry of protest. The thought had struck too
near her own disquieting thoughts to be comfortable.

"For goodness' sake, somebody say something cheerful," she begged. "I've
got to get up my courage some way."

"Well, I haven't any to lend you," grumbled Mollie, as she linked her arm
in Betty's and the two went along toward the path. "I don't like this job
a little bit."

"Don't you think," suggested Amy, holding back a little, "that somebody
ought to stay here and take care of the cars?"

"No, you don't!" said Mollie, catching her by the hand and pulling her
along after them. "If one of us goes we are all going."

"Oh, come along," urged Betty, eager to get the thing over with. "I think
we are all acting like a lot of geese. It might help some if we tried to
remember that we are Outdoor Girls."

This challenge did a great deal toward bolstering up the girls' courage
and they hurried along the path more confidently.

Their pace slowed a bit, however, when they reached the cleared space
where the little cottage stood and they paused for a moment in the shelter
of the trees to discuss what to do next.

"Do you think we had all better go?" asked Grace nervously. "Perhaps the
four of us would frighten him--"

"No, we will all go together," said Betty decidedly. "There is nothing to
be gained by standing here talking about it. Come on, girls."

She started across the cleared space and the girls followed slowly. The
little cottage looked deserted and forlorn and the dreary aspect of it
served to increase the girls' uneasy sense of disaster.

Betty knocked gently on the door which had, upon that other occasion not
so very long ago, been hospitably opened to them. But, though they waited
breathlessly for a response, none came--the house was as silent as a tomb.

"Do it again, Betty. He might be asleep or something." suggested Mollie,
with a glance over her shoulder at the quiet woodland. "Knock harder this
time."

Betty obeyed, but with no better success than the first time. Everything
was as silent as before.

"Isn't there a bell, I wonder?" suggested Amy, wishing ardently that they
were back on the road once more. "Perhaps your knock isn't loud enough for
him to hear."

"We might tap on the window," suggested Grace. "If I use my ring on the
window pane he surely ought to hear that."

She started to suit her action to the words when an exclamation from Betty
made her pause. The latter had tried the door and found to her surprise
that it gave to her touch.

"The door is unlocked," she said. "I don't believe the professor is in
here at all and if he has gone into the woods to hunt his butterflies and
beetles I am sure he wouldn't mind our going inside. What do you think?"

She was about to push the door open, but Grace detained her with a nervous
hand on her arm.

"Oh, I don't think we had better go in, Betty!" she cried. "You know what
we were speaking of in the car. Suppose we should find that he has--that
he has--"

"That he has what?" asked Amy, her eyes wide. "For goodness' sake, what do
you mean, Grace?"

Betty tried to stop her, but Grace hurried on heedlessly.

"He may have committed suicide," she cried, adding, in response to
Mollie's and Amy's cry of horror: "You know he must have been desperate
enough to do anything, poor old man, out here all alone."

At the conviction in Grace's tone, Betty felt her own nerve slipping. She
did not want to go into that silent house any more than the other girls
did. Every instinct in her commanded that she run from the place to the
commonplace safety of the road. She was afraid of what she might find on
the other side of that unlocked door. And yet--

"I'm going in," she cried, and, suiting the action to the word, pushed the
door quickly open and stepped over the threshold.

Emboldened by her example, the other girls followed and stopped short with
a cry of dismay. They had not found what they feared--but something almost
as bad.

The room, which had been so neat and orderly when they had last seen it,
was now the scene of such utter confusion as one might only hope to see
depicted in a cubist's nightmare.

The animal skins which had adorned the walls had been torn down and lay in
a tattered heap upon the floor. The shelves upon which had rested the
professor's botanical specimens had been swept clean and their contents
also were scattered about the floor.

The bench upon which the girls had sat and partaken of the queer little
man's hospitality was overturned and the one chair in the room was upside
down on top of it. The whole room looked as though a cyclone--or a maniac
--had been at work.

The girls stared for a minute and then drew closer together as if seeking
protection from some unseen menace. They had some vague conception of what
had taken place here in this lonely little cottage. The elderly and
already nervous professor, reading the tragedy of his sons' death, all
alone perhaps, with no one to comfort or restrain him, had lost his mind,
temporarily at least, and had found an outlet in ruthlessly destroying
everything which came within reach of his hand.

And if this were so, might he not even now be hiding about somewhere,
watching them, perhaps?

This thought seemed to strike the girls at the same time, for after
peering for a second about the room, they turned and made a concerted dash
for the door.

Once outside the room, in the reassuring sunshine, they turned and looked
at each other sheepishly. Then Betty wheeled about and started for the
door again.

"Betty, you are never going back into that place again?" cried Amy wildly,
holding to her skirt. "I won't let you! Do you hear me? Come back here!"

But Betty had no intention of coming back. She turned and faced the girls
calmly, though inwardly she was trembling.

"Of course I am going back," she said. "Professor Dempsey may be in one of
the other rooms and he may be sick. If nobody will go with me, I'm going
in alone."

Of course the three girls could not let her go in alone, so they trailed
back at her heels into the house, being very careful, however, to leave
the door wide open behind them, in case a hasty retreat became necessary.

Cautiously Betty opened the door at the other end of the room and stepped
into what had evidently been a sort of rough kitchen. Now it was nothing
but a nightmare like the other room, and she shuddered as she looked about
at the desolate confusion.

There was a door at the farther end of this room, and after some
hesitation and an inward struggle Betty crossed hastily to it and flung it
wide open.

What she half expected and feared to find there nobody but Betty herself
ever knew, but whatever it was, she gave a great sigh of relief at not
finding it there. The room was upset, though not quite as badly as the
other two, but there was no sign of human occupancy anywhere.

She turned to the girls who had come up behind her and were eagerly and
half shudderingly peering over her shoulder.

"There's nothing here," she announced, the relief she felt showing in her
voice, "and as there doesn't seem to be any other room in the place, I
suppose we might as well go back."

Echoing her suggestion heartily, me girls started to retrace their steps
when a slight sound in the other room made them stop short in a panic.

"What was that?" Amy questioned, but Mollie held up her hand impatiently.

There came the sound of some one stumbling over something. This was
followed by a muttered exclamation.

While the girls looked about them wildly for a means of escape Mollie
began to laugh hysterically.

"We have a visitor," she announced in a strangled voice. "And he is
between us and the only door in the place. Come on, girls, let's see who
it is."

They stepped out into the cluttered living room and came face to face with
a young man who seemed more startled at seeing them than they had been at
sight of him.

"Well, I'll be jiggered!" he exclaimed, and at sound of the commonplace
phrase the girls could have hugged the speaker in relief. Also they felt a
rather hysterical desire to laugh long and foolishly.

As it was, the stranger stood staring at the girls and the girls at him so
long that the funny side of the situation struck Betty and she really did
begin to laugh.

"We haven't the slightest idea who you are," she told the astonished young
man. "But I am sure of one thing, and that is that we were never so glad
to see any one in all our lives as we are to see you."




Chapter X

Hurrah for Allen



The young man stared for a moment longer. Then the humor of the situation
seemed to strike him too, and he smiled pleasantly.

"It surely is a pleasure to be as welcome as all that," he said
pleasantly, and the girls noticed that he was a well set up young fellow
and that he wore his uniform easily, as if he had been used to wearing it
for a long, long time. "I am Wesley Travers," he went on. "I live in a
cottage down the road and I came over this way to see if the old professor
had come back yet. I saw the door open--came in--and found you."

He smiled again pleasantly and looked as though he considered that he had
fallen into rather good luck. But at his mention of the professor Betty
had sobered instantly.

"Oh, then you know something about Professor Dempsey?" she questioned
eagerly.

"Please tell us what happened to him," added Amy breathlessly.

"Did he do this?" asked Mollie, with a comprehensive sweep of her hand
about the cluttered room.

"I'm afraid he did," answered the young fellow, sobering instantly. "You
see, I just returned from overseas about a week ago and a couple of days
later my dad read in the paper about the death of this queer old man's two
sons. The pater had always been interested in the lonely old boy, so he
sent me over to see if I could do anything for him. I found the place like
this and--the bird had flown. Went dopy I suppose about the bad news and
tore things up a bit."

Though the boy's words were slangy, there was real sympathy in his tone
and the girls liked him the better for it.

"And you haven't heard anything from him since?" asked Betty softly.

"Not a word or a sign," answered the boy, with a shake of his head. "Just
clean cleared out, that's all. Pretty hard luck, I call it. Just at the
end of things too--when he had a right to expect the fellows home. Pretty
tough luck. I wish I could find the poor old duffer and do something for
him."

The girls heartily echoed the wish. Before leaving the place for good,
they looked about the rooms once more for some sign or message that might
give them a clue to the whereabouts of the professor. They found nothing,
however, and finally were forced to give up the search.

As the young people stepped outside once more and closed the door after
them upon the desolate house a great wave of pity swept over Betty.
Somehow it did not seem right to go off like this as though they were
abandoning the old man to his fate. Yet what could they do more than they
had done?

"Girls," she said, a little quiver in her voice, "I would give almost
everything I own to find the poor old professor and help him back to
happiness. If I only could," she added after a pause.  "Well," said Wesley
Travers, as he looked admiringly at Betty's flushed, sympathetic little
face, "I imagine if any one could find him and bring him happiness, you
would be that one."

The young soldier accompanied them back to the road. After thanking him
for the information he had given them, the girls climbed into their cars
and headed toward home, leaving Wesley Travers still standing in the road
and looking after them thoughtfully.

"A mighty nice bunch of girls," thought the latter. "Especially the little
brown-haired one. They seemed rather interested in that dotty old
professor too. Lucky fellow to have four girls like that interested in
him!" After this remark he started off toward home.

Luckily for the girls, the next few days were so crowded with preparations
for the trip to Wild Rose Lodge that they had not much time to dwell on
the poor old professor and his misfortunes.

Only at night would they sometimes dream queer dreams in which wild-eyed
men went around smashing everything in sight and a little cottage stood
lonely and desolate and ghostlike amid a silent forest of trees.

After a night like this the girls were always glad to awake and find the
sunshine streaming cheerfully in their windows. And they would throw
themselves with more than usual energy into the activities of the day. Yet
try as they would, they could never quite blot the tragedy from their
minds.

On the afternoon of the day before they were to start for Moonlight Falls,
the girls were gathered in Betty's garage at the back of the house, where
the Little Captain was giving her car one last overhauling to make sure
that it was in perfect condition for the trip. Mollie suddenly espied the
postman coming down the street.

Now the postman was a very popular man with the girls, for the reason that
he brought almost daily some message from the boys on the other side. He
sympathized with the chums so fully in their desire for letters with the
red triangle in one corner that he actually confessed to a guilty feeling
when he had no missive of the sort for them.

So now, as Mollie ran toward him with outstretched hand, he held up to her
delighted gaze not only one letter, but four.

"One for each of you," he said beamingly, as Mollie reached him. "I
thought that probably I would find all four of you at one place, so I kept
the letters together."

"Oh, thanks, it is awfully good of you," said Mollie absent-mindedly, as
she took the welcome letters and hurried with them back to the garage.
"One for each of us, just think of that!" she cried to the questioning
girls. "It looks as if the boys had all written at the same time. Put down
your duster, Betty, for goodness' sake, and read what Alien has to say.
Maybe," she added hopefully, as she ripped her envelope open, "they will
tell us something definite about coming home."

So down the girls sat in the midst of dust cloths and more or less dirt to
find what the boys had written. For a moment only the crackling of paper
broke the silence. Then Grace gave a little joyful cry.

"Will says he is almost sure to be home soon--"

"And he has been made a sergeant," Amy interrupted, or rather added, her
eyes shining with pride. "Just think of that--Will, a sergeant!"

"I was just going to tell them that if you had waited a minute," said
Grace, rather crossly. There was quite a little jealousy between Grace and
Amy over Will. Grace had declared more than once that whereas she had
known her brother all her life, Amy had only known him for a couple of
years--or--or more. Grace loved her brother devotedly and once in a while
she resented Amy's place in his affections.

So now to change the subject and avert a possible quarrel, Mollie jumped
into the breach.

"Listen to this," she said. "Roy and Frank have been made corporals and
Allen--oh, look at Betty blush!" She looked gleefully across at the Little
Captain and Amy and Grace followed her glance.

Betty was not blushing, but she felt as uncomfortable as though she had
been.

"Tell us what Allen says," Mollie dared her wickedly. "Come on, honey--
dare you to."

"You can go on daring all you like," said Betty defiantly. This time she
was blushing--from the fact that she knew she could not, or would not,
tell the girls what Allen had said in his letter. Not for anything in this
world!

"I don't mean what you mean," said Mollie, enjoying her confusion
immensely, while Grace and Amy looked on laughingly. "I just thought that
maybe you would like to be the one to tell us about his promotion."

"His promotion!" cried Amy and Grace together, and Betty looked quite as
bewildered as any of them.

"Mollie, for goodness' sake tell us what you mean," she demanded.

"But didn't he tell you about it, Betty?" Mollie insisted.

"Wait a minute," said the Little Captain as she hastily scanned the pages
of her long letter. Then, down near the end of the last page she found it,
just a little paragraph, put in as though it had been an afterthought.
"Why," cried Betty, her eyes beginning to shine with excitement, "girls,
listen to this. Allen has been promoted. He's an officer now--a
lieutenant! Think of it--leather leggings and all!"

It was too much for the girls. They laughed and cried and hugged each
other and tried to imagine Allen in his new uniform to their hearts'
content, for the young new-made officer was a favorite with them all.

"Goodness," said Amy happily, "I suppose when he gets home he will be
altogether too high-toned to notice common folk like us."

"Oh, I don't know," said Grace happily, adding with a sly little glance at
Betty, "I imagine he will make an exception of one of us at least."

"I wonder," drawled Mollie as she picked up her unfinished letter, "which
one of us you can mean."




Chapter XI

The Hold-Up



The girls were glad that the letters had come from the boys just as they
had, for it helped them to bridge over the tediously long wait till the
next morning.

They read the missives with the little red triangles in the left hand
corner over and over again and--whisper it!--at least two of them slept
with the precious letters under their pillows.

And then--the morning was upon them. It was a beautiful morning too, and
as the girls dressed hurriedly they were glad that they had arranged to
start early. In that way they could take their time and enjoy to the full
the glorious ride to Moonlight Falls. It was only fifty-five miles, but by
driving slowly they could make it seem like twice that.

It was barely half past nine when Betty, having finished breakfast and put
the last finishing touches to her new white hat, ran around to the garage
to get the car out.

Ten minutes later she had drawn up in front of Mollie's house, her ears
still ringing with the hundred and one instructions of her anxious mother,
and was tooting the horn of her little car furiously.

The summons had the desired effect. Mollie came running from the house,
straightening her hat with one hand and lugging a valise in the other
while the twins trailed at her skirts.

"For goodness' sake, let go of me, Paul. Dodo, if you touch that bag
again, I'll spank you. Mother," she wailed, looking back pleadingly over
her shoulder, "won't you please make these little pests go into the
house?"

Whereupon Mrs. Billette suddenly appeared at the door, smiled at Betty,
grabbed Paul with one hand, Dodo with the other, while the twins roared a
protest.

Released, Mollie dropped her bag, sped round to the garage, and in a
moment more was backing the big car round to the road.

The girls had decided to about live in their khaki tramping suits on this
trip, merely packing in a good dress or two to wear on dress-up occasions.
In this way they had to take less luggage and could have more space to
"spread out" as Mollie said.

"Put your grip in here, Betty," Mollie suggested, as she slung her own
grip into the tonneau of the big machine. "There is more room, and Mrs.
Irving said she wouldn't mind in the least being entirely surrounded by
suitcases."

Betty laughed, did as she was bid, and a moment later they were off,
speeding down the road to Grace's house where they were to pick up the
other two girls and Mrs. Irving.

They found the three waiting for them, and it took scarcely any time at
all to add the extra grips to the growing pile in the tonneau of Mollie's
car. Amid great fun, Mrs. Irving, who was rosy-cheeked and matronly and as
jolly as the girls, was wedged into the remaining space, Amy climbed to
the front seat beside Mollie and Grace took her seat with Betty.

They were off! The sting of the wind was in their faces, and the sun beat
warmly down upon them as they rolled along, passing familiar houses, and
sometimes familiar people, to whom they waved, and so on and on till they
left the town behind them and started out on the open road.

"My, this is something like," commented Grace, stretching her feet out
before her for all the world like a lazy, comfortable cat. "I feel awfully
sorry for all the poor people who haven't cars to ride in to-day and Wild
Rose Lodges to visit. By the way, why is it called Wild Rose Lodge,
Betty?"

"Because they say there are lots of wild roses around it, of course,"
Betty responded, her hands resting easily on the wheel, her eyes bright
with the joy of the moment. Grace, stealing a sideways glance at her,
could not help thinking that Betty looked not unlike a wild rose herself.

"You look awfully pretty, honey," she said then, for Grace was always
generous with praise where her friends were concerned. "I would give the
world to have a color like yours."

"Goodness," remarked Betty, turning to look at her chum, her face a little
brighter pink because of the honest compliment, "you have a lovely color--
as you very well know. Mine is too red sometimes."

"Nobody thinks that but you," said Grace, squeezing Betty's hand
affectionately while she dived down in her pocket for some candy. "The
only time I have noticed you get very red," she added, "is when some one
happens to mention a certain young gentleman by the name of Lieutenant
Allen Washburn."

Betty could feel that her face was burning, but she did not care. She was
awfully proud of Allen and desperately fond of him and for the moment she
did not care if the whole world knew about it.

"Isn't it wonderful, Grade?" she cried, her heart pounding joyously.
"About Allen being an officer, I mean. I have to pinch myself several
times a minute to make myself realize that it is really true."

"It surely is great," Grace answered slowly, adding after a moment, while
a faraway expression crept into her eyes, "I don't blame you for being
crazy about him, honey. I could almost be foolish myself. Oh, don't
worry," she went on quickly as Betty turned amazed and rather startled
eyes upon her. "I'm no fonder of Allen than I am of any of the other boys.
I just said that I didn't blame you, that's all."

Betty turned her eyes to the road once more, but in her heart she was
troubled. There had been a note in Grace's voice that she had never heard
before. Could it be possible that she really cared for Allen? But she
pushed the thought from her mind resolutely. If such a thing could have
been possible, she certainly would have discovered it before this. The
mere thought was nonsense of course. And yet she was troubled.

"Have some candy," Grace invited, breaking in upon her thoughts. "You
needn't stick up your nose at it to-day for I bought this fresh from the
store this morning."

"Who said I was going to stick up my nose?" said Betty, helping herself to
a chocolate that looked as if it might contain a nut and thankful for the
break in her not-too-pleasant reflections. "If you will think back just a
little, I think you will admit that I have been guilty very seldom of
sticking up my nose at anything--"

"Except Percy Falconer," finished Grace drolly, and they both laughed
merrily.

"Poor Percy!" said Betty, chewing her candy contentedly. "I suppose he
will hate us more heartily than ever now."

They were running some eight or ten miles from the town along a quiet
stretch of road, never dreaming of danger, when Betty's little racer nosed
around a bend in the road and came smack into it! Not twenty feet ahead of
them a man sprang into the middle of the road and leveled a revolver at
them! In one electrified instant they saw that the fellow wore a mask and
a slouch hat and looked for all the world like a brigand straight out of
some sensational moving picture.

Betty, more surprised at first than alarmed, put on her brakes and came to
a standstill, at the same time putting out a hand to warn the car behind
them.

"Oh, Betty, we are being held up!" moaned Grace, who evidently was
frightened enough for both of them. "For goodness' sake, hold up your
hands. He may shoot."

Still feeling rather dazed with the suddenness of the thing, Betty raised
both hands above her head, at the same time feeling a rather hysterical
desire to laugh. It was so absurd, being held up by a masked stranger in
broad daylight.

Nevertheless, she gave a little gasp of fright as the man waved his big
revolver menacingly and came close to the car. She wished frantically that
he would not point that firearm at her. Suppose it should go off!

"Come on, hand over what you got," the robber demanded in a gruff
threatening voice. "The quicker you move, the better it will be for you."

"Wh--what do you want?" asked Betty, in a weak little voice that did not
sound like her own at all. She had thought of her pocketbook beside her in
the pocket of the car. The purse contained a whole month's allowance. She
was sparring desperately for time--help in some form or other might come
at any moment. But the ruffian in the road was evidently in no frame of
mind to be fooled with.

He waved his revolver once more, eliciting a terrified gurgle from Grace
and commanded roughly that they get out of the car.

"No funny business," he snarled. "Get out!"

Betty was about to obey when she had a brilliant thought. Her pepper gun!
She had bought it the day before from the son of her father's chauffeur,
thinking it was an undesirable plaything for a nine-year-old boy and had
put it, as the most convenient place, in her car. And the pepper gun was
filled--as it should have been--with good red cayenne pepper!




Chapter XII

Sheep!



For a moment Betty hesitated, almost afraid of what she was going to do.
The pepper gun might work, but if she were not quick enough or clever
enough, her little trick might also result in a tragedy.

Her hesitation was only momentary, however, for Betty was a born fighter.
Suddenly she cried out as if in joyful greeting to an unexpected arrival.

"Here they come! here they come!" she called, and in the moment that their
captor turned his startled eyes from her to the road ahead, Betty acted.

She snatched the pepper gun from its hiding place in the car and as the
man once more turned furiously upon her let him have the full contents
directly in the face.

It was a dreadful thing to do. Choking and sputtering, the ruffian dropped
his revolver and raised both fists to his tortured eyes.

"I'll get you for this!" he cried between great sneezes that threatened to
tear him apart. "You just wait--"

But Betty refused to wait. As soon as the fellow had dropped his weapon
she had started the engine, and now she guided the car past the stuttering
robber and raced off down the road.

Mollie, who had only half understood what was going on but who had caught
enough of it to be considerably alarmed did not stop to ask questions, but
sped off down the road after Betty.

It was half a dozen miles farther on that Betty finally slowed the car and
waited for Mollie and the others to catch up with her. Grace, who had been
gradually recovering from her fright, had not yet recovered enough to ask
any questions. She had been too much concerned in putting miles between
them and the scene of their adventure.

As Mollie came up alongside, Betty drew her first free breath.

Of course Mollie and Amy and Mrs. Irving wanted to hear all about it, and
Betty told them what had happened, her account interrupted by hysterical
laughter.

But when she came to the pepper gun, the girls' expression of utter
bewilderment changed to admiration of Betty's quick thought and quicker
action.

"Why, Betty," cried Amy, incredulously, "I don't see how you ever had the
courage to do it. Why, that man might have shot you!"

"He probably would have if I hadn't got him first," said Betty, half-way
between laughter and tears. "It was taking an awfully big chance, but,"
with a flash of spirit, "I wasn't going to sit there calmly and have him
take away all our money. Not if I could help it."

"Betty, I think you were simply wonderful," said Mollie in heart-felt
admiration. "Why, if he had taken our money it would have completely
spoiled our trip."

"How they talk," said Grace hysterically. "Any one would think it was only
the trip that mattered when we might very easily have been <i>killed.</i>"

This remark served to bring Mrs. Irving to a realization of the present,
and she suggested that they start on again.

"Not that I am particularly nervous," she hastily added, as the girls
looked at her suspiciously. "Only I will feel just as well when we have
put a dozen miles between us and that highway robber, instead of only half
that. I wish there was a town handy where we could notify the
authorities."

They started on again, and as the miles slid past them they became less
nervous and even began to laugh a little at thought of the robber's
consternation when he received the contents of Betty's pepper gun full in
his face.

"He was probably the most surprised crook ever," commenced Grace with a
chuckle. "He never will get over cursing you, Betty. How did you ever
happen to have it? The pepper gun, I mean," she added curiously.

Betty explained how the gun had come into her possession. "I didn't know,"
she added ruefully, her foot on the accelerator as they sped up a steep
hill, "when I bought it, that it would come in so handy. How much further
do you suppose we have to go?" she asked, changing the subject abruptly.

"Why," said Grace, looking at her wrist watch and realizing suddenly that
she was getting rather hungry, "we have been riding since ten o'clock and
it is now after noon. We must be very nearly there by this time. Goodness,
I hope there will be something to eat around Wild Rose Lodge. I'm getting
famished."

"Mollie's Uncle John said he would attend to that--stocking the cabin with
good things, I mean," said Betty, herself suddenly conscious of a
disturbingly hungry feeling. "He said we would find enough canned things
to last us at least a week."

"Canned things, yes," pouted Grace. "But who in the world wants to live on
canned things? I don't see why we didn't bring a chicken along, at least."

"Well, maybe we can manage to run over one," chuckled Betty, as they
passed a farmhouse and several chickens scuttled squawking across the
road. "Then we can have one good and fresh. For goodness' sake, what is
Mollie tooting that horn for?" she added, as the raucous signal came from
the car behind them, "Has she stopped the car, Grace? Look and see."

"It's stopped deader than a door nail," said Grace, obligingly screwing
about in her seat and fixing on the road behind them a disapproving eye.
"Now what do you suppose can be the trouble this time? If she has had a
blowout or something, I'm not going to help fix the old thing--"

"You couldn't fix the blowout, dear, but you might help with the tire,"
Betty said, with a laugh, as she stopped the roadster and jumped to the
road. "Come on, she seems to be excited about something--"

"Goodness, I hope it isn't another highway robber," said Grace anxiously,
stopping in the middle of the road at the dreadful thought. "I don't see
any, but--"

"You don't see any because there <i>isn't</i> any," Betty assured her,
taking her by the arm and leading her decidedly forward. "You don't
suppose there is a whole Robin Hood's band in this woods, do you?"

Mollie and Amy and Mrs. Irving came running to meet them excitedly--or at
least, Mollie and Amy did the running, while their chaperon followed more
slowly.

"There are blackberries in there, whole bushels and bushels of them!"
Mollie called. "You could see them from the road, and there you girls
passed right by them without even looking."

"Blackberries!" repeated Grace resignedly, as she felt in her pocket to
see if she had any candy left. "Just listen to her speaking of
blackberries when what I'm dying for is a good big steak with onions on
top of it--"

"Stop it," cried Mollie indignantly, while the others felt their mouths
begin to water. "The idea of mentioning steak--But here," she broke off,
seizing Grace's hand and dragging her toward the woods, "come with me and
pick berries if you value your life. Lucky we brought those tin pails
along."

"But why," protested Grace patiently, as she was dragged along, "should we
want to pick berries?"

"To eat," replied Mollie, attacking a bush that was fairly black with the
luscious ripe fruit. "And besides," she added, lowering her voice to a
confidential pitch, "Mrs. Irving said that if she could find some flour
and baking powder in the lodge she would make us a steamed blackberry
pudding for supper."

Grace stared for a moment then, without another word, set to work on the
loaded bush.

"You might have told me that before," she grumbled, her mouth full of
berries. "You always did have a mean disposition, Mollie."

To which Mollie's only reply was a chuckle and a sly wink at Betty, who
was working close at her side.

They worked on happily for a few minutes, then suddenly Amy straightened
up and stood quiet as though she were listening to something.

The girls, whose nerves were still a little on edge from their recent
adventure, demanded to know in no uncertain tones what was the matter with
her.

"N-nothing," Amy answered a little sheepishly. "I thought I heard a little
rustling among the leaves, that's all."

"Probably a breeze coming up," said Betty matter-of-factly, and they went
on with their berry picking.

But it was not long before a second disturbance came, and this time they
all heard it. It was, as Amy had said, a rustling sound. However, it was
louder this time, as though several heavy bodies were pushing through the
underbrush on the other side of the road.

"Perhaps we had better go and see what is making all the noise," said Mrs.
Irving, her light tone successfully hiding an undercurrent of nervousness.
"I guess we have picked enough berries for our pudding, anyway."

The girls picked up their pails and started for the road, Betty in the
lead. But when the latter reached the outer fringe of bushes she started
back, almost treading on Mollie's toes and causing her to drop her pail in
alarm.

"It's sheep!" cried the Little Captain. "Dozens and dozens of them! Come
and look!"




Chapter XIII

The Enemy Routed



Mrs. Irving pushed forward beside Betty, and the girls stared
unbelievingly over her shoulder. Then they saw that she was right.

While they had been picking berries in the woods a flock of sheep had
wandered down to the road from the other direction and had completely
surrounded their two cars.

The big-eyed, innocent looking animals were circling around and around the
machines as if examining them with a sort of ovine interest and curiosity.

But to the girls the sheep had a rather terrifying aspect. There were so
many of them and they had so completely taken possession of their
automobiles! How in the world were they ever to get back their property?

"Goodness!" Grace whispered plaintively in Betty's ear, "I expect they
will try to climb into the cars next. What ever are we going to do?"

"Sh," cautioned Amy fearfully, as some of the flock, attracted by the
noise in the bushes, turned their heads in the direction of it. "Suppose
they should come in here?"

"Well, they are not lions, you goose," said Mollie, coming out of the
trance into which surprise had thrown her. "They are only sheep, and they
couldn't hurt you if they tried."

"Not unless they stampeded," said Betty quietly. "In that case I wouldn't
care to be in the way."

"But we can't stay here all night," Mollie protested impatiently.

"Held up by a lot of silly old sheep," added Grace, still more
uncomfortably conscious of a growing appetite.

"It must be almost two o'clock," added Amy with a sigh.

"Yes, if things keep on this way it will be night before we reach the
lodge," said Mollie, adding with decision, "I vote that we get some sticks
and stones and scat 'em out of the way."

"I think I have a better suggestion than that," put in Mrs. Irving,
speaking for the first time. "I think we had better wait for a short time
before we do anything. The sheep will probably get tired in a little while
and wander off of their own accord."

"Oh, all right," said Mollie, with rather bad grace as she seated herself
on a convenient rock. "But all the time we are waiting for them to be
tired, we will be getting tired ourselves and, goodness, Mrs. Irving, I'm
being starved to death."

At the desperation in her tones the girls had to laugh, though they were
as reluctant to sit with folded hands and wait as she was. Still, Mrs.
Irving was their chaperon and probably knew best.

So with admirable resignation they disposed themselves beside Mollie on
the big rock and settled down to watch for developments.

But after waiting for an everlasting five minutes they decided that there
were to be no developments. The foolish sheep continued to circle lazily
about the cars, nibbling now and then upon the grass by the roadside but
showing not the slightest intention in the world of moving from there for
some time to come.

"Oh, what shall we do?" moaned Grace, moving restlessly on her
uncomfortable seat. "My foot is going to sleep and I'm trying to sit on a
pointed stone or something."

"And it looks as though those crazy sheep were going to stay there all
night," added Betty, herself growing restive at the apparent futility of
waiting for something to happen. "Can't we do something, Mrs. Irving?"

"Wait just a few minutes more," begged the lady, who was afraid of the
sheep, but was reluctant to confess her fear to her young charges. "Look,
there seems to be a movement among them now," she added hopefully, as one
sheep pressed against another and sent it scampering a few feet along the
road. "We won't have to wait much longer, I am sure."

And so, both to break their chaperon's authority, the girls fidgeted and
fumed, getting more impatient and hungrier with every leaden minute that
dragged itself by until almost three-quarters of an hour had passed.

Then, when they began to think that they must scream if they were forced
to wait another minute, their chaperon rose of her own accord and with a
decided movement flicked the dust from her skirt.

"I think we have waited long enough," she hazarded, to which each girl
said a fervent though silent "amen." "I suppose we shall have to follow
Mollie's suggestion and gather sticks and stones. Perhaps we can scare
them away."

"Hooray!" shouted Mollie, jumping to her feet with relief. At the
unexpected sound the sheep in the road started and looked about them
uneasily. "Come on, girls, I'm mad enough to attack Jem single-handed. All
who are with me, say Aye."

"Aye!" they yelled, scurrying about to find sticks and stones.

Betty, flourishing a branch at the frightened flock, yelled: "We are wild,
wild women, old sheep. You had better get out while the going's good. We
eat little fellers like you alive!" and with a whoop of wild spirits she
danced down to the edge of the wood waving her stick wildly about her
head.

Her fun was contagious and, smothering their laughter, the girls waltzed
after her, throwing sticks and stones and all sorts of improvised weapons
into the midst of the now thoroughly frightened flock.

Mrs. Irving strove to caution them, but her voice was lost in the babble,
and for once in her life at least she found herself utterly ignored. With
a little sigh she picked up a stick of her own and followed after the
girls.

For a moment it looked as though the panic stricken sheep would rush
straight for the shouting girls, and in that moment what was little more
than an exciting game to the girls might have turned into a rather
dreadful tragedy.

But, luckily, half a dozen sheep broke through and, led by an old ram,
started down the road and the rest of the flock, as is the habit of sheep,
followed after.

In a moment the entire flock was galloping off down the road with the
excited girls in pursuit. There is no telling how far they might have
followed the sheep had not Betty become suddenly possessed of a grain of
common-sense.

Panting and laughing, she came to a standstill while the girls rushed past
her.

"Come back here!" she cried, her voice choked with laughter. "There's no
use of our being as silly as the sheep. Mrs. Irving will think we have
deserted her."

So reluctantly the girls abandoned the chase and started back to rejoin
their much relieved but slightly dazed chaperon.

"Now if we had only done that an hour ago," said Mollie, as they climbed
back into the machines determined to make up for lost time, "we would have
been that much nearer the lodge and--something to eat."

"Goodness, it will be almost dark when we get there now," wailed Grace, as
she slipped into the seat beside Betty. "And we haven't had anything to
eat since breakfast."

"What with highway robbers and sheep," laughed Betty, as she started the
engine, "we shall be lucky if we get there at all."

"Oh, Betty, if you love me don't mention that awful highwayman again,"
begged Grace, looking uneasily into the shadows of the wood. "I don't want
to have any more thrills like that as long as I live."

"Let's hope we won't," said Betty fervently.

"It's a pity there is no telephone along this road--we could notify the
folks at Deepdale," remarked Mollie.

"Humph, if we did that they might get so scared that they'd send for us to
come home," came from Amy.

"That's so!" came from the other Outdoor Girls quickly.

"Well, as I said before, no more thrills like that for yours truly,"
repeated Grace.

But little did the girls know that in the weeks to follow they would have
more and more startling thrills than they had ever experienced before.




Chapter XIV

Nothing Human



They might have reached Wild Rose Lodge before dusk, in spite of Grace's
gloomy prediction, if everything had gone well then. But it seemed that
the evil genius of bad luck was not yet through with them.

They were scarcely five miles from their destination when, bang! went a
report that made the girls clutch at each other wildly. At first they
jumped to the conclusion that they were being held up again, but close on
the heels of the first thought came the conviction of the truth. Mollie
had had a blowout!

Betty, looking behind, saw the big car stop and brought her own little
roadster to a standstill once more.  "There is nothing wrong with our
tires, is there?" she asked of Grace. "Look over your side, Gracie, and
see."

Finding nothing amiss, they jumped out and ran back to Mollie to offer
assistance. Mollie was eyeing the flat tire gloomily and saying things
under her breath that none of the girls could catch. Then as Betty spoke
to her she seemed to come to life and ran around to the back of the
machine.

"Of course you can help," she answered, working to release the extra tire.
"I would like to see you get out of it. Lucky I bought an extra tire
before we started, though I did hope," here she glared at the girls as if
it were all their fault, "that I wouldn't have to use it so soon. We've
had more trouble on this ride than any I can remember. A hold-up, sheep
and--this!"

"Well, there is no use talking about it," Betty reminded her cheerfully.
"The less we talk, the harder we can work and the sooner we shall get
started again."

"Yes, that's all very well," grumbled Mollie, as she fumbled for her
tools; "but you don't know this place as well as I do."

"You talk," said Amy, her eyes widening, "as though there were wild
animals or something in the woods. I didn't know they came as far east as
this."

"They don't, goose," said Mollie grumpily, as she pulled at the tire. "I
didn't say anything about wild animals, did I? Only we have to ride about
two miles through the woods before we get to the lodge and I must say I
didn't want to do that in the dark."

"But there is some sort of road, isn't there?" asked Grace.

Mollie, bending over the lifting jack, shot her a withering glance.

"Of course there's a road," she said shortly. "How else could we expect to
use the cars?"

"It must be a sort of wagon road," suggested Betty as she deftly helped
her chum. "And I don't blame you for not wanting to try it at night,
Mollie. I don't much like the idea myself."

"I believe if we hurry that we can get there before dusk," said Mrs.
Irving confidently, though it might have been noticed that she kept her
eyes rather anxiously on the fast sinking sun.

At last, after what seemed an eternity to the impatient girls, the new
tire had replaced the old one, the old one was safely strapped on the back
of the car, the tools were put away, and they were ready to start once
more.

"Give her plenty of gas this time, Betty," Mollie sung after her as the
Little Captain climbed into her car. "If we can manage to get to the woods
before dark we will be doing good work. Let her go."

With which advice she settled herself behind the wheel of her own car and
they were off once more.

Betty did "give her plenty of gas," the result being that they succeeded
in reaching the wagon road that led into the woods to the lodge just on
the edge of dusk.

However, when they started along the road they were dismayed to find that
what was only dusk outside on the road became almost dark in here, and
Betty had all she could do to keep to the road at all.

"Hadn't you better put on your lights?" Grace suggested uneasily. "We
might run into a ditch or something. Betty, I'm half scared."

For answer Betty switched on the lights and the woods and the road ahead
of them were suddenly flooded with a weird radiance. It brought out
branches and leaves and stones in such sharp contrast to the dark
background that the effect was startling.

"Oh," gasped Grace, "turn them off again, do, Betty. It is positively
ghastly."

"Don't be foolish," said Betty, striving to make her voice sound
matter-of-fact, her eyes glued to the road ahead of them as it twisted and
turned through the woods. "I don't see why lights should make a perfectly
harmless wood look ghastly. And, anyway, I couldn't turn them out now. I
don't believe I could find my way. You don't want me to run into
something, do you?"

"No, of course not," Grace said more firmly, rather ashamed of her fears.
"I didn't mean to act in a silly fashion. But," she turned to Betty
quickly, "that hold-up and all--don't you feel a little queer yourself,
Betty? Tell the truth."

"Yes," said the Little Captain truthfully. "I feel," she added slowly, as
though searching for words, "I feel as though the woods belonged to
somebody and that we were sort of--sort of--intruding."

"Why, Betty!" said Grace, staring at her, "what a funny thing to say."

"I suppose it is," said Betty, shaking off the illusion with a shrug of
her shoulders. "I am getting foolish in my old age I guess. We shall all
feel better when we get something to eat."

"If we ever do," said Grace gloomily, adding as a sudden turn in the woods
shot them deeper into the gloom of it: "Do be careful, Betty. I feel as
though we were going over a precipice."

But Betty was too busy keeping the road to listen to her.

"Look behind," she directed Grace, "and see if Mollie is following close
to us."

"She is right behind," reported Grace, as two eyes of light shot their
glare in her eyes. "She is following us closer than a poor relation."

Betty giggled at this, and then for a long time--or at least it seemed a
long time to their strained nerves--they went on in silence, following the
winding road wherever it led and getting deeper into the forest with every
moment.

Then suddenly something loomed up dark against the shadows only a few
hundred feet ahead of them, and with a great feeling of thankfulness they
realized that they had reached their destination. Directly ahead of them
stood Wild Rose Lodge. They had arrived!

But just as they were about to break into wild jubilation something
happened that tightened Betty's hand on the wheel and made Grace cry out
with dismay.

Out from the shadow of the lodge a second shadow detached itself, a
hunched up, bulky, fearful shadow that seemed neither beast nor man, but a
combination of both of them.

For a moment, while the girls watched, paralyzed with fright, the thing
seemed about to spring into the path of the moving car. But in another
instant it turned, wheeled, and disappeared into the thick bushes about
the house.

Then and only then did Betty recover presence of mind enough to stop the
car.

"Betty! Betty!" cried Grace in a horrified whisper, grasping Betty's hand
as it clung to the wheel. "What was it? Oh, what was it?"

"I don't know," Betty answered mechanically. "I only know it was
horrible."

Then quite suddenly and without warning Grace broke down and cried.




Chapter XV

Wild Roses



"We will go into the house," Mrs. Irving answered to their concerted cry of
"What shall we do?" "Whatever it was that has frightened us has
disappeared now, and we shall certainly be safer inside the house than out
here. Come on, girls, I have the key."

And so, leaving the cars where they were, the girls approached the house
with shaking knees and hearts that hammered their fear aloud. The Outdoor
Girls were ordinarily afraid of nothing real and human, but to be held up
at the point of a pistol would unnerve almost any one, and the struggle
the girls had made not to give way to their fears at the time had made
them more nervous still. And this thing that had startled them now, added
to what had gone before, seemed a little more than could be borne. It
seemed, in fact, like nothing human.

Mrs. Irving turned the key in the lock, opened the door and stepped inside
the dark place, motioning to the girls to follow her.

Fearfully the chums obeyed and Betty and Mollie pulled out their electric
pocket torches, filling the place with a weird light. Mollie, being
acquainted with the place, naturally took charge of the situation.

"There are matches over there," she said, "and candles over the fireplace.
For goodness' sake, let's get a regular light, folks. Perhaps that will
make us feel more natural."

"So say all of us," echoed Amy. "The dark makes everything worse, when you
are not well acquainted with a place."

Mollie touched a match to the candles, and in the answering flare turned
to face her chums.

"Girls," she said, determinedly, "I don't know how you feel about it, but
I vote that before we do anything else we get something to eat. We all
look like ghosts just now and I'm sure we feel much worse than that. But a
little food makes a monstrous lot of difference."

"You know it does," cried Grace, relaxing into one of the big chairs that
were scattered about the room and covering her face with her hands. "I
think if I don't get something to eat soon, I'll die, that's all."

"Well, we are none of us going to die," said Mrs. Irving vigorously, as
she threw aside her coat and hat. "Show us the way to the kitchen, Mollie,
and if there is anything there to eat, we will get it."

Accordingly Mollie took one of the candles and led the way into a little
room beyond while all the girls but Betty crowded in after her.

For the Little Captain slipped back for a moment and very quietly closed
the door, shutting out definitely the shadow beyond it.

"I suppose it is foolish," she said to herself, "because if there is
anything out there that really wants to get in there are plenty of ways
that it can do it, without coming in through the door. But," and she
turned the key in the lock, "it certainly makes one feel more comfortable
to have the door closed." Then she followed the girls into the other room,
and the sight that met her eyes was certainly more cheering than anything
she could have imagined.

Mollie's Uncle John had surprised them. In the exact center of a table set
for five lay a young pig, roasted whole and browned to a turn! Nor was
this all. The table was littered with covered dishes of all sizes and
descriptions, and as the contents of each one of these dishes was
disclosed, the girls became more and more excited and hilarious.

There was apple sauce in one, salad in another, mashed potatoes that had
become quite cold in another, and a boat of gravy which had also become
quite cold.

"But we don't mind," cried Mollie joyfully, as she took the gravy-boat in
one hand, the dish of potatoes in the other, and ran with them over to a
great stove in one corner of the room. "We need only some matches to have
this blazing hot in a minute. No, not that way, Grace," as the latter
tried to help by lighting the burner. "This isn't a gas stove, you know;
it's an oil stove and you had better look out or you will blow us all up."

It is small wonder if Betty was so dazzled by this joyful scene that she
could neither move nor speak for the space of two seconds or so. Then,
recovering her powers of locomotion, she went over to the table and picked
up a note that, in their excitement, the girls had overlooked.

"See what this says," she called to them, and they looked at her rather
impatiently. Just at that moment the only thing they cared to consider was
food--and more food--and then some more!

But as Betty read they became more interested, and even stopped long
enough to hear her through. It was a brief note. This is what it said.

    "My dear young ladies:

    "I am a neighbor of Mr. Prendergast," (this was the dressed-up name
     of Mollie's Uncle John) "and he axed me to get your dinner ready fer
     you. I tried to keep it hot but you wus so long comin' I had to go
     home to get dinner fer my old man. Hope things is all right.

    "Lizzie Davis."

"So she is the one who has done all this," said Betty, looking around at
the good things with dancing eyes. "I bet she is nice and plump and has
rosy cheeks."

"Lizzie Davis? Lizzie Davis?" repeated Mollie, bringing the steaming gravy
back and plumping the dish triumphantly down on the table. "Rather a funny
name for a fairy godmother, but she sure does know how to cook. Don't
forget the potatoes, Grace. Come on, girls--let's sit down."

So down the girls sat and acted like ravenous pigs--or so Grace described
their conduct afterward. Mrs. Irving set to work carving the delicious
pork, but they could not wait for her.

They seized slices of bread, spread apple sauce and butter on them, and
ate like what they were, four famished girls and one equally famished
chaperon who had been out in the open all day and had had nothing to eat
since morning.

It was some time before they showed any considerable signs of slowing up.
Then Grace put down her fork, leaned back lazily, and called for dessert.
The latter was a huge cherry pie, and before the girls were through with
it there was not enough left to color a robin's egg.

After the pangs of hunger had been satisfied they found to their great
surprise that they were dead tired and sleepy.

"We will get the dishes out of the way and then Mollie can show us where
we sleep," said Betty. "Oh, girls, did you ever in your life taste such a
dinner?"

It was not till the dishes had all been cleared away and Mollie took up
her candle to show them their quarters that the unwelcome thought of the
thing that had so frightened them again crept terrifyingly into their
minds. Try as they would to forget it, they could not.

There were three small sleeping rooms in the lodge, but, small as they
were, they were comfortable and contained beds that seemed the height of
luxury to the tired girls.

Because of the indistinct and flickering candle light the girls could make
out very little of what the rooms really looked like, and they postponed
any close examination until the morning. Back of the lodge was a shed for
the cars.

The bedrooms were all joined by doors, which gave the girls a safe and
sociable feeling. Mrs. Irving, of course, had one room to herself, Betty
and Mollie slept together and Grace and Amy paired off.

They wasted little time in getting ready--Betty and Mollie had appointed
themselves a committee of two to bring in the grips from Mollie's car--and
before long they tasted the exquisite restfulness of comfortable beds
after a long nerve-trying day in the out-of-doors.

"I don't believe I shall close my eyes all night," said Amy with
conviction. "I'm too horribly nervous."

But three minutes later she was sound asleep!

The sun had been up a good two hours before any one stirred in Wild Rose
Lodge. Betty was the first to awake, and in fifteen minutes she had the
rest of the sleepy-eyed and protesting girls up and nearly dressed.

"What's the idea, anyway?" yawned Grace lazily. "I could have slept at
least a good two hours more."

"On a day like this?" sang Betty, breathing in deep breaths of the
wood-scented air. "And isn't this just the dearest room you ever saw?"
she added, wheeling about and regarding the apartment delightedly. They
were in Grace and Amy's room, for, as usual, Mollie and Betty had been
the first dressed and had gone into their churns' room to hurry them up
--if such a thing were possible.

Betty's summing up of the room they were in was indeed well deserved, for
the place was charming. There was a dresser, a bed, and three chairs, and
all of these articles of furniture had been rough-hewed out of logs,
giving the place a delightfully rustic appearance. There was a grass rug
on the floor and in one corner a little table covered with books.

"Isn't it darling?" cried Mollie, following Betty's glance about the
place. "Uncle John built the lodge and made all of the furniture himself,
you know. And he bought the grass rugs from the Indians."

They were still exclaiming about the place when Mrs. Irving called to them
that breakfast was ready. With a whoop of delight they answered the
summons, and a moment later sat themselves down to a most satisfying meal
of omelet and toast and coffee with real cream in it. Also Mrs. Irving set
on the table a yellow-topped pitcher of milk fresh from the cow.

"Our friend, Lizzie Davis, brought it," their chaperon answered with a
smile, in response to the girls' curious questions. "Also some fresh
butter and eggs. I have an idea," she added, as she got up to refill the
butter plate, "that we shall live on the fat of the land while we are
here."

"Lizzie Davis," repeated Betty, pausing in the act of filling her glass
with fresh milk and regarding Mrs. Irving with dancing eyes. "Tell me,
chaperon dear. Didn't she have nice red cheeks, and wasn't she
delightfully plump?"

"Yes," said Mrs. Irving, smiling at Betty's flushed prettiness. "She was
all of that, my dear. I don't believe I ever saw a more cozy looking
person in my life."

"I knew it!" cried Betty triumphantly, adding with a suspicious eye on
Grace: "Hand over that plate of toast, Gracie. You needn't think you can
eat it all up!"

After breakfast they sallied forth to "view the country o'er." They would
have stayed and helped Mrs. Irving clear up, but that good woman declared
that she could do better by herself on this first morning. After she had
become better acquainted with the place they could help her all they
liked. Finally, after some protest, they had to let her have her way.

As they stepped out on the porch, Betty paused and held up her hand for
silence.

"Listen," she said. "That murmuring sound and the splash of water--"

"It's the river and the falls," explained Mollie. "Let's go down and have
a look at them."

But Amy, giving a little gasp of delight, fairly tumbled down the steps
and into a riot of gorgeous pink wild roses. The lodge was fairly
surrounded by them.

"Oh, you darlings!" cried Amy, putting both arms around a bush of the
fragrant flowers as though she would gather in all their beauty at once.
"I never saw anything so wonderful in all my life! Oh, girls, I'm glad I
came!"




Chapter XVI

The Whirlpool



All the spirit and joy of the woods seemed to have entered into the
Outdoor Girls. For the next half hour they romped in the woods and the
beautiful flowers for all the world like little children whose first
glimpse it was of the country.

They took down their hair and made wreaths of wild roses for crowns, and
when, faces flushed with exercise and fun, they had finished, one might
easily have mistaken them for real fairies come to life.

"But I want to see the river," Betty called to them, stopping once more to
listen to the rhythmic sound of splashing water. "Come on, girls. It can't
be more than a few hundred feet away, even though we can't see it for the
bushes. Lead on, Mollie Billette, I wouldst hie me hence."

But when Mollie laughingly obeyed and started into the woods, Amy held
back.

"What's the matter?" Grace asked, turning to her curiously.

"I--I was just thinking," stammered Amy, ashamed of her own weakness,
"about last night."

"About last night," Betty prompted, still at a loss.

"You haven't forgotten, have you?" she asked, incredulously. "That--thing
--on the porch."

"Oh!" they said, and a shadow fell over their bright faces.

"Why, yes," said Betty, slowly, adding as though she could not quite
explain the phenomenon herself: "I suppose we did forget all about it."

"Or if we didn't, we should have," said Mollie, ungrammatically but
decidedly. "Come on, girls, we aren't going to let any silly old thing
like that frighten us out of a good time."

"It seems," said Grace thoughtfully, while Amy still held back, "almost as
if we had dreamed the whole thing. The memory of it is so vague--and
indistinct."

"Well, it isn't vague to me--or indistinct either," said Amy, feeling
rather abused because the girls did not seem to share her feelings. "I
hardly slept all night long just thinking about it"

"Oh, Amy Blackford!" said Grace accusingly, while Mollie and Betty turned
twinkling eyes upon her. "If that isn't the biggest one I ever heard. Why,
I woke up once or twice in the night and each time I found you almost
snoring."

"Oh, I did not," protested Amy, flushing indignantly, but here Mollie and
Betty stepped laughingly into the fray and peremptorily put an end to it.

"Let's not fight about it," said Betty, when she could make herself heard.
"We don't care whether Amy snored or not. What we want to know is this:
Who is coming with us for a look at the falls?"

"Now you're talking, Little Captain," said Mollie approvingly. "All in
favor please say Aye."  Amy still showed some inclination to hold back,
but Mollie and Betty each took an arm and hurried her willy-nilly with
them into the woods.

"You had better take the lead, Mollie," Betty suggested after they had
gone some little distance along the path. "I can manage Amy alone now, I
guess. She seems pretty well tamed."

"Tamed, but scared to death," Amy came back, with a wry smile. "Really,
Betty," she turned to look at the Little Captain closely, "aren't you the
least little bit nervous about what happened last night?"

"No, I don't think I am now," said Betty, adding candidly, "I must say I
was last night though--just frightened to death. It seemed so awfully
uncanny--coming upon that thing in the dark after what we had gone through
with that bandit. But then," she added more lightly, "everything seems so
much worse in the dark, you know."

"Yes," said Amy slowly and looking very serious. "That all may be very
true. But I think that as long as we are sure we didn't dream it last
night and that the skulking thing really dodged out from the corner of our
porch that we ought to be on our guard against it. And how," she finished
most reasonably, "can we be on our guard in the woods?"

Betty was at a loss to know just how to answer such a question. By this
time Mollie and Grace were some little distance ahead of them and Amy's
nervousness was beginning to communicate itself to her against her will.

She felt again the creeping sensation that had traveled up and down her
spine at sight of that crouching, sinister figure that had sprung out from
the shadow of the porch.

It had disappeared into the bushes last night, and, for all she knew--and
the thought made her tingle weirdly--it might still be hiding in them,
crouching, ready to spring--

With an effort she shook off the mood and turned to Amy brightly.

"There is no use in our making a mountain out of a mole hill," she said,
plucking a wild rose as they swung by and smelling of its delicious
fragrance. "Last night, I admit, it seemed very terrifying to us, but that
was probably because we couldn't see what it was that frightened us. It
may just have been a large dog or something."

"Humph," sniffed Amy, sceptically, "it must have been a monster dog. Sort
of a ghost hound."

"Goodness, that's going from bad to worse," laughed Betty, as they
rejoined the other girls. "Let's hope it isn't anything like that, Amy
dear. Hello, what are you waiting for?" she hailed the girls cheerfully.
"We almost fell over you."

"Watch your step," cautioned Mollie, adding as she cleared aside some
bushes and motioned Betty to a place beside her: "We've reached the river,
Betty, and a little farther up is the falls. Isn't it beautiful?"

"Oh, it is beautiful," rejoined Betty, a sentiment which Amy heartily
echoed, and for a few minutes they stood there, drinking in the beauty of
the scene, entirely unmindful of the lovely picture they themselves made
with their loosened hair and wreaths of wild flowers.

The river was not very wide, but the water was deep and clear and swift
and the continual swish-swish of its passage over rocks and between
foliage-laden banks made a pleasant, even sound that was deliciously
restful and refreshing.

"Oh, if we could only get down right into the very middle of it and let
those little ripples wash over us forever and forever!" sighed Grace
ecstatically.

"She would a little mermaid be!" sang Betty, as she slipped down to the
very edge of the water and leaned over to catch her reflection in the
bright depths of it. "But honestly, Mollie, isn't there any place in the
river where we can swim?"

"It looks too swift for good swimming to me--" began Grace, but Mollie
stopped her with a mysterious finger to her lips.

"Hush, my pretty one, not a word," said the latter, beginning to pick her
way daintily along the river bank. "Follow me and you will wear diamonds,
or seaweed, or whatever it is that mermaids wear. And don't fall over,
whatever you do," she turned around to caution them. "The river is so
swift here that I don't believe even the strongest swimmer would have a
chance."

Accordingly the girls "watched their step," and for some distance followed
Mollie uncomplainingly. Then, as there seemed no sign of their getting
anywhere, Grace started to protest.

"Say, do you suppose she has any idea where she is going?" the latter
asked of Betty in a tone that was designed to reach Mollie's ear. But
before she could say anything more, Mollie herself swung jubilantly round
upon them.

"Here we are, girls!" she cried. "Now see if you ever saw anything so
pretty in all your lives."

Once more the girls stood spellbound by the natural beauty of the scene.
As they walked they had become more and more conscious of the roaring
noise made by rushing water, and now, ascending a small rise of ground,
they came full upon the majestic beauty of Moonlight Falls.

The falls fell full thirty feet, and at the foot of it the river was
churned into swirling, liquid foam that whirled around and around again in
a sort of mad race and then went rushing off down the river in a shower of
lacy spray.

It was wildly inspiring, exhilarating, and the girls thrilled with a
strange new emotion as they watched. It was so free, so gloriously
unchained!

"There is our swimming pool over there," Mollie said, raising her voice to
make it heard above the roar of the water. "You see there is a sort of
little back eddy below the falls and to one side of it, and right there
we'll find the best swimming of our lives. But," she added, and her voice
was impressively solemn, "heaven help any one of us who gets in the path
of the falls."

"Look!" cried Amy suddenly, her voice ringing out full and clear and
startled above the uproar. "That--thing--over there. It is going into the
falls--no, under them!"

"Where?" cried Mollie eagerly, leaning far forward. "Oh, yes, I see what
you mean. Oh, girls, I'm slipping!" Her voice rose to a terrified wail.
"Betty! Catch me!"

But Betty was too late. She sprang forward just in time to see Mollie
slide down the slippery bank and plunge into the maddened water of the
river!




Chapter XVII

The "Thing"



It took the girls a moment to realize the extent of the awful thing that
had happened. Then Betty, obeying her first impulse, raised her hands
above her head as though to dive, but Amy screamed to her to stop.

"You will only be lost too!" she cried frantically. "Look--that flat
stick--the long one--"

Instantly Betty saw what she meant and stooped to pick up a long broken
branch that was lying at her feet. At the same instant Mollie came to the
surface several feet away from the spot where she had fallen and threw her
strength desperately against the rushing might of the river.

Betty ran along the river bank, Amy and Grace at her heels, shouting
encouragement to Mollie as she ran.

"Hold tight!" she cried, adding with fresh dismay as she saw that the girl
was being swept further from the shore: "Over this way, honey. Swim to
your right--to your right--"

Blinded, chilled to the bone with the cold water, her hair in her eyes and
her skirts clinging tight about her legs, Mollie struggled wildly, unable
to hear the shouts of her chums above the ringing in her ears.

It was taking all her strength to hold her own against the rush of the
river--and now she was not even doing that! Slowly, very slowly, she was
being pushed backward; in a little while more she would be sucked
downward, and then--

She closed her eyes, and then, as though the obliteration of one sense
made more clear the other, she heard Betty calling to her above the roar
of the falls.

"Mollie! Mollie!" it came, faint but distinct, "take hold of the stick and
we'll pull you in. Mollie, do you hear me?"

The girl in the water was still struggling hard against the current that
was dragging at her cruelly, and at the sound of Betty's words she shook
the water from her eyes and looked about her dazedly. She had forgotten
the girls.

Then she saw something that sent a tingle of renewed hope through her
tired body. What she saw was a long branch bobbing on the water not two
feet from her outstretched hand, and at the other end of the stick was--
Betty.

With a sigh that was half a sob she struck out for it, reached it, and
clung to it as only the drowning know how to cling.

Then she felt herself being drawn through the water, and once more she
closed her eyes. When she opened them again she was on a warm grassy bank
with Amy chafing one hand, Grace the other, while Betty was busy
unfastening the clothes about her waist.

As Mollie was never under any circumstances expected to act as people
thought she should act, so this occasion was no exception to the rule. She
pushed Amy and Grace aside, glared at Betty, and sat up with a little
jerk.

"For goodness' sake, stop undressing me, Betty Nelson!" she said. "I'm not
dead yet."

"So we see," said Betty, while her eyes lost their anxious expression and
began to twinkle instead. "But you might have been, you know, if we had
left you to yourself."

Mollie looked down at her dripping clothes ruefully and then out at the
rushing water.

"I guess you are right," she said with a little grimace. "It wasn't very
pleasant while it lasted, either. Whew, but that water was cold!" She
shivered involuntarily and Betty sprang to her feet.

"We had better be getting back to the lodge," she said. "You can put on
some dry things, Mollie, and we girls will get you some hot soup. You are
chilled to the bone."

"Nonsense," denied Mollie grumpily. "I'm beginning to feel fine and warm.
Besides," she added, trying to cover a chill that fairly made her teeth
ache, "I want to stay and find out about that thing that got us into all
this fuss."

"Nonsense," Grace put in. Up to this time Grace had been made speechless
by Mollie's sudden recovery. "You are shivering so you can't sit still."

"It makes me cold just to look at you," added Amy.

"Don't be foolish, honey," said Betty impatiently. "You can't sit there
all day in dripping clothes, and besides you will really get cold."

"Humph," grunted Mollie, getting to her feet rather unsteadily and shaking
out her sodden skirts. "I guess this isn't the first time I have taken a
dip in cold water. And besides," she added impatiently: "I don't know
about you girls, but I would like to know just what that thing was that we
saw dart beneath the falls."

"That was what made you fall into the water, wasn't it?" asked Betty, her
forehead wrinkling thoughtfully. "You leaned so far out to see--"

"Yes, yes," Mollie interrupted impatiently, all her curiosity revived.
"That was what made me fall into the water all right. But what I want to
know is--what was it?"

"I don't know," said Betty, shaking her head. "I didn't see it."

"Neither did I," Grace added.

Mollie looked from one to the other of them open-mouthed. Then she turned
to Amy.

"You saw it, didn't you?" she asked. "You screamed, you know."

"Yes," said Amy, nodding her head very solemnly. "And it looked to me a
lot like what we saw last night."

"Thank goodness, you saw it too or the girls would surely think I had been
dreaming or was crazy," said Mollie, with relief. Then she suddenly turned
and started off into the woods. "I'm going all alone to find out what that
was," she told her stupefied chums. "I've got to clear up the mystery
before I'm an hour older."

But this time Mollie found that there was some one stronger than she, and
that was Betty. The Little Captain ran after her and brought her back,
protesting but captive.

"We are going back to the house now and get you something hot to eat,"
said Betty, as they rejoined Amy and Grace and started off toward home.
"Afterwards if everybody's willing we will hunt this strange beast that
jumps out from porches and leaps into rivers just for the fun of the
thing. But just now, Billy Billette, you are going home."

But Mollie had been more severely shocked than she was willing to admit by
her experience, and it was some time before the girls visited the falls or
the river again. Meanwhile they contented themselves with exploring the
country about the lodge, taking short trips in the cars and wondering
whether the boys would really be home before the summer was over.

Their days were not altogether happy, however, for the thought of that
weird thing prowling around in the woods and ready, for all they knew, to
spring out at them at every turn, refused to be banished from their minds.

Then, too, they thought a great deal about poor Professor Dempsey and the
little ruined cottage in the woods. Somehow, they had an uneasy feeling
that if they had gone to him at the very first minute they had heard of
his trouble they might have helped him. Whereas, they had waited and--he
had fled.

For a while the idea of a dip in the swimming pool was naturally not very
attractive to Mollie, but at last there came a day when she herself
suggested it and the girls enthusiastically seconded the motion.

More than the prospect of a good time, was the hope, unexpressed, that
they might see again that strange thing which Amy and Mollie had only
glimpsed the time before. Perhaps, they thought, if the mysterious thing
were faced in the open and in broad daylight, it might prove to be no
mystery at all but something ordinary and commonplace enough to do away
with all their vague and weird imaginings.

But in this expectation they were most completely disappointed. Nothing at
all unusual occurred and although they enjoyed their swim in the warm back
eddy of the pool, they came away disgruntled and with a curious feeling
that they had been cheated out of something.

"I only wish the boys would come," sighed Amy, as they turned in once more
at the lodge.

After that the "Thing" became almost like an obsession with them. They
must find out definitely what it was that was spoiling all their fun. They
began to haunt the river, especially at the foot of the falls, in the hope
of seeing something, anything that would put an end to their curiosity and
uneasiness.

For a long time they had not got up courage enough to visit the place at
night, but at last they became curious enough to brave even that.

"We have simply got to find out something," Mollie whispered to Betty as
on this particular night they stood on the porch and waited for Mrs.
Irving to join them. "We can't go on this way any longer, Betty. Why, I am
getting so nervous I jump if you look at me."

"I know," said Betty soberly. "It really is getting on our nerves too
much. Amy and Grace are feeling it even worse than we are."

"Yes," agreed Mollie grumpily. "Last night was the third night in
succession that Amy got us all out of bed to listen to some fool noise
outside. I'm just about sick of it."

The other three came then and they had no further chance for conversation.
As a matter of fact, they talked surprisingly little on the walk to the
river.

High above them a wonderful full moon sent its silvery light filtering
down through leaves and branches, making of the woods a fairyland.
Somehow, the very beauty of it filled the girls with a strange dread. To
them the patches of moonlight were weird, unreal, the shadowy woods held a
sinister menace.

By the time they had reached the river's edge they were almost ready to
turn and run. But they conquered the impulse and pressed on. Then suddenly
they saw what they had hoped, yet dreaded, to see.

On the opposite bank, staring down into the rapids with a terrible
intentness, stood a man, or something that resembled a man. In one awful,
breath-taking minute they realized that here at last was the "Thing."

As they watched, the hunched-up crouching figure on the opposite bank made
a lumbering movement forward as though about to throw itself into the
water at the foot of the falls.

"Oh!" screamed Betty, the words wrenched from her dry throat. "Don't do
that! You mustn't do that! Go back! For goodness' sake, go back!"

With a hoarse cry that answered her own, the "Thing" flung back from the
water's edge and disappeared into the darkness!




Chapter XVIII

Surprised



The Outdoor Girls could hardly have told how they got back to the lodge
after that. Blindly they stumbled through the underbrush, expecting they
knew not what horrible thing, thankful for the moonlight that made it
possible for them to hurry.

They did reach home somehow and there they sat until late into the night,
trying to find some explanation for the thing they had seen, striving to
think up some plan for hunting it down until finally Mrs. Irving sent them
to bed.

That did not do very much good, for they lay awake and talked until the
first rays of sunlight crept into the windows. Then they said goodnight
and sank into a sleep of exhaustion.

For three days after the episode the girls never went far from the house
on foot. They would take the cars and spin down the open road, but a sort
of horror of the supernatural kept them from venturing into the woods
again.

But when the fourth day dawned the fright of their moonlight experience
had begun to wear off and they were beginning to feel ashamed of their
fear.

Having a little of this in her mind, Mollie gave voice to it at the
breakfast table.

"I must say," she began, buttering a piece of bread energetically, "that
it isn't like us Outdoor Girls to let anything scare us into staying near
the house. Why, I declare, I don't believe there is one of us who would
dare poke her nose past that rose bush in front of the porch after
sundown. That's a pretty state of affairs, isn't it?"

"Well, you needn't glare at me as if it were all my fault," retorted Amy
with spirit. "I'm sure I didn't wish the horrible old thing on us."

"I only wish I knew who did," sighed Grace, adding, with a sudden burst of
ferocity: "I would wring his neck."

"Suppose somebody suggests something we can do about it," said Betty
reasonably. "I'm sure that after the other night nobody could blame us for
being frightened."

"No. But there is one thing I can blame you for," said Mollie, glaring
morosely at her chum. "And that is for not letting the horrible old thing
drown itself when it so very evidently wanted to. If that had happened all
our worries would have been over."

"Goodness, Mollie, what a horrible idea!" Betty protested.

"I don't think it was a horrible idea," Grace put in. "I think it was just
about the finest idea I ever heard of."

"Yes," added Amy with a deceptive mildness, "if you hadn't called out just
then, Betty, the whole thing would have been over and the Thing would have
been drowned. And then," she added plaintively, "we would have been able
to enjoy our summer."

"It really wasn't any of our business, you know," Grace finished, moodily.

For a moment Betty sat and stared at them, undecided whether to be amused
or indignant. However, the latter emotion won and she turned upon the
girls with flashing eyes.

"I think you are all perfectly horrid," she said. "And I would think you
were worse if I weren't perfectly sure that you don't really mean what you
say. Why, just suppose," she went on earnestly, "that we had willingly
permitted that man to commit suicide? Why, we would have been just as
guilty as if we had murdered him!"

"But he may have done it since anyway," muttered Mollie stubbornly. "He
didn't have to wait to ask our permission, and there are plenty of times
that he can commit suicide when we are not around--if he really wants to
do it."

"What he or anybody else does when we are not around, is not our
business," answered Betty. "We can't help what happens in our absence."

"You seem to take it for granted that it is a man," Mollie continued,
still stubbornly argumentative. "But I am not so sure about that. The
several times that we have seen the--the--Thing--it has looked as much
animal as human to me."

"Well, we won't argue that point," said Betty, rising and beginning to
clear away the dishes, "because we don't know anything about it."

"That is just exactly what I am getting at," said Mollie earnestly,
leaning forward and resting her elbows on the table while the girls
watched her interestedly. "We don't know anything about it, but that is no
reason why we should sit back and twiddle our thumbs and start at
shadows."

"Well, for goodness' sake, tell us what's on your mind," prompted Grace
impatiently. "We haven't sat back and twiddled our thumbs and started at
shadows because we enjoyed it, you know."

"Now my plan is this," said Mollie, ignoring Grace, who shrugged her
shoulders and reached for her candy box. "Suppose we take a tramp through
the woods to the head of the falls? It is a beautiful hike and the scenery
at the falls is magnificent. But aside from that we will have a chance to
find out something about this thing that will do away with the mystery."

"If it doesn't do away with us at the same time," said Amy so ruefully
that they had to laugh at her.

"Well, what do you say?" asked Mollie, looking around the circle of
thoughtful faces--her glance a dare.

For a moment it looked as if they all might refuse to go, but then their
sporting blood came to the fore and they decided for the adventure.

But when they told Mrs. Irving about their project and begged her to say
yes to it, she looked very doubtful and only consented at last on the
proviso that she was to go with them. This they were only too glad to
have, and a few minutes later the lodge hummed with excitement and
preparation once more. To the Outdoor Girls, active and fun-loving by
nature, to be quiet for a few days was nothing short of torture. So now,
even though there was still more than a little fear of the "Thing" in
their hearts, they found relief in the promise of adventure.

They put up some sandwiches and fruit in a basket in case they were not
able to get home by noon. Then they locked the door of the little lodge
and started down the steps. They hesitated before starting into the woods,
and Mollie had a happy thought.

"We can go part of the way along the road," she said. "And then there is a
path that leads directly through to the head of the falls."

The celerity with which they accepted this suggestion seemed funny to them
afterward, but at the time they had other things to think about. Mostly
they were wondering if they would really be able to hold on to their nerve
long enough to see the adventure through.

"I wish," said Betty wistfully, as she had wished so many times of late,
"that the boys were here. They could help us out so beautifully." And she
sighed, for when she spoke of "the boys," she always thought of one boy
most--and that one was Allen.

"Well, there's no use wishing for what can't possibly happen," Grace was
saying, when there came a whistle so clear and penetrating that it made
them jump--then another, and another. Was it just that they were nervous
or was there really something peculiarly familiar in the sound? At any
rate they stopped and turned around to see who the whistlers could be.

There were three soldiers coming down the road, broad-shouldered, vital
looking fellows who swung along toward the astonished girls as though they
owned the world.

"Betty, oh, Betty!" whispered Grace in a tense voice, grasping Betty's arm
so hard it hurt "It can't be, oh, it can't be the boys!"

But Mollie had broken away from the group and was rushing toward the
soldier lads like the wild little tomboy she was.

"Girls, it's the boys! it's the boys! it's the boys!" she yelled. "They're
all tanned and they're at least ten inches taller, but it's the boys just
the same."

And before any of the other girls knew what she was about she had kissed
each one of them twice and was hanging on the tallest one's arm, who
happened to be Frank, laughing and crying at the same time.

Then the girls seemed to decide that she had had the lads to herself long
enough, and they immediately entered the contest, all laughing at once,
all crying at once, and all talking at once, until it was a wonder the
boys did not lose their heads entirely.

The only one who was not absolutely and completely and deliriously happy
was Betty. For the other three boys were there, but Allen had not come!

As though reading her thought, Will, who was much handsomer and more manly
than when he went away, put an arm about the Little Captain's shoulder big
brother fashion and drew her aside from the rest.

"You are wondering about Allen," he said, and Betty nodded eagerly. "You
see," continued Will, his face lighting up in a smile that would always be
boyish, "since Allen became one of the big bugs--which is another name for
officer, you understand--he had to pay the penalty and stay over there
with them for a little while longer. He will probably be over on the next
transport, although of course you can never be sure about that. Oh, and I
forgot," he put his hand in his pocket and drew forth a pocketknife, a wad
of string and--a little three-cornered note. "He asked me to give this to
you as soon as I saw you. So now you can tell him that 'I seen my duty and
I done it noble.'"

With a twinkle in his eye Will turned back to the others and Betty was
left to open her note. This is what she read:

"Gosh, some fellows do have all the luck, don't they? But never mind,
little girl. I'm coming to you by the very first boat, and when I get
there do you know what I'm going to do? Do you?"

Betty wanted to run away by herself and read the note over and over again.
But she could not do that. With a sigh she hid the little message in a
pocket of her skirt and turned back to the others.




Chapter XIX

Like Old Times



It was a long time before the boys and girls woke up to the fact that they
were still standing in the center of the road and that they might be ever
so much more comfortable on the porch of the lodge, if any one had had
sense enough to think that far.

Mrs. Irving, who had been keeping herself rather in the background during
the first rapturous greetings, now came in for her share of salutations
and boyish greetings. The young soldiers crowded about her, patting her
hands and her shoulders and telling her how awfully fine she looked and
how glad they were to find her here until the lady actually blushed with
pleasure and begged them to stop their nonsense. In fact, it was she who
finally suggested that they go up to the lodge again.

"I don't see why we didn't think of that before," said Mollie, joyfully
slipping an arm into Frank's and turning him right-about-face. "We are due
to talk all day anyway, so we might as well do it in comfort. Don't forget
the lunch basket, Betty," she called back to her chum.

Betty would have forgotten the basket and left it where it stood just as
she had dropped it at the side of the road--and small wonder if she had--
but as she stooped to pick it up, Will's strong brown hand whipped out in
front of her nose and seized the handle firmly.

"That's the idea," said Grace approvingly, adding with a sisterly pat on
his shoulder: "You run along with Amy and Mrs. Irving. I want to talk to
Betty."

So Will, being a well-trained brother, did as he was told, and Grace drew
Betty behind the others.

"What about Allen, honey?" she asked, her blue eyes honestly worried. "We
all missed him so, but we didn't like to say too much for fear--for fear--"

"He's all right," said Betty, her heart glowing again at thought of the
little note hidden away in her pocket. "He has only been delayed a little,
that's all. Will says he will probably be over on the next transport."

"Oh, I am relieved," said Grace with such fervor that Betty looked at her
quickly. Could it be, she wondered, that what she had half sensed before
could be really true? Was Grace fond of Allen? But because the idea made
her unhappy, she decided that she was just trying to think up trouble and
dismissed it from her mind. All the girls loved Allen of course--who could
help it?--but they couldn't any of them, she told herself fiercely, care
for him the way she did.

"Well, what are you thinking about? You needn't look so fierce," she heard
Grace saying, and she forced a smile to her face.

"I'm not looking fierce," Betty answered gayly. "Don't you know that that
is just my natural expression, Gracie dear? That's the way I make little
girls like you afraid of me."

"Well, I'm not afraid of you, not one little bit," asserted Grace,
squeezing Betty's arm fondly. "Oh, Betty dear, isn't it wonderful having
the boys back and don't they look fine--especially Will?"

"Don't they? Especially Will," agreed Betty with a sly little glance. "If
you don't look out you will give the impression that you're rather fond of
that worthless old brother of yours, honey."

"I love him awfully," replied Grace, adding with a little puckering of her
forehead: "But I am going to tell you something, Betty, that I wouldn't
tell to any one else for the world. I'm jealous, actually jealous! of
Amy."

Betty gave a merry little laugh and slipped an arm about her chum.

"Gracie dear, we never would have known that if you hadn't told us," she
said dryly. "Don't you know," as Grace looked at her reproachfully, "that
we have all been perfectly well aware of that ever since Will first began
to make eyes at Amy?"

"I can't help it," Grace retorted, while sudden tears sprang to her eyes.
"I've known him longer than she has, and we've loved each other ever since
he was two and I was two weeks! Did you see the way he looked at her?" she
finished dolefully.

"Yes. But of course you couldn't see the way he looked at you," said Betty
quickly. "And I did."

"Oh, did he look glad to see me? Did he?" demanded Grace with pathetic
eagerness.

"Of course he did, you little goose," said Betty, adding with a chuckle:
"You've been spoiled, that's all. You've been so used to being the
<i>only</i> pebble on the beach, dear, that you can't be content with
being just one of two."

By this time they had reached the lodge and were greeted noisily by the
others, who had already seated themselves on the porch as though they
intended to stay all day.

"Hello," called Frank. His handsome face, though somewhat thinner than the
girls remembered, was better looking than ever and he had developed a
trick of flinging the hair back from his forehead that the girls thought
immensely attractive.

Roy, who had seated himself on the railing of the porch and was swinging
his feet, looked more unchanged than either of the boys, though the girls
were soon to find out that he had changed the most.

Will, who had settled Amy in a chair and was sitting cross-legged on the
floor at her feet, was gazing up at the girl with his heart in his eyes.
As for Amy--well, the girls had never known she could look so radiant.

"Have a seat," invited Roy, rising lazily to the dignity of his six feet
as Betty and Grace came up on the porch. "It would seem like old times to
see you girls perched on the railing."

"I'll have you know, sir," said Betty very demurely, as she pulled Grace
down beside her on the top step of the porch, "that we have quite grown up
since you have been away. We will sit here where we can get a good view of
you all."

"And we want to hear about everything you have done over there," broke in
Amy eagerly. "Please, everything--right from the beginning."

The boys fidgeted, looked dismayed, and Roy burst forth in protest.

"Oh, I say!" he cried. "We'll do anything else for you, but please don't
ask us to do that."

"We don't want to talk about ourselves or the war," muttered Frank, almost
as if to himself. "We want to forget about it--if we can."

"You see," Will explained, and there was a stern note in his young voice,
"we worked and we sweated and we fought. We lived under conditions week
after week and month after month that it makes us shudder even to think of
now. For months we lived in a perfect inferno--and do you know what our
idea of heaven was then?"

They said nothing and he went on in a lighter tone.

"It was just to get back alive and, well, to God's country and you girls--
to sit for hours, days if we could, where we could look at you and listen
to you and not do a thing but just be happy. I wonder if you can
understand that?"

"Of course, we can, Will!" cried Betty, impulsively reaching over and
laying a hand on the boy's arm. "You have earned the right to sit and be
amused, and we'll do it till you cry aloud for mercy. And you needn't tell
us a single word about yourselves until you get good and ready."

"You're a brick, Betty," said Will warmly, laying his hand over her little
one. "I might have known we could count on you."

"By the way," Roy broke in suddenly, his eye on the basket of eatables
that the girls had prepared for their adventure, "what's in that hamper,
anyway? If it's anything to eat, let's have it."

Betty pulled the basket over to her, lifted the cover and passed it over
to the ravenous one.

"Eat while there is anything left," she commanded, adding with a chuckle:
"Our adventure seems to be over for to-day, at least."

"Adventure?" repeated Frank inquiringly, as he reached for a sandwich.

"Yes," said Mollie, adding with a sigh: "And you boys had to come along
just in time to spoil it all."




Chapter XX

Very Much Alive



"That is complimentary, I must say," grinned Will, getting up from his
seat on the porch and going over to join Roy on the railing. "After being
away for months we are told the minute we get back that we've 'spoiled
everything.'"

"'Tis rather hard lines," said Mollie with an answering grin. "But one must
tell the truth, you know."

"By the way," put in Grace curiously, "I know Betty promised that we
wouldn't ask questions, but there is just one thing I want to know."

"Speak, fair damsel," Roy replied, thinking meanwhile how much prettier
Grace had grown. "We will promise to answer faithfully anything that is
not connected with war."

"When did you get in?" asked Grace, "and how did you get here?"

"We came in yesterday," answered Roy, helping himself to another sandwich.
"And of course we beat it for headquarters right away."

"Yes'm, and I'll tell you we were a disappointed lot when we found that
you girls had flown," added Frank ruefully. "We were all set for a jolly
reunion--"

"But we wrote you about spending the summer here," Betty interrupted. "And
we were mourning because you couldn't be at the lodge with us."

"We missed your letters, I guess," said Will. "We sailed very suddenly,
and there is probably a stack of them piled up there at the old service
station."

"We found out where you were all rightie, though," Roy continued. "So we
took the first train out this morning, debarked at the nearest station
south of here, and proceeded to walk the rest of the way. It was thus that
you came upon us."

"You came upon us, you mean," Amy corrected. "We ought to know well
enough, because you nearly gave us heart failure."

Will looked at her as if he wanted to say something but did not quite dare
in public. However, she intercepted the look and with a little panicky
feeling turned her eyes away.

"I imagine," said Grace softly, looking up at Will, "that mother wasn't
glad to see you or anything."

"Not at all," returned Will, a soft light in his eyes as he remembered the
greeting between him and his parents. "I was a little afraid," he added
soberly, "that mother and dad wouldn't like my skipping off like this the
day after I'd got home. But they seemed to understand all right."

"Gee, but this is great," said Frank, stretching contentedly and looking
about the group with happy eyes. "I wonder how many times we've seen this
all in our dreams, fellows. Only we couldn't have imagined it half as
perfect as this."

"It sure is like old times," agreed Roy, adding with a smile as he turned
to their chaperon, who had been quietly enjoying herself: "We even have
Mrs. Irving with us. Gee, it's just like that summer at Pine Island! All
the old crowd together--"

"Except Allen," put in Will, frowning a little. "Gosh, it didn't seem
right at all to leave the old fellow behind. You wouldn't know him," he
added, his face flushing enthusiastically, "I've never seen a fellow
change the way Allen has--for the better."

"Was there so much room for improvement?" asked Betty demurely, and they
looked at her laughingly.

"Nobody would expect you to think so," Will replied, his eyes twinkling,
then added seriously:

"Of course we all know that Allen was the finest kind even before the war,
but, gosh! I wish you could just see how all the fellows love him and how
even his superior officers consult him and seem to value his judgment. I
tell you, I'm glad to have him call me his friend."

"You bet!" exclaimed Frank, nodding soberly.

"Allen sure has come out strong," Roy agreed; and at this glowing praise
of the only absent one Betty felt her heart swell with pride and she
wanted to hug the boys for being so loyal to her Allen. Also, deep down in
her heart, she began to feel a little trepidation about the homecoming of
this hero. Who was she, Betty Nelson, to call this glorious Lieutenant
Allen Washburn, <i>her</i> Allen?

So engrossed was she in these and other absorbing thoughts that it was
some time before she noticed that the conversation had taken another turn.
Also that the boys and girls were becoming rather excited.

"I didn't say it was a ghost," Mollie was declaring hotly. "In fact I have
always thought of a ghost as wearing a sheet and pillow case sort of garb.
And this thing certainly wore nothing of the sort."

"Tell us all about it," said Frank, leaning forward.

"Yes, it sounds as if it might prove interesting," added Roy.

So the girls told them all about it from that first night when they had
been so badly frightened by the "Thing" that had hidden in the shadows of
the porch. The boys listened with scarcely an interruption till they were
through.

"Gosh, I don't like the sound of that at all," said Will, when they had
finished. "It isn't a pleasant thing to have a lunatic roaming the woods
while you girls are all alone here in this place. Could you possibly put
us up for the night?" he asked, turning abruptly to Mrs. Irving.

"Why, there isn't any room," said the latter slowly, frowning a little as
she tried to think up ways and means. "There aren't any extra beds, but
there is a large settee in the living room and a couple of you can sleep
on that. I found plenty of blankets stowed away."

"Fine!" cried Will enthusiastically. "Just the very thing! One of us can
take turns sleeping on the floor. It won't be the first time we've slept
on harder things."

"Goodness, any one would think they were going to stay a month," said
Mollie in dismay.

"No, we won't stay a month," Will went on. "But we are going to stay until
we find out what it is that has been bothering you girls. Do you suppose
we would leave you unprotected here? I should say not!" Grace noticed that
when he said this his glance was first for Amy, and, afterward, for her.

So it was settled. Mrs. Irving went inside to see about getting lunch.
"Though how the boys can find any room for lunch after eating all those
sandwiches, I don't know," Amy had commented wonderingly.

Mrs. Irving had refused absolutely to let any of the girls even so much as
help with this lunch, saying they must stay outside and visit with the
boys on this momentous occasion.

"Since you are convinced that this thing is not a ghost," Will went on,
while appetizing odors began to waft toward them from the open kitchen
windows, "we will take it for granted that it is a man, and a man who has,
presumably, lost his mind."

"A crazy man," murmured Betty. "Worse and worse--and more of it."

"Girls," cried Amy, jumping suddenly to her feet, "I have an idea."

"Impossible!" drawled Grace.

"Why," went on Amy, unheeding Grace's remark and growing visibly more
excited as she talked, "you know, Professor Dempsey went crazy--or at
least we supposed he did--and ran away into the woods. Now since Will
thinks this man is crazy too, why, they may be one and the same--"

"Amy!" cried Mollie, her eyes beginning to shine as she realized the
possibility of what the girl had said. "You are a wonder, child! Why
didn't any of us think of that before?"

"Because it is rather far-fetched and absurd, I suppose," said Grace, the
suggestion of a sneer in her voice bringing a quick flush to Amy's face.

"I don't see that it is so far-fetched--or absurd either," Betty broke in
quietly. "Remember, we are only a little over fifty miles from the place
where Professor Dempsey had his cottage, and it would be easy for him to
wander this far."

Here Frank broke in on behalf of the very much mystified boys.

"Before you stage the hair-pulling contest," he said, "would you mind
telling us poor benighted males what it is all about?"

So the girls told them all about Professor Dempsey, and while they talked
the boys became more and more excited. Finally Will could keep quiet no
longer.

"Say," he asked, leaning forward, "did the two sons of the cracked old
professor happen to bear the names of James and Arnold?"

The girls gaped at him. "Yes," they breathed. "How did you know?"

"Because," said Will, "those very same fellows were in our regiment. In
fact, I was beside Arnold when he was wounded in that last engagement.
Strange thing that James was wounded at the same time."

"Wounded?" repeated Betty, who like all the girls was feeling rather dazed
at this new development. "Then they weren't killed?"

"Not a bit of it," Will replied vehemently. "Why, even their wounds
weren't serious enough to lay them up for long. The last I heard of them
they were coming over on a hospital ship and expected to be here almost as
soon as we were. For all I know, they may have landed by this time."

"Oh," said Amy, still too dazed to take it all in. "Then all this time we
have thought of them as dead, they were alive--"

"Very much so," said Will, with a grin, "and probably kicking too--just
like us!"




Chapter XXI

Out of the Dark



It took the Outdoor Girls a moment or two to digest this rather startling
information. And when it did finally seep into their consciousness, their
first feeling was one of joy for the poor professor whose sons would be
restored to him after all.

But quick on the heels of this thought came another. How could the sons be
restored to their father, if the father were nowhere to be found?

"You say the old chap skipped out, decamped?" Will broke in on their
meditations. "That sort of complicates matters, doesn't it?"

"Rather," agreed Roy, frowning. "It is going to be rather tough on those
fellows, James and Arnold, to come home, expecting to be welcomed by a
rejoicing parent, only to find said parent missing."

"Humph, that's the first time I've thought of the boys' side of it," said
Betty. "We have been too much occupied right along in being sorry for the
poor old professor."

"Well, if you had known the boys, you would have thought of their side of
it all right," said Frank seriously. "They are mighty good scouts, both of
them, and they think a lot of their old dad, too, I can tell you. Why,
many a night"--his voice took on a reminiscent note and the girls felt
once again that they were privileged in having a brief glimpse of the life
"over there"--"when a surprise attack was scheduled for the next morning
or we were waiting for some such manoeuvre from the enemy, Arnold would
talk to me about his dad--that was the time when fellows got chummy, you
know, and got to know each other's souls--and once he gave me a note for
the old chap and asked me to deliver it if I came through and he didn't. I
think I have it about me somewhere." He fumbled about in his pockets while
the girls waited silently.

Presently he drew forth a little slip of paper, muddy and worn and
dust-stained from being carried about for a long, long time in a khaki
pocket.

"He told me," Frank went on, still holding the slip of paper in his hand
but making no attempt to open it, "that his mother had died when he and
Jimmy were young and that since then his dad had been father and mother
both to them and that he had worked himself nearly to death to give them a
chance for the college education that he had had. He said that the one
thing that had always threatened to floor the old boy was when either he
or Jim got mad and threatened to give up school and go to work so as to
take some of the load from the old pater's shoulders. So they were glad,
actually glad, when the war came along and gave them a chance not only to
serve their country and earn some money--even if it was only a miserable
pittance--so that they could send some home to their dad and feel that
they had stopped being a drag upon him. He used to tell me," Frank went
on, for the spell of those old thrilling times was strong upon him again,
"with tears in his eyes--and I'll tell you there was no braver man in all
the American army than Arnold Dempsey; he was good for two Boches any day
--that it would be the happiest moment of his life when he got back to the
old country and announced to his proud and admiring pater that he had come
home to turn the tables; that Jimmy and he were going to make the old
fellow take a rest and do the work themselves for a change. And he asked
me, in case anything did happen to him and Jimmy, to be kind to his dad
and try to make up to him as much as I could. I gave him my promise that
night." Frank looked about the intent group of faces soberly. "In case the
boys had been killed, I would have regarded it as a sacred trust."

Something swelled in the girls' hearts and for; a moment they could not
speak. Then,

"I guess we all love you for that, Frank," said Betty simply. With a
little nod of her head toward the slip of paper he still held, she added:
"What about that--now?"

Frank looked down at the slip of paper for a moment uncomprehendingly, for
his thoughts had been far away.

"Oh, the note," he said. "Why, that was only to be given to his father in
case anything happened, you know. But now that the boys are coming back to
him themselves, I suppose the thing is worthless." He made a motion as
though to tear the note up, but Grace stopped him with a quick
exclamation.

"Don't!" she cried, adding as they all looked at her in surprise: "Don't
you suppose there might be something in it that would give us a clue to
the professor's whereabouts now, perhaps? Don't you think it would be wise
to look, at least?"

But Frank slowly shook his head.

"Arnold Dempsey's message, written to his dad when he thought he might
never see him again, doesn't belong to us," he said decidedly. "The note
was given in trust to me, and since I can't deliver it--or at least, since
there is now no reason for delivering it--the only thing I can honorably
do is this." And very slowly and very decidedly he tore the note into
little bits and threw the pieces among the wild roses at the side of the
porch.

It was the first real glimpse the girls had had of the man who had come
back in the old Frank's place, and with all their hearts they admired him.

Even Grace, who had seemed inclined to pout a little, could not but admit
that the action was splendid in him.

"And now," said Will, "after all that, the boys will come back to find
their dad gone, heaven knows where, dead perhaps--"

"Oh, I wonder if there isn't some way we can follow him and find out at
least what has happened to him?" broke in Amy earnestly. "It seems
dreadful just to sit back and not even try to help."

"I don't see what we can do," said Will judicially, just as Mrs. Irving
appeared in the doorway. "We will postpone the discussion for the present
anyway," he added, in a different tone, rising with alacrity and dusting
off his uniform. "Something tells me that lunch is waiting. Come, let us
eat!"

So ended all serious discussion for that day, and the girls and boys gave
themselves up to the delight of being together again. Only Betty's
thoughts seemed to wander at times and she had to be brought back by
sundry mischievous and significant remarks from the young folks.

Worn out with fun, the young soldiers slept like tops that night in their
improvised beds and rose the next morning professing to feel like "two
year olds" and ready for whatever new fun and adventure the day might
bring them.

And for the first night since their arrival at Wild Rose Lodge the girls
slept soundly without being bothered by the haunting fear of the "Thing"--
at least, so they said.

That day they wandered through the woods together, searching for some sign
of their strange visitor, but found not a trace of anything unusual and
alarming.

"I'm really beginning to believe that you girls have let your imaginations
run away from you," Will remarked, when they sat about the living-room
after a satisfying supper, just luxuriating in idleness.

"Or perhaps the gentleman has been frightened away by our coming," Roy
suggested in a superior tone that made the girls want to throw something
at him. "Perhaps he is afraid of the uniform of the U.S.A."

"He may be afraid of the uniform," sniffed Mollie scathingly. "But he
certainly couldn't be afraid of <i>you</i>."

"Now you don't mean that, you know you don't," laughed Roy, drawing her
down beside him on the couch and holding her there with an iron grip of
his brown fingers. "Say you didn't, like a pretty little girl, and I'll
let you go."

"I won't say any such--" Mollie began, then suddenly her gaze stiffened
into such a stare of wonder, and even alarm, that it made the girls fairly
hold their breath.

"Mollie, what is it?" demanded Roy commandingly.

"Over there!" she shrieked. "At the window, Roy! Do you see it?"




Chapter XXII

Tragedy



There, pressed so close to the pane of the window that the nose was
flattened grotesquely, eyes wildly staring, hair disheveled, was a face
that even in that tense moment the girls recognized--the face of Professor
Dempsey!

It took the boys perhaps a second to fling out of the room, jump down the
steps of the porch and circle the house to the window.

And yet, in that second, the man was gone, leaving no more trace than if
the earth had opened and swallowed him up. For almost an hour the boys
searched the woods about the lodge, refusing to allow the girls to
accompany them, saying truly that they would hamper them more than they
could help.

"You see, I was right after all," Amy stated for at least the tenth time.
"From the moment the idea came to me, I felt almost sure that poor crazy
Professor Dempsey was this thing that was frightening us."

"But did you ever see such an awful face in all your life?" said Mollie,
shuddering at the recollection.

"And the look in his eyes as he stared at Roy," Grace added in a hushed
voice. "I shouldn't wonder if--if we hadn't been there, he might have
murdered him."

"Oh, Gracie, don't!" Amy clapped her hands to her ears. "We are frightened
enough without having you say things like that"

"Suppose," said Mollie, in a sepulchral voice, "he should come back before
the boys do?"

"That's just what I was thinking," said a quiet voice behind them, and
they jumped and cried out in alarm. The next moment they saw it was Mrs.
Irving and felt ashamed of themselves.

"I think you had all better come into the house till the boys come back,"
their chaperon continued. "I shall feel safer when we are behind locked
doors."

The girls shivered, but Mollie protested.

"Suppose anything should happen to the boys?" she asked, but here Mrs.
Irving chose to exercise her authority.

"We will talk about that when we are inside the house," she said very
firmly, and Mollie had nothing else to do but obey.

The girls did breathe a little more freely when the door was locked, but
they found themselves wishing even more ardently that the boys would come
back.

The window against which the horribly distorted face had been pressed
seemed to hold a peculiar fascination for the Outdoor Girls and they found
themselves unable to turn their eyes away from it.

"Oh, I wish the boys would come back," moaned Amy, after a few moments
more had passed in strained silence. "If anything should happen to them
I'm sure I would die."

"Nonsense, Amy," snapped Mollie. "What could one little mad old man do to
three big husky soldier boys?"

The words had hardly been spoken when the sound of voices could be heard
coming toward the house, and a moment later the boys themselves stamped up
on the porch.

"Not a sign of him," said Will in response to the girls' eager questions.
"I don't see how he could have disappeared so completely in such a short
time."

"We all took different directions, too," said Roy, taking a seat on the
couch again and staring fascinatedly at the window. "If all the rest of
you hadn't seen it too, I should certainly think I had been mistaken."

"You weren't mistaken," Mollie assured him grimly. "I can vouch for that."

"Didn't one of you girls call out something about Professor Dempsey?"
asked Frank, abruptly.

"Yes," said Betty, going over to him and putting an excited hand on his
shoulder. "That's the thing that startled us so, Frank. We are sure it was
Professor Dempsey's face. But, still, it was so wild and distorted that we
really wouldn't feel like contradicting any one who told us it wasn't he,"
she added slowly. "Do you understand what I mean?"

Frank nodded, and Will broke in excitedly:

"But the poor old codger's looks would naturally be changed," he argued,
"after he had spent all this time wandering around the woods--out of his
mind at that. I am inclined to think that the girls are right and that it
is really Professor Dempsey."

"If only I could have gotten my hands on him!" mourned Roy. "We wouldn't
have been in any further doubt."

"There is really no doubt, boys. We just want--oh, I don't know what we
want!" exclaimed Mollie, who was excited and unstrung and nervous.

Soon after that they all went to bed, having first decided to make a more
thorough search of the woods in the morning and take the postponed trip to
the head of the falls.

They slept fitfully and were glad when at last they woke to find the sun
shining in their windows. For once Amy and Grace did not have to be coaxed
or wheedled or forced to get out of bed, but dressed quickly and were
ready almost as soon as Mollie and Betty.

"You know I rather hated to leave the boys in that room last night," Betty
confided to Grace, stopping before the mirror for one final little pat of
her hair. "I was afraid that--he--might come back--"

"Oh, Betty, what a horrid idea," said Grace. "Come on, let's see if
everything is all right."

But they found that their fears had been wasted. The boys were in the
kitchen hilariously helping Mrs. Irving get the breakfast to the
accompaniment of continual good-natured scolding from that flushed and
perspiring lady. It was Amy's day to get the breakfast, but, as usual, she
was late in getting down.

"You make a good deal more trouble than you mend," Mrs. Irving was saying
as the girls came to the door, then added relievedly as she caught sight
of them: "For goodness' sake, get these young ruffians out of the kitchen,
my dears, or we'll not have any breakfast until noon."

So amid much fun and nonsense the boys were shooed forth into the bright
sunshine of the out-of-doors, and all the girls fell to to help their
chaperon, not wanting to put the extra work the boys made entirely on
Amy's shoulders.

Breakfast was good, but they ate hurriedly, anxious to get at the business
of the day. They wanted more than they had wanted anything in a very long
time to find Professor Dempsey and tell him the joyful news that his sons
were alive.

"I'm horribly afraid of him at night," Mollie confided, as they started
out at last, "but in the daytime I am only sorry for him."

"Do you think we shall find him, Will?" asked Amy, with a helpless little
look into Will's self-reliant young face. "I do want to so much."

Will looked down at her with an expression that said to any one who would
read it: "I would give you anything in the world you asked for, if I only
could."

But all he really said was: "That remains to be seen. He proved himself a
rather slippery customer last night, and the chase we put up may only
serve to put him on his guard. Crazy people are tricky, you know."

"Goodness," said Grace, looking fearfully over her shoulder. "There is
nothing in the world I am so afraid of as a crazy person."

"That's why she has always been so afraid of me, I suppose," grinned
Mollie.

"Afraid of you," said Grace, her eyebrows raised in mock surprise. "Little
shrimp--who are you?"  There followed a characteristic scene that somewhat
lifted the oppression they had all been feeling, and it was not till they
had nearly reached the river at the head of the falls that they became
serious again.

"It was right about here," said Betty soberly, "that we saw him the night
that he started to jump into the river--or I suppose it was the same one,"
she added.

"Let us hope so," said Mollie fervently. "I wouldn't like to think that
there were two lunatics wandering round these woods. One is quite enough."

As they came closer to the river they became more and more conscious that
they were not alone, that some one, hidden in the bushes, was craftily
watching them.

So strong did this feeling finally become that once the boys separated,
thrashing the bushes in all directions. They did not find anything, and
finally continued along the path, a little ashamed of what they thought
was an attack of nerves.

"Phew, this is getting a little hot for me," said Frank, running his hand
through his shock of fair hair. "I don't mind fighting anything in the
open--" He left the sentence unfinished, for at that moment they broke
through the bushes at the river's edge upon a sight that struck them
speechless.

Not twenty yards down the bank stood a ragged scarecrow of a man, so
unkempt, so wild, so abandoned in its crouching attitude as to appear
hardly human.

Before they had time to utter a word or move a muscle, the man threw up
his arms in a gesture indescribably terrible, and with a hoarse shout
disappeared in the swirling waters.

It all happened so quickly that for the space of a dazed second they
wondered if they had really seen it at all. Then they recovered their
powers of motion and rushed to the spot where the man had disappeared.

Though they leaned far out over the water they could see no sign of
anything human, and with a creeping feeling of horror they began to speak
of what had probably already happened.

"It's certain death down there," Roy muttered, as though to himself,
gazing into the rushing river. "The poor old fellow! He has got his, I
guess."

"Look here, fellows, here are some clothes," Will called out suddenly, and
the boys rushed over to where he stood, a tattered old hat and an equally
ragged coat in his hands. "Maybe there will be something in the jacket to
tell us where the poor fellow has been staying and what he has been up
to."

They searched through the coat and finally pulled out a wallet.

"Now if it only has some writing in it," said Mollie breathlessly.

There was a card, and the card bore the words which they expected, yet
dreaded, Arnold Dempsey, Ph. D. But there was nothing else, and suddenly
tears dimmed their eyes and they had to turn away.

"It will be mighty hard on Jimmy and Arnold," muttered Roy, gazing
somberly at the fast-flowing river. "To have their dad go that way!
They'll take it mighty hard--those boys."




Chapter XXIII

A Moonlight Apparition



"Let's look around a little anyway," Betty suggested. "He may possibly
have been swept up on the shore farther down the river."

"If such a thing were possible he would probably be dead anyway," Frank
protested, but the girls paid no attention to him. The mere suggestion
that the professor might still be alive and in need of assistance was
enough for them, and they set about feverishly to scour the woods on both
sides of the river and for a considerable distance down its shores.

After an hour of vain search, however, they were forced to conclude that
the old man was indeed dead, and so reluctantly and with heavy hearts they
turned their steps back toward Wild Rose Lodge.

They talked very little on the way back, for they were too occupied with
their own gloomy thoughts. Only once Betty spoke what was in the minds of
all of them.

"It seems such a terrible waste--such a pity," she said. "Just a mistake
on the part of the Government to have resulted in this tragedy. Arnold and
James Dempsey coming home, safe and well and hopeful to find their father
--dead!"

The boys stayed on for several days at the lodge, and for all the Outdoor
Girls but Betty their stay was unmitigated joy. But in the heart of the
Little Captain, hard as she tried to fight against it, was a little sense
of injury to think that her chums had got their boys back and she had been
denied hers.

To be sure, all the boys made much of her and petted her--for there was
not one of them who had not competed for her favor in the old days before
Allen had shouldered them all out--but no amount of attention from any one
else could make up for one little word from Allen.

At each sunrise she awoke thrilling with the thought that perhaps Allen
would be with her before the sun went down. And as each evening came
without him she sighed and thought, "Perhaps to-morrow."

Since the tragic death of Professor Dempsey they felt that they need no
longer fear the woods, although they never ventured near the river or the
falls without a heartache and the fervent wish that they might have
reached the poor demented man with the glad news of his sons' safety in
time to avert the tragedy.

However, they did enjoy their liberty, and took long tramps with the boys
through the woods and picnicked with them beside little unexpected brooks
and streams, quite in the nature of old days.

Then at last came the day when the boys announced that they would have to
return to town and to the military camp to obtain their formal discharge
from the army.

"We may surprise you by coming back in 'civies' a week or two from now,"
Will laughed, as the girls prepared to spin them to the railroad station
in the cars. "So you had better be prepared for the shock."

"Maybe they won't care for us any more when they see us out of uniform,"
grinned Roy, as he shook hands with Mrs. Irving. "You know the old saying
that a uniform has made many a hero of a bootblack."

"Goodness, I hope you aren't a bootblack," said Mollie from her car, where
she was "doing things" with the engine.

"I'm not," answered Roy, adding with a grin, "Nothing half so honest."

Although the girls knew that they were only saying good-bye to the boys
for a few days, the parting was hard just the same, and half an hour later
they watched the train wind serpent-like down the shining track with a
sinking feeling at their hearts.

"Aren't we a lot of geese?" said Grace impatiently, as they climbed back
into the cars. "We have done without the boys for a couple of years, and
now when they have just gone as far as Deepdale for a couple of weeks, we
are almost crying about it."

"I suppose it is just because we have had so much separation that we can't
bear any more of it--even a little," suggested gentle Amy, feeling as if
she had just awakened from a blissful dream.

"Never mind," said Mollie, putting an arm about Betty's waist and giving
it a little squeeze. "Just think how lovely it will be to see the boys in
regular clothes again, and maybe," with a sly glance at Betty, "by the
time they come back they will have added one to their number."

"Goodness, I hope so!" said Betty, unashamed.

In spite of some regret at not having the boys, the girls managed to enjoy
themselves in the days that followed. They motored and swam and fished and
hiked, and got as becomingly sun-burned and tanned as young Indians. It
was not until two or three days before the boys returned that anything
untoward happened to disturb their peace of mind.

Then one night the moon came out with such dazzling brilliance that Betty
was seized with a strong desire to be out in it.

"Let's go for a moonlight swim," she suggested excitedly, as they all
stood on the porch of the lodge staring up through the trees to where the
moon shone glitteringly down. "We haven't done it since we came, and
surely our vacation wouldn't be complete without one."

"Or more," said Mollie, seconding the plan with enthusiasm. "Come on.
Let's tell Mrs. Irving where we are going. Maybe she will wish to go
along, but I doubt it."

Mollie was right: Mrs. Irving did not wish to go, and the girls rushed
upstairs to don bathing suits in preparation for the lark.

A few minutes later they were racing like slim young ghosts through the
woods, laughing and calling to each other and entirely abandoned to the
joy of the moment.

"Race you to the old swimming hole," Mollie called out, as they neared the
river; and away they all raced in response to the challenge.

Betty won, in spite of the fact that Mollie had had a short head start,
and the girls, wild in their exuberance, would have lifted her to their
shoulders had not Betty herself laughingly fought them off.

"I have another challenge," she cried. "My fresh box of candy to whoever
swims to the other side of the swimming hole first. Are you on?"

"We're on!" yelled Grace enthusiastically, adding: "I'd swim from here to
Jericho for that box of candy, Betty."

As a matter of fact, whether it was really the thought of the candy or
whether it was because the other girls were tired from the last spurt,
Grace really did get to the other side of the swimming pool first, and,
pulling herself up on the other bank, dripping and triumphant, demanded
the prize.

"You surely did win it, and you shall have that box of candy--much as I
hoped to keep it in the family," laughed Betty, shaking the water from her
eyes and drawing herself up beside her chum. "Goodness, isn't that water
delicious to-night?" she added, wriggling her toes luxuriously in the
rippling wavelets. "Just cool enough to be refreshing and not cold enough
to chill you----" She broke off suddenly and sat staring, her eyes
widening and her body tense.

"Girls," she said in a queer voice, for Mollie and Amy had also drawn
themselves up on the bank, "have I gone crazy, or what is the matter with
me? Do you see--what--I see--up there?"

Alarmed, the girls followed the direction of her strained gaze, and
suddenly they seemed to feel themselves congeal with momentary horror.

Far above them on the bank near the falls and on the other side of the
river, stood the crouched-up, animal-like figure of--the "Thing!"




Chapter XXIV

Recovered



The sight was almost too much for the girls. What they felt was sheer
animal panic and they wanted to run away--anywhere--just so they put
distance enough between them and that figure on the bank.

"Sit still," Betty commanded them, recovering her presence of mind. "That
is Professor Dempsey up there, and if we make any sudden sound we are sure
of frightening him away."

"But he was killed--we saw it," moaned Amy. "That must be his g-ghost."

"Don't be ridiculous," snapped Mollie, her thoughts working along with
Betty's. "You know you don't believe in ghosts."

"But how----" Amy was beginning when Betty interrupted sharply.

"Listen," she said. "I came across an old derelict of a rowboat the other
day when we were exploring the upper river, but I didn't say anything to
you girls about it because I thought it was too much of a wreck to bother
with. For all I know it isn't even water tight--"

"Betty," Mollie broke in excitedly, "I see what you mean! We can row
across the upper river to where Professor Dempsey is--Were there oars in
the boat?" she broke off to ask.

"A couple of old sticks that would serve for oars," Betty answered. "Of
course it's taking a big chance--"

"Say no more," cried Mollie, jumping to her feet and wringing out her
bathing suit. "Big chance is our middle name anyway. Lead on, Betty. Where
do we find this craft?"

"I'm not quite sure that I can find it," said Betty, leading the way into
the woods, "but it was down this way somewhere. Don't make any noise,
girls, and let's hurry, or we won't get there before he disappears again."

Grace and Amy were now entering into the spirit of the thing, and they
followed at Betty's heels eagerly, careful not to step on stick or stone
that might betray their presence.

Luckily Betty managed to stumble directly on the old derelict rowboat
where it lay in ancient helplessness in the concealment of a thick grove
of bushes along the upper reach of the stream.

"Goody! This is almost too much luck," cried Betty exultantly. "You get in
the stern, Amy, and Grace in the bow. Mollie and I will do the rowing."

"I only hope the old thing doesn't take in too much water," said Amy, as
she and Grace got gingerly into the rickety old craft and Betty and Mollie
pushed it off from the shore.

"That remains to be seen," answered the Little Captain as she handed one
of the ancient oars to Mollie. "There is one thing we shall have to
remember, Mollie," she said, as they pushed clear of the bank and glided
out into the swift water of the river, "and that is to keep far enough
this side of the falls to guard against being swept over it. Bear hard on
your right hand, Mollie honey. It wouldn't be much fun if we upset here,
you know."

"Oh!" gasped Grace, holding fast to the side of the boat and noting with
dismay how plainly the roar of the falls came to them. "I wish we had
another oar, I'd help----"

"You can help most, Grade," cut in the Little Captain briskly, "by keeping
your nerve and helping us to keep ours. Mollie," she called in a whisper
that carried the length of the boat, "can you see--It--yet?"

"Yes," Mollie telegraphed back in the same tense whisper. "It's got its
back to us, I think."

"Good," said Betty softly, adding as she threw all her weight against her
oar, "now let's keep still and work."

It was queer how they referred to that presence at the head of the falls
as "It." Some way, in the weird moonlight, under the more than unusual
circumstances, it seemed almost impossible to give the thing a name.

"Was it Professor Dempsey?" they kept asking themselves over and over
again. But he had committed suicide. Or at least they had seen him fall
into the river, and they could have vowed that he did not come out again.
They had searched both sides of the river. How could they have missed him?
And yet, if that motionless figure at the head of the falls was really
Professor Dempsey, he must have been washed ashore that day and evaded
them as he had succeeded in evading them so many times before.

And all the time the roar of the falls was growing louder and louder in
their ears and they knew that theirs was a race with life and death.

Could they succeed in reaching the opposite bank before the deadly current
of the river should suck them over the falls, to almost certain
annihilation?

The answer to the question came a moment: later when, without warning, the
prow of the little boat struck on an unexpected projection of the shore
and they came to a standstill.

"Thank heaven!" said Betty under her breath as Mollie jumped out and
pulled the craft further in to shore. "That was nearly the riskiest thing
you ever did, Betty Nelson."

Once on shore again, the girls' confidence returned and they hurried
silently through the woods toward the spot where they had seen the figure.
Then Betty, who had taken the lead, suddenly motioned to them to stop.

She had caught a glimpse through the trees of the man, who resembled more
than ever a scarecrow in his crazy makeshift garments--and at the sight of
him her heart unaccountably skipped a beat.

Her thoughts had not gone beyond this moment. Strangely enough all her
energy had been concentrated upon reaching the man before he disappeared.
But now that they had succeeded so far she was at a loss what to do next.

But at that moment she inadvertently stepped on a dry twig that snapped
sharply under her foot, and at the sound the man had turned fiercely, like
an animal at bay. Then he wheeled about and made as though to flee for the
shelter of the woods.

In this emergency Betty followed impulse. She ran out into the open,
calling to him wildly that his sons were alive. Not to run away, because
his sons were safe and well. They were coming to him----

The pitiful wreck of a man paused in his flight as the import of the words
seemed to sink into his befuddled brain, but he turned upon the Little
Captain a look of ferocious hatred that would have terrified a less
courageous girl than Betty. But her whole heart was in her mission, and
she had utterly forgotten herself.

"Won't you please believe me?" she said, advancing toward him, hands
outstretched pleadingly. "I know what I'm talking about. Your sons, Arnold
and Jimmy----"

As though the names of his boys had released some cord in his brain, the
man cried out hoarsely:

"Jimmy and Arnold--my sons, my little boys!" Then, turning fiercely to
Betty, he cried: "You're not lying to me, are you? Because I'll throw you
into the river! I'll cut you into little pieces!"

As the man advanced menacingly, Grace screamed and Mollie ran forward with
some wild idea of protecting her chum, but Betty waved them back.

"I'm not lying to you," she told the crazy man, looking straight into his
glaring eyes. "Your boys were wounded, but not seriously, and they sailed
a few days ago for this country on a hospital ship. They want to see you
more than anything else in the world," she added, playing on the sudden
softness that had crept into his wild eyes. "And they sent their love to
their dad."

At sound of the old loving name all the fight went out of the old man and
he sank to his knees on the grass, sobbing horribly.

They let him alone for a moment, then Betty motioned to Mollie, and
together they lifted him to his feet. The sight of his tear-stained,
unkempt old face, creased and lined with suffering, but with the wildness
gone out of the eyes, stirred a profound pity in the girls and they wished
more than anything in the world to make him happy again.

"We are going to take you home, Professor Dempsey," Betty told him
soothingly, as with Mollie's help she half led, half carried, him through
the woods toward the spot where they had left the boat, Amy and Grace
following awed and silent behind them. "And as soon as your boys reach
home we will bring them to you. Be careful of this big rock. Ah, here's
the boat." And talking all the time, softly and soothingly as one would to
a child, Betty at last succeeded in seating the derelict old man in the
equally derelict old boat.

The girls tumbled in after him, and with a prayer in her heart Betty
pushed off from shore.

That ride back across the river was as weird and unreal as any nightmare
the girls had ever lived through. Their queer passenger, seeming the most
unreal of all, was quiet for the most part but occasionally he would sit
up and look about him wildly and could only be soothed back to reason by
Betty's sweet voice telling him of his boys--Jimmy and Arnold.

Somehow they reached the opposite shore, and, after pulling the boat up
among the bushes once more, they started back, the old man with them, to
Wild Rose Lodge.




Chapter XXV

The Old Crowd Again



Mrs. Irving, who had been worried by their prolonged absence, met the
girls at the door as they stumbled with the almost exhausted old man up
the steps of the porch.

At sight of the latter she grew deathly pale, and leaned against the door
for support. She felt that all the world was growing black----

"Oh, please, please don't faint!" she heard Betty's young voice calling to
her desperately as it seemed from a long distance. "We've depended upon
you to help us."

With a great effort she fought off the dizziness and drew herself away
from Betty's supporting arm.

"It's all right," she said dazedly. "The shock, I guess. Betty what--who--
is that----"

"Oh, please don't ask any questions now," Betty begged feverishly. "Just
help us, and we will tell you all about it later. This is Professor
Dempsey," she added, turning to the broken old man who stood staring at
them uncomprehendingly. "He can have Mollie's and my room, can't he, Mrs.
Irving? and we will bunk somewhere else."

Mrs. Irving nodded automatically, still too dazed by the suddenness of the
thing even to think, and they helped the old man into Betty's room and
laid him on the bed. The tired, ragged, unkempt old head had hardly
touched the pillow before its owner had sunk into a heavy sleep.

For a moment the girls were startled, for it almost seemed as though he
were dead, but Betty put her hand on the ragged old shirt above the heart
and found that the action was strong and regular.

"Perhaps it is the very best thing that could happen to him," she said
softly, and, laying a light cover over him, tip-toed from the room,
followed quietly by Mrs. Irving and the other girls.

Once in the other room, with the need for action over, the girls felt weak
and spent, and it was only then that they realized that they had been
through a terrible ordeal.

In broken sentences they told Mrs. Irving all that had happened and as she
listened she more and more appalled at the risk they had run and the
danger they had gone through.

"Girls, girls," she cried when they had finished, "I was half wild about
you as it was. But if I had known the truth I think I should have gone
crazy. Just the same," she added and her eyes shone with pride in them,
"it was a glorious thing for you to do--an unselfish, wonderfully
courageous thing. I'm proud of you!"

In spite of the fact that they were tired out, the girls insisted upon
standing watch and watch that night. They felt that some one should be
with Professor Dempsey all the time in case he should wake in the night
with his old madness upon him.  It was the longest night any of them had
ever spent, and the morning dawned upon a hollow-eyed, worn-out set of
Outdoor Girls.

"I never," said Betty, looking around at her white-faced chums wearily,
"spent such a terrible night in my life. How is the patient?" she added,
taking up the subject that had not left their minds for a minute. "Who was
in there last?"

"I," said Grace, brushing out her hair, listlessly. "He is still asleep."

That report continued good all morning, and it was almost noon before the
ragged, unbelievably unkempt old man on the bed opened his eyes.

The girls had been looking forward to, yet dreading, this minute. It had
been decided that only one of them should be in the room with him when he
awoke, but the rest were hovering close to the door ready to give
assistance if it should become necessary.

But they need not have worried. The magic of his long sleep, together with
the glad news he had heard the night before, seemed to have transformed
the man overnight to his old gentle self.

To be sure, he was amazed at his strange surroundings, and looked
uncomprehendingly into Betty's face as she bent compassionately over him.
But all he said was:

"I declare, this is all very strange, young lady--very strange. Would you
mind--er--telling me where I am?"

At the tone, even more than the words, the girls felt a wild desire to
shout aloud their relief. For the tone was the same, gentle, polite one
that they remembered hearing that day when the little man had entertained
them in his cabin in the woods.

Then Betty, as gently as she knew how, told him a little of what had
happened to him, and the girls could see by the surprise on his face that
he had no recollection whatever of the matters of which she was speaking.

"I declare it is most strange--most strange," he declared when she had
finished, adding as he looked down and plucked distastefully at his
tattered shirt: "And this is the result of my--er--temporary aberration,
is it? Ah, but I remember," he sat up suddenly, a gleam of fear in his
eyes. "It was when I read of the death of my boys. Something snapped in my
brain, I think. You say"--he turned to Betty, grasping her hand
imploringly--"you say that my sons are well--that they are coming to me?"

"Yes," said Betty soothingly, pressing him back upon the pillow. "They are
well and safe and will be with you soon--in a few days, perhaps."

"Ah," said the little man, submitting to Betty's touch, a happy smile on
his lips, "that is good. That is very--very--good--" and with a sigh like
a tired child's, he fell asleep again!

"Did you hear what he said?" whispered Betty, her eyes shining as she
tip-toed from the room, closed the door softly behind her and faced her
awed and incredulous chums. "He's well, girls. He's completely sane
again."

"It's a miracle," said Mollie breathlessly.

And so it came to pass that some little time later four good-looking young
fellows, recently in the service of the greatest country on the earth, and
one of them still wearing his regimentals, saw a rather unexpected sight
as they swung down the path toward Wild Rose Lodge.

On the porch sat an elderly, contented looking man, clad in garments that
would easily have accommodated two men of his size--garments belonging to
Mollie's Uncle John, and seated about him in attitudes of lazy comfort
were four young girls.

These young girls--who were, at least from the standpoint of the four
young men, exceedingly good to look upon, were engaged in doing some sort
of fancy work. All but one of them, that is; for the fourth, a girl with
wavy brown hair and bright brown eyes, pink cheeks, and a dream of a
mouth, was reading to the elderly man who sat in the chair of state.

"Gee, Allen," whispered one of the tall youths to the one who still wore
the uniform of his country's service, "I feel as though we were crabbing
your act. Can't we fellows do the disappearing act----"

But just at the moment the girl with the brown eyes and the pink cheeks
looked up, gave one little startled cry, and dropped the book to the
porch.

The other girls looked up and then followed a scene that very nearly made
the temporarily forgotten and neglected old man on the porch drop out of
his chair in surprise.

"Allen!" screamed the girls, all except the brown-haired, pink-cheeked
one, who, for some unaccountable reason hung back behind the others. "You
perfect angel!"

"Why didn't you let us know you were coming so that we could have been
prepared?"

"Oh, isn't your uniform lovely!"

"And look at the dressed-up leggings!"

These and various other exclamations like them, coupled to the fact that
all the girls, except the one that he wanted to most, had kissed him,
rather overwhelmed young Lieutenant Washburn and took his breath away.

His three companions, however, finding themselves neglected and out in the
cold, interfered at this point and saved his life.

"Betty, what are you hiding away back there for?" cried Mollie to the
Little Captain, whose cheeks were pinker than ever and whose eyes were
shining very brightly with a sort of mixture of joy and fright. "Don't you
know Allen in his uniform?"

"Aren't you going to kiss him?" chimed in Grace wickedly.

"We all did," added Amy.

But Betty had no intention of kissing Allen, although he begged her to
with his laughing eyes and she continued backing into the doorway, until
Mrs. Irving, coming up behind her, caught her up and pushed her out upon
the porch again.

However, the chaperon monopolized Allen for a few minutes and gave Betty
time to catch her breath. She found Mollie introducing Professor Dempsey
to the astonished boys. These young soldiers wanted to ask a hundred
questions, but, catching a warning look from Betty, decided to wait till
later, when the little man himself was not present.

Frank, who was perhaps more glad than any of them to see the father of his
chums alive and well, settled himself near the man and began to pour into
his starved and eager ears news of his sons and tales of adventures in
which they had figured.

And while Betty was still smiling in sympathy with the look of absolute
happiness on Professor Dempsey's face, Allen dragged himself away from the
group of his admirers and came over to her.

Boldly he pulled her hand through his arm and led her past the laughing
boys and girls, down the steps, and along the path that led into the
woods.

"Be back in time for supper," Will called after them. "Something tells me
we are going to have some feed."

"Oh, don't bother them," they heard Mollie's voice in laughing reproof.
"Remember, you were young yourself, once!"

"And now," said Allen, when they had gone just far enough for the trees
and bushes to screen them from the view of the people on the porch, "I
want you to look at me, Betty. You haven't yet, you know."

"I c-can't," said Betty in a muffled voice. "I guess--" she added
whimsically, "I guess I'm a little afraid of you, Lieutenant Allen
Washburn."

With a glad laugh Allen put his strong young arms about her.

"Do you think you can keep on all your life being afraid of me--like
that?" he asked. "Little Betty?"

And Betty, with the radiant joy of all youth in her heart, slowly nodded.

       *        *        *        *        *

And what glorious days followed! The young folks never tired of their
tramps through the woods and walks in the vicinity of Moonlight Falls.
They gave themselves up to a good time and had it in full measure.

"Gee, what an improvement over the trenches in France!" remarked Will one
day. "No more wars for me!"

"So say we all of us!" sang out Frank.

When they had to return to Deepdale the boys took Professor Dempsey with
them and Frank saw to it that the old man was made comfortable until his
wounded sons returned to him. Both of the hurt soldiers were recovering,
and the reunion of father and sons was most affecting.

"Now for a final swim below the falls!" cried Mollie one day, when the
outing was coming to an end.

"We ought to have a good time--now there is no ghost to disturb us," put
in Amy.

"A chocolate for the first one to enter the water!" exclaimed Grace,
waving her ever-present candy box in the air.

"That settles it--I'm off!" burst out Betty; and then all made a wild dash
for the swimming pool. And here let us say good-bye to the Outdoor Girls.



THE END





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Outdoor Girls at Wild Rose Lodge
by Laura Lee Hope





Produced by Michelle Shephard, Charles Franks
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.




JACK HARKAWAY
AND HIS SON'S
ESCAPE FROM THE BRIGANDS
OF GREECE.

BEING THE CONTINUATION OF
"JACK HARKAWAY AND HIS
SON'S ADVENTURES IN GREECE."

BY
BRACEBRIDGE HEMYNG


[Illustration: Bother the beggars"--said Mr Mole"--Adv in Greece, Vol
II--_Frontispiece_]




CHAPTER I.

THE CONTESSA'S LETTER TO MR. MOLE--ON PLEASURE BENT--THE
MENDICANT FRIAR--MIDNIGHT MARAUDERS--HOUSE BREAKING.


When Mrs. Harkaway's maid returned to the villa, she got scolded for
being so long upon an errand of some importance with which she had been
entrusted.

Thereupon, she was prepared with twenty excuses, all of which were any
thing but the truth.

The words of warning which the brigand had called after her had not
been without their due effect.

"She had been detained," she said, "by the Contessa Maraviglia for the
letter which she brought back to Mr. Mole."

The letter was an invitation to a grand ball which was to be given by
the contessa at the Palazzo Maraviglia, and to which the Harkaways were
going.

Dick Harvey had been at work in this business, and had made the
contessa believe indirectly that Mr. Mole was a most graceful dancer,
and that it would be an eternal shame for a _bal masqué_ to take
place in the neighbourhood without being graced by his--Mole's--
presence.

The result was that during lunch Mr. Mole received from the maid the
following singular effusion.

"Al Illustrissimo Signor Mole," which, being translated, means, "To the
illustrious Mr. Mole."

"Hullo!" said the tutor, looking around him and dropping his eye on
Dick, "who is this from?"

"From the Contessa Maraviglia," replied the girl.

Mr. Mole gave her a piercing glance.

The contessa's letter was a sort of puzzle to poor old Mole.

"The Contessa Maraviglia begs the honour of the Signor Mole's company
on the 16th instant. She can accept no refusal, as the _fête_ is
especially organised in honour of Signor Mole, whose rare excellence in
the poetry of motion has elevated dancing into an art."

Isaac Mole read and re-read this singular letter, until he grew more
and more fogged.

He thought that the contessa had failed to express herself clearly in
English on account of her imperfect knowledge of our language; but he
was soon corrected in this impression.

The lady in question, it transpired, was English.

So poor Mole did what he thought best under the circumstances, and that
was to consult with Dick Harvey.

"Dear me!" echoed Dick, innocently; "why, you have made an impression
here, Mr. Mole."

"Do you think so?" said Mole, doubtfully.

"Beyond question. This contessa is smitten, sir, with your attractions;
but I can assist you here."

"You can?"

"Of course."

"Thank you, my dear Harvey, thank you," replied Mr. Mole eagerly.

"Yes; I can let the contessa know that there is no hope for her."

Isaac Mole's vanity was tickled at this.

"Don't you think it would be cruel to undeceive her?"

"Cruel, sir!" said Dick, with severe air, "no, sir; I don't. It is my
duty to tell her all."

Mr. Mole looked alarmed.

"What do you mean?"

"That you are a married man."

"I say, I say--"

"Yes, sir, very much married," pursued Dick, relentlessly; "that you
have had three wives, and were nearly taking a fourth."

"Don't, Dick."

"All more or less black."

"Dick, Dick!"

"However, there is no help for it; you will have to go to this ball."

"Never."

"You will, though. The contessa has heard of your fame in the ball
room--"

"What!"

"In bygone years, no doubt--and she does not know of the little matters
which have happened since to spoil your activity, if not your grace."

As he alluded to the "little matters," he glanced at Mr. Mole's wooden
legs.

Mr. Mole thought it over, and then he read through the letter again.

"You are right, Harvey," he said with an air of determination; "and my
mind's made up."

"Is it?"

"Yes."

"So much the better, for your absence would be sadly missed at the
ball."

"You misunderstand me, Harvey; I shall not go."

Dick looked frightened.

"Don't say that, Mr. Mole, I beg, don't; it would be dangerous."

"What on earth do you mean?"

"I mean that this lady is English by birth, but she has lived in the
land of the Borgias, where they yet know how to use poison."

"Harvey!"

"And if her love were slighted, she might recollect it."

Mr. Mole looked precious uncomfortable.

"It is really very embarrassing, Harvey," said he; "my personal
attractions are likely to get me into trouble."

And yet, in spite of his embarrassment, Mr. Mole was not altogether
displeased at the fancy.

He strutted up and down, showing the fall in his back to the best
advantage, and was very evidently conscious that he was rather a fine
man.

"Yes, sir," said Harvey, with great gravity; "your fatal beauty is
likely to lead you into a mess."

At the words "fatal beauty," Mr. Mole made a grimace.

It was rather a strong dose for even him to swallow.

"Draw it mild, Harvey," said he, "pray draw it mild."

Dick shook his head with great seriousness.

"Don't you be deceived, Mr. Mole," said he; "use the greatest care, for
this poor countess is to be pitied. Her love is likely to turn to
violent hate if she finds herself slighted--the poignard or the
poisoned chalice may yet be called to play a part in your career."

Mr. Mole turned pale.

Yet he tried to laugh.

A hollow ghastly laugh it was too, that told how he felt more plainly
than words could have done.

"Don't, Harvey; don't, I beg!" he said in faltering tones; "it sounds
like some dreadful thing one sees upon the stage."

"In all these southern countries you know, Mr. Mole, a man's life is
not worth much."

"Harvey!"

"A hired assassin or bravo will cut a throat or stab a man in the back
for a few francs."

"Oh!"

"I should advise you not to keep out after dark--and avoid dark
corners. These people can poison you, too, with a bouquet or a jewel.
Accept a flower or a nosegay, but don't smell it."

"Harvey."

"Sir?"

"Is it your wish to make me uncomfortable?"

"How can you think it?"

"Do you wish me to dream all night, and disturb Mrs. Mole, and not to
get a wink of sleep?"

"Certainly not; that's why I am giving you advice; but pray understand
the contessa thinks you are a single man."

"Good gracious me; it is very unpleasant to have a contessa in love
with one."

"I don't know that; most men wouldn't say so. There are, I'll be bound,
forty men within a mile of this house who would give their ears to have
received such a letter."

Mr. Mole smiled--a self-satisfied, complacent smile,

"Do you think so?"

"I know it."

Mole lifted his collar and shot his cuffs over his hands, as he stomped
across the room, and looked into a glass.

"Well, well, Harvey, I suppose I must go to the ball; but you will bear
me witness that I only go for reasons of prudence, and that I am not
going to be led away by any little silly reasons of vanity?"

"Of course," returned Dick, gravely.

"Besides, I go disguised."

"Certainly"

"And what disguise would you recommend?"

"Why that is a matter for reflection," said Dick. "I should think that
you ought almost to keep up the character."

"The character!" said Mole. "What character?"

"A Terpsichorean personage," replied Dick, with the air of one
discussing a grave problem. "Say, for instance, a ballet girl."

Mr. Mole gasped.

"No, no; not a ballet girl."

"A fairy queen, then."

"Don't, Dick; don't, I beg."

"Or, if you object to the costume of the gentler sex, what do you say
to the spangles and wand of a harlequin?"

"Do you really think that such a costume would become me?"

"Do I think?" iterated Dick. "Do I _know!_ Of course it would
become you. You will look the part to the life: it wants a figure to
show off such a dress and to be shown off by it."

"But what about my--my wooden legs, Dick?"

"Oh, I'll provide you with cork ones, and here they are," said Harvey,
producing a pair.

And so it was settled.

Mr. Mole was to go to the ball, and his disguise was to be well-known
spangles and colours of a harlequin.

Harvey himself chose a clown's costume and carried over his shoulder
Mole's wooden legs, in case any thing happened to the cork ones he was
walking on for the first time.

Harkaway was to go as a knight of old.

Magog Brand selected the character of Quasimodo, the hunchback of Nôtre
Dame.

Jefferson selected the character of Julius Caesar, a costume which his
fine, stalwart form set off to considerable advantage.

Mrs. Harkaway was to go as Diana, the huntress, and Mrs. Harvey made
Marie Stuart her choice.

Little Emily and Paquita went in dresses of the Charles the Second
period.

These young ladies were escorted by young Jack and Harry Girdwood, who
were richly habited as young Venetian nobles of the sixteenth century.

As they passed through the garden door a man stood in their path.

He wore a long serge gown, with a cowl, like a mendicant monk, and as
they approached he put out his open hand for alms.

"Bother the beggars!" said Mr. Mole, tartly.

The monk shrank back into his cowl, and stood aside while the party
went by.

The garden door was held by the maid servant while they passed on, and
when they were out of hearing, she dropped a small silver coin into the
mendicant friar's hand.

"There," she said, "I can spare you something, father, although those
rich English cannot or will not, the heretics and pagans!"

The friar, who was seemingly an aged man, muttered his thanks, and the
girl retired and closed the door, locking it behind her.

No sooner was the door closed than the mendicant monk whistled a low
but very distinct note, and lo! two men appeared upon the scene.

It looked as though they had just come up trap-doors in the earth, so
suddenly did they show in sight.

"Captain Mathias," said the disguised monk to the first who came up, "I
have learnt all we wish to know."

"You have?" ejaculated, not the man addressed by the mendicant monk,
but the other. "Out with it, then."

"Still your impatience, Toro, if you can.--"

"Bah!"

"Well, then, learn that Mole goes as--"

"Bother Mole!" interrupted Toro, harshly. "How does our great foe go?"

"Harkaway?"

"Yes."

"An English knight of old."

"It shall be my task," said Toro, "to keep up his character, and give
it a realistic look by a hand-to-hand fight."

"Don't be rash," said the mendicant friar, "or you may chance to be
beaten."

"I can risk my life on it."

"You have--you do; every hour that you live here imperils it. Did you
see the party go?"

"I did," said Mathias.

The latter was no other than the captain of the brigands. Already they
were upon a footing of equality, for the two adventurers had had
opportunities, which they had not failed to seize.

They had courage, ready wit, presence of mind, boldness daring, and
cunning, and so it fell out that they who had made the acquaintance of
the brigand's gang under such very unpleasant auspices, became two of
the principal members of it within a few days.

But to resume.

"Tell me, Hunston," said Toro, "does Jefferson go to the ball?"

"Yes."

"How disguised?"

"Julius Caesar."

The Italian said nothing, but his lips moved, and his lowering brow was
as expressive as words could be to his old comrade.

It boded ill for Jefferson.

They had met in fair fight, and he, Toro, had been defeated.

That defeat was as bitter as gall to him.

He would be avenged.

And if he could not cope with the doughty Anglo-American, then let him
look to it.

What strength and skill failed to achieve, the assassin's knife would
accomplish.

"Did you see the girl that attended him to the gate?" demanded the
mendicant friar, or Hunston, as it would be better to call him, since
there is no further need of concealment.

"I did."

"And recognised her, Mathias?" he asked of the brigand captain.

"Yes; it is the pretty girl we stopped with her lover, the coy
Marietta."

"Now that they are well off, we may as well set to work," said Hunston.

"Good."

Hunston threw back his friar's cowl and produced a key.

"They have had many a good hunt for this," he said, with his old
sinister laugh,

"I dare say."

"It was a lucky thing that the dainty little Marietta dropped it."

"Yes, it makes matters much easier for us to begin with."

The door yielded to the touch of the sham mendicant friar, and the
three worthies entered the grounds.

Silently they stepped across a grassplot, keeping a thick shrubbery
between them and the house as far as they could, when just as they
gained the shelter of a trellissed verandah, a dog within set up a most
alarming noise.

The three robbers exchanged uneasy glances.

"Curse the beast!" muttered Mathias the captain; "he will ruin us."

Toro got ready his long hunting-knife and looked about.

But the dog was out of sight.

A lucky thing it was too for our old friend little Mike, for a touch
with that ugly instrument would soon have stopped his singing.

Now, just above the verandah was a half-opened window, and into this
Mathias peered anxiously.

No signs of Mike.

A voice was heard now calling to the faithful guardian of the house to
be silent, but Mike refused emphatically to be comforted; thereupon,
the person very imprudently called the dog to her and tied him up.

This did not quiet him.

So the person in question tripped down the garden to see if there was
really any reason for the dog's singular beheaviour.

In passing down the path she went so close to the verandah, that the
skirts of her dress actually brushed aside the creeping plants which
garnished the trellis work.

"Snarling, barking little beast!" quoth Marietta to herself, "and all
about nothing; I wish they would lose him."

But when she got to the bottom of the garden and discovered the garden
door open, she altered her tone.

"How very silly of me to leave the door unlocked," she said to herself.
"Poor little fellow, poor Mike, I'm coming, good dog. Heard someone, I
suppose. Good gracious, what's that? I thought I saw something move
there. I'm getting as nervous as a cat ever since those men stopped us
and made me kiss them, the beasts. Ugh I how I loathe them, although
there was one of them that was really not very bad-looking. I wonder
where that poor old friar went to. What was that? Oh, how nervous I
feel. I wish they had left me some one in the house besides that old
deaf Constantino; he's nice company truly for a girl. Bother the dog,
what a noise he is kicking up."

And chatting thus, Marietta re-entered the house.

Meanwhile Mathias had clambered up the iron balcony and pushing open
the glass door, or rather window, he entered the room.

It was the dining-room, and the remnants of a very sumptuous repast
were yet upon the table.

"I'll just take a glass of wine."

He did, too.

He took several glasses of wine, and then, as the fumes of the good
liquor mounted to his brain, he grew generous, and he lowered a bottle
out of the window to his two comrades beneath.

Toro grasped it, and sucked down a good half of it before it left his
lips.

Then Hunston finished it off at a draught.

When Mathias had regaled himself, he made a move to the door.

There was no one about.

Not a sound.

Now was his time.

His object was to explore the house, and ascertain in what particular
part of it the cash, the jewels, and the plate were kept.

When they had secured these, they could content themselves for the
present at least.

Firstly, therefore, he tied up the silver spoons and knives and forks
from the dinner table in a napkin, and dropped the bundle into Toro's
hat below.

Then he crept back through the room into the passage.

This done, he waited for a while to listen, and assuring himself that
the coast was clear, he crept up.

On the next landing there were seven doors.

Six were shut, so he peeped into the seventh room, and just then he
heard a noise below.

Someone coming up stairs.

What could he do?

He stole back to the stairs and listened. It was Marietta.

It was really a most embarrassing job now, for there was no retreat, so
he crept upon tip-toe into the room, of which the door stood ajar.

It was a bedroom, dimly lighted by an oil lamp.

A cursory glance showed him that this room had only been lately
vacated, and that one or more of the ladies had been dressing here for
the ball.

Within a few feet of the door was a looking-glass let into the wall as
a panel, and reaching from floor to ceiling.

Mathias listened in great anxiety for the footsteps on the stairs, and
every moment they sounded nearer and nearer.

"I hope she will not come in here," thought the robber, "else I shall
have to make her sure."

He showed how he meant to "make her sure" by toying with the hilt of
his dagger.

Mathias crouched down, and crept under the bed, just in time, as the
pert young lady skipped into the room.

Her first care was to turn up the lamp, and by its light she looked
about her.

"I think they might have taken me to the ball with them," she said,
saucily shaking her curls off her face. "I should have looked better
than some of them, I'll be bound. I'm dead beat with fatigue. I've had
all the work dressing them, and they are to get all the fun."

She was silent for some few minutes, and Mathias grew anxious.

What could be going forward?

He would vastly like to know.

Unable to control his curiosity, he peeped out, and then he saw pretty
Marietta's portrait in the long looking-glass panel.

She looked prettier than ever now, for, shocking to relate, the young
lady was undressing.

Mathias was not to say a bashful man, so he did not draw back.

On the contrary, he stared with all his eyes.

Pretty Marietta little thought, as she stood before the glass, that
such a desperate villain was watching every movement.

Marietta, wholly unconscious that she was watched by the vile brigand
chief, walked up and down before the glass, shooting admiring glances
at herself over her white and well rounded shoulders.

"Dress, and rank, and money do wonders," she said. "Why are we not all
about equal? I'm as good as the best of them, I'm sure, and very much
better looking."

With this mixture of feminine vanity and republican sentiments, she
bustled about, putting the room a bit in order.

Now her first job was to put away several dresses.

The first of these was a short Spanish skirt of pink satin, with deep
black lace flounces.

"I wonder how I should look in this?" she murmured.

She held up the dress beside her to test the colour against her
complexion.

"Beautiful!"

Beautiful; yes, this was her frank opinion, and, really, we are by no
means sure but that her own estimate was very near the mark.

On went the dress.

She strutted up and down, and then, when she had feasted her eyes
enough upon her own loveliness, she plaited her hair, and, twisting it
up into a rich knot behind, she stuck a high comb into it, and fastened
the thick lace veil about her.

Mathias watched it all.

He gloated over that pretty little picture, and, shameless rascal!
chuckled to think how little she suspected his presence.

"There," she said, folding the veil about her head with the most
coquettish manner, "if I don't look the prettiest señorita alive, why,
call me--call me anything odious--yes, even an Englishwoman--ha, ha,
ha! How that would please my mistress!"

And then she figured about before the glass, and capered through a
Spanish bolero with considerable grace and dexterity, while she sang an
impromptu verse to an old air.

The verse was naturally doggerel, and maybe given in English as
follows--

                      "Sweet Marietta,
                         Rarely has been
                       A sweeter or better
                         Face or form seen;
                       My chestnut tresses,
                         And my Spanish fall,
                       Would eclipse all the dresses
                         At the masked ball.
                       Then why, Marietta.
                         Dally?--ah, no!
                       Pluck up, you'd better,
                         Your courage and go!"

And as she came to the last line, this impudent little maid whirled round,
spinning her skirts about her like a top.

Mathias was enraptured.

With difficulty he kept himself from applauding.

"She'd make her fortune upon the stage," he said to himself.

Marietta had made quite a conquest; a double conquest, it might almost
be said.

The hidden robber was enraptured, and she was scarcely less pleased with
herself.

"I'll go," she said to herself, "Why should I not? They'll never find it
out; I can do just as Cenerentola (Cinderella) did, and who knows but
that some prince might fall over head and ears in love with me? I can get
back long before they do."

Out she skipped too, and tripped down the stairs.

She was off to the ball.

Little dreamt she that for the last half hour her life hung upon the
most slender thread.

And now, the coast being clear, the three brigands prepared to carry out
their plans.




CHAPTER II.

AT THE CONTESSA'S FETE-A ROMANTIC ADVENTURE BETWEEN CERTAIN OLD FRIENDS.


The most brilliant fête of the year was that given by the
rich Contessa Maraviglia at her palazzo.

All the rank and fashion of the land were there.

The palazzo itself was a building of great beauty, and stood in grounds
of great extent.

The contessa, who was a widow, had a princely fortune, and she spent
it lavishly too.

Upon the night of the masquerade the gardens were brilliantly lighted.

Upon the miniature lake there was a fairy gondola, with a coloured
lantern dangling at the prow, and hung with curtains of pale blue silk
gauze.

In this gondola a lady was seated.

She had taken to the gondola, not alone for the sake of the freshness of
the breeze upon the water, but to read without interruption a letter she
had received from a mysterious man who professed to be deeply smitten
with her charms, and who, the messenger of love let fall, was a prince.

She wore a black domino, but was not masked, for as she threw back its
folds to breathe more freely, you could see that her only veil was a
thick fall of black lace, fastened to a high comb in the back of her
head.

"I hope he will not be long," said she to herself, while her heart beat
high with expectation. "His note says clearly enough on the lake in the
fairy gondola. Well, it will certainly be nice to be a princess, but I
do hope that his highness may prove to be a dashing, handsome youth,
such as a Cinderella might sigh for. Hush, boatman!"

"Lady?"

"Do you hear?"

"Someone singing on the bank yonder? Yes! I hear, lady."

"Row that way."

A voice was heard carolling gently the serenade--"Fair shines the moon
to-night."

The voice meant well, evidently, but something rather spoilt the effect.

It was not altogether in tune, nor had the singer the best idea in the
world of time.

Perhaps his singing was spoilt by excess of love.

Perhaps by liquor.

The latter idea was suggested by a certain unsteadiness that would
appear to indicate both love and liquor.

Be that as it may, the singer was not at all aware of the disadvantages
under which he laboured.

On the contrary, he had the greatest belief in himself.

"Boatman," exclaimed the lady, impatiently, "row me ashore."

"Yes, lady."

He obeyed, as he spoke, and as the boat grounded, the hidden minstrel
stepped forward.

The gallant was rather a tall man, masked and habited in a long cloak,
which almost concealed a glittering and gorgeous costume beneath.

This cavalier hastened to tender the lady his hand and to assist her to
disembark.

As soon as she was fairly upon _terra firma_ the gentleman led her
away to a more secluded part of the garden, and then ensued a brief but
highly interesting conversation.

It took place in the Italian language.

That beautiful tongue was not to say elegantly spoken upon either side.

The gentleman spoke as a foreigner, but imperfectly acquainted with the
idiom.

"Sir," said the lady, after an embarrassing silence upon his part, "I
scarcely know if I ought to be here."

"Nor I either, my dear lady," began the gallant.

But then, aware that this was not exactly what might have been expected
of him, he stammered and broke down.

"Poor prince," thought the lady, with a very unladylike chuckle to
herself. "How embarrassed he is."

The cavalier stared at her through the great eyes in his mask, as he
muttered to himself--

"She is evidently in love with me very badly; I am curious to learn how
a princess makes love. I am anxious only of course to study it as a
matter of curiosity."

"I ought not to have come here, prince," said the lady, in a nervous
tone.

Prince!

The word made the masked gentleman stare.

"Prince! I suppose that she can't know I am a married man, and goes
straight to the question. This is popping the question sharply."

He had never been made love to before by a lady of any degree, much
less by a princess, so he was exceedingly anxious to see how she would
begin upon this occasion.

But after they had got to a quiet and remote part of the garden, they
came to a dead lock.

Not a word was spoken upon either side.

"I wish he would say something to me," thought the lady.

She was not used to such bashful suitors.

"I have kept your appointment, sir," she said, "although I fear I am
very wrong."

"My appointment," muttered the cavalier in English, "Come, I like
that."

However, he added in the softest tones he could assume--

"Fear nothing, princess, I am not a dangerous man."

She thought he was, though, for as he said this he chuckled.

The lady dropped her eyes before his bold glance and looked as timid as
you could wish.

Now this appeared only to encourage the gentleman, for he seized her
round the waist and pressed a kiss upon the only part of her cheek
which was left uncovered by her veil.

She struggled feebly, oh, very feebly to release herself; but that
libertine masker held her firmly; that is, as firmly as possible, for
he was not very strong upon his pins.

"Sir, you must not take advantage of my unprotected situation," she
faltered.

"I should be very sorry to, my coy princess," said the gallant.

These words set her heart beating like clockwork.

"He means well," she thought, growing quite easy in her mind.

Meanwhile the ardent young lover, growing bolder by encouragement,
wanted to remove her veil.

"Grant me one favour, my princess," he said. "Let me bask in the
sunshine of your eyes; let me feast my vision upon your rare beauty."

The lady was enraptured at such poetical imagery.

"It sounds like a lovely book," she murmured in ecstasy.

But she would not accede to his request.

She was so filled with joy, so supremely happy, that she feared to
break the enchanting spell by any accident.

"Desist, prince," she said, struggling gently in his embrace,

"I must gaze on that angelic face," said the passionate Adonis.

"Why," exclaimed the lady, "since you know it so well?"

"Know it!" exclaimed the gallant in surprise.

"Yes."

"I have never seen it."

"Yet your letter praises each feature to the skies."

"My letter!"

He was staggered evidently.

"Undoubtedly."

"I sent no letter."

The lady was amazed "If you sent no letter, why are you here?" she
demanded.

"In obedience to yours," responded the gallant.

"My what?"

"Your note--your ever-to-be-treasured missive," gushed the swain.

Now what would have followed in the way of explanations it is
impossible to say, for at the momentous crisis, a voice close by was
heard repeating softly a couplet heard before--

                   "Dear Marietta,
                      Never had been
                    A sweeter or neater
                      Face or form seen."

The lady started and screamed, and would have fallen had not the
protecting arm of the gentleman been there to catch her.

But her veil fell aside.

When the lover saw her face, he was staggered, and he nearly let her
fall,

"Marietta!" he exclaimed, "Marietta! Mrs. Harkaway's maid, by all
that's wonderful."

"Oho," screamed the lady, "you're standing on my toe!" saying which she
jerked herself back, and dragging his foot away too, down he went.

"It's Mr. Mole," shrieked the lady; and catching up her pink skirt and
black lace flounces, she fled precipitately along the path, leaving her
admirer scrambling in the most undignified manner upon the gravel walk.

Poor Mr. Mole.

But oh, poor Marietta; how sadly was she disappointed with her prince.




CHAPTER III.

MR. MOLE--THE THREE DEVILS AND THEIR DEVILMENT--THE CONTESSA'S
JEWELS--AN ALARM.


"Mr. Mole--Mr. Mole!"

It was Harvey's voice.

Now Mr. Mole was convinced at once that Dick was at the bottom of this
comical conspiracy in which he had been made to look so ridiculous. So
he resolved at first not to make any reply.

But Harvey was guided to the spot by information which had been
furnished him concerning Mr. Mole, and soon he appeared in sight.

"Mr. Mole--Mr. Mole!" exclaimed Dick, in grave reproof.

"Help me up, Harvey," said Mole, "and don't be a fool."

"Well, that's polite."

"Quite as polite as you can expect."

"What do you mean?"

"Oh, you know what I mean well enough."

"I'm hanged if I do!" protested Harvey, stoutly.

His manner caught Mr. Mole immediately.

So this led the old gentleman to reflect.

If Dick did not know, it would be as well to keep the adventure to
himself.

"Is it possible, Harvey, that you don't know what has occurred?"

"No."

"You don't know about Marietta?"

"No."

This decided Mole.

"Marietta is here."

"Never!" said Dick, in accents of deep mystery.

"A fact."

"Never! And who the dickens is Marietta when she is at home?"

"Mrs. Harkaway's maid, to be sure."

Dick burst out laughing at this.

"Why, Mr. Mole," he cried, "what a sly old fox you are."

Mr. Mole stared again.

"I don't quite understand what you are driving at, Mr, Harvey," said
he.

"Don't you, though?--well, I do, old Slyboots."

"Harvey!"

"Oh, don't you try to come the old soldier over me."

"Sir!" said Mr. Mole, rearing himself up to his full height upon his
timbers, "I don't understand your slangy allusions to the ancient
military."

"Why, it is clear enough that you brought her."

"I what?" almost shrieked Mr. Mole, indignantly.

"Brought her, and your poor wife ought to know of it."

"Sir?" said Mole, "if you are bent on insulting me, I shall leave your
company."

"Go it, Mole," said Dick, laughing until the tears came into his eyes;
"go it. The fact is, you have been sneaking about after that little
girl for a long while past; there can be no doubt about it."

"Harvey, I repudiate your vile insinuations with scorn, The fact is,
that in your anxiety to fix some wickedness never contemplated upon me,
you forget all the most important part of the tale."

"What?"

"Why, that girl has left the villa unprotected."

"Nonsense! there's old Constantino there."

"Useless."

"And Mike."

"He barks, but don't bite."

"Besides; you may be mistaken," urged Dick.

"Not I. I knew her at once, and what's more, she recognised me."

"The deuce!"

"And she bolted directly I pronounced her name."

"How was she dressed?"

Mr. Mole gave a hurried description of Marietta's dress, and they want
off in search through the house and grounds after the flighty Marietta.

       *       *       *       *       *

In another part of the grounds three men met.

"Hunston."

"Toro."

"Captain."

"Here."

"All safe?"

"Yes."

"Good!"

"What have you learnt, Toro?"

"Not much."

"And you, captain?"

"Nothing, or next to nothing," was the reply.

"And you, Hunston?"

"I have gained knowledge," answered the latter; "good, useful
knowledge."

The other two laughed heartily at this reply.

"You were always of a studious turn of mind, Hunston."

"Ha, ha, ha!"

[Illustration: "'WHAT HAVE YOU DISCOVERED?' ASKED THE CAPTAIN"--ADV IN
GREECE, VOL II, PAGE 21]

It may be as well to mention that they had sought a secluded part of
the contessa's gardens, and met now by appointment.

They were all three arrayed in that peculiar style of costume which the
prince of darkness is popularly supposed to don when he makes his
appearance to German students, in certain weird and wild works of
fiction, or in the supernatural drama.

It sounded really remarkable to hear these three men, disguised as
devils, discussing matters generally in such an offhand manner.

The dresses of all three were alike nearly in every particular.

The only mark of distinction between them was a small straight feather
they wore in their caps.

One wore a yellow feather.

Another had a feather of brilliant red.

The third one's feather was of a bright emerald green.

Now these feathers were small, but yet, by reason of the conspicuous
colours, could be seen at a considerable distance.

"What is it you have discovered?" asked the captain.

"Out with it, Hunston," said Toro, in his old impatient way.

"Well, in the first place," was Hunston's reply, "our letters to old
Mole and to the girl Marietta were perfectly successful."

"Of course."

"The vanity of the one, and the conceit of the other, made it an easy
matter."

"It did."

"I saw the interview from a snug place of concealment, and took care to
let her know it."

"How?"

"By humming her song which you heard her sing up at the villa."

The latter looked somewhat alarmed at this.

"Was that prudent?"

"Of course she did not see me, only we must get a thorough hold over
this girl, so as to have her as an accomplice in the enemy's camp
always."

"Good."

"Now let us get back to the ball-room, and see what is to be picked up
there."

Back they went, and arrived in the large ball-room just as a dance was
being got up.

The three diabolical companions deemed it prudent now to separate, that
no undue attention might be drawn upon their movements.

And they went sauntering about the rooms, each upon the look-out for
any slice of luck which might turn up.

Hunston had added a long red cloak to his costume, so as to envelope
his figure and cover his arm, for fear of accidentally running across
Harkaway or Harvey, or in fact, any of the party.

In this cloak he was wrapped, and silently watching two young and
lovely girls, whose grace and elegance were commanding universal
admiration,

One was fair as a lily, with light, golden, wavy hair, and full blue
eyes.

This beautiful girl it was who excited Hunston's curiosity

"Who can she be? Perhaps Harvey's daughter," he thought

Now these two were equally lovely to gaze upon, the beauty of each
being of a totally different character.

"If we can but spirit little Emily away to the mountains," said Hunston
to himself, "I shall be able to repay them for all I have suffered.
Nay, more, I shall be able to satisfy the greed of Mathias and the
band, by making the accursed Harkaway disgorge some of his enormous
wealth."

A hand was placed upon his shoulder.

"Hah!"

"It is I," said a voice in his ear.

And looking up, he beheld the devil in the red feather.

"Mathias."

"Hush! I have to rejoin a lady now, to whom I am engaged for the
dance."

"The dance!"

Mathias nodded.

"She accepted at once a dance with the devil; I'll lead her a devil of
a dance."

And the brigand captain laughed hugely at his own conceit.

But Hunston was not in laughing humour.

"I'm glad to find you so merry, captain."

The Greek did not observe his gloomy manner; he only replied--"You will
be merry, too, when I tell you the cause."

"I have no thought for the pleasures of these fools," said Hunston,
gruffly; "I only think of business."

"I too."

"And yet you are going to dance, Captain Mathias."

"For business reasons, solely," said the Greek.

"Ho ho!"

"My partner is positively bristling with diamonds," said the brigand,
significantly.

Hunston was interested immediately.

"Diamonds?"

"Aye! diamonds; and such diamonds, too. There is one as big as a nut, I
swear."

"I must see this lady."

"You shall."

"Where is she to be seen?"

"Come with me," said the captain.

Away they went, squeezing through the crowds of dancers and maskers,
until they came to the smaller ball-room, where a lady stood in
conversation with a big man, admirably got up as a knight of the olden
time.

The lady Hunston recognised at a glance, from the description which
Mathias had given of her jewels.

Her finely-rounded arms were encircled by bracelets, set with the
richest diamonds, that matched a necklet of priceless worth apparently.

She wore a tiara, too, of the same costly making and setting.

The dance began.

It was a waltz.

Now the gallant Mathias acquitted himself to perfection in the dance,
carrying his fair and richly-attired partner through the crowded room
without getting at all jostled by the dancers.

Hunston followed their movements with the greatest possible interest,
and as they shot past him for the third time round the room, he
contrived to take from the Greek captain's hand one of the lady's
bracelets which he had with some dexterity removed.

The next round he was less successful.

As they shot past, the brigand's hand was outstretched, but Hunston
missed it, and a glittering object dropped to the floor. Hunston
stooped to recover it, when--

"The lady has dropped something," said a voice in his ear.

"What lady?" he demanded, recovering himself quickly,

"The contessa."

"Ah! I see. But was it the contessa?" he asked.

"Yes."

"Are you sure?"

"Yes. It is the lady dancing with your half-brother."

"Eh!"

Hunston started a little after these words.

They sounded very unpleasantly in his ear.

He had evidently been associated with Mathias by the speaker.

Now the latter was a strange-looking little being.

A stunted man, with broad, square shoulders, and got up to represent
the description which Victor Hugo has given us of his creation of
Quasimodo.

"That is the contessa?" said Hunston, recovering his presence of mind.

"Yes."

"I am very glad of it, for I shall be able to restore this to its
proper owner."

"Of course."

Hunston arose, and with a slight inclination of the head, crossed the
room, as if in search of the contessa.

The dwarf regarded him eagerly as he went.

"That's a rum one," he said to himself. "He means to pocket the
contessa's bracelet. What a swindle! I thought there was something more
devilish about him than his dress."

       *       *       *       *       *

Hunston fled precipitately to the gardens.

Close by the spot where he had previously met his companions in crime,
there was a man awaiting him with a big bundle.

"Matteo, is it you?"

"Yes, sir."

"Good; give me the other dress out. Quick! I must change, and be back
before my absence can be noticed."

As he spoke, he had already torn from the hands of the man Matteo a
pair of trunks of blue cloth slashed with amber silk, and quick as an
eye could wink, he was into them.

And then he fastened on a similarly coloured mantle.

"Tell me, Matteo, does that change me?"

"Yes, perfectly."

"Good! take this."

"What, jewels?"

"Hush! hear all, see all, and say nothing. Away with you, now."

"Yes. Where to?"

"Back to the mountains, where we can always guard what we ourselves
have made."

"True."

Just then there was a commotion in the ball-room, and a voice was heard
to cry out--

"The contessa has lost her richest diamonds and other precious stones.
There are robbers here. No one must leave the grounds."

"By Heaven!" ejaculated Hunston; "we are lost."




CHAPTER IV.

HUNSTON'S ADVENTURE--MOLE IN A MAZE--HE MEETS AN EVIL SPIRIT--
GROSS OUTRAGE ON HIS WOODEN LEGS--MATHIAS IN TROUBLE-THE ASSASSIN'S
KNIFE.


Quasimodo, who had detected one of the devils, was Magog Brand.

The audacity of the fearless Greek had carried him through so far, but
Quasimodo had spoilt him at last.

A number of gentlemen in the company began to inquire very minutely
into the affair.

Prominent amongst them was Harkaway.

He and Jefferson, prompt to act as ever, inquired into the
circumstances of this gross outrage, and then it was elicited that the
depredator was seen last in diabolical costume.

"A devil!" ejaculated one of the company. "Of course, I saw the man
myself."

"I too," said another.

"Yes, he wore a red feather in his high-crowned hat."

"No," said another; "a feather, it is true, but the feather was green,
I am sure."

Upon this, Magog Brand came forward.

"I saw it all done," he said. "I saw the man who did it"

"What, rob the contessa?"

"Yes, and as soon as I saw what It meant, I gave the alarm; but the
devil disappeared like greased lightning."

"There!" exclaimed half a dozen at once, "I said it was the devil."

"Yes," added one of the guests, eagerly. "What coloured feather had
he?"

"Red," ejaculated another, immediately.

"Green," retorted the opposite faction, loudly, but Magog Brand said--

"It was neither red nor green," said he, "but a bright yellow."

Now, while this inquiry was being proceeded with, nobody happened to
observe one singular circumstance.

That was the presence, the whole of the time, in the motley-coloured
crowd, of one of the diabolical trio in question.

This very devil no sooner heard the question raised about the coloured
feathers in their head gear, than he doffed his hat unperceived and
pulled out the feather.

And then, as the controversy grew warmer, he sneaked off.

He made all possible haste for the garden gate.

Once here he was about to rush through, when he was accosted by two
men, whose uniform gave him an unpleasant twinge.

They were gendarmes.

"You cannot leave the ground yet, sir," said one of them sharply.

"I don't wish to," replied the devil, promptly. "I come to bring you
orders."

"I beg your pardon," said the gendarme.

"A robbery has been committed."

"Yes, sir."

"That is the reason you have had your orders to guard the gate. Oh, you
know it. Well, what you don't know is that the robbery is supposed to
have been committed by a masker dressed as I am. Take particular note
of my dress."

"Yes, sir."

The gendarme grinned as he said this.

"Keep your eyes open. These are the contessa's particular orders."

"Trust me, sir."

"There is a reward if you capture the thief."

The gendarme laughed at this, and said, with an air of self-confidence
--"I think I shall get him."

The merry devil slapped the gendarme upon the back heartily.

"You are the sort of man for my money."

Saying which, he turned and left the spot.

Making his way to a place in the grounds previously agreed upon, he ran
across the brigand Matteo armed with a change of dress for him.

The spot selected was up one of the narrowest alleys in the grounds, at
the end of which was a species of Hampton Court maze in miniature.

Just as the diabolical one was about to divest himself of half of his
skin, Matteo gave the alarm.

"The devil!" ejaculated the masker, which was, perhaps, the most
natural exclamation he could make, all things considered. "What can
this be? Somebody watched me here."

He waited a minute or so in anxiety.

An unsteady footfall was heard upon the gravel walk, and a man in a
cloak came staggering along.

"They may call this a grand _fête_ if they like," he mumbled. "I
call it a shabby affair. Why, there's not a respectable drink in the
place. The lucky thing is that I have provided my own."

He had a bottle with him, and he sucked at it from time to time as he
staggered on, until all of a sudden he ran on to the alarmed masker,
who was growing impatient to change his garments.

The staggering one looked up, and seeing such an alarming figure
towering over him, he gave a wild howl and fled.

"The devil! the devil!" he shouted wildly. "Help! help!"

"Stop that fool, Matteo, or he will bring the whole house down about
our ears."

Matteo seized the merrymaker, and was about to make short work with
him, when his superior held his hand.

"Put by your knife," he said; "not that. Hold him tight and threaten
him; but no knife."

But for this timely interference, it would have gone hard with the
unfortunate new-comer, who was our old friend Mole,

Mole, it should be noted, had been compelled to change his cork legs,
on which he could scarcely stand, for his old, familiar stumps, which
Harvey had brought with him in case any accident should occur.

"Forgive me, Mr. Devil," he implored, in drunken tones, "oh, forgive
me."

"Mole!" exclaimed the devil, in a thrilling voice, "your evil deeds are
known to me."

"Oh, oh, oh!" groaned the wretched Isaac, piteously.

"Your time has come."

"Mercy, mercy!" gasped Mole.

"Never."

"Give me a little time, Mr. Devil."

"No."

"Oh, do, do, for the sake of my twins," said Mole, in his most
persuasive manner, "and I'll stand any thing you like to--hic--to name.
Don't take me away, but come and liquor up with me."

"Silence!" thundered the irritable devil

"I'm dumb."

"Away with you, and repent."

Mole staggered off.

As soon as he was gone, Matteo assisted his master to change his
garments, and in the space of five minutes at the outside, the devil
disappeared, and was replaced by a gay cavalier, habited in a rich
costume of blue slashed with amber, and a broad-brimmed sombrero.

The excitement occasioned by the impudent robbery of the contessa
Maraviglia's jewels had not by any means subsided, so the confusion
prevailing in consequence was highly favourable to Hunston's new
villany for trapping little Emily.

Nearing the entrance to the ball-room, he came to a conservatory, into
which Mr. Mole had strolled, or let us say staggered, and then dropped
into a seat.

Hunston glided in unperceived by Mole, and concealed himself behind
some thick shrubs close to him.

Mole was bent upon making himself comfortable.

The irrepressible bottle was out again.

"I feel," mumbled Mole, little thinking there was a listener near, "I
feel that I am a devil of a fellow. All the ladies love me, and all the
men fear me. I'm too much for anyone of them, ha, ha, ha! I've taken a
rise out of the devil himself."

Here he had a suck at the bottle.

"I'm getting quite familiar with evil spirits to-night," he said
grinning; "I don't think he will see me again in a hurry--he, he!" He
raised the bottle again to his lips, when a ghostly voice sounded in
his ear--

"Beware!"

He turned pale, and then got very red in the face.

"Who's there?" said Mole, looking nervously round; "come in, don't
knock; what a fool I am."

"Remember!" said the same hollow voice as before.

"Oh, Lor', oh, Lor'!" cried Mole; "I'm gone; he's there again."

"Beware!"

"I'm gone, I'm going," cried Mole; "oh, Lor', oh, Lor'!"

And off he ran, Hunston following closely behind him.

Now Hunston got near enough to him to see that he was really trying to
get little Emily and Paquita to take care of him for a time, and walk
with him in the grounds.

"There will be two of them to take care of," said Hunston, following
them up as closely as was prudent; "that complicates matters. I hope
Matteo has taken his measures carefully."

Matteo had.

They drew near to the entrance of the maze, and then Hunston began to
look anxiously about him for Matteo and the rest of their accomplices.

"I think we had better return," he heard little Emily say.

Suddenly a whistle was blown, and five or six men sprang out from the
maze.

In less time than it takes to record the outrage, the two girls were
seized and borne off in stout, relentless arms, their cries being
stifled by thick wraps thrown over their heads.

"To the small gate," exclaimed Hunston.

Mole recognised the familiar voice of Hunston, and the whole danger
flashed into his mind at once, sobering him most effectually.

"Hunston, you villain, I know you!" he cried. "And I will lose my life
rather than harm should come to these dear girls."

Hunston turned and faced him savagely.

"If you know me, Mole," he said meaningly, "then beware of me."

Mole's only reply was to grapple with him with all his strength.

But the foolish old man was hurled to the ground, and then one of the
brigands fell upon him, brandishing a huge knife.

Hunston here interfered, and gave a command which made the men laugh
very heartily.

A fresh outrage was perpetrated, and in the space of two minutes, Mr.
Mole found himself alone, and on his back.

"Hunston, you black-hearted thief," he cried, "I'll follow you if--"

He tried to rise, but down he went again.

He was lop-sided.

And why?

The brigands had amputated one of his wooden legs.

       *       *       *       *       *

Leaving them for a moment, let us return to Mathias.

That daring scoundrel was not satisfied with having escaped a great
danger scot free, and made a very rich prize, but he must needs return
to the Palazzo Maraviglia in another dress, in quest of fresh plunder.

The fact was that he was flushed with wine.

Else he would have thought twice of returning.

Mingling with the crowd in the large ball-room, he came to a group
discussing the late robbery in great excitement, and as he was pressing
forward to learn what he could, he became entangled in a lady's lace
flounces.

He turned sharply to apologise, and recognised the figure at once.

"The lovely Marietta," Mathias exclaimed.

She heard him, and made off to the other end of the room, closely
followed by Mathias, who had conceived a violent fancy for her.

"Stay, Senorita," he exclaimed, seizing her hand.

"What do you want with me?" said Marietta.

"Only to plead--"

"Nonsense," she exclaimed, interrupting him abruptly; "you don't know
me."

"Let me plead--"

"Bother!"

"Nay," said the persistent robber, "if you will not hear me speak, hear
me sing."

And then, being an admirable mimic, he imitated her strut before the
looking-glass, and general coquettish behaviour in the dressing-room at
the villa, while he sang in a falsetto voice--

                        "Sweet Marietta,
                           Rarely has been
                         A sweeter or better
                           Face or form seen.
                         Dear Marietta!"

"Hah!" cried the girl, starting back as if she had been shot.

Her first impulse was to faint.

But as soon as she gained the cooler air without, she recovered, and
collecting her senses a little, she gave a pretty shrewd guess at the
truth.

She was silly, yet not a bad-natured girl.

She saw her duty plainly enough.

She must make herself known at once to her master.

Harkaway was close at hand, discussing the robbery still with
Jefferson.

The whole of this party were of course known to Marietta; so she made
straight up to Harkaway, and said hurriedly--

"Have that man seized, sir--see, that one who is following me. I am
Marietta. He has just said something to me which convinces me that he
was hiding in the villa to-night."

"Hullo!" exclaimed Harkaway, not a little startled at this sudden
address; "why, what in Heaven's name--"

"Lose no time," interrupted Marietta eagerly, "or he will go--see, he
has taken the alarm."

"The girl's right," said Jefferson, striding off after Mathias.

The latter now began to perceive that he had made a false step, and he
hurried through the crowded room towards the door, and was just passing
out, when a dwarfed and ugly figure leaped upon him.

So sudden was the attack that Mathias was capsized, and together they
rolled upon the floor.

"Let go!" said the Greek fiercely, "or I'll--"

"Not me!" exclaimed Magog Brand--for he was the Greek's assailant. "I
know you, my yellow-feathered devil, even though you have shed your
skin!"

"Let go," hissed the Greek brigand, with compressed lips, "or I'll have
your life!"

"I'll not let go," cried the brave little Brand. "I have got you,
villain, and will hold you. Ah!"

Mathias scrambled up, and tried to fly, but he was met with a blow from
Jefferson's fist which might have felled an ox in the shambles.

He dropped lifeless on the ground beside Magog,

And then a sudden outcry arose, for it was found that in that brief
struggle poor Magog Brand had been cruelly used.

A long-bladed poignard was buried up to the hilt in his side.

Poor Brand.

Death must have been almost instantaneous.

They tore the mask from Mathias' face, and thereupon an agent of the
secret police stepped forward and made known who it was.

"This is the notorious Mathias," he said. "One of the most daring of
the brigands hereabouts; we have been wanting him badly for some time
past"

"You have got him," said Harkaway, "but oh!" he added, glancing at the
lifeless form of Magog Brand, "at what a price for us!"

At this juncture Harvey reached the spot, and taking in the whole scene
at a glance, he dropped on his knees beside the body of Magog Brand,
where Jefferson was already kneeling, seemingly half stupefied by the
catastrophe.

"He has fainted," said he to Harvey.

Harvey shook his head mournfully.

"He'll never faint again, Jefferson."

"What?"

"Never."

"You surely--no, no, Brand, dear old boy, look up."

He faltered and broke down.

"Yes, Jefferson," said Harvey in deep emotion. "Poor Magog Brand is at
the end of his troubles and pleasures alike--he is dead!"

[Illustration: "'MURDER! ABDUCTION! SHOUTED MOLE HUNSTON IS HERE"--ADV
IN GREECE VOL II PAGE 39.]




CHAPTER V.

THE PURSUIT OF THE BRIGANDS--THE BATTLE--VARYING FORTUNES--HOW
HUNSTON AND TORO WERE LAID BY THE HEELS.


Consternation was upon every face.

The catastrophe was so sudden and unlocked for, that the people about
were half stupefied with fear.

On one side lay poor Magog Brand, lately so full of life and animation.

On the other was his assassin, felled by the dead man's best friend,
the doughty Jefferson, and with scarcely more life in him than his
victim.

And while the people were staring hopelessly at each other thus, a
voice was heard giving the alarm hard by.

"Poor Brand, your murderer shall not escape," said Jefferson bitterly.

The noise continued, and presently the voice was recognised.

"It is Mole," cried Harkaway.

He was right.

Just then the poor old gentleman appeared upon the scene.

"Harkaway, Jefferson, Harvey!" he cried.

"What's the matter?"

"Murder!" returned Mole. "Hunston is here."

"By Heaven! I thought it," ejaculated Jefferson.

"He has carried off Emily and Paquita."

"What?"

"I interfered, but they were too many for me. See how they have used
me."

"Was he with the brigands?" demanded Harkaway.

"I suppose so. A whole mob of ruffians."

"Where are they gone?"

"By the small gate."

A hurried explanation ensued with the agent of the secret police, who
gave them a few words of comfort.

"He'll never be able to pass my men at the gate," said the officer,
with great confidence.

This was doubtful.

They knew too well Hunston's boldness and audacity.

But they lost no time in getting up a pursuit.

The contessa's stables were well furnished, and two horses were
speedily saddled for Harkaway and Jefferson.

Harvey, too impatient to wait for a mount, had rushed wildly away in
the direction of the small gate, followed by Mr. Mole.

Here he saw to his dismay that a scramble had taken place, in which the
gendarmes had got decidedly the worst of it.

The two who had been on guard at the gate had got very roughly handled,
one having a broken crown and the other showing an ugly wound in the
side.

"They have gone this way, then?" exclaimed Harvey, eagerly.

"Yes."

"Which way?"

"They made for the right," faltered one of the wounded men.

"Is it long?"

"No; a few moments."

"They can not get far," said the gendarme with the broken pate; "the
two girls were struggling hard with him."

"Hurrah!" cried Harvey. "I'll save my child yet."

"You are not the first in the hunt," said the other gendarme, speaking
with evident pain; "there are two black men after them."

"That must be Sunday and Monday," exclaimed Harvey.

And off he ran.

He bounded over the ground like a deer, and when he got about half a
mile further on, he came suddenly upon two men struggling.

One of them was a negro.

Who, in fact, but our old friend the Prince of Limbi, the faithful
Monday?

The other was one of the Greeks, a face unknown to Harvey, but one who
has already figured in these pages.

Matteo!

And lying on the ground near him was a brigand struck down dead by
brave Monday.

As Harvey came up, it was nearing the end of what had been a precious
tough fight. Monday was uppermost, and Matteo, who had gradually
succumbed to the wiry negro, was by this time in a very queer way
indeed.

Monday held him by the throat, and in spite of his desperate efforts to
set himself free, Matteo had lost his breath.

And there he lay completely at the negro's mercy.

"There, you dam tief!" exclaimed the Prince of Limbi, "take dat, an'
dat, an' dat, an' now, be golly, have dis for a little bit in."

At every word he pressed harder and harder and jerked his adversary
back.

The "little bit in" settled Matteo completely.

Something seemed to crack in the wretched Greek's throat, and he
dropped back.

"Monday, Monday!" said Harvey, eagerly, "where are they?"

"Hullo, Massa Dick!" said faithful Monday; "I'se gwine to give this
fellar toko an' den I'll jine yar."

"He's done for," said Dick, hastily. "Come now."

"He might come too," said Monday, in some doubt.

"No fear."

"Perhaps."

"Why, he'll never trouble anyone more," returned Harvey; "tell me,
where have they gone?"

"They went straight on."

"This road?"

"Yes."

"Good. Come or stay. I'll go," exclaimed Harvey.

And off he ran.

Monday gave his silent enemy a shake to see if it was all over.

"He's a gone coon," he said to himself. "I'll bolt off after Massa
Dick."

Away he ran at a good swinging trot.

In about ten minutes more he came up with him.

And this was under the most alarming circumstances.

Not very long after this a horseman dashed up to the spot, and only
drew rein to give a glance at the lifeless form of the wretched Matteo.

"He's dead," said the horseman, who was none other than Jack Harkaway.
"This looks like some of Dick's handiwork. Dick or some of our party. I
hope Dick is safe." Saying which, he whipped up his horse, and tore on
at a mad gallop.

A very few moments after this he came up with the brigands with their
captives.

Just in the nick of time.

Hunston and Toro were there both with their hands full, while the
Greeks had all their work to do to take care of the two captive girls.

Little Emily and Paquita, having now recovered from their surprise,
were lending assistance to the cause by keeping all the Greeks fully
occupied in looking after them.

And while they were thus occupied, Sunday and Dick Harvey were engaged
with Toro and Hunston.

Dick had rushed so violently upon Hunston that the latter was toppled
over, and it looked as though Harvey was about to make short work with
their old enemy.

But alas for Sunday!

The poor negro was overmatched.

His heart was good, but the weight and enormous strength of the Italian
were too much for him to vanquish.

That he had not as yet succumbed to Toro, was due only to his vastly
superior agility and activity.

It was all in vain for the Italian ruffian to try and close with him.

Sunday would not have this.

He knew that his chance lay in keeping Toro at a respectful distance.

And so he danced round him, dropping in an occasional smart rap which
goaded the Italian to fury.

"Help!" cried Hunston. "Cut him down! cut him down!"

One of the brigands rushed at Harvey knife in hand, and thus created a
momentary diversion in his favour.

Had not Harkaway just then appeared upon the scene it might have gone
hard with his comrade Dick.

Prompt, however, to act at this critical juncture, Harkaway spurred his
horse into the group and rode them down.

Then reining up, he flung himself from his horse, and went into the
melee.

"I'm in it, Dick, old boy," cried Jack; "here's one for Harkaway."

"Hurrah!" shouted Dick, in great excitement. "A Harkaway! a Harkaway to
the rescue!"

Toro turned to Harkaway with a cry of rage.

"Curse you!" he exclaimed; "I'll have your life now, or you shall have
mine."

"By all means," said old Jack, cheerfully.

"Cur!"

"Come, now," said Harkaway, with subdued rage, "I can't stand that;
take this!"

And before Toro knew where he was, he got it.

It was not as pleasant as he could have wished when he did get it.

A devil of a thud it came upon his nose, a fair blow with Harkaway's
fist, and being delivered straight from the shoulder, it seemed to the
Italian like the kick of a donkey.

Toro shook all over.

His eyes flashed fireworks, and he was half stunned for the moment.

Harkaway's triumph was but temporary.

One of the Greeks, who was watching the conflict between these giants
of the combat in great interest, had by now crept up behind Jack, and
seizing him suddenly round the middle, hurled him to the ground.

"Ha, ha!" yelled Toro.

And bounding forward, he fell upon Harkaway, knife in hand.

"At last, at last, your life is in my hands," he cried in fiend-like
joy.

The knife gleamed in the air.

A piercing shriek from little Emily was heard.

A cry of fear from Paquita, and suddenly the latter, disengaging
herself from her captors, bounded forward and seized Toro by the hair.

She dragged him back with all her strength, and little as it was, it
saved the life of Jack Harkaway.

Jack put forth all his strength at this most critical juncture, and
succeeded in grappling once more with his herculean opponent.

Toro lost his balance.

A moment more and he was rolling upon the ground in deadly battle with
brave Jack Harkaway.

So fierce a strife could not last long.

In the heat of the combat cries were heard encouraging Harkaway and
Harvey to fresh exertions, and up dashed the bold Monday, closely
followed by Jefferson and several gentlemen from the contessa's fête.

The Greeks now began to lose heart.

The odds were veering round to the wrong side.

Greeks can fight moderately well when they are three or four to one
Englishman, but when the numbers are equal, they do not care to provoke
hostilities.

And so they blew upon their whistles for assistance, and soon the
answering calls came in every direction, causing the gravest fears to
the Harkaway faction.

"Hah!" ejaculated Jefferson; "they are coming to help you. But at least
I'll make sure of you, Master Toro."

The Italian did not shirk the encounter.

Toro, to do him justice, was, with all his faults, no coward.

He had felt the weight of Jefferson's arm, and he had reason to
remember it.

Yet he met his old adversary boldly.

Jefferson fell upon the huge Italian with tiger-like fury, and in spite
of his prodigious size and weight, he lifted him in his arms, swung him
round, and hurled him to the ground.

The Greeks now, seeing their leaders in such dire peril, thought of
avenging themselves by the most dastardly o| expedients.

"Kill the girls!" cried one of them.

The hint was caught up with avidity.

A savage yell responded to the bloodthirsty suggestion, and the lives
of the two innocent girls were in real peril.

"Look to the girls!" shouted Dick Harvey, who was fully occupied with
two of the Greek brigands who were pressing him closely.

There was a cheer in response to this appeal, and over went two of the
Greeks.

Jefferson too lent a hand at this juncture.

Finding himself free from Toro's attentions, for the huge Italian had
received such a desperate shaking with his fall that he was not fit for
much now, he rushed into the _mêlée_, and dealt out such slogging
blows that there were at least a dozen bleeding noses and black eyes
distributed amongst the bandits in rather less time than it takes to
note the fact.

The Greeks were thoroughly discouraged.

This unpleasant British mode of attack was not at all to their liking.

They could do pretty well with knives or swords, or even with firearms,
but they could only regard men who used their fists in the lights of
savages.

Gradually they retreated before the fierce onslaught of the Britishers
and their gallant Yankee ally.

This was no small triumph.

The brigands mustered at least twenty men.

Their enemies were five.

The five were Harkaway, Harvey, Jefferson, and the two negroes Sunday
and Monday.

The chicken-hearted Greeks, however, did not altogether turn tail, for
ere they could get fairly off this hardly-contested field, they
received considerable reinforcements.

About ten more Greeks put in an appearance.

A ragged, ruffianly crew, and ill armed.

The Harkaway party were not armed at all.

The Greeks fell back and made attempts to re-form in something like
good order.

But Jefferson saw the danger, and he followed them up closely.

Jack and Dick Harvey were at his heels.

Neither of our old friends were inferior to the bold Jefferson in
courage; but they did not possess his great advantages of size and
strength.

Jefferson's right arm went out like a battering ram, and each time he
struck out, down dropped his man.

At all events, the brigands did not give any particular signs of coming
up for a repetition dose.

The huge American dashed into the thick of the enemy.

The assassination of poor little Magog Brand had fired his fury, and
his charge was something terrific.

He dashed into the midst of the half cowed bandits, and swinging his
arms around him like the sails of a windmill, he "grassed" a man at
every stroke.

But this could not last for long.

As the Greeks grew stronger in numbers, they stood upon the defensive.

They were reassured.

They had seven-and-twenty men against the five.

The five, too, large-hearted though they were, had the two girls to
look after.

Amongst the latest comers upon the bandits' side was one man who was a
petty officer of the brigands, and he gave a few hurried commands,
which had the effect of putting Harkaway and his friends into a very
awkward predicament.

"Load and fire," said the brigand, "Shoot them all down."

If they could but succeed in getting a shot or two at the bold
Jefferson, or at any of the party, it would speedily be all over with
them.

But now, when individual bravery could no longer avail them, they had a
rare slice of luck.

Suddenly a rattling volley of musketry was heard, and three of the
Greeks bit the dust, while a number of cries told that several were
hit.

And then a detachment of gendarmes dashed up into the open at a
swinging trot.

And who headed this very welcome party?

Who but two youths that have been heard of before in these pages?

Who indeed but young Jack Harkaway and his friend Harry Girdwood?




CHAPTER VI.

SUNDAY RUBS OFF AN OLD SCORE--THE BRIGANDS--WHAT HAPPENED AT
THE PORTER'S LODGE--A STRANGE BLIND BEGGAR.


"Hurrah!"

"Give them another."

"Load again."

"Another volley."

A rapid, irregular discharge followed, and the Greeks, with cries of
fear and rage, dropped their arms and fled precipitately, panic-stricken.

The gendarmes followed them up, and several were knocked over and
secured; and behind them the brigands had left no less than seven of
their number who had not been able to get off.

Amongst those seven were two men that it was no small gratification to
the Harkaway party to see once more in their power.

These two men were Hunston and Toro the Italian.

Sunday stood over the latter, leathering into his half insensible
carcase in a way that threatened to cover it with bruises; and at every
blow he had something fresh to say.

"Take dat!" he exclaimed, punching into Toro's ribs, "you dam nigger."

Toro, dazed with what he had suffered in his shaking, could offer no
resistance.

"And dere's another, you ugly tief!" said the virtuous Sunday. "I'll
gib you what for; you shall hab what Paddy gib the drum, you 'fernal
black skunk; I show yar what John up the orchard is, you--you Italian
organ-grinding sweep--You chestnut-munching beast!"

Sunday had never forgotten his first acquaintance with Toro.

The reader will doubtless bear it in mind, since with it is connected
one of the most startling episodes of Jack Harkaway's history, in his
voyage round the world with young Jack.

It was at the hotel in New York that the Harkaways first met with
Sunday, too, for here they were the means of rescuing him from the
brutal violence of the ruffian Toro.

It was, in fact, this which led up to that scene of terror--the firing
of the hotel by Hunston and Toro.

Sunday had suffered at Toro's hands, but had never had his whack back.

But now the darkey showed the half insensible Italian the full
signification of "John up de orchard," and likewise of "what for," and
"what Paddy gave the drum."

       *       *       *       *       *

Hunston and Toro were thrown into prison, with the few brigands
captured and their discomfited chieftain Mathias.

Such was the end of their exploit.

When once they were in prison, however, it required some exertion on
the part of the authorities to keep them there.

The gang were unceasing in their endeavours to release them.

Artifices of every kind were tried to accomplish it, but the Harkaways
had foreseen that no stone would be left unturned by the murderous
friends of the captured robbers; and they knew the good old-fashioned
saying--"forewarned, forearmed.'"

The prison in which they we re confined was situated at the waterside,
and it was approachable by boat, where the entrance was beneath a low,
vaulted archway.

The day after the capture of the notorious robbers, a poor cripple
hobbled up to the porter's lodge, dragging himself painfully along by
the aid of a stick in one hand and a crutch under his other arm.

"Move off," said the porter gruffly; "we have nothing to give away
here."

"I don't ask your charity," replied the cripple humbly; "accept this,
good sir, as a peace offering."

And then, to the porter's surprise, he dropped a coin into his hand.

The porter looked hard at the coin in his hand, and then at the
cripple.

He was a man of no sentiment, this porter, and so he asked the generous
donor bluntly what he wanted for the money.

"I only want you to show some consideration and kindness, if possible,
to some of the unfortunate inmates of this place," was the reply.

"Prisoners?"

"Yes."

"If you expect that," said the porter "you had better take back your
money, for I have nothing to do with the prisoners."

The cripple looked grave, and he muttered to himself--

"This fool is beastly conscientious. If he had only proved a bit of a
rogue, there was a chance--the ass!"

But he did not mean to yield the point yet.

"You are a very good man," he said to the porter, "a worthy honest
fellow, and you will know that I don't mean to offer you any thing like
a bribe."

The porter started.

"A bribe!" he said, with an expletive. "You had better not."

"Ahem!" coughed the cripple. "My friend, I have confined in this prison
my son, a poor misguided boy--"

"They are mostly that," said the porter shortly.

"But he is innocent."

"They are all innocent," said the porter.

"All?"

"According to their own showing."

"But my boy is."

"No doubt"

"And I only want to beg you to do what you can to soften his lot--a
hard lot it is, too."

"I can do nothing, I tell you," said the porter; "I never see the
prisoners."

"I thought--"

"At least, when I say never, I mean only when they are allowed to walk
in the prison yard."

"That is here?"

"Yes."

"When is that?"

"Once a day; sometimes more than that, if the doctor orders it."

"The doctor must order it, then?" said the cripple to himself.

"What is your son in for?" asked the porter.

"For an unfortunate resemblance he bears to a notorious brigand."

"Bah!" exclaimed the porter. "They don't imprison a man for being like
another."

"Yes, they do; my unlucky son has been taken for Mathias the brigand."

"What," ejaculated the doorkeeper, "do you mean that Mathias is not
Mathias?"

"I mean that my son has been taken for Mathias, to whom, indeed, he is
so like that nothing but the capture of the real culprit can save my
son."

The doorkeeper eyed the cripple sharply.

But the latter stood it coolly enough.

"Well," said the door porter, "if that is the case, it is certainly a
very hard job for your son. What do you want me to do for him? I can't
let him out."

"My friend," exclaimed the cripple, "think you I would suggest such a
thing? No, all I would ask of you is to soothe him with a kind word."

"I'll tell him when next he comes out."

"At what time did you say?" asked the cripple, looking on the ground as
though he only put the question casually.

"At twelve."

The cripple's eyes glistened as he heard this.

"Well, well," he said, pressing some more money into the door porter's
hand, "I'll call again, and perhaps you may have seen my boy, and
comforted him with the assurance that I'll save him, in spite of all
the ill these accursed English people can work by the aid of their
money."

"Oh, that's it, is it?" said the porter. "The English are at work in
it, eh?"

"Yes. They owe him some spite, and money, you know, can buy any thing--
any thing." And blessing the gatekeeper, he hobbled off.

       *       *       *       *       *

Near the prison he overtook a blind man begging by the roadside, and
while stopping to drop a coin in his hat, the cripple contrived to
whisper a few hurried words to this effect--

"I have made a step--almost made a breach in the fortress."

"You have!"

And the blind man turned his head to the right and to the left, almost
as though looking out to see if they were unwatched.

"Yes; the prison yard is only the other side of the gate. Now that gate
is kept by a porter who is already in our interest."

"Good, good, Tomaso!" quoth the blind man.

"Now, listen."

"Go on," returned the blind man, in an eager tone.

"At noon the prisoners are in the yard. If we could but get that gate
open for an instant, and have our men ready hereabouts for a rush--"

"Yes, yes."

"Who can tell what may happen?"

"Good again--good again! ha, ha, ha! that's brave, that is. Why, the
mob of idle sightseers who crowd about the prison gates at noon to
watch the prisoners might all be poor blind wretches or helpless
cripples like you and I."

"Of course."

"And if the gate is left open but one instant--a single inch, no more--
why, worlds might be done."

"A horse ready saddled near at hand might be worth thinking of."

"True."

"And a small keg of gunpowder blown up under the archway by the
waterside entrance would divert attention."

"Tomaso," ejaculated the blind man, "you're born to be a captain of
brigands some day!"




CHAPTER VII.

HOW TOMASO HELPED HIS FRIENDS IN TROUBLE--THE SKIRMISH IN THE
PRISON--MATHIAS THE BRIGAND.


Tomaso, before the day was over, changed his garments and abandoned
crutch and stick, and when he turned out with flaxen-dyed hair and
spectacles, and presented himself at the other great entrance of the
prison, as a German traveller who desired to go over the place, no one
could possibly have imagined it to be the old cripple whose paternal
lamentation had so touched the doorkeeper's heart.

"You have got here a notorious brigand, as I have heard tell," said the
visitor.

"We have, sir," was the governor's reply; "a very remarkable man he is,
too."

"Ah, so I have heard," said the visitor. "He is called Demetrius, I
believe?"

"Nay; his name is Mathias."

The visitor looked surprised at this information.

"Mathias--Mathias!" he repeated to himself. "I was misinformed, then. I
certainly thought that his name was Demetrius."

The governor smiled.

"You may be right, all the same," said he.

"How so?"

"Why, Mathias is but his avowed name; he may be known by a dozen
different _aliases_."

"Is it possible?" ejaculated the sham German traveller.

"Indeed it is. These robbers are mostly adepts at disguise. Would you
like to see this Mathias?" demanded the governor, courteously.

"Vastly."

"Well, sir, I'll only warn you of one thing."

"Indeed! What is it?"

"A disappointment awaits you in this."

"How so?"

"Instead of seeing a ferocious fellow, such as you might expect,
Mathias is really a very pleasant and innocent-looking man."

The governor of the prison then led the visitors through the long stone
corridors of the place where Mathias was confined.

They stopped before a door of great thickness, heavily barred, and
studded with iron bolts and nails.

The governor tapped at a small grated trap in the door, and it was
pulled aside.

At the grating a broad-shouldered fellow appeared, who touched his cap
at the visitors.

"So that is Mathias," said the German gentleman.

"No, no," said the governor; "that is the gaoler who is shut up with
him."

"What for?"

"So that he might be watched night and day; the authorities have doomed
him to--"

"To what?"

"To death," replied the governor, in a low but impressive voice.

"He is young."

"In years, yes," answered the governor, "but old in crime. This man has
been guilty of nearly every crime under the sun--brigandage is one of
his least offences. His last exploit, however, is the worst."

"What is that?"

"Murder."

"Murder!"

And the German traveller looked inexpressibly shocked.

"Murder is a capital crime in every land."

"And rightly too," said the visitor, "rightly, too. But, sir, excuse my
curiosity--"

"Ask all you will," returned the governor.

"This man had, I was told, a bold, dashing fellow to second him in all
his exploits."

"An Italian?"

"No."

"An Englishman?"

"No, no, sir, you mistake; I mean a Greek--a handsome, dashing fellow--
a great favourite with the ladies--brave and daring."

"And how is this Apollo called?"

"Tomaso."

The governor burst into a loud fit of laughter at this,

"You are altogether mistaken about that brigand--that Tomaso. He is a
scrubby and ill-favoured scamp--a sneaking, crawling rascal, capable of
all the villany of his master, but not possessed of his courage."

Had the governor been looking at the visitor's face just then, he might
have had his suspicions aroused.

The sham German philanthropist glared ferociously as this description
was given.

The prisoner, who was seated at a rough deal table at the further end
of the cell, here arose at the gaoler's order, and came to the window.

A single glance sufficed to show that a very noticeable change had
taken place in the appearance of Mathias.

His face was pale and haggard, and the whole of one side of it, the
eye, cheek bone, and forehead were bruised.

This was the mark that Jefferson had set upon him.

This was the bold American's only vengeance for the deathblow which the
brigand had dealt upon his faithful friend and companion Magog Brand.

Jefferson's right arm came down like a steam hammer, and any man who
had felt its full force as the scoundrel Mathias had did not forget it
very readily.

Such a desperate shaking had it given Mathias that he had not yet
recovered.

The bold, defiant bearing of the man was gone, and he looked ten years
older than when Tomaso and he had last met.

It struck the visitor at once.

"Dear, dear me," exclaimed the latter, "is it possible that this can be
the redoubtable Mathias?"

"It is he," said the governor, "yet scarcely so gay as is his wont, eh,
Mathias?"

The prisoner shrugged his shoulders and sighed.

"Laugh on, your excellency," he said, rather bitterly, "it is your turn
now."

"Now!"

"Aye, now. It may not always be."

"Why, surely you never think of getting out of this?"

"Indeed, I think of nothing else morning, noon, and night."

The governor gave a sharp glance about.

He looked toward the gaoler.

Now the gaoler was a huge fellow, over six feet high and broad in
proportion, one who could have tackled Toro himself, as far as weight
and sheer brute strength went.

"Your excellency," replied Mathias, "when I leave this place, my exit
will be due to no violence. Bad as I am, I am not altogether what they
would make out."

"Poor Mathias!" said the governor ironically, "one would almost think
that murder was not his line of business."

"Your excellency," said the prison, drawing near to the grated window,
"I repent sincerely of that poor little gentleman's death; it was no
assassin's stab in the dark, but a most unfortunate blow in a fight,
remember,"

"Bravo! Mathias! bravo!" ejaculated the visitor.

The prisoner looked up.

A strange expression flitted across his face.

Mathias was an adept in the art of dissimulation, and his face was
schooled to tell neither more nor less than he wished.

"Now, your excellency," said the visitor, "this rascal appears
strangely self-possessed."

"He does."

"What does it mean?"

"Brag."

"Humph!"

"Ah, you do not know him, sir, as well as I do."

"Perhaps not; but it might just be possible that he is in league with
some of his comrades outside."

The governor smiled incredulously.

"Impossible."

"What if that scoundrel, Tomaso, of whom we were speaking, should be at
work?"

The prisoner's eyes glistened at this word.

A slight flash of intelligence passed between the prisoner and the
visitor.

It was but momentary, and so slight as to be utterly unobserved by
either the gaoler or the governor.

"And if such could be the case, sir, what could he possibly do, eh?
What on earth, that's what I ask."

"There's no saying."

"Indeed you're right."

"Only he ought to be well guarded when you change him from one prison
to another, or--"

"Stop, stop, my dear sir, why change him? He will never leave this
place alive," said the governor.

"Never?"

"Never!"

"But surely you don't keep your prisoners all confined in these
stifling places?"

"We do, though."

"And never let them breathe the air? Why, it is torture."

"They do breathe the air. At noon every day they are allowed to walk
for an hour in the prison yard."

"At noon?"

"At noon."

The visitor fixed his eyes strangely upon the prisoner.

"Very good; if I may be allowed to trespass again, I should like to see
how this fellow bears himself in the yard amongst his fellow-criminals."

"By all means."

"I'll come, then, at noon."

       *       *       *       *       *

At noon next day the German traveller was as good as his word.

The governor, full of his wonted courtesy, accompanied him to the yard,
where all the prisoners were walking round two and two.

Some of the more desperate men were fastened by a single handcuff to
the wrist of another man--a warder.

Of this category was the brigand Mathias.

His companion was a huge fellow, who topped him by a head and
shoulders, and their wrists were linked securely together by a strong--
if slender--pair of handcuffs.

The visitor's countenance fell when he observed this.

It upset all his plans at one fell swoop.

However, he did not utterly despair, but made an effort to get over the
difficulty.

"Your excellency," said he, "this is indeed cruel."

"What," demanded the governor, "fastening them to the gaoler?"

"Yes."

"I only order it in special cases, such as that of Mathias."

"He is then very dangerous?"

"Well, I scarcely believe that, only such precautions are the
established rules."

"I regret that."

"Why?"

"Partly on the score of humanity," was the reply.

"Ah, you would be too tender-hearted," said the governor.

"No. But I also regret it because I hoped to see the brigand more like
he appears when not under restraint. I suppose you would not like to
set him free?"

The governor shook his head.

"That is against custom, and I should really not like to do it."

The visitor reflected a moment as they walked on.

He could not abandon his scheme now that he had gone so far.

The effort should be made all the same.

They walked up to the porter's lodge beside the gates, where an eager
crowd had assembled for a glimpse of the prisoners.

"And do you open those gates to admit the prisoners?" asked the visitor
innocently.

"No, sir," replied the governor; "this little side door is all we open.
Now watch how it is done. This bar, which is like a lever, stops the
door, and renders it immovable, now--hah!"

The fallacy of his words was shown ere they were fairly uttered.

The visitor whistled in a very peculiar way.

And there was a sudden silent rush at the door in question.

The bar, immovable as it was, fell before that desperate onslaught, and
the door was carried off its hinges.

The ragged and miserable-looking mob turned like magic into a crowd of
armed desperadoes. And in they pressed.

On they came, tearing down the gates and dashing every thing before
them.

The poor gatekeeper was trampled under foot, and the warders and
governor got hustled and cruelly handled.

The mob of armed invaders made for Mathias and his companion, and bore
them bodily outside the gates.

The brigands then wrenched off the handcuffs.

Once outside the gates, a horse was found waiting.

Suddenly there was a loud cry heard.

"The soldiers--the soldiers!"

The whole of the guard-room had turned out.

A charge was made, and it looked as though the rescue of Mathias were
likely to cost them dear.

Cries of defiance and rage were heard.

Just when matters were at the worst for the robber band, a deafening
explosion was heard, that shook the solid building to its base.

The soldiers turned back and re-formed at their officer's command.

Then it was that the brigands, headed by the sham visitor, Tomaso,
found their chance.

Up till now, the retreat had been cut off by the unpleasant appearance
of the military.

"There goes the powder keg under the water gate," cried Tomaso. "Lose
not a moment. Follow me."

A desperate rush was made, and the brigands got clear of the prison.

The soldiers were divided into two lots, one party being sent in
pursuit, the other remaining to guard the prison.

The roll-call of the prisoners made this discovery.

"How many prisoners have escaped?" inquired the governor.

"Three absentees, your excellency," said the head man of the prison.
"One is an Italian, calling himself Toro; another an Englishman,
calling himself Hunston; and the third, the brigand chief Mathias."




CHAPTER VIII.

A DEEP-LAID PLOT.


The news of the escape, or rescue--call it what you will--of the three
desperadoes soon became known.

Emily and Mrs. Harvey were much alarmed.

The dogged obstinacy with which attempt after attempt was made by the
villains made them imagine they were unsafe in such a lonely place.

Accordingly, a grand consultation was held, the result of which was
that the Prince of Limbi was sent into the town to take rooms for the
whole party at one of the two hotels the place could boast of.

And the next day they all quitted the villa.

The hotel in which our friends had secured apartments was a large
straggling building, right at the extremity of the ill-built street
which formed the chief part of the town.

Mr. Mole had been very particular when they went there in his inquiries
about the brigands.

Would the party be quite safe from molestation?

The urbane proprietor, with many low bows, assured his excellency the
Englishman that there was not the slightest possibility of their being
molested.

The other male members of the party really troubled themselves very
little about the brigands.

By ten o'clock, the day after the masquerade, hardly a person was
stirring in the town.

A casual observer would have said there was literally no one to be
seen. But hush!

Soft, cautious footsteps may be heard, and anyone whose eyes are
accustomed to the gloom might have seen three figures creeping quietly
down the street on the side opposite the hotel.
Right over against that building they paused.

"That is the place" said one of the three, a giant almost in size.

"Curse them! they always manage to get comfortable quarters, while I am
an outcast," said another, who spoke like an Englishman.

"Death, gentlemen! what better quarters can you desire than my cave, in
which you have spent several pleasant evenings?"

"Bah! Captain Mathias, you have never tasted the sweets of
civilisation."

"And, Signor Hunstani, how much the better are you through having
tasted those sweets?"

"Peace, peace!" growled the giant. "Let us unite in thought and action,
and to-night obtain our long-sought revenge."

"Well, Toro, I am sure I don't want to quarrel with anyone, except
Harkaway."

"Curse him! and especially that American."

"Hush! let your curses be not loud but deep; you'll awake the town if
you swear so."

"Have I not good cause to? Has he not beaten and put me to shame?"

"And have I not suffered equal pain and shame? Yet I am content to bide
my time; you should have patience, Toro."

"Come, come to business, my friends," said Captain Mathias; "there is
the house where our foe resides. How are we to proceed?"

"Quietly; hush!" said Hunston. "Confound it, how still the air is; the
whole street seems to echo back the lightest whisper."

"Let me get once inside, and I care not if all the street hears,"
muttered Toro.

"Which proves you care not if you are unsuccessful," said the Greek.

"How so?"

"If we are heard, we shall have the whole street in arms against us,
and I fancy these Inglesi, with their boys and the blacks, are quite
sufficient for the three of us."

"Bah!" exclaimed Toro.

"Seriously, though, let us consider how to get into this place," said
Hunston.

"There's the door facing us."

"But have you the key?"

"No, but I could send my foot through that plank as easily as
anything," growled Toro.

"Certainly, and you would undoubtedly alarm the whole household by
doing so, whereas we wish to catch them sleeping."

"Well, then, how about the windows?"

"Too high to reach," said Hunston, "unless we had a ladder."

"And I doubt if such a thing can be found in the town," interposed
Captain Mathias.

"Well, then, let us see what there is at the back of the house.
Captain, you have eyes like a cat or an owl; just glance up and down
the street to see if there is anyone about."

The Greek looked in all directions.

"Not even a mouse is stirring," said he.

So the three villains, drawing their cloaks closely round them, stole
silently away from the shelter of the friendly doorway, where the
foregoing conversation had taken place, and proceeded round to the back
of the hotel.

To reach the point desired, they had, of course, to cross the road,
which was tolerably wide, and then skirt a kind of paddock.

There were few stars to be seen, and the moon--a new one, and perhaps
not yet fully acquainted with her business--was partly hidden behind
some clouds, though not so entirely obscured but that the forms of the
three brigands cast deep shadows on the ground.

But surely that is not a shadow, which as they move, moves also from an
adjoining doorway, and follows them.

Like them, it is wrapped in a cloak; like them, it stalks along slowly
and erect, but unlike them, it makes no noise.

Its footfall is silent as that of the panther lurking in the jungle.

Its very breath, if it has any, seems hushed.

The three villains go slowly, and the shadow, or substance, whatever it
may be, keeps the same pace, till they reach the open field at the back
of the hotel.

Hunston, Toro, and the Greek then stand side by side looking towards
the hotel, but the shadow sinks down out of sight by the side of the
fence.

Another hasty look round, and then the Greek brigand pronounced that
they were safe.

"No fear of being interrupted here."

"Well now let us settle," said Toro; "I am anxious to be at them."

"But see," said Hunston, "there are lights moving; it is not safe yet."

"Not till half-an-hour after midnight."

"And now---"

"It is half-past ten o'clock."

"Two hours," groaned Toro.

"Better wait four than fail," said Hunston.

"Cold-blooded Englishman, what know you of the furious rate at which my
blood boils in my veins? In that house is the man who struck me to the
earth."

"Wait two hours, then you may have a good chance of paying off the
score."

"And I will, too, with greater interest than even usurer charged his
hapless client. I wonder which room the cursed Americano sleeps in."

"The third room on the right-hand side of the first corridor, where you
ascend the great staircase."

Captain Mathias said this as promptly and positively as though he
himself had shown our friends to bed.

After a pause he continued--

"Mr. and Mrs. Harkaway have the first room; Mr. and Mrs. Harvey the
second; the third is a double-bedded apartment, one couch being
occupied by the American, the other by the two boys."

"You seem to have pretty exact information, captain," said Hunston.

"Yes, there is little going on there that does not come to my ears. One
of the porters is a spy in my employ."

"Why did you not get a key from him?"

"I have one; it opens the back door."

Toro had, during the last bit of conversation, been growling to himself
a choice vocabulary of Italian oaths, occasionally shaking his fist at
the building which contained the objects of his hatred.

He now turned to his companions.

"And where do you propose to pass the two hours that must elapse?"

"At the bottom of yonder field is a thicket, where we shall be free
from observation. We can smoke our pipes there. By-the-bye, the patrol
goes round about midnight."

"We must be cautious," said Hunston.

"Come along, then."

The three villains then walked off in the direction of the thicket
where they were to hide.

A minute afterwards a shadow rose from the ditch where he had been
crouching, and stood looking after them long after they had been lost
in the gloom.

"Just in time," muttered the so-called shadow, who was in good truth as
substantial flesh and blood as any in Greece.

"If I had not wandered hither in search of my daughter, probably half-
a-dozen murders would have been committed. However, I'll thwart the
rascals, as sure as my name is Petrus."

For Petrus it was, from Magic Island, who had been playing spy on the
movements of the three conspirators.

He stood there in deep thought for a few minutes.

"I must warn some of the people in the hotel, but I should like to get
this business over without alarming Mrs. Harkaway or the other lady.
The question is, how?"

He reached the front door of the hotel, and pulled at the bell handle.

After an interval of two or three minutes, a light shone through the
keyhole, and a voice asked--

"Who is there?"

"A traveller, in search of food and bed."

"Are you alone?"

"Yes."

Then the door was unbolted, and the traveller entered.

"Is the proprietor of the hotel in bed yet?" he asked.

"I don't know, sir."

"He must be roused at once. I have important news for him from a
distant land."

The porter stared, but did not seem inclined to call the proprietor,
noticing which, Petrus said--

"I shall be sorry to alarm all the house, when I only want one person;
but if you don't quickly bring him, I'll ring half a dozen of these
bells at such a rate that he'll think the house is on fire."

Seeing the stranger was in earnest, the porter went to the proprietor's
room, and soon returned with him to the hall where Petrus was waiting.

"I should like to have a few words with you _in private_, sir,"
said the traveller, with a strong emphasis on the words we have
italicised.

"Certainly. You may go to bed, Theodorus."

The porter somewhat sulkily retired to a kind of pantry, where he
slept, and the proprietor of the hotel, softly following, turned the
key upon him.

"I have my doubts about that fellow," he said as he returned. "But now,
sir, what is your pleasure with me?"

Petrus at once told him what he had heard, and great was the alarm of
the hotel-keeper.

"What shall we do? Send for the police?"

Petrus, after a short silence, said--

"No."

"What then? I cannot allow my guests to be murdered. Why, these
scoundrels have already made one attempt on Mr. Harkaway and his
friends at a masquerade."

Just at that moment a guttural voice was heard singing--

                     "Ole Ikey Mole
                      Was a lushy ole soul,
                      And a lushy ole soul was he."

"Now den, you nigger, be quiet," said another voice.

"Who are these people?" asked Petrus.

"Two black men in attendance on the Harkaway party," said the
proprietor of the hotel.

"Just the men. I know a little of them. I have fought side by side with
them. Now I have a proposal to make, which is that we put these
brigands to flight in a ludicrous manner, which will annoy them more
than being beaten in fight. Myself and the black men will do it with
your assistance and permission."

"Anything, so that there is no bloodshed."

"That I will guarantee. Please call the two worthy dark-skins."

Sunday and Monday, who had been keeping it up in the kitchen, were
called and acquainted with the state of affairs.

"What, Massa Petrus," said Sunday in surprise, "what you do here? Am
you got dat black rascal pirate with you?"

"No; the pirate chief is dead. You will find his bones on the island--
Magic Island, as young Jack Harkaway named it. Yes, my revenge is
complete. The pirate died as my slave; but now to explain to you my
plan to punish the three brigands."

Sunday rolled his eyes fearfully, as he listened to the details of the
plot.

"Gorra, massa, I'd like to tar and feather dat big rascal."

"Tar!" said Petrus. "Ha, ha, ha! that is a good idea. Listen--but first
show me the place where the gentlemen sleep."

The hotel-keeper led the way to the corridor, and pointed out the
sleeping apartments of the Harkaway party.

Petrus then held another short consultation with the two black men and
the hotel-keeper, the result of which was that the latter retired,
leaving Sunday, Monday, and Petrus to work their will with the invaders
when they appeared.

And then, as there was but little time to spare, they set to work with
a will to make all the necessary preparations.

Over each door they screwed into the wall an iron hook, to which was
attached a pulley and a cord.

Then they went into the lower regions and hunted through the store
rooms.

The first place they lighted upon was a kind of paint shop, full of
paints, oils and such-like things.

"Dis is jes de shop for to cook de goose ob dem willins," said Sunday.

"And here's de pots to cook 'em in," said Monday, pointing to some iron
vessels resembling pails, but made so that the bottoms could be
removed.

The pails, as we will call them, were something like sugar loaves, with
the tops cut off and turned base upwards.

When full, the weight of the liquid kept the bottom in its place, but
it was evident that if the bottom was removed, as it easily could be,
the contents would escape.

Petrus, after an inspection, pronounced them "just the thing," adding--

"Now we must fill them with tar."

"No, no," said Monday. "Put tar in one, wery hot; in nodder put dis
here paint, also werry hot; and in de oder put water, bilin' hot."

"Good."

Then the three sat down by the large fireplace in the kitchen, and
deliberately began their cooking.

Monday devoted his attention to the heating of several pounds of mixed
paint.

Sunday boiled a barrel of tar, while Petrus attended to a large
cauldron of water.

Ten minutes before the hands of the clock pointed to half-past twelve,
all the cooks had completed their work.

The paint, tar, and water, all at boiling heat, had been placed in the
iron pails with the movable bottoms, and one of these had been hung
over each bedroom door.

The hot water over Harkaway's door, the paint over Harvey's, and the
tar over that in which the two boys and Jefferson reposed.

A string was attached to each pail, and passed over a pulley, the end
being conveyed to a recess where the three watchers were concealed.
They were armed.

Sunday, Monday, and Petrus each had a six-chambered revolver, loaded.

Then came the clang of the old-fashioned clock as it proclaimed half-
past twelve.

Breathless silence prevailed both inside the house and out.

"Lights out," whispered Petrus, when, after a short pause, a slight
grating noise was heard at the back door.

In an instant all was darkness, except that the moon shone through a
narrow window at the extreme end of the corridor.

A few minutes afterwards Petrus, who was watching, saw three dark
figures come gliding into the long passage.

The first was a tall, bulky figure--Toro.

The second the Greek, and the third was evidently Hunston.

A plan of operations had been agreed upon--that was quite certain; for
Toro, without the least hesitation, proceeded to Jefferson's door, the
Greek placing himself outside Harvey's apartment, while Hunston
stationed himself at the room occupied by Harkaway.

Then they waited for a signal, evidently intending to rush in
simultaneously.

"Now!" said Hunston, in a loud whisper.

"Now!" echoed Petrus.

Before the brigands could rush into the rooms occupied by those they
sought to destroy, Petrus pulled the three strings he held in his hand,
and, good Heaven! what a spluttering and swearing at once commenced.

Hunston was drenched and scalded.

"A million curses!" he roared.

"Help! Look here, Toro."

But Toro could not look.

A deluge of hot tar had streamed over his head, filling eyes, ears,
nose, and mouth, saturating his hair and running down inside his
clothing.

"Furies!" he screamed, "I'll have the life of the villain who has done
this! Mathias, out with your knife, man."

But the poor Greek was utterly cowed; the paint had destroyed all his
senses save that of feeling, which was fully exercised.

Hunston, although severely scalded, managed to keep a certain
proportion of his wits about him.

"Come, lads--quick, as you value your lives!" he exclaimed. "Away! we
must not risk capture."

He endeavoured to drag them away.

At that moment, however, another actor appeared on the scene.

This was Nero.

That wide-awake member of the monkey tribe had been doomed to share
Sunday's apartments, where a neat bed had been made for him in one
corner.

Hearing a noise, and, perhaps missing his companion (brother, Jefferson
said), he came down, carrying in his dexter paw a well-filled pillow.

He seemed to recognise Toro at once.

The valorous ape leaped forward, and gave his Italian foe such a
bolstering as Toro had never before heard of, while the three
spectators laughed and applauded loudly.

Crack!

The ticking of the pillow gave way, and a shower of feathers enveloped
the unhappy son of Italy, whose oaths and execrations were literally
smothered.

"Golly! an't he a downy cove?" said Monday.

At this juncture, Hunston managed to grasp his companions by the hand,
and dragged them downstairs and out at the back door.

Only just in time, however, for Jefferson, hearing the noise, rushed
out, in scanty costume, it is true, but fully armed with pistol and
bowie knife, and eager for the fray.

"What is the matter?" he demanded.

Petrus explained briefly.

Jefferson rushed to the door and fired two shots after the fugitives,
who, however, managed to get away.

Then the door was securely bolted, and after the affair had been
explained to all the alarmed inmates of the house, they retired to bed,
but not before Harkaway and his friends had shaken Petrus warmly by the
hand, with a promise that he should see his beloved daughter in the
morning.




CHAPTER IX.

THE BRIGAND'S CONSPIRACY--THE ARAB ASTROLOGER--HARVEY'S FIRST
APPEARANCE AS A MESMERIST.


"They are making fresh efforts to get Mathias out," said Dick Harvey to
his friend Harkaway.

This was the beginning of a conversation which took place at the
residence of the Harkaway party just three days after the daring and
audacious attack on the hotel.

Mathias had been captured by the patrol while endeavouring to escape,
and thrown in gaol again.

"Hang their impudence!" said Jefferson. "Will nothing daunt them? I
wish one of them had entered my room the other night; I would have held
him faster than it seems the prisons here can."

"These two restless vagabonds are up to their games again," exclaimed
Dick.

"You mean Toro?"

"Aye, and Hunston."

"What have they done now?" demanded Jefferson.

"They have been trying to tamper with the gaolers."

"How was it discovered?"

"The traitor, whoever he may be, let fall a letter that he was carrying
to Mathias."

"That's lucky. Well, did they discover any thing?"

"No; it was written in cypher."

"The cunning rascals!"

"Now, I've got more news for you," Dick went on to say.

"Out with it, then."

"You have heard of the Arab who tells fortunes in the town?"

"Mehemed Sadan, the great necromancer?"

"Yes. Would you be surprised to learn that he is one of Mathias' band?"

"Why, those scoundrels have a finger in every pie."

"True," said Harvey. "Now, I have a notion to offer you. I propose that
we go there and test the truth of what I say."

"How?"

"I'll tell you that as we go. Are you agreed?"

"I'm willing," said Harkaway; "any thing for a little excitement."

Off they went.

Mehemed Sadan, the Arabian magician, carried on his occult practices in
a house in the best part of the town, and all his surroundings tended
to show that the "black art" had proved a most profitable commerce to
him.

When Harkaway, Jefferson, and Harvey arrived there, they were ushered
into the presence of the magician by a negro fancifully attired,
wearing silver bands round his wrists and ankles, from which dangled
chains with small bells attached.

Mehemed Sadan was seated on a high-backed chair, close by a long table,
on which was a long cloth of black velvet, covered with mystic signs
and letters, which were all so much Greek to the visitors.

The room was filled with all kinds of things calculated to impress the
vulgar with superstitious awe.

The effect was altogether lost upon Dick Harvey, for he made a point of
nodding at the Arab astrologer in the most familiar manner.

"Morning to you, old fellow," he said, cheerfully.

"Salaam, sahib," responded the necromancer, gravely.

"Hullo!" said Jefferson, opening his eyes, "why, this Arab talks
Hindustani."

"Leave it to me," said Dick Harvey, in an undertone.

The Arab then said some few words to the company generally, which the
company generally could make rather less of than if they had been
addressed in Chinese.

"He's talking no known language under the sun," said Harkaway. "It's my
opinion he has got the cheek to talk regular right-down gibberish to
us."

It was true.

The words, or sounds, let us say, which the necromancer was uttering,
only sounded but too much like "hokey-pokey kickeraboo abracadabra,"
and the rest of the mysterious sounds with which the conjurer at
juvenile parties seeks to invest his performance with additional
wonder, for the benefit of his youthful audience.

Dick was in a rage.

"Confound his impudence," he exclaimed; "I'll give him one."

So he let out in this wise--

"Chi ki hi-u-thundrinold umbuggo--canardly keep my thievinirons off
your wool--I should like to land you just one on the smeller and tap
your claret."

At which, to the surprise of the magician, the visitors burst out
laughing.

The Arab necromancer now asked them, in very good Greek, the object of
their visit.

"We shall not understand much if we are addressed in Greek," said
Harkaway; "try him in Italian."

And then they found that the conjurer spoke Italian as well, or better,
than any of the party.

"Can you tell me," said Jack Harkaway, by way of beginning business,
"if I shall succeed in the present object of my desires or not?"

The magician bowed his head gravely.

Then he opened a large volume covered with mystic characters.

For a minute or two he appeared to be lost in deep study, and then he
gave his reply.

"Your desires tend to the downfall of some lawless men, I find," he
said, watching them keenly, as if he expected to see them jump up in
surprise at his words.

"They do."

"And you will not succeed."

"Does your art tell you where I shall fail?" asked Jack.

"No; I only see disappointment and trouble for you and yours."

"Dear, dear, how very shocking," exclaimed Harkaway, winking at Harvey.

"Dreadful!" added Dick, with a terrified look, and putting his tongue
out at the magician.

"What else does your art tell you?" demanded Jefferson, who was anxious
to know how far the necromancer would venture to try and humbug them.

"I see here," said the conjurer, drawing his finger along a line of
something on an open "book of fate," that looked like Arabic, "I see
here that your lives are menaced, one and all, through the keeping of a
wretched man under restraint."

The visitors looked at each other and exchanged a smile.

"Your art is at fault," said Jefferson; "we have no one under
restraint."

"You are in some way connected with it."

"Wrong again."

The wizard looked uncomfortable at this.

"Strange," he said, "and yet I read it here as clearly as you might
yourself if it were written in a book."

"You are mistaken," said Jefferson; "we are in no way concerned in any
thing of the kind."

The wizard pored over the mystic tome again.

"I can say no more then," he said, "for here you are clearly indicated.
You especially are mentioned as being the immediate cause of his
downfall."

"How am I indicated?" demanded Jefferson.

"By the letter J."

"Which you take for?"

"Your initial."

"Humph! not far out. What an audacious humbug the fellow is," said
Jefferson to Jack.

Now, during the foregoing scene, young Jack and Harry Girdwood had
joined the party, and Dick Harvey was observed to be in close
conversation with them.

At this point Harvey turned from the two lads towards Jefferson.

"The astrologer is right," he said, gravely.

"What the devil do you mean?" exclaimed Jefferson.

"You are right, sir," added Dick to the magician himself.

The latter bowed.

"I doubt it not," he said; "the stars do not speak falsely."

"No, no."

"And so you may convince your friend that I say no more nor less than
the truth."

"I can," said Dick, in a voice as solemn as that of the necromancer
himself, "for I am a mesmerist, and I have here with me a clairvoyant
of great power."

The conjurer started.

"Where?"

"Here."

He held out his hand to young Jack and led him forward.

Harkaway and Jefferson stared again.

"Hullo!" ejaculated old Jack; "what the deuce is madcap Dick up to
now?"

"Can't hazard a guess," said Jefferson.

"Mesmerism can not read the future as my art does," said the
necromancer.

"It can," said Dick; "it corroborates all you have said. I'll give you
a proof of it before our friends here."

And then, before he could object, Dick made a mesmeric pass or two
across young Jack's face, and immediately it appeared to take effect.

Young Jack's eyes were closed, and for a moment there played about his
mouth a merry smile of mischief, and then he appeared to be in a state
of coma.

Never was mesmerism effected with such little trouble.

"Now tell me," said Dick, with all the tricks of manner of the
professional mesmerist, "tell me to what this person alludes?"

"He speaks of Mathias, the brigand chief."

"True," said Dick; "and will Mathias escape?"

"No."

"You hear," said Dick, turning towards the necromancer.

"I do."

"And therefore it is useless to try and effect the liberation of this
Mathias?"

"Quite," returned young Jack. "The wizard here is trying all he can
himself, but he will be discovered by the police and thrown into
prison."

"Hah!" exclaimed Dick, "do you hear that?"

"I do," returned the necromancer, "but it is false."

"It is true," said Dick. "So beware."

 [Illustration: 'SPEAK,' SAID DICK, MAKING MESMERIC PASSES ACROSS
JACK'S FACE"--ADV. IN GREECE, VOL. II PAGE 64.]

"Ask him more," said the wizard, eagerly. "Ask him more."

"What shall I ask?" demanded Dick.

"Ask him--yet, mark me, I don't believe a word of it--ask him, for
curiosity, what follows."

"Follows what?"

"What he said last."

"You mean what follows being thrown into prison?" he said,
deliberately.

"Yes."

"Do you hear?" said Dick.

"Yes, master," responded young Jack.

"Speak, then."

By this time Harkaway the elder and Jefferson began of course to see
what they were driving at, and they became just as much interested as
the wizard himself in what young Jack was going to say.

"What follows," said young Jack, "is too dreadful to look at."

"Speak," said Dick, with a furious pass across the lad's face. "Speak,
I command you. What follows?"

"I see the wizard hanging by the neck--there," and young Jack pointed
straight before him.

The necromancer looked as unhappy as possible when he heard young
Jack's words.

"Do you know enough," asked Dick Harvey, "or would you learn more yet?"

The wizard essayed to smile, but it was a sickly attempt, and it died
away in a ghastly manner.

"I can not believe a word of what you say, but still let him speak on."

Dick frowned.

"If you are a scoffer," he said, sternly, "my clairvoyant will not
speak."

"I am no scoffer," returned the necromancer; "speak on."

"What would you know?"

"When is my danger to begin? Let him say that."

"Speak," said Dick, making mesmeric passes across Jack's face.

"He need fear nothing at present," said young Jack.

The wizard drew a long breath of relief.

"The police are below," continued young Jack, "but for ten minutes
there is no danger."

"Ten minutes!"

"Yes."

"And after?" gasped the wizard, breathlessly.

"Then he is doomed," said young Jack, in sepulchral tones. "The wizard
will be numbered with the dead."

Thereupon, the necromancer was taken suddenly queer, and he retreated
with a few confused words of excuse.

"He's gone," said Dick, laughing.

They pushed aside the curtains where the magician had disappeared, and
found that there was a back staircase.

"There he goes, there he goes!" cried Harry Girdwood, excitedly.

"Yes, and he has left his skin," said young Jack.

Upon the stairs was the long black velvet robe covered with tin-foil
ornaments, with which the necromancer was wont to frighten the ignorant
and superstitious peasants who came to consult him out of their wits.

"I'll frighten old Mole with this," said young Jack.

"I don't suppose that they'll try to frighten us again into helping
Mathias, the brigand chief, out of prison," said Harkaway, laughing.

"He shall hang as high as Haman," said Jefferson, sternly. "Of that I
am so determined, that if there were no one else, I would willingly fix
the noose myself. But hang he shall for murdering my poor and noble
friend Brand."



CHAPTER X.

THE CONDEMNED CELL--MATHIAS ESCAPED--WHERE HAS HE GONE?--THE
BLOOD ON THE HEARTH--A TALE OF TERROR.


The schemes set on foot by the friends of Mathias for his release were
so many and so unceasing that the greatest precautions had to be taken
to keep him in safety.

Rules were made, and for awhile most rigidly enforced, that not a soul
was to be permitted to visit the prisoner; but the exception proves the
rule, and there was an exception made in favour of a lady who came and
pleaded so earnestly to the governor of the prison that he could not
find the courage to refuse her.

The lady was shown into the cell which Mathias had lately occupied.

Lately? Yes.

The bird had flown.

But how had he got free?

Where had he gone?

Not a soul in the prison had the vaguest notion.

The gaoler stared and gaped like one in a dream.

"Where is Mathias?" demanded the woman.

"That's more than I can guess," responded the gaoler, rubbing his eyes
as though he could not believe their evidence.

"Have you mistaken the cell?"

"Not I."

"Has he been removed?"

"No."

She stared him straight in the face for a moment or two, and then she
burst out into a fit of laughter.

"Ha, ha, ha! Why, he has escaped. He has escaped. He has beaten your
vigilance--baffled you all in spite of locks, bolts and bars, and all
your watching."

The gaoler scratched his head.

"Let us look."

"Look! why, you can see everything here at a glance--everything. There
are four walls. There is the bedstead; you can see under it. There is
not room for a man to creep under there. There is the fireplace, and
there is the window."

"Ha!" ejaculated the gaoler, "the window."

"What then?"

"There is no other way; he must have escaped that way, undoubtedly."

"Nonsense," said the woman; "don't you see that is too high up from the
ground."

"He has found a way to climb up there, then."

"But the iron bars are all in their places still."

"True," said the gaoler, thoroughly puzzled, "true. Where can he have
got to?"

"It is simple enough."

"How so?"

"He never attempted the window. He has walked out through the door
being left open."

"Never!"

"Money can do more than that, and I rejoice at his freedom."

She moved to the door.

But the gaoler held her back rather roughly.

"Stop you here," he said, rudely; "I shall have to report this to the
governor, and you had better remain until the job has been
investigated."

And before the startled woman could divine his intention, he swung to
the door and shot the bolt.

Then pushing back the trap in the door, he added a few words through
the grating.

"You'll be safer there," said he, "unless you can manage to get out as
Mathias did. But the devil himself must have a compact with Mathias!"

"At least leave me the light," she said, imploringly.

"Against orders," was all the answer vouchsafed.

The trap was shut.

The woman was left a prisoner, in total darkness.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is always something unpleasant in darkness, and this woman was by
no means iron-nerved.

No sooner was she alone, than a painful sensation of uneasiness stole
over her.

"They can not keep me long here," she kept murmuring to herself; "I
have done nothing; I am accused of no offence. The governor will set me
at liberty as soon as he knows. Could any thing be more unfortunate?
Mathias was a prisoner, and I was at liberty. Now Mathias is free, and
I am a prisoner. Cruel fate to separate us. We are destined to be
parted."

The gloom grew oppressive now.

She stood still, listening in painful silence for five minutes
together--five minutes that appeared to be as many hours.

A silence so solemn, so death-like, that she could hear the very
beating of her heart. This grew unbearable.

She groped her way around the cell to find the bed, and approaching the
fireplace, she was suddenly startled by a sound.

A very faint noise, as of something dripping on the flagstones by her
feet.

In the tomb-like silence then reigning, the faintest sound caused her
to feel uncomfortable.

She listened awhile intently, asking herself what it could mean.

Drip, drip, drip.

It was strange.

When the light was there, she had not noticed it at all.

What could it be then, that was only to be heard in the dark?

Was it fancy?

No.

It was too real.

There was no mistaking it.

If the oppressive gloom of the cell started strange sounds or strange
fancies in her head, why should it take such a shape as that?

Why, indeed?

"Would to Heaven they were back with the light," she said. "Will they
never come?"

Just then, as though her earnest wish were heard and answered, a faint
thin streak of light was shot into the cell through the grated window
above.

This was reflected from a chamber in the prison whose window was close
by the window of this cell, and where a lamp had just been lighted.

The welcome ray shot straight across the cell where she stood by the
fireplace, and she remarked that the dripping did not cease.

Drip, drip, drip!

She looked down.

"I see, I see," she shudderingly exclaimed, "it is raining, and the
rain is falling down the chimney. How foolish of me to get alarmed
about nothing."

Now the light, we have said, shot across the hearth, and here it was
that the drip, drip, drip, fell.

"Same as I thought."

As she muttered this to herself, she stretched forth her hand under the
chimney, and the next drop fell upon it. It was not water.

No, imperfect as was the light then, it sufficed to show her that upon
her hand was a curiously dark stain.

Raising it nearer to her eyes, she examined it eagerly.

Then she shuddered, and exclaimed in a voice of terror--"Blood!"

Yes, it was blood.

Pen can not describe the terror of that wretched woman upon making this
alarming discovery.

"Blood! Whose? Hah! whose blood? Whose but his--whose but the blood of
my darling--my own Mathias?"

For a moment the thought completely unnerved her, and it was little
short of a miracle that she kept from fainting.

But she fought bravely with the deathly horror stealing over her.

And kneeling on the hearth, she called up, yet in gentle voice, lest
she should give the alarm--

"Mathias! Mathias, my own! Do you not know me? Mathias, I say!"

She listened--listened eagerly for a reply.

And presently it came--a dull, hollow moan, a cry of anguish that
chilled the blood in her heart, that froze the very marrow in her
bones.

"Mathias, darling Mathias! answer me for the love of mercy; I shall die
else."

Another moan was heard.

Fainter and fainter even than the first.

Yet full of pent-up suffering.

A sound that told a whole tale of anguish.

"Mathias, come to me," she called again.

"Oh-h-h!"

A fearfully prolonged groan came down to her, louder than before, as if
the sufferer had put all his remaining strength into the effort.

Then all was silent.

Eagerly she listened, straining forward to catch the faintest breath.

But the voice above was stilled for ever.

And yet the drip, drip, drip continued, and as she stretched forward
beneath the chimney, she caught the drops upon her face.

Then she could no longer thrust back conviction.

With a wild cry of terror she drew back, and groped her way round the
room towards the door.

Her hand rested upon the grated trap, and she pushed it back with all
her force, crying aloud for help as she did so.

"Help, help!" she shouted with the energy of despair; "Mathias is
dying."

But that wretched man would not trouble the authorities more--His last
breath had been drawn as she stood there listening to those awesome
sounds.

What could be the solution of this mystery!

This would be known soon now, for the sounds of footsteps were
distinctly heard now in the long stone corridors of the prison.

The gaolers had given the alarm at once of the prisoner's escape, and
the outlets of the prison were guarded in all directions, while a party
was sent to the cell to investigate the matter thoroughly.

At the head of this party was the governor himself.

The time had appeared ten times as long to the unhappy woman as it was
in reality.

"Help, help! oh, help!" she cried.

At each effort she grew weaker and weaker. Her voice died away, and
when they reached the door of the cell, they found her hanging by the
bars of the grated window or trap more dead than alive.

"Show the light," ejaculated the governor.

And then, as the rays fell upon that face, pallid as the flesh of a
corpse, save where the dark blood stains had settled, there was an
involuntary exclamation of horror from all the beholders.

"Father of mercy," cried one of the men; "she has destroyed herself."

Such was the general idea.

She had committed suicide.

In this, however, they were speedily undeceived.

To burst open the door and rush into the cell was but the work of a
moment.

At this the woman rallied a little and recovered herself.

"What is the matter?" asked the governor.

"The chimney!" gasped the woman faintly.

"The chimney! Speak--explain."

"His blood--Mathias's," she said; "see the chimney. I dare not look."

Two of the men by now had approached the chimney, and lowering the
light they carried, one of them discovered a dark ominous pool upon the
hearth.

"Call the doctor; there is something more than meets the eye in this."

This order was promptly obeyed, and a surgeon was speedily in
attendance. A mere cursory glance convinced the man of skill that the
blood upon the woman's face was not her own, and just as he arrived at
the decision, drip, drip, drip it began again upon the hearth.

The men looked at each other half scared, and the governor himself was
scarcely more self-possessed.

The surgeon alone retained his presence of mind.

Snatching a lamp from one of the men, he thrust it as far as his arm
could reach up the chimney and looked earnestly up.

"As I thought!" he exclaimed.

"What?" demanded the governor, eagerly.

"He is there."

"Who?"

"Who but the prisoner? Mathias is there--hopelessly stuck--wedged in.
He has been trying to escape and has hurt himself."

The woman looked up at these words.

"Is it no worse?" she asked. "Is he badly hurt?"

"I can not say yet," said the surgeon; "we must get him down first."

This proved a very difficult matter indeed.

The flue was so narrow that it was sheer madness to attempt climbing
it.

Eagerly Mathias had pushed on, and finally got himself wedged
inextricably.

He could neither move up nor down.

It was when he made this alarming discovery that his struggles became
desperate, and in his wild efforts to free himself from his self-set
trap, he tore and mutilated his flesh most cruelly.

The wounds and the want of air had done their work.

An hour's hard work succeeded in setting the prisoner free--or rather
his body, for it was found that life had been extinct, according to the
surgeon's report, before they had entered the cell.

And when they came to examine the clothes, they made a discovery which
threw a light upon the whole affair.

A small scrap of paper, dirty and crumpled was found in his pocket,
upon which was some writing that was with great difficulty construed in
this wise--

"The only hope is from the waterside. If you can but reach the roof,
and have the courage to make the plunge, freedom will be your reward."

How this note came there was never discovered.

With this dire catastrophe ended the efforts of the brigands to free
their unhappy leader.




CHAPTER XI.

MR. MOLE VISITS THE WIZARD--THE MAGIC MIRROR AND THE LIFE-LIKE
VISION--THE INCANTATION--THE CHARMED WIG.


"In point of fact, sir," said young Jack to his tutor one morning, "it
is about the only thing worth seeing here."

"What is, Jack?"

"The wizard."

Mr. Mole looked very straight at his pupil upon this.

"What wizard, sir?" he said, severely. "What do you mean?"

"I mean the conjuror that Mr. Jefferson, and dad, and Uncle Dick went
to see."

"When?"

"The other day. Didn't they tell you about it?"

"No, sir."

When Mr. Mole addressed his pupil as "sir," young Jack knew pretty well
that he thought he was being humbugged.

There is an old saying--"Jack was as good as his master."

Putting on a look of injured innocence, he called his comrade Harry to
corroborate what he had said.

"That's quite true, Mr. Mole."

"That Mr. Jefferson went with Mr. Harkaway and Harvey to see a
necromancer?"

"Yes."

"Preposterous!" quoth Mr. Mole. "Why, whatever is the world coming to
next? We shall have them spirit-rapping and table-turning and such-like
muck, I suppose."

Jack looked serious.

"Then you don't believe in necromancy--that they can tell the past and
the future by the aid of astrology?"

"Pickles!"

It would have astonished Messieurs Crosse and Blackwell themselves,
could they have heard what a deal that one word could convey when
uttered by an Isaac Mole.

"Well, sir," said Harry Girdwood, seriously, "the wizard told us some
very remarkable things indeed."

"What did he tell you?"

"Many things, many very wonderful things; but one of the most wonderful
was about you, sir."

Mr. Mole started.

"Don't you try to come the old soldier over me," said Mole.

Harry Girdwood protested that he held Mr. Mole in far too much respect
to essay any thing like coming the ancient military, or indeed anything
else which might be construed into want of proper feeling.

Mr. Mole looked hard at him.

"And what did he say about me?"

"He said that all the intelligence of our party was centred in one
person."

"Well?"

"And that the initials of the person in question were I. M."

"Now, Jack."

"Sir."

"You two boys are conspiring against me."

"You are rather hard upon us, sir," said Harry Girdwood, with an
injured look.

"Was I? Dear me, I didn't mean that," said poor Mole. "But I'll go and
see this wizard, as you call him."

"It might startle you, sir."

"Stuff and nonsense, Harry; my nerves are iron--iron, I tell you."

"They had need be of steel, if you really mean to go."

"I'll go, and you shall go with me, Harry," said Mr. Mole; "and I'll
unmask this wretched impostor before you."

And down came his clenched fist upon the table, with a fierceness and
energy which made all the things leap up.

       *       *       *       *       *

The chamber of mystery was arranged with a keen eye to effect.

The present possessors of the place had preserved all the adjuncts
which had looked so effective during the career of the necromancer, who
had fled ignominiously.

A huge stuffed alligator swung from the ceiling, and the lighting of
the room was effected by means of two or three swinging lamps, that
burnt dimly blue, and made the place look sepulchral enough to satisfy
the most morbid cravings for the horrible.

At the further end of the room was a "charmed circle," drawn with
chalk, and set around it was a row of hideous grinning skulls, which
suggested that a hint had been borrowed from Zamiel, in "Der
Freyschutz."

Besides these matters, there were several skeletons stuck up in the
most alarming attitudes.

Beside the chair was a large oval frame.

Upon the other side of the necromancer's chair was a heavy curtain, or
_portière_ of cloth, covered with fantastic figures, and this was
drawn aside a minute or so after Mr. Mole and Harry Girdwood appeared.

Then, through the dark aperture thus disclosed, the wizard hobbled in.

Not the wizard that we have seen before, but a little old man bent half
double with age, and of whom little was to be seen save a long white
beard and an appropriate robe.

He leant heavily upon a staff, and sank into his chair with evident
pain and difficulty.

"What would ye with me?" said the necromancer, in feeble, querulous
tones. "If ye have come to scoff again, begone ere I summon an evil
spirit to blight ye."

Mr. Mole said nothing.

But when Harry Girdwood placed his hand nervously upon the old
gentleman's arm, as if for protection, he felt that he was trembling
slightly.

"He knows that we are English, you see," whispered Harry.

"Ye-es--ahem!--ye-es."

"Do you hear me?" said the wizard.

"Ye-es, oh, yes, sir," said Mr. Mole, who could not, for the life of
him, get his voice above a whisper.

"Then answer."

"By all means! decidedly--quite so, I assure you."

"What? Beware! Do you mean to doubt and mock?"

"Oh, dear; yes."

"Hah!"

"That is, no. I really don't know what I am saying."

"Silence, or the fiends will have your ber-lud ber-lud--Do you hear
me?" shrieked the old wizard.

"Quite so. Dear, dear me, Harry," said Mr. Mole in an undertone, "what
a very remarkable person, and I don't want to lose my ber-lud."

"What do you say now, sir? Do you feel sure that he is a humbug?"

"Of course not, but--"

At this juncture their conversation was cut short by a low, rumbling
noise, that sounded like distant thunder.

As it continued, it increased in strength, until it became absolutely
deafening.

Then suddenly upon a sign from the necromancer, it ceased, and the man
of mystery arose and pointed menacingly with his wand at Mole.

"Ye have thought well to neglect my warning," he said, in a voice which
thrilled poor Mole strangely; "the secrets of your inmost heart are
known to me as to my familiar, and the penalty must be enacted."

Mole bounced up.

"Goodness me!"

Harry Girdwood laid a trembling hand upon the unhappy old gentleman,
and played the part of Job's comforter once again with considerable
effect.

"We are lost."

"Don't, Harry, don't! Pray consider Mrs. Mole and the two babes."

"Try and melt him with a very humble apology."

"I will, I do!" exclaimed Mr. Mole in great excitement. "I really did
not mean it, Mr. Conjuror; 'pon my soul, I did not; and pray do not let
your vampires take my her-lud."

"Enough," said the wizard, sternly; "for once your ignorance shall
excuse you. Now say what you would have with me and begone."

"I think I should like to go," Mole whispered to Harry,

"What for?"

"We have been a long while here," said Mr. Mole in the same tone; "Mrs.
M, will be looking for me."

"Perhaps you don't feel quite comfortable here."

"Comfortable," said Mr. Mole with a sickly smile; "oh, dear me, yes, I
never was jollier."

"A little nervous perhaps, sir."

"My dear boy," said Mole, positively, "I have nerves of iron, literally
iron. Ha! what noise is that?"

"Only the magician's evil spirit, or his familiar, as he calls it."

"Strange," said Mole; "but sheer humbug of course."

"Humbug?"

"Hush!" exclaimed Mr. Mole, very anxiously.

Bang went that deafening thunder again, and Mr. Mole hopped towards the
door.

Harry Girdwood followed him closely up.

"You are uncomfortable, Mr. Mole."

"Not at all; nerves of adamant, Harry."

The latter laughed.

Never was there such an audacious humbug as Isaac Mole.

"You see that frame, sir, beside the wizard's chair?" said Girdwood.

"Yes," replied Mr. Mole; "what of it?"

"He showed us some marvels there last time."

"What is it?"

"A magic mirror."

"You must have been thoroughly well cheated; now, what could he have
shown you there?"

"Wonders," replied Harry impressively; "you, amongst other marvels."

"Me?"

"Yes."

"What do you mean?"

"I mean, sir, that you appeared before us as plainly as I see you now."

Mr. Mole certainly looked serious at this.

"He can show you anyone you may want to see," said Harry.

"Never!"

"Try him."

"I will," said Mr. Mole, with a show of determination, but shaking all
over.

"Now, O sceptic, what proof of my lore would ye have? Would ye know
something of yourself?"

"No."

"Yes," said Harry Girdwood for him promptly.

The wizard inclined his head gravely, and opened a large volume before
him upon the table.

After poring over this for a time, he said the following doggrel in a
deep bass voice--

                     "The doom of Mole is understood,
                      For ever more to walk on wood;
                      Though upon macadam or stone
                      Yet he shall walk on wood alone.

                     "Let him march out on asphalte--tile,
                      In orange groves his thoughts beguile;
                      Where'er he be, the fate of Mole's
                      To scud through life upon bare poles"

This peculiar incantation had its effect somewhat increased by soft
music.

"Ahem!" said Mr, Mole, "it didn't want a wizard to tell me that."

"What, sir?" demanded Harry, innocently.

"About my wooden legs; my infirmity is visible to every body."

"But how could he know?"

"By looking."

"Still sceptical," said the wizard, who had very sharp ears; "shall I
consult my book again?"

"No, no," said Mr. Mole, uneasily.

But Harry Girdwood said "Yes."

He did not want to end the scene yet.

"What would you?" demanded the magician sternly.

Harry commenced to whisper to Mr. Mole.

"Come, sir, pluck up your courage, and find out something about
yourself. You know the past--why not ask him about the future?"

"He might be rude enough to say something unpleasant, Harry. However,
I'll try him."

Then, with a very polite bow, Mr. Mole asked--

"Can you tell me, Mr. Magician, what my ultimate fate is?"

The necromancer took two steps forward and seized Mr. Mole's hand.

"I find that the line of life is tinged with the hue of blood," said
he, in solemn tones, after a lengthened inspection of the palm.

"Dear me, how unpleasant--I washed my hands not long ago."

"Man! do you think you can wash away the decrees of fate or sponge out
the solemn words written by the stars? You are an Englishman?"

"Certainly."

"Already six Englishman have sought me, and each of the six died a
terrible death. What says the book?--

                  "A terrible death on this green earth,
                   With never the slightest chance of heaven;
                   Let him curse the day--the hour of his birth,
                   The English victim numbered seven."

"And you are _Number Seven,_ Mr. Mole. May all the powers of
heaven and earth preserve me from such a terrible doom as yours."

Mr. Mole almost fainted when the magician uttered such fearful words
respecting his (Mole's) fate.

Harry Girdwood, however, handed him a rum flask, and a good pull at
that restored his nerves.

"Pooh!" said he, "I don't believe a word he uttered."

"Still sceptical?" said the magician. "But to convince you of my power,
I will show you any thing you like in my magic mirror."

"Very well, then, I should like to see Harkaway and Harvey at this
present moment--just to ascertain what they are doing--that will be a
test."

He chuckled as he said this.

But as he spoke the magic mirror grew light, and two figures were seen,
set, as it were, in a frame.

Jack Harkaway the elder, was seated in an arm-chair reading; beside him
stood his constant companion, Dick Harvey.

The latter's figure was the more remarkable of the two, and the
attitude was not merely characteristic, but it was startlingly like
life.

One hand was in his pocket; the other was at his face, the thumb
pointing at his nose, the fingers outstretched towards the audience.

"What do you think of that?" asked Harry Girdwood, in low tones.

"Marvellous!" cried Mole; "that is Harkaway and Harvey, sure enough.
Harvey has got something the matter with his nose."

"No," whispered Harry, "he's taking a sight at you."

"So he is. Just like Harvey. Harvey!" he called out.

The mirror darkened, and the figures faded away from the sight upon the
instant.

"Do you desire still another proof of my skill?" asked the wizard.

"Well you can, if you like, tell me something more about myself; but
don't put yourself to any trouble."

The wizard leant over his book earnestly for a consider able time.

"I see here," said he, "that you have contrived to keep one important
matter secret from your friends."

"What?"

"The hairs of your head are numbered," continued the wizard.

Mr. Mole changed colour.

"How--what?"

"By the barber; you wear a wig."

"Oh, no--no!" exclaimed Harry Girdwood, positively, "You are wrong
there, sir, I assure you. Is he not, Mr. Mole?"

"Of course he is."

"Will you see for yourself, unbelieving boy?"

"Yes," said Harry.

"Where--say, where shall my familiar take it?"

"Up to the ceiling."

Mr. Mole groaned.

At the self-same instant out went the lights; a heavy hand was placed
upon Mr. Mole's head, and hey, presto! his wig was seen dancing about
at the ceiling, glittering with a phosphorescent light upon it.

Mr. Mole looked up, gave one awful yell, then made for the door, and
flew away as fast as his wooden legs would carry him.

And his yells continued, for all along his route young Jack had
sprinkled a plentiful supply of crackers, which exploded as he ran.

An unearthly chorus, sounding like the discordant laughter of invisible
fiends greeted his retreat, and he never stopped until he had got home,
panting and gasping for breath.

As soon as he was out of the room Harry Girdwood locked the door.

"Come forth, my merry devils!" he shouted. "Old Mole's gone."

The curtain was drawn back, and in came Dick Harvey and Jack Harkaway,
carrying lights.

The wizard threw back his head dress and long horsehair wig, and showed
the grinning face of young Jack himself.

"Bravo, Jack," said his comrade, Harry; "you did it ever so much better
than the other conjuror did."

"Was he frightened?" inquired young Jack.

"Poor old Mole! I never saw him so alarmed before."

Harvey and old Jack enjoyed the fun every bit as much as the boys.

"My opinion is," said the elder Harkaway, laughing, "that the triumph
of the whole job was in the dancing wig."

"It was beautifully done," said Harvey.

"I nearly missed it," said Harry Girdwood laughing, "for you put out
the lights so suddenly that I couldn't find the string, and then I
nearly dug the hook into his head as well as his wig; and as for the
phosphorus, I gave him a dab with it upon the nose."

"Ha, ha, ha!"

Every thing had been carefully arranged beforehand, it need hardly be
said, and a cord, with a fish-hook at the end of it, was run over a
small wheel fixed in the ceiling,

Harry held the other end of the cord, and as soon as the darkness and
confusion came, he drove the hook into poor old Mole's wig, while he
rubbed it dexterously with phosphorus, and then with a jerk he hauled
it up to the ceiling, where he set it dancing about, to the
indescribable horror of Mole.




CHAPTER XII.

WHEREIN MR. MOLE IS CRUELLY USED--THE GARDEN FETE--SUNDAY AND
MONDAY GIVE AN ENTERTAINMENT--ANOTHER LOOK INTO THE MAGIC MIRROR--
STUDIES OF NATURAL HISTORY--AN INVOLUNTARY PERFORMER.


When Isaac Mole had time to reflect coolly upon what had occurred,
doubts arose in his mind.

In spite of the seemingly inexplicable nature of the phenomena which he
had witnessed, he felt that Harkaway, father or son, must know
something of it.

Dick Harvey, he was morally sure, was in it.

If any thing fell, Harkaway would start up, on which Harvey or young
Jack would immediately inquire anxiously if he were startled, solely
for the purpose of leading up to Mole's words at the wizard's house.

"Startled--nervous! Never; iron nerves, sir--adamant!"

Upon these occasions, Mr. Mole would glide away from Harkaway's room
without a word, leaving his tormentors to have their grin out all to
themselves.

All they could do they could not make him drop a word of allusion to
the events just narrated.

On that topic he was utterly dumb. Day and night the worthy Isaac Mole
brooded over one solitary topic.

Revenge.

"I'll teach 'em," he said; "I'll let them know what it is to play
practical jokes with a man like me."

The last straw breaks the camel's back. The last indignity on his wig
proved too much for Isaac Mole, for he had until that fatal day at the
magician's, been fondly hugging himself in the delusion that the secret
was all his own.

The talk was tortured and twisted about so as to make it bear upon the
sorest subject for the poor old gentleman.

"Dash my wig, Mr. Mole!" Harvey would say; "let's take a short country
excursion. You know the advantages of change of _hair."_

If a suggestion were wanting for the dinner of the day, a voice was
ready to advocate "jugged hare."

"That's very well," said Harkaway, "but where can you get one in these
parts?"

"That's it," chimed in Harvey; "as Mrs. Glasse says, first catch your
_hair,_ eh, Mr. Mole?"

Mole winced.

"It's not always easy to catch it, is it, Mr. Mole?" said Harry
Girdwood, slyly.

"Not if it flies too high," said young Jack.

This chaff goaded poor old Mole to fury, coming as it did from the
boys.

"Really," he said, with a lofty sneer, "I don't see what you have to
laugh at in the idle nonsense of these children."

This made them grin more than ever.

"The wit of the rising generation," sneered Mole.

"Mr. Mole would like the young generation never to rise, I think," said
Harry Girdwood.

"That's it," laughed Harkaway; "Mr. Mole was always so conservative in
his ideas."

"Let me see, dad," said young Jack, looking puzzled; "Conservative,
why, that means a Tory."

"Yes."

"But, Mr. Mole, I thought that you always were a Whig."

Such a storm of laughter greeted this sally, that Mr. Mole could not
stand up against it.

Looking daggers at every body, he trudged out of the room, digging his
walking stick fiercely as he went.

Now at the door, who should he meet but Sunday, grinning from ear to
ear?

"I'm not going to be fooled by you, you infernal black pudding," cried
Mole, exasperated beyond measure.

"Yah, yah," grinned the mirthful Caesar Augustus, holding his sides.

"Take that," cried Mole.

Sunday did take it.

It was not a pleasant dose, for "that," in this instance, meant a
severe crack across the head with old Mole's walking stick.

Sunday rubbed his poll.

Happily the thick wool with which it was garnished saved the skull from
much danger, and a nigger's head is proverbially tough.

But yet Sunday did not relish the indignity.

"You dam wooden-legged ole tief," he shouted out; "I'll gib it to yar
for dis hyar."

And so, full of revengeful thoughts, the darkey sought his friend
Monday.

And they set to work plotting, with what result the next day showed--
much to the old gentleman's disgust.

       *       *       *       *       *

They mustered a good round dinner-party upon the following day.

In front of the summer house was an object which excited Mr. Mole's
curiosity considerably.

One of the ladies asked what it was there for.

"I don't know exactly what it is," replied Harkaway; "something of
Monday's, I think, Dick."

"I believe so," replied Harvey, carelessly.

"They are going to give us an entertainment of some kind," said young
Jack.

The cloth having been cleared, Monday came forward, and bowing gravely,
addressed the company.

"Ladies and gentlemen--"

"Hear, hear!" from Mole, who, thinking himself free from attack,
determined to try a bit of chaff upon his own account.

"Thank you, sar," said Monday, bowing gracefully to Mole.

"Ladies and gentlemen--"

"Bravo, bravo!" shouted Mole; "exceedingly bravo."

"Folks generally--sane and insane"--here he bowed in a very marked
manner at Mr. Mole.

"Hear, hear!" cried Dick.

"My entertainment is just a-gwine to begin, and as it is of a
scientific natur dat asks for all your attention, I must ax them to go
at once who don't wish to stay and see it all through, so as not to
interrupt me."

"No one wishes to go."

The most eager person to remain was Mr. Mole.

Poor old Mole.

Monday went on--

"The first that I'se gwine to show you, ladies and gentlemen, is some
speciminks of what is known as the occult art, that is, the black art,
or magic."

Mole winced.

"Go on."

"Hear, hear!" said Dick.

"Bravo, Monday," from Jack Harkaway.

Mole was silent.

He had not another "bravo" in him, so to speak.

Monday bowed in acknowledgment of the plaudits.

"In the first place, den, ladies and gentlemen," he went on to say, "I
mean to show you my magic mirror."

Mole glanced nervously at Dick, and from him to Jack Harkaway.

But both looked as stolid as Dutchmen.

Monday drew back the curtain from the easel, disclosing a frame, on
which was fitted a plain black board.

"In this frame," said the professor of the black art, "I can show you
any persons you may ask for, dat is, persons who are known to you."

Mr. Mole had heard enough to convince him that he was in danger of
being once more sacrificed to the insatiable passion of his two old
pupils for chaffing and practical joking.

"Well, sar," said Monday, "just you try um."

"We will," said Dick.

"Well, then, sar, who shall be the first person I must bring before
you?"

No reply.

"Well, Mr. Mole, name somebody," said Monday, in his most insinuating
manner.

Mole's only reply was a dissenting growl.

"No."

"Will you, Mr. Harkaway, sar?" he said.

"Well, I will if you like--suppose that we call upon your friend,
Sunday?"

"Very good, sar."

And then he set to work.

A walking stick served him as a wand, and this he waved three times
slowly and majestically, while he repeated in solemn tones this
singular legend--

               "Hokus-pokus, popalorum,
                Stickstun, stickstun, cockalorum jig."

Thereupon the curtain went back, and lo! Sunday appeared sitting upon a
throne of state, robed in a long crimson mantle, which made him look
like an emperor.

It was a most dignified tableau, or it would have been, but for the
long clay pipe the darkey held in his mouth and the pewter pot he
carried in his hand.

"Ladies and gemmen," said Monday, "dat is our ole friend, dressed as de
Empyroar Charleymane."

"Bravo, bravo!"

Even Mr. Mole laughed.

The curtain closed over this dignified and historical representation.

"Now," said Dick Harvey, "let us see some of our live Stock."

"Yes, yes," said young Jack; "show us Nero."

"And Mike."

Monday bowed.

Then back went the curtain, and there sat Nero, the monkey, on the
throne just vacated by the emperor "Charleymane," and at his feet stood
the bold poodle Mike wagging his tail.

Nero appeared to understand what was required of him, and he sat
motionless as a statue for a while, but before long the peculiar
nervous irritation to which monkeys appear to be subject attacked him,
and he began a series of spasmodic researches in natural history all
over his ribs.

"Nero's making up for lost time," said young Jack; "look how he is
getting to work."

Nero was indeed scratching away furiously.

"There's diligence," laughed young Jack; "now he's busy."

And then he broke off into the following appropriate snatch--

             "He'll catch the flee--he'll catch the flee--
              He'll catch the fleeting hour."

Down went the curtain.

There was a general laugh at this.

"When we asked you to show us the live stock," said Dick Harvey, "you
took us too literally, Monday."

"Yah, yah!"

"You must learn to draw the line somewhere."

Monday here rapped the ground with his wand to secure attention.

Silence having been gained, he addressed them thus--

"Before we leave dis part of de entertainment," he said, "I conclude de
exhibition of one more animal. For reasons dat I need not mention, I
shall leave you to guess at de name of dis animal. It is a small animal
dat lives on wums."

"Wums?"

"Yes."

"What are they?"

"On wums, scriggley wums and insects, and burrows in the earth."

"Why, dear me," said young Jack, innocently, "that must be a mole."

Before a word could be said, back went the curtain, and Nero was
discovered walking upon a pair of wooden stilts.

He staggered about like a man in liquor, and made everyone yell again
at the quaint manner in which he had hit off Mr. Mole's movements.

"Whatever has he got on his head?" said someone.

Mole shivered.

He guessed.

Guessed; alas, he was but too sure.

Nero put all his doubts at rest by making a graceful bow and removing
his wig instead of a hat.

The wig!

Yea; the identical wig which Mr. Mole had left behind him in his
precipitate flight from the conjuror's.

This was too much.

Losing his dignity completely, Mr. Mole jumped up and burst through the
group of spectators, dashing out of the place in a perfect fury, young
Jack's voice ringing in his ears as he shouted--

"A wig  a wig! My kingdom for a wig!"




CHAPTER XIII.

THE BRIGANDS' CAMP--A MOUNTAIN BIVOUAC--AN ALARM--THE SOLDIERS
--A CHALLENGE--THE BRIGANDS' WIDOW--FATAL NEWS.


We change the scene.

And now we find ourselves in a mountain pass, where a number of rough-
looking men are grouped about a camp fire.

A short distance from this group stands a tall man, leaning moodily
upon the muzzle of his musket, while he watches the zig-zag paths up
the mountain side.

Upon this man one can see the whole safety of the party depends.

He is on sentry.

A prolonged silence was suddenly broken by the sentinel looking up and
grasping his musket nervously, while he turned a warning gesture to the
camp.

"What is it?" exclaimed one of the party, jumping up.

"Hush!"

The sentry turned with his finger on his lips, and motioned him to
silence.

At a sign from one of the men--evidently a superior--the whole party
sprang to their feet.

A hurried examination of their musket-locks and arms generally showed
that they expected danger, and only waited a word from the sentinel to
be "up and doing."

The leader stepped up to the sentry, drawn sword in hand.

"What is it?"

"The patrol."

"Soldiers?"

The sentry nodded.

"The Carbonari?"

"Yes."

The leader grasped his sword nervously, and made a step forward as
though he would have dashed through the ravine and charge the military
alone and unaided.

But if such were his intentions, he speedily altered his mind. "Perish
them!" he muttered; "and curse their spying!"

"We could pick them all off from here," said one of the men--a huge,
burly fellow, who had climbed up to a projecting rock commanding an
extensive view. "All down to the last man."

And as he spoke, he brought his gun up to his shoulder with an ominous
gesture.

"Hold, Toro!" ejaculated an English voice. "Your hasty imprudence will
spoil us."

"Bah!" said Toro, replying in the same tongue. "You are over prudent,
Hunston. Why should we not destroy them while they are in our power?"

"What if one escapes?"

"One should not," retorted the Italian savagely; "no, nor half a one."

"And where is the good if we succeeded, as you say?"

"Good!" reiterated Toro, passionately. "Are they not our sworn foes?
Are they not here in pursuit of us? Good!--why, will it not lessen the
number of our enemies by their number at least?"

"Yes, perhaps," replied Hunston. "And if successful, it would so
thoroughly alarm the country, that it would cause a whole army to be
sent after us, and make the end a mere question of time. Let one escape
to tell the tale and it would bring them down to this spot, our safest
place in the mountains, and hitherto undiscovered by our enemies."

Toro grumbled.

Yet there was so much truth in what Hunston said that he could urge
nothing further in favour of violent measures.

The sentry, who was still on the watch at the fissure in the rocks,
here turned round and motioned them to silence.

"Not so loud," he exclaimed, in a whisper; "they can hear something;
they are looking our way."

"Hah!"

In fact, the military were so near, that they could be heard plainly
enough giving their words of command.

"Halt! Ground arms!"

The rattle of their rifles was heard distinctly.

The officer then could be seen taking observations through a short
telescope which he carried suspended by a strap to his side.

He glanced all about the place and fixed for some little time upon the
fissures and rocky passes, resting longer below the very one at which
the sentry was posted than elsewhere.

But although it would seem to have aroused his suspicions, it was
evident that he could see nothing, for, after a few minutes, he lowered
his glass and shut it up.

The reason of this was, that where the sentry stood was completely
shadowed by the overhanging rocks, so that he was invisible to them,
although they could be distinctly seen by the sentry.

The scrutiny appeared to satisfy the officer.

"Shoulder arms! Left wheel! March!"

The measured tramp of the soldiers was distinctly heard.

Fainter and fainter it grew until it died away.

The sentry watched them in silence for several minutes before he spoke.

Presently he turned round to his comrades and nodded.

"Safe," he said. "They have turned by the crossroads; the last man is
out of sight."

"That's prime," said our old friend Tomaso. "Then now to dinner."

The sentry was not lost sight of--indeed, he was not the man to allow
himself to be forgotten, for before the meal had been long in progress
he reminded them that he had such a thing as an appetite about him by a
very rough address.

"Gluttons," he said to the party generally, "do you think only of
yourselves? Am I to mount guard for ever?"

They only laughed at this.

"Right, Ymeniz," said Toro; "turn and turn about is but fair. Matteo."

"Present," returned one of the men, jumping up and saluting with a
stiff military action, which told that he had once served in the army.

"Relieve guard, and let Ymeniz take your place here."

Matteo picked up his musket and marched up to the rocky pass, while the
late sentry joined the feast.

Now while the guard was changed, without any particular demonstration
of reluctance upon the part of the new sentry himself, Tomaso made a
very wry face.

"Our comrade Toro gives his commands as naturally as though he were our
leader."

Toro flushed up at this.

"And why not?" he said, almost fiercely.

"Why not?" echoed Tomaso, with a sneer. "Oh, I could give several
reasons."

"Give them."

"Nay, one will suffice."

"Well."

"Our only chieftain is the gallant Mathias."

"And he is in prison."

"True; but that doesn't prove you to be our leader while poor Mathias
is in the hands of the Philistines."

"Bah!" replied Toro, impatiently. "Someone must command while Mathias
is away."

"Then there are others who should command here in his absence in
preference to those who are new comers."

"Who are they?"

"You haven't far to look," returned Tomaso, drawing himself up
haughtily; "myself, for instance."

Toro burst into a loud and derisive laugh.

"You?" he said, contemptuously.

"Yes, I."

"Why, I have led a band of gallant fellows years ago--a band of thrice
our strength; aye, and what is more, I have led them to victory again
and again--to victory and fortune."

"Your lucky star has not been in the ascendant since you have deigned
to honour us with your company," said Tomaso.

The covert sneer conveyed in this speech made the peppery Italian fire
up.

"What do you mean by that?" he demanded, fiercely.

"I mean that your gallant followers must have missed so distinguished a
leader; pity you could not return to lead them to fresh triumphs,
greatly as we should deplore your loss."

Toro boiled over at this.

"Do you want to fix a quarrel on me?" he asked, in a voice of
suppressed passion.

"No," replied Tomaso, insolently. "When I want to quarrel, I go
straight to my point; I don't beat about the bush. I only want to
remind you of your proper place here so fall back, Signor Italiano, and
learn to be more respectful in your bearing."

Stung to the quick by this, Toro plucked out his sword, and would have
rushed upon the other, had not several of the men interposed.

"Come, come," they said, "none of that. We have plenty of enemies; we
can cut their throats, not our own, when we want to spill blood."

"Besides," said an old man, "it is profitless quarrelling about the
leadership--we have a leader. Poor Mathias!"

"Right," echoed several voices together, "right. Sit down; no
quarrelling."

"Here," exclaimed an old brigand, "let us drink to Mathias."

"And his speedy return," added another.

"Aye, aye, his speedy release."

Horn goblets were handed round and filled with ruddy wine from a skin,
which the old brigand himself produced from his own mysterious larder.

"To Mathias!"

"To Mathias!"

A ringing cheer was heard, and the goblets were drained to the very
dregs.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Who goes there?"

"A friend."

"The word."

"Mathias."

"Advance, friend, and give the countersign."

This challenge was replied to, and a woman appeared at the narrow
entrance to the mountain pass.

Slowly she walked through, her head drooping and her eyes fixed upon
the ground.

They recognised her now.

It was the wife of their chieftain, the bold Mathias.

"I scarcely knew you," said the sentry, apologetically.

She looked up and smiled in a strangely vacant manner.

The other said nothing.
 Her manner impressed them with ugly feelings.

Instinctively they felt that some fresh calamity had happened to them.

In fear and trembling they anticipated the evil tidings which she
brought, although, of course, they could not guess at its exact nature.

"Did you succeed!" demanded the old man.

She nodded gravely.

"You saw Mathias?"

"Yes."

Her answer was given in the same vacant manner, and staring fixedly
into the very midst of them, she appeared to see nothing.

"Did you tell our brave captain how eagerly we look forward to his
release--how anxiously we long for the moment when he shall be again
here amongst us--at our head?"

It was the old brigand who spoke.

She gave him a strange look, from which they could gather absolutely
nothing, and her eyes dropped again to the ground.

The heavy, unpleasant feeling deepened.

Scarcely one of them had the courage to address her again.

An oppressive silence fell upon them all.

They looked at each other in silent, awkward expectation, all, bold
desperadoes as they were, cowed into silence by her manner.

"You succeeded in seeing him?" said Hunston.

"Yes," she said, quietly.

"And you bade him be of good heart?--you told him that we were making a
plan in his behalf--a plan which could not fail of success? You said--"

The woman looked up.

"Nothing!"

"What!"

"Nothing," she slowly repeated, "nothing. I saw him, but it was too
late to speak those words of comfort."

"Too late?" iterated Hunston, eagerly, "too late?"

"Ah, too late for words of comfort, for menaces, or for any thing."

"Surely you do not mean--"

He could not complete the sentence, but she helped him out--

"I do," she said, in a hollow voice, and nodding her head gravely, "I
do mean that he, Mathias, the brigand chief is dead!"

The brigands, one and all, leaped to their feet, snatching up their
carbines, while from their throats issued a deep cry of revenge.

Dead! The word thrilled them one and all with horror.

The bold Mathias dead!

Prepared as they had been by her manner for some dire Calamity, it came
upon them like a thunderclap. The awful calm manner of the chieftain's
widow impressed them more than if she had thrown up her hands in wild
despair and given way to the noisiest demonstrations of woe.

After some few minutes, one ventured to break the awesome silence.

"How did he die?"

The brigand's wife turned from her questioner with a shudder.

"Ask me nothing yet. I am not able to speak of that at present; give me
time to conquer this weakness."

"If I ask, it is that I may seek vengeance upon his destroyer," said
Tomaso, the speaker.

Her eyes sparkled, and the colour rushed into her pale cheek at the
word. "Vengeance--aye, vengeance. Well spoken, my bold Tomaso;
vengeance is something to live for, after all; vengeance we'll have
too. We'll glut ourselves with it; a feast of vengeance we'll have."
"We will, we will!" shouted the brigands, as though with one single
voice.

"These English and these Americans shall die."

"They shall!"

"We'll exterminate them, root and branch."

"Aye, aye."

"Firstly, these Harkaways shall fall, then--"

"They die."

"Does Mathias owe his death to Harkaway's band?" demanded Hunston.

"Was not this Harkaway the prime mover in all our disasters?"

"Curse him!"

"Aye, curse him!"

Toro here stepped forward in the centre of the circle which the
brigands had formed.

"If Harkaway is to be dealt with," he said, "I will undertake to lead
you to triumph within three days."

Cheers greeted this speech until Tomaso stepped forward.

"If we want a leader," said he, "we can elect one; we are not in need
of any man to elect himself."

"Stand back," said Toro angrily.

"Fall back yourself," retorted Tomaso, "and obey your superior."

"My superior? Ha, ha! He does not live here," ejaculated Toro fiercely.

The old brigand here once more stepped between the disputants and
interfered.

"Why quarrel over a dead man's shoes while his widow is still in
sight?"

Tomaso fell back at the rebuke, but Toro, less thin-skinned, stuck
boldly to his text.

"If I offer to lead you against the enemy," he said, "it is solely for
our interest generally, not for mine alone."

"Oho!"

"Aye, and I can prove it."

"Do so."

"I will."

"Hear him," said Tomaso derisively: "hear our general benefactor speak
up for us all."

Toro turned upon the speaker savagely. "I can speak to you presently,"
he said significantly, tapping his sword hilt.

"You'll find me ready to answer you in any way," retorted Tomaso
boldly, also tapping his sword.

"I doubt not; meanwhile, I offer myself as the leader, for several
reasons: firstly, I know these Harkaways well, and am more fit to cope
with them than those who have never met them."

Tomaso laughed.

"I doubt that," he said; "why, by your own showing, you have never
gained any signal successes with them."

"No, but I start where you would have to begin; I am armed by
experience, which you lack."

"True, true," exclaimed several of the brigands.

"That sounds fairly enough," replied Tomaso, "but you have ever met
with such signal discomfiture that I, for one, should have small
confidence in your leadership. I don't speak to uphold myself; let any
other leader be chosen--let one of ourselves to wit, not an Italian, or
any other foreigner. Why should not a Greek lead Greeks?"

"Hurrah!"

A general cheer greeted this speech. "Tomaso! Tomaso!" they cried;
"Tomaso for leader!"

Toro's face flushed blood red.

"Hearken to me," he exclaimed, in a voice now hoarse with passion;
"Mathias was a great leader, and I felt it no shame to serve under him,
but I have been in command of as bold and brave a band as this, one far
stronger in point of numbers, and if I am not elected for the command I
shall withdraw altogether. Have me or not, you have the choice; only
this is my determination; I will accept orders from no man here."

"Go, then," said Tomaso; "leave us. You came unbidden, and you may
depart when you please."

A general silence succeeded this speech.

Toro's aid was not to be despised.

His huge body and his muscular arm had gained him the consideration of
most of those lawless men, who literally revered brute strength.

"Wait, wait," said a brigand, stepping forward. "Let us not be too
hasty. Some are for Toro, and some are for Tomaso."

"Well?"

"Say on."

"Let us put it to the vote, and let each of the disputants pledge
himself to abide by the decision."

"Good."

"What says Toro?"

"Agreed."

"And so am I," returned Tomaso, promptly.

"Hands up, then, for Toro."

Half the hands were uplifted and counted over.

"Now for Tomaso."

Up went the hands of the other side, and when they came to tell them
off, it was discovered that the brigands were equally divided in their
choice.

"We cannot have two leaders," said the brigand Ymeniz.

"No, no."

"Then we must have neither, as the matter stands."

"Unless one gives way."

"No," ejaculated the Italian, fiercely, "unless Tomaso likes to decide
by the sword which of us shall have the lead."

"I'm agreed to that," retorted Tomaso, promptly. "Let us fight for it,
and may the best man win."

"Agreed."

"Hurrah, hurrah!"

A ring was formed, and preparations made for the deadly encounter.

As they were not agreed about the choice of weapons, a coin was thrown
up, and Toro won.

Tomaso would have chosen pistols, for he was an excellent shot, and it
gave him the superiority; whereas, although not altogether unskilled in
fence, Toro's superior weight and size gave him a great advantage with
the sword.

However, there was nothing for it now but to fight.

The combatants stripped to the waist, and each received his weapon from
his second.

They were long, heavy swords, cut and thrust, like the heavy cavalry
carry, and with these there could be but one result.

Death!

There were no half measures with these weapons.

"Now, then," exclaimed the Italian, impatiently, "why this dallying? On
guard."

"I am ready," cried Tomaso, gripping his sword firmly.

The swords met with a clash which sent forth a shower of sparks, and
both men recoiled with the force of the shock.

Recovering themselves quickly, however, they went to work in real
savage style, and chopped away at each other with vicious earnestness.

Now Tomaso, it was clear, could not hold his own in a battle wherein
mere brute force was to have the best of it, and feeling himself at a
disadvantage in this respect, he dodged about his adversary as nimbly
as Harlequin himself.

Being very quick-sighted, he saw what sort of a blow was coming ere it
was fairly dealt, and so he shaped his defence.

If it was a desperate stroke, he jumped out of its reach.

If a light one, he turned it off upon the edge of his own weapon.

In this way he worked upon Toro to such an extent that the Italian's
temper got the mastery of him.

Tomaso was attacking him so closely that the Italian looked like losing
the battle.

Toro was bleeding from a dozen small flesh wounds.

Tomaso was, up to this moment, almost unscathed.

Presently he grew over bold, and incautiously trusting himself within
reach, Toro lunged so sharply out that it was only by the merest shave
he escaped being spitted on the Italian's long sword like a lark on a
skewer.

As it was the sword pierced the waistband of his nether garments.

Tomaso stumbled, and so nearly lost his balance that it took him all
his time to parry the next stroke, which was put in with equal
smartness and vigour. One blow, that might have brought down an
elephant, sent Tomaso on to his knees.

The same stroke made a notch in the Greek's weapon half an inch deep.

Had he caught the blow upon the flat of his sword, it would have been
shivered to atoms beyond all doubt.

Toro saw his chance.

Nor was he at all slow to avail himself of it.

Quick as thought, another blow fell, and out of his grasp flew the
Greek's blade.

He lay prostrate at the mercy of his adversary.

"Beg your life," cried Toro, planting his heavy foot firmly upon his
adversary's chest.

"Never,"

"Then die!"

He raised his sword.

But he paused.

Was it the action of a brave man to take the life of a defenceless foe?

Well, it was not the thought of such romantic notions which troubled
Toro; it was simply because there were spectators.

These spectators, he knew, would judge it harshly.

He thirsted for Tomaso's blood.

Yet he dared not indulge in his brutal passion.

Therefore, making a virtue of the necessity, he lowered his sword, and
spurning his beaten adversary with his foot, bade him rise.

"Then take your life unasked," he said coarsely, "and in future learn
to know and to respect your superiors."

Toro's speech was received with cheers by the brigands.




CHAPTER XIV.

THE NEW CAPTAIN-HUNSTON'S TROUBLE-THE ARM AND ITS LEGEND-HOW
EMMERSON'S VENGEANCE WORKS STEALTHILY ON.


"What do you say, men, now?" demanded the huge Italian, as he wiped his
sword.

"Huzza for Toro!"

"Have I fairly earned my right to take the lead here?"

"Yes, yes."

"I want you to be unanimous," he persisted.

"We are."

Toro fixed his eyes upon one or two of the disappointed supporters of
Tomaso, who had not uttered a word since the discomfiture of their
champion, and said to them especially--

"If any of you object to me as a leader, let them come forward now and
speak up."

There were one or two murmuring voices.

"Look," cried the giant Toro, "men all, if any here still denies my
power, let them step forward, and this sword shall prove my right."

This was final.

After the manner in which Toro had just dealt with their friend Tomaso,
they were not encouraged to provoke a quarrel. And so, by his daring
audacity and brute strength, Toro the Italian raised himself to the
leadership of the Greek brigands.

None dared to dispute his sway from that moment.

Some had a difficulty to swallow the bitter pill, but the alternative
was so very unpleasant that they got over it.

       *       *       *       *       *

And Harkaway's enemy Hunston?

Why has he fallen so into the background of late?

His sole thoughts have been engrossed by the fearful sufferings to
which he is subject.

That dreadful arm--the legacy of vengeance of the murdered Emmerson.
Where the evil was it baffled all his skill to discover.

Slowly yet surely this horrible piece of mechanism was eating away its
wearer's life.

"It seems almost as though some subtle poison were slowly injected into
my body through this arm," thought Hunston, "and yet I can not work
without it."

Never was vengeance more terrible than that of the dead Robert
Emmerson.

The wonder was that Hunston lived through it.

His constitution must have been of iron.

The arm was removed, but only with infinite trouble and suffering; and
then, after some considerable time, Hunston began to experience a faint
sense of relief.

The sufferings slowly diminished.

This convinced Hunston that he had been correct in supposing that the
poison was concealed in the mechanical arm.

He laid bare as much of it as he could without permanently damaging it,
and pored over it for hours at a stretch.

To what good?

None.

Now this limb was the work of no common artificer.

It was the work of a hand of rare cunning.

A master spirit had invented it, and its mystery was far too deep to be
penetrated by a common bungler.

Hunston was at last so tortured that, disguising himself, he one day
left the mountains, and sought the advice of a surgeon.

"The man who planned this arm," said the surgeon to whom Hunston
submitted it for examination, "must have devoted a lifetime to the
manufacture and perfecting of this mechanical limb."

Hunston smiled.

He knew too well how little time the wretched man Emmerson gave to any
thing like industrial pursuits.

"What is this?" asked this same surgeon, pointing to the flat of the
arm, where the engraved legend was almost obscured with a dark stain.

Hunston changed colour and fidgeted about.

"I don't know."

"There is something written."

"Yes, yes, so I believe, but it is obscured by that stain--a stain--"

He peered closer into the arm yet, and looked serious, as turning to
Hunston, he said--

"Why, it is a blood-stain."

"No, no!" replied Hunston, hurriedly; "impossible. It can not be."

"Impossible or not," said the surgeon, "blood it is, and nothing but
blood. Yet I see that, in spite of this stain, the reading is clear
enough."

"Scarcely," said Hunston.

"It is, though, and it is in English, I should say, too."

"Yes."

"Can't you read it?"

"No."

"Strange. Yet you are English."

"Yes."

"Well, I have some English friends here to whom I will show it, and--"

Hunston broke in impatiently at this.

"English here!" he exclaimed. "Where do they live?"

"At the villa--"

"What, the Harkaway family, do you mean?"

"Yes."

"And you would take it there?"

"Why not? Mr. Harkaway is a clever man. He is surrounded also by clever
people; there is a curious old gentleman there, too, an old gentleman
of great learning, and he might be enabled to throw some light upon the
secret, which even the closest scrutiny can not penetrate."

Hunston listened to the end, but not without having to exercise a
certain amount of self-control.

"How is this old gentleman called--this clever, learned old gentleman?"

"You seem to say that with a sneer, sir," said the surgeon; "but you
may rely upon it he is a very great _savant_--a man of great
accomplishments--and a warrior who has--"

"Who has lost two legs!"

"Yes. You know him?"

"Slightly; his name is Mole."

"It is."

"And you would take my arm to these people for them to stare and gape
at. No, sir; I am foolish enough to seek to conceal my affliction from
the world, and by the aid of this wonderful arm I have been hitherto
successful."

The doctor bowed.

"So I beg you will keep my secret."

"Rely upon it."

Hunston showed all his old cunning in this speech. Yet all his
inquiries, all his researches, availed him nothing.

The work of the dead Robert Emmerson remained as before, an inscrutable
mystery. It remained the silent executor of its creator's vengeance.

Slowly, yet surely fulfilling the blood-stained legend on the steel
arm.




CHAPTER XV.

HUNSTON AGAIN AT WORK-THE DANCING GARDEN--MARIETTA AND HER
GOSSIP-GREAT NEWS--THE ARREST--WHAT CHARGE?--MURDER.


Hunston's infirmity had told in many ways.

He had sunk to be a mere nonentity in the band.

Now he was but too pleased to be left at peace when in his great
suffering; yet no sooner did he recover health and spirits a little
than his old interest revived, and with his interest all the old
jealousies.

He bitterly resented Toro's assumption of the command.

"Let the blustering bully fool impose upon them if he will," he said to
himself again and again; "he never could take me in. It shall be my
task to show them who can render the most real service to the band."

Their programme suited Hunston well.

What could better have accorded with his humour than the devotion of
all their time, thought, and energies to the persecution--perhaps to
the entire destruction, of the Harkaway family?

It was all gone on with avowedly to avenge the death of Mathias.

Little cared Hunston about the dead brigand chief.

Indeed, but for the presence of his widow in their midst, and the
occasional mention of his name, Hunston would, in all probability, have
forgotten that he had ever existed.

As it was, he made it his especial task to hang about the parts of the
town where the Harkaways were most likely to be met. And never did he
appear twice in the same dress.

One evening, strolling into a dancing garden, he chanced to come upon a
smart young lady, whose appearance attracted his attention at once.

"I know her well," he said to himself, "though where I have seen her is
a puzzle to me for a moment."

The merry antics of one of the dancers caused her to laugh, and then he
recognised the sound of her voice immediately.

"Marietta!"

Surely he should not so soon have forgotten her.

Was it not upon the occasion of her memorable exploits at the gardens
of the Contessa Maraviglia that he had last seen her--that night when
poor Magog Brand met his fate?

As soon as he recognised her, he made up his mind to escort her.

So first (to assure himself of the excellence of his disguise) catching
a cursory glance of his shadow in a mirror, he crossed the garden, and
stepping up to her side, he addressed her.

"Do you not join the dance, signorina?" he said.

The waiting maid in reply only cocked her chin haughtily and moved
away.

"You are proud, Marietta, to-night," said Hunston.

She turned upon hearing her name mentioned.

"I do not know you, sir."

"But you see I know you, Marietta, and what is more, if you were to ask
your master Mr. Harkaway or Mrs. Harkaway about their friend Saville, I
dare say they would not say any thing very bad about him."

Marietta curtseyed in some confusion.

"I don't remember seeing you at the villa, signor," she said, "so pray
excuse me."

"No excuses, pretty Marietta; I am not a very constant visitor, yet I
have seen you, and yours is a face once seen not easily forgotten."

Marietta, like a true daughter of Eve, did not object to this sort of
thing.

And so she fell into the trap which he set for her with so little
pains.

That is, she grew gossipy and communicative.

"And does Master Jack come here sometimes?" asked the sham Mr. Saville.

She shook her head.

"Never."

"Mamma would object, of course," he said lightly; "this is such a
wicked place for her good, mild, innocent boy to come to."

Marietta laughed a good deal at hearing young Jack spoken of thus.

"Neither of the young gentlemen are too innocent," she said; "but yet
they don't come here."

"Possibly they have no taste for this sort of thing," suggested
Hunston.

Marietta shrugged her shoulders.

"They are forbidden to go about alone."

"Why?"

"I don't know--some fancy of the ladies. They think that the brigands
are always lurking about, ready to drop upon their boys."

"Ha, ha, ha!" laughed Hunston; "a very good joke."

"Is it not? Although I must tell you that there is some reason for
fear, for I have twice come across the--"

"Across who?"

"The brigands."

"Impossible."

"It is true."

"The miscreants. Did they steal any thing?"

"Well, only a few--a few kisses."

"Hum!" said Hunston, "that was excusable. It is a sort of pilfering
which I would willingly indulge in myself."

"I dare say," answered Marietta saucily, "but I have discovered how to
use my weapons in self-defence."

"What weapons?"

"These."

She held up her ten pretty little claws. A tiny hand they were mounted
on, too.

Hunston surveyed it with the eye of a connoisseur, and looked the
admiration he wished to convey quite extravagantly enough for a vain
woman to understand his meaning.

"Exquisite," he said. "It would be flattery even to be scratched by
such models."

She laughed.

He resumed.

"And so they never go forth for fear of the brigands?"

"Never."

"Their lives must be wretched, so confined to the house."

"Aye, but they go out to sea."

"To sea?"

"Yes, in their sailing boat; the two boys are always out fishing,
sailing, and what not."

Hunston pricked up his ears at these tidings.

"Yes, on the water they are allowed full liberty, for brigands and
cats, according to Signor Harvey, are the two animals that fear the
water most."

"Ha, ha, ha!" laughed Hunston, "very good indeed, but I never knew that
brigands so feared the water."

"So Signor Harvey says," replied Marietta. "Indeed he says that a bar
of soap and a bowl of water would frighten a brigand more than a whole
armoury of firearms."

This was true.

Brigands may look picturesque when seen from a distance.

At close quarters they are, to put it mildly, objectionable.

If they do not hold soap and water in absolute fear, as Dick Harvey
said, they at least look upon them as vanities and effeminacies
unworthy of desperadoes.

       *       *       *       *       *

"So, so," muttered Hunston, as he walked away, "I shall secure them
yet. For through the boys I can get at the father and at Harvey. Hah!"

At this precise moment a heavy hand was placed upon his shoulder.

There was a professional touch in it, which once felt could never be
forgotten.

Hunston had felt such a clutch once in England, and the recollection
was likely to last him as long as he lived.

He forgot where he was, every thing, and instinctively he faltered this
inquiry--

"On what charge?"

"Murder!"

He knew the voice.

He had no need to look round; the voice was not one easily forgotten.

It was our old friend Pike, the English detective.

"Yes, Hunston," replied the officer coolly. "You have been giving me a
lot of trouble, but it was only a question of time and patience, I
knew. Come along; you are my prisoner."




CHAPTER XVI.

A GREAT DANGER--OFF AND AWAY!--POOR PIKE.


Hunston quailed. He was lost.

So suddenly--so unexpectedly had this come, that he was utterly
powerless to help himself.

Had he been wearing the mechanical arm, he might have able to tackle
the wiry officer Pike.

Bitterly did he curse his unlucky fate.

Recovering himself, however, in some slight degree, he endeavoured to
shake off the detective's hold.

"Quiet, now, quiet, Master Hunston," said Pike, "or I shall have to try
means for tranquilising you which you won't find agree with you."

"Show me your warrant for this outrage," said Hunston.

"Outrage! Hoity, toity! that's a good word."

"I shall call the police to my assistance if you attempt to molest me,"
said Hunston, putting on a lofty air.

This tickled Pike mightily.

"Call the police, will you?" he said. "Well, I shan't, for I flatter
myself that I don't want much assistance to walk off with such a man as
you--even if you were not lopsided."

Hunston turned savagely upon the detective at this allusion to his
crippled state and made an attempt at using his one arm upon him.

But Pike was--to put it vulgarly--all there.

He dexterously dodged the blow, and whirling round secured a hold upon
Hunston's collar--that peculiar grip which is the specialty of men who
have been in the force.

Hunston struggled desperately to get free. In vain.

Do what he would, he found himself being trotted along to save himself
from strangulation.

Not only was it physically painful.

Hunston had an overweening sense of his own importance and dignity, and
this being run in just like some paltry pickpocket in a crowd, was
galling to his vanity beyond all description.

What could he do?

He was powerless.

The wondering people stared at this singular exhibition, but they
parted their ranks as Pike and his prisoner came along, and never
offered to interfere.

Now, during this brief but painful business, Hunston's thoughts ran
right ahead of the present dilemma.

He endeavoured to realise some of the possible consequences of it.

The arrest was, he felt assured, illegal.

What then?

What could result from such a proceeding?

Would they detain him?

Could they?--that was the question.

The British ambassador might be influenced by people of the rank and
position of the Harkaways.

This granted, it was easy enough for his excellency to waive legal
forms and ceremonies there, and get Hunston transferred to the safe
keeping of the English authorities.

At this point Hunston could not repress a shudder.

And why? He thought of what must necessarily follow.

His fevered fancy flew ahead, and he saw himself in the dock, faced by
the stony-faced judge, and put through the torture of cross-examination
which laid bare the innermost recesses of his black heart in spite of
himself.

He saw further on yet.

He shut his eyes as he went on and heard the tramp of the twelve jurors
re-entering the court in the midst of a profound and awesome silence.

He heard the solemn formula; he heard the hollow voice of the foreman
give the verdict--

"Guilty!"

All that he heard and saw in his mind's eye, in that brief but
unpleasant hustling he had to go through at the hands of the ungenerous
and indefatigable officer Daniel Pike.

And Hunston now, being half cowed by his captor, was being driven
through the streets like a lamb to the slaughter, when a sudden and
startling incident changed the whole spirit of the scene, even in the
twinkling of an eye.

A musket, grasped in a strong hand by the barrel, was swung over their
heads, and down it came with an awful crack upon poor Pike's head.

Down he dropped like a bullock under the butcher's pole-axe.

And Hunston was free.

For a few seconds he could not realise his release, so sudden and
unexpected it had been.

"Come along," said a voice in his ear; "away with you, or we shall get
into trouble here."

This aroused him.

He recognised the voice of Tomaso the brigand, and it brought him to
his presence of mind.

Off he started at a good brisk run in the direction that his preserver
had taken.

And soon was out of danger.

But Tomaso was not so fortunate.

Following Hunston at a more leisurely pace, he had not gone many yards,
when a firm grip was placed upon his shoulder.

"Halt!" said a voice.

The brigand turned hastily, and found himself in the firm clutch of the
detective.

"I have caught you at last, villain!" exclaimed Pike the detective, as
he twisted his hand into the collar of the garment Tomaso wore instead
of a shirt.

Then, before the astonished brigand had time either to remonstrate or
resist, the Englishman exhibited to him that particular form of
wrestling known as the "cross buttock," and stretched him at full
length on the ground.

Another moment and a pair of real Bow Street handcuffs snapped on
Tomaso's wrists.

"Neatly done; don't you think so?" said Pike.

Tomaso's answer was a tremendous Greek oath.

"You're swearing, I believe. Now that is a bad habit at all times, and
very foolish just now, because you see it don't hurt me, inasmuch as I
don't understand it," said Pike, who, after a brief, stern survey of
his captive, added--

"If you cursed me in English, though, I don't know but what I might be
tempted to punch your ugly head."

Tomaso remained silent, and Pike, after pausing some seconds, helped
him to his feet.

"Now you are all right, and will come back quietly with me. But how do
the bracelets fit? I've got another pair in my pocket."

"You had better release me," observed Tomaso.

"Now that is very ridiculous, my friend. Why should I take the trouble
of capturing you, if I let you run again directly?"

"It will be much to your disadvantage to imprison me, Signor
Englishman. An injured Greek is always avenged in some way."

"Just so; however, I'll risk that"

Pike's coolness added to the rage of the brigand, whose passion fairly
boiled over.

"May all the infernal gods my forefathers worshipped--may the fiend I--"

"Serve," suggested Pike.

"The fiend I would willingly serve, or sell my soul to, for vengeance,
visit you with his direst displeasure, and may all the plagues of Egypt
blight you!"

"Thank ye, that's a very pleasant speech; something like what I used to
hear at the theatre. But, old friend, you made one little blunder."

"You will see if I have blundered."

"One little blunder, when you spoke of selling your soul. Lor' bless
you, Old Scratch isn't such a fool as to buy nowadays, whatever he may
have done years ago."

Another angry exclamation from Tomaso.

"You see, the old gentleman has gained some experience as a trader, and
he knows well enough that if he waits a little time, he'll get you all
free-gratis for nothing at all."

"You are a devil, Englishman."

"And you are not exactly an angel. However, if I am a devil, you may
consider you are regularly sold to me. So now come along; keep your
hands under your cloak, and no one will notice the little decorations
on your wrists."

"You are a devil, Signor Englishman; but you will die for this."

"Pshaw! I've collared scores of desperate villains, and they all said
something of the same kind, yet here I am,"

"You will die," repeated Tomaso.

"Some clay, of course; but we have a proverb in England; would you like
to hear it?"

Tomaso tossed his head with lofty indifference.

"The proverb," continued Pike, "is that 'Threatened men live long.'"

He then took Tomaso by the arm, and led him on.

"But stop," said he, "those pistols in your girdle are very heavy. I'll
carry them for you, and the knife as well."




CHAPTER XVII.

THE DECOY--A THROW OF THE DICE--THE EXECUTION.


Before Pike and his captive had gone far on their return journey,
Harkaway and Harvey, with two or three of the gendarmes, and a minute
after Jefferson, came up.

"You have caught him then. Hurrah!" said Dick Harvey.

"But this is not Hunston," said Harkaway.

"No, sir; he managed to get clean away. But we'll have him yet."

An old goatherd, who had scrambled down near to the place where the
captor and prisoner stood, might have been seen to indulge in a
contemptuous smile.

We say might, because the fact is that all were so much elated at the
capture of Tomaso that the very presence of the old stranger had
hitherto remained unnoticed.

Nor did he seem to court attention, but remained behind a bush, in a
spot, however, where he could hear all that passed.

"Well, we must take this fellow back to the town, and hand him over to
the authorities," said Harvey.

"And then hunt down Master Hunston," remarked old Jack. "I wish we knew
where to look for him."

"He took this direction," remarked Pike.

"True."

"And, therefore, it is in this direction that we must look for him."

"Right again," remarked Dick Harvey.

"But as he is associated with some desperate fellows, it would be as
well to place this gentleman in the hands of the authorities before we
seek him. It is not good to go into action with prisoners on our
hands."

As all agreed on this point, they walked back with the prisoner, and
had the pleasure of seeing him put into a cell from which, apparently,
there was no way of escape, even the fire-place having been bricked up
since the attempt of Mathias to gain freedom that way. By the time that
was done it was too late to think of starting that day, so our friends
retired to hold a council of war.

Pike, however, took no part in the consultation.

That astute detective had formed in his own mind a resolution that, if
it were possible, he would capture Hunston single-handed, thus covering
himself with glory, and at the same time keeping the Harkaways and
Harvey out of danger.

Pike knew that it was a difficult thing to keep them out of danger, and
that if they heard any thing about the brigands, they would be the very
ones to lead an attack.

Pike walked up and down, smoking and reflecting on the difficulties
which surrounded his task.

He had not thoroughly matured his plans when the sun went down and the
moon rose.

Few people were abroad.

The audacity the brigands had recently displayed had convinced most
people that they were safer indoors than out.

As Pike walked up and down the quiet street, he noticed an old man
crouched up in a corner, wrapped in a tattered cloak, and apparently
intending to pass the night there.

"Hilloa, my friend, what are you? Are you one of the brigands?"

Pike uttered the words in a jocular manner, but the old man felt deeply
offended.

"Sir Englishman, you insult me."

"I apologise. I had no intention of doing so."

"A brigand! Signor, I am here--houseless and penniless in my old age
through those accursed villains! May Sathanas fly away with their
souls."

"Well, old man, perchance you will be avenged before long."

"It is what I pray for. They burnt my hut, cut down my two fine olive
trees, and drove off my little flock of goats."

The old man covered his face, and appeared to sob violently.

"When was this?" asked Pike.

"Scarce three hours since."

"Was there with them a foreigner--one of my country?"

"I know not what country they were of, but besides the Greeks, there
were two men who seemed leaders; one was called Signor Toro, the other
was named Hunston."

"How many were there in all?"

"Three Greeks besides the two foreigners."

"Do you know any thing of the haunts of these brigands, friend
goatherd?"

"Aye, well. But till now I have never dreamt of betraying them, for
they never before molested me."

"Lead me to their den."

"You, signer? Why, they are at least five in number, and you are but--"

"But an Englishman! that makes all the difference, friend goatherd, so
pray lead on. Here, take a drink from my flask first."

The old man accepted the proffered drink, and then said--

"Well, signor, it is a desperate and dangerous undertaking; but I know
you English can do almost any thing, so I will show you the way. And if
it comes to a fight, I shall be at your elbow, signor."

"True."

Without mentioning his intentions, or saying a word to any of his
friends, the detective passed his arm through that of the goatherd and
walked away.

Little conversation passed.

The detective was full of hopeful anxiety about the capture of Hunston;
and as for the goatherd, it may be presumed that the loss of his goats
afforded him plenty of food for silent reflection.

They passed the place where Tomaso was captured, and then turned aside
out of the road into a dense wood which covered the side of a rocky
hill.

It appeared as though the old goatherd was "out of condition," as the
athletes say; at all events, the scramble up the rough path brought on
a loud and distressing cough.

"Be quiet," said Pike; "you will alarm them."

"No fear of that, signor; we are more than a mile from the den of the
villains."

So they scrambled and climbed away, till at length they reached a place
where Pike found it necessary to use hands as well as feet to make
progress.

He had just put up both hands to grasp a boulder over which it was
necessary to climb, when, to his intense astonishment, each wrist was
grasped by a couple of strong hands, and in another moment he was
forcibly dragged up.

"The tables are turned now, Mr. Pike," said a voices "You will remain
our prisoner till Tomaso is released."

It was so dark that Pike could not see the speaker, but he had no doubt
that it was Hunston.

The impression was confirmed in an instant by the goatherd, who said in
a jeering manner--

"Ha, ha, ha! Why don't you capture him? You were so very brave to talk,
yet you do nothing."

Pike, by a sudden jerk, wrenched himself from his captors, and dealt
the mocking brigand--for he was nothing more--a blow that doubled him
up among the rocks.

But before the detective could escape, he was thrown down himself, and
bound hand and foot.

Half-a-dozen Greek brigands then raised him and bore him away.

How far he could not tell, but it seemed, as far as he could guess,
five or six miles.

At length they reached a little open glade in the forest where at least
a score of brigands were assembled,

"You have him, then?" said a huge fellow, who spoke with an Italian
accent.

"Yes."

"Tie him to that tree."

It was done.

"Now listen," said Toro--for he it was who had given the command. "If
Tomaso is not at liberty and here among us at noon, you shall die."

"I can not set him at liberty."

"You can do a great deal towards it. Unfasten one of his arms--his
right arm."

Pike's right arm was then released, and, in obedience to Toro's
command, a small table was placed close to him.

On this table were pens, ink and paper.

"Now write to your friend Harkaway, and tell him that unless Tomaso is
released by noon, as I have told you, death is your doom."

So Pike wrote--

"I am in the hands of the brigands, and unless Tomaso is released by
noon, I shall be killed. But I am not afraid to die; hold your captive
fast."

Having signed it, he held it out to Toro, who read it, and then called
a messenger, to whom he entrusted it for delivery.

Then the brigands sat down to breakfast, and Pike was left to his
contemplations. These, as may be imagined, were not of the most
pleasant kind.

Hour after hour passed.

The brigands were some sleeping, some playing cards, and all enjoying
themselves in some way, but no one took any notice of the prisoner.

The sun rode high in the heavens, and it was evidently approaching
noon, when the messenger returned from the town with a letter.

It was addressed to Pike, but Toro opened it.

It was not from Harkaway, but from the chief of the police, informing
the unfortunate detective that the Greek government declined to make
any terms or drive any bargain with brigands, but that any ill usage
Mr. Pike might suffer would be most effectually avenged.

"You hear this?" said Toro.

"I do."

"Then say what prayers you remember, and make your peace with Heaven,
for at noon you die."

"Let me be the executioner," said a brigand who stood by.

"Not so," exclaimed another; "the task is mine by right."

"Peace!" said Toro. "The dice shall decide his fate. The highest
thrower shall have the pleasure of shooting him."

The brigands, in obedience to a signal from the chief, gathered round
him, a short distance from the prisoner.

Dice were produced and the game began.

"Double four," cried the first thrower.

"That man stands a good chance of being my executioner," thought Pike.
"To fancy that I, who have been the terror of evil-doers in England,
should be the sport of these dirty brigands. Why, I could well thrash
half-a-dozen of them in a fair stand-up fight."

At this moment a loud peal of laughter greeted the second dicer.

"Ace--two."

"My chance is worthless," said the man.

"Worthless!" muttered Pike to himself. "Aye, you are indeed worthless,
compared with some of the English villains I have hunted down and
fought for life or death. I could die like a man if I only had to die
in a fair hand-to-hand fight with such a man as Birmingham Bill, the
very first murderer I ever coped with; but I'll show them how an
Englishman can die."

"Double six!" shouted one of the brigands, as he threw the dice.

The man was the smallest and ugliest of the lot, but it seemed very
probable that he would be Pike's executioner. At all events, he
carefully loaded his carbine.

"To be shot by such a villain as that!" thought Pike. "It would have
been better if one of the shots fired by that burglar fellow they call
the 'Whitechapel, Devil' had taken effect; six times he fired, and then
we had a good ten minutes' tussle before I could secure him."

At length all the brigands had thrown with the exception of Toro.

"Double six again!"

As it was a tie between the two, each had another throw. The little
ugly brigand threw.

"Two--three."

Toro then took up the dice, shook them well in the box and made his
cast.

"Five--four!"

And Toro was hailed the winner.

"Prisoner, I give you two minutes to prepare."

"Brigand, I am prepared. Such sins as I have committed, I have repented
of, so do your worst; but rest assured that vengeance will some day
overtake you. To Heaven I commend my soul!"

With as much composure as if he had been practising at an inanimate
target, Toro raised his gun, and counted--

"One!"

"Two!"

"Three!"

At the word three, he pulled the trigger. The report echoed from rock
to rock, and the head and body of poor Pike fell forward, as far as the
ropes that secured him to the tree would permit.

He was dead, the bullet having penetrated the brain.

       *       *       *       *       *

That evening, as Harkaway, Harvey, and Jefferson returned from an
unsuccessful attempt to rouse the authorities, they found that two men
had left a heavy package at the house.

On opening it, they were horrified to find it a section of a hollow
tree, nearly every portion of the wood having crumbled away, leaving
the bark intact.

And in the hollow was the body of the poor detective and a brief note.

"The fate of all brigand hunters. Beware!--TORO."

"Vengeance for this, at all events," exclaimed Harkaway.

"Poor Pike! We should be unworthy of the name of Englishmen did we not
punish thy murderers."

He wrote a note to the mayor.

"SIR,--In the huge package that accompanies this note, you will find
the body of an Englishman, who has this day been murdered by brigands;
I call upon you, in the name of Heaven, to rout these murderers out of
their dens, and bring them to justice. Should you show any backwardness
in so doing, I shall deem it necessary to appeal to the English
ambassador.

                             "Your obedient servant,
                                  "J. HARKAWAY."

Having despatched a couple of messengers with the body and letter, they
sat down with sorrowful hearts and small appetites to their evening
meal.




CHAPTER XVIII.

HUNSTON IN THE CAMP AGAIN--RETROSPECTION--A DEVILISH PLOT--DARK
CLOUDS GATHER OVER THE HARKAWAYS.


"Who goes there?"

"A friend."

"The word?"

"Mathias."

"Stand; advance a step, and I fire. Ha! I see you now. I did not
recognise your voice, Hunston."

"I thought not; but why all this precaution?"

"Fear has induced us to change the countersign. We believe there is
mischief abroad, and so extra precautions are needed."

"Right, Ymeniz," said Hunston, who had been out scouting for a few
hours after the execution of Pike, "although it is to be feared that
the blindness which prevents your recognition of a friend and comrade
may mislead you as to the real character of an enemy, should one dare
to penetrate thus far."

The sentry laughed.

"Fear nothing on that score, Hunston," he said.

"Indeed I do."

"My carefulness may turn even friends into enemies, but fear, or over
carefulness--"

"It is much the same thing," suggested Hunston.

"Right; but it is not likely to make me take foes for friends."

"I doubt it."

"You have a cunning tongue, friend Hunston," said the sentry, who was
just a little bit nettled, "but I don't believe that you could prove
that to my satisfaction."

"I might do it to the one or the other," returned Hunston, caustically;
"but certainly not to both, the two are so opposed."

This was just a dash too subtle for the sentry, and so Hunston passed
on without further remark.

A few steps further on he came to a group formed of the brigands,
gathered around Pedro, a brigand who had been of some little assistance
in the rescue of Hunston, but who unlike Tomaso, had managed to escape.

He was recounting the late adventures--from his own episode in the
tale--of Hunston.

Hunston walked up to the centre of the group.

"Pedro," he said, "you rescued me, and perhaps saved my life; accept my
hand, and with it my eternal gratitude." Pedro stepped back. He winced
instead of taking the proffered hand, and his countenance fell.

"Pardon me Hunston," he said; "I'm very glad to have been of service to
you, to have been able to save a comrade, but--"

He paused.

Hunston frowned.

"But what?"

"Don't be too grateful."

The tone, no less than the nature of the request, sounded just a little
bit comical, and it made the bystanders, Hunston included, smile.

"What do you mean by that, my preserver? Why should I not be grateful?"

"Because I have heard it said that your gratitude brought bad luck to
anyone who had really befriended you."

Hunston started.

He thought of Robert Emmerson.

That arm did its inventor's work well, indeed.

Not a day passed but Hunston realised the truth of the legend inscribed
on the mechanical arm.

Not a day passed, but that he saw how fearfully was the legacy of
vengeance bequeathed by the murdered Protean Bob being carried out.

Dropping his glance in some confusion for a moment, he turned sharply
upon the brigand after a little reflection.

Pedro could know nothing of the death of Emmerson.

Nay, it was more than probable that the very name was utterly unknown
to these men.

"You wish to insult me, Pedro," he said, "and so cancel the obligation
I am under to you. But beware of going too far, for you may leave a
balance upon the wrong side, and I am as quick to avenge an insult as
to--"

Pedro interrupted him with a laugh.

"What did I say? I have only just rendered you a great service--at
least, so you say--"

"And mean."

"And mean, perhaps; and yet you are already threatening me. When I said
that your gratitude is said to bring bad luck to anyone, I was only
repeating an idle saying--as I thought--but it seems like the truth,
after all."

Hunston was moving thoughtfully away, when the brigand's words stopped
him.

"Forgive me, Pedro," he said, turning round; "I am a bad, ungrateful
man, but I'm not utterly wanting in decent feeling. You touch me on a
very sore spot."

So saying he walked on, leaving Pedro staring after him.

"That's a queer lot," muttered the brigand to himself, "a very queer
lot. I think I would sooner have the murder of a priest on my
conscience than be weighted with the deeds that he'll have to answer
for."

Pedro was no fool.

His observations were pretty well to the point.

Hunston felt the pangs of remorse.

Daily, hourly, in fact, he looked back and thought of what he was, and
what he might have been had not his vicious propensities got the upper
hand of him at the critical turn in his career.

And so the demon remorse played havoc with him already.

The mechanical arm was responsible for all. Its mysterious
disorganisation had been the direct cause of his forced inactivity.

What gives ugly thoughts such power over one as bodily inactivity?

Nothing.

Robert Emmerson, your vengeance is as terrible as it is unceasing in
its action.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hunston sought the widow of Mathias.

"I have made good progress, Diana," he said, "for I have learnt enough
about the enemy to make sure of getting some of them at least into our
power."

The listener's eyes glistened at the words.

"Are you sure?"

"Yes."

"What do you propose to do, then? Tell me."

"Harkaway has a son--a mere youth."

"I know it."

"Well, this boy is a dare-devil, bold and fearless lad; nothing can
daunt him. He is, in fact, what his hated father was when first I knew
him, years and years ago."

A faint and half-suppressed sigh escaped him as he uttered this.

"What of this boy?"

"This boy has a companion called Harry Girdwood."

"Well."

"Well, these two boys are to be trapped, if it be gone about carefully
--very carefully, mark you."

"That can be done, of course."

"It can--by you."

Diana stared again at this.

"By me?"

"Yes."

"How?"

"Listen. They pay a certain respect to us--hold us in some fear, in
fact--and the boys, who are regular rovers, like their parents and
friends, have only permission to cruise about in their little yacht."

"How did you learn this?"

"From Marietta, the servant of the Harkaways."

"Hah!"

"Now, with care, the boys might be lured, perhaps, away from the part
of the coast which they know, and let them once touch the shore out of
sight and hearing of their friends--"

"I see, I see," ejaculated the widow of Mathias. "I can entrap them, I
believe. But tell me first, what is the object of securing these two
boys?"

"The object!" ejaculated Hunston. "Why, surely that is clear enough.
Let us once get hold of them, and we can make any terms we like with
the father and friends. We shall have to dictate the conditions, and
Harkaway will have no choice but to accept them."

"I see, I see," cried Diana, excitedly. "Leave the rest to me; I'll
undertake to get them into our power."

"How?"

"No matter how; you have done your share of the business. Be mine the
task to secure the rest."

"When?"

"To-morrow."

"Good!" said Hunston, gleefully, "good! I feel a presentiment of luck.
I'm not superstitious, but I feel as certain now that we shall succeed
--as certain as if the boys were already in our power."

"They shall be," returned the woman, solemnly, "they shall be. I swear
it!"




CHAPTER XIX.

JACK AND HARRY GIRDWOOD AFLOAT--THE SQUALL--THE SHIPWRECKED
BOY--DEEDS OF HEROISM--THEIR REWARD--A DEADLY PERIL.


"Down with sail, Jack; we shall be over if we are not sprightly," said
Harry.

Young Jack laughed.

The thought of danger actually made him merry, and so proved that he
was every inch a Harkaway--a thorough chip of the old block.

"There's no fear, old fellow," he said.

A sudden gust of wind caught the sail, and caused the boat to give such
a lurch at this very moment that both the boys were sent flying.

They got some hard knocks.

But neither was afraid of a little rough usage, and so they only
scrambled to their feet, laughing boisterously, as if there was great
fun in barked shins and bruised arms.

"I told you so, Jack," said Harry Girdwood.

"No harm done," retorted Jack, rubbing a damaged part and grinning.

"No, but don't let us be too foolish; we might get into trouble."

Young Jack roared at this.

"Soho-ho!" he cried. "Shipped another passenger, Harry, have you?"

"What do you mean?"

"Why, you've got Captain Funk aboard."

"Not I," returned Harry, "only if we get into any foolish scrape, they
won't let us come out for a sail again, and as this is the only jaunt
left us, we may as well keep ourselves quiet."

"There's something in that," said young Jack,

So saying, he set about reefing the sail with all possible despatch.

Now it was barely accomplished when a violent gust of wind drove the
little craft along at a furious rate.

It was only just in time.

A moment more and the sail would have been shredded, or, what was still
worse, the boat would have been capsized for a certainty.

Harry Girdwood lowered the oars and pulled sharply along before the
fury of the gale, while young Jack baled out a little water that had
been shipped in the first heavy lurch, before the youthful mariners had
been fully prepared for such violent treatment, and steered at the same
time.

In this way they contrived to elude the violence of the gale for the
present, at least.

But the danger was by no means overcome.

They had not got through the worst of their trouble as yet, little as
they anticipated any serious danger.

The gale had come on with strange suddenness, and the truth was that
they could hardly realize the extent of their danger.

It was great.

There was, perhaps, a special providence in their ignorance of their
real peril, for their coolness alone gave them any chance in the
present emergency.

They were brave boys both--never were there braver--yet it is no
disparagement of them to say that there was very great probability of
their losing their _sang froid_ if they had known how very
critical their position actually was.

As it happened, they did the very best thing to do under the
circumstances.

They kept their boat before the wind, and by vigorous rowing, they
contrived to drive along at a rate which was literally tremendous.

And so on they scudded for about ten miles, when the wind dropped a
little, and the pace began to tell upon them both.

"Keep her off shore, Jack," cried Harry Girdwood.

"Right."

The wind and rain had half blinded young Jack, and although he had said
"Right," he steered decidedly wrong.

He could not see where they were going.

"Look out!"

Harry Girdwood only just spoke in time for young Jack to take heed of
the warning, for a minute later and they shot past some sharp, jagged
rocks, into which they would inevitably have dashed but for a lucky tug
at the rudder at the very last moment.

Now the roar of the wind and waters had just begun to lull a little,
when a loud cry for help was heard.

And then, for the first time, they perceived that a boat had just been
launched by a boy at not more than thirty yards along the beach, and
being carried out to sea by a huge receding wave, had become
unmanageable.

They could see with half an eye that the boy had no skill in handling a
boat.

"Help, help!" cried the strange lad, waving his hand in distress
towards their boat.

"All right," shouted young Jack. "We're there."

Harry Girdwood pulled vigorously towards the venturesome youth.

A few strokes brought them within twenty feet of the imperilled youth,
and he would have been got away in safety but for his own folly and
imprudence.

"Sit still," shouted young Jack. "Sit still."

"He'll be overboard," ejaculated Harry, glancing over his shoulder.

The words of the latter proved but too prophetic

A cry from young Jack--a piercing shriek from the other boat.

When Harry Girdwood glanced over his shoulder again, he saw the other
boat, keel upwards, floating away.

The unfortunate youth, its late occupant, was nowhere to be seen.

"He's gone!"

"He has," cried young Jack, starting up, "and by all that's unlucky, he
can't swim. Pull on, pull hard. Pull for mercy's sake."

And young Jack stood up in the boat, tearing off his jacket and
waistcoat.

"What are you after?"

"I'm in after him."

"Jack, Jack, you'll never live in this heavy sea."

"Never fear, old boy, I'll try."

"You shall not, I say. You--"

"Here goes," cried young Jack.

And before Harry Girdwood could interfere, over he went, head first,
into the boiling waves.

Harry Girdwood held his breath in sheer fright.

He shipped his oars and peered over the boat's side.

Where was he?

Would he never come up?

Oh, Heaven! what a fearful time it seemed that the intrepid boy was
under water.

It seemed an age.

In reality it was but a minute, no more, before young Jack struck up to
the surface.

He struck out with one hand--the other grasped something.

"Harry."

"Yes, Jack."

"I've got him."

"Hold tight."

"I mean to," responded young Jack, with great coolness, all things
considered.

And now Harry could see that Jack's left hand was twined in the black
flowing hair of the half senseless boy.

The latter had no sooner reached the air and gulped down a breath or
two greedily, than consciousness came partly back, and he threw his
arms about his preserver and struggled desperately.

"Leave go," cried young Jack. "Let go, or we shall both go down
together."

But it is not easy to reason with a drowning man.

Young Jack found himself now in a desperate strait indeed.

The frantic efforts of the rescued boy impeded his movements, entirely
baffling the heroic Jack's best efforts.

Harry Girdwood saw it all, and his terror increased every moment.

Well it might.

The mad struggles of the stranger imperilled both.

"Dive, Jack, dive," cried Harry Girdwood, frantically; "dive with him,
or it is all up with both of you."

Jack heard him.

Twisting like an eel in the embrace of the boy he would save, he dived
down, dragging the stranger with him.

In the space of a few seconds he reappeared again upon the surface,
observing his former tactics.

Striking out with his right arm, while with his left hand he grasped
the stranger's long black hair.

"Catch hold of him," gasped young Jack; "never mind me."

Harry Girdwood leant over the boat's side and caught at the stranger by
the collar.

"There; hold on like that," said young Jack.

The weight coming all upon one side of the boat, however, threatened to
capsize it, and so they had to act with the greatest precaution.

Young Jack, however, struck out and swam round the boat, so that his
weight, clinging upon the further side of the boat, served to steady it
while Harry Girdwood completed the rescue of the stranger.

"Bravo!" cried young Jack.

"It was a tough job," said Harry.

"And a narrow squeak for all of us."

"Right; but let's look after this poor fellow. He's alive."

"Yes."

"I'm glad of that; it would have been precious hard after all the work,
not to mention the risk run, to have let him slip his cable in spite of
us."

"Well, it is not his fault that he's alive now."

"Alive." quoth young Jack, "by George! He looks more dead than alive as
it is."

"Don't fear for him, Jack; he's as good as twenty dead men so far, but
how are you getting on?"

"Hearty. Rather damp outside, nothing more."

"And inside?"

"Damp too. Why, I shipped a bellyful of salt water last drop down;
enough to salt a barrel of junk."

Harry turned his attention to the stranger.

"He keeps insensible a very long time," he said to young Jack; "it
begins to look serious."

"Move the scat," said young Jack, "and let us lay him flat down upon
his back at the bottom of the boat. I have always heard that that is
the proper thing to do."

No sooner said than done.

Presently they were rewarded for their pains by detecting a faint
breathing.

"How white his neck is," said Harry Girdwood.

"And how small and delicate his hands," said young Jack.

"One would almost take him for a woman."

"He'd pass very well for one if he wore petticoats."

"I'm almost inclined as it is to think that--"

"Ha! He's coming round."

The youth opened his eyes and stared about him.

He looked half scared at first one and then the other.

"You are better now," said young Jack, taking his hand.

He stared.

Jack had spoken in English in his anxiety.

He put the same sentiment into the best Greek he could muster.

"Yes, yes," replied the stranger, "better, better," and then he
appeared to grow more and more confused; "but what is this? Have I been
ill?"

"Yes."

"Ah!"

"Not very; it is all well now. Don't you remember--"

The rocking of the boat furnished the missing link in the chain of
memory, and the rescued boy showed, by a ray of intelligence in his
bright face, that it had all come back to him.

A smile of grateful acknowledgment of their services shot over his
countenance.

Then suddenly his expression changed.

"Where are we going?" he demanded, with the most extraordinary
eagerness.

"Ashore."

"Oh, no, no, no!" he exclaimed; "not ashore here."

"Why not?"

"You must not go ashore here," said the youth, eagerly, "not for
worlds."

"Why?"

Jack was questioning the stranger while Harry Girdwood shot the boat
into a favourable creek.

Harry jumped out.

"Come along," he said cheerfully.

"Safe on shore."

"And precious glad of it," added young Jack.

The stranger looked upon him in anxious expectation, and finding they
were alone, he turned eagerly to his young preservers.

"Put off again," he said; "put out to sea, I tell you."

"Why?"

"You have disarmed me; you have saved my life and shown me tenderness
and care--aye, brotherly love. Oh," he added earnestly, "pray go now;
at once, while you are free."

"Well," quoth young Jack, with a long whistle, "this is a rum go."

Before another word could be spoken, there was heard a whistle, which
sounded like the echo of young Jack's note; an answer came from another
direction, and half-a-dozen men sprang forward from no one could see
where, and pounced upon our two bold boys, Jack and Harry Girdwood.

"Bravo, Theodora!" cried a familiar voice in English, "you play the
part of decoy to perfection. We have got them at last."

Young Jack started.

He turned pale and haggard, looking in a moment to Harry.

"Do you know that voice?"

"I do," replied Harry Girdwood.

"We are sold, undone. It is the villain Hunston."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was but a little while after young Jack and Harry Girdwood had been
entrapped, when a strange scene took place.

Evening was coming on.

Brigand sentinels had been posted at each path by which their haunt
could be approached, and one was perched high above on a flat rock,
which overlooked everything, without having seen himself except by the
very sharpest of eyes.

Hunston, after visiting the outposts and seeing that everything was
safe for the night, climbed up to this spot, and seated himself on a
large stone.

He felt feverish, and at that elevation he might feel something of the
breeze, a thing unknown down below at the bivouac, which was closely
surrounded by thick bushes.

Strange dreads and doubts filled Hunston's mind, dread of the future,
dread of a lingering illness through his arm, which daily grew worse,
dread of death, which he felt convinced must be the end, and doubts
whether eventually his enemy Harkaway would not triumph.

For Hunston's hatred of Harkaway knew no abatement; living or dying,
the same fierce, unquenchable thirst after vengeance would fill his
soul.

But what troubled him most now was his health.

The shoulder to which the mechanical arm was attached was so painful,
it could scarcely bear the pressure of the clothing he wore; the blood
in his veins, after flowing through that part of the system, seemed to
return to his heart heated almost to boiling point, but that heat did
not stimulate him to exertion.

On the contrary, he felt languid and scarcely able to do the duties
that devolved upon him as Toro's lieutenant.

Nor was his brain so clear as in former days.

Ideas he had in plenty, but they seemed to jostle and confuse each
other in their endeavours to settle down into a connected train of
thought.

Emmerson's vengeance was working.

As he sat there, the sentinel remained motionless, leaning on his
carbine and peering over the edge of the precipice.

Presently Diana, the widow of Mathias, came up the rock, and Hunston
rose to greet her.

"Your husband is to a certain extent avenged," said he.

"How?"

"Harkaway's boy is in our power,"

"That is something, at all events. That girl Theodora, the niece of
Tomaso, has done her work well. Vengeance has commenced."

"Yes, but--"

"But what?"

"There is a hitch in the proceedings. The girl is softhearted, and
begged hard for their lives."

"She is a fool! By Heaven, I am half inclined to do the deed myself
with this dagger."

"In which case Toro would probably do for you."

"What, is he turned craven?"

"No; but he is sweet on Theodora, and for her sake is inclined to spare
them."

Hunston knew well enough that all this was false, as, unless certain
conditions were promptly complied with, Toro would certainly kill both
of them without the slightest hesitation or compunction.

But he did not tell Diana.

"But," he continued, "what is your idea of vengeance?"

"I would wring other hearts as mine has been wrung. I would cause
blinding tears to dim the brightness of other eyes besides mine. I
would cause the stern judge Death to pass a decree of divorce upon
others besides myself and Mathias. When Harkaway is a widower, or his
wife a widow, then I shall consider my vengeance partly accomplished."

"Humph! for a woman you are tolerably moderate. I shall not be
satisfied till the Harkaways and the Harveys are destroyed root and
branch-till the other accursed detective, Nabley, his American friend
Jefferson, the negroes, the wooden-legged ass Mole, till every one of
the party is swept away out of my path. Harkaway taught me to hate, and
I swear by all the eternal powers of earth, heaven, and hell, he shall
see how I have profited by the lesson."

Diana was silent for a few moments; then, with something like a sneer,
said--

"You are a brave man--in words, Signor Hunston."

"My acts speak for themselves."

"And little have they said for some time past. But listen; I have sworn
a deep and deadly revenge."

"Well."

"This evening I depart."

"Good."

"When I return again, you may expect to hear that Harkaway is dead or
his wife."

The excited woman glided away, and Hunston, after smoking a cigarette,
followed her.

"Good?" chuckled Hunston to himself, "I could not have a better ally
than that woman; for she can go where I dare not show myself, and will
find opportunities for carrying out her plans unsuspected. Beware,
Harkaway! for though I have waited years for revenge, it is now within
my grasp."




CHAPTER XX.

THE HARKAWAYS LEARN ALL--MR. MOLE EXPLAINS AND GETS INTO
TROUBLE IN CONSEQUENCE.


Words cannot describe the trouble of the Harkaway family at the loss of
young Jack and his stout-hearted comrade, Harry Girdwood.

At first their indignation had been so great, that their first impulse
was to use violent means to effect the recovery of the boys.

But the first person to oppose this was Jack Harkaway himself.

"If we were to attack them in force," he said, "it would be imprudent
upon every hand. In the first place they would have the advantage of
us, of course, in a mountain skirmish."

"I don't know that they would get the best of it," said Harvey.

"Nor I," said Jefferson.

"We can do nothing at present as far as I can see," said Harkaway.
"Only wait."

"To what end?"

"Their object must be plunder--money--ransom."

"Supposing that they demand a sum?"

"I shall pay it as soon as ever I can rake it up. If it is more than I
possess in the world," said Jack Harkaway, seriously, "then I shall
borrow of my friends to make it up."

The poor fellow turned away to hide his emotion.

"What guarantee have you that they would give up the boys for the
ransom?"

"None. But I should not send the money first. They would have to send
the boys here first."

"They might doubt you."

"Why, yes. But Hunston and Toro are with them, and they know that Jack
Harkaway's word is his bond, no matter with whom he is dealing, let
them be the veriest scum on the face of the earth."

"Which they are."

"Which they are, as you say."

"Very good," said Jefferson. "Now I don't want to play the part of the
wet blanket, and to dash your hopes to the ground before they are half
formed, but I wish to guard against running away upon a false track."

"In what way?"

"All your hopes of ransoming the boys rest now upon the fact of Hunston
and Toro being with the brigands."

"Yes."

"Well," added Jefferson, "how do you know that Hunston and Toro are
really in the band? You only suppose that."

"I can answer positively for that," said a voice at the door.

They turned.

There stood Nabley, the detective.

"Nabley!"

"Nabley here!"

"Himself," said the indefatigable officer, coming forward. "Hunston is
with the brigands, very much with them, in fact."

"That we know," said Harkaway, who then related the death of Pike, and
the supposed abduction of young Jack.

"I have been very ill," said Nabley. "I fainted in the street, and, in
falling, severely injured my head. But do you know how that Hunston
finds out all about you and your doings?"

"No."

"Well, it is through one of your own household."

"Explain," said Harkaway.

"What do you mean?" asked Harvey.

"I can't talk much; Mr. Mole will tell you perhaps better. Here, Mr.
Mole."

Mr. Mole stepped forward, looking just a little sheepish.

"Mr. Mole!"

"Mr. Mole!" exclaimed a dozen voices in chorus.

"Yes, my friends," said the old gentleman, stepping forward with his
well-known modesty, "it is even so; your much-wronged Mole."

"Tell us how it occurred," said Harkaway.

"I was down in the dancing garden, seated in a species of small summer
house, taking a glass of--I mean a cup of tea--ahem!--when I fell
asleep--I dozed, in fact."

"You would," said Harvey. "I've often noticed that you doze after a
glass of--I mean a cup of tea."

Mole glared at the speaker.

"The heat of the day quite overcame me."

"It would," said Dick, in the same compassionate manner.

"When I woke up, I heard two persons conversing close by the green
arbour where I sat."

"Yes."

"Two familiar voices."

"Ha!" exclaimed Harkaway, eagerly.

"Now guess," said Mole, "who the two familiar voices belonged to?"

"Can't."

"Out with it."

"One of the voices," said Mr. Mole, "was Hunston's, the other was--"

"Toro's?"

"No."

"No! Whose then?"

"Marietta's."

"Marietta--what, the maid here?"

"Yes."

"Impossible."

"Was it, egad? I thought so, but I am not easily mistaken."

"Unless you dreamt."

"Bah!" exclaimed Mr. Mole, with ineffable contempt; "fiddlesticks!"

"But did you suppose she was in league with Hunston?" demanded Emily
with great eagerness.

"No."

"What then?"

"He was bamboozling her, twisting her round his finger^ as one might
say. He had got up a casual chat, persuading her that he was a private
friend of yours, so he pumped and pumped her about the boys, where they
went, and so forth."

"And did she say any thing that could serve him in his vile purpose?"
asked Mrs. Harkaway.

"Plenty to help them, the miscreants, I suppose."

"The girl must be a downright idiot to get into conversation with a
strange man after all that has taken place, and after all the danger
which she knows they ran."

"Not far short of it," said Jefferson.

"He spoke particularly about the boys not venturing out to the
mountains, that they were permitted only to sail about in their boat,
and--"

Harkaway broke in here with an exclamation that startled them all.

"That explains all," he said. "All, all, I see it now."

"Do you? Explain."

"They have put out to sea and taken the boys, perhaps by stealth,
perhaps by violence."

"Likely enough."

"Poor boys, poor boys!"

"And where did all this take place?" demanded Jefferson; "in one of the
public promenades, did you say?"

"Mr. Jefferson," replied old Mole saucily, "you want your nose filed. I
said in the dancing garden."

"Oh, de dancing garden, was it, Massa Ikey?" said a voice in his ear,
which caused him to palpitate nervously.

It was Mrs. Mole.

When he had spoken of the dancing garden, he had not noticed his better
half's presence.

"Yes, my dear," he said timidly, trying to look dignified the while
before the company.

"And what was you--doing in such a place as a dancing garding, Mister
Mole, sar?" demanded his dusky rib, in a voice which sounded dangerous.

"I went, my dear, to study character," said Mr, Mole timidly....

"What?" thundered Mrs. Mole.

He trembled, and faltered something almost inaudibly.

"Studyin' character," said the lady with great contempt; "losing your
character, you silly old pump--"

"My dear," remonstrated the old gentleman.

"Don't 'my dear' me," said Mrs. Mole; "you're gwine off your silly old
cokernut, you bald-headed old coon."

"Mrs. Mole!"

"You go to dat dancin' garding for to see dem gals jump about and dance
and make fools ob demselves, ignorant critters."

"No such thing, I tell you," said Mole, indignantly.

"Oh, yes, it is," said his better half, "and you's a bushel more
indelicate dan dey is, you silly old possum."

This started the company off generally in a noisy fit of laughter,
before which poor Mole was forced to beat a retreat, followed by his
irate partner.

"Poor Mole," said Jefferson, laughing heartily, "it is an unlucky
admission for him. Chloe will give it to him sorely for this, I'm
afraid."

       *       *       *       *       *

They went deeply into the question of ransoming the boys, for they were
convinced that they had really fallen into the hands of the brigands.

But do what they would, say what they would, they could only come back
to one result.

They must wait.

Patience was difficult under the circumstances, but there was no help
for it.

"Wait till to-morrow," said Jefferson; "it is a hard job, I know, but I
feel certain that if the boys are with the brigands, to-morrow morning
will bring a message from them."

"But can nothing be done meanwhile?" said Emily.

"No."

"Nothing."

"Stay; you may get some papers printed and circulated everywhere,
offering a heavy reward for the recovery of the boys."

"To what end?"

"It can do no harm, and may do good. At any rate, it will show the
brigands that we are ready to pay the piper for our boys' sake."

"That's true," said Jefferson.

"Let's do it," said Harkaway, who was pacing up and down impatiently;
"at any rate, any thing is better than remaining inactive."




CHAPTER XXI.

A HOUSE OF MOURNING--THE LETTER FROM THE ENEMY--A STRANGE
CORRESPONDENCE--THE INCIDENT AT THE OPEN WINDOW--HUNSTON'S REVENGE--
DESPAIR.


It was as Jefferson had predicted.

The notices were printed and circulated everywhere by well-chosen and
energetic agents.

Early next morning, a letter was found fastened to the garden gate.

It was brought to Harkaway, who was already up and busy.

He tore it eagerly open, and found the following written in a disguised
handwriting and in English--

"TO Mr. JOHN HARKAWAY:

"If you would save the lives of your son and your _protégé_, his
companion, the only way to do it is to bring the sum of five hundred
pounds sterling to the stone cross by the old well at two o'clock this
afternoon. Those who have the two boys in their keeping will be on the
watch. Come along, as you value your happiness and their safety."

"Not very likely," said Jack Harkaway.

Instead of complying with this very shallow request, he wrote an answer
in these terms:

"TO HUNSTON AND HIS FELLOW-VILLAINS:

"Send the lads back here. Within half-an-hour of their return, the
money shall be sent to where you will and when you will. This I
promise, and swear upon my honour. None knows better than yourself that
this may be implicitly relied upon.

                                      "HARKAWAY."

This letter he sent by a trusty messenger to the spot appointed for the
meeting place, and they waited impatiently for the further result.

It was not long coming.

Before two o'clock, Marietta discovered another letter tied to the
garden gate, but how it came there they were unable to decide.

Be that as it may, it was soon discovered to be of the highest
importance to them in the present state of affairs.

It was brief and startling, and ran as follows--

"We do not bandy words with you. We offer our conditions. You refuse.
Well and good. The consequences be upon your own head. If the money be
not paid by four to-day, at six the boys will lose an ear each,"

"The villains!" cried poor Harkaway. "Oh, villains!"

But he was powerless to help them.

He knew well enough that, do what he would, he could not hope to get
the boys back without paying, and paying through the nose too.

Nor indeed did he desire to try to achieve this.

The only question was, would they deliver up their prisoners, once they
had received the five hundred pounds?

Perhaps.

Perhaps not.

If not, they would be in as much peril as they were already.

Nay, more.

He guessed shrewdly enough that once they had received such a handsome
sum as five hundred pounds, they would think that they had drained him
dry, or as nearly so as it was possible to arrive at, and so might make
short work of young Jack and Harry Girdwood.

What was to be done?

He could not say.

He would gladly have risked all that he possessed in the world for the
chance of having his boys back.

Aye, his boys, for Harry Girdwood was second only in Harkaway's
affection to young Jack.

But he did not wish to reward the miscreants for ill-treating the
unfortunate lads.

At length he came to the conclusion that he would persist in his
resolve to have the boys back before he parted with any money at all.

Accordingly he wrote another note to the brigands.

This he dispatched by the same means as the former note.

"Release the two lads. Restore them to us, and the ransom of a king
shall be yours. Fix upon any sum, however great, provided that it be
within my means to pay it, and you shall not ask twice. Moreover, I
shall do nothing more to molest you or interfere with you in any way.
Play false, or harm a hair of my boys' heads, and beware. You may know
that Jack Harkaway is not the man to make an enemy of."

The answer to this was not long in coming.

An ugly scrawl upon a dirty piece of paper, and with it was a small
parcel.

"We despise your threats, and laugh you to scorn. That you may know how
little we are to be trifled with, we send you their ears in proof that
we have kept our word. By this hour to-morrow the two boys die, unless
you pay down the sum as fixed upon by us, both in manner and in
amount."

Jack Harkaway turned faint and sick.

He dared nor open the parcel which accompanied the letter.

He sent for Jefferson and Harvey, and unable to trust himself to speak,
he placed the letter in the latter's hands.

"Read, read," he said, with a horror-stricken look.

Harvey glanced down the letter, and his countenance fell as he passed
it on to Jefferson.

"What is to be done?"

"I don't know," replied Jefferson; "I am at a loss. This is too
horrible."

"What do you say, Dick?"

Harvey hung his head.

"Speak, Dick. Tell me, old, friend, what I ought to do," said Harkaway,
imploringly. "I am bewildered--dazed--at my wits' end. What ought I to
do?"

"Pay the money."

Accordingly the money, all in gold, was placed in a bag in the spot
which they had indicated in the first note addressed by the brigands to
Jack Harkaway.

This done, they awaited the result.

It soon came.

Too soon for the latter's peace of mind.

As the family and their friends were seated in moody silence and in
sorrow around the dinner-table, so strong was the sense of oppression
upon everyone that they only conversed in whispers.

"The heat is really overpowering," said Mrs. Harkaway.

"Shall I open the window?"

"If you please."

He hastened to comply with her request, when at that very instant
something shot past him into the room.

It fell with a clatter upon the table, and cannoned off a dish on to
Jack Harkaway, striking him a rather sharp blow in the chest.

"What's that?"

"Hullo!"

"A stone."

"Yes, a stone with a paper wrapped round it."

"So it is."

"A letter, I should think," suggested Dick.

"If so," said Harkaway, smiling sadly, "it is evidently meant for me."

"You have a striking proof of that," said Dick.

Harkaway undid the paper and scanned it through.

His countenance fell as he read on.

His pale face grew pallid, and rising from his seat, he ran, or rather
staggered, to the window.

"Gone!"

"What is the matter?" demanded Dick, jumping up.

"See after the man who threw this letter in," exclaimed Harkaway. "Come
with me--come, come immediately!"

And with this somewhat wild exhortation, he tottered out of the room,
followed by Dick.

Everybody arose from the table in confusion.

Dismay, alarm, was depicted in every face.

"What can it be?" ejaculated Mrs. Harkaway. "Oh, Mr. Jefferson, go and
see, and bring me the news."

"I will. Calm yourself, my dear Mrs. Harkaway; it is very likely to be
good news which thus agitates poor Jack."

Away he went.

"I fear it is the reverse," said Emily, shaking her head.

Jefferson overtook Harkaway and Dick Harvey in the gardens, where an
active search was going forward after the man, or individual of either
sex, who could have thrown the stone with its strange letter.

"Let me see the letter, Jack."

The latter placed it in his hand, and then, to Jefferson's horror and
dismay, he found it contained the following words--

"TO HATED HARKAWAY.

"I have had years and years of patience, and my turn has come at last.
As your eyes glance at these lines, your boy is vainly supplicating for
mercy. Before you reach the signature at foot, your accursed brat will
be dead--mark that--dead! No power on earth can save him. Had you sent
the money demanded as his ransom more promptly, you could have saved
him. May the knowledge of this wring your heart as you have wrung mine
in bygone years.

                                   "HUNSTON."




CHAPTER XXII.

A HOUSE OF MOURNING--HARVEY'S RESOLVE--A TIME OF
TROUBLE.


"Horrible!" cried Jefferson; "horrible!"

Dismay and terror were on every face.

The dreadful news paralysed their movements, and rendered them
momentarily helpless.

Dick Harvey was the first to break the silence.

He sprang to his feet, and made for the grounds, motioning the others
to follow him.

"Let us try and catch the postman," he exclaimed; "if we get hold of
him, we may learn something worth knowing."

"Bravo!" responded Jefferson; "a capital idea."

They were flying all over the grounds immediately.

But the result may be guessed in advance.

Not a sign was there of the bearer of this alarming letter.

They gave up the search only when there was not the faintest vestige of
a hope left, and crestfallen and disappointed, they returned to the
house.

"Come," said Dick to the bold American; "we must move; we must be
stirring."

"What for?"

"For several reasons," replied Dick, "but firstly for the purpose of
giving Jack something to do. It will never do to let a man in his
condition brood."

They sought poor Harkaway again, and led him off to hold a
consultation.

"Jack," said Harvey, brusquely, "you must not give way to despondency.
I say positively, must not. You will certainly undermine your health."

"Do not fear for me, Dick," returned Harkaway, "I shall be better for a
little quiet."

"Indeed you'll not. Besides, it is not just to the boys."

Harkaway's lips quivered, and a big lump rose in his throat.

He swallowed it with considerable difficulty, and silently wrung Dick's
hand.

"Don't, don't, old friend," he faltered, in a broken-hearted voice. "I
can't bear the mention of their names. Poor boys! poor boys!"

"But you must," insisted Harvey. "I don't mean to leave them in the
lurch."

"What do you mean?"

"What I say. We must not give up the search."

"Ah, Dick, you would persuade me, if you can't persuade yourself."

"You are wrong," replied Harvey. "I have the deepest conviction on the
point."

"To what effect?"

"That they live--both live."

Jack Harkaway looked positively frightened at this reply.

"Dick, Dick," he exclaimed, mournfully, "what are you saying, old
friend?"

"What I mean. They yet live," returned Harvey boldly.

"No, no."

"But I say, yes, yes."

"I should rather say that they were murdered long before we received
their last message."

"Come, come, Jack," he said; "rouse yourself, man. Whatever can make
you believe this to be true?"

"The letter."

Dick laughed at this.

"That is the very first thing to raise my doubts," replied Dick. "Why,
we have known Hunston all his life, and never found him any thing but
the most notorious liar."

"True; but--"

"He told lies as a boy--lies as a youth--lies as a man. His life has
been one long lie, and yet you choose to make yourself wretched and all
of us too upon the strength of such a vagabond's word. Bah!"

Harkaway hung his head and sighed.

"That is not all, Dick," he said; "I have the direst presentiment upon
me--"

"Presentiment!" ejaculated Dick, interrupting him.

"Well, Jack, I will not quarrel with you about presentiments, since I
am urged on to what I am about to say and do by presentiments--only my
presentiments are of the most hopeful description."

"D