Delium, being everywhere
detained by disturbances at home.  Should the enterprise succeed, and
Delium be fortified, its authors confidently expected that even if no
revolution should immediately follow in Boeotia, yet with these
places in their hands, and the country being harassed by incursions,
and a refuge in each instance near for the partisans engaged in them,
things would not remain as they were, but that the rebels being
supported by the Athenians and the forces of the oligarchs divided,
it would be possible after a while to settle matters according to
their wishes.

Such was the plot in contemplation.  Hippocrates with a force
raised at home awaited the proper moment to take the field against the
Boeotians; while he sent on Demosthenes with the forty ships above
mentioned to Naupactus, to raise in those parts an army of Acarnanians
and of the other allies, and sail and receive Siphae from the
conspirators; a day having been agreed on for the simultaneous
execution of both these operations.  Demosthenes on his arrival found
Oeniadae already compelled by the united Acarnanians to join the
Athenian confederacy, and himself raising all the allies in those
countries marched against and subdued Salynthius and the Agraeans;
after which he devoted himself to the preparations necessary to enable
him to be at Siphae by the time appointed.

About the same time in the summer, Brasidas set out on his march for
the Thracian places with seventeen hundred heavy infantry, and
arriving at Heraclea in Trachis, from thence sent on a messenger to
his friends at Pharsalus, to ask them to conduct himself and his
army through the country.  Accordingly there came to Melitia in
Achaia Panaerus, Dorus, Hippolochidas, Torylaus, and Strophacus, the
Chalcidian proxenus, under whose escort he resumed his march, being
accompanied also by other Thessalians, among whom was Niconidas from
Larissa, a friend of Perdiccas.  It was never very easy to traverse
Thessaly without an escort; and throughout all Hellas for an armed
force to pass without leave through a neighbour's country was a
delicate step to take.  Besides this the Thessalian people had always
sympathized with the Athenians.  Indeed if instead of the customary
close oligarchy there had been a constitutional government in
Thessaly, he would never have been able to proceed; since even as it
was, he was met on his march at the river Enipeus by certain of the
opposite party who forbade his further progress, and complained of his
making the attempt without the consent of the nation.  To this his
escort answered that they had no intention of taking him through
against their will; they were only friends in attendance on an
unexpected visitor.  Brasidas himself added that he came as a friend to
Thessaly and its inhabitants, his arms not being directed against them
but against the Athenians, with whom he was at war, and that although
he knew of no quarrel between the Thessalians and Lacedaemonians to
prevent the two nations having access to each other's territory, he
neither would nor could proceed against their wishes; he could only
beg them not to stop him.  With this answer they went away, and he took
the advice of his escort, and pushed on without halting, before a
greater force might gather to prevent him.  Thus in the day that he set
out from Melitia he performed the whole distance to Pharsalus, and
encamped on the river Apidanus; and so to Phacium and from thence to
Perrhaebia.  Here his Thessalian escort went back, and the
Perrhaebians, who are subjects of Thessaly, set him down at Dium in
the dominions of Perdiccas, a Macedonian town under Mount Olympus,
looking towards Thessaly.

In this way Brasidas hurried through Thessaly before any one could
be got ready to stop him, and reached Perdiccas and Chalcidice.  The
departure of the army from Peloponnese had been procured by the
Thracian towns in revolt against Athens and by Perdiccas, alarmed at
the successes of the Athenians.  The Chalcidians thought that they
would be the first objects of an Athenian expedition, not that the
neighbouring towns which had not yet revolted did not also secretly
join in the invitation; and Perdiccas also had his apprehensions on
account of his old quarrels with the Athenians, although not openly at
war with them, and above all wished to reduce Arrhabaeus, king of
the Lyncestians.  It had been less difficult for them to get an army to
leave Peloponnese, because of the ill fortune of the Lacedaemonians at
the present moment.  The attacks of the Athenians upon Peloponnese, and
in particular upon Laconia, might, it was hoped, be diverted most
effectually by annoying them in return, and by sending an army to
their allies, especially as they were willing to maintain it and asked
for it to aid them in revolting.  The Lacedaemonians were also glad
to have an excuse for sending some of the Helots out of the country,
for fear that the present aspect of affairs and the occupation of
Pylos might encourage them to move.  Indeed fear of their numbers and
obstinacy even persuaded the Lacedaemonians to the action which I
shall now relate, their policy at all times having been governed by
the necessity of taking precautions against them.  The Helots were
invited by a proclamation to pick out those of their number who
claimed to have most distinguished themselves against the enemy, in
order that they might receive their freedom; the object being to
test them, as it was thought that the first to claim their freedom
would be the most high-spirited and the most apt to rebel.  As many
as two thousand were selected accordingly, who crowned themselves
and went round the temples, rejoicing in their new freedom.  The
Spartans, however, soon afterwards did away with them, and no one ever
knew how each of them perished.  The Spartans now therefore gladly sent
seven hundred as heavy infantry with Brasidas, who recruited the
rest of his force by means of money in Peloponnese.

Brasidas himself was sent out by the Lacedaemonians mainly at his
own desire, although the Chalcidians also were eager to have a man
so thorough as he had shown himself whenever there was anything to
be done at Sparta, and whose after-service abroad proved of the utmost
use to his country.  At the present moment his just and moderate
conduct towards the towns generally succeeded in procuring their
revolt, besides the places which he managed to take by treachery;
and thus when the Lacedaemonians desired to treat, as they
ultimately did, they had places to offer in exchange, and the burden
of war meanwhile shifted from Peloponnese.  Later on in the war,
after the events in Sicily, the present valour and conduct of
Brasidas, known by experience to some, by hearsay to others, was
what mainly created in the allies of Athens a feeling for the
Lacedaemonians.  He was the first who went out and showed himself so
good a man at all points as to leave behind him the conviction that
the rest were like him.

Meanwhile his arrival in the Thracian country no sooner became known
to the Athenians than they declared war against Perdiccas, whom they
regarded as the author of the expedition, and kept a closer watch on
their allies in that quarter.

Upon the arrival of Brasidas and his army, Perdiccas immediately
started with them and with his own forces against Arrhabaeus, son of
Bromerus, king of the Lyncestian Macedonians, his neighbour, with whom
he had a quarrel and whom he wished to subdue.  However, when he
arrived with his army and Brasidas at the pass leading into Lyncus,
Brasidas told him that before commencing hostilities he wished to go
and try to persuade Arrhabaeus to become the ally of Lacedaemon,
this latter having already made overtures intimating his willingness
to make Brasidas arbitrator between them, and the Chalcidian envoys
accompanying him having warned him not to remove the apprehensions
of Perdiccas, in order to ensure his greater zeal in their cause.
Besides, the envoys of Perdiccas had talked at Lacedaemon about his
bringing many of the places round him into alliance with them; and
thus Brasidas thought he might take a larger view of the question of
Arrhabaeus.  Perdiccas however retorted that he had not brought him
with him to arbitrate in their quarrel, but to put down the enemies
whom he might point out to him; and that while he, Perdiccas,
maintained half his army it was a breach of faith for Brasidas to
parley with Arrhabaeus.  Nevertheless Brasidas disregarded the wishes
of Perdiccas and held the parley in spite of him, and suffered himself
to be persuaded to lead off the army without invading the country of
Arrhabaeus; after which Perdiccas, holding that faith had not been
kept with him, contributed only a third instead of half of the support
of the army.

The same summer, without loss of time, Brasidas marched with the
Chalcidians against Acanthus, a colony of the Andrians, a little
before vintage.  The inhabitants were divided into two parties on the
question of receiving him; those who had joined the Chalcidians in
inviting him, and the popular party.  However, fear for their fruit,
which was still out, enabled Brasidas to persuade the multitude to
admit him alone, and to hear what he had to say before making a
decision; and he was admitted accordingly and appeared before the
people, and not being a bad speaker for a Lacedaemonian, addressed
them as follows:

"Acanthians, the Lacedaemonians have sent out me and my army to make
good the reason that we gave for the war when we began it, viz.,
that we were going to war with the Athenians in order to free
Hellas.  Our delay in coming has been caused by mistaken expectations
as to the war at home, which led us to hope, by our own unassisted
efforts and without your risking anything, to effect the speedy
downfall of the Athenians; and you must not blame us for this, as we
are now come the moment that we were able, prepared with your aid to
do our best to subdue them.  Meanwhile I am astonished at finding
your gates shut against me, and at not meeting with a better
welcome.  We Lacedaemonians thought of you as allies eager to have
us, to whom we should come in spirit even before we were with you in
body; and in this expectation undertook all the risks of a march of
many days through a strange country, so far did our zeal carry us.
It will be a terrible thing if after this you have other intentions,
and mean to stand in the way of your own and Hellenic freedom.  It is
not merely that you oppose me yourselves; but wherever I may go people
will be less inclined to join me, on the score that you, to whom I
first came--an important town like Acanthus, and prudent men like the
Acanthians--refused to admit me.  I shall have nothing to prove that
the reason which I advance is the true one; it will be said either
that there is something unfair in the freedom which I offer, or that
I am in insufficient force and unable to protect you against an
attack from Athens.  Yet when I went with the army which I now have to
the relief of Nisaea, the Athenians did not venture to engage me
although in greater force than I; and it is not likely they will
ever send across sea against you an army as numerous as they had at
Nisaea.  And for myself, I have come here not to hurt but to free the
Hellenes, witness the solemn oaths by which I have bound my government
that the allies that I may bring over shall be independent; and
besides my object in coming is not by force or fraud to obtain your
alliance, but to offer you mine to help you against your Athenian
masters.  I protest, therefore, against any suspicions of my intentions
after the guarantees which I offer, and equally so against doubts of
my ability to protect you, and I invite you to join me without
hesitation.

"Some of you may hang back because they have private enemies, and
fear that I may put the city into the hands of a party: none need be
more tranquil than they.  I am not come here to help this party or
that; and I do not consider that I should be bringing you freedom in
any real sense, if I should disregard your constitution, and enslave
the many to the few or the few to the many.  This would be heavier than
a foreign yoke; and we Lacedaemonians, instead of being thanked for
our pains, should get neither honour nor glory, but, contrariwise,
reproaches.  The charges which strengthen our hands in the war
against the Athenians would on our own showing be merited by
ourselves, and more hateful in us than in those who make no
pretensions to honesty; as it is more disgraceful for persons of
character to take what they covet by fair-seeming fraud than by open
force; the one aggression having for its justification the might which
fortune gives, the other being simply a piece of clever roguery.  A
matter which concerns us thus nearly we naturally look to most
jealously; and over and above the oaths that I have mentioned, what
stronger assurance can you have, when you see that our words, compared
with the actual facts, produce the necessary conviction that it is our
interest to act as we say?

"If to these considerations of mine you put in the plea of
inability, and claim that your friendly feeling should save you from
being hurt by your refusal; if you say that freedom, in your
opinion, is not without its dangers, and that it is right to offer
it to those who can accept it, but not to force it on any against
their will, then I shall take the gods and heroes of your country to
witness that I came for your good and was rejected, and shall do my
best to compel you by laying waste your land.  I shall do so without
scruple, being justified by the necessity which constrains me,
first, to prevent the Lacedaemonians from being damaged by you,
their friends, in the event of your nonadhesion, through the moneys
that you pay to the Athenians; and secondly, to prevent the Hellenes
from being hindered by you in shaking off their servitude.  Otherwise
indeed we should have no right to act as we propose; except in the
name of some public interest, what call should we Lacedaemonians
have to free those who do not wish it? Empire we do not aspire to:
it is what we are labouring to put down; and we should wrong the
greater number if we allowed you to stand in the way of the
independence that we offer to all.  Endeavour, therefore, to decide
wisely, and strive to begin the work of liberation for the Hellenes,
and lay up for yourselves endless renown, while you escape private
loss, and cover your commonwealth with glory."

Such were the words of Brasidas.  The Acanthians, after much had been
said on both sides of the question, gave their votes in secret, and
the majority, influenced by the seductive arguments of Brasidas and by
fear for their fruit, decided to revolt from Athens; not however
admitting the army until they had taken his personal security for
the oaths sworn by his government before they sent him out, assuring
the independence of the allies whom he might bring over.  Not long
after, Stagirus, a colony of the Andrians, followed their example
and revolted.

Such were the events of this summer.  It was in the first days of the
winter following that the places in Boeotia were to be put into the
hands of the Athenian generals, Hippocrates and Demosthenes, the
latter of whom was to go with his ships to Siphae, the former to
Delium.  A mistake, however, was made in the days on which they were
each to start; and Demosthenes, sailing first to Siphae, with the
Acarnanians and many of the allies from those parts on board, failed
to effect anything, through the plot having been betrayed by
Nicomachus, a Phocian from Phanotis, who told the Lacedaemonians,
and they the Boeotians.  Succours accordingly flocked in from all parts
of Boeotia, Hippocrates not being yet there to make his diversion, and
Siphae and Chaeronea were promptly secured, and the conspirators,
informed of the mistake, did not venture on any movement in the towns.

Meanwhile Hippocrates made a levy in mass of the citizens,
resident aliens, and foreigners in Athens, and arrived at his
destination after the Boeotians had already come back from Siphae, and
encamping his army began to fortify Delium, the sanctuary of Apollo,
in the following manner.  A trench was dug all round the temple and the
consecrated ground, and the earth thrown up from the excavation was
made to do duty as a wall, in which stakes were also planted, the
vines round the sanctuary being cut down and thrown in, together
with stones and bricks pulled down from the houses near; every
means, in short, being used to run up the rampart.  Wooden towers
were also erected where they were wanted, and where there was no
part of the temple buildings left standing, as on the side where the
gallery once existing had fallen in.  The work was begun on the third
day after leaving home, and continued during the fourth, and till
dinnertime on the fifth, when most of it being now finished the army
removed from Delium about a mile and a quarter on its way home.  From
this point most of the light troops went straight on, while the
heavy infantry halted and remained where they were; Hippocrates having
stayed behind at Delium to arrange the posts, and to give directions
for the completion of such part of the outworks as had been left
unfinished.

During the days thus employed the Boeotians were mustering at
Tanagra, and by the time that they had come in from all the towns,
found the Athenians already on their way home.  The rest of the
eleven Boeotarchs were against giving battle, as the enemy was no
longer in Boeotia, the Athenians being just over the Oropian border,
when they halted; but Pagondas, son of Aeolidas, one of the Boeotarchs
of Thebes (Arianthides, son of Lysimachidas, being the other), and
then commander-in-chief, thought it best to hazard a battle.  He
accordingly called the men to him, company after company, to prevent
their all leaving their arms at once, and urged them to attack the
Athenians, and stand the issue of a battle, speaking as follows:

"Boeotians, the idea that we ought not to give battle to the
Athenians, unless we came up with them in Boeotia, is one which should
never have entered into the head of any of us, your generals.  It was
to annoy Boeotia that they crossed the frontier and built a fort in
our country; and they are therefore, I imagine, our enemies wherever
we may come up with them, and from wheresoever they may have come to
act as enemies do.  And if any one has taken up with the idea in
question for reasons of safety, it is high time for him to change
his mind.  The party attacked, whose own country is in danger, can
scarcely discuss what is prudent with the calmness of men who are in
full enjoyment of what they have got, and are thinking of attacking
a neighbour in order to get more.  It is your national habit, in your
country or out of it, to oppose the same resistance to a foreign
invader; and when that invader is Athenian, and lives upon your
frontier besides, it is doubly imperative to do so.  As between
neighbours generally, freedom means simply a determination to hold
one's own; and with neighbours like these, who are trying to enslave
near and far alike, there is nothing for it but to fight it out to the
last.  Look at the condition of the Euboeans and of most of the rest of
Hellas, and be convinced that others have to fight with their
neighbours for this frontier or that, but that for us conquest means
one frontier for the whole country, about which no dispute can be
made, for they will simply come and take by force what we have.  So
much more have we to fear from this neighbour than from another.
Besides, people who, like the Athenians in the present instance, are
tempted by pride of strength to attack their neighbours, usually march
most confidently against those who keep still, and only defend
themselves in their own country, but think twice before they grapple
with those who meet them outside their frontier and strike the first
blow if opportunity offers.  The Athenians have shown us this
themselves; the defeat which we inflicted upon them at Coronea, at the
time when our quarrels had allowed them to occupy the country, has
given great security to Boeotia until the present day.  Remembering
this, the old must equal their ancient exploits, and the young, the
sons of the heroes of that time, must endeavour not to disgrace
their native valour; and trusting in the help of the god whose
temple has been sacrilegiously fortified, and in the victims which
in our sacrifices have proved propitious, we must march against the
enemy, and teach him that he must go and get what he wants by
attacking someone who will not resist him, but that men whose glory it
is to be always ready to give battle for the liberty of their own
country, and never unjustly to enslave that of others, will not let
him go without a struggle."

By these arguments Pagondas persuaded the Boeotians to attack the
Athenians, and quickly breaking up his camp led his army forward, it
being now late in the day.  On nearing the enemy, he halted in a
position where a hill intervening prevented the two armies from seeing
each other, and then formed and prepared for action.  Meanwhile
Hippocrates at Delium, informed of the approach of the Boeotians, sent
orders to his troops to throw themselves into line, and himself joined
them not long afterwards, leaving about three hundred horse behind him
at Delium, at once to guard the place in case of attack, and to
watch their opportunity and fall upon the Boeotians during the battle.
The Boeotians placed a detachment to deal with these, and when
everything was arranged to their satisfaction appeared over the
hill, and halted in the order which they had determined on, to the
number of seven thousand heavy infantry, more than ten thousand
light troops, one thousand horse, and five hundred targeteers.  On
their right were the Thebans and those of their province, in the
centre the Haliartians, Coronaeans, Copaeans, and the other people
around the lake, and on the left the Thespians, Tanagraeans, and
Orchomenians, the cavalry and the light troops being at the
extremity of each wing.  The Thebans formed twenty-five shields deep,
the rest as they pleased.  Such was the strength and disposition of the
Boeotian army.

On the side of the Athenians, the heavy infantry throughout the
whole army formed eight deep, being in numbers equal to the enemy,
with the cavalry upon the two wings.  Light troops regularly armed
there were none in the army, nor had there ever been any at Athens.
Those who had joined in the invasion, though many times more
numerous than those of the enemy, had mostly followed unarmed, as part
of the levy in mass of the citizens and foreigners at Athens, and
having started first on their way home were not present in any number.
The armies being now in line and upon the point of engaging,
Hippocrates, the general, passed along the Athenian ranks, and
encouraged them as follows:

"Athenians, I shall only say a few words to you, but brave men
require no more, and they are addressed more to your understanding
than to your courage.  None of you must fancy that we are going out
of our way to run this risk in the country of another.  Fought in their
territory the battle will be for ours: if we conquer, the
Peloponnesians will never invade your country without the Boeotian
horse, and in one battle you will win Boeotia and in a manner free
Attica.  Advance to meet them then like citizens of a country in
which you all glory as the first in Hellas, and like sons of the
fathers who beat them at Oenophyta with Myronides and thus gained
possession of Boeotia."

Hippocrates had got half through the army with his exhortation, when
the Boeotians, after a few more hasty words from Pagondas, struck up
the paean, and came against them from the hill; the Athenians
advancing to meet them, and closing at a run.  The extreme wing of
neither army came into action, one like the other being stopped by the
water-courses in the way; the rest engaged with the utmost
obstinacy, shield against shield.  The Boeotian left, as far as the
centre, was worsted by the Athenians.  The Thespians in that part of
the field suffered most severely.  The troops alongside them having
given way, they were surrounded in a narrow space and cut down
fighting hand to hand; some of the Athenians also fell into
confusion in surrounding the enemy and mistook and so killed each
other.  In this part of the field the Boeotians were beaten, and
retreated upon the troops still fighting; but the right, where the
Thebans were, got the better of the Athenians and shoved them
further and further back, though gradually at first.  It so happened
also that Pagondas, seeing the distress of his left, had sent two
squadrons of horse, where they could not be seen, round the hill,
and their sudden appearance struck a panic into the victorious wing of
the Athenians, who thought that it was another army coming against
them.  At length in both parts of the field, disturbed by this panic,
and with their line broken by the advancing Thebans, the whole
Athenian army took to flight.  Some made for Delium and the sea, some
for Oropus, others for Mount Parnes, or wherever they had hopes of
safety, pursued and cut down by the Boeotians, and in particular by
the cavalry, composed partly of Boeotians and partly of Locrians,
who had come up just as the rout began.  Night however coming on to
interrupt the pursuit, the mass of the fugitives escaped more easily
than they would otherwise have done.  The next day the troops at Oropus
and Delium returned home by sea, after leaving a garrison in the
latter place, which they continued to hold notwithstanding the defeat.

The Boeotians set up a trophy, took up their own dead, and
stripped those of the enemy, and leaving a guard over them retired
to Tanagra, there to take measures for attacking Delium.  Meanwhile a
herald came from the Athenians to ask for the dead, but was met and
turned back by a Boeotian herald, who told him that he would effect
nothing until the return of himself the Boeotian herald, and who
then went on to the Athenians, and told them on the part of the
Boeotians that they had done wrong in transgressing the law of the
Hellenes.  Of what use was the universal custom protecting the
temples in an invaded country, if the Athenians were to fortify Delium
and live there, acting exactly as if they were on unconsecrated
ground, and drawing and using for their purposes the water which they,
the Boeotians, never touched except for sacred uses? Accordingly for
the god as well as for themselves, in the name of the deities
concerned, and of Apollo, the Boeotians invited them first to evacuate
the temple, if they wished to take up the dead that belonged to them.

After these words from the herald, the Athenians sent their own
herald to the Boeotians to say that they had not done any wrong to the
temple, and for the future would do it no more harm than they could
help; not having occupied it originally in any such design, but to
defend themselves from it against those who were really wronging them.
The law of the Hellenes was that conquest of a country, whether more
or less extensive, carried with it possession of the temples in that
country, with the obligation to keep up the usual ceremonies, at least
as far as possible.  The Boeotians and most other people who had turned
out the owners of a country, and put themselves in their places by
force, now held as of right the temples which they originally
entered as usurpers.  If the Athenians could have conquered more of
Boeotia this would have been the case with them: as things stood,
the piece of it which they had got they should treat as their own, and
not quit unless obliged.  The water they had disturbed under the
impulsion of a necessity which they had not wantonly incurred,
having been forced to use it in defending themselves against the
Boeotians who first invaded Attica.  Besides, anything done under the
pressure of war and danger might reasonably claim indulgence even in
the eye of the god; or why, pray, were the altars the asylum for
involuntary offences? Transgression also was a term applied to
presumptuous offenders, not to the victims of adverse circumstances.
In short, which were most impious--the Boeotians who wished to barter
dead bodies for holy places, or the Athenians who refused to give up
holy places to obtain what was theirs by right? The condition of
evacuating Boeotia must therefore be withdrawn.  They were no longer in
Boeotia.  They stood where they stood by the right of the sword.  All
that the Boeotians had to do was to tell them to take up their dead
under a truce according to the national custom.

The Boeotians replied that if they were in Boeotia, they must
evacuate that country before taking up their dead; if they were in
their own territory, they could do as they pleased: for they knew
that, although the Oropid where the bodies as it chanced were lying
(the battle having been fought on the borders) was subject to
Athens, yet the Athenians could not get them without their leave.
Besides, why should they grant a truce for Athenian ground? And what
could be fairer than to tell them to evacuate Boeotia if they wished
to get what they asked? The Athenian herald accordingly returned
with this answer, without having accomplished his object.

Meanwhile the Boeotians at once sent for darters and slingers from
the Malian Gulf, and with two thousand Corinthian heavy infantry who
had joined them after the battle, the Peloponnesian garrison which had
evacuated Nisaea, and some Megarians with them, marched against
Delium, and attacked the fort, and after divers efforts finally
succeeded in taking it by an engine of the following description.  They
sawed in two and scooped out a great beam from end to end, and fitting
it nicely together again like a pipe, hung by chains a cauldron at one
extremity, with which communicated an iron tube projecting from the
beam, which was itself in great part plated with iron.  This they
brought up from a distance upon carts to the part of the wall
principally composed of vines and timber, and when it was near,
inserted huge bellows into their end of the beam and blew with them.
The blast passing closely confined into the cauldron, which was filled
with lighted coals, sulphur and pitch, made a great blaze, and set
fire to the wall, which soon became untenable for its defenders, who
left it and fled; and in this way the fort was taken.  Of the
garrison some were killed and two hundred made prisoners; most of
the rest got on board their ships and returned home.

Soon after the fall of Delium, which took place seventeen days after
the battle, the Athenian herald, without knowing what had happened,
came again for the dead, which were now restored by the Boeotians, who
no longer answered as at first.  Not quite five hundred Boeotians
fell in the battle, and nearly one thousand Athenians, including
Hippocrates the general, besides a great number of light troops and
camp followers.

Soon after this battle Demosthenes, after the failure of his
voyage to Siphae and of the plot on the town, availed himself of the
Acarnanian and Agraean troops and of the four hundred Athenian heavy
infantry which he had on board, to make a descent on the Sicyonian
coast.  Before however all his ships had come to shore, the
Sicyonians came up and routed and chased to their ships those that had
landed, killing some and taking others prisoners; after which they set
up a trophy, and gave back the dead under truce.

About the same time with the affair of Delium took place the death
of Sitalces, king of the Odrysians, who was defeated in battle, in a
campaign against the Triballi; Seuthes, son of Sparadocus, his nephew,
succeeding to the kingdom of the Odrysians, and of the rest of
Thrace ruled by Sitalces.

The same winter Brasidas, with his allies in the Thracian places,
marched against Amphipolis, the Athenian colony on the river
Strymon.  A settlement upon the spot on which the city now stands was
before attempted by Aristagoras, the Milesian (when he fled from
King Darius), who was however dislodged by the Edonians; and
thirty-two years later by the Athenians, who sent thither ten thousand
settlers of their own citizens, and whoever else chose to go.  These
were cut off at Drabescus by the Thracians.  Twenty-nine years after,
the Athenians returned (Hagnon, son of Nicias, being sent out as
leader of the colony) and drove out the Edonians, and founded a town
on the spot, formerly called Ennea Hodoi or Nine Ways.  The base from
which they started was Eion, their commercial seaport at the mouth
of the river, not more than three miles from the present town, which
Hagnon named Amphipolis, because the Strymon flows round it on two
sides, and he built it so as to be conspicuous from the sea and land
alike, running a long wall across from river to river, to complete the
circumference.

Brasidas now marched against this town, starting from Arne in
Chalcidice.  Arriving about dusk at Aulon and Bromiscus, where the lake
of Bolbe runs into the sea, he supped there, and went on during the
night.  The weather was stormy and it was snowing a little, which
encouraged him to hurry on, in order, if possible, to take every one
at Amphipolis by surprise, except the party who were to betray it.  The
plot was carried on by some natives of Argilus, an Andrian colony,
residing in Amphipolis, where they had also other accomplices gained
over by Perdiccas or the Chalcidians.  But the most active in the
matter were the inhabitants of Argilus itself, which is close by,
who had always been suspected by the Athenians, and had had designs on
the place.  These men now saw their opportunity arrive with Brasidas,
and having for some time been in correspondence with their
countrymen in Amphipolis for the betrayal of the town, at once
received him into Argilus, and revolted from the Athenians, and that
same night took him on to the bridge over the river; where he found
only a small guard to oppose him, the town being at some distance from
the passage, and the walls not reaching down to it as at present.  This
guard he easily drove in, partly through there being treason in
their ranks, partly from the stormy state of the weather and the
suddenness of his attack, and so got across the bridge, and
immediately became master of all the property outside; the
Amphipolitans having houses all over the quarter.

The passage of Brasidas was a complete surprise to the people in the
town; and the capture of many of those outside, and the flight of
the rest within the wall, combined to produce great confusion among
the citizens; especially as they did not trust one another.  It is even
said that if Brasidas, instead of stopping to pillage, had advanced
straight against the town, he would probably have taken it.  In fact,
however, he established himself where he was and overran the country
outside, and for the present remained inactive, vainly awaiting a
demonstration on the part of his friends within.  Meanwhile the party
opposed to the traitors proved numerous enough to prevent the gates
being immediately thrown open, and in concert with Eucles, the
general, who had come from Athens to defend the place, sent to the
other commander in Thrace, Thucydides, son of Olorus, the author of
this history, who was at the isle of Thasos, a Parian colony, half a
day's sail from Amphipolis, to tell him to come to their relief.  On
receipt of this message he at once set sail with seven ships which
he had with him, in order, if possible, to reach Amphipolis in time to
prevent its capitulation, or in any case to save Eion.

Meanwhile Brasidas, afraid of succours arriving by sea from
Thasos, and learning that Thucydides possessed the right of working
the gold mines in that part of Thrace, and had thus great influence
with the inhabitants of the continent, hastened to gain the town, if
possible, before the people of Amphipolis should be encouraged by
his arrival to hope that he could save them by getting together a
force of allies from the sea and from Thrace, and so refuse to
surrender.  He accordingly offered moderate terms, proclaiming that any
of the Amphipolitans and Athenians who chose, might continue to
enjoy their property with full rights of citizenship; while those
who did not wish to stay had five days to depart, taking their
property with them.

The bulk of the inhabitants, upon hearing this, began to change
their minds, especially as only a small number of the citizens were
Athenians, the majority having come from different quarters, and
many of the prisoners outside had relations within the walls.  They
found the proclamation a fair one in comparison of what their fear had
suggested; the Athenians being glad to go out, as they thought they
ran more risk than the rest, and further, did not expect any speedy
relief, and the multitude generally being content at being left in
possession of their civic rights, and at such an unexpected reprieve
from danger.  The partisans of Brasidas now openly advocated this
course, seeing that the feeling of the people had changed, and that
they no longer gave ear to the Athenian general present; and thus
the surrender was made and Brasidas was admitted by them on the
terms of his proclamation.  In this way they gave up the city, and late
in the same day Thucydides and his ships entered the harbour of
Eion, Brasidas having just got hold of Amphipolis, and having been
within a night of taking Eion: had the ships been less prompt in
relieving it, in the morning it would have been his.

After this Thucydides put all in order at Eion to secure it
against any present or future attack of Brasidas, and received such as
had elected to come there from the interior according to the terms
agreed on.  Meanwhile Brasidas suddenly sailed with a number of boats
down the river to Eion to see if he could not seize the point
running out from the wall, and so command the entrance; at the same
time he attempted it by land, but was beaten off on both sides and had
to content himself with arranging matters at Amphipolis and in the
neighbourhood.  Myrcinus, an Edonian town, also came over to him; the
Edonian king Pittacus having been killed by the sons of Goaxis and his
own wife Brauro; and Galepsus and Oesime, which are Thasian
colonies, not long after followed its example.  Perdiccas too came up
immediately after the capture and joined in these arrangements.

The news that Amphipolis was in the hands of the enemy caused
great alarm at Athens.  Not only was the town valuable for the timber
it afforded for shipbuilding, and the money that it brought in; but
also, although the escort of the Thessalians gave the Lacedaemonians a
means of reaching the allies of Athens as far as the Strymon, yet as
long as they were not masters of the bridge but were watched on the
side of Eion by the Athenian galleys, and on the land side impeded
by a large and extensive lake formed by the waters of the river, it
was impossible for them to go any further.  Now, on the contrary, the
path seemed open.  There was also the fear of the allies revolting,
owing to the moderation displayed by Brasidas in all his conduct,
and to the declarations which he was everywhere making that he sent
out to free Hellas.  The towns subject to the Athenians, hearing of the
capture of Amphipolis and of the terms accorded to it, and of the
gentleness of Brasidas, felt most strongly encouraged to change
their condition, and sent secret messages to him, begging him to
come on to them; each wishing to be the first to revolt.  Indeed
there seemed to be no danger in so doing; their mistake in their
estimate of the Athenian power was as great as that power afterwards
turned out to be, and their judgment was based more upon blind wishing
than upon any sound prevision; for it is a habit of mankind to entrust
to careless hope what they long for, and to use sovereign reason to
thrust aside what they do not fancy.  Besides the late severe blow
which the Athenians had met with in Boeotia, joined to the
seductive, though untrue, statements of Brasidas, about the
Athenians not having ventured to engage his single army at Nisaea,
made the allies confident, and caused them to believe that no Athenian
force would be sent against them.  Above all the wish to do what was
agreeable at the moment, and the likelihood that they should find
the Lacedaemonians full of zeal at starting, made them eager to
venture.  Observing this, the Athenians sent garrisons to the different
towns, as far as was possible at such short notice and in winter;
while Brasidas sent dispatches to Lacedaemon asking for
reinforcements, and himself made preparations for building galleys
in the Strymon.  The Lacedaemonians however did not send him any,
partly through envy on the part of their chief men, partly because
they were more bent on recovering the prisoners of the island and
ending the war.

The same winter the Megarians took and razed to the foundations
the long walls which had been occupied by the Athenians; and
Brasidas after the capture of Amphipolis marched with his allies
against Acte, a promontory running out from the King's dike with an
inward curve, and ending in Athos, a lofty mountain looking towards
the Aegean Sea.  In it are various towns, Sane, an Andrian colony,
close to the canal, and facing the sea in the direction of Euboea; the
others being Thyssus, Cleone, Acrothoi, Olophyxus, and Dium, inhabited
by mixed barbarian races speaking the two languages.  There is also a
small Chalcidian element; but the greater number are
Tyrrheno-Pelasgians once settled in Lemnos and Athens, and Bisaltians,
Crestonians, and Edonians; the towns being all small ones.  Most of
these came over to Brasidas; but Sane and Dium held out and saw
their land ravaged by him and his army.

Upon their not submitting, he at once marched against Torone in
Chalcidice, which was held by an Athenian garrison, having been
invited by a few persons who were prepared to hand over the town.
Arriving in the dark a little before daybreak, he sat down with his
army near the temple of the Dioscuri, rather more than a quarter of
a mile from the city.  The rest of the town of Torone and the Athenians
in garrison did not perceive his approach; but his partisans knowing
that he was coming (a few of them had secretly gone out to meet him)
were on the watch for his arrival, and were no sooner aware of it than
they took it to them seven light-armed men with daggers, who alone
of twenty men ordered on this service dared to enter, commanded by
Lysistratus an Olynthian.  These passed through the sea wall, and
without being seen went up and put to the sword the garrison of the
highest post in the town, which stands on a hill, and broke open the
postern on the side of Canastraeum.

Brasidas meanwhile came a little nearer and then halted with his
main body, sending on one hundred targeteers to be ready to rush in
first, the moment that a gate should be thrown open and the beacon
lighted as agreed.  After some time passed in waiting and wondering
at the delay, the targeteers by degrees got up close to the town.
The Toronaeans inside at work with the party that had entered had by
this time broken down the postern and opened the gates leading to
the market-place by cutting through the bar, and first brought some
men round and let them in by the postern, in order to strike a panic
into the surprised townsmen by suddenly attacking them from behind and
on both sides at once; after which they raised the fire-signal as
had been agreed, and took in by the market gates the rest of the
targeteers.

Brasidas seeing the signal told the troops to rise, and dashed
forward amid the loud hurrahs of his men, which carried dismay among
the astonished townspeople.  Some burst in straight by the gate, others
over some square pieces of timber placed against the wall (which has
fallen down and was being rebuilt) to draw up stones; Brasidas and the
greater number making straight uphill for the higher part of the town,
in order to take it from top to bottom, and once for all, while the
rest of the multitude spread in all directions.

The capture of the town was effected before the great body of the
Toronaeans had recovered from their surprise and confusion; but the
conspirators and the citizens of their party at once joined the
invaders.  About fifty of the Athenian heavy infantry happened to be
sleeping in the market-place when the alarm reached them.  A few of
these were killed fighting; the rest escaped, some by land, others
to the two ships on the station, and took refuge in Lecythus, a fort
garrisoned by their own men in the corner of the town running out into
the sea and cut off by a narrow isthmus; where they were joined by the
Toronaeans of their party.

Day now arrived, and the town being secured, Brasidas made a
proclamation to the Toronaeans who had taken refuge with the
Athenians, to come out, as many as chose, to their homes without
fearing for their rights or persons, and sent a herald to invite the
Athenians to accept a truce, and to evacuate Lecythus with their
property, as being Chalcidian ground.  The Athenians refused this
offer, but asked for a truce for a day to take up their dead.  Brasidas
granted it for two days, which he employed in fortifying the houses
near, and the Athenians in doing the same to their positions.
Meanwhile he called a meeting of the Toronaeans, and said very much
what he had said at Acanthus, namely, that they must not look upon
those who had negotiated with him for the capture of the town as bad
men or as traitors, as they had not acted as they had done from
corrupt motives or in order to enslave the city, but for the good
and freedom of Torone; nor again must those who had not shared in
the enterprise fancy that they would not equally reap its fruits, as
he had not come to destroy either city or individual.  This was the
reason of his proclamation to those that had fled for refuge to the
Athenians: he thought none the worse of them for their friendship
for the Athenians; he believed that they had only to make trial of the
Lacedaemonians to like them as well, or even much better, as acting
much more justly: it was for want of such a trial that they were now
afraid of them.  Meanwhile he warned all of them to prepare to be
staunch allies, and for being held responsible for all faults in
future: for the past, they had not wronged the Lacedaemonians but
had been wronged by others who were too strong for them, and any
opposition that they might have offered him could be excused.

Having encouraged them with this address, as soon as the truce
expired he made his attack upon Lecythus; the Athenians defending
themselves from a poor wall and from some houses with parapets.  One
day they beat him off; the next the enemy were preparing to bring up
an engine against them from which they meant to throw fire upon the
wooden defences, and the troops were already coming up to the point
where they fancied they could best bring up the engine, and where
place was most assailable; meanwhile the Athenians put a wooden
tower upon a house opposite, and carried up a quantity of jars and
casks of water and big stones, and a large number of men also
climbed up.  The house thus laden too heavily suddenly broke down
with a loud crash; at which the men who were near and saw it were more
vexed than frightened; but those not so near, and still more those
furthest off, thought that the place was already taken at that
point, and fled in haste to the sea and the ships.

Brasidas, perceiving that they were deserting the parapet, and
seeing what was going on, dashed forward with his troops, and
immediately took the fort, and put to the sword all whom he found in
it.  In this way the place was evacuated by the Athenians, who went
across in their boats and ships to Pallene.  Now there is a temple of
Athene in Lecythus, and Brasidas had proclaimed in the moment of
making the assault that he would give thirty silver minae to the man
first on the wall.  Being now of opinion that the capture was
scarcely due to human means, he gave the thirty minae to the goddess
for her temple, and razed and cleared Lecythus, and made the whole
of it consecrated ground.  The rest of the winter he spent in
settling the places in his hands, and in making designs upon the rest;
and with the expiration of the winter the eighth year of this war
ended.

In the spring of the summer following, the Lacedaemonians and
Athenians made an armistice for a year; the Athenians thinking that
they would thus have full leisure to take their precautions before
Brasidas could procure the revolt of any more of their towns, and
might also, if it suited them, conclude a general peace; the
Lacedaemonians divining the actual fears of the Athenians, and
thinking that after once tasting a respite from trouble and misery
they would be more disposed to consent to a reconciliation, and to
give back the prisoners, and make a treaty for the longer period.
The great idea of the Lacedaemonians was to get back their men while
Brasidas's good fortune lasted: further successes might make the
struggle a less unequal one in Chalcidice, but would leave them
still deprived of their men, and even in Chalcidice not more than a
match for the Athenians and by no means certain of victory.  An
armistice was accordingly concluded by Lacedaemon and her allies
upon the terms following:

1.  As to the temple and oracle of the Pythian Apollo, we are
agreed that whosoever will shall have access to it, without fraud or
fear, according to the usages of his forefathers.  The Lacedaemonians
and the allies present agree to this, and promise to send heralds to
the Boeotians and Phocians, and to do their best to persuade them to
agree likewise.

2.  As to the treasure of the god, we agree to exert ourselves to
detect all malversators, truly and honestly following the customs of
our forefathers, we and you and all others willing to do so, all
following the customs of our forefathers.  As to these points the
Lacedaemonians and the other allies are agreed as has been said.

3.  As to what follows, the Lacedaemonians and the other allies
agree, if the Athenians conclude a treaty, to remain, each of us in
our own territory, retaining our respective acquisitions: the garrison
in Coryphasium keeping within Buphras and Tomeus: that in Cythera
attempting no communication with the Peloponnesian confederacy,
neither we with them, nor they with us: that in Nisaea and Minoa not
crossing the road leading from the gates of the temple of Nisus to
that of Poseidon and from thence straight to the bridge at Minoa:
the Megarians and the allies being equally bound not to cross this
road, and the Athenians retaining the island they have taken,
without any communication on either side: as to Troezen, each side
retaining what it has, and as was arranged with the Athenians.

4.  As to the use of the sea, so far as refers to their own coast
and to that of their confederacy, that the Lacedaemonians and their
allies may voyage upon it in any vessel rowed by oars and of not
more than five hundred talents tonnage, not a vessel of war.

5.  That all heralds and embassies, with as many attendants as they
please, for concluding the war and adjusting claims, shall have free
passage, going and coming, to Peloponnese or Athens by land and by
sea.

6.  That during the truce, deserters whether bond or free shall
be received neither by you, nor by us.

7.  Further, that satisfaction shall be given by you to us and by
us to you according to the public law of our several countries, all
disputes being settled by law without recourse to hostilities.

The Lacedaemonians and allies agree to these articles; but if
you have anything fairer or juster to suggest, come to Lacedaemon
and let us know: whatever shall be just will meet with no objection
either from the Lacedaemonians or from the allies.  Only let those
who come come with full powers, as you desire us.  The truce shall be
for one year.

Approved by the people.

The tribe of Acamantis had the prytany, Phoenippus was
secretary, Niciades chairman.  Laches moved, in the name of the good
luck of the Athenians, that they should conclude the armistice upon
the terms agreed upon by the Lacedaemonians and the allies.  It was
agreed accordingly in the popular assembly that the armistice should
be for one year, beginning that very day, the fourteenth of the
month of Elaphebolion; during which time ambassadors and heralds
should go and come between the two countries to discuss the bases of a
pacification.  That the generals and prytanes should call an assembly
of the people, in which the Athenians should first consult on the
peace, and on the mode in which the embassy for putting an end to
the war should be admitted.  That the embassy now present should at
once take the engagement before the people to keep well and truly this
truce for one year.

On these terms the Lacedaemonians concluded with the Athenians and
their allies on the twelfth day of the Spartan month Gerastius; the
allies also taking the oaths.  Those who concluded and poured the
libation were Taurus, son of Echetimides, Athenaeus, son of
Pericleidas, and Philocharidas, son of Eryxidaidas, Lacedaemonians;
Aeneas, son of Ocytus, and Euphamidas, son of Aristonymus,
Corinthians; Damotimus, son of Naucrates, and Onasimus, son of
Megacles, Sicyonians; Nicasus, son of Cecalus, and Menecrates, son
of Amphidorus, Megarians; and Amphias, son of Eupaidas, an Epidaurian;
and the Athenian generals Nicostratus, son of Diitrephes, Nicias,
son of Niceratus, and Autocles, son of Tolmaeus.  Such was the
armistice, and during the whole of it conferences went on on the
subject of a pacification.

In the days in which they were going backwards and forwards to these
conferences, Scione, a town in Pallene, revolted from Athens, and went
over to Brasidas.  The Scionaeans say that they are Pallenians from
Peloponnese, and that their first founders on their voyage from Troy
were carried in to this spot by the storm which the Achaeans were
caught in, and there settled.  The Scionaeans had no sooner revolted
than Brasidas crossed over by night to Scione, with a friendly
galley ahead and himself in a small boat some way behind; his idea
being that if he fell in with a vessel larger than the boat he would
have the galley to defend him, while a ship that was a match for the
galley would probably neglect the small vessel to attack the large
one, and thus leave him time to escape.  His passage effected, he
called a meeting of the Scionaeans and spoke to the same effect as
at Acanthus and Torone, adding that they merited the utmost
commendation, in that, in spite of Pallene within the isthmus being
cut off by the Athenian occupation of Potidaea and of their own
practically insular position, they had of their own free will gone
forward to meet their liberty instead of timorously waiting until they
had been by force compelled to their own manifest good.  This was a
sign that they would valiantly undergo any trial, however great; and
if he should order affairs as he intended, he should count them
among the truest and sincerest friends of the Lacedaemonians, and
would in every other way honour them.

The Scionaeans were elated by his language, and even those who had
at first disapproved of what was being done catching the general
confidence, they determined on a vigorous conduct of the war, and
welcomed Brasidas with all possible honours, publicly crowning him
with a crown of gold as the liberator of Hellas; while private persons
crowded round him and decked him with garlands as though he had been
an athlete.  Meanwhile Brasidas left them a small garrison for the
present and crossed back again, and not long afterwards sent over a
larger force, intending with the help of the Scionaeans to attempt
Mende and Potidaea before the Athenians should arrive; Scione, he
felt, being too like an island for them not to relieve it.  He had
besides intelligence in the above towns about their betrayal.

In the midst of his designs upon the towns in question, a galley
arrived with the commissioners carrying round the news of the
armistice, Aristonymus for the Athenians and Athenaeus for the
Lacedaemonians.  The troops now crossed back to Torone, and the
commissioners gave Brasidas notice of the convention.  All the
Lacedaemonian allies in Thrace accepted what had been done; and
Aristonymus made no difficulty about the rest, but finding, on
counting the days, that the Scionaeans had revolted after the date
of the convention, refused to include them in it.  To this Brasidas
earnestly objected, asserting that the revolt took place before, and
would not give up the town.  Upon Aristonymus reporting the case to
Athens, the people at once prepared to send an expedition to Scione.
Upon this, envoys arrived from Lacedaemon, alleging that this would be
a breach of the truce, and laying claim to the town upon the faith
of the assertion of Brasidas, and meanwhile offering to submit the
question to arbitration.  Arbitration, however, was what the
Athenians did not choose to risk; being determined to send troops at
once to the place, and furious at the idea of even the islanders now
daring to revolt, in a vain reliance upon the power of the
Lacedaemonians by land.  Besides the facts of the revolt were rather as
the Athenians contended, the Scionaeans having revolted two days after
the convention.  Cleon accordingly succeeded in carrying a decree to
reduce and put to death the Scionaeans; and the Athenians employed the
leisure which they now enjoyed in preparing for the expedition.

Meanwhile Mende revolted, a town in Pallene and a colony of the
Eretrians, and was received without scruple by Brasidas, in spite of
its having evidently come over during the armistice, on account of
certain infringements of the truce alleged by him against the
Athenians.  This audacity of Mende was partly caused by seeing Brasidas
forward in the matter and by the conclusions drawn from his refusal to
betray Scione; and besides, the conspirators in Mende were few, and,
as I have already intimated, had carried on their practices too long
not to fear detection for themselves, and not to wish to force the
inclination of the multitude.  This news made the Athenians more
furious than ever, and they at once prepared against both towns.
Brasidas, expecting their arrival, conveyed away to Olynthus in
Chalcidice the women and children of the Scionaeans and Mendaeans, and
sent over to them five hundred Peloponnesian heavy infantry and
three hundred Chalcidian targeteers, all under the command of
Polydamidas.

Leaving these two towns to prepare together against the speedy
arrival of the Athenians, Brasidas and Perdiccas started on a second
joint expedition into Lyncus against Arrhabaeus; the latter with the
forces of his Macedonian subjects, and a corps of heavy infantry
composed of Hellenes domiciled in the country; the former with the
Peloponnesians whom he still had with him and the Chalcidians,
Acanthians, and the rest in such force as they were able.  In all there
were about three thousand Hellenic heavy infantry, accompanied by
all the Macedonian cavalry with the Chalcidians, near one thousand
strong, besides an immense crowd of barbarians.  On entering the
country of Arrhabaeus, they found the Lyncestians encamped awaiting
them, and themselves took up a position opposite.  The infantry on
either side were upon a hill, with a plain between them, into which
the horse of both armies first galloped down and engaged a cavalry
action.  After this the Lyncestian heavy infantry advanced from their
hill to join their cavalry and offered battle; upon which Brasidas and
Perdiccas also came down to meet them, and engaged and routed them
with heavy loss; the survivors taking refuge upon the heights and
there remaining inactive.  The victors now set up a trophy and waited
two or three days for the Illyrian mercenaries who were to join
Perdiccas.  Perdiccas then wished to go on and attack the villages of
Arrhabaeus, and to sit still no longer; but Brasidas, afraid that
the Athenians might sail up during his absence, and of something
happening to Mende, and seeing besides that the Illyrians did not
appear, far from seconding this wish was anxious to return.

While they were thus disputing, the news arrived that the
Illyrians had actually betrayed Perdiccas and had joined Arrhabaeus;
and the fear inspired by their warlike character made both parties now
think it best to retreat.  However, owing to the dispute, nothing had
been settled as to when they should start; and night coming on, the
Macedonians and the barbarian crowd took fright in a moment in one
of those mysterious panics to which great armies are liable; and
persuaded that an army many times more numerous than that which had
really arrived was advancing and all but upon them, suddenly broke and
fled in the direction of home, and thus compelled Perdiccas, who at
first did not perceive what had occurred, to depart without seeing
Brasidas, the two armies being encamped at a considerable distance
from each other.  At daybreak Brasidas, perceiving that the Macedonians
had gone on, and that the Illyrians and Arrhabaeus were on the point
of attacking him, formed his heavy infantry into a square, with the
light troops in the centre, and himself also prepared to retreat.
Posting his youngest soldiers to dash out wherever the enemy should
attack them, he himself with three hundred picked men in the rear
intended to face about during the retreat and beat off the most
forward of their assailants, Meanwhile, before the enemy approached,
he sought to sustain the courage of his soldiers with the following
hasty exhortation:

"Peloponnesians, if I did not suspect you of being dismayed at being
left alone to sustain the attack of a numerous and barbarian enemy,
I should just have said a few words to you as usual without further
explanation.  As it is, in the face of the desertion of our friends and
the numbers of the enemy, I have some advice and information to offer,
which, brief as they must be, will, I hope, suffice for the more
important points.  The bravery that you habitually display in war
does not depend on your having allies at your side in this or that
encounter, but on your native courage; nor have numbers any terrors
for citizens of states like yours, in which the many do not rule the
few, but rather the few the many, owing their position to nothing else
than to superiority in the field.  Inexperience now makes you afraid of
barbarians; and yet the trial of strength which you had with the
Macedonians among them, and my own judgment, confirmed by what I
hear from others, should be enough to satisfy you that they will not
prove formidable.  Where an enemy seems strong but is really weak, a
true knowledge of the facts makes his adversary the bolder, just as
a serious antagonist is encountered most confidently by those who do
not know him.  Thus the present enemy might terrify an inexperienced
imagination; they are formidable in outward bulk, their loud yelling
is unbearable, and the brandishing of their weapons in the air has a
threatening appearance.  But when it comes to real fighting with an
opponent who stands his ground, they are not what they seemed; they
have no regular order that they should be ashamed of deserting their
positions when hard pressed; flight and attack are with them equally
honourable, and afford no test of courage; their independent mode of
fighting never leaving any one who wants to run away without a fair
excuse for so doing.  In short, they think frightening you at a
secure distance a surer game than meeting you hand to hand;
otherwise they would have done the one and not the other.  You can thus
plainly see that the terrors with which they were at first invested
are in fact trifling enough, though to the eye and ear very prominent.
Stand your ground therefore when they advance, and again wait your
opportunity to retire in good order, and you will reach a place of
safety all the sooner, and will know for ever afterwards that rabble
such as these, to those who sustain their first attack, do but show
off their courage by threats of the terrible things that they are
going to do, at a distance, but with those who give way to them are
quick enough to display their heroism in pursuit when they can do so
without danger."

With this brief address Brasidas began to lead off his army.
Seeing this, the barbarians came on with much shouting and hubbub,
thinking that he was flying and that they would overtake him and cut
him off.  But wherever they charged they found the young men ready to
dash out against them, while Brasidas with his picked company
sustained their onset.  Thus the Peloponnesians withstood the first
attack, to the surprise of the enemy, and afterwards received and
repulsed them as fast as they came on, retiring as soon as their
opponents became quiet.  The main body of the barbarians ceased
therefore to molest the Hellenes with Brasidas in the open country,
and leaving behind a certain number to harass their march, the rest
went on after the flying Macedonians, slaying those with whom they
came up, and so arrived in time to occupy the narrow pass between
two hills that leads into the country of Arrhabaeus.  They knew that
this was the only way by which Brasidas could retreat, and now
proceeded to surround him just as he entered the most impracticable
part of the road, in order to cut him off.

Brasidas, perceiving their intention, told his three hundred to
run on without order, each as quickly as he could, to the hill which
seemed easiest to take, and to try to dislodge the barbarians
already there, before they should be joined by the main body closing
round him.  These attacked and overpowered the party upon the hill, and
the main army of the Hellenes now advanced with less difficulty
towards it--the barbarians being terrified at seeing their men on
that side driven from the height and no longer following the main
body, who, they considered, had gained the frontier and made good
their escape.  The heights once gained, Brasidas now proceeded more
securely, and the same day arrived at Arnisa, the first town in the
dominions of Perdiccas.  The soldiers, enraged at the desertion of
the Macedonians, vented their rage on all their yokes of oxen which
they found on the road, and on any baggage which had tumbled off (as
might easily happen in the panic of a night retreat), by unyoking
and cutting down the cattle and taking the baggage for themselves.
From this moment Perdiccas began to regard Brasidas as an enemy and to
feel against the Peloponnesians a hatred which could not be
congenial to the adversary of the Athenians.  However, he departed from
his natural interests and made it his endeavour to come to terms
with the latter and to get rid of the former.

On his return from Macedonia to Torone, Brasidas found the Athenians
already masters of Mende, and remained quiet where he was, thinking it
now out of his power to cross over into Pallene and assist the
Mendaeans, but he kept good watch over Torone.  For about the same time
as the campaign in Lyncus, the Athenians sailed upon the expedition
which we left them preparing against Mende and Scione, with fifty
ships, ten of which were Chians, one thousand Athenian heavy
infantry and six hundred archers, one hundred Thracian mercenaries and
some targeteers drawn from their allies in the neighbourhood, under
the command of Nicias, son of Niceratus, and Nicostratus, son of
Diitrephes.  Weighing from Potidaea, the fleet came to land opposite
the temple of Poseidon, and proceeded against Mende; the men of
which town, reinforced by three hundred Scionaeans, with their
Peloponnesian auxiliaries, seven hundred heavy infantry in all,
under Polydamidas, they found encamped upon a strong hill outside
the city.  These Nicias, with one hundred and twenty light-armed
Methonaeans, sixty picked men from the Athenian heavy infantry, and
all the archers, tried to reach by a path running up the hill, but
received a wound and found himself unable to force the position; while
Nicostratus, with all the rest of the army, advancing upon the hill,
which was naturally difficult, by a different approach further off,
was thrown into utter disorder; and the whole Athenian army narrowly
escaped being defeated.  For that day, as the Mendaeans and their
allies showed no signs of yielding, the Athenians retreated and
encamped, and the Mendaeans at nightfall returned into the town.

The next day the Athenians sailed round to the Scione side, and took
the suburb, and all day plundered the country, without any one
coming out against them, partly because of intestine disturbances in
the town; and the following night the three hundred Scionaeans
returned home.  On the morrow Nicias advanced with half the army to the
frontier of Scione and laid waste the country; while Nicostratus
with the remainder sat down before the town near the upper gate on the
road to Potidaea.  The arms of the Mendaeans and of their Peloponnesian
auxiliaries within the wall happened to be piled in that quarter,
where Polydamidas accordingly began to draw them up for battle,
encouraging the Mendaeans to make a sortie.  At this moment one of
the popular party answered him factiously that they would not go out
and did not want a war, and for thus answering was dragged by the
arm and knocked about by Polydamidas.  Hereupon the infuriated
commons at once seized their arms and rushed at the Peloponnesians and
at their allies of the opposite faction.  The troops thus assaulted
were at once routed, partly from the suddenness of the conflict and
partly through fear of the gates being opened to the Athenians, with
whom they imagined that the attack had been concerted.  As many as were
not killed on the spot took refuge in the citadel, which they had held
from the first; and the whole, Athenian army, Nicias having by this
time returned and being close to the city, now burst into Mende, which
had opened its gates without any convention, and sacked it just as
if they had taken it by storm, the generals even finding some
difficulty in restraining them from also massacring the inhabitants.
After this the Athenians told the Mendaeans that they might retain
their civil rights, and themselves judge the supposed authors of the
revolt; and cut off the party in the citadel by a wall built down to
the sea on either side, appointing troops to maintain the blockade.
Having thus secured Mende, they proceeded against Scione.

The Scionaeans and Peloponnesians marched out against them,
occupying a strong hill in front of the town, which had to be captured
by the enemy before they could invest the place.  The Athenians stormed
the hill, defeated and dislodged its occupants, and, having encamped
and set up a trophy, prepared for the work of circumvallation.  Not
long after they had begun their operations, the auxiliaries besieged
in the citadel of Mende forced the guard by the sea-side and arrived
by night at Scione, into which most of them succeeded in entering,
passing through the besieging army.

While the investment of Scione was in progress, Perdiccas sent a
herald to the Athenian generals and made peace with the Athenians,
through spite against Brasidas for the retreat from Lyncus, from which
moment indeed he had begun to negotiate.  The Lacedaemonian
Ischagoras was just then upon the point of starting with an army
overland to join Brasidas; and Perdiccas, being now required by Nicias
to give some proof of the sincerity of his reconciliation to the
Athenians, and being himself no longer disposed to let the
Peloponnesians into his country, put in motion his friends in
Thessaly, with whose chief men he always took care to have
relations, and so effectually stopped the army and its preparation
that they did not even try the Thessalians.  Ischagoras himself,
however, with Ameinias and Aristeus, succeeded in reaching Brasidas;
they had been commissioned by the Lacedaemonians to inspect the
state of affairs, and brought out from Sparta (in violation of all
precedent) some of their young men to put in command of the towns,
to guard against their being entrusted to the persons upon the spot.
Brasidas accordingly placed Clearidas, son of Cleonymus, in
Amphipolis, and Pasitelidas, son of Hegesander, in Torone.

The same summer the Thebans dismantled the wall of the Thespians
on the charge of Atticism, having always wished to do so, and now
finding it an easy matter, as the flower of the Thespian youth had
perished in the battle with the Athenians.  The same summer also the
temple of Hera at Argos was burnt down, through Chrysis, the
priestess, placing a lighted torch near the garlands and then
falling asleep, so that they all caught fire and were in a blaze
before she observed it.  Chrysis that very night fled to Phlius for
fear of the Argives, who, agreeably to the law in such a case,
appointed another priestess named Phaeinis.  Chrysis at the time of her
flight had been priestess for eight years of the present war and
half the ninth.  At the close of the summer the investment of Scione
was completed, and the Athenians, leaving a detachment to maintain the
blockade, returned with the rest of their army.

During the winter following, the Athenians and Lacedaemonians were
kept quiet by the armistice; but the Mantineans and Tegeans, and their
respective allies, fought a battle at Laodicium, in the Oresthid.
The victory remained doubtful, as each side routed one of the wings
opposed to them, and both set up trophies and sent spoils to Delphi.
After heavy loss on both sides the battle was undecided, and night
interrupted the action; yet the Tegeans passed the night on the
field and set up a trophy at once, while the Mantineans withdrew to
Bucolion and set up theirs afterwards.

At the close of the same winter, in fact almost in spring,
Brasidas made an attempt upon Potidaea.  He arrived by night, and
succeeded in planting a ladder against the wall without being
discovered, the ladder being planted just in the interval between
the passing round of the bell and the return of the man who brought it
back.  Upon the garrison, however, taking the alarm immediately
afterwards, before his men came up, he quickly led off his troops,
without waiting until it was day.  So ended the winter and the ninth
year of this war of which Thucydides is the historian.




BOOK V

CHAPTER XV

_Tenth Year of the War - Death of Cleon and Brasidas -
Peace of Nicias_

The next summer the truce for a year ended, after lasting until
the Pythian games.  During the armistice the Athenians expelled the
Delians from Delos, concluding that they must have been polluted by
some old offence at the time of their consecration, and that this
had been the omission in the previous purification of the island,
which, as I have related, had been thought to have been duly
accomplished by the removal of the graves of the dead.  The Delians had
Atramyttium in Asia given them by Pharnaces, and settled there as they
removed from Delos.

Meanwhile Cleon prevailed on the Athenians to let him set sail at
the expiration of the armistice for the towns in the direction of
Thrace with twelve hundred heavy infantry and three hundred horse from
Athens, a large force of the allies, and thirty ships.  First
touching at the still besieged Scione, and taking some heavy
infantry from the army there, he next sailed into Cophos, a harbour in
the territory of Torone, which is not far from the town.  From
thence, having learnt from deserters that Brasidas was not in
Torone, and that its garrison was not strong enough to give him
battle, he advanced with his army against the town, sending ten
ships to sail round into the harbour.  He first came to the
fortification lately thrown up in front of the town by Brasidas in
order to take in the suburb, to do which he had pulled down part of
the original wall and made it all one city.  To this point Pasitelidas,
the Lacedaemonian commander, with such garrison as there was in the
place, hurried to repel the Athenian assault; but finding himself hard
pressed, and seeing the ships that had been sent round sailing into
the harbour, Pasitelidas began to be afraid that they might get up
to the city before its defenders were there and, the fortification
being also carried, he might be taken prisoner, and so abandoned the
outwork and ran into the town.  But the Athenians from the ships had
already taken Torone, and their land forces following at his heels
burst in with him with a rush over the part of the old wall that had
been pulled down, killing some of the Peloponnesians and Toronaeans in
the melee, and making prisoners of the rest, and Pasitelidas their
commander amongst them.  Brasidas meanwhile had advanced to relieve
Torone, and had only about four miles more to go when he heard of
its fall on the road, and turned back again.  Cleon and the Athenians
set up two trophies, one by the harbour, the other by the
fortification and, making slaves of the wives and children of the
Toronaeans, sent the men with the Peloponnesians and any Chalcidians
that were there, to the number of seven hundred, to Athens; whence,
however, they all came home afterwards, the Peloponnesians on the
conclusion of peace, and the rest by being exchanged against other
prisoners with the Olynthians.  About the same time Panactum, a
fortress on the Athenian border, was taken by treachery by the
Boeotians.  Meanwhile Cleon, after placing a garrison in Torone,
weighed anchor and sailed around Athos on his way to Amphipolis.

About the same time Phaeax, son of Erasistratus, set sail with two
colleagues as ambassador from Athens to Italy and Sicily.  The
Leontines, upon the departure of the Athenians from Sicily after the
pacification, had placed a number of new citizens upon the roll, and
the commons had a design for redividing the land; but the upper
classes, aware of their intention, called in the Syracusans and
expelled the commons.  These last were scattered in various directions;
but the upper classes came to an agreement with the Syracusans,
abandoned and laid waste their city, and went and lived at Syracuse,
where they were made citizens.  Afterwards some of them were
dissatisfied, and leaving Syracuse occupied Phocaeae, a quarter of the
town of Leontini, and Bricinniae, a strong place in the Leontine
country, and being there joined by most of the exiled commons
carried on war from the fortifications.  The Athenians hearing this,
sent Phaeax to see if they could not by some means so convince their
allies there and the rest of the Sicilians of the ambitious designs of
Syracuse as to induce them to form a general coalition against her,
and thus save the commons of Leontini.  Arrived in Sicily, Phaeax
succeeded at Camarina and Agrigentum, but meeting with a repulse at
Gela did not go on to the rest, as he saw that he should not succeed
with them, but returned through the country of the Sicels to Catana,
and after visiting Bricinniae as he passed, and encouraging its
inhabitants, sailed back to Athens.

During his voyage along the coast to and from Sicily, he treated
with some cities in Italy on the subject of friendship with Athens,
and also fell in with some Locrian settlers exiled from Messina, who
had been sent thither when the Locrians were called in by one of the
factions that divided Messina after the pacification of Sicily, and
Messina came for a time into the hands of the Locrians.  These being
met by Phaeax on their return home received no injury at his hands, as
the Locrians had agreed with him for a treaty with Athens.  They were
the only people of the allies who, when the reconciliation between the
Sicilians took place, had not made peace with her; nor indeed would
they have done so now, if they had not been pressed by a war with
the Hipponians and Medmaeans who lived on their border, and were
colonists of theirs.  Phaeax meanwhile proceeded on his voyage, and
at length arrived at Athens.

Cleon, whom we left on his voyage from Torone to Amphipolis, made
Eion his base, and after an unsuccessful assault upon the Andrian
colony of Stagirus, took Galepsus, a colony of Thasos, by storm.  He
now sent envoys to Perdiccas to command his attendance with an army,
as provided by the alliance; and others to Thrace, to Polles, king
of the Odomantians, who was to bring as many Thracian mercenaries as
possible; and himself remained inactive in Eion, awaiting their
arrival.  Informed of this, Brasidas on his part took up a position
of observation upon Cerdylium, a place situated in the Argilian
country on high ground across the river, not far from Amphipolis,
and commanding a view on all sides, and thus made it impossible for
Cleon's army to move without his seeing it; for he fully expected that
Cleon, despising the scanty numbers of his opponent, would march
against Amphipolis with the force that he had got with him.  At the
same time Brasidas made his preparations, calling to his standard
fifteen hundred Thracian mercenaries and all the Edonians, horse and
targeteers; he also had a thousand Myrcinian and Chalcidian
targeteers, besides those in Amphipolis, and a force of heavy infantry
numbering altogether about two thousand, and three hundred Hellenic
horse.  Fifteen hundred of these he had with him upon Cerdylium; the
rest were stationed with Clearidas in Amphipolis.

After remaining quiet for some time, Cleon was at length obliged
to do as Brasidas expected.  His soldiers, tired of their inactivity,
began also seriously to reflect on the weakness and incompetence of
their commander, and the skill and valour that would be opposed to
him, and on their own original unwillingness to accompany him.  These
murmurs coming to the ears of Cleon, he resolved not to disgust the
army by keeping it in the same place, and broke up his camp and
advanced.  The temper of the general was what it had been at Pylos, his
success on that occasion having given him confidence in his
capacity.  He never dreamed of any one coming out to fight him, but
said that he was rather going up to view the place; and if he waited
for his reinforcements, it was not in order to make victory secure
in case he should be compelled to engage, but to be enabled to
surround and storm the city.  He accordingly came and posted his army
upon a strong hill in front of Amphipolis, and proceeded to examine
the lake formed by the Strymon, and how the town lay on the side of
Thrace.  He thought to retire at pleasure without fighting, as there
was no one to be seen upon the wall or coming out of the gates, all of
which were shut.  Indeed, it seemed a mistake not to have brought
down engines with him; he could then have taken the town, there
being no one to defend it.

As soon as Brasidas saw the Athenians in motion he descended himself
from Cerdylium and entered Amphipolis.  He did not venture to go out in
regular order against the Athenians: he mistrusted his strength, and
thought it inadequate to the attempt; not in numbers--these were not
so unequal--but in quality, the flower of the Athenian army being in
the field, with the best of the Lemnians and Imbrians.  He therefore
prepared to assail them by stratagem.  By showing the enemy the
number of his troops, and the shifts which he had been put to to to
arm them, he thought that he should have less chance of beating him
than by not letting him have a sight of them, and thus learn how
good a right he had to despise them.  He accordingly picked out a
hundred and fifty heavy infantry and, putting the rest under
Clearidas, determined to attack suddenly before the Athenians retired;
thinking that he should not have again such a chance of catching
them alone, if their reinforcements were once allowed to come up;
and so calling all his soldiers together in order to encourage them
and explain his intention, spoke as follows:

"Peloponnesians, the character of the country from which we have
come, one which has always owed its freedom to valour, and the fact
that you are Dorians and the enemy you are about to fight Ionians,
whom you are accustomed to beat, are things that do not need further
comment.  But the plan of attack that I propose to pursue, this it is
as well to explain, in order that the fact of our adventuring with a
part instead of with the whole of our forces may not damp your courage
by the apparent disadvantage at which it places you.  I imagine it is
the poor opinion that he has of us, and the fact that he has no idea
of any one coming out to engage him, that has made the enemy march
up to the place and carelessly look about him as he is doing,
without noticing us.  But the most successful soldier will always be
the man who most happily detects a blunder like this, and who
carefully consulting his own means makes his attack not so much by
open and regular approaches, as by seizing the opportunity of the
moment; and these stratagems, which do the greatest service to our
friends by most completely deceiving our enemies, have the most
brilliant name in war.  Therefore, while their careless confidence
continues, and they are still thinking, as in my judgment they are now
doing, more of retreat than of maintaining their position, while their
spirit is slack and not high-strung with expectation, I with the men
under my command will, if possible, take them by surprise and fall
with a run upon their centre; and do you, Clearidas, afterwards,
when you see me already upon them, and, as is likely, dealing terror
among them, take with you the Amphipolitans, and the rest of the
allies, and suddenly open the gates and dash at them, and hasten to
engage as quickly as you can.  That is our best chance of
establishing a panic among them, as a fresh assailant has always
more terrors for an enemy than the one he is immediately engaged with.
Show yourself a brave man, as a Spartan should; and do you, allies,
follow him like men, and remember that zeal, honour, and obedience
mark the good soldier, and that this day will make you either free men
and allies of Lacedaemon, or slaves of Athens; even if you escape
without personal loss of liberty or life, your bondage will be on
harsher terms than before, and you will also hinder the liberation
of the rest of the Hellenes.  No cowardice then on your part, seeing
the greatness of the issues at stake, and I will show that what I
preach to others I can practise myself."

After this brief speech Brasidas himself prepared for the sally, and
placed the rest with Clearidas at the Thracian gates to support him as
had been agreed.  Meanwhile he had been seen coming down from Cerdylium
and then in the city, which is overlooked from the outside,
sacrificing near the temple of Athene; in short, all his movements had
been observed, and word was brought to Cleon, who had at the moment
gone on to look about him, that the whole of the enemy's force could
be seen in the town, and that the feet of horses and men in great
numbers were visible under the gates, as if a sally were intended.
Upon hearing this he went up to look, and having done so, being
unwilling to venture upon the decisive step of a battle before his
reinforcements came up, and fancying that he would have time to
retire, bid the retreat be sounded and sent orders to the men to
effect it by moving on the left wing in the direction of Eion, which
was indeed the only way practicable.  This however not being quick
enough for him, he joined the retreat in person and made the right
wing wheel round, thus turning its unarmed side to the enemy.  It was
then that Brasidas, seeing the Athenian force in motion and his
opportunity come, said to the men with him and the rest: "Those
fellows will never stand before us, one can see that by the way
their spears and heads are going.  Troops which do as they do seldom
stand a charge.  Quick, someone, and open the gates I spoke of, and let
us be out and at them with no fears for the result." Accordingly
issuing out by the palisade gate and by the first in the long wall
then existing, he ran at the top of his speed along the straight road,
where the trophy now stands as you go by the steepest part of the
hill, and fell upon and routed the centre of the Athenians,
panic-stricken by their own disorder and astounded at his audacity.  At
the same moment Clearidas in execution of his orders issued out from
the Thracian gates to support him, and also attacked the enemy.  The
result was that the Athenians, suddenly and unexpectedly attacked on
both sides, fell into confusion; and their left towards Eion, which
had already got on some distance, at once broke and fled.  Just as it
was in full retreat and Brasidas was passing on to attack the right,
he received a wound; but his fall was not perceived by the
Athenians, as he was taken up by those near him and carried off the
field.  The Athenian right made a better stand, and though Cleon, who
from the first had no thought of fighting, at once fled and was
overtaken and slain by a Myrcinian targeteer, his infantry forming
in close order upon the hill twice or thrice repulsed the attacks of
Clearidas, and did not finally give way until they were surrounded and
routed by the missiles of the Myrcinian and Chalcidian horse and the
targeteers.  Thus the Athenian army was all now in flight; and such
as escaped being killed in the battle, or by the Chalcidian horse
and the targeteers, dispersed among the hills, and with difficulty
made their way to Eion.  The men who had taken up and rescued Brasidas,
brought him into the town with the breath still in him: he lived to
hear of the victory of his troops, and not long after expired.  The
rest of the army returning with Clearidas from the pursuit stripped
the dead and set up a trophy.

After this all the allies attended in arms and buried Brasidas at the
public expense in the city, in front of what is now the marketplace,
and the Amphipolitans, having enclosed his tomb, ever afterwards
sacrifice to him as a hero and have given to him the honour of games
and annual offerings.  They constituted him the founder of their
colony, and pulled down the Hagnonic erections, and obliterated
everything that could be interpreted as a memorial of his having
founded the place; for they considered that Brasidas had been their
preserver, and courting as they did the alliance of Lacedaemon for
fear of Athens, in their present hostile relations with the latter
they could no longer with the same advantage or satisfaction pay
Hagnon his honours.  They also gave the Athenians back their dead.
About six hundred of the latter had fallen and only seven of the
enemy, owing to there having been no regular engagement, but the
affair of accident and panic that I have described.  After taking up
their dead the Athenians sailed off home, while Clearidas and his
troops remained to arrange matters at Amphipolis.

About the same time three Lacedaemonians--Ramphias, Autocharidas,
and Epicydidas--led a reinforcement of nine hundred heavy infantry to
the towns in the direction of Thrace, and arriving at Heraclea in
Trachis reformed matters there as seemed good to them.  While they
delayed there, this battle took place and so the summer ended.

With the beginning of the winter following, Ramphias and his
companions penetrated as far as Pierium in Thessaly; but as the
Thessalians opposed their further advance, and Brasidas whom they came
to reinforce was dead, they turned back home, thinking that the moment
had gone by, the Athenians being defeated and gone, and themselves not
equal to the execution of Brasidas's designs.  The main cause however
of their return was because they knew that when they set out
Lacedaemonian opinion was really in favour of peace.

Indeed it so happened that directly after the battle of Amphipolis
and the retreat of Ramphias from Thessaly, both sides ceased to
prosecute the war and turned their attention to peace.  Athens had
suffered severely at Delium, and again shortly afterwards at
Amphipolis, and had no longer that confidence in her strength which
had made her before refuse to treat, in the belief of ultimate victory
which her success at the moment had inspired; besides, she was
afraid of her allies being tempted by her reverses to rebel more
generally, and repented having let go the splendid opportunity for
peace which the affair of Pylos had offered.  Lacedaemon, on the
other hand, found the event of the war to falsify her notion that a
few years would suffice for the overthrow of the power of the
Athenians by the devastation of their land.  She had suffered on the
island a disaster hitherto unknown at Sparta; she saw her country
plundered from Pylos and Cythera; the Helots were deserting, and she
was in constant apprehension that those who remained in Peloponnese
would rely upon those outside and take advantage of the situation to
renew their old attempts at revolution.  Besides this, as chance
would have it, her thirty years' truce with the Argives was upon the
point of expiring; and they refused to renew it unless Cynuria were
restored to them; so that it seemed impossible to fight Argos and
Athens at once.  She also suspected some of the cities in Peloponnese
of intending to go over to the enemy and that was indeed the case.

These considerations made both sides disposed for an
accommodation; the Lacedaemonians being probably the most eager, as
they ardently desired to recover the men taken upon the island, the
Spartans among whom belonged to the first families and were
accordingly related to the governing body in Lacedaemon.
Negotiations had been begun directly after their capture, but the
Athenians in their hour of triumph would not consent to any reasonable
terms; though after their defeat at Delium, Lacedaemon, knowing that
they would be now more inclined to listen, at once concluded the
armistice for a year, during which they were to confer together and
see if a longer period could not be agreed upon.

Now, however, after the Athenian defeat at Amphipolis, and the death
of Cleon and Brasidas, who had been the two principal opponents of
peace on either side--the latter from the success and honour which
war gave him, the former because he thought that, if tranquillity were
restored, his crimes would be more open to detection and his
slanders less credited--the foremost candidates for power in either
city, Pleistoanax, son of Pausanias, king of Lacedaemon, and Nicias,
son of Niceratus, the most fortunate general of his time, each desired
peace more ardently than ever.  Nicias, while still happy and honoured,
wished to secure his good fortune, to obtain a present release from
trouble for himself and his countrymen, and hand down to posterity a
name as an ever-successful statesman, and thought the way to do this
was to keep out of danger and commit himself as little as possible
to fortune, and that peace alone made this keeping out of danger
possible.  Pleistoanax, again, was assailed by his enemies for his
restoration, and regularly held up by them to the prejudice of his
countrymen, upon every reverse that befell them, as though his
unjust restoration were the cause; the accusation being that he and
his brother Aristocles had bribed the prophetess of Delphi to tell the
Lacedaemonian deputations which successively arrived at the temple
to bring home the seed of the demigod son of Zeus from abroad, else
they would have to plough with a silver share.  In this way, it was
insisted, in time he had induced the Lacedaemonians in the
nineteenth year of his exile to Lycaeum (whither he had gone when
banished on suspicion of having been bribed to retreat from Attica,
and had built half his house within the consecrated precinct of Zeus
for fear of the Lacedaemonians), to restore him with the same dances
and sacrifices with which they had instituted their kings upon the
first settlement of Lacedaemon.  The smart of this accusation, and
the reflection that in peace no disaster could occur, and that when
Lacedaemon had recovered her men there would be nothing for his
enemies to take hold of (whereas, while war lasted, the highest
station must always bear the scandal of everything that went wrong),
made him ardently desire a settlement.  Accordingly this winter was
employed in conferences; and as spring rapidly approached, the
Lacedaemonians sent round orders to the cities to prepare for a
fortified occupation of Attica, and held this as a sword over the
heads of the Athenians to induce them to listen to their overtures;
and at last, after many claims had been urged on either side at the
conferences a peace was agreed on upon the following basis.  Each party
was to restore its conquests, but Athens was to keep Nisaea; her
demand for Plataea being met by the Thebans asserting that they had
acquired the place not by force or treachery, but by the voluntary
adhesion upon agreement of its citizens; and the same, according to
the Athenian account, being the history of her acquisition of
Nisaea.  This arranged, the Lacedaemonians summoned their allies, and
all voting for peace except the Boeotians, Corinthians, Eleans, and
Megarians, who did not approve of these proceedings, they concluded
the treaty and made peace, each of the contracting parties swearing to
the following articles:

The Athenians and Lacedaemonians and their allies made a treaty,
and swore to it, city by city, as follows;

1.  Touching the national temples, there shall be a free passage by
land and by sea to all who wish it, to sacrifice, travel, consult, and
attend the oracle or games, according to the customs of their
countries.

2.  The temple and shrine of Apollo at Delphi and the Delphians
shall be governed by their own laws, taxed by their own state, and
judged by their own judges, the land and the people, according to
the custom of their country.

3.  The treaty shall be binding for fifty years upon the
Athenians and the allies of the Athenians, and upon the Lacedaemonians
and the allies of the Lacedaemonians, without fraud or hurt by land or
by sea.

4.  It shall not be lawful to take up arms, with intent to do hurt,
either for the Lacedaemonians and their allies against the Athenians
and their allies, or for the Athenians and their allies against the
Lacedaemonians and their allies, in any way or means whatsoever.  But
should any difference arise between them they are to have recourse
to law and oaths, according as may be agreed between the parties.

5.  The Lacedaemonians and their allies shall give back
Amphipolis to the Athenians.  Nevertheless, in the case of cities given
up by the Lacedaemonians to the Athenians, the inhabitants shall be
allowed to go where they please and to take their property with
them: and the cities shall be independent, paying only the tribute
of Aristides.  And it shall not be lawful for the Athenians or their
allies to carry on war against them after the treaty has been
concluded, so long as the tribute is paid.  The cities referred to
are Argilus, Stagirus, Acanthus, Scolus, Olynthus, and Spartolus.
These cities shall be neutral, allies neither of the Lacedaemonians
nor of the Athenians: but if the cities consent, it shall be lawful
for the Athenians to make them their allies, provided always that
the cities wish it.  The Mecybernaeans, Sanaeans, and Singaeans shall
inhabit their own cities, as also the Olynthians and Acanthians: but
the Lacedaemonians and their allies shall give back Panactum to the
Athenians.

6.  The Athenians shall give back Coryphasium, Cythera, Methana,
Lacedaemonians that are in the prison at Athens or elsewhere in the
Athenian dominions, and shall let go the Peloponnesians besieged in
Scione, and all others in Scione that are allies of the
Lacedaemonians, and all whom Brasidas sent in there, and any others of
the allies of the Lacedaemonians that may be in the prison at Athens
or elsewhere in the Athenian dominions.

7.  The Lacedaemonians and their allies shall in like manner give
back any of the Athenians or their allies that they may have in
their hands.

8.  In the case of Scione, Torone, and Sermylium, and any other
cities that the Athenians may have, the Athenians may adopt such
measures as they please.

9.  The Athenians shall take an oath to the Lacedaemonians and
their allies, city by city.  Every man shall swear by the most
binding oath of his country, seventeen from each city.  The oath
shall be as follows; "I will abide by this agreement and treaty
honestly and without deceit." In the same way an oath shall be taken
by the Lacedaemonians and their allies to the Athenians: and the
oath shall be renewed annually by both parties.  Pillars shall be
erected at Olympia, Pythia, the Isthmus, at Athens in the Acropolis,
and at Lacedaemon in the temple at Amyclae.

10.  If anything be forgotten, whatever it be, and on whatever
point, it shall be consistent with their oath for both parties, the
Athenians and Lacedaemonians, to alter it, according to their
discretion.

The treaty begins from the ephoralty of Pleistolas in
Lacedaemon, on the 27th day of the month of Artemisium, and from the
archonship, of Alcaeus at Athens, on the 25th day of the month of
Elaphebolion.  Those who took the oath and poured the libations for the
Lacedaemonians were Pleistoanax, Agis, Pleistolas, Damagetis, Chionis,
Metagenes, Acanthus, Daithus, Ischagoras, Philocharidas, Zeuxidas,
Antippus, Tellis, Alcinadas, Empedias, Menas, and Laphilus: for the
Athenians, Lampon, Isthmonicus, Nicias, Laches, Euthydemus, Procles,
Pythodorus, Hagnon, Myrtilus, Thrasycles, Theagenes, Aristocrates,
Iolcius, Timocrates, Leon, Lamachus, and Demosthenes.

This treaty was made in the spring, just at the end of winter,
directly after the city festival of Dionysus, just ten years, with the
difference of a few days, from the first invasion of Attica and the
commencement of this war.  This must be calculated by the seasons
rather than by trusting to the enumeration of the names of the several
magistrates or offices of honour that are used to mark past events.
Accuracy is impossible where an event may have occurred in the
beginning, or middle, or at any period in their tenure of office.
But by computing by summers and winters, the method adopted in this
history, it will be found that, each of these amounting to half a
year, there were ten summers and as many winters contained in this
first war.

Meanwhile the Lacedaemonians, to whose lot it fell to begin the work
of restitution, immediately set free all the prisoners of war in their
possession, and sent Ischagoras, Menas, and Philocharidas as envoys to
the towns in the direction of Thrace, to order Clearidas to hand
over Amphipolis to the Athenians, and the rest of their allies each to
accept the treaty as it affected them.  They, however, did not like its
terms, and refused to accept it; Clearidas also, willing to oblige the
Chalcidians, would not hand over the town, averring his inability to
do so against their will.  Meanwhile he hastened in person to
Lacedaemon with envoys from the place, to defend his disobedience
against the possible accusations of Ischagoras and his companions, and
also to see whether it was too late for the agreement to be altered;
and on finding the Lacedaemonians were bound, quickly set out back
again with instructions from them to hand over the place, if possible,
or at all events to bring out the Peloponnesians that were in it.

The allies happened to be present in person at Lacedaemon, and those
who had not accepted the treaty were now asked by the Lacedaemonians
to adopt it.  This, however, they refused to do, for the same reasons
as before, unless a fairer one than the present were agreed upon;
and remaining firm in their determination were dismissed by the
Lacedaemonians, who now decided on forming an alliance with the
Athenians, thinking that Argos, who had refused the application of
Ampelidas and Lichas for a renewal of the treaty, would without Athens
be no longer formidable, and that the rest of the Peloponnese would be
most likely to keep quiet, if the coveted alliance of Athens were shut
against them.  Accordingly, after conference with the Athenian
ambassadors, an alliance was agreed upon and oaths were exchanged,
upon the terms following:

1.  The Lacedaemonians shall be allies of the Athenians for fifty
years.

2.  Should any enemy invade the territory of Lacedaemon and
injure the Lacedaemonians, the Athenians shall help in such way as
they most effectively can, according to their power.  But if the
invader be gone after plundering the country, that city shall be the
enemy of Lacedaemon and Athens, and shall be chastised by both, and
one shall not make peace without the other.  This to be honestly,
loyally, and without fraud.

3.  Should any enemy invade the territory of Athens and injure
the Athenians, the Lacedaemonians shall help them in such way as
they most effectively can, according to their power.  But if the
invader be gone after plundering the country, that city shall be the
enemy of Lacedaemon and Athens, and shall be chastised by both, and
one shall not make peace without the other.  This to be honestly,
loyally, and without fraud.

4.  Should the slave population rise, the Athenians shall help
the Lacedaemonians with all their might, according to their power.

5.  This treaty shall be sworn to by the same persons on either
side that swore to the other.  It shall be renewed annually by the
Lacedaemonians going to Athens for the Dionysia, and the Athenians
to Lacedaemon for the Hyacinthia, and a pillar shall be set up by
either party: at Lacedaemon near the statue of Apollo at Amyclae,
and at Athens on the Acropolis near the statue of Athene.  Should the
Lacedaemonians and Athenians see to add to or take away from the
alliance in any particular, it shall be consistent with their oaths
for both parties to do so, according to their discretion.

Those who took the oath for the Lacedaemonians were Pleistoanax,
Agis, Pleistolas, Damagetus, Chionis, Metagenes, Acanthus, Daithus,
Ischagoras, Philocharidas, Zeuxidas, Antippus, Alcinadas, Tellis,
Empedias, Menas, and Laphilus; for the Athenians, Lampon,
Isthmionicus, Laches, Nicias, Euthydemus, Procles, Pythodorus, Hagnon,
Myrtilus, Thrasycles, Theagenes, Aristocrates, Iolcius, Timocrates,
Leon, Lamachus, and Demosthenes.

This alliance was made not long after the treaty; and the
Athenians gave back the men from the island to the Lacedaemonians, and
the summer of the eleventh year began.  This completes the history of
the first war, which occupied the whole of the ten years previously.




CHAPTER XVI

_Feeling against Sparta in Peloponnese - League of the Mantineans,
Eleans, Argives, and Athenians - Battle of Mantinea and
breaking up of the League_

After the treaty and the alliance between the Lacedaemonians and
Athenians, concluded after the ten years' war, in the ephorate of
Pleistolas at Lacedaemon, and the archonship of Alcaeus at Athens, the
states which had accepted them were at peace; but the Corinthians
and some of the cities in Peloponnese trying to disturb the
settlement, a fresh agitation was instantly commenced by the allies
against Lacedaemon.  Further, the Lacedaemonians, as time went on,
became suspected by the Athenians through their not performing some of
the provisions in the treaty; and though for six years and ten
months they abstained from invasion of each other's territory, yet
abroad an unstable armistice did not prevent either party doing the
other the most effectual injury, until they were finally obliged to
break the treaty made after the ten years' war and to have recourse to
open hostilities.

The history of this period has been also written by the same
Thucydides, an Athenian, in the chronological order of events by
summers and winters, to the time when the Lacedaemonians and their
allies put an end to the Athenian empire, and took the Long Walls
and Piraeus.  The war had then lasted for twenty-seven years in all.
Only a mistaken judgment can object to including the interval of
treaty in the war.  Looked at by the light of facts it cannot, it
will be found, be rationally considered a state of peace, where
neither party either gave or got back all that they had agreed,
apart from the violations of it which occurred on both sides in the
Mantinean and Epidaurian wars and other instances, and the fact that
the allies in the direction of Thrace were in as open hostility as
ever, while the Boeotians had only a truce renewed every ten days.
So that the first ten years' war, the treacherous armistice that
followed it, and the subsequent war will, calculating by the
seasons, be found to make up the number of years which I have
mentioned, with the difference of a few days, and to afford an
instance of faith in oracles being for once justified by the event.
I certainly all along remember from the beginning to the end of the
war its being commonly declared that it would last thrice nine
years.  I lived through the whole of it, being of an age to
comprehend events, and giving my attention to them in order to know
the exact truth about them.  It was also my fate to be an exile from my
country for twenty years after my command at Amphipolis; and being
present with both parties, and more especially with the Peloponnesians
by reason of my exile, I had leisure to observe affairs somewhat
particularly.  I will accordingly now relate the differences that arose
after the ten years' war, the breach of the treaty, and the
hostilities that followed.

After the conclusion of the fifty years' truce and of the
subsequent alliance, the embassies from Peloponnese which had been
summoned for this business returned from Lacedaemon.  The rest went
straight home, but the Corinthians first turned aside to Argos and
opened negotiations with some of the men in office there, pointing
out that Lacedaemon could have no good end in view, but only the
subjugation of Peloponnese, or she would never have entered into
treaty and alliance with the once detested Athenians, and that the
duty of consulting for the safety of Peloponnese had now fallen upon
Argos, who should immediately pass a decree inviting any Hellenic
state that chose, such state being independent and accustomed to meet
fellow powers upon the fair and equal ground of law and justice, to
make a defensive alliance with the Argives; appointing a few
individuals with plenipotentiary powers, instead of making the people
the medium of negotiation, in order that, in the case of an applicant
being rejected, the fact of his overtures might not be made public.
They said that many would come over from hatred of the Lacedaemonians.
After this explanation of their views, the Corinthians returned home.

The persons with whom they had communicated reported the proposal to
their government and people, and the Argives passed the decree and
chose twelve men to negotiate an alliance for any Hellenic state
that wished it, except Athens and Lacedaemon, neither of which
should be able to join without reference to the Argive people.  Argos
came into the plan the more readily because she saw that war with
Lacedaemon was inevitable, the truce being on the point of expiring;
and also because she hoped to gain the supremacy of Peloponnese.  For
at this time Lacedaemon had sunk very low in public estimation
because of her disasters, while the Argives were in a most
flourishing condition, having taken no part in the Attic war, but
having on the contrary profited largely by their neutrality.  The
Argives accordingly prepared to receive into alliance any of the
Hellenes that desired it.

The Mantineans and their allies were the first to come over through
fear of the Lacedaemonians.  Having taken advantage of the war against
Athens to reduce a large part of Arcadia into subjection, they
thought that Lacedaemon would not leave them undisturbed in their
conquests, now that she had leisure to interfere, and consequently
gladly turned to a powerful city like Argos, the historical enemy of
the Lacedaemonians, and a sister democracy.  Upon the defection of
Mantinea, the rest of Peloponnese at once began to agitate the
propriety of following her example, conceiving that the Mantineans
not have changed sides without good reason; besides which they were
angry with Lacedaemon among other reasons for having inserted in the
treaty with Athens that it should be consistent with their oaths for
both parties, Lacedaemonians and Athenians, to add to or take away
from it according to their discretion.  It was this clause that was
the real origin of the panic in Peloponnese, by exciting suspicions
of a Lacedaemonian and Athenian combination against their liberties:
any alteration should properly have been made conditional upon the
consent of the whole body of the allies.  With these apprehensions
there was a very general desire in each state to place itself in
alliance with Argos.

In the meantime the Lacedaemonians perceiving the agitation going on
in Peloponnese, and that Corinth was the author of it and was
herself about to enter into alliance with the Argives, sent
ambassadors thither in the hope of preventing what was in
contemplation.  They accused her of having brought it all about, and
told her that she could not desert Lacedaemon and become the ally of
Argos, without adding violation of her oaths to the crime which she
had already committed in not accepting the treaty with Athens, when it
had been expressly agreed that the decision of the majority of the
allies should be binding, unless the gods or heroes stood in the
way.  Corinth in her answer, delivered before those of her allies who
had like her refused to accept the treaty, and whom she had previously
invited to attend, refrained from openly stating the injuries she
complained of, such as the non-recovery of Sollium or Anactorium
from the Athenians, or any other point in which she thought she had
been prejudiced, but took shelter under the pretext that she could not
give up her Thracian allies, to whom her separate individual
security had been given, when they first rebelled with Potidaea, as
well as upon subsequent occasions.  She denied, therefore, that she
committed any violation of her oaths to the allies in not entering
into the treaty with Athens; having sworn upon the faith of the gods
to her Thracian friends, she could not honestly give them up.  Besides,
the expression was, "unless the gods or heroes stand in the way."
Now here, as it appeared to her, the gods stood in the way.  This was
what she said on the subject of her former oaths.  As to the Argive
alliance, she would confer with her friends and do whatever was right.
The Lacedaemonian envoys returning home, some Argive ambassadors who
happened to be in Corinth pressed her to conclude the alliance without
further delay, but were told to attend at the next congress to be held
at Corinth.

Immediately afterwards an Elean embassy arrived, and first making an
alliance with Corinth went on from thence to Argos, according to their
instructions, and became allies of the Argives, their country being
just then at enmity with Lacedaemon and Lepreum.  Some time back
there had been a war between the Lepreans and some of the Arcadians;
and the Eleans being called in by the former with the offer of half
their lands, had put an end to the war, and leaving the land in the
hands of its Leprean occupiers had imposed upon them the tribute of
a talent to the Olympian Zeus.  Till the Attic war this tribute was
paid by the Lepreans, who then took the war as an excuse for no longer
doing so, and upon the Eleans using force appealed to Lacedaemon.
The case was thus submitted to her arbitrament; but the Eleans,
suspecting the fairness of the tribunal, renounced the reference and
laid waste the Leprean territory.  The Lacedaemonians nevertheless
decided that the Lepreans were independent and the Eleans
aggressors, and as the latter did not abide by the arbitration, sent a
garrison of heavy infantry into Lepreum.  Upon this the Eleans, holding
that Lacedaemon had received one of their rebel subjects, put
forward the convention providing that each confederate should come out
of the Attic war in possession of what he had when he went into it,
and considering that justice had not been done them went over to the
Argives, and now made the alliance through their ambassadors, who
had been instructed for that purpose.  Immediately after them the
Corinthians and the Thracian Chalcidians became allies of Argos.
Meanwhile the Boeotians and Megarians, who acted together, remained
quiet, being left to do as they pleased by Lacedaemon, and thinking
that the Argive democracy would not suit so well with their
aristocratic government as the Lacedaemonian constitution.

About the same time in this summer Athens succeeded in reducing
Scione, put the adult males to death, and, making slaves of the
women and children, gave the land for the Plataeans to live in.  She
also brought back the Delians to Delos, moved by her misfortunes in
the field and by the commands of the god at Delphi.  Meanwhile the
Phocians and Locrians commenced hostilities.  The Corinthians and
Argives, being now in alliance, went to Tegea to bring about its
defection from Lacedaemon, seeing that, if so considerable a state
could be persuaded to join, all Peloponnese would be with them.  But
when the Tegeans said that they would do nothing against Lacedaemon,
the hitherto zealous Corinthians relaxed their activity, and began
to fear that none of the rest would now come over.  Still they went
to the Boeotians and tried to persuade them to alliance and a common
action generally with Argos and themselves, and also begged them to go
with them to Athens and obtain for them a ten days' truce similar to
that made between the Athenians and Boeotians not long after the fifty
years' treaty, and, in the event of the Athenians refusing, to throw
up the armistice, and not make any truce in future without Corinth.
These were the requests of the Corinthians.  The Boeotians stopped them
on the subject of the Argive alliance, but went with them to Athens,
where however they failed to obtain the ten days' truce; the
Athenian answer being that the Corinthians had truce already, as being
allies of Lacedaemon.  Nevertheless the Boeotians did not throw up
their ten days' truce, in spite of the prayers and reproaches of the
Corinthians for their breach of faith; and these last had to content
themselves with a de facto armistice with Athens.

The same summer the Lacedaemonians marched  into Arcadia with
their whole levy under Pleistoanax, son of Pausanias, king of
Lacedaemon, against the Parrhasians, who were subjects of Mantinea,
and a faction of whom had invited their aid.  They also meant to
demolish, if possible, the fort of Cypsela which the Mantineans had
built and garrisoned in the Parrhasian territory, to annoy the
district of Sciritis in Laconia.  The Lacedaemonians accordingly laid
waste the Parrhasian country, and the Mantineans, placing their town
in the hands of an Argive garrison, addressed themselves to the
defence of their confederacy, but being unable to save Cypsela or
the Parrhasian towns went back to Mantinea.  Meanwhile the
Lacedaemonians made the Parrhasians independent, razed the fortress,
and returned home.

The same summer the soldiers from Thrace who had gone out with
Brasidas came back, having been brought from thence after the treaty
by Clearidas; and the Lacedaemonians decreed that the Helots who had
fought with Brasidas should be free and allowed to live where they
liked, and not long afterwards settled them with the Neodamodes at
Lepreum, which is situated on the Laconian and Elean border;
Lacedaemon being at this time at enmity with Elis.  Those however of
the Spartans who had been taken prisoners on the island and had
surrendered their arms might, it was feared, suppose that they were to
be subjected to some degradation in consequence of their misfortune,
and so make some attempt at revolution, if left in possession of their
franchise.  These were therefore at once disfranchised, although some
of them were in office at the time, and thus placed under a disability
to take office, or buy and sell anything.  After some time, however,
the franchise was restored to them.

The same summer the Dians took Thyssus, a town on Acte by Athos in
alliance with Athens.  During the whole of this summer intercourse
between the Athenians and Peloponnesians continued, although each
party began to suspect the other directly after the treaty, because of
the places specified in it not being restored.  Lacedaemon, to whose
lot it had fallen to begin by restoring Amphipolis and the other
towns, had not done so.  She had equally failed to get the treaty
accepted by her Thracian allies, or by the Boeotians or the
Corinthians; although she was continually promising to unite with
Athens in compelling their compliance, if it were longer refused.
She also kept fixing a time at which those who still refused to come
in were to be declared enemies to both parties, but took care not to
bind herself by any written agreement.  Meanwhile the Athenians, seeing
none of these professions performed in fact, began to suspect the
honesty of her intentions, and consequently not only refused to comply
with her demands for Pylos, but also repented having given up the
prisoners from the island, and kept tight hold of the other places,
until Lacedaemon's part of the treaty should be fulfilled.  Lacedaemon,
on the other hand, said she had done what she could, having given up
the Athenian prisoners of war in her possession, evacuated Thrace, and
performed everything else in her power.  Amphipolis it was out of her
ability to restore; but she would endeavour to bring the Boeotians and
Corinthians into the treaty, to recover Panactum, and send home all
the Athenian prisoners of war in Boeotia.  Meanwhile she required
that Pylos should be restored, or at all events that the Messenians
and Helots should be withdrawn, as her troops had been from Thrace,
and the place garrisoned, if necessary, by the Athenians themselves.
After a number of different conferences held during the summer, she
succeeded in persuading Athens to withdraw from Pylos the Messenians
and the rest of the Helots and deserters from Laconia, who were
accordingly settled by her at Cranii in Cephallenia.  Thus during
this summer there was peace and intercourse between the two peoples.

Next winter, however, the ephors under whom the treaty had been made
were no longer in office, and some of their successors were directly
opposed to it.  Embassies now arrived from the Lacedaemonian
confederacy, and the Athenians, Boeotians, and Corinthians also
presented themselves at Lacedaemon, and after much discussion and no
agreement between them, separated for their several homes; when
Cleobulus and Xenares, the two ephors who were the most anxious to
break off the treaty, took advantage of this opportunity to
communicate privately with the Boeotians and Corinthians, and,
advising them to act as much as possible together, instructed the
former first to enter into alliance with Argos, and then try and bring
themselves and the Argives into alliance with Lacedaemon.  The
Boeotians would so be least likely to be compelled to come into the
Attic treaty; and the Lacedaemonians would prefer gaining the
friendship and alliance of Argos even at the price of the hostility of
Athens and the rupture of the treaty.  The Boeotians knew that an
honourable friendship with Argos had been long the desire of
Lacedaemon; for the Lacedaemonians believed that this would
considerably facilitate the conduct of the war outside Peloponnese.
Meanwhile they begged the Boeotians to place Panactum in her hands
in order that she might, if possible, obtain Pylos in exchange for it,
and so be more in a position to resume hostilities with Athens.

After receiving these instructions for their governments from
Xenares and Cleobulus and their friends at Lacedaemon, the Boeotians
and Corinthians departed.  On their way home they were joined by two
persons high in office at Argos, who had waited for them on the
road, and who now sounded them upon the possibility of the Boeotians
joining the Corinthians, Eleans, and Mantineans in becoming the allies
of Argos, in the idea that if this could be effected they would be
able, thus united, to make peace or war as they pleased either against
Lacedaemon or any other power.  The Boeotian envoys were were pleased
at thus hearing themselves accidentally asked to do what their friends
at Lacedaemon had told them; and the two Argives perceiving that their
proposal was agreeable, departed with a promise to send ambassadors to
the Boeotians.  On their arrival the Boeotians reported to the
Boeotarchs what had been said to them at Lacedaemon and also by the
Argives who had met them, and the Boeotarchs, pleased with the idea,
embraced it with the more eagerness from the lucky coincidence of
Argos soliciting the very thing wanted by their friends at Lacedaemon.
Shortly afterwards ambassadors appeared from Argos with the
proposals indicated; and the Boeotarchs approved of the terms and
dismissed the ambassadors with a promise to send envoys to Argos to
negotiate the alliance.

In the meantime it was decided by the Boeotarchs, the Corinthians,
the Megarians, and the envoys from Thrace first to interchange oaths
together to give help to each other whenever it was required and not
to make war or peace except in common; after which the Boeotians and
Megarians, who acted together, should make the alliance with Argos.
But before the oaths were taken the Boeotarchs communicated these
proposals to the four councils of the Boeotians, in whom the supreme
power resides, and advised them to interchange oaths with all such
cities as should be willing to enter into a defensive league with
the Boeotians.  But the members of the Boeotian councils refused
their assent to the proposal, being afraid of offending Lacedaemon
by entering into a league with the deserter Corinth; the Boeotarchs
not having acquainted them with what had passed at Lacedaemon and with
the advice given by Cleobulus and Xenares and the Boeotian partisans
there, namely, that they should become allies of Corinth and Argos
as a preliminary to a junction with Lacedaemon; fancying that, even if
they should say nothing about this, the councils would not vote
against what had been decided and advised by the Boeotarchs.  This
difficulty arising, the Corinthians and the envoys from Thrace
departed without anything having been concluded; and the Boeotarchs,
who had previously intended after carrying this to try and effect
the alliance with Argos, now omitted to bring the Argive question
before the councils, or to send to Argos the envoys whom they had
promised; and a general coldness and delay ensued in the matter.

In this same winter Mecyberna was assaulted and taken by the
Olynthians, having an Athenian garrison inside it.

All this while negotiations had been going on between the
Athenians and Lacedaemonians about the conquests still retained by
each, and Lacedaemon, hoping that if Athens were to get back
Panactum from the Boeotians she might herself recover Pylos, now
sent an embassy to the Boeotians, and begged them to place Panactum
and their Athenian prisoners in her hands, in order that she might
exchange them for Pylos.  This the Boeotians refused to do, unless
Lacedaemon made a separate alliance with them as she had done with
Athens.  Lacedaemon knew that this would be a breach of faith to
Athens, as it had been agreed that neither of them should make peace
or war without the other; yet wishing to obtain Panactum which she
hoped to exchange for Pylos, and the party who pressed for the
dissolution of the treaty strongly affecting the Boeotian
connection, she at length concluded the alliance just as winter gave
way to spring; and Panactum was instantly razed.  And so the eleventh
year of the war ended.

In the first days of the summer following, the Argives, seeing
that the promised ambassadors from Boeotia did not arrive, and that
Panactum was being demolished, and that a separate alliance had been
concluded between the Boeotians and Lacedaemonians, began to be afraid
that Argos might be left alone, and all the confederacy go over to
Lacedaemon.  They fancied that the Boeotians had been persuaded by
the Lacedaemonians to raze Panactum and to enter into the treaty
with the Athenians, and that Athens was privy to this arrangement, and
even her alliance, therefore, no longer open to them--a resource
which they had always counted upon, by reason of the dissensions
existing, in the event of the noncontinuance of their treaty with
Lacedaemon.  In this strait the Argives, afraid that, as the result
of refusing to renew the treaty with Lacedaemon and of aspiring to the
supremacy in Peloponnese, they would have the Lacedaemonians, Tegeans,
Boeotians, and Athenians on their hands all at once, now hastily
sent off Eustrophus and Aeson, who seemed the persons most likely to
be acceptable, as envoys to Lacedaemon, with the view of making as
good a treaty as they could with the Lacedaemonians, upon such terms
as could be got, and being left in peace.

Having reached Lacedaemon, their ambassadors proceeded to
negotiate the terms of the proposed treaty.  What the Argives first
demanded was that they might be allowed to refer to the arbitration of
some state or private person the question of the Cynurian land, a
piece of frontier territory about which they have always been
disputing, and which contains the towns of Thyrea and Anthene, and
is occupied by the Lacedaemonians.  The Lacedaemonians at first said
that they could not allow this point to be discussed, but were ready
to conclude upon the old terms.  Eventually, however, the Argive
ambassadors succeeded in obtaining from them this concession: For
the present there was to be a truce for fifty years, but it should
be competent for either party, there being neither plague nor war in
Lacedaemon or Argos, to give a formal challenge and decide the
question of this territory by battle, as on a former occasion, when
both sides claimed the victory; pursuit not being allowed beyond the
frontier of Argos or Lacedaemon.  The Lacedaemonians at first thought
this mere folly; but at last, anxious at any cost to have the
friendship of Argos they agreed to the terms demanded, and reduced
them to writing.  However, before any of this should become binding,
the ambassadors were to return to Argos and communicate with their
people and, in the event of their approval, to come at the feast of
the Hyacinthia and take the oaths.

The envoys returned accordingly.  In the meantime, while the Argives
were engaged in these negotiations, the Lacedaemonian ambassadors--
Andromedes, Phaedimus, and Antimenidas--who were to receive
the prisoners from the Boeotians and restore them and Panactum to
the Athenians, found that the Boeotians had themselves razed Panactum,
upon the plea that oaths had been anciently exchanged between their
people and the Athenians, after a dispute on the subject to the effect
that neither should inhabit the place, but that they should graze it
in common.  As for the Athenian prisoners of war in the hands of the
Boeotians, these were delivered over to Andromedes and his colleagues,
and by them conveyed to Athens and given back.  The envoys at the
same time announced the razing of Panactum, which to them seemed as
good as its restitution, as it would no longer lodge an enemy of
Athens.  This announcement was received with great indignation by the
Athenians, who thought that the Lacedaemonians had played them
false, both in the matter of the demolition of Panactum, which ought
to have been restored to them standing, and in having, as they now
heard, made a separate alliance with the Boeotians, in spite of
their previous promise to join Athens in compelling the adhesion of
those who refused to accede to the treaty.  The Athenians also
considered the other points in which Lacedaemon had failed in her
compact, and thinking that they had been overreached, gave an angry
answer to the ambassadors and sent them away.

The breach between the Lacedaemonians and Athenians having gone thus
far, the party at Athens, also, who wished to cancel the treaty,
immediately put themselves in motion.  Foremost amongst these was
Alcibiades, son of Clinias, a man yet young in years for any other
Hellenic city, but distinguished by the splendour of his ancestry.
Alcibiades thought the Argive alliance really preferable, not that
personal pique had not also a great deal to do with his opposition; he
being offended with the Lacedaemonians for having negotiated the
treaty through Nicias and Laches, and having overlooked him on account
of his youth, and also for not having shown him the respect due to the
ancient connection of his family with them as their proxeni, which,
renounced by his grandfather, he had lately himself thought to renew
by his attentions to their prisoners taken in the island.  Being
thus, as he thought, slighted on all hands, he had in the first
instance spoken against the treaty, saying that the Lacedaemonians
were not to be trusted, but that they only treated, in order to be
enabled by this means to crush Argos, and afterwards to attack
Athens alone; and now, immediately upon the above occurring, he sent
privately to the Argives, telling them to come as quickly as
possible to Athens, accompanied by the Mantineans and Eleans, with
proposals of alliance; as the moment was propitious and he himself
would do all he could to help them.

Upon receiving this message and discovering that the Athenians,
far from being privy to the Boeotian alliance, were involved in a
serious quarrel with the Lacedaemonians, the Argives paid no further
attention to the embassy which they had just sent to Lacedaemon on the
subject of the treaty, and began to incline rather towards the
Athenians, reflecting that, in the event of war, they would thus
have on their side a city that was not only an ancient ally of
Argos, but a sister democracy and very powerful at sea.  They
accordingly at once sent ambassadors to Athens to treat for an
alliance, accompanied by others from Elis and Mantinea.

At the same time arrived in haste from Lacedaemon an embassy
consisting of persons reputed well disposed towards the
Athenians--Philocharidas, Leon, and Endius--for fear that the
Athenians in their irritation might conclude alliance with the
Argives, and also to ask back Pylos in exchange for Panactum, and in
defence of the alliance with the Boeotians to plead that it had not
been made to hurt the Athenians.  Upon the envoys speaking in the
senate upon these points, and stating that they had come with full
powers to settle all others at issue between them, Alcibiades became
afraid that, if they were to repeat these statements to the popular
assembly, they might gain the multitude, and the Argive alliance might
be rejected, and accordingly had recourse to the following
stratagem.  He persuaded the Lacedaemonians by a solemn assurance
that if they would say nothing of their full powers in the assembly,
he would give back Pylos to them (himself, the present opponent of its
restitution, engaging to obtain this from the Athenians), and would
settle the other points at issue.  His plan was to detach them from
Nicias and to disgrace them before the people, as being without
sincerity in their intentions, or even common consistency in their
language, and so to get the Argives, Eleans, and Mantineans taken into
alliance.  This plan proved successful.  When the envoys appeared before
the people, and upon the question being put to them, did not say as
they had said in the senate, that they had come with full powers,
the Athenians lost all patience, and carried away by Alcibiades, who
thundered more loudly than ever against the Lacedaemonians, were ready
instantly to introduce the Argives and their companions and to take
them into alliance.  An earthquake, however, occurring, before anything
definite had been done, this assembly was adjourned.

In the assembly held the next day, Nicias, in spite of the
Lacedaemonians having been deceived themselves, and having allowed him
to be deceived also in not admitting that they had come with full
powers, still maintained that it was best to be friends with the
Lacedaemonians, and, letting the Argive proposals stand over, to
send once more to Lacedaemon and learn her intentions.  The adjournment
of the war could only increase their own prestige and injure that of
their rivals; the excellent state of their affairs making it their
interest to preserve this prosperity as long as possible, while
those of Lacedaemon were so desperate that the sooner she could try
her fortune again the better.  He succeeded accordingly in persuading
them to send ambassadors, himself being among the number, to invite
the Lacedaemonians, if they were really sincere, to restore Panactum
intact with Amphipolis, and to abandon their alliance with the
Boeotians (unless they consented to accede to the treaty), agreeably
to the stipulation which forbade either to treat without the other.
The ambassadors were also directed to say that the Athenians, had they
wished to play false, might already have made alliance with the
Argives, who were indeed come to Athens for that very purpose, and
went off furnished with instructions as to any other complaints that
the Athenians had to make.  Having reached Lacedaemon, they
communicated their instructions, and concluded by telling the
Lacedaemonians that unless they gave up their alliance with the
Boeotians, in the event of their not acceding to the treaty, the
Athenians for their part would ally themselves with the Argives and
their friends.  The Lacedaemonians, however, refused to give up the
Boeotian alliance--the party of Xenares the ephor, and such as shared
their view, carrying the day upon this point--but renewed the oaths
at the request of Nicias, who feared to return without having
accomplished anything and to be disgraced; as was indeed his fate,
he being held the author of the treaty with Lacedaemon.  When he
returned, and the Athenians heard that nothing had been done at
Lacedaemon, they flew into a passion, and deciding that faith had
not been kept with them, took advantage of the presence of the Argives
and their allies, who had been introduced by Alcibiades, and made a
treaty and alliance with them upon the terms following:

The Athenians, Argives, Mantineans, and Eleans, acting for
themselves and the allies in their respective empires, made a treaty
for a hundred years, to be without fraud or hurt by land and by sea.

1.  It shall not be lawful to carry on war, either for the Argives,
Eleans, Mantineans, and their allies, against the Athenians, or the
allies in the Athenian empire: or for the Athenians and their allies
against the Argives, Eleans, Mantineans, or their allies, in any way
or means whatsoever.

The Athenians, Argives, Eleans, and Mantineans shall be allies for a
hundred years upon the terms following:

2.  If an enemy invade the country of the Athenians, the Argives,
Eleans, and Mantineans shall go to the relief of Athens, according
as the Athenians may require by message, in such way as they most
effectually can, to the best of their power.  But if the invader be
gone after plundering the territory, the offending state shall be
the enemy of the Argives, Mantineans, Eleans, and Athenians, and war
shall be made against it by all these cities: and no one of the cities
shall be able to make peace with that state, except all the above
cities agree to do so.

3.  Likewise the Athenians shall go to the relief of Argos,
Mantinea, and Elis, if an enemy invade the country of Elis,
Mantinea, or Argos, according as the above cities may require by
message, in such way as they most effectually can, to the best of
their power.  But if the invader be gone after plundering the
territory, the state offending shall be the enemy of the Athenians,
Argives, Mantineans, and Eleans, and war shall be made against it by
all these cities, and peace may not be made with that state except all
the above cities agree to it.

4.  No armed force shall be allowed to pass for hostile purposes
through the country of the powers contracting, or of the allies in
their respective empires, or to go by sea, except all the
cities--that is to say, Athens, Argos, Mantinea, and Elis--vote for
such passage.

5.  The relieving troops shall be maintained by the city sending
them for thirty days from their arrival in the city that has
required them, and upon their return in the same way: if their
services be desired for a longer period, the city that sent for them
shall maintain them, at the rate of three Aeginetan obols per day
for a heavy-armed soldier, archer, or light soldier, and an
Aeginetan drachma for a trooper.

6.  The city sending for the troops shall have the command when the
war is in its own country: but in case of the cities resolving upon
a joint expedition the command shall be equally divided among all
the cities.

7.  The treaty shall be sworn to by the Athenians for themselves
and their allies, by the Argives, Mantineans, Eleans, and their
allies, by each state individually.  Each shall swear the oath most
binding in his country over full-grown victims: the oath being as
follows:

"I STAND BY THE ALLIANCE AND ITS ARTICLES, JUSTLY, INNOCENTLY, AND
SINCERELY, AND I WILL NOT TRANSGRESS THE SAME IN ANY WAY OR MEANS
WHATSOEVER."

The oath shall be taken at Athens by the Senate and the magistrates,
the Prytanes administering it: at Argos by the Senate, the Eighty, and the
Artynae, the Eighty administering it: at Mantinea by the Demiurgi, the
Senate, and the other magistrates, the Theori and Polemarchs
administering it: at Elis by the Demiurgi, the magistrates, and the
Six Hundred, the Demiurgi and the Thesmophylaces administering it.  The
oaths shall be renewed by the Athenians going to Elis, Mantinea, and
Argos thirty days before the Olympic games: by the Argives,
Mantineans, and Eleans going to Athens ten days before the great feast
of the Panathenaea.  The articles of the treaty, the oaths, and the
alliance shall be inscribed on a stone pillar by the Athenians in
the citadel, by the Argives in the market-place, in the temple of
Apollo: by the Mantineans in the temple of Zeus, in the
market-place: and a brazen pillar shall be erected jointly by them
at the Olympic games now at hand.  Should the above cities see good
to make any addition in these articles, whatever all the above
cities shall agree upon, after consulting together, shall be binding.

Although the treaty and alliances were thus concluded, still the
treaty between the Lacedaemonians and Athenians was not renounced by
either party.  Meanwhile Corinth, although the ally of the Argives, did
not accede to the new treaty, any more than she had done to the
alliance, defensive and offensive, formed before this between the
Eleans, Argives, and Mantineans, when she declared herself content
with the first alliance, which was defensive only, and which bound
them to help each other, but not to join in attacking any.  The
Corinthians thus stood aloof from their allies, and again turned their
thoughts towards Lacedaemon.

At the Olympic games which were held this summer, and in which the
Arcadian Androsthenes was victor the first time in the wrestling and
boxing, the Lacedaemonians were excluded from the temple by the
Eleans, and thus prevented from sacrificing or contending, for
having refused to pay the fine specified in the Olympic law imposed
upon them by the Eleans, who alleged that they had attacked Fort
Phyrcus, and sent heavy infantry of theirs into Lepreum during the
Olympic truce.  The amount of the fine was two thousand minae, two
for each heavy-armed soldier, as the law prescribes.  The
Lacedaemonians sent envoys, and pleaded that the imposition was
unjust; saying that the truce had not yet been proclaimed at
Lacedaemon when the heavy infantry were sent off.  But the Eleans
affirmed that the armistice with them had already begun (they proclaim
it first among themselves), and that the aggression of the
Lacedaemonians had taken them by surprise while they were living
quietly as in time of peace, and not expecting anything.  Upon this the
Lacedaemonians submitted, that if the Eleans really believed that they
had committed an aggression, it was useless after that to proclaim the
truce at Lacedaemon; but they had proclaimed it notwithstanding, as
believing nothing of the kind, and from that moment the Lacedaemonians
had made no attack upon their country.  Nevertheless the Eleans adhered
to what they had said, that nothing would persuade them that an
aggression had not been committed; if, however, the Lacedaemonians
would restore Lepreum, they would give up their own share of the money
and pay that of the god for them.

As this proposal was not accepted, the Eleans tried a second.
Instead of restoring Lepreum, if this was objected to, the
Lacedaemonians should ascend the altar of the Olympian Zeus, as they
were so anxious to have access to the temple, and swear before the
Hellenes that they would surely pay the fine at a later day.  This
being also refused, the Lacedaemonians were excluded from the
temple, the sacrifice, and the games, and sacrificed at home; the
Lepreans being the only other Hellenes who did not attend.  Still the
Eleans were afraid of the Lacedaemonians sacrificing by force, and
kept guard with a heavy-armed company of their young men; being also
joined by a thousand Argives, the same number of Mantineans, and by
some Athenian cavalry who stayed at Harpina during the feast.  Great
fears were felt in the assembly of the Lacedaemonians coming in
arms, especially after Lichas, son of Arcesilaus, a Lacedaemonian, had
been scourged on the course by the umpires; because, upon his horses
being the winners, and the Boeotian people being proclaimed the victor
on account of his having no right to enter, he came forward on the
course and crowned the charioteer, in order to show that the chariot
was his.  After this incident all were more afraid than ever, and
firmly looked for a disturbance: the Lacedaemonians, however, kept
quiet, and let the feast pass by, as we have seen.  After the Olympic
games, the Argives and the allies repaired to Corinth to invite her to
come over to them.  There they found some Lacedaemonian envoys; and a
long discussion ensued, which after all ended in nothing, as an
earthquake occurred, and they dispersed to their different homes.

Summer was now over.  The winter following a battle took place
between the Heracleots in Trachinia and the Aenianians, Dolopians,
Malians, and certain of the Thessalians, all tribes bordering on and
hostile to the town, which directly menaced their country.
Accordingly, after having opposed and harassed it from its very
foundation by every means in their power, they now in this battle
defeated the Heracleots, Xenares, son of Cnidis, their Lacedaemonian
commander, being among the slain.  Thus the winter ended and the
twelfth year of this war ended also.  After the battle, Heraclea was so
terribly reduced that in the first days of the summer following the
Boeotians occupied the place and sent away the Lacedaemonian
Agesippidas for misgovernment, fearing that the town might be taken by
the Athenians while the Lacedaemonians were distracted with the
affairs of Peloponnese.  The Lacedaemonians, nevertheless, were
offended with them for what they had done.

The same summer Alcibiades, son of Clinias, now one of the
generals at Athens, in concert with the Argives and the allies, went
into Peloponnese with a few Athenian heavy infantry and archers and
some of the allies in those parts whom he took up as he passed, and
with this army marched here and there through Peloponnese, and settled
various matters connected with the alliance, and among other things
induced the Patrians to carry their walls down to the sea, intending
himself also to build a fort near the Achaean Rhium.  However, the
Corinthians and Sicyonians, and all others who would have suffered
by its being built, came up and hindered him.

The same summer war broke out between the Epidaurians and Argives.
The pretext was that the Epidaurians did not send an offering for
their pasture-land to Apollo Pythaeus, as they were bound to do, the
Argives having the chief management of the temple; but, apart from
this pretext, Alcibiades and the Argives were determined, if possible,
to gain possession of Epidaurus, and thus to ensure the neutrality
of Corinth and give the Athenians a shorter passage for their
reinforcements from Aegina than if they had to sail round Scyllaeum.
The Argives accordingly prepared to invade Epidaurus by themselves, to
exact the offering.

About the same time the Lacedaemonians marched out with all their
people to Leuctra upon their frontier, opposite to Mount Lycaeum,
under the command of Agis, son of Archidamus, without any one
knowing their destination, not even the cities that sent the
contingents.  The sacrifices, however, for crossing the frontier not
proving propitious, the Lacedaemonians returned home themselves, and
sent word to the allies to be ready to march after the month
ensuing, which happened to be the month of Carneus, a holy time for
the Dorians.  Upon the retreat of the Lacedaemonians the Argives
marched out on the last day but three of the month before Carneus, and
keeping this as the day during the whole time that they were out,
invaded and plundered Epidaurus.  The Epidaurians summoned their allies
to their aid, some of whom pleaded the month as an excuse; others came
as far as the frontier of Epidaurus and there remained inactive.

While the Argives were in Epidaurus embassies from the cities
assembled at Mantinea, upon the invitation of the Athenians.  The
conference having begun, the Corinthian Euphamidas said that their
actions did not agree with their words; while they were sitting
deliberating about peace, the Epidaurians and their allies and the
Argives were arrayed against each other in arms; deputies from each
party should first go and separate the armies, and then the talk about
peace might be resumed.  In compliance with this suggestion, they
went and brought back the Argives from Epidaurus, and afterwards
reassembled, but without succeeding any better in coming to a
conclusion; and the Argives a second time invaded Epidaurus and
plundered the country.  The Lacedaemonians also marched out to
Caryae; but the frontier sacrifices again proving unfavourable, they
went back again, and the Argives, after ravaging about a third of
the Epidaurian territory, returned home.  Meanwhile a thousand Athenian
heavy infantry had come to their aid under the command of
Alcibiades, but finding that the Lacedaemonian expedition was at an
end, and that they were no longer wanted, went back again.

So passed the summer.  The next winter the Lacedaemonians managed
to elude the vigilance of the Athenians, and sent in a garrison of
three hundred men to Epidaurus, under the command of Agesippidas.  Upon
this the Argives went to the Athenians and complained of their
having allowed an enemy to pass by sea, in spite of the clause in
the treaty by which the allies were not to allow an enemy to pass
through their country.  Unless, therefore, they now put the
Messenians and Helots in Pylos to annoy the Lacedaemonians, they,
the Argives, should consider that faith had not been kept with them.
The Athenians were persuaded by Alcibiades to inscribe at the bottom
of the Laconian pillar that the Lacedaemonians had not kept their
oaths, and to convey the Helots at Cranii to Pylos to plunder the
country; but for the rest they remained quiet as before.  During this
winter hostilities went on between the Argives and Epidaurians,
without any pitched battle taking place, but only forays and
ambuscades, in which the losses were small and fell now on one side
and now on the other.  At the close of the winter, towards the
beginning of spring, the Argives went with scaling ladders to
Epidaurus, expecting to find it left unguarded on account of the war
and to be able to take it by assault, but returned unsuccessful.  And
the winter ended, and with it the thirteenth year of the war ended
also.

In the middle of the next summer the Lacedaemonians, seeing the
Epidaurians, their allies, in distress, and the rest of Peloponnese
either in revolt or disaffected, concluded that it was high time for
them to interfere if they wished to stop the progress of the evil, and
accordingly with their full force, the Helots included, took the field
against Argos, under the command of Agis, son of Archidamus, king of
the Lacedaemonians.  The Tegeans and the other Arcadian allies of
Lacedaemon joined in the expedition.  The allies from the rest of
Peloponnese and from outside mustered at Phlius; the Boeotians with
five thousand heavy infantry and as many light troops, and five
hundred horse and the same number of dismounted troopers; the
Corinthians with two thousand heavy infantry; the rest more or less as
might happen; and the Phliasians with all their forces, the army being
in their country.

The preparations of the Lacedaemonians from the first had been known
to the Argives, who did not, however, take the field until the enemy
was on his road to join the rest at Phlius.  Reinforced by the
Mantineans with their allies, and by three thousand Elean heavy
infantry, they advanced and fell in with the Lacedaemonians at
Methydrium in Arcadia.  Each party took up its position upon a hill,
and the Argives prepared to engage the Lacedaemonians while they
were alone; but Agis eluded them by breaking up his camp in the night,
and proceeded to join the rest of the allies at Phlius.  The Argives
discovering this at daybreak, marched first to Argos and then to the
Nemean road, by which they expected the Lacedaemonians and their
allies would come down.  However, Agis, instead of taking this road
as they expected, gave the Lacedaemonians, Arcadians, and
Epidaurians their orders, and went along another difficult road, and
descended into the plain of Argos.  The Corinthians, Pellenians, and
Phliasians marched by another steep road; while the Boeotians,
Megarians, and Sicyonians had instructions to come down by the
Nemean road where the Argives were posted, in order that, if the enemy
advanced into the plain against the troops of Agis, they might fall
upon his rear with their cavalry.  These dispositions concluded, Agis
invaded the plain and began to ravage Saminthus and other places.

Discovering this, the Argives came up from Nemea, day having now
dawned.  On their way they fell in with the troops of the Phliasians
and Corinthians, and killed a few of the Phliasians and had perhaps
a few more of their own men killed by the Corinthians.  Meanwhile the
Boeotians, Megarians, and Sicyonians, advancing upon Nemea according
to their instructions, found the Argives no longer there, as they
had gone down on seeing their property ravaged, and were now forming
for battle, the Lacedaemonians imitating their example.  The Argives
were now completely surrounded; from the plain the Lacedaemonians
and their allies shut them off from their city; above them were the
Corinthians, Phliasians, and Pellenians; and on the side of Nemea
the Boeotians, Sicyonians, and Megarians.  Meanwhile their army was
without cavalry, the Athenians alone among the allies not having yet
arrived.  Now the bulk of the Argives and their allies did not see
the danger of their position, but thought that they could not have a
fairer field, having intercepted the Lacedaemonians in their own
country and close to the city.  Two men, however, in the Argive army,
Thrasylus, one of the five generals, and Alciphron, the
Lacedaemonian proxenus, just as the armies were upon the point of
engaging, went and held a parley with Agis and urged him not to
bring on a battle, as the Argives were ready to refer to fair and
equal arbitration whatever complaints the Lacedaemonians might have
against them, and to make a treaty and live in peace in future.

The Argives who made these statements did so upon their own
authority, not by order of the people, and Agis on his accepted
their proposals, and without himself either consulting the majority,
simply communicated the matter to a single individual, one of the high
officers accompanying the expedition, and granted the Argives a
truce for four months, in which to fulfil their promises; after
which he immediately led off the army without giving any explanation
to any of the other allies.  The Lacedaemonians and allies followed
their general out of respect for the law, but amongst themselves
loudly blamed Agis for going away from so fair a field (the enemy
being hemmed in on every side by infantry and cavalry) without
having done anything worthy of their strength.  Indeed this was by
far the finest Hellenic army ever yet brought together; and it
should have been seen while it was still united at Nemea, with the
Lacedaemonians in full force, the Arcadians, Boeotians, Corinthians,
Sicyonians, Pellenians, Phliasians and Megarians, and all these the
flower of their respective populations, thinking themselves a match
not merely for the Argive confederacy, but for another such added to
it.  The army thus retired blaming Agis, and returned every man to
his home.  The Argives however blamed still more loudly the persons who
had concluded the truce without consulting the people, themselves
thinking that they had let escape with the Lacedaemonians an
opportunity such as they should never see again; as the struggle would
have been under the walls of their city, and by the side of many and
brave allies.  On their return accordingly they began to stone
Thrasylus in the bed of the Charadrus, where they try all military
causes before entering the city.  Thrasylus fled to the altar, and so
saved his life; his property however they confiscated.

After this arrived a thousand Athenian heavy infantry and three
hundred horse, under the command of Laches and Nicostratus; whom the
Argives, being nevertheless loath to break the truce with the
Lacedaemonians, begged to depart, and refused to bring before the
people, to whom they had a communication to make, until compelled to
do so by the entreaties of the Mantineans and Eleans, who were still
at Argos.  The Athenians, by the mouth of Alcibiades their ambassador
there present, told the Argives and the allies that they had no
right to make a truce at all without the consent of their fellow
confederates, and now that the Athenians had arrived so opportunely
the war ought to be resumed.  These arguments proving successful with
the allies, they immediately marched upon Orchomenos, all except the
Argives, who, although they had consented like the rest, stayed behind
at first, but eventually joined the others.  They now all sat down
and besieged Orchomenos, and made assaults upon it; one of their
reasons for desiring to gain this place being that hostages from
Arcadia had been lodged there by the Lacedaemonians.  The Orchomenians,
alarmed at the weakness of their wall and the numbers of the enemy,
and at the risk they ran of perishing before relief arrived,
capitulated upon condition of joining the league, of giving hostages
of their own to the Mantineans, and giving up those lodged with them
by the Lacedaemonians.  Orchomenos thus secured, the allies now
consulted as to which of the remaining places they should attack next.
The Eleans were urgent for Lepreum; the Mantineans for Tegea; and
the Argives and Athenians giving their support to the Mantineans,
the Eleans went home in a rage at their not having voted for
Lepreum; while the rest of the allies made ready at Mantinea for going
against Tegea, which a party inside had arranged to put into their
hands.

Meanwhile the Lacedaemonians, upon their return from Argos after
concluding the four months' truce, vehemently blamed Agis for not
having subdued Argos, after an opportunity such as they thought they
had never had before; for it was no easy matter to bring so many and
so good allies together.  But when the news arrived of the capture of
Orchomenos, they became more angry than ever, and, departing from
all precedent, in the heat of the moment had almost decided to raze
his house, and to fine him ten thousand drachmae.  Agis however
entreated them to do none of these things, promising to atone for
his fault by good service in the field, failing which they might
then do to him whatever they pleased; and they accordingly abstained
from razing his house or fining him as they had threatened to do,
and now made a law, hitherto unknown at Lacedaemon, attaching to him
ten Spartans as counsellors, without whose consent he should have no
power to lead an army out of the city.

At this juncture arrived word from their friends in Tegea that,
unless they speedily appeared, Tegea would go over from them to the
Argives and their allies, if it had not gone over already.  Upon this
news a force marched out from Lacedaemon, of the Spartans and Helots
and all their people, and that instantly and upon a scale never before
witnessed.  Advancing to Orestheum in Maenalia, they directed the
Arcadians in their league to follow close after them to Tegea, and,
going on themselves as far as Orestheum, from thence sent back the
sixth part of the Spartans, consisting of the oldest and youngest men,
to guard their homes, and with the rest of their army arrived at
Tegea; where their Arcadian allies soon after joined them.  Meanwhile
they sent to Corinth, to the Boeotians, the Phocians, and Locrians,
with orders to come up as quickly as possible to Mantinea.  These had
but short notice; and it was not easy except all together, and after
waiting for each other, to pass through the enemy's country, which lay
right across and blocked up the line of communication.  Nevertheless
they made what haste they could.  Meanwhile the Lacedaemonians with the
Arcadian allies that had joined them, entered the territory of
Mantinea, and encamping near the temple of Heracles began to plunder
the country.

Here they were seen by the Argives and their allies, who immediately
took up a strong and difficult position, and formed in order of
battle.  The Lacedaemonians at once advanced against them, and came
on within a stone's throw or javelin's cast, when one of the older
men, seeing the enemy's position to be a strong one, hallooed to
Agis that he was minded to cure one evil with another; meaning that he
wished to make amends for his retreat, which had been so much
blamed, from Argos, by his present untimely precipitation.  Meanwhile
Agis, whether in consequence of this halloo or of some sudden new idea
of his own, quickly led back his army without engaging, and entering
the Tegean territory, began to turn off into that of Mantinea the
water about which the Mantineans and Tegeans are always fighting, on
account of the extensive damage it does to whichever of the two
countries it falls into.  His object in this was to make the Argives
and their allies come down from the hill, to resist the diversion of
the water, as they would be sure to do when they knew of it, and
thus to fight the battle in the plain.  He accordingly stayed that
day where he was, engaged in turning off the water.  The Argives and
their allies were at first amazed at the sudden retreat of the enemy
after advancing so near, and did not know what to make of it; but when
he had gone away and disappeared, without their having stirred to
pursue him, they began anew to find fault with their generals, who had
not only let the Lacedaemonians get off before, when they were so
happily intercepted before Argos, but who now again allowed them to
run away, without any one pursuing them, and to escape at their
leisure while the Argive army was leisurely betrayed.
  The generals, half-stunned for the moment, afterwards led them
down from the hill, and went forward and encamped in the plain, with
the intention of attacking the enemy.

The next day the Argives and their allies formed in the order in
which they meant to fight, if they chanced to encounter the enemy; and
the Lacedaemonians returning from the water to their old encampment by
the temple of Heracles, suddenly saw their adversaries close in
front of them, all in complete order, and advanced from the hill.  A
shock like that of the present moment the Lacedaemonians do not ever
remember to have experienced: there was scant time for preparation, as
they instantly and hastily fell into their ranks, Agis, their king,
directing everything, agreeably to the law.  For when a king is in
the field all commands proceed from him: he gives the word to the
Polemarchs; they to the Lochages; these to the Pentecostyes; these
again to the Enomotarchs, and these last to the Enomoties.  In short
all orders required pass in the same way and quickly reach the troops;
as almost the whole Lacedaemonian army, save for a small part,
consists of officers under officers, and the care of what is to be
done falls upon many.

In this battle the left wing was composed of the Sciritae, who in
a Lacedaemonian army have always that post to themselves alone; next
to these were the soldiers of Brasidas from Thrace, and the Neodamodes
with them; then came the Lacedaemonians themselves, company after
company, with the Arcadians of Heraea at their side.  After these
were the Maenalians, and on the right wing the Tegeans with a few of
the Lacedaemonians at the extremity; their cavalry being posted upon
the two wings.  Such was the Lacedaemonian formation.  That of their
opponents was as follows: On the right were the Mantineans, the action
taking place in their country; next to them the allies from Arcadia;
after whom came the thousand picked men of the Argives, to whom the
state had given a long course of military training at the public
expense; next to them the rest of the Argives, and after them their
allies, the Cleonaeans and Orneans, and lastly the Athenians on the
extreme left, and lastly the Athenians on the extreme left, and
their own cavalry with them.

Such were the order and the forces of the two combatants.  The
Lacedaemonian army looked the largest; though as to putting down the
numbers of either host, or of the contingents composing it, I could
not do so with any accuracy.  Owing to the secrecy of their
government the number of the Lacedaemonians was not known, and men are
so apt to brag about the forces of their country that the estimate
of their opponents was not trusted.  The following calculation,
however, makes it possible to estimate the numbers of the
Lacedaemonians present upon this occasion.  There were seven
companies in the field without counting the Sciritae, who numbered six
hundred men: in each company there were four Pentecostyes, and in
the Pentecosty four Enomoties.  The first rank of the Enomoty was
composed of four soldiers: as to the depth, although they had not been
all drawn up alike, but as each captain chose, they were generally
ranged eight deep; the first rank along the whole line, exclusive of
the Sciritae, consisted of four hundred and forty-eight men.

The armies being now on the eve of engaging, each contingent
received some words of encouragement from its own commander.  The
Mantineans were, reminded that they were going to fight for their
country and to avoid returning to the experience of servitude after
having tasted that of empire; the Argives, that they would contend for
their ancient supremacy, to regain their once equal share of
Peloponnese of which they had been so long deprived, and to punish
an enemy and a neighbour for a thousand wrongs; the Athenians, of
the glory of gaining the honours of the day with so many and brave
allies in arms, and that a victory over the Lacedaemonians in
Peloponnese would cement and extend their empire, and would besides
preserve Attica from all invasions in future.  These were the
incitements addressed to the Argives and their allies.  The
Lacedaemonians meanwhile, man to man, and with their war-songs in
the ranks, exhorted each brave comrade to remember what he had
learnt before; well aware that the long training of action was of more
saving virtue than any brief verbal exhortation, though never so
well delivered.

After this they joined battle, the Argives and their allies
advancing with haste and fury, the Lacedaemonians slowly and to the
music of many flute-players--a standing institution in their army,
that has nothing to do with religion, but is meant to make them
advance evenly, stepping in time, without break their order, as
large armies are apt to do in the moment of engaging.

Just before the battle joined, King Agis resolved upon the following
manoeuvre.  All armies are alike in this: on going into action they get
forced out rather on their right wing, and one and the other overlap
with this adversary's left; because fear makes each man do his best to
shelter his unarmed side with the shield of the man next him on the
right, thinking that the closer the shields are locked together the
better will he be protected.  The man primarily responsible for this is
the first upon the right wing, who is always striving to withdraw from
the enemy his unarmed side; and the same apprehension makes the rest
follow him.  On the present occasion the Mantineans reached with
their wing far beyond the Sciritae, and the Lacedaemonians and Tegeans
still farther beyond the Athenians, as their army was the largest.
Agis, afraid of his left being surrounded, and thinking that the
Mantineans outflanked it too far, ordered the Sciritae and
Brasideans to move out from their place in the ranks and make the line
even with the Mantineans, and told the Polemarchs Hipponoidas and
Aristocles to fill up the gap thus formed, by throwing themselves into
it with two companies taken from the right wing; thinking that his
right would still be strong enough and to spare, and that the line
fronting the Mantineans would gain in solidity.

However, as he gave these orders in the moment of the onset, and
at short notice, it so happened that Aristocles and Hipponoidas
would not move over, for which offence they were afterwards banished
from Sparta, as having been guilty of cowardice; and the enemy
meanwhile closed before the Sciritae (whom Agis on seeing that the two
companies did not move over ordered to return to their place) had time
to fill up the breach in question.  Now it was, however, that the
Lacedaemonians, utterly worsted in respect of skill, showed themselves
as superior in point of courage.  As soon as they came to close
quarters with the enemy, the Mantinean right broke their Sciritae
and Brasideans, and, bursting in with their allies and the thousand
picked Argives into the unclosed breach in their line, cut up and
surrounded the Lacedaemonians, and drove them in full rout to the
wagons, slaying some of the older men on guard there.  But the
Lacedaemonians, worsted in this part of the field, with the rest of
their army, and especially the centre, where the three hundred
knights, as they are called, fought round King Agis, fell on the older
men of the Argives and the five companies so named, and on the
Cleonaeans, the Orneans, and the Athenians next them, and instantly
routed them; the greater number not even waiting to strike a blow, but
giving way the moment that they came on, some even being trodden under
foot, in their fear of being overtaken by their assailants.

The army of the Argives and their allies, having given way in this
quarter, was now completely cut in two, and the Lacedaemonian and
Tegean right simultaneously closing round the Athenians with the
troops that outflanked them, these last found themselves placed
between two fires, being surrounded on one side and already defeated
on the other.  Indeed they would have suffered more severely than any
other part of the army, but for the services of the cavalry which they
had with them.  Agis also on perceiving the distress of his left
opposed to the Mantineans and the thousand Argives, ordered all the
army to advance to the support of the defeated wing; and while this
took place, as the enemy moved past and slanted away from them, the
Athenians escaped at their leisure, and with them the beaten Argive
division.  Meanwhile the Mantineans and their allies and the picked
body of the Argives ceased to press the enemy, and seeing their
friends defeated and the Lacedaemonians in full advance upon them,
took to flight.  Many of the Mantineans perished; but the bulk of the
picked body of the Argives made good their escape.  The flight and
retreat, however, were neither hurried nor long; the Lacedaemonians
fighting long and stubbornly until the rout of their enemy, but that
once effected, pursuing for a short time and not far.

Such was the battle, as nearly as possible as I have described it;
the greatest that had occurred for a very long while among the
Hellenes, and joined by the most considerable states.  The
Lacedaemonians took up a position in front of the enemy's dead, and
immediately set up a trophy and stripped the slain; they took up their
own dead and carried them back to Tegea, where they buried them, and
restored those of the enemy under truce.  The Argives, Orneans, and
Cleonaeans had seven hundred killed; the Mantineans two hundred, and
the Athenians and Aeginetans also two hundred, with both their
generals.  On the side of the Lacedaemonians, the allies did not suffer
any loss worth speaking of: as to the Lacedaemonians themselves it was
difficult to learn the truth; it is said, however, that there were
slain about three hundred of them.

While the battle was impending, Pleistoanax, the other king, set out
with a reinforcement composed of the oldest and youngest men, and
got as far as Tegea, where he heard of the victory and went back
again.  The Lacedaemonians also sent and turned back the allies from
Corinth and from beyond the Isthmus, and returning themselves
dismissed their allies, and kept the Carnean holidays, which
happened to be at that time.  The imputations cast upon them by the
Hellenes at the time, whether of cowardice on account of the
disaster in the island, or of mismanagement and slowness generally,
were all wiped out by this single action: fortune, it was thought,
might have humbled them, but the men themselves were the same as ever.

The day before this battle, the Epidaurians with all their forces
invaded the deserted Argive territory, and cut off many of the
guards left there in the absence of the Argive army.  After the
battle three thousand Elean heavy infantry arriving to aid the
Mantineans, and a reinforcement of one thousand Athenians, all these
allies marched at once against Epidaurus, while the Lacedaemonians
were keeping the Carnea, and dividing the work among them began to
build a wall round the city.  The rest left off; but the Athenians
finished at once the part assigned to them round Cape Heraeum; and
having all joined in leaving a garrison in the fortification in
question, they returned to their respective cities.

Summer now came to an end.  In the first days of the next winter,
when the Carnean holidays were over, the Lacedaemonians took the
field, and arriving at Tegea sent on to Argos proposals of
accommodation.  They had before had a party in the town desirous of
overthrowing the democracy; and after the battle that had been fought,
these were now far more in a position to persuade the people to listen
to terms.  Their plan was first to make a treaty with the
Lacedaemonians, to be followed by an alliance, and after this to
fall upon the commons.  Lichas, son of Arcesilaus, the Argive proxenus,
accordingly arrived at Argos with two proposals from Lacedaemon, to
regulate the conditions of war or peace, according as they preferred
the one or the other.  After much discussion, Alcibiades happening to
be in the town, the Lacedaemonian party, who now ventured to act
openly, persuaded the Argives to accept the proposal for
accommodation; which ran as follows:

The assembly of the Lacedaemonians agrees to treat with the
Argives upon the terms following:

1.  The Argives shall restore to the Orchomenians their children,
and to the Maenalians their men, and shall restore the men they have
in Mantinea to the Lacedaemonians.

2.  They shall evacuate Epidaurus, and raze the fortification
there.  If the Athenians refuse to withdraw from Epidaurus, they
shall be declared enemies of the Argives and of the Lacedaemonians,
and of the allies of the Lacedaemonians and the allies of the Argives.

3.  If the Lacedaemonians have any children in their custody,
they shall restore them every one to his city.

4.  As to the offering to the god, the Argives, if they wish, shall
impose an oath upon the Epidaurians, but, if not, they shall swear
it themselves.

5.  All the cities in Peloponnese, both small and great, shall be
independent according to the customs of their country.

6.  If any of the powers outside Peloponnese invade Peloponnesian
territory, the parties contracting shall unite to repel them, on
such terms as they may agree upon, as being most fair for the
Peloponnesians.

7.  All allies of the Lacedaemonians outside Peloponnese shall be
on the same footing as the Lacedaemonians, and the allies of the
Argives shall be on the same footing as the Argives, being left in
enjoyment of their own possessions.

8.  This treaty shall be shown to the allies, and shall be concluded,
if they approve; if the allies think fit, they may send the treaty
to be considered at home.

The Argives began by accepting this proposal, and the
Lacedaemonian army returned home from Tegea.  After this intercourse
was renewed between them, and not long afterwards the same party
contrived that the Argives should give up the league with the
Mantineans, Eleans, and Athenians, and should make a treaty and
alliance with the Lacedaemonians; which was consequently done upon the
terms following:

The Lacedaemonians and Argives agree to a treaty and alliance
for fifty years upon the terms following:

1.  All disputes shall be decided by fair and impartial
arbitration, agreeably to the customs of the two countries.

2.  The rest of the cities in Peloponnese may be included in this
treaty and alliance, as independent and sovereign, in full enjoyment
of what they possess, all disputes being decided by fair and impartial
arbitration, agreeably to the customs of the said cities.

3.  All allies of the Lacedaemonians outside Peloponnese shall be
upon the same footing as the Lacedaemonians themselves, and the allies
of the Argives shall be upon the same footing as the Argives
themselves, continuing to enjoy what they possess.

4.  If it shall be anywhere necessary to make an expedition in
common, the Lacedaemonians and Argives shall consult upon it and
decide, as may be most fair for the allies.

5.  If any of the cities, whether inside or outside Peloponnese,
have a question whether of frontiers or otherwise, it must be settled,
but if one allied city should have a quarrel with another allied city,
it must be referred to some third city thought impartial by both
parties.  Private citizens shall have their disputes decided
according to the laws of their several countries.

The treaty and above alliance concluded, each party at once released
everything whether acquired by war or otherwise, and thenceforth
acting in common voted to receive neither herald nor embassy from
the Athenians unless they evacuated their forts and withdrew from
Peloponnese, and also to make neither peace nor war with any, except
jointly.  Zeal was not wanting: both parties sent envoys to the
Thracian places and to Perdiccas, and persuaded the latter to join
their league.  Still he did not at once break off from Athens, although
minded to do so upon seeing the way shown him by Argos, the original
home of his family.  They also renewed their old oaths with the
Chalcidians and took new ones: the Argives, besides, sent
ambassadors to the Athenians, bidding them evacuate the fort at
Epidaurus.  The Athenians, seeing their own men outnumbered by the rest
of the garrison, sent Demosthenes to bring them out.  This general,
under colour of a gymnastic contest which he arranged on his
arrival, got the rest of the garrison out of the place, and shut the
gates behind them.  Afterwards the Athenians renewed their treaty
with the Epidaurians, and by themselves gave up the fortress.

After the defection of Argos from the league, the Mantineans, though
they held out at first, in the end finding themselves powerless
without the Argives, themselves too came to terms with Lacedaemon, and
gave up their sovereignty over the towns.  The Lacedaemonians and
Argives, each a thousand strong, now took the field together, and
the former first went by themselves to Sicyon and made the
government there more oligarchical than before, and then both,
uniting, put down the democracy at Argos and set up an oligarchy
favourable to Lacedaemon.  These events occurred at the close of the
winter, just before spring; and the fourteenth year of the war
ended.  The next summer the people of Dium, in Athos, revolted from the
Athenians to the Chalcidians, and the Lacedaemonians settled affairs
in Achaea in a way more agreeable to the interests of their country.
Meanwhile the popular party at Argos little by little gathered new
consistency and courage, and waited for the moment of the
Gymnopaedic festival at Lacedaemon, and then fell upon the
oligarchs.  After a fight in the city, victory declared for the
commons, who slew some of their opponents and banished others.  The
Lacedaemonians for a long while let the messages of their friends at
Argos remain without effect.  At last they put off the Gymnopaediae and
marched to their succour, but learning at Tegea the defeat of the
oligarchs, refused to go any further in spite of the entreaties of
those who had escaped, and returned home and kept the festival.
Later on, envoys arrived with messages from the Argives in the town
and from the exiles, when the allies were also at Sparta; and after
much had been said on both sides, the Lacedaemonians decided that
the party in the town had done wrong, and resolved to march against
Argos, but kept delaying and putting off the matter.  Meanwhile the
commons at Argos, in fear of the Lacedaemonians, began again to
court the Athenian alliance, which they were convinced would be of the
greatest service to them; and accordingly proceeded to build long
walls to the sea, in order that in case of a blockade by land; with
the help of the Athenians they might have the advantage of importing
what they wanted by sea.  Some of the cities in Peloponnese were also
privy to the building of these walls; and the Argives with all their
people, women and slaves not excepted, addressed themselves to the
work, while carpenters and masons came to them from Athens.

Summer was now over.  The winter following the Lacedaemonians,
hearing of the walls that were building, marched against Argos with
their allies, the Corinthians excepted, being also not without
intelligence in the city itself; Agis, son of Archidamus, their
king, was in command.  The intelligence which they counted upon
within the town came to nothing; they however took and razed the walls
which were being built, and after capturing the Argive town Hysiae and
killing all the freemen that fell into their hands, went back and
dispersed every man to his city.  After this the Argives marched into
Phlius and plundered it for harbouring their exiles, most of whom
had settled there, and so returned home.  The same winter the Athenians
blockaded Macedonia, on the score of the league entered into by
Perdiccas with the Argives and Lacedaemonians, and also of his
breach of his engagements on the occasion of the expedition prepared
by Athens against the Chalcidians in the direction of Thrace and
against Amphipolis, under the command of Nicias, son of Niceratus,
which had to be broken up mainly because of his desertion.  He was
therefore proclaimed an enemy.  And thus the winter ended, and the
fifteenth year of the war ended with it.




CHAPTER XVII

_Sixteenth Year of the War - The Melian Conference - Fate of Melos_

The next summer Alcibiades sailed with twenty ships to Argos and
seized the suspected persons still left of the Lacedaemonian faction
to the number of three hundred, whom the Athenians forthwith lodged in
the neighbouring islands of their empire.  The Athenians also made an
expedition against the isle of Melos with thirty ships of their own,
six Chian, and two Lesbian vessels, sixteen hundred heavy infantry,
three hundred archers, and twenty mounted archers from Athens, and
about fifteen hundred heavy infantry from the allies and the
islanders.  The Melians are a colony of Lacedaemon that would not
submit to the Athenians like the other islanders, and at first
remained neutral and took no part in the struggle, but afterwards upon
the Athenians using violence and plundering their territory, assumed
an attitude of open hostility.  Cleomedes, son of Lycomedes, and
Tisias, son of Tisimachus, the generals, encamping in their
territory with the above armament, before doing any harm to their
land, sent envoys to negotiate.  These the Melians did not bring before
the people, but bade them state the object of their mission to the
magistrates and the few; upon which the Athenian envoys spoke as
follows:

Athenians.  Since the negotiations are not to go on before the
people, in order that we may not be able to speak straight on
without interruption, and deceive the ears of the multitude by
seductive arguments which would pass without refutation (for we know
that this is the meaning of our being brought before the few), what if
you who sit there were to pursue a method more cautious still? Make no
set speech yourselves, but take us up at whatever you do not like, and
settle that before going any farther.  And first tell us if this
proposition of ours suits you.

The Melian commissioners answered:

Melians.  To the fairness of quietly instructing each other as you
propose there is nothing to object; but your military preparations are
too far advanced to agree with what you say, as we see you are come to
be judges in your own cause, and that all we can reasonably expect
from this negotiation is war, if we prove to have right on our side
and refuse to submit, and in the contrary case, slavery.

Athenians.  If you have met to reason about presentiments of the
future, or for anything else than to consult for the safety of your
state upon the facts that you see before you, we will give over;
otherwise we will go on.

Melians.  It is natural and excusable for men in our position to turn
more ways than one both in thought and utterance.  However, the
question in this conference is, as you say, the safety of our country;
and the discussion, if you please, can proceed in the way which you
propose.

Athenians.  For ourselves, we shall not trouble you with specious
pretences--either of how we have a right to our empire because we
overthrew the Mede, or are now attacking you because of wrong that you
have done us--and make a long speech which would not be believed; and
in return we hope that you, instead of thinking to influence us by
saying that you did not join the Lacedaemonians, although their
colonists, or that you have done us no wrong, will aim at what is
feasible, holding in view the real sentiments of us both; since you
know as well as we do that right, as the world goes, is only in
question between equals in power, while the strong do what they can
and the weak suffer what they must.

Melians.  As we think, at any rate, it is expedient--we speak as we
are obliged, since you enjoin us to let right alone and talk only of
interest--that you should not destroy what is our common protection,
the privilege of being allowed in danger to invoke what is fair and
right, and even to profit by arguments not strictly valid if they
can be got to pass current.  And you are as much interested in this
as any, as your fall would be a signal for the heaviest vengeance
and an example for the world to meditate upon.

Athenians.  The end of our empire, if end it should, does not
frighten us: a rival empire like Lacedaemon, even if Lacedaemon was
our real antagonist, is not so terrible to the vanquished as
subjects who by themselves attack and overpower their rulers.  This,
however, is a risk that we are content to take.  We will now proceed to
show you that we are come here in the interest of our empire, and that
we shall say what we are now going to say, for the preservation of
your country; as we would fain exercise that empire over you without
trouble, and see you preserved for the good of us both.

Melians.  And how, pray, could it turn out as good for us to serve as
for you to rule?

Athenians.  Because you would have the advantage of submitting before
suffering the worst, and we should gain by not destroying you.

Melians.  So that you would not consent to our being neutral, friends
instead of enemies, but allies of neither side.

Athenians.  No; for your hostility cannot so much hurt us as your
friendship will be an argument to our subjects of our weakness, and
your enmity of our power.

Melians.  Is that your subjects' idea of equity, to put those who
have nothing to do with you in the same category with peoples that are
most of them your own colonists, and some conquered rebels?

Athenians.  As far as right goes they think one has as much of it
as the other, and that if any maintain their independence it is
because they are strong, and that if we do not molest them it is
because we are afraid; so that besides extending our empire we
should gain in security by your subjection; the fact that you are
islanders and weaker than others rendering it all the more important
that you should not succeed in baffling the masters of the sea.

Melians.  But do you consider that there is no security in the policy
which we indicate? For here again if you debar us from talking about
justice and invite us to obey your interest, we also must explain
ours, and try to persuade you, if the two happen to coincide.  How
can you avoid making enemies of all existing neutrals who shall look
at case from it that one day or another you will attack them? And what
is this but to make greater the enemies that you have already, and
to force others to become so who would otherwise have never thought of
it?

Athenians.  Why, the fact is that continentals generally give us
but little alarm; the liberty which they enjoy will long prevent their
taking precautions against us; it is rather islanders like yourselves,
outside our empire, and subjects smarting under the yoke, who would be
the most likely to take a rash step and lead themselves and us into
obvious danger.

Melians.  Well then, if you risk so much to retain your empire, and
your subjects to get rid of it, it were surely great baseness and
cowardice in us who are still free not to try everything that can be
tried, before submitting to your yoke.

Athenians.  Not if you are well advised, the contest not being an
equal one, with honour as the prize and shame as the penalty, but a
question of self-preservation and of not resisting those who are far
stronger than you are.

Melians.  But we know that the fortune of war is sometimes more
impartial than the disproportion of numbers might lead one to suppose;
to submit is to give ourselves over to despair, while action still
preserves for us a hope that we may stand erect.

Athenians.  Hope, danger's comforter, may be indulged in by those who
have abundant resources, if not without loss at all events without
ruin; but its nature is to be extravagant, and those who go so far
as to put their all upon the venture see it in its true colours only
when they are ruined; but so long as the discovery would enable them
to guard against it, it is never found wanting.  Let not this be the
case with you, who are weak and hang on a single turn of the scale;
nor be like the vulgar, who, abandoning such security as human means
may still afford, when visible hopes fail them in extremity, turn to
invisible, to prophecies and oracles, and other such inventions that
delude men with hopes to their destruction.

Melians.  You may be sure that we are as well aware as you of the
difficulty of contending against your power and fortune, unless the
terms be equal.  But we trust that the gods may grant us fortune as
good as yours, since we are just men fighting against unjust, and that
what we want in power will be made up by the alliance of the
Lacedaemonians, who are bound, if only for very shame, to come to
the aid of their kindred.  Our confidence, therefore, after all is
not so utterly irrational.

Athenians.  When you speak of the favour of the gods, we may as
fairly hope for that as yourselves; neither our pretensions nor our
conduct being in any way contrary to what men believe of the gods,
or practise among themselves.  Of the gods we believe, and of men we
know, that by a necessary law of their nature they rule wherever
they can.  And it is not as if we were the first to make this law, or
to act upon it when made: we found it existing before us, and shall
leave it to exist for ever after us; all we do is to make use of it,
knowing that you and everybody else, having the same power as we have,
would do the same as we do.  Thus, as far as the gods are concerned, we
have no fear and no reason to fear that we shall be at a disadvantage.
But when we come to your notion about the Lacedaemonians, which
leads you to believe that shame will make them help you, here we bless
your simplicity but do not envy your folly.  The Lacedaemonians, when
their own interests or their country's laws are in question, are the
worthiest men alive; of their conduct towards others much might be
said, but no clearer idea of it could be given than by shortly
saying that of all the men we know they are most conspicuous in
considering what is agreeable honourable, and what is expedient
just.  Such a way of thinking does not promise much for the safety
which you now unreasonably count upon.

Melians.  But it is for this very reason that we now trust to their
respect for expediency to prevent them from betraying the Melians,
their colonists, and thereby losing the confidence of their friends in
Hellas and helping their enemies.

Athenians.  Then you do not adopt the view that expediency goes
with security, while justice and honour cannot be followed without
danger; and danger the Lacedaemonians generally court as little as
possible.

Melians.  But we believe that they would be more likely to face
even danger for our sake, and with more confidence than for others, as
our nearness to Peloponnese makes it easier for them to act, and our
common blood ensures our fidelity.

Athenians.  Yes, but what an intending ally trusts to is not the
goodwill of those who ask his aid, but a decided superiority of
power for action; and the Lacedaemonians look to this even more than
others.  At least, such is their distrust of their home resources
that it is only with numerous allies that they attack a neighbour; now
is it likely that while we are masters of the sea they will cross over
to an island?

Melians.  But they would have others to send.  The Cretan Sea is a
wide one, and it is more difficult for those who command it to
intercept others, than for those who wish to elude them to do so
safely.  And should the Lacedaemonians miscarry in this, they would
fall upon your land, and upon those left of your allies whom
Brasidas did not reach; and instead of places which are not yours, you
will have to fight for your own country and your own confederacy.

Athenians.  Some diversion of the kind you speak of you may one day
experience, only to learn, as others have done, that the Athenians
never once yet withdrew from a siege for fear of any.  But we are
struck by the fact that, after saying you would consult for the safety
of your country, in all this discussion you have mentioned nothing
which men might trust in and think to be saved by.  Your strongest
arguments depend upon hope and the future, and your actual resources
are too scanty, as compared with those arrayed against you, for you to
come out victorious.  You will therefore show great blindness of
judgment, unless, after allowing us to retire, you can find some
counsel more prudent than this.  You will surely not be caught by
that idea of disgrace, which in dangers that are disgraceful, and at
the same time too plain to be mistaken, proves so fatal to mankind;
since in too many cases the very men that have their eyes perfectly
open to what they are rushing into, let the thing called disgrace,
by the mere influence of a seductive name, lead them on to a point
at which they become so enslaved by the phrase as in fact to fall
wilfully into hopeless disaster, and incur disgrace more disgraceful
as the companion of error, than when it comes as the result of
misfortune.  This, if you are well advised, you will guard against; and
you will not think it dishonourable to submit to the greatest city
in Hellas, when it makes you the moderate offer of becoming its
tributary ally, without ceasing to enjoy the country that belongs to
you; nor when you have the choice given you between war and
security, will you be so blinded as to choose the worse.  And it is
certain that those who do not yield to their equals, who keep terms
with their superiors, and are moderate towards their inferiors, on the
whole succeed best.  Think over the matter, therefore, after our
withdrawal, and reflect once and again that it is for your country
that you are consulting, that you have not more than one, and that
upon this one deliberation depends its prosperity or ruin.

The Athenians now withdrew from the conference; and the Melians,
left to themselves, came to a decision corresponding with what they
had maintained in the discussion, and answered: "Our resolution,
Athenians, is the same as it was at first.  We will not in a moment
deprive of freedom a city that has been inhabited these seven
hundred years; but we put our trust in the fortune by which the gods
have preserved it until now, and in the help of men, that is, of the
Lacedaemonians; and so we will try and save ourselves.  Meanwhile we
invite you to allow us to be friends to you and foes to neither party,
and to retire from our country after making such a treaty as shall
seem fit to us both."

Such was the answer of the Melians.  The Athenians now departing from
the conference said: "Well, you alone, as it seems to us, judging from
these resolutions, regard what is future as more certain than what
is before your eyes, and what is out of sight, in your eagerness, as
already coming to pass; and as you have staked most on, and trusted
most in, the Lacedaemonians, your fortune, and your hopes, so will you
be most completely deceived."

The Athenian envoys now returned to the army; and the Melians
showing no signs of yielding, the generals at once betook themselves
to hostilities, and drew a line of circumvallation round the
Melians, dividing the work among the different states.  Subsequently
the Athenians returned with most of their army, leaving behind them
a certain number of their own citizens and of the allies to keep guard
by land and sea.  The force thus left stayed on and besieged the place.

About the same time the Argives invaded the territory of Phlius
and lost eighty men cut off in an ambush by the Phliasians and
Argive exiles.  Meanwhile the Athenians at Pylos took so much plunder
from the Lacedaemonians that the latter, although they still refrained
from breaking off the treaty and going to war with Athens, yet
proclaimed that any of their people that chose might plunder the
Athenians.  The Corinthians also commenced hostilities with the
Athenians for private quarrels of their own; but the rest of the
Peloponnesians stayed quiet.  Meanwhile the Melians attacked by night
and took the part of the Athenian lines over against the market, and
killed some of the men, and brought in corn and all else that they
could find useful to them, and so returned and kept quiet, while the
Athenians took measures to keep better guard in future.

Summer was now over.  The next winter the Lacedaemonians intended
to invade the Argive territory, but arriving at the frontier found the
sacrifices for crossing unfavourable, and went back again.  This
intention of theirs gave the Argives suspicions of certain of their
fellow citizens, some of whom they arrested; others, however,
escaped them.  About the same time the Melians again took another
part of the Athenian lines which were but feebly garrisoned.
Reinforcements afterwards arriving from Athens in consequence, under
the command of Philocrates, son of Demeas, the siege was now pressed
vigorously; and some treachery taking place inside, the Melians
surrendered at discretion to the Athenians, who put to death all the
grown men whom they took, and sold the women and children for
slaves, and subsequently sent out five hundred colonists and inhabited
the place themselves.




BOOK VI

CHAPTER XVIII

_Seventeenth Year of the War - The Sicilian Campaign -
Affair of the Hermae - Departure of the Expedition_

The same winter the Athenians resolved to sail again to Sicily, with
a greater armament than that under Laches and Eurymedon, and, if
possible, to conquer the island; most of them being ignorant of its
size and of the number of its inhabitants, Hellenic and barbarian, and
of the fact that they were undertaking a war not much inferior to that
against the Peloponnesians.  For the voyage round Sicily in a
merchantman is not far short of eight days; and yet, large as the
island is, there are only two miles of sea to prevent its being
mainland.

It was settled originally as follows, and the peoples that
occupied it are these.  The earliest inhabitants spoken of in any
part of the country are the Cyclopes and Laestrygones; but I cannot
tell of what race they were, or whence they came or whither they went,
and must leave my readers to what the poets have said of them and to
what may be generally known concerning them.  The Sicanians appear to
have been the next settlers, although they pretend to have been the
first of all and aborigines; but the facts show that they were
Iberians, driven by the Ligurians from the river Sicanus in Iberia.  It
was from them that the island, before called Trinacria, took its
name of Sicania, and to the present day they inhabit the west of
Sicily.  On the fall of Ilium, some of the Trojans escaped from the
Achaeans, came in ships to Sicily, and settled next to the Sicanians
under the general name of Elymi; their towns being called Eryx and
Egesta.  With them settled some of the Phocians carried on their way
from Troy by a storm, first to Libya, and afterwards from thence to
Sicily.  The Sicels crossed over to Sicily from their first home Italy,
flying from the Opicans, as tradition says and as seems not
unlikely, upon rafts, having watched till the wind set down the strait
to effect the passage; although perhaps they may have sailed over in
some other way.  Even at the present day there are still Sicels in
Italy; and the country got its name of Italy from Italus, a king of
the Sicels, so called.  These went with a great host to Sicily,
defeated the Sicanians in battle and forced them to remove to the
south and west of the island, which thus came to be called Sicily
instead of Sicania, and after they crossed over continued to enjoy the
richest parts of the country for near three hundred years before any
Hellenes came to Sicily; indeed they still hold the centre and north
of the island.  There were also Phoenicians living all round Sicily,
who had occupied promontories upon the sea coasts and the islets
adjacent for the purpose of trading with the Sicels.  But when the
Hellenes began to arrive in considerable numbers by sea, the
Phoenicians abandoned most of their stations, and drawing together
took up their abode in Motye, Soloeis, and Panormus, near the Elymi,
partly because they confided in their alliance, and also because these
are the nearest points for the voyage between Carthage and Sicily.

These were the barbarians in Sicily, settled as I have said.  Of
the Hellenes, the first to arrive were Chalcidians from Euboea with
Thucles, their founder.  They founded Naxos and built the altar to
Apollo Archegetes, which now stands outside the town, and upon which
the deputies for the games sacrifice before sailing from Sicily.
Syracuse was founded the year afterwards by Archias, one of the
Heraclids from Corinth, who began by driving out the Sicels from the
island upon which the inner city now stands, though it is no longer
surrounded by water: in process of time the outer town also was
taken within the walls and became populous.  Meanwhile Thucles and
the Chalcidians set out from Naxos in the fifth year after the
foundation of Syracuse, and drove out the Sicels by arms and founded
Leontini and afterwards Catana; the Catanians themselves choosing
Evarchus as their founder.

About the same time Lamis arrived in Sicily with a colony from
Megara, and after founding a place called Trotilus beyond the river
Pantacyas, and afterwards leaving it and for a short while joining the
Chalcidians at Leontini, was driven out by them and founded Thapsus.
After his death his companions were driven out of Thapsus, and founded
a place called the Hyblaean Megara; Hyblon, a Sicel king, having given
up the place and inviting them thither.  Here they lived two hundred
and forty-five years; after which they were expelled from the city and
the country by the Syracusan tyrant Gelo.  Before their expulsion,
however, a hundred years after they had settled there, they sent out
Pamillus and founded Selinus; he having come from their mother country
Megara to join them in its foundation.  Gela was founded by
Antiphemus from Rhodes and Entimus from Crete, who joined in leading a
colony thither, in the forty-fifth year after the foundation of
Syracuse.  The town took its name from the river Gelas, the place where
the citadel now stands, and which was first fortified, being called
Lindii.  The institutions which they adopted were Dorian.  Near one
hundred and eight years after the foundation of Gela, the Geloans
founded Acragas (Agrigentum), so called from the river of that name,
and made Aristonous and Pystilus their founders; giving their own
institutions to the colony.  Zancle was originally founded by pirates
from Cuma, the Chalcidian town in the country of the Opicans:
afterwards, however, large numbers came from Chalcis and the rest of
Euboea, and helped to people the place; the founders being Perieres
and Crataemenes from Cuma and Chalcis respectively.  It first had the
name of Zancle given it by the Sicels, because the place is shaped
like a sickle, which the Sicels call zanclon; but upon the original
settlers being afterwards expelled by some Samians and other Ionians
who landed in Sicily flying from the Medes, and the Samians in their
turn not long afterwards by Anaxilas, tyrant of Rhegium, the town
was by him colonized with a mixed population, and its name changed
to Messina, after his old country.

Himera was founded from Zancle by Euclides, Simus, and Sacon, most
of those who went to the colony being Chalcidians; though they were
joined by some exiles from Syracuse, defeated in a civil war, called
the Myletidae.  The language was a mixture of Chalcidian and Doric, but
the institutions which prevailed were the Chalcidian.  Acrae and
Casmenae were founded by the Syracusans; Acrae seventy years after
Syracuse, Casmenae nearly twenty after Acrae.  Camarina was first
founded by the Syracusans, close upon a hundred and thirty-five
years after the building of Syracuse; its founders being Daxon and
Menecolus.  But the Camarinaeans being expelled by arms by the
Syracusans for having revolted, Hippocrates, tyrant of Gela, some time
later receiving their land in ransom for some Syracusan prisoners,
resettled Camarina, himself acting as its founder.  Lastly, it was
again depopulated by Gelo, and settled once more for the third time by
the Geloans.

Such is the list of the peoples, Hellenic and barbarian,
inhabiting Sicily, and such the magnitude of the island which the
Athenians were now bent upon invading; being ambitious in real truth
of conquering the whole, although they had also the specious design of
succouring their kindred and other allies in the island.  But they were
especially incited by envoys from Egesta, who had come to Athens and
invoked their aid more urgently than ever.  The Egestaeans had gone
to war with their neighbours the Selinuntines upon questions of
marriage and disputed territory, and the Selinuntines had procured the
alliance of the Syracusans, and pressed Egesta hard by land and sea.
The Egestaeans now reminded the Athenians of the alliance made in
the time of Laches, during the former Leontine war, and begged them to
send a fleet to their aid, and among a number of other
considerations urged as a capital argument that if the Syracusans were
allowed to go unpunished for their depopulation of Leontini, to ruin
the allies still left to Athens in Sicily, and to get the whole
power of the island into their hands, there would be a danger of their
one day coming with a large force, as Dorians, to the aid of their
Dorian brethren, and as colonists, to the aid of the Peloponnesians
who had sent them out, and joining these in pulling down the
Athenian empire.  The Athenians would, therefore, do well to unite with
the allies still left to them, and to make a stand against the
Syracusans; especially as they, the Egestaeans, were prepared to
furnish money sufficient for the war.  The Athenians, hearing these
arguments constantly repeated in their assemblies by the Egestaeans
and their supporters, voted first to send envoys to Egesta, to see
if there was really the money that they talked of in the treasury
and temples, and at the same time to ascertain in what posture was the
war with the Selinuntines.

The envoys of the Athenians were accordingly dispatched to Sicily.
The same winter the Lacedaemonians and their allies, the Corinthians
excepted, marched into the Argive territory, and ravaged a small
part of the land, and took some yokes of oxen and carried off some
corn.  They also settled the Argive exiles at Orneae, and left them a
few soldiers taken from the rest of the army; and after making a truce
for a certain while, according to which neither Orneatae nor Argives
were to injure each other's territory, returned home with the army.
Not long afterwards the Athenians came with thirty ships and six
hundred heavy infantry, and the Argives joining them with all their
forces, marched out and besieged the men in Orneae for one day; but
the garrison escaped by night, the besiegers having bivouacked some
way off.  The next day the Argives, discovering it, razed Orneae to the
ground, and went back again; after which the Athenians went home in
their ships.  Meanwhile the Athenians took by sea to Methone on the
Macedonian border some cavalry of their own and the Macedonian
exiles that were at Athens, and plundered the country of Perdiccas.
Upon this the Lacedaemonians sent to the Thracian Chalcidians, who had
a truce with Athens from one ten days to another, urging them to
join Perdiccas in the war, which they refused to do.  And the winter
ended, and with it ended the sixteenth year of this war of which
Thucydides is the historian.

Early in the spring of the following summer the Athenian envoys
arrived from Sicily, and the Egestaeans with them, bringing sixty
talents of uncoined silver, as a month's pay for sixty ships, which
they were to ask to have sent them.  The Athenians held an assembly
and, after hearing from the Egestaeans and their own envoys a
report, as attractive as it was untrue, upon the state of affairs
generally, and in particular as to the money, of which, it was said,
there was abundance in the temples and the treasury, voted to send
sixty ships to Sicily, under the command of Alcibiades, son of
Clinias, Nicias, son of Niceratus, and Lamachus, son of Xenophanes,
who were appointed with full powers; they were to help the
Egestaeans against the Selinuntines, to restore Leontini upon
gaining any advantage in the war, and to order all other matters in
Sicily as they should deem best for the interests of Athens.  Five days
after this a second assembly was held, to consider the speediest means
of equipping the ships, and to vote whatever else might be required by
the generals for the expedition; and Nicias, who had been chosen to
the command against his will, and who thought that the state was not
well advised, but upon a slight aid specious pretext was aspiring to
the conquest of the whole of Sicily, a great matter to achieve, came
forward in the hope of diverting the Athenians from the enterprise,
and gave them the following counsel:

"Although this assembly was convened to consider the preparations to
be made for sailing to Sicily, I think, notwithstanding, that we
have still this question to examine, whether it be better to send out
the ships at all, and that we ought not to give so little consideration
to a matter of such moment, or let ourselves be persuaded by
foreigners into undertaking a war with which we have nothing to do.
And yet, individually, I gain in honour by such a course, and fear as
little as other men for my person--not that I think a man need be
any the worse citizen for taking some thought for his person and
estate; on the contrary, such a man would for his own sake desire
the prosperity of his country more than others--nevertheless,
as I have never spoken against my convictions to gain honour, I
shall not begin to do so now, but shall say what I think best.
Against your character any words of mine would be weak enough, if
I were to advise your keeping what you have got and not risking
what is actually yours for advantages which are dubious in themselves,
and which you may or may not attain.  I will, therefore, content
myself with showing that your ardour is out of season, and your
ambition not easy of accomplishment.

"I affirm, then, that you leave many enemies behind you here to go
yonder and bring more back with you.  You imagine, perhaps, that the
treaty which you have made can be trusted; a treaty that will continue
to exist nominally, as long as you keep quiet--for nominal it has
become, owing to the practices of certain men here and at Sparta--but
which in the event of a serious reverse in any quarter would not delay
our enemies a moment in attacking us; first, because the convention
was forced upon them by disaster and was less honourable to them
than to us; and secondly, because in this very convention there are
many points that are still disputed.  Again, some of the most
powerful states have never yet accepted the arrangement at all.  Some
of these are at open war with us; others (as the Lacedaemonians do not
yet move) are restrained by truces renewed every ten days, and it is
only too probable that if they found our power divided, as we are
hurrying to divide it, they would attack us vigorously with the
Siceliots, whose alliance they would have in the past valued as they
would that of few others.  A man ought, therefore, to consider these
points, and not to think of running risks with a country placed so
critically, or of grasping at another empire before we have secured
the one we have already; for in fact the Thracian Chalcidians have
been all these years in revolt from us without being yet subdued,
and others on the continents yield us but a doubtful obedience.
Meanwhile the Egestaeans, our allies, have been wronged, and we run to
help them, while the rebels who have so long wronged us still wait for
punishment.

"And yet the latter, if brought under, might be kept under; while
the Sicilians, even if conquered, are too far off and too numerous
to be ruled without difficulty.  Now it is folly to go against men
who could not be kept under even if conquered, while failure would
leave us in a very different position from that which we occupied
before the enterprise.  The Siceliots, again, to take them as they
are at present, in the event of a Syracusan conquest (the favourite
bugbear of the Egestaeans), would to my thinking be even less
dangerous to us than before.  At present they might possibly come
here as separate states for love of Lacedaemon; in the other case
one empire would scarcely attack another; for after joining the
Peloponnesians to overthrow ours, they could only expect to see the
same hands overthrow their own in the same way.  The Hellenes in Sicily
would fear us most if we never went there at all, and next to this, if
after displaying our power we went away again as soon as possible.
We all know that that which is farthest off, and the reputation of
which can least be tested, is the object of admiration; at the least
reverse they would at once begin to look down upon us, and would
join our enemies here against us.  You have yourselves experienced this
with regard to the Lacedaemonians and their allies, whom your
unexpected success, as compared with what you feared at first, has
made you suddenly despise, tempting you further to aspire to the
conquest of Sicily.  Instead, however, of being puffed up by the
misfortunes of your adversaries, you ought to think of breaking
their spirit before giving yourselves up to confidence, and to
understand that the one thought awakened in the Lacedaemonians by
their disgrace is how they may even now, if possible, overthrow us and
repair their dishonour; inasmuch as military reputation is their
oldest and chiefest study.  Our struggle, therefore, if we are wise,
will not be for the barbarian Egestaeans in Sicily, but how to
defend ourselves most effectually against the oligarchical
machinations of Lacedaemon.

"We should also remember that we are but now enjoying some respite
from a great pestilence and from war, to the no small benefit of our
estates and persons, and that it is right to employ these at home on
our own behalf, instead of using them on behalf of these exiles
whose interest it is to lie as fairly as they can, who do nothing
but talk themselves and leave the danger to others, and who if they
succeed will show no proper gratitude, and if they fail will drag down
their friends with them.  And if there be any man here, overjoyed at
being chosen to command, who urges you to make the expedition,
merely for ends of his own--specially if he be still too young to
command--who seeks to be admired for his stud of horses, but on
account of its heavy expenses hopes for some profit from his
appointment, do not allow such a one to maintain his private splendour
at his country's risk, but remember that such persons injure the
public fortune while they squander their own, and that this is a
matter of importance, and not for a young man to decide or hastily to
take in hand.

"When I see such persons now sitting here at the side of that same
individual and summoned by him, alarm seizes me; and I, in my turn,
summon any of the older men that may have such a person sitting next
him not to let himself be shamed down, for fear of being thought a
coward if he do not vote for war, but, remembering how rarely
success is got by wishing and how often by forecast, to leave to
them the mad dream of conquest, and as a true lover of his country,
now threatened by the greatest danger in its history, to hold up his
hand on the other side; to vote that the Siceliots be left in the
limits now existing between us, limits of which no one can complain
(the Ionian sea for the coasting voyage, and the Sicilian across the
open main), to enjoy their own possessions and to settle their own
quarrels; that the Egestaeans, for their part, be told to end by
themselves with the Selinuntines the war which they began without
consulting the Athenians; and that for the future we do not enter into
alliance, as we have been used to do, with people whom we must help in
their need, and who can never help us in ours.

"And you, Prytanis, if you think it your duty to care for the
commonwealth, and if you wish to show yourself a good citizen, put the
question to the vote, and take a second time the opinions of the
Athenians.  If you are afraid to move the question again, consider that
a violation of the law cannot carry any prejudice with so many
abettors, that you will be the physician of your misguided city, and
that the virtue of men in office is briefly this, to do their
country as much good as they can, or in any case no harm that they can
avoid."

Such were the words of Nicias.  Most of the Athenians that came
forward spoke in favour of the expedition, and of not annulling what
had been voted, although some spoke on the other side.  By far the
warmest advocate of the expedition was, however, Alcibiades, son of
Clinias, who wished to thwart Nicias both as his political opponent
and also because of the attack he had made upon him in his speech, and
who was, besides, exceedingly ambitious of a command by which he hoped
to reduce Sicily and Carthage, and personally to gain in wealth and
reputation by means of his successes.  For the position he held among
the citizens led him to indulge his tastes beyond what his real
means would bear, both in keeping horses and in the rest of his
expenditure; and this later on had not a little to do with the ruin of
the Athenian state.  Alarmed at the greatness of his licence in his own
life and habits, and of the ambition which he showed in all things
soever that he undertook, the mass of the people set him down as a
pretender to the tyranny, and became his enemies; and although
publicly his conduct of the war was as good as could be desired,
individually, his habits gave offence to every one, and caused them to
commit affairs to other hands, and thus before long to ruin the
city.  Meanwhile he now came forward and gave the following advice to
the Athenians:

"Athenians, I have a better right to command than others--I must
begin with this as Nicias has attacked me--and at the same time I
believe myself to be worthy of it.  The things for which I am abused,
bring fame to my ancestors and to myself, and to the country profit
besides.  The Hellenes, after expecting to see our city ruined by the
war, concluded it to be even greater than it really is, by reason of
the magnificence with which I represented it at the Olympic games,
when I sent into the lists seven chariots, a number never before
entered by any private person, and won the first prize, and was second
and fourth, and took care to have everything else in a style worthy of
my victory.  Custom regards such displays as honourable, and they
cannot be made without leaving behind them an impression of power.
Again, any splendour that I may have exhibited at home in providing
choruses or otherwise, is naturally envied by my fellow citizens,
but in the eyes of foreigners has an air of strength as in the other
instance.  And this is no useless folly, when a man at his own
private cost benefits not himself only, but his city: nor is it unfair
that he who prides himself on his position should refuse to be upon an
equality with the rest.  He who is badly off has his misfortunes all to
himself, and as we do not see men courted in adversity, on the like
principle a man ought to accept the insolence of prosperity; or
else, let him first mete out equal measure to all, and then demand
to have it meted out to him.  What I know is that persons of this
kind and all others that have attained to any distinction, although
they may be unpopular in their lifetime in their relations with
their fellow-men and especially with their equals, leave to
posterity the desire of claiming connection with them even without any
ground, and are vaunted by the country to which they belonged, not
as strangers or ill-doers, but as fellow-countrymen and heroes.  Such
are my aspirations, and however I am abused for them in private, the
question is whether any one manages public affairs better than I do.
Having united the most powerful states of Peloponnese, without great
danger or expense to you, I compelled the Lacedaemonians to stake
their all upon the issue of a single day at Mantinea; and although
victorious in the battle, they have never since fully recovered
confidence.

"Thus did my youth and so-called monstrous folly find fitting
arguments to deal with the power of the Peloponnesians, and by its
ardour win their confidence and prevail.  And do not be afraid of my
youth now, but while I am still in its flower, and Nicias appears
fortunate, avail yourselves to the utmost of the services of us
both.  Neither rescind your resolution to sail to Sicily, on the ground
that you would be going to attack a great power.  The cities in
Sicily are peopled by motley rabbles, and easily change their
institutions and adopt new ones in their stead; and consequently the
inhabitants, being without any feeling of patriotism, are not provided
with arms for their persons, and have not regularly established
themselves on the land; every man thinks that either by fair words
or by party strife he can obtain something at the public expense,
and then in the event of a catastrophe settle in some other country,
and makes his preparations accordingly.  From a mob like this you
need not look for either unanimity in counsel or concert in action;
but they will probably one by one come in as they get a fair offer,
especially if they are torn by civil strife as we are told.
Moreover, the Siceliots have not so many heavy infantry as they boast;
just as the Hellenes generally did not prove so numerous as each state
reckoned itself, but Hellas greatly over-estimated their numbers,
and has hardly had an adequate force of heavy infantry throughout this
war.  The states in Sicily, therefore, from all that I can hear, will
be found as I say, and I have not pointed out all our advantages,
for we shall have the help of many barbarians, who from their hatred
of the Syracusans will join us in attacking them; nor will the
powers at home prove any hindrance, if you judge rightly.  Our
fathers with these very adversaries, which it is said we shall now
leave behind us when we sail, and the Mede as their enemy as well,
were able to win the empire, depending solely on their superiority
at sea.  The Peloponnesians had never so little hope against us as at
present; and let them be ever so sanguine, although strong enough to
invade our country even if we stay at home, they can never hurt us
with their navy, as we leave one of our own behind us that is a
match for them.

"In this state of things what reason can we give to ourselves for
holding back, or what excuse can we offer to our allies in Sicily
for not helping them? They are our confederates, and we are bound to
assist them, without objecting that they have not assisted us.  We
did not take them into alliance to have them to help us in Hellas, but
that they might so annoy our enemies in Sicily as to prevent them from
coming over here and attacking us.  It is thus that empire has been
won, both by us and by all others that have held it, by a constant
readiness to support all, whether barbarians or Hellenes, that
invite assistance; since if all were to keep quiet or to pick and
choose whom they ought to assist, we should make but few new
conquests, and should imperil those we have already won.  Men do not
rest content with parrying the attacks of a superior, but often strike
the first blow to prevent the attack being made.  And we cannot fix the
exact point at which our empire shall stop; we have reached a position
in which we must not be content with retaining but must scheme to
extend it, for, if we cease to rule others, we are in danger of
being ruled ourselves.  Nor can you look at inaction from the same
point of view as others, unless you are prepared to change your habits
and make them like theirs.

"Be convinced, then, that we shall augment our power at home by this
adventure abroad, and let us make the expedition, and so humble the
pride of the Peloponnesians by sailing off to Sicily, and letting them
see how little we care for the peace that we are now enjoying; and
at the same time we shall either become masters, as we very easily
may, of the whole of Hellas through the accession of the Sicilian
Hellenes, or in any case ruin the Syracusans, to the no small
advantage of ourselves and our allies.  The faculty of staying if
successful, or of returning, will be secured to us by our navy, as
we shall be superior at sea to all the Siceliots put together.  And
do not let the do-nothing policy which Nicias advocates, or his
setting of the young against the old, turn you from your purpose,
but in the good old fashion by which our fathers, old and young
together, by their united counsels brought our affairs to their
present height, do you endeavour still to advance them;
understanding that neither youth nor old age can do anything the one
without the other, but that levity, sobriety, and deliberate
judgment are strongest when united, and that, by sinking into
inaction, the city, like everything else, will wear itself out, and
its skill in everything decay; while each fresh struggle will give
it fresh experience, and make it more used to defend itself not in
word but in deed.  In short, my conviction is that a city not
inactive by nature could not choose a quicker way to ruin itself
than by suddenly adopting such a policy, and that the safest rule of
life is to take one's character and institutions for better and for
worse, and to live up to them as closely as one can."

Such were the words of Alcibiades.  After hearing him and the
Egestaeans and some Leontine exiles, who came forward reminding them
of their oaths and imploring their assistance, the Athenians became
more eager for the expedition than before.  Nicias, perceiving that
it would be now useless to try to deter them by the old line of
argument, but thinking that he might perhaps alter their resolution by
the extravagance of his estimates, came forward a second time and
spoke as follows:

"I see, Athenians, that you are thoroughly bent upon the expedition,
and therefore hope that all will turn out as we wish, and proceed to
give you my opinion at the present juncture.  From all that I hear we
are going against cities that are great and not subject to one
another, or in need of change, so as to be glad to pass from
enforced servitude to an easier condition, or in the least likely to
accept our rule in exchange for freedom; and, to take only the
Hellenic towns, they are very numerous for one island.  Besides Naxos
and Catana, which I expect to join us from their connection with
Leontini, there are seven others armed at all points just like our own
power, particularly Selinus and Syracuse, the chief objects of our
expedition.  These are full of heavy infantry, archers, and darters,
have galleys in abundance and crowds to man them; they have also
money, partly in the hands of private persons, partly in the temples
at Selinus, and at Syracuse first-fruits from some of the barbarians
as well.  But their chief advantage over us lies in the number of their
horses, and in the fact that they grow their corn at home instead of
importing it.

"Against a power of this kind it will not do to have merely a weak
naval armament, but we shall want also a large land army to sail
with us, if we are to do anything worthy of our ambition, and are
not to be shut out from the country by a numerous cavalry;
especially if the cities should take alarm and combine, and we
should be left without friends (except the Egestaeans) to furnish us
with horse to defend ourselves with.  It would be disgraceful to have
to retire under compulsion, or to send back for reinforcements,
owing to want of reflection at first: we must therefore start from
home with a competent force, seeing that we are going to sail far from
our country, and upon an expedition not like any which you may
undertaken undertaken the quality of allies, among your subject states
here in Hellas, where any additional supplies needed were easily drawn
from the friendly territory; but we are cutting ourselves off, and
going to a land entirely strange, from which during four months in
winter it is not even easy for a messenger get to Athens.

"I think, therefore, that we ought to take great numbers of heavy
infantry, both from Athens and from our allies, and not merely from
our subjects, but also any we may be able to get for love or for money
in Peloponnese, and great numbers also of archers and slingers, to
make head against the Sicilian horse.  Meanwhile we must have an
overwhelming superiority at sea, to enable us the more easily to carry
in what we want; and we must take our own corn in merchant vessels,
that is to say, wheat and parched barley, and bakers from the mills
compelled to serve for pay in the proper proportion; in order that
in case of our being weather-bound the armament may not want
provisions, as it is not every city that will be able to entertain
numbers like ours.  We must also provide ourselves with everything else
as far as we can, so as not to be dependent upon others; and above all
we must take with us from home as much money as possible, as the
sums talked of as ready at Egesta are readier, you may be sure, in
talk than in any other way.

"Indeed, even if we leave Athens with a force not only equal to that
of the enemy except in the number of heavy infantry in the field,
but even at all points superior to him, we shall still find it
difficult to conquer Sicily or save ourselves.  We must not disguise
from ourselves that we go to found a city among strangers and enemies,
and that he who undertakes such an enterprise should be prepared to
become master of the country the first day he lands, or failing in
this to find everything hostile to him.  Fearing this, and knowing that
we shall have need of much good counsel and more good fortune--a hard
matter for mortal man to aspire to--I wish as far as may be to make
myself independent of fortune before sailing, and when I do sail, to
be as safe as a strong force can make me.  This I believe to be
surest for the country at large, and safest for us who are to go on
the expedition.  If any one thinks differently I resign to him my
command."

With this Nicias concluded, thinking that he should either disgust
the Athenians by the magnitude of the undertaking, or, if obliged to
sail on the expedition, would thus do so in the safest way possible.
The Athenians, however, far from having their taste for the voyage
taken away by the burdensomeness of the preparations, became more
eager for it than ever; and just the contrary took place of what
Nicias had thought, as it was held that he had given good advice,
and that the expedition would be the safest in the world.  All alike
fell in love with the enterprise.  The older men thought that they
would either subdue the places against which they were to sail, or
at all events, with so large a force, meet with no disaster; those
in the prime of life felt a longing for foreign sights and spectacles,
and had no doubt that they should come safe home again; while the idea
of the common people and the soldiery was to earn wages at the moment,
and make conquests that would supply a never-ending fund of pay for
the future.  With this enthusiasm of the majority, the few that liked
it not, feared to appear unpatriotic by holding up their hands against
it, and so kept quiet.

At last one of the Athenians came forward and called upon Nicias and
told him that he ought not to make excuses or put them off, but say at
once before them all what forces the Athenians should vote him.  Upon
this he said, not without reluctance, that he would advise upon that
matter more at leisure with his colleagues; as far however as he could
see at present, they must sail with at least one hundred galleys--the
Athenians providing as many transports as they might determine, and
sending for others from the allies--not less than five thousand heavy
infantry in all, Athenian and allied, and if possible more; and the
rest of the armament in proportion; archers from home and from
Crete, and slingers, and whatever else might seem desirable, being got
ready by the generals and taken with them.

Upon hearing this the Athenians at once voted that the generals
should have full powers in the matter of the numbers of the army and
of the expedition generally, to do as they judged best for the
interests of Athens.  After this the preparations began; messages being
sent to the allies and the rolls drawn up at home.  And as the city had
just recovered from the plague and the long war, and a number of young
men had grown up and capital had accumulated by reason of the truce,
everything was the more easily provided.

In the midst of these preparations all the stone Hermae in the
city of Athens, that is to say the customary square figures, so common
in the doorways of private houses and temples, had in one night most
of them their fares mutilated.  No one knew who had done it, but
large public rewards were offered to find the authors; and it was
further voted that any one who knew of any other act of impiety having
been committed should come and give information without fear of
consequences, whether he were citizen, alien, or slave.  The matter was
taken up the more seriously, as it was thought to be ominous for the
expedition, and part of a conspiracy to bring about a revolution and
to upset the democracy.

Information was given accordingly by some resident aliens and body
servants, not about the Hermae but about some previous mutilations
of other images perpetrated by young men in a drunken frolic, and of
mock celebrations of the mysteries, averred to take place in private
houses.  Alcibiades being implicated in this charge, it was taken
hold of by those who could least endure him, because he stood in the
way of their obtaining the undisturbed direction of the people, and
who thought that if he were once removed the first place would be
theirs.  These accordingly magnified the matter and loudly proclaimed
that the affair of the mysteries and the mutilation of the Hermae were
part and parcel of a scheme to overthrow the democracy, and that
nothing of all this had been done without Alcibiades; the proofs
alleged being the general and undemocratic licence of his life and
habits.

Alcibiades repelled on the spot the charges in question, and also
before going on the expedition, the preparations for which were now
complete, offered to stand his trial, that it might be seen whether he
was guilty of the acts imputed to him; desiring to be punished if
found guilty, but, if acquitted, to take the command.  Meanwhile he
protested against their receiving slanders against him in his absence,
and begged them rather to put him to death at once if he were
guilty, and pointed out the imprudence of sending him out at the
head of so large an army, with so serious a charge still undecided.
But his enemies feared that he would have the army for him if he
were tried immediately, and that the people might relent in favour
of the man whom they already caressed as the cause of the Argives
and some of the Mantineans joining in the expedition, and did their
utmost to get this proposition rejected, putting forward other orators
who said that he ought at present to sail and not delay the
departure of the army, and be tried on his return within a fixed
number of days; their plan being to have him sent for and brought home
for trial upon some graver charge, which they would the more easily
get up in his absence.  Accordingly it was decreed that he should sail.

After this the departure for Sicily took place, it being now about
midsummer.  Most of the allies, with the corn transports and the
smaller craft and the rest of the expedition, had already received
orders to muster at Corcyra, to cross the Ionian Sea from thence in
a body to the Iapygian promontory.  But the Athenians themselves, and
such of their allies as happened to be with them, went down to Piraeus
upon a day appointed at daybreak, and began to man the ships for
putting out to sea.  With them also went down the whole population, one
may say, of the city, both citizens and foreigners; the inhabitants of
the country each escorting those that belonged to them, their friends,
their relatives, or their sons, with hope and lamentation upon their
way, as they thought of the conquests which they hoped to make, or
of the friends whom they might never see again, considering the long
voyage which they were going to make from their country.  Indeed, at
this moment, when they were now upon the point of parting from one
another, the danger came more home to them than when they voted for
the expedition; although the strength of the armament, and the profuse
provision which they remarked in every department, was a sight that
could not but comfort them.  As for the foreigners and the rest of
the crowd, they simply went to see a sight worth looking at and
passing all belief.

Indeed this armament that first sailed out was by far the most
costly and splendid Hellenic force that had ever been sent out by a
single city up to that time.  In mere number of ships and heavy
infantry that against Epidaurus under Pericles, and the same when
going against Potidaea under Hagnon, was not inferior; containing as
it did four thousand Athenian heavy infantry, three hundred horse, and
one hundred galleys accompanied by fifty Lesbian and Chian vessels and
many allies besides.  But these were sent upon a short voyage and
with a scanty equipment.  The present expedition was formed in
contemplation of a long term of service by land and sea alike, and was
furnished with ships and troops so as to be ready for either as
required.  The fleet had been elaborately equipped at great cost to the
captains and the state; the treasury giving a drachma a day to each
seaman, and providing empty ships, sixty men-of-war and forty
transports, and manning these with the best crews obtainable; while
the captains gave a bounty in addition to the pay from the treasury to
the thranitae and crews generally, besides spending lavishly upon
figure-heads and equipments, and one and all making the utmost
exertions to enable their own ships to excel in beauty and fast
sailing.  Meanwhile the land forces had been picked from the best
muster-rolls, and vied with each other in paying great attention to
their arms and personal accoutrements.  From this resulted not only a
rivalry among themselves in their different departments, but an idea
among the rest of the Hellenes that it was more a display of power and
resources than an armament against an enemy.  For if any one had
counted up the public expenditure of the state, and the private outlay
of individuals--that is to say, the sums which the state had already
spent upon the expedition and was sending out in the hands of the
generals, and those which individuals had expended upon their personal
outfit, or as captains of galleys had laid out and were still to lay
out upon their vessels; and if he had added to this the journey
money which each was likely to have provided himself with,
independently of the pay from the treasury, for a voyage of such
length, and what the soldiers or traders took with them for the
purpose of exchange--it would have been found that many talents in
all were being taken out of the city.  Indeed the expedition became not
less famous for its wonderful boldness and for the splendour of its
appearance, than for its overwhelming strength as compared with the
peoples against whom it was directed, and for the fact that this was
the longest passage from home hitherto attempted, and the most
ambitious in its objects considering the resources of those who
undertook it.

The ships being now manned, and everything put on board with which
they meant to sail, the trumpet commanded silence, and the prayers
customary before putting out to sea were offered, not in each ship
by itself, but by all together to the voice of a herald; and bowls
of wine were mixed through all the armament, and libations made by the
soldiers and their officers in gold and silver goblets.  In their
prayers joined also the crowds on shore, the citizens and all others
that wished them well.  The hymn sung and the libations finished,
they put out to sea, and first out in column then raced each other
as far as Aegina, and so hastened to reach Corcyra, where the rest
of the allied forces were also assembling.




CHAPTER XIX

_Seventeenth Year of the War - Parties at Syracuse - Story of
Harmodius and Aristogiton - Disgrace of Alcibiades_

Meanwhile at Syracuse news came in from many quarters of the
expedition, but for a long while met with no credence whatever.
Indeed, an assembly was held in which speeches, as will be seen,
were delivered by different orators, believing or contradicting the
report of the Athenian expedition; among whom Hermocrates, son of
Hermon, came forward, being persuaded that he knew the truth of the
matter, and gave the following counsel:

"Although I shall perhaps be no better believed than others have
been when I speak upon the reality of the expedition, and although I
know that those who either make or repeat statements thought not
worthy of belief not only gain no converts but are thought fools for
their pains, I shall certainly not be frightened into holding my
tongue when the state is in danger, and when I am persuaded that I can
speak with more authority on the matter than other persons.  Much as
you wonder at it, the Athenians nevertheless have set out against us
with a large force, naval and military, professedly to help the
Egestaeans and to restore Leontini, but really to conquer Sicily,
and above all our city, which once gained, the rest, they think,
will easily follow.  Make up your minds, therefore, to see them
speedily here, and see how you can best repel them with the means
under your hand, and do be taken off your guard through despising
the news, or neglect the common weal through disbelieving it.
Meanwhile those who believe me need not be dismayed at the force or
daring of the enemy.  They will not be able to do us more hurt than
we shall do them; nor is the greatness of their armament altogether
without advantage to us.  Indeed, the greater it is the better, with
regard to the rest of the Siceliots, whom dismay will make more
ready to join us; and if we defeat or drive them away, disappointed of
the objects of their ambition (for I do not fear for a moment that
they will get what they want), it will be a most glorious exploit
for us, and in my judgment by no means an unlikely one.  Few indeed
have been the large armaments, either Hellenic or barbarian, that have
gone far from home and been successful.  They cannot be more numerous
than the people of the country and their neighbours, all of whom
fear leagues together; and if they miscarry for want of supplies in
a foreign land, to those against whom their plans were laid none the
less they leave renown, although they may themselves have been the
main cause of their own discomfort.  Thus these very Athenians rose
by the defeat of the Mede, in a great measure due to accidental
causes, from the mere fact that Athens had been the object of his
attack; and this may very well be the case with us also.

"Let us, therefore, confidently begin preparations here; let us send
and confirm some of the Sicels, and obtain the friendship and alliance
of others, and dispatch envoys to the rest of Sicily to show that
the danger is common to all, and to Italy to get them to become our
allies, or at all events to refuse to receive the Athenians.  I also
think that it would be best to send to Carthage as well; they are by
no means there without apprehension, but it is their constant fear
that the Athenians may one day attack their city, and they may perhaps
think that they might themselves suffer by letting Sicily be
sacrificed, and be willing to help us secretly if not openly, in one
way if not in another.  They are the best able to do so, if they
will, of any of the present day, as they possess most gold and silver,
by which war, like everything else, flourishes.  Let us also send to
Lacedaemon and Corinth, and ask them to come here and help us as
soon as possible, and to keep alive the war in Hellas.  But the true
thing of all others, in my opinion, to do at the present moment, is
what you, with your constitutional love of quiet, will be slow to see,
and what I must nevertheless mention.  If we Siceliots, all together,
or at least as many as possible besides ourselves, would only launch
the whole of our actual navy with two months' provisions, and meet the
Athenians at Tarentum and the Iapygian promontory, and show them
that before fighting for Sicily they must first fight for their
passage across the Ionian Sea, we should strike dismay into their
army, and set them on thinking that we have a base for our
defensive--for Tarentum is ready to receive us--while they have a wide
sea to cross with all their armament, which could with difficulty keep
its order through so long a voyage, and would be easy for us to attack
as it came on slowly and in small detachments.  On the other hand, if
they were to lighten their vessels, and draw together their fast
sailers and with these attack us, we could either fall upon them
when they were wearied with rowing, or if we did not choose to do
so, we could retire to Tarentum; while they, having crossed with few
provisions just to give battle, would be hard put to it in desolate
places, and would either have to remain and be blockaded, or to try to
sail along the coast, abandoning the rest of their armament, and being
further discouraged by not knowing for certain whether the cities
would receive them.  In my opinion this consideration alone would be
sufficient to deter them from putting out from Corcyra; and what
with deliberating and reconnoitring our numbers and whereabouts,
they would let the season go on until winter was upon them, or,
confounded by so unexpected a circumstance, would break up the
expedition, especially as their most experienced general has, as I
hear, taken the command against his will, and would grasp at the first
excuse offered by any serious demonstration of ours.  We should also be
reported, I am certain, as more numerous than we really are, and men's
minds are affected by what they hear, and besides the first to attack,
or to show that they mean to defend themselves against an attack,
inspire greater fear because men see that they are ready for the
emergency.  This would just be the case with the Athenians at
present.  They are now attacking us in the belief that we shall not
resist, having a right to judge us severely because we did not help
the Lacedaemonians in crushing them; but if they were to see us
showing a courage for which they are not prepared, they would be
more dismayed by the surprise than they could ever be by our actual
power.  I could wish to persuade you to show this courage; but if
this cannot be, at all events lose not a moment in preparing generally
for the war; and remember all of you that contempt for an assailant is
best shown by bravery in action, but that for the present the best
course is to accept the preparations which fear inspires as giving the
surest promise of safety, and to act as if the danger was real.  That
the Athenians are coming to attack us, and are already upon the
voyage, and all but here--this is what I am sure of."

Thus far spoke Hermocrates.  Meanwhile the people of Syracuse were at
great strife among themselves; some contending that the Athenians
had no idea of coming and that there was no truth in what he said;
some asking if they did come what harm they could do that would not be
repaid them tenfold in return; while others made light of the whole
affair and turned it into ridicule.  In short, there were few that
believed Hermocrates and feared for the future.  Meanwhile Athenagoras,
the leader of the people and very powerful at that time with the
masses, came forward and spoke as follows:

"For the Athenians, he who does not wish that they may be as
misguided as they are supposed to be, and that they may come here to
become our subjects, is either a coward or a traitor to his country;
while as for those who carry such tidings and fill you with so much
alarm, I wonder less at their audacity than at their folly if they
flatter themselves that we do not see through them.  The fact is that
they have their private reasons to be afraid, and wish to throw the
city into consternation to have their own terrors cast into the
shade by the public alarm.  In short, this is what these reports are
worth; they do not arise of themselves, but are concocted by men who
are always causing agitation here in Sicily.  However, if you are
well advised, you will not be guided in your calculation of
probabilities by what these persons tell you, but by what shrewd men
and of large experience, as I esteem the Athenians to be, would be
likely to do.  Now it is not likely that they would leave the
Peloponnesians behind them, and before they have well ended the war in
Hellas wantonly come in quest of a new war quite as arduous in Sicily;
indeed, in my judgment, they are only too glad that we do not go and
attack them, being so many and so great cities as we are.

"However, if they should come as is reported, I consider Sicily
better able to go through with the war than Peloponnese, as being at
all points better prepared, and our city by itself far more than a
match for this pretended army of invasion, even were it twice as large
again.  I know that they will not have horses with them, or get any
here, except a few perhaps from the Egestaeans; or be able to bring
a force of heavy infantry equal in number to our own, in ships which
will already have enough to do to come all this distance, however
lightly laden, not to speak of the transport of the other stores
required against a city of this magnitude, which will be no slight
quantity.  In fact, so strong is my opinion upon the subject, that I do
not well see how they could avoid annihilation if they brought with
them another city as large as Syracuse, and settled down and carried
on war from our frontier; much less can they hope to succeed with
all Sicily hostile to them, as all Sicily will be, and with only a
camp pitched from the ships, and composed of tents and bare
necessaries, from which they would not be able to stir far for fear of
our cavalry.

"But the Athenians see this as I tell you, and as I have reason to
know are looking after their possessions at home, while persons here
invent stories that neither are true nor ever will be.  Nor is this the
first time that I see these persons, when they cannot resort to deeds,
trying by such stories and by others even more abominable to
frighten your people and get into their hands the government: it is
what I see always.  And I cannot help fearing that trying so often they
may one day succeed, and that we, as long as we do not feel the smart,
may prove too weak for the task of prevention, or, when the
offenders are known, of pursuit.  The result is that our city is rarely
at rest, but is subject to constant troubles and to contests as
frequent against herself as against the enemy, not to speak of
occasional tyrannies and infamous cabals.  However, I will try, if
you will support me, to let nothing of this happen in our time, by
gaining you, the many, and by chastising the authors of such
machinations, not merely when they are caught in the act--a difficult
feat to accomplish--but also for what they have the wish though not
the power to do; as it is necessary to punish an enemy not only for
what he does, but also beforehand for what he intends to do, if the
first to relax precaution would not be also the first to suffer.  I
shall also reprove, watch, and on occasion warn the few--the most
effectual way, in my opinion, of turning them from their evil courses.
And after all, as I have often asked, what would you have, young men?
Would you hold office at once? The law forbids it, a law enacted
rather because you are not competent than to disgrace you when
competent.  Meanwhile you would not be on a legal equality with the
many! But how can it be right that citizens of the same state should
be held unworthy of the same privileges?

"It will be said, perhaps, that democracy is neither wise nor
equitable, but that the holders of property are also the best fitted
to rule.  I say, on the contrary, first, that the word demos, or
people, includes the whole state, oligarchy only a part; next, that if
the best guardians of property are the rich, and the best
counsellors the wise, none can hear and decide so well as the many;
and that all these talents, severally and collectively, have their
just place in a democracy.  But an oligarchy gives the many their share
of the danger, and not content with the largest part takes and keeps
the whole of the profit; and this is what the powerful and young among
you aspire to, but in a great city cannot possibly obtain.

"But even now, foolish men, most senseless of all the Hellenes
that I know, if you have no sense of the wickedness of your designs,
or most criminal if you have that sense and still dare to pursue
them--even now, if it is not a case for repentance, you may still
learn wisdom, and thus advance the interest of the country, the common
interest of us all.  Reflect that in the country's prosperity the men
of merit in your ranks will have a share and a larger share than the
great mass of your fellow countrymen, but that if you have other
designs you run a risk of being deprived of all; and desist from
reports like these, as the people know your object and will not put up
with it.  If the Athenians arrive, this city will repulse them in a
manner worthy of itself; we have moreover, generals who will see to
this matter.  And if nothing of this be true, as I incline to
believe, the city will not be thrown into a panic by your
intelligence, or impose upon itself a self-chosen servitude by
choosing you for its rulers; the city itself will look into the
matter, and will judge your words as if they were acts, and, instead
of allowing itself to be deprived of its liberty by listening to
you, will strive to preserve that liberty, by taking care to have
always at hand the means of making itself respected."

Such were the words of Athenagoras.  One of the generals now stood up
and stopped any other speakers coming forward, adding these words of
his own with reference to the matter in hand: "It is not well for
speakers to utter calumnies against one another, or for their
hearers to entertain them; we ought rather to look to the intelligence
that we have received, and see how each man by himself and the city as
a whole may best prepare to repel the invaders.  Even if there be no
need, there is no harm in the state being furnished with horses and
arms and all other insignia of war; and we will undertake to see to
and order this, and to send round to the cities to reconnoitre and
do all else that may appear desirable.  Part of this we have seen to
already, and whatever we discover shall be laid before you." After
these words from the general, the Syracusans departed from the
assembly.

In the meantime the Athenians with all their allies had now
arrived at Corcyra.  Here the generals began by again reviewing the
armament, and made arrangements as to the order in which they were
to anchor and encamp, and dividing the whole fleet into three
divisions, allotted one to each of their number, to avoid sailing
all together and being thus embarrassed for water, harbourage, or
provisions at the stations which they might touch at, and at the
same time to be generally better ordered and easier to handle, by each
squadron having its own commander.  Next they sent on three ships to
Italy and Sicily to find out which of the cities would receive them,
with instructions to meet them on the way and let them know before
they put in to land.

After this the Athenians weighed from Corcyra, and proceeded to
cross to Sicily with an armament now consisting of one hundred and
thirty-four galleys in all (besides two Rhodian fifty-oars), of
which one hundred were Athenian vessels--sixty men-of-war, and forty
troopships--and the remainder from Chios and the other allies; five
thousand and one hundred heavy infantry in all, that is to say,
fifteen hundred Athenian citizens from the rolls at Athens and seven
hundred Thetes shipped as marines, and the rest allied troops, some of
them Athenian subjects, and besides these five hundred Argives, and
two hundred and fifty Mantineans serving for hire; four hundred and
eighty archers in all, eighty of whom were Cretans, seven hundred
slingers from Rhodes, one hundred and twenty light-armed exiles from
Megara, and one horse-transport carrying thirty horses.

Such was the strength of the first armament that sailed over for the
war.  The supplies for this force were carried by thirty ships of
burden laden with corn, which conveyed the bakers, stone-masons, and
carpenters, and the tools for raising fortifications, accompanied by
one hundred boats, like the former pressed into the service, besides
many other boats and ships of burden which followed the armament
voluntarily for purposes of trade; all of which now left Corcyra and
struck across the Ionian Sea together.  The whole force making land
at the Iapygian promontory and Tarentum, with more or less good
fortune, coasted along the shores of Italy, the cities shutting
their markets and gates against them, and according them nothing but
water and liberty to anchor, and Tarentum and Locri not even that,
until they arrived at Rhegium, the extreme point of Italy.  Here at
length they reunited, and not gaining admission within the walls
pitched a camp outside the city in the precinct of Artemis, where a
market was also provided for them, and drew their ships on shore and
kept quiet.  Meanwhile they opened negotiations with the Rhegians,
and called upon them as Chalcidians to assist their Leontine
kinsmen; to which the Rhegians replied that they would not side with
either party, but should await the decision of the rest of the
Italiots, and do as they did.  Upon this the Athenians now began to
consider what would be the best action to take in the affairs of
Sicily, and meanwhile waited for the ships sent on to come back from
Egesta, in order to know whether there was really there the money
mentioned by the messengers at Athens.

In the meantime came in from all quarters to the Syracusans, as well
as from their own officers sent to reconnoitre, the positive tidings
that the fleet was at Rhegium; upon which they laid aside their
incredulity and threw themselves heart and soul into the work of
preparation.  Guards or envoys, as the case might be, were sent round
to the Sicels, garrisons put into the posts of the Peripoli in the
country, horses and arms reviewed in the city to see that nothing
was wanting, and all other steps taken to prepare for a war which
might be upon them at any moment.

Meanwhile the three ships that had been sent on came from Egesta
to the Athenians at Rhegium, with the news that so far from there
being the sums promised, all that could be produced was thirty
talents.  The generals were not a little disheartened at being thus
disappointed at the outset, and by the refusal to join in the
expedition of the Rhegians, the people they had first tried to gain
and had had had most reason to count upon, from their relationship
to the Leontines and constant friendship for Athens.  If Nicias was
prepared for the news from Egesta, his two colleagues were taken
completely by surprise.  The Egestaeans had had recourse to the
following stratagem, when the first envoys from Athens came to inspect
their resources.  They took the envoys in question to the temple of
Aphrodite at Eryx and showed them the treasures deposited there:
bowls, wine-ladles, censers, and a large number of other pieces of
plate, which from being in silver gave an impression of wealth quite
out of proportion to their really small value.  They also privately
entertained the ships' crews, and collected all the cups of gold and
silver that they could find in Egesta itself or could borrow in the
neighbouring Phoenician and Hellenic towns, and each brought them to
the banquets as their own; and as all used pretty nearly the same, and
everywhere a great quantity of plate was shown, the effect was most
dazzling upon the Athenian sailors, and made them talk loudly of the
riches they had seen when they got back to Athens.  The dupes in
question--who had in their turn persuaded the rest--when the news got
abroad that there was not the money supposed at Egesta, were much
blamed by the soldiers.

Meanwhile the generals consulted upon what was to be done.  The
opinion of Nicias was to sail with all the armament to Selinus, the
main object of the expedition, and if the Egestaeans could provide
money for the whole force, to advise accordingly; but if they could
not, to require them to supply provisions for the sixty ships that
they had asked for, to stay and settle matters between them and the
Selinuntines either by force or by agreement, and then to coast past
the other cities, and after displaying the power of Athens and proving
their zeal for their friends and allies, to sail home again (unless
they should have some sudden and unexpected opportunity of serving the
Leontines, or of bringing over some of the other cities), and not to
endanger the state by wasting its home resources.

Alcibiades said that a great expedition like the present must not
disgrace itself by going away without having done anything; heralds
must be sent to all the cities except Selinus and Syracuse, and
efforts be made to make some of the Sicels revolt from the Syracusans,
and to obtain the friendship of others, in order to have corn and
troops; and first of all to gain the Messinese, who lay right in the
passage and entrance to Sicily, and would afford an excellent
harbour and base for the army.  Thus, after bringing over the towns and
knowing who would be their allies in the war, they might at length
attack Syracuse and Selinus; unless the latter came to terms with
Egesta and the former ceased to oppose the restoration of Leontini.

Lamachus, on the other hand, said that they ought to sail straight
to Syracuse, and fight their battle at once under the walls of the
town while the people were still unprepared, and the panic at its
height.  Every armament was most terrible at first; if it allowed
time to run on without showing itself, men's courage revived, and they
saw it appear at last almost with indifference.  By attacking suddenly,
while Syracuse still trembled at their coming, they would have the
best chance of gaining a victory for themselves and of striking a
complete panic into the enemy by the aspect of their numbers--which
would never appear so considerable as at present--by the anticipation
of coming disaster, and above all by the immediate danger of the
engagement.  They might also count upon surprising many in the fields
outside, incredulous of their coming; and at the moment that the enemy
was carrying in his property the army would not want for booty if it
sat down in force before the city.  The rest of the Siceliots would
thus be immediately less disposed to enter into alliance with the
Syracusans, and would join the Athenians, without waiting to see which
were the strongest.  They must make Megara their naval station as a
place to retreat to and a base from which to attack: it was an
uninhabited place at no great distance from Syracuse either by land or
by sea.

After speaking to this effect, Lamachus nevertheless gave his
support to the opinion of Alcibiades.  After this Alcibiades sailed
in his own vessel across to Messina with proposals of alliance, but
met with no success, the inhabitants answering that they could not
receive him within their walls, though they would provide him with a
market outside.  Upon this he sailed back to Rhegium.  Immediately
upon his return the generals manned and victualled sixty ships out
of the whole fleet and coasted along to Naxos, leaving the rest of the
armament behind them at Rhegium with one of their number.  Received
by the Naxians, they then coasted on to Catana, and being refused
admittance by the inhabitants, there being a Syracusan party in the
town, went on to the river Terias.  Here they bivouacked, and the
next day sailed in single file to Syracuse with all their ships except
ten which they sent on in front to sail into the great harbour and see
if there was any fleet launched, and to proclaim by herald from
shipboard that the Athenians were come to restore the Leontines to
their country, as being their allies and kinsmen, and that such of
them, therefore, as were in Syracuse should leave it without fear
and join their friends and benefactors the Athenians.  After making
this proclamation and reconnoitring the city and the harbours, and the
features of the country which they would have to make their base of
operations in the war, they sailed back to Catana.

An assembly being held here, the inhabitants refused to receive
the armament, but invited the generals to come in and say what they
desired; and while Alcibiades was speaking and the citizens were
intent on the assembly, the soldiers broke down an ill-walled-up
postern gate without being observed, and getting inside the town,
flocked into the marketplace.  The Syracusan party in the town no
sooner saw the army inside than they became frightened and withdrew,
not being at all numerous; while the rest voted for an alliance with
the Athenians and invited them to fetch the rest of their forces
from Rhegium.  After this the Athenians sailed to Rhegium, and put off,
this time with all the armament, for Catana, and fell to work at their
camp immediately upon their arrival.

Meanwhile word was brought them from Camarina that if they went
there the town would go over to them, and also that the Syracusans
were manning a fleet.  The Athenians accordingly sailed alongshore with
all their armament, first to Syracuse, where they found no fleet
manning, and so always along the coast to Camarina, where they brought
to at the beach, and sent a herald to the people, who, however,
refused to receive them, saying that their oaths bound them to receive
the Athenians only with a single vessel, unless they themselves sent
for more.  Disappointed here, the Athenians now sailed back again,
and after landing and plundering on Syracusan territory and losing
some stragglers from their light infantry through the coming up of the
Syracusan horse, so got back to Catana.

There they found the Salaminia come from Athens for Alcibiades, with
orders for him to sail home to answer the charges which the state
brought against him, and for certain others of the soldiers who with
him were accused of sacrilege in the matter of the mysteries and of
the Hermae.  For the Athenians, after the departure of the
expedition, had continued as active as ever in investigating the facts
of the mysteries and of the Hermae, and, instead of testing the
informers, in their suspicious temper welcomed all indifferently,
arresting and imprisoning the best citizens upon the evidence of
rascals, and preferring to sift the matter to the bottom sooner than
to let an accused person of good character pass unquestioned, owing to
the rascality of the informer.  The commons had heard how oppressive
the tyranny of Pisistratus and his sons had become before it ended,
and further that that had been put down at last, not by themselves and
Harmodius, but by the Lacedaemonians, and so were always in fear and
took everything suspiciously.

Indeed, the daring action of Aristogiton and Harmodius was
undertaken in consequence of a love affair, which I shall relate at
some length, to show that the Athenians are not more accurate than the
rest of the world in their accounts of their own tyrants and of the
facts of their own history.  Pisistratus dying at an advanced age in
possession of the tyranny, was succeeded by his eldest son, Hippias,
and not Hipparchus, as is vulgarly believed.  Harmodius was then in the
flower of youthful beauty, and Aristogiton, a citizen in the middle
rank of life, was his lover and possessed him.  Solicited without
success by Hipparchus, son of Pisistratus, Harmodius told Aristogiton,
and the enraged lover, afraid that the powerful Hipparchus might
take Harmodius by force, immediately formed a design, such as his
condition in life permitted, for overthrowing the tyranny.  In the
meantime Hipparchus, after a second solicitation of Harmodius,
attended with no better success, unwilling to use violence, arranged
to insult him in some covert way.  Indeed, generally their government
was not grievous to the multitude, or in any way odious in practice;
and these tyrants cultivated wisdom and virtue as much as any, and
without exacting from the Athenians more than a twentieth of their
income, splendidly adorned their city, and carried on their wars,
and provided sacrifices for the temples.  For the rest, the city was
left in full enjoyment of its existing laws, except that care was
always taken to have the offices in the hands of some one of the
family.  Among those of them that held the yearly archonship at
Athens was Pisistratus, son of the tyrant Hippias, and named after his
grandfather, who dedicated during his term of office the altar to
the twelve gods in the market-place, and that of Apollo in the Pythian
precinct.  The Athenian people afterwards built on to and lengthened
the altar in the market-place, and obliterated the inscription; but
that in the Pythian precinct can still be seen, though in faded
letters, and is to the following effect:

Pisistratus, the son of Hippias,
Sent up this record of his archonship
In precinct of Apollo Pythias.

That Hippias was the eldest son and succeeded to the government,
is what I positively assert as a fact upon which I have had more exact
accounts than others, and may be also ascertained by the following
circumstance.  He is the only one of the legitimate brothers that
appears to have had children; as the altar shows, and the pillar
placed in the Athenian Acropolis, commemorating the crime of the
tyrants, which mentions no child of Thessalus or of Hipparchus, but
five of Hippias, which he had by Myrrhine, daughter of Callias, son of
Hyperechides; and naturally the eldest would have married first.
Again, his name comes first on the pillar after that of his father;
and this too is quite natural, as he was the eldest after him, and the
reigning tyrant.  Nor can I ever believe that Hippias would have
obtained the tyranny so easily, if Hipparchus had been in power when
he was killed, and he, Hippias, had had to establish himself upon
the same day; but he had no doubt been long accustomed to overawe
the citizens, and to be obeyed by his mercenaries, and thus not only
conquered, but conquered with ease, without experiencing any of the
embarrassment of a younger brother unused to the exercise of
authority.  It was the sad fate which made Hipparchus famous that got
him also the credit with posterity of having been tyrant.

To return to Harmodius; Hipparchus having been repulsed in his
solicitations insulted him as he had resolved, by first inviting a
sister of his, a young girl, to come and bear a basket in a certain
procession, and then rejecting her, on the plea that she had never
been invited at all owing to her unworthiness.  If Harmodius was
indignant at this, Aristogiton for his sake now became more
exasperated than ever; and having arranged everything with those who
were to join them in the enterprise, they only waited for the great
feast of the Panathenaea, the sole day upon which the citizens forming
part of the procession could meet together in arms without
suspicion.  Aristogiton and Harmodius were to begin, but were to be
supported immediately by their accomplices against the bodyguard.
The conspirators were not many, for better security, besides which
they hoped that those not in the plot would be carried away by the
example of a few daring spirits, and use the arms in their hands to
recover their liberty.

At last the festival arrived; and Hippias with his bodyguard was
outside the city in the Ceramicus, arranging how the different parts
of the procession were to proceed.  Harmodius and Aristogiton had
already their daggers and were getting ready to act, when seeing one
of their accomplices talking familiarly with Hippias, who was easy
of access to every one, they took fright, and concluded that they were
discovered and on the point of being taken; and eager if possible to
be revenged first upon the man who had wronged them and for whom
they had undertaken all this risk, they rushed, as they were, within
the gates, and meeting with Hipparchus by the Leocorium recklessly
fell upon him at once, infuriated, Aristogiton by love, and
Harmodius by insult, and smote him and slew him.  Aristogiton escaped
the guards at the moment, through the crowd running up, but was
afterwards taken and dispatched in no merciful way: Harmodius was
killed on the spot.

When the news was brought to Hippias in the Ceramicus, he at once
proceeded not to the scene of action, but to the armed men in the
procession, before they, being some distance away, knew anything of
the matter, and composing his features for the occasion, so as not
to betray himself, pointed to a certain spot, and bade them repair
thither without their arms.  They withdrew accordingly, fancying he had
something to say; upon which he told the mercenaries to remove the
arms, and there and then picked out the men he thought guilty and
all found with daggers, the shield and spear being the usual weapons
for a procession.

In this way offended love first led Harmodius and Aristogiton to
conspire, and the alarm of the moment to commit the rash action
recounted.  After this the tyranny pressed harder on the Athenians, and
Hippias, now grown more fearful, put to death many of the citizens,
and at the same time began to turn his eyes abroad for a refuge in
case of revolution.  Thus, although an Athenian, he gave his
daughter, Archedice, to a Lampsacene, Aeantides, son of the tyrant
of Lampsacus, seeing that they had great influence with Darius.  And
there is her tomb in Lampsacus with this inscription:

Archedice lies buried in this earth,
Hippias her sire, and Athens gave her birth;
Unto her bosom pride was never known,
Though daughter, wife, and sister to the throne.

Hippias, after reigning three years longer over the Athenians, was
deposed in the fourth by the Lacedaemonians and the banished
Alcmaeonidae, and went with a safe conduct to Sigeum, and to Aeantides
at Lampsacus, and from thence to King Darius; from whose court he
set out twenty years after, in his old age, and came with the Medes to
Marathon.

With these events in their minds, and recalling everything they knew
by hearsay on the subject, the Athenian people grow difficult of
humour and suspicious of the persons charged in the affair of the
mysteries, and persuaded that all that had taken place was part of
an oligarchical and monarchical conspiracy.  In the state of irritation
thus produced, many persons of consideration had been already thrown
into prison, and far from showing any signs of abating, public feeling
grew daily more savage, and more arrests were made; until at last
one of those in custody, thought to be the most guilty of all, was
induced by a fellow prisoner to make a revelation, whether true or not
is a matter on which there are two opinions, no one having been
able, either then or since, to say for certain who did the deed.
However this may be, the other found arguments to persuade him, that
even if he had not done it, he ought to save himself by gaining a
promise of impunity, and free the state of its present suspicions;
as he would be surer of safety if he confessed after promise of
impunity than if he denied and were brought to trial.  He accordingly
made a revelation, affecting himself and others in the affair of the
Hermae; and the Athenian people, glad at last, as they supposed, to
get at the truth, and furious until then at not being able to discover
those who had conspired against the commons, at once let go the
informer and all the rest whom he had not denounced, and bringing
the accused to trial executed as many as were apprehended, and
condemned to death such as had fled and set a price upon their
heads.  In this it was, after all, not clear whether the sufferers
had been punished unjustly, while in any case the rest of the city
received immediate and manifest relief.

To return to Alcibiades: public feeling was very hostile to him,
being worked on by the same enemies who had attacked him before he
went out; and now that the Athenians fancied that they had got at
the truth of the matter of the Hermae, they believed more firmly
than ever that the affair of the mysteries also, in which he was
implicated, had been contrived by him in the same intention and was
connected with the plot against the democracy.  Meanwhile it so
happened that, just at the time of this agitation, a small force of
Lacedaemonians had advanced as far as the Isthmus, in pursuance of
some scheme with the Boeotians.  It was now thought that this had
come by appointment, at his instigation, and not on account of the
Boeotians, and that, if the citizens had not acted on the
information received, and forestalled them by arresting the prisoners,
the city would have been betrayed.  The citizens went so far as to
sleep one night armed in the temple of Theseus within the walls.  The
friends also of Alcibiades at Argos were just at this time suspected
of a design to attack the commons; and the Argive hostages deposited
in the islands were given up by the Athenians to the Argive people
to be put to death upon that account: in short, everywhere something
was found to create suspicion against Alcibiades.  It was therefore
decided to bring him to trial and execute him, and the Salaminia was
sent to Sicily for him and the others named in the information, with
instructions to order him to come and answer the charges against
him, but not to arrest him, because they wished to avoid causing any
agitation in the army or among the enemy in Sicily, and above all to
retain the services of the Mantineans and Argives, who, it was
thought, had been induced to join by his influence.  Alcibiades, with
his own ship and his fellow accused, accordingly sailed off with the
Salaminia from Sicily, as though to return to Athens, and went with
her as far as Thurii, and there they left the ship and disappeared,
being afraid to go home for trial with such a prejudice existing
against them.  The crew of the Salaminia stayed some time looking for
Alcibiades and his companions, and at length, as they were nowhere
to be found, set sail and departed.  Alcibiades, now an outlaw, crossed
in a boat not long after from Thurii to Peloponnese; and the Athenians
passed sentence of death by default upon him and those in his company.




CHAPTER XX

_Seventeenth and Eighteenth Years of the War - Inaction of
the Athenian Army - Alcibiades at Sparta - Investment of Syracuse_

The Athenian generals left in Sicily now divided the armament into
two parts, and, each taking one by lot, sailed with the whole for
Selinus and Egesta, wishing to know whether the Egestaeans would
give the money, and to look into the question of Selinus and ascertain
the state of the quarrel between her and Egesta.  Coasting along
Sicily, with the shore on their left, on the side towards the Tyrrhene
Gulf they touched at Himera, the only Hellenic city in that part of
the island, and being refused admission resumed their voyage.  On their
way they took Hyccara, a petty Sicanian seaport, nevertheless at war
with Egesta, and making slaves of the inhabitants gave up the town
to the Egestaeans, some of whose horse had joined them; after which
the army proceeded through the territory of the Sicels until it
reached Catana, while the fleet sailed along the coast with the slaves
on board.  Meanwhile Nicias sailed straight from Hyccara along the
coast and went to Egesta and, after transacting his other business and
receiving thirty talents, rejoined the forces.  They now sold their
slaves for the sum of one hundred and twenty talents, and sailed round
to their Sicel allies to urge them to send troops; and meanwhile
went with half their own force to the hostile town of Hybla in the
territory of Gela, but did not succeed in taking it.

Summer was now over.  The winter following, the Athenians at once
began to prepare for moving on Syracuse, and the Syracusans on their
side for marching against them.  From the moment when the Athenians
failed to attack them instantly as they at first feared and
expected, every day that passed did something to revive their courage;
and when they saw them sailing far away from them on the other side of
Sicily, and going to Hybla only to fail in their attempts to storm it,
they thought less of them than ever, and called upon their generals,
as the multitude is apt to do in its moments of confidence, to lead
them to Catana, since the enemy would not come to them.  Parties also
of the Syracusan horse employed in reconnoitring constantly rode up to
the Athenian armament, and among other insults asked them whether they
had not really come to settle with the Syracusans in a foreign country
rather than to resettle the Leontines in their own.

Aware of this, the Athenian generals determined to draw them out
in mass as far as possible from the city, and themselves in the
meantime to sail by night alongshore, and take up at their leisure a
convenient position.  This they knew they could not so well do, if they
had to disembark from their ships in front of a force prepared for
them, or to go by land openly.  The numerous cavalry of the
Syracusans (a force which they were themselves without) would then
be able to do the greatest mischief to their light troops and the
crowd that followed them; but this plan would enable them to take up a
position in which the horse could do them no hurt worth speaking of,
some Syracusan exiles with the army having told them of the spot
near the Olympieum, which they afterwards occupied.  In pursuance of
their idea, the generals imagined the following stratagem.  They sent
to Syracuse a man devoted to them, and by the Syracusan generals
thought to be no less in their interest; he was a native of Catana,
and said he came from persons in that place, whose names the Syracusan
generals were acquainted with, and whom they knew to be among the
members of their party still left in the city.  He told them that the
Athenians passed the night in the town, at some distance from their
arms, and that if the Syracusans would name a day and come with all
their people at daybreak to attack the armament, they, their
friends, would close the gates upon the troops in the city, and set
fire to the vessels, while the Syracusans would easily take the camp
by an attack upon the stockade.  In this they would be aided by many of
the Catanians, who were already prepared to act, and from whom he
himself came.

The generals of the Syracusans, who did not want confidence, and who
had intended even without this to march on Catana, believed the man
without any sufficient inquiry, fixed at once a day upon which they
would be there, and dismissed him, and the Selinuntines and others
of their allies having now arrived, gave orders for all the Syracusans
to march out in mass.  Their preparations completed, and the time fixed
for their arrival being at hand, they set out for Catana, and passed
the night upon the river Symaethus, in the Leontine territory.
Meanwhile the Athenians no sooner knew of their approach than they
took all their forces and such of the Sicels or others as had joined
them, put them on board their ships and boats, and sailed by night
to Syracuse.  Thus, when morning broke the Athenians were landing
opposite the Olympieum ready to seize their camping ground, and the
Syracusan horse having ridden up first to Catana and found that all
the armament had put to sea, turned back and told the infantry, and
then all turned back together, and went to the relief of the city.

In the meantime, as the march before the Syracusans was a long
one, the Athenians quietly sat down their army in a convenient
position, where they could begin an engagement when they pleased,
and where the Syracusan cavalry would have least opportunity of
annoying them, either before or during the action, being fenced off on
one side by walls, houses, trees, and by a marsh, and on the other
by cliffs.  They also felled the neighbouring trees and carried them
down to the sea, and formed a palisade alongside of their ships, and
with stones which they picked up and wood hastily raised a fort at
Daskon, the most vulnerable point of their position, and broke down
the bridge over the Anapus.  These preparations were allowed to go on
without any interruption from the city, the first hostile force to
appear being the Syracusan cavalry, followed afterwards by all the
foot together.  At first they came close up to the Athenian army, and
then, finding that they did not offer to engage, crossed the
Helorine road and encamped for the night.

The next day the Athenians and their allies prepared for battle,
their dispositions being as follows: Their right wing was occupied
by the Argives and Mantineans, the centre by the Athenians, and the
rest of the field by the other allies.  Half their army was drawn up
eight deep in advance, half close to their tents in a hollow square,
formed also eight deep, which had orders to look out and be ready to
go to the support of the troops hardest pressed.  The camp followers
were placed inside this reserve.  The Syracusans, meanwhile, formed
their heavy infantry sixteen deep, consisting of the mass levy of
their own people, and such allies as had joined them, the strongest
contingent being that of the Selinuntines; next to them the cavalry of
the Geloans, numbering two hundred in all, with about twenty horse and
fifty archers from Camarina.  The cavalry was posted on their right,
full twelve hundred strong, and next to it the darters.  As the
Athenians were about to begin the attack, Nicias went along the lines,
and addressed these words of encouragement to the army and the nations
composing it:

"Soldiers, a long exhortation is little needed by men like
ourselves, who are here to fight in the same battle, the force
itself being, to my thinking, more fit to inspire confidence than a
fine speech with a weak army.  Where we have Argives, Mantineans,
Athenians, and the first of the islanders in the ranks together, it
were strange indeed, with so many and so brave companions in arms,
if we did not feel confident of victory; especially when we have
mass levies opposed to our picked troops, and what is more, Siceliots,
who may disdain us but will not stand against us, their skill not
being at all commensurate to their rashness.  You may also remember
that we are far from home and have no friendly land near, except
what your own swords shall win you; and here I put before you a motive
just the reverse of that which the enemy are appealing to; their cry
being that they shall fight for their country, mine that we shall
fight for a country that is not ours, where we must conquer or
hardly get away, as we shall have their horse upon us in great
numbers.  Remember, therefore, your renown, and go boldly against the
enemy, thinking the present strait and necessity more terrible than
they."

After this address Nicias at once led on the army.  The Syracusans
were not at that moment expecting an immediate engagement, and some
had even gone away to the town, which was close by; these now ran up
as hard as they could and, though behind time, took their places
here or there in the main body as fast as they joined it.  Want of zeal
or daring was certainly not the fault of the Syracusans, either in
this or the other battles, but although not inferior in courage, so
far as their military science might carry them, when this failed
them they were compelled to give up their resolution also.  On the
present occasion, although they had not supposed that the Athenians
would begin the attack, and although constrained to stand upon their
defence at short notice, they at once took up their arms and
advanced to meet them.  First, the stone-throwers, slingers, and
archers of either army began skirmishing, and routed or were routed by
one another, as might be expected between light troops; next,
soothsayers brought forward the usual victims, and trumpeters urged on
the heavy infantry to the charge; and thus they advanced, the
Syracusans to fight for their country, and each individual for his
safety that day and liberty hereafter; in the enemy's army, the
Athenians to make another's country theirs and to save their own
from suffering by their defeat; the Argives and independent allies
to help them in getting what they came for, and to earn by victory
another sight of the country they had left behind; while the subject
allies owed most of their ardour to the desire of self-preservation,
which they could only hope for if victorious; next to which, as a
secondary motive, came the chance of serving on easier terms, after
helping the Athenians to a fresh conquest.

The armies now came to close quarters, and for a long while fought
without either giving ground.  Meanwhile there occurred some claps of
thunder with lightning and heavy rain, which did not fail to add to
the fears of the party fighting for the first time, and very little
acquainted with war; while to their more experienced adversaries these
phenomena appeared to be produced by the time of year, and much more
alarm was felt at the continued resistance of the enemy.  At last the
Argives drove in the Syracusan left, and after them the Athenians
routed the troops opposed to them, and the Syracusan army was thus cut
in two and betook itself to flight.  The Athenians did not pursue
far, being held in check by the numerous and undefeated Syracusan
horse, who attacked and drove back any of their heavy infantry whom
they saw pursuing in advance of the rest; in spite of which the
victors followed so far as was safe in a body, and then went back
and set up a trophy.  Meanwhile the Syracusans rallied at the
Helorine road, where they re-formed as well as they could under the
circumstances, and even sent a garrison of their own citizens to the
Olympieum, fearing that the Athenians might lay hands on some of the
treasures there.  The rest returned to the town.

The Athenians, however, did not go to the temple, but collected
their dead and laid them upon a pyre, and passed the night upon the
field.  The next day they gave the enemy back their dead under truce,
to the number of about two hundred and sixty, Syracusans and allies,
and gathered together the bones of their own, some fifty, Athenians
and allies, and taking the spoils of the enemy, sailed back to Catana.
It was now winter; and it did not seem possible for the moment to
carry on the war before Syracuse, until horse should have been sent
for from Athens and levied among the allies in Sicily--to do away
with their utter inferiority in cavalry--and money should have been
collected in the country and received from Athens, and until some of
the cities, which they hoped would be now more disposed to listen to
them after the battle, should have been brought over, and corn and all
other necessaries provided, for a campaign in the spring against
Syracuse.

With this intention they sailed off to Naxos and Catana for the
winter.  Meanwhile the Syracusans burned their dead and then held an
assembly, in which Hermocrates, son of Hermon, a man who with a
general ability of the first order had given proofs of military
capacity and brilliant courage in the war, came forward and encouraged
them, and told them not to let what had occurred make them give way,
since their spirit had not been conquered, but their want of
discipline had done the mischief.  Still they had not been beaten by so
much as might have been expected, especially as they were, one might
say, novices in the art of war, an army of artisans opposed to the
most practised soldiers in Hellas.  What had also done great mischief
was the number of the generals (there were fifteen of them) and the
quantity of orders given, combined with the disorder and
insubordination of the troops.  But if they were to have a few
skilful generals, and used this winter in preparing their heavy
infantry, finding arms for such as had not got any, so as to make them
as numerous as possible, and forcing them to attend to their
training generally, they would have every chance of beating their
adversaries, courage being already theirs and discipline in the
field having thus been added to it.  Indeed, both these qualities would
improve, since danger would exercise them in discipline, while their
courage would be led to surpass itself by the confidence which skill
inspires.  The generals should be few and elected with full powers, and
an oath should be taken to leave them entire discretion in their
command: if they adopted this plan, their secrets would be better
kept, all preparations would be properly made, and there would be no
room for excuses.

The Syracusans heard him, and voted everything as he advised, and
elected three generals, Hermocrates himself, Heraclides, son of
Lysimachus, and Sicanus, son of Execestes.  They also sent envoys to
Corinth and Lacedaemon to procure a force of allies to join them,
and to induce the Lacedaemonians for their sakes openly to address
themselves in real earnest to the war against the Athenians, that they
might either have to leave Sicily or be less able to send
reinforcements to their army there.

The Athenian forces at Catana now at once sailed against Messina, in
the expectation of its being betrayed to them.  The intrigue,
however, after all came to nothing: Alcibiades, who was in the secret,
when he left his command upon the summons from home, foreseeing that
he would be outlawed, gave information of the plot to the friends of
the Syracusans in Messina, who had at once put to death its authors,
and now rose in arms against the opposite faction with those of
their way of thinking, and succeeded in preventing the admission of
the Athenians.  The latter waited for thirteen days, and then, as
they were exposed to the weather and without provisions, and met
with no success, went back to Naxos, where they made places for
their ships to lie in, erected a palisade round their camp, and
retired into winter quarters; meanwhile they sent a galley to Athens
for money and cavalry to join them in the spring.  During the winter
the Syracusans built a wall on to the city, so as to take in the
statue of Apollo Temenites, all along the side looking towards
Epipolae, to make the task of circumvallation longer and more
difficult, in case of their being defeated, and also erected a fort at
Megara and another in the Olympieum, and stuck palisades along the sea
wherever there was a landing Place.  Meanwhile, as they knew that the
Athenians were wintering at Naxos, they marched with all their
people to Catana, and ravaged the land and set fire to the tents and
encampment of the Athenians, and so returned home.  Learning also
that the Athenians were sending an embassy to Camarina, on the
strength of the alliance concluded in the time of Laches, to gain,
if possible, that city, they sent another from Syracuse to oppose
them.  They had a shrewd suspicion that the Camarinaeans had not sent
what they did send for the first battle very willingly; and they now
feared that they would refuse to assist them at all in future, after
seeing the success of the Athenians in the action, and would join
the latter on the strength of their old friendship.  Hermocrates,
with some others, accordingly arrived at Camarina from Syracuse, and
Euphemus and others from the Athenians; and an assembly of the
Camarinaeans having been convened, Hermocrates spoke as follows, in
the hope of prejudicing them against the Athenians:

"Camarinaeans, we did not come on this embassy because we were
afraid of your being frightened by the actual forces of the Athenians,
but rather of your being gained by what they would say to you before
you heard anything from us.  They are come to Sicily with the pretext
that you know, and the intention which we all suspect, in my opinion
less to restore the Leontines to their homes than to oust us from
ours; as it is out of all reason that they should restore in Sicily
the cities that they lay waste in Hellas, or should cherish the
Leontine Chalcidians because of their Ionian blood and keep in
servitude the Euboean Chalcidians, of whom the Leontines are a colony.
No; but the same policy which has proved so successful in Hellas is
now being tried in Sicily.  After being chosen as the leaders of the
Ionians and of the other allies of Athenian origin, to punish the
Mede, the Athenians accused some of failure in military service,
some of fighting against each other, and others, as the case might be,
upon any colourable pretext that could be found, until they thus
subdued them all.  In fine, in the struggle against the Medes, the
Athenians did not fight for the liberty of the Hellenes, or the
Hellenes for their own liberty, but the former to make their
countrymen serve them instead of him, the latter to change one
master for another, wiser indeed than the first, but wiser for evil.

"But we are not now come to declare to an audience familiar with
them the misdeeds of a state so open to accusation as is the Athenian,
but much rather to blame ourselves, who, with the warnings we
possess in the Hellenes in those parts that have been enslaved through
not supporting each other, and seeing the same sophisms being now
tried upon ourselves--such as restorations of Leontine kinsfolk and
support of Egestaean allies--do not stand together and resolutely
show them that here are no Ionians, or Hellespontines, or islanders,
who change continually, but always serve a master, sometimes the
Mede and sometimes some other, but free Dorians from independent
Peloponnese, dwelling in Sicily.  Or, are we waiting until we be
taken in detail, one city after another; knowing as we do that in no
other way can we be conquered, and seeing that they turn to this plan,
so as to divide some of us by words, to draw some by the bait of an
alliance into open war with each other, and to ruin others by such
flattery as different circumstances may render acceptable? And do we
fancy when destruction first overtakes a distant fellow countryman
that the danger will not come to each of us also, or that he who
suffers before us will suffer in himself alone?

"As for the Camarinaean who says that it is the Syracusan, not he,
that is the enemy of the Athenian, and who thinks it hard to have to
encounter risk in behalf of my country, I would have him bear in
mind that he will fight in my country, not more for mine than for
his own, and by so much the more safely in that he will enter on the
struggle not alone, after the way has been cleared by my ruin, but
with me as his ally, and that the object of the Athenian is not so
much to punish the enmity of the Syracusan as to use me as a blind
to secure the friendship of the Camarinaean.  As for him who envies
or even fears us (and envied and feared great powers must always
be), and who on this account wishes Syracuse to be humbled to teach us
a lesson, but would still have her survive, in the interest of his own
security the wish that he indulges is not humanly possible.  A man
can control his own desires, but he cannot likewise control
circumstances; and in the event of his calculations proving
mistaken, he may live to bewail his own misfortune, and wish to be
again envying my prosperity.  An idle wish, if he now sacrifice us
and refuse to take his share of perils which are the same, in
reality though not in name, for him as for us; what is nominally the
preservation of our power being really his own salvation.  It was to be
expected that you, of all people in the world, Camarinaeans, being our
immediate neighbours and the next in danger, would have foreseen this,
and instead of supporting us in the lukewarm way that you are now
doing, would rather come to us of your own accord, and be now offering
at Syracuse the aid which you would have asked for at Camarina, if
to Camarina the Athenians had first come, to encourage us to resist
the invader.  Neither you, however, nor the rest have as yet
bestirred yourselves in this direction.

"Fear perhaps will make you study to do right both by us and by
the invaders, and plead that you have an alliance with the
Athenians.  But you made that alliance, not against your friends, but
against the enemies that might attack you, and to help the Athenians
when they were wronged by others, not when as now they are wronging
their neighbours.  Even the Rhegians, Chalcidians though they be,
refuse to help to restore the Chalcidian Leontines; and it would be
strange if, while they suspect the gist of this fine pretence and
are wise without reason, you, with every reason on your side, should
yet choose to assist your natural enemies, and should join with
their direst foes in undoing those whom nature has made your own
kinsfolk.  This is not to do right; but you should help us without fear
of their armament, which has no terrors if we hold together, but
only if we let them succeed in their endeavours to separate us;
since even after attacking us by ourselves and being victorious in
battle, they had to go off without effecting their purpose.

"United, therefore, we have no cause to despair, but rather new
encouragement to league together; especially as succour will come to
us from the Peloponnesians, in military matters the undoubted
superiors of the Athenians.  And you need not think that your prudent
policy of taking sides with neither, because allies of both, is either
safe for you or fair to us.  Practically it is not as fair as it
pretends to be.  If the vanquished be defeated, and the victor conquer,
through your refusing to join, what is the effect of your abstention
but to leave the former to perish unaided, and to allow the latter
to offend unhindered? And yet it were more honourable to join those
who are not only the injured party, but your own kindred, and by so
doing to defend the common interests of Sicily and save your friends
the Athenians from doing wrong.

"In conclusion, we Syracusans say that it is useless for us to
demonstrate either to you or to the rest what you know already as well
as we do; but we entreat, and if our entreaty fail, we protest that we
are menaced by our eternal enemies the Ionians, and are betrayed by
you our fellow Dorians.  If the Athenians reduce us, they will owe
their victory to your decision, but in their own name will reap the
honour, and will receive as the prize of their triumph the very men
who enabled them to gain it.  On the other hand, if we are the
conquerors, you will have to pay for having been the cause of our
danger.  Consider, therefore; and now make your choice between the
security which present servitude offers and the prospect of conquering
with us and so escaping disgraceful submission to an Athenian master
and avoiding the lasting enmity of Syracuse."

Such were the words of Hermocrates; after whom Euphemus, the
Athenian ambassador, spoke as follows:

"Although we came here only to renew the former alliance, the attack
of the Syracusans compels us to speak of our empire and of the good
right we have to it.  The best proof of this the speaker himself
furnished, when he called the Ionians eternal enemies of the
Dorians.  It is the fact; and the Peloponnesian Dorians being our
superiors in numbers and next neighbours, we Ionians looked out for
the best means of escaping their domination.  After the Median War we
had a fleet, and so got rid of the empire and supremacy of the
Lacedaemonians, who had no right to give orders to us more than we
to them, except that of being the strongest at that moment; and
being appointed leaders of the King's former subjects, we continue
to be so, thinking that we are least likely to fall under the dominion
of the Peloponnesians, if we have a force to defend ourselves with,
and in strict truth having done nothing unfair in reducing to
subjection the Ionians and islanders, the kinsfolk whom the Syracusans
say we have enslaved.  They, our kinsfolk, came against their mother
country, that is to say against us, together with the Mede, and,
instead of having the courage to revolt and sacrifice their property
as we did when we abandoned our city, chose to be slaves themselves,
and to try to make us so.

"We, therefore, deserve to rule because we placed the largest
fleet and an unflinching patriotism at the service of the Hellenes,
and because these, our subjects, did us mischief by their ready
subservience to the Medes; and, desert apart, we seek to strengthen
ourselves against the Peloponnesians.  We make no fine profession of
having a right to rule because we overthrew the barbarian
single-handed, or because we risked what we did risk for the freedom
of the subjects in question any more than for that of all, and for our
own: no one can be quarrelled with for providing for his proper
safety.  If we are now here in Sicily, it is equally in the interest of
our security, with which we perceive that your interest also
coincides.  We prove this from the conduct which the Syracusans cast
against us and which you somewhat too timorously suspect; knowing that
those whom fear has made suspicious may be carried away by the charm
of eloquence for the moment, but when they come to act follow their
interests.

"Now, as we have said, fear makes us hold our empire in Hellas,
and fear makes us now come, with the help of our friends, to order
safely matters in Sicily, and not to enslave any but rather to prevent
any from being enslaved.  Meanwhile, let no one imagine that we are
interesting ourselves in you without your having anything to do with
us, seeing that, if you are preserved and able to make head against
the Syracusans, they will be less likely to harm us by sending
troops to the Peloponnesians.  In this way you have everything to do
with us, and on this account it is perfectly reasonable for us to
restore the Leontines, and to make them, not subjects like their
kinsmen in Euboea, but as powerful as possible, to help us by annoying
the Syracusans from their frontier.  In Hellas we are alone a match for
our enemies; and as for the assertion that it is out of all reason
that we should free the Sicilian, while we enslave the Chalcidian, the
fact is that the latter is useful to us by being without arms and
contributing money only; while the former, the Leontines and our other
friends, cannot be too independent.

"Besides, for tyrants and imperial cities nothing is unreasonable if
expedient, no one a kinsman unless sure; but friendship or enmity is
everywhere an affair of time and circumstance.  Here, in Sicily, our
interest is not to weaken our friends, but by means of their
strength to cripple our enemies.  Why doubt this? In Hellas we treat
our allies as we find them useful.  The Chians and Methymnians govern
themselves and furnish ships; most of the rest have harder terms and
pay tribute in money; while others, although islanders and easy for us
to take, are free altogether, because they occupy convenient positions
round Peloponnese.  In our settlement of the states here in Sicily,
we should therefore; naturally be guided by our interest, and by fear,
as we say, of the Syracusans.  Their ambition is to rule you, their
object to use the suspicions that we excite to unite you, and then,
when we have gone away without effecting anything, by force or through
your isolation, to become the masters of Sicily.  And masters they must
become, if you unite with them; as a force of that magnitude would
be no longer easy for us to deal with united, and they would be more
than a match for you as soon as we were away.

"Any other view of the case is condemned by the facts.  When you
first asked us over, the fear which you held out was that of danger to
Athens if we let you come under the dominion of Syracuse; and it is
not right now to mistrust the very same argument by which you
claimed to convince us, or to give way to suspicion because we are
come with a larger force against the power of that city.  Those whom
you should really distrust are the Syracusans.  We are not able to stay
here without you, and if we proved perfidious enough to bring you into
subjection, we should be unable to keep you in bondage, owing to the
length of the voyage and the difficulty of guarding large, and in a
military sense continental, towns: they, the Syracusans, live close to
you, not in a camp, but in a city greater than the force we have
with us, plot always against you, never let slip an opportunity once
offered, as they have shown in the case of the Leontines and others,
and now have the face, just as if you were fools, to invite you to aid
them against the power that hinders this, and that has thus far
maintained Sicily independent.  We, as against them, invite you to a
much more real safety, when we beg you not to betray that common
safety which we each have in the other, and to reflect that they, even
without allies, will, by their numbers, have always the way open to
you, while you will not often have the opportunity of defending
yourselves with such numerous auxiliaries; if, through your
suspicions, you once let these go away unsuccessful or defeated, you
will wish to see if only a handful of them back again, when the day is
past in which their presence could do anything for you.

"But we hope, Camarinaeans, that the calumnies of the Syracusans
will not be allowed to succeed either with you or with the rest: we
have told you the whole truth upon the things we are suspected of, and
will now briefly recapitulate, in the hope of convincing you.  We
assert that we are rulers in Hellas in order not to be subjects;
liberators in Sicily that we may not be harmed by the Sicilians;
that we are compelled to interfere in many things, because we have
many things to guard against; and that now, as before, we are come
as allies to those of you who suffer wrong in this island, not without
invitation but upon invitation.  Accordingly, instead of making
yourselves judges or censors of our conduct, and trying to turn us,
which it were now difficult to do, so far as there is anything in
our interfering policy or in our character that chimes in with your
interest, this take and make use of; and be sure that, far from
being injurious to all alike, to most of the Hellenes that policy is
even beneficial.  Thanks to it, all men in all places, even where we
are not, who either apprehend or meditate aggression, from the near
prospect before them, in the one case, of obtaining our intervention
in their favour, in the other, of our arrival making the venture
dangerous, find themselves constrained, respectively, to be moderate
against their will, and to be preserved without trouble of their
own.  Do not you reject this security that is open to all who desire
it, and is now offered to you; but do like others, and instead of
being always on the defensive against the Syracusans, unite with us,
and in your turn at last threaten them."

Such were the words of Euphemus.  What the Camarinaeans felt was
this.  Sympathizing with the Athenians, except in so far as they
might be afraid of their subjugating Sicily, they had always been at
enmity with their neighbour Syracuse.  From the very fact, however,
that they were their neighbours, they feared the Syracusans most of
the two, and being apprehensive of their conquering even without them,
both sent them in the first instance the few horsemen mentioned, and
for the future determined to support them most in fact, although as
sparingly as possible; but for the moment in order not to seem to
slight the Athenians, especially as they had been successful in the
engagement, to answer both alike.  Agreeably to this resolution they
answered that as both the contending parties happened to be allies
of theirs, they thought it most consistent with their oaths at present
to side with neither; with which answer the ambassadors of either
party departed.

In the meantime, while Syracuse pursued her preparations for war,
the Athenians were encamped at Naxos, and tried by negotiation to gain
as many of the Sicels as possible.  Those more in the low lands, and
subjects of Syracuse, mostly held aloof; but the peoples of the
interior who had never been otherwise than independent, with few
exceptions, at once joined the Athenians, and brought down corn to the
army, and in some cases even money.  The Athenians marched against
those who refused to join, and forced some of them to do so; in the
case of others they were stopped by the Syracusans sending garrisons
and reinforcements.  Meanwhile the Athenians moved their winter
quarters from Naxos to Catana, and reconstructed the camp burnt by the
Syracusans, and stayed there the rest of the winter.  They also sent
a galley to Carthage, with proffers of friendship, on the chance of
obtaining assistance, and another to Tyrrhenia; some of the cities
there having spontaneously offered to join them in the war.  They
also sent round to the Sicels and to Egesta, desiring them to send
them as many horses as possible, and meanwhile prepared bricks,
iron, and all other things necessary for the work of
circumvallation, intending by the spring to begin hostilities.

In the meantime the Syracusan envoys dispatched to Corinth and
Lacedaemon tried as they passed along the coast to persuade the
Italiots to interfere with the proceedings of the Athenians, which
threatened Italy quite as much as Syracuse, and having arrived at
Corinth made a speech calling on the Corinthians to assist them on the
ground of their common origin.  The Corinthians voted at once to aid
them heart and soul themselves, and then sent on envoys with them to
Lacedaemon, to help them to persuade her also to prosecute the war
with the Athenians more openly at home and to send succours to Sicily.
The envoys from Corinth having reached Lacedaemon found there
Alcibiades with his fellow refugees, who had at once crossed over in a
trading vessel from Thurii, first to Cyllene in Elis, and afterwards
from thence to Lacedaemon; upon the Lacedaemonians' own invitation,
after first obtaining a safe conduct, as he feared them for the part
he had taken in the affair of Mantinea.  The result was that the
Corinthians, Syracusans, and Alcibiades, pressing all the same request
in the assembly of the Lacedaemonians, succeeded in persuading them;
but as the ephors and the authorities, although resolved to send
envoys to Syracuse to prevent their surrendering to the Athenians,
showed no disposition to send them any assistance, Alcibiades now came
forward and inflamed and stirred the Lacedaemonians by speaking as
follows:

"I am forced first to speak to you of the prejudice with which I
am regarded, in order that suspicion may not make you disinclined to
listen to me upon public matters.  The connection, with you as your
proxeni, which the ancestors of our family by reason of some
discontent renounced, I personally tried to renew by my good offices
towards you, in particular upon the occasion of the disaster at Pylos.
But although I maintained this friendly attitude, you yet chose to
negotiate the peace with the Athenians through my enemies, and thus to
strengthen them and to discredit me.  You had therefore no right to
complain if I turned to the Mantineans and Argives, and seized other
occasions of thwarting and injuring you; and the time has now come
when those among you, who in the bitterness of the moment may have
been then unfairly angry with me, should look at the matter in its
true light, and take a different view.  Those again who judged me
unfavourably, because I leaned rather to the side of the commons, must
not think that their dislike is any better founded.  We have always
been hostile to tyrants, and all who oppose arbitrary power are called
commons; hence we continued to act as leaders of the multitude;
besides which, as democracy was the government of the city, it was
necessary in most things to conform to established conditions.
However, we endeavoured to be more moderate than the licentious temper
of the times; and while there were others, formerly as now, who
tried to lead the multitude astray--the same who banished me--our
party was that of the whole people, our creed being to do our part
in preserving the form of government under which the city enjoyed
the utmost greatness and freedom, and which we had found existing.
As for democracy, the men of sense among us knew what it was, and I
perhaps as well as any, as I have the more cause to complain of it;
but there is nothing new to be said of a patent absurdity; meanwhile
we did not think it safe to alter it under the pressure of your
hostility.

"So much then for the prejudices with which I am regarded: I now can
call your attention to the questions you must consider, and upon which
superior knowledge perhaps permits me to speak.  We sailed to Sicily
first to conquer, if possible, the Siceliots, and after them the
Italiots also, and finally to assail the empire and city of
Carthage.  In the event of all or most of these schemes succeeding,
we were then to attack Peloponnese, bringing with us the entire
force of the Hellenes lately acquired in those parts, and taking a
number of barbarians into our pay, such as the Iberians and others
in those countries, confessedly the most warlike known, and building
numerous galleys in addition to those which we had already, timber
being plentiful in Italy; and with this fleet blockading Peloponnese
from the sea and assailing it with our armies by land, taking some
of the cities by storm, drawing works of circumvallation round others,
we hoped without difficulty to effect its reduction, and after this to
rule the whole of the Hellenic name.  Money and corn meanwhile for
the better execution of these plans were to be supplied in
sufficient quantities by the newly acquired places in those countries,
independently of our revenues here at home.

"You have thus heard the history of the present expedition from
the man who most exactly knows what our objects were; and the
remaining generals will, if they can, carry these out just the same.
But that the states in Sicily must succumb if you do not help them,
I will now show.  Although the Siceliots, with all their
inexperience, might even now be saved if their forces were united, the
Syracusans alone, beaten already in one battle with all their people
and blockaded from the sea, will be unable to withstand the Athenian
armament that is now there.  But if Syracuse falls, all Sicily falls
also, and Italy immediately afterwards; and the danger which I just
now spoke of from that quarter will before long be upon you.  None need
therefore fancy that Sicily only is in question; Peloponnese will be
so also, unless you speedily do as I tell you, and send on board
ship to Syracuse troops that shall able to row their ships themselves,
and serve as heavy infantry the moment that they land; and what I
consider even more important than the troops, a Spartan as
commanding officer to discipline the forces already on foot and to
compel recusants to serve.  The friends that you have already will thus
become more confident, and the waverers will be encouraged to join
you.  Meanwhile you must carry on the war here more openly, that the
Syracusans, seeing that you do not forget them, may put heart into
their resistance, and that the Athenians may be less able to reinforce
their armament.  You must fortify Decelea in Attica, the blow of
which the Athenians are always most afraid and the only one that
they think they have not experienced in the present war; the surest
method of harming an enemy being to find out what he most fears, and
to choose this means of attacking him, since every one naturally knows
best his own weak points and fears accordingly.  The fortification in
question, while it benefits you, will create difficulties for your
adversaries, of which I shall pass over many, and shall only mention
the chief.  Whatever property there is in the country will most of it
become yours, either by capture or surrender; and the Athenians will
at once be deprived of their revenues from the silver mines at
Laurium, of their present gains from their land and from the law
courts, and above all of the revenue from their allies, which will
be paid less regularly, as they lose their awe of Athens and see you
addressing yourselves with vigour to the war.  The zeal and speed
with which all this shall be done depends, Lacedaemonians, upon
yourselves; as to its possibility, I am quite confident, and I have
little fear of being mistaken.

"Meanwhile I hope that none of you will think any the worse of me
if, after having hitherto passed as a lover of my country, I now
actively join its worst enemies in attacking it, or will suspect
what I say as the fruit of an outlaw's enthusiasm.  I am an outlaw from
the iniquity of those who drove me forth, not, if you will be guided
by me, from your service; my worst enemies are not you who only harmed
your foes, but they who forced their friends to become enemies; and
love of country is what I do not feel when I am wronged, but what I
felt when secure in my rights as a citizen.  Indeed I do not consider
that I am now attacking a country that is still mine; I am rather
trying to recover one that is mine no longer; and the true lover of
his country is not he who consents to lose it unjustly rather than
attack it, but he who longs for it so much that he will go all lengths
to recover it.  For myself, therefore, Lacedaemonians, I beg you to use
me without scruple for danger and trouble of every kind, and to
remember the argument in every one's mouth, that if I did you great
harm as an enemy, I could likewise do you good service as a friend,
inasmuch as I know the plans of the Athenians, while I only guessed
yours.  For yourselves I entreat you to believe that your most
capital interests are now under deliberation; and I urge you to send
without hesitation the expeditions to Sicily and Attica; by the
presence of a small part of your forces you will save important cities
in that island, and you will destroy the power of Athens both
present and prospective; after this you will dwell in security and
enjoy the supremacy over all Hellas, resting not on force but upon
consent and affection."

Such were the words of Alcibiades.  The Lacedaemonians, who had
themselves before intended to march against Athens, but were still
waiting and looking about them, at once became much more in earnest
when they received this particular information from Alcibiades, and
considered that they had heard it from the man who best knew the truth
of the matter.  Accordingly they now turned their attention to the
fortifying of Decelea and sending immediate aid to the Sicilians;
and naming Gylippus, son of Cleandridas, to the command of the
Syracusans, bade him consult with that people and with the Corinthians
and arrange for succours reaching the island, in the best and
speediest way possible under the circumstances.  Gylippus desired the
Corinthians to send him at once two ships to Asine, and to prepare the
rest that they intended to send, and to have them ready to sail at the
proper time.  Having settled this, the envoys departed from Lacedaemon.

In the meantime arrived the Athenian galley from Sicily sent by
the generals for money and cavalry; and the Athenians, after hearing
what they wanted, voted to send the supplies for the armament and
the cavalry.  And the winter ended, and with it ended the seventeenth
year of the present war of which Thucydides is the historian.

The next summer, at the very beginning of the season, the
Athenians in Sicily put out from Catana, and sailed along shore to
Megara in Sicily, from which, as I have mentioned above, the
Syracusans expelled the inhabitants in the time of their tyrant
Gelo, themselves occupying the territory.  Here the Athenians landed
and laid waste the country, and after an unsuccessful attack upon a
fort of the Syracusans, went on with the fleet and army to the river
Terias, and advancing inland laid waste the plain and set fire to
the corn; and after killing some of a small Syracusan party which they
encountered, and setting up a trophy, went back again to their
ships.  They now sailed to Catana and took in provisions there, and
going with their whole force against Centoripa, a town of the
Sicels, acquired it by capitulation, and departed, after also
burning the corn of the Inessaeans and Hybleans.  Upon their return
to Catana they found the horsemen arrived from Athens, to the number
of two hundred and fifty (with their equipments, but without their
horses which were to be procured upon the spot), and thirty mounted
archers and three hundred talents of silver.

The same spring the Lacedaemonians marched against Argos, and went
as far as Cleonae, when an earthquake occurred and caused them to
return.  After this the Argives invaded the Thyreatid, which is on
their border, and took much booty from the Lacedaemonians, which was
sold for no less than twenty-five talents.  The same summer, not long
after, the Thespian commons made an attack upon the party in office,
which was not successful, but succours arrived from Thebes, and some
were caught, while others took refuge at Athens.

The same summer the Syracusans learned that the Athenians had been
joined by their cavalry, and were on the point of marching against
them; and seeing that without becoming masters of Epipolae, a
precipitous spot situated exactly over the town, the Athenians could
not, even if victorious in battle, easily invest them, they determined
to guard its approaches, in order that the enemy might not ascend
unobserved by this, the sole way by which ascent was possible, as
the remainder is lofty ground, and falls right down to the city, and
can all be seen from inside; and as it lies above the rest the place
is called by the Syracusans Epipolae or Overtown.  They accordingly
went out in mass at daybreak into the meadow along the river Anapus,
their new generals, Hermocrates and his colleagues, having just come
into office, and held a review of their heavy infantry, from whom they
first selected a picked body of six hundred, under the command of
Diomilus, an exile from Andros, to guard Epipolae, and to be ready
to muster at a moment's notice to help wherever help should be
required.

Meanwhile the Athenians, the very same morning, were holding a
review, having already made land unobserved with all the armament from
Catana, opposite a place called Leon, not much more than half a mile
from Epipolae, where they disembarked their army, bringing the fleet
to anchor at Thapsus, a peninsula running out into the sea, with a
narrow isthmus, and not far from the city of Syracuse either by land
or water.  While the naval force of the Athenians threw a stockade
across the isthmus and remained quiet at Thapsus, the land army
immediately went on at a run to Epipolae, and succeeded in getting
up by Euryelus before the Syracusans perceived them, or could come
up from the meadow and the review.  Diomilus with his six hundred and
the rest advanced as quickly as they could, but they had nearly
three miles to go from the meadow before reaching them.  Attacking in
this way in considerable disorder, the Syracusans were defeated in
battle at Epipolae and retired to the town, with a loss of about three
hundred killed, and Diomilus among the number.  After this the
Athenians set up a trophy and restored to the Syracusans their dead
under truce, and next day descended to Syracuse itself; and no one
coming out to meet them, reascended and built a fort at Labdalum, upon
the edge of the cliffs of Epipolae, looking towards Megara, to serve
as a magazine for their baggage and money, whenever they advanced to
battle or to work at the lines.

Not long afterwards three hundred cavalry came to them from
Egesta, and about a hundred from the Sicels, Naxians, and others;
and thus, with the two hundred and fifty from Athens, for whom they
had got horses from the Egestaeans and Catanians, besides others
that they bought, they now mustered six hundred and fifty cavalry in
all.  After posting a garrison in Labdalum, they advanced to Syca,
where they sat down and quickly built the Circle or centre of their
wall of circumvallation.  The Syracusans, appalled at the rapidity with
which the work advanced, determined to go out against them and give
battle and interrupt it; and the two armies were already in battle
array, when the Syracusan generals observed that their troops found
such difficulty in getting into line, and were in such disorder,
that they led them back into the town, except part of the cavalry.
These remained and hindered the Athenians from carrying stones or
dispersing to any great distance, until a tribe of the Athenian
heavy infantry, with all the cavalry, charged and routed the Syracusan
horse with some loss; after which they set up a trophy for the cavalry
action.

The next day the Athenians began building the wall to the north of
the Circle, at the same time collecting stone and timber, which they
kept laying down towards Trogilus along the shortest line for their
works from the great harbour to the sea; while the Syracusans,
guided by their generals, and above all by Hermocrates, instead of
risking any more general engagements, determined to build a
counterwork in the direction in which the Athenians were going to
carry their wall.  If this could be completed in time, the enemy's
lines would be cut; and meanwhile, if he were to attempt to
interrupt them by an attack, they would send a part of their forces
against him, and would secure the approaches beforehand with their
stockade, while the Athenians would have to leave off working with
their whole force in order to attend to them.  They accordingly sallied
forth and began to build, starting from their city, running a cross
wall below the Athenian Circle, cutting down the olives and erecting
wooden towers.  As the Athenian fleet had not yet sailed round into the
great harbour, the Syracusans still commanded the seacoast, and the
Athenians brought their provisions by land from Thapsus.

The Syracusans now thought the stockades and stonework of their
counterwall sufficiently far advanced; and as the Athenians, afraid of
being divided and so fighting at a disadvantage, and intent upon their
own wall, did not come out to interrupt them, they left one tribe to
guard the new work and went back into the city.  Meanwhile the
Athenians destroyed their pipes of drinking-water carried
underground into the city; and watching until the rest of the
Syracusans were in their tents at midday, and some even gone away into
the city, and those in the stockade keeping but indifferent guard,
appointed three hundred picked men of their own, and some men picked
from the light troops and armed for the purpose, to run suddenly as
fast as they could to the counterwork, while the rest of the army
advanced in two divisions, the one with one of the generals to the
city in case of a sortie, the other with the other general to the
stockade by the postern gate.  The three hundred attacked and took
the stockade, abandoned by its garrison, who took refuge in the
outworks round the statue of Apollo Temenites.  Here the pursuers burst
in with them, and after getting in were beaten out by the
Syracusans, and some few of the Argives and Athenians slain; after
which the whole army retired, and having demolished the counterwork
and pulled up the stockade, carried away the stakes to their own
lines, and set up a trophy.

The next day the Athenians from the Circle proceeded to fortify
the cliff above the marsh which on this side of Epipolae looks towards
the great harbour; this being also the shortest line for their work to
go down across the plain and the marsh to the harbour.  Meanwhile the
Syracusans marched out and began a second stockade, starting from
the city, across the middle of the marsh, digging a trench alongside
to make it impossible for the Athenians to carry their wall down to
the sea.  As soon as the Athenians had finished their work at the cliff
they again attacked the stockade and ditch of the Syracusans.  Ordering
the fleet to sail round from Thapsus into the great harbour of
Syracuse, they descended at about dawn from Epipolae into the plain,
and laying doors and planks over the marsh, where it was muddy and
firmest, crossed over on these, and by daybreak took the ditch and the
stockade, except a small portion which they captured afterwards.  A
battle now ensued, in which the Athenians were victorious, the right
wing of the Syracusans flying to the town and the left to the river.
The three hundred picked Athenians, wishing to cut off their
passage, pressed on at a run to the bridge, when the alarmed
Syracusans, who had with them most of their cavalry, closed and routed
them, hurling them back upon the Athenian right wing, the first
tribe of which was thrown into a panic by the shock.  Seeing this,
Lamachus came to their aid from the Athenian left with a few archers
and with the Argives, and crossing a ditch, was left alone with a
few that had crossed with him, and was killed with five or six of
his men.  These the Syracusans managed immediately to snatch up in
haste and get across the river into a place of security, themselves
retreating as the rest of the Athenian army now came up.

Meanwhile those who had at first fled for refuge to the city, seeing
the turn affairs were taking, now rallied from the town and formed
against the Athenians in front of them, sending also a part of their
number to the Circle on Epipolae, which they hoped to take while
denuded of its defenders.  These took and destroyed the Athenian
outwork of a thousand feet, the Circle itself being saved by Nicias,
who happened to have been left in it through illness, and who now
ordered the servants to set fire to the engines and timber thrown down
before the wall; want of men, as he was aware, rendering all other
means of escape impossible.  This step was justified by the result, the
Syracusans not coming any further on account of the fire, but
retreating.  Meanwhile succours were coming up from the Athenians
below, who had put to flight the troops opposed to them; and the fleet
also, according to orders, was sailing from Thapsus into the great
harbour.  Seeing this, the troops on the heights retired in haste,
and the whole army of the Syracusans re-entered the city, thinking
that with their present force they would no longer be able to hinder
the wall reaching the sea.

After this the Athenians set up a trophy and restored to the
Syracusans their dead under truce, receiving in return Lamachus and
those who had fallen with him.  The whole of their forces, naval and
military, being now with them, they began from Epipolae and the cliffs
and enclosed the Syracusans with a double wall down to the sea.
Provisions were now brought in for the armament from all parts of
Italy; and many of the Sicels, who had hitherto been looking to see
how things went, came as allies to the Athenians: there also arrived
three ships of fifty oars from Tyrrhenia.  Meanwhile everything else
progressed favourably for their hopes.  The Syracusans began to despair
of finding safety in arms, no relief having reached them from
Peloponnese, and were now proposing terms of capitulation among
themselves and to Nicias, who after the death of Lamachus was left
sole commander.  No decision was come to, but, as was natural with
men in difficulties and besieged more straitly than before, there
was much discussion with Nicias and still more in the town.  Their
present misfortunes had also made them suspicious of one another;
and the blame of their disasters was thrown upon the ill-fortune or
treachery of the generals under whose command they had happened; and
these were deposed and others, Heraclides, Eucles, and Tellias,
elected in their stead.

Meanwhile the Lacedaemonian, Gylippus, and the ships from Corinth
were now off Leucas, intent upon going with all haste to the relief of
Sicily.  The reports that reached them being of an alarming kind, and
all agreeing in the falsehood that Syracuse was already completely
invested, Gylippus abandoned all hope of Sicily, and wishing to save
Italy, rapidly crossed the Ionian Sea to Tarentum with the Corinthian,
Pythen, two Laconian, and two Corinthian vessels, leaving the
Corinthians to follow him after manning, in addition to their own ten,
two Leucadian and two Ambraciot ships.  From Tarentum Gylippus first
went on an embassy to Thurii, and claimed anew the rights of
citizenship which his father had enjoyed; failing to bring over the
townspeople, he weighed anchor and coasted along Italy.  Opposite the
Terinaean Gulf he was caught by the wind which blows violently and
steadily from the north in that quarter, and was carried out to sea;
and after experiencing very rough weather, remade Tarentum, where he
hauled ashore and refitted such of his ships as had suffered most from
the tempest.  Nicias heard of his approach, but, like the Thurians,
despised the scanty number of his ships, and set down piracy as the
only probable object of the voyage, and so took no precautions for the
present.

About the same time in this summer, the Lacedaemonians invaded Argos
with their allies, and laid waste most of the country.  The Athenians
went with thirty ships to the relief of the Argives, thus breaking
their treaty with the Lacedaemonians in the most overt manner.  Up to
this time incursions from Pylos, descents on the coast of the rest
of Peloponnese, instead of on the Laconian, had been the extent of
their co-operation with the Argives and Mantineans; and although the
Argives had often begged them to land, if only for a moment, with
their heavy infantry in Laconia, lay waste ever so little of it with
them, and depart, they had always refused to do so.  Now, however,
under the command of Phytodorus, Laespodius, and Demaratus, they
landed at Epidaurus Limera, Prasiae, and other places, and plundered
the country; and thus furnished the Lacedaemonians with a better
pretext for hostilities against Athens.  After the Athenians had
retired from Argos with their fleet, and the Lacedaemonians also,
the Argives made an incursion into the Phlisaid, and returned home
after ravaging their land and killing some of the inhabitants.




BOOK VII

CHAPTER XXI

_Eighteenth and Nineteenth Years of the War - Arrival of
Gylippus at Syracuse - Fortification of Decelea -
Successes of the Syracusans_

After refitting their ships, Gylippus and Pythen coasted along
from Tarentum to Epizephyrian Locris.  They now received the more
correct information that Syracuse was not yet completely invested, but
that it was still possible for an army arriving at Epipolae to
effect an entrance; and they consulted, accordingly, whether they
should keep Sicily on their right and risk sailing in by sea, or,
leaving it on their left, should first sail to Himera and, taking with
them the Himeraeans and any others that might agree to join them, go
to Syracuse by land.  Finally they determined to sail for Himera,
especially as the four Athenian ships which Nicias had at length
sent off, on hearing that they were at Locris, had not yet arrived
at Rhegium.  Accordingly, before these reached their post, the
Peloponnesians crossed the strait and, after touching at Rhegium and
Messina, came to Himera.  Arrived there, they persuaded the
Himeraeans to join in the war, and not only to go with them themselves
but to provide arms for the seamen from their vessels which they had
drawn ashore at Himera; and they sent and appointed a place for the
Selinuntines to meet them with all their forces.  A few troops were
also promised by the Geloans and some of the Sicels, who were now
ready to join them with much greater alacrity, owing to the recent
death of Archonidas, a powerful Sicel king in that neighbourhood and
friendly to Athens, and owing also to the vigour shown by Gylippus
in coming from Lacedaemon.  Gylippus now took with him about seven
hundred of his sailors and marines, that number only having arms, a
thousand heavy infantry and light troops from Himera with a body of
a hundred horse, some light troops and cavalry from Selinus, a few
Geloans, and Sicels numbering a thousand in all, and set out on his
march for Syracuse.

Meanwhile the Corinthian fleet from Leucas made all haste to arrive;
and one of their commanders, Gongylus, starting last with a single
ship, was the first to reach Syracuse, a little before Gylippus.
Gongylus found the Syracusans on the point of holding an assembly to
consider whether they should put an end to the war.  This he prevented,
and reassured them by telling them that more vessels were still to
arrive, and that Gylippus, son of Cleandridas, had been dispatched
by the Lacedaemonians to take the command.  Upon this the Syracusans
took courage, and immediately marched out with all their forces to
meet Gylippus, who they found was now close at hand.  Meanwhile
Gylippus, after taking Ietae, a fort of the Sicels, on his way, formed
his army in order of battle, and so arrived at Epipolae, and ascending
by Euryelus, as the Athenians had done at first, now advanced with the
Syracusans against the Athenian lines.  His arrival chanced at a
critical moment.  The Athenians had already finished a double wall of
six or seven furlongs to the great harbour, with the exception of a
small portion next the sea, which they were still engaged upon; and in
the remainder of the circle towards Trogilus on the other sea,
stones had been laid ready for building for the greater part of the
distance, and some points had been left half finished, while others
were entirely completed.  The danger of Syracuse had indeed been great.

Meanwhile the Athenians, recovering from the confusion into which
they had been first thrown by the sudden approach of Gylippus and
the Syracusans, formed in order of battle.  Gylippus halted at a
short distance off and sent on a herald to tell them that, if they
would evacuate Sicily with bag and baggage within five days' time,
he was willing to make a truce accordingly.  The Athenians treated this
proposition with contempt, and dismissed the herald without an answer.
After this both sides began to prepare for action.  Gylippus, observing
that the Syracusans were in disorder and did not easily fall into
line, drew off his troops more into the open ground, while Nicias
did not lead on the Athenians but lay still by his own wall.  When
Gylippus saw that they did not come on, he led off his army to the
citadel of the quarter of Apollo Temenites, and passed the night
there.  On the following day he led out the main body of his army, and,
drawing them up in order of battle before the walls of the Athenians
to prevent their going to the relief of any other quarter,
dispatched a strong force against Fort Labdalum, and took it, and
put all whom he found in it to the sword, the place not being within
sight of the Athenians.  On the same day an Athenian galley that lay
moored off the harbour was captured by the Syracusans.

After this the Syracusans and their allies began to carry a single
wall, starting from the city, in a slanting direction up Epipolae,
in order that the Athenians, unless they could hinder the work,
might be no longer able to invest them.  Meanwhile the Athenians,
having now finished their wall down to the sea, had come up to the
heights; and part of their wall being weak, Gylippus drew out his army
by night and attacked it.  However, the Athenians who happened to be
bivouacking outside took the alarm and came out to meet him, upon
seeing which he quickly led his men back again.  The Athenians now
built their wall higher, and in future kept guard at this point
themselves, disposing their confederates along the remainder of the
works, at the stations assigned to them.  Nicias also determined to
fortify Plemmyrium, a promontory over against the city, which juts out
and narrows the mouth of the Great Harbour.  He thought that the
fortification of this place would make it easier to bring in supplies,
as they would be able to carry on their blockade from a less distance,
near to the port occupied by the Syracusans; instead of being obliged,
upon every movement of the enemy's navy, to put out against them
from the bottom of the great harbour.  Besides this, he now began to
pay more attention to the war by sea, seeing that the coming of
Gylippus had diminished their hopes by land.  Accordingly, he
conveyed over his ships and some troops, and built three forts in
which he placed most of his baggage, and moored there for the future
the larger craft and men-of-war.  This was the first and chief occasion
of the losses which the crews experienced.  The water which they used
was scarce and had to be fetched from far, and the sailors could not
go out for firewood without being cut off by the Syracusan horse,
who were masters of the country; a third of the enemy's cavalry
being stationed at the little town of Olympieum, to prevent plundering
incursions on the part of the Athenians at Plemmyrium.  Meanwhile
Nicias learned that the rest of the Corinthian fleet was
approaching, and sent twenty ships to watch for them, with orders to
be on the look-out for them about Locris and Rhegium and the
approach to Sicily.

Gylippus, meanwhile, went on with the wall across Epipolae, using
the stones which the Athenians had laid down for their own wall, and
at the same time constantly led out the Syracusans and their allies,
and formed them in order of battle in front of the lines, the
Athenians forming against him.  At last he thought that the moment
was come, and began the attack; and a hand-to-hand fight ensued
between the lines, where the Syracusan cavalry could be of no use; and
the Syracusans and their allies were defeated and took up their dead
under truce, while the Athenians erected a trophy.  After this Gylippus
called the soldiers together, and said that the fault was not theirs
but his; he had kept their lines too much within the works, and had
thus deprived them of the services of their cavalry and darters.  He
would now, therefore, lead them on a second time.  He begged them to
remember that in material force they would be fully a match for
their opponents, while, with respect to moral advantages, it were
intolerable if Peloponnesians and Dorians should not feel confident of
overcoming Ionians and islanders with the motley rabble that
accompanied them, and of driving them out of the country.

After this he embraced the first opportunity that offered of again
leading them against the enemy.  Now Nicias and the Athenians held
the opinion that even if the Syracusans should not wish to offer
battle, it was necessary for them to prevent the building of the cross
wall, as it already almost overlapped the extreme point of their
own, and if it went any further it would from that moment make no
difference whether they fought ever so many successful actions, or
never fought at all.  They accordingly came out to meet the Syracusans.
Gylippus led out his heavy infantry further from the fortifications
than on the former occasion, and so joined battle; posting his horse
and darters upon the flank of the Athenians in the open space, where
the works of the two walls terminated.  During the engagement the
cavalry attacked and routed the left wing of the Athenians, which
was opposed to them; and the rest of the Athenian army was in
consequence defeated by the Syracusans and driven headlong within
their lines.  The night following the Syracusans carried their wall
up to the Athenian works and passed them, thus putting it out of their
power any longer to stop them, and depriving them, even if
victorious in the field, of all chance of investing the city for the
future.

After this the remaining twelve vessels of the Corinthians,
Ambraciots, and Leucadians sailed into the harbour under the command
of Erasinides, a Corinthian, having eluded the Athenian ships on
guard, and helped the Syracusans in completing the remainder of the
cross wall.  Meanwhile Gylippus went into the rest of Sicily to raise
land and naval forces, and also to bring over any of the cities that
either were lukewarm in the cause or had hitherto kept out of the
war altogether.  Syracusan and Corinthian envoys were also dispatched
to Lacedaemon and Corinth to get a fresh force sent over, in any way
that might offer, either in merchant vessels or transports, or in
any other manner likely to prove successful, as the Athenians too were
sending for reinforcements; while the Syracusans proceeded to man a
fleet and to exercise, meaning to try their fortune in this way
also, and generally became exceedingly confident.

Nicias perceiving this, and seeing the strength of the enemy and his
own difficulties daily increasing, himself also sent to Athens.  He had
before sent frequent reports of events as they occurred, and felt it
especially incumbent upon him to do so now, as he thought that they
were in a critical position, and that, unless speedily recalled or
strongly reinforced from home, they had no hope of safety.  He
feared, however, that the messengers, either through inability to
speak, or through failure of memory, or from a wish to please the
multitude, might not report the truth, and so thought it best to write
a letter, to ensure that the Athenians should know his own opinion
without its being lost in transmission, and be able to decide upon the
real facts of the case.

His emissaries, accordingly, departed with the letter and the
requisite verbal instructions; and he attended to the affairs of the
army, making it his aim now to keep on the defensive and to avoid
any unnecessary danger.

At the close of the same summer the Athenian general Euetion marched
in concert with Perdiccas with a large body of Thracians against
Amphipolis, and failing to take it brought some galleys round into the
Strymon, and blockaded the town from the river, having his base at
Himeraeum.

Summer was now over.  The winter ensuing, the persons sent by Nicias,
reaching Athens, gave the verbal messages which had been entrusted
to them, and answered any questions that were asked them, and
delivered the letter.  The clerk of the city now came forward and
read out to the Athenians the letter, which was as follows:

"Our past operations, Athenians, have been made known to you by many
other letters; it is now time for you to become equally familiar
with our present condition, and to take your measures accordingly.
We had defeated in most of our engagements with them the Syracusans,
against whom we were sent, and we had built the works which we now
occupy, when Gylippus arrived from Lacedaemon with an army obtained
from Peloponnese and from some of the cities in Sicily.  In our first
battle with him we were victorious; in the battle on the following day
we were overpowered by a multitude of cavalry and darters, and
compelled to retire within our lines.  We have now, therefore, been
forced by the numbers of those opposed to us to discontinue the work
of circumvallation, and to remain inactive; being unable to make use
even of all the force we have, since a large portion of our heavy
infantry is absorbed in the defence of our lines.  Meanwhile the
enemy have carried a single wall past our lines, thus making it
impossible for us to invest them in future, until this cross wall be
attacked by a strong force and captured.  So that the besieger in
name has become, at least from the land side, the besieged in reality;
as we are prevented by their cavalry from even going for any
distance into the country.

"Besides this, an embassy has been dispatched to Peloponnese to
procure reinforcements, and Gylippus has gone to the cities in Sicily,
partly in the hope of inducing those that are at present neutral to
join him in the war, partly of bringing from his allies additional
contingents for the land forces and material for the navy.  For I
understand that they contemplate a combined attack, upon our lines
with their land forces and with their fleet by sea.  You must none of
you be surprised that I say by sea also.  They have discovered that the
length of the time we have now been in commission has rotted our ships
and wasted our crews, and that with the entireness of our crews and
the soundness of our ships the pristine efficiency of our navy has
departed.  For it is impossible for us to haul our ships ashore and
careen them, because, the enemy's vessels being as many or more than
our own, we are constantly anticipating an attack.  Indeed, they may be
seen exercising, and it lies with them to take the initiative; and not
having to maintain a blockade, they have greater facilities for drying
their ships.

"This we should scarcely be able to do, even if we had plenty of
ships to spare, and were freed from our present necessity of
exhausting all our strength upon the blockade.  For it is already
difficult to carry in supplies past Syracuse; and were we to relax our
vigilance in the slightest degree it would become impossible.  The
losses which our crews have suffered and still continue to suffer
arise from the following causes.  Expeditions for fuel and for
forage, and the distance from which water has to be fetched, cause our
sailors to be cut off by the Syracusan cavalry; the loss of our
previous superiority emboldens our slaves to desert; our foreign
seamen are impressed by the unexpected appearance of a navy against
us, and the strength of the enemy's resistance; such of them as were
pressed into the service take the first opportunity of departing to
their respective cities; such as were originally seduced by the
temptation of high pay, and expected little fighting and large
gains, leave us either by desertion to the enemy or by availing
themselves of one or other of the various facilities of escape which
the magnitude of Sicily affords them.  Some even engage in trade
themselves and prevail upon the captains to take Hyccaric slaves on
board in their place; thus they have ruined the efficiency of our
navy.

"Now I need not remind you that the time during which a crew is in
its prime is short, and that the number of sailors who can start a
ship on her way and keep the rowing in time is small.  But by far my
greatest trouble is, that holding the post which I do, I am
prevented by the natural indocility of the Athenian seaman from
putting a stop to these evils; and that meanwhile we have no source
from which to recruit our crews, which the enemy can do from many
quarters, but are compelled to depend both for supplying the crews
in service and for making good our losses upon the men whom we brought
with us.  For our present confederates, Naxos and Catana, are incapable
of supplying us.  There is only one thing more wanting to our
opponents, I mean the defection of our Italian markets.  If they were
to see you neglect to relieve us from our present condition, and
were to go over to the enemy, famine would compel us to evacuate,
and Syracuse would finish the war without a blow.

"I might, it is true, have written to you something different and
more agreeable than this, but nothing certainly more useful, if it
is desirable for you to know the real state of things here before
taking your measures.  Besides I know that it is your nature to love to
be told the best side of things, and then to blame the teller if the
expectations which he has raised in your minds are not answered by the
result; and I therefore thought it safest to declare to you the truth.

"Now you are not to think that either your generals or your soldiers
have ceased to be a match for the forces originally opposed to them.
But you are to reflect that a general Sicilian coalition is being
formed against us; that a fresh army is expected from Peloponnese,
while the force we have here is unable to cope even with our present
antagonists; and you must promptly decide either to recall us or to
send out to us another fleet and army as numerous again, with a
large sum of money, and someone to succeed me, as a disease in the
kidneys unfits me for retaining my post.  I have, I think, some claim
on your indulgence, as while I was in my prime I did you much good
service in my commands.  But whatever you mean to do, do it at the
commencement of spring and without delay, as the enemy will obtain his
Sicilian reinforcements shortly, those from Peloponnese after a longer
interval; and unless you attend to the matter the former will be
here before you, while the latter will elude you as they have done
before."

Such were the contents of Nicias's letter.  When the Athenians had
heard it they refused to accept his resignation, but chose him two
colleagues, naming Menander and Euthydemus, two of the officers at the
seat of war, to fill their places until their arrival, that Nicias
might not be left alone in his sickness to bear the whole weight of
affairs.  They also voted to send out another army and navy, drawn
partly from the Athenians on the muster-roll, partly from the
allies.  The colleagues chosen for Nicias were Demosthenes, son of
Alcisthenes, and Eurymedon, son of Thucles.  Eurymedon was sent off
at once, about the time of the winter solstice, with ten ships, a
hundred and twenty talents of silver, and instructions to tell the
army that reinforcements would arrive, and that care would be taken of
them; but Demosthenes stayed behind to organize the expedition,
meaning to start as soon as it was spring, and sent for troops to
the allies, and meanwhile got together money, ships, and heavy
infantry at home.

The Athenians also sent twenty vessels round Peloponnese to
prevent any one crossing over to Sicily from Corinth or Peloponnese.
For the Corinthians, filled with confidence by the favourable
alteration in Sicilian affairs which had been reported by the envoys
upon their arrival, and convinced that the fleet which they had before
sent out had not been without its use, were now preparing to
dispatch a force of heavy infantry in merchant vessels to Sicily,
while the Lacedaemonians did the like for the rest of Peloponnese.  The
Corinthians also manned a fleet of twenty-five vessels, intending to
try the result of a battle with the squadron on guard at Naupactus,
and meanwhile to make it less easy for the Athenians there to hinder
the departure of their merchantmen, by obliging them to keep an eye
upon the galleys thus arrayed against them.

In the meantime the Lacedaemonians prepared for their invasion of
Attica, in accordance with their own previous resolve, and at the
instigation of the Syracusans and Corinthians, who wished for an
invasion to arrest the reinforcements which they heard that Athens was
about to send to Sicily.  Alcibiades also urgently advised the
fortification of Decelea, and a vigorous prosecution of the war.  But
the Lacedaemonians derived most encouragement from the belief that
Athens, with two wars on her hands, against themselves and against the
Siceliots, would be more easy to subdue, and from the conviction
that she had been the first to infringe the truce.  In the former
war, they considered, the offence had been more on their own side,
both on account of the entrance of the Thebans into Plataea in time of
peace, and also of their own refusal to listen to the Athenian offer
of arbitration, in spite of the clause in the former treaty that where
arbitration should be offered there should be no appeal to arms.  For
this reason they thought that they deserved their misfortunes, and
took to heart seriously the disaster at Pylos and whatever else had
befallen them.  But when, besides the ravages from Pylos, which went on
without any intermission, the thirty Athenian ships came out from
Argos and wasted part of Epidaurus, Prasiae, and other places; when
upon every dispute that arose as to the interpretation of any doubtful
point in the treaty, their own offers of arbitration were always
rejected by the Athenians, the Lacedaemonians at length decided that
Athens had now committed the very same offence as they had before
done, and had become the guilty party; and they began to be full of
ardour for the war.  They spent this winter in sending round to their
allies for iron, and in getting ready the other implements for
building their fort; and meanwhile began raising at home, and also
by forced requisitions in the rest of Peloponnese, a force to be
sent out in the merchantmen to their allies in Sicily.  Winter thus
ended, and with it the eighteenth year of this war of which Thucydides
is the historian.

In the first days of the spring following, at an earlier period than
usual, the Lacedaemonians and their allies invaded Attica, under the
command of Agis, son of Archidamus, king of the Lacedaemonians.  They
began by devastating the parts bordering upon the plain, and next
proceeded to fortify Decelea, dividing the work among the different
cities.  Decelea is about thirteen or fourteen miles from the city of
Athens, and the same distance or not much further from Boeotia; and
the fort was meant to annoy the plain and the richest parts of the
country, being in sight of Athens.  While the Peloponnesians and
their allies in Attica were engaged in the work of fortification,
their countrymen at home sent off, at about the same time, the heavy
infantry in the merchant vessels to Sicily; the Lacedaemonians
furnishing a picked force of Helots and Neodamodes (or freedmen),
six hundred heavy infantry in all, under the command of Eccritus, a
Spartan; and the Boeotians three hundred heavy infantry, commanded
by two Thebans, Xenon and Nicon, and by Hegesander, a Thespian.
These were among the first to put out into the open sea, starting from
Taenarus in Laconia.  Not long after their departure the Corinthians
sent off a force of five hundred heavy infantry, consisting partly
of men from Corinth itself, and partly of Arcadian mercenaries, placed
under the command of Alexarchus, a Corinthian.  The Sicyonians also
sent off two hundred heavy infantry at same time as the Corinthians,
under the command of Sargeus, a Sicyonian.  Meantime the
five-and-twenty vessels manned by Corinth during the winter lay
confronting the twenty Athenian ships at Naupactus until the heavy
infantry in the merchantmen were fairly on their way from Peloponnese;
thus fulfilling the object for which they had been manned
originally, which was to divert the attention of the Athenians from
the merchantmen to the galleys.

During this time the Athenians were not idle.  Simultaneously with
the fortification of Decelea, at the very beginning of spring, they
sent thirty ships round Peloponnese, under Charicles, son of
Apollodorus, with instructions to call at Argos and demand a force
of their heavy infantry for the fleet, agreeably to the alliance.  At
the same time they dispatched Demosthenes to Sicily, as they had
intended, with sixty Athenian and five Chian vessels, twelve hundred
Athenian heavy infantry from the muster-roll, and as many of the
islanders as could be raised in the different quarters, drawing upon
the other subject allies for whatever they could supply that would
be of use for the war.  Demosthenes was instructed first to sail
round with Charicles and to operate with him upon the coasts of
Laconia, and accordingly sailed to Aegina and there waited for the
remainder of his armament, and for Charicles to fetch the Argive
troops.

In Sicily, about the same time in this spring, Gylippus came to
Syracuse with as many troops as he could bring from the cities which
he had persuaded to join.  Calling the Syracusans together, he told
them that they must man as many ships as possible, and try their
hand at a sea-fight, by which he hoped to achieve an advantage in
the war not unworthy of the risk.  With him Hermocrates actively joined
in trying to encourage his countrymen to attack the Athenians at
sea, saying that the latter had not inherited their naval prowess
nor would they retain it for ever; they had been landsmen even to a
greater degree than the Syracusans, and had only become a maritime
power when obliged by the Mede.  Besides, to daring spirits like the
Athenians, a daring adversary would seem the most formidable; and
the Athenian plan of paralysing by the boldness of their attack a
neighbour often not their inferior in strength could now be used
against them with as good effect by the Syracusans.  He was convinced
also that the unlooked-for spectacle of Syracusans daring to face
the Athenian navy would cause a terror to the enemy, the advantages of
which would far outweigh any loss that Athenian science might
inflict upon their inexperience.  He accordingly urged them to throw
aside their fears and to try their fortune at sea; and the Syracusans,
under the influence of Gylippus and Hermocrates, and perhaps some
others, made up their minds for the sea-fight and began to man their
vessels.

When the fleet was ready, Gylippus led out the whole army by
night; his plan being to assault in person the forts on Plemmyrium
by land, while thirty-five Syracusan galleys sailed according to
appointment against the enemy from the great harbour, and the
forty-five remaining came round from the lesser harbour, where they
had their arsenal, in order to effect a junction with those inside and
simultaneously to attack Plemmyrium, and thus to distract the
Athenians by assaulting them on two sides at once.  The Athenians
quickly manned sixty ships, and with twenty-five of these engaged
the thirty-five of the Syracusans in the great harbour, sending the
rest to meet those sailing round from the arsenal; and an action now
ensued directly in front of the mouth of the great harbour, maintained
with equal tenacity on both sides; the one wishing to force the
passage, the other to prevent them.

In the meantime, while the Athenians in Plemmyrium were down at
the sea, attending to the engagement, Gylippus made a sudden attack on
the forts in the early morning and took the largest first, and
afterwards the two smaller, whose garrisons did not wait for him,
seeing the largest so easily taken.  At the fall of the first fort, the
men from it who succeeded in taking refuge in their boats and
merchantmen, found great difficulty in reaching the camp, as the
Syracusans were having the best of it in the engagement in the great
harbour, and sent a fast-sailing galley to pursue them.  But when the
two others fell, the Syracusans were now being defeated; and the
fugitives from these sailed alongshore with more ease.  The Syracusan
ships fighting off the mouth of the harbour forced their way through
the Athenian vessels and sailing in without any order fell foul of one
another, and transferred the victory to the Athenians; who not only
routed the squadron in question, but also that by which they were at
first being defeated in the harbour, sinking eleven of the Syracusan
vessels and killing most of the men, except the crews of three ships
whom they made prisoners.  Their own loss was confined to three
vessels; and after hauling ashore the Syracusan wrecks and setting
up a trophy upon the islet in front of Plemmyrium, they retired to
their own camp.

Unsuccessful at sea, the Syracusans had nevertheless the forts in
Plemmyrium, for which they set up three trophies.  One of the two
last taken they razed, but put in order and garrisoned the two others.
In the capture of the forts a great many men were killed and made
prisoners, and a great quantity of property was taken in all.  As the
Athenians had used them as a magazine, there was a large stock of
goods and corn of the merchants inside, and also a large stock
belonging to the captains; the masts and other furniture of forty
galleys being taken, besides three galleys which had been drawn up
on shore.  Indeed the first and chiefest cause of the ruin of the
Athenian army was the capture of Plemmyrium; even the entrance of
the harbour being now no longer safe for carrying in provisions, as
the Syracusan vessels were stationed there to prevent it, and
nothing could be brought in without fighting; besides the general
impression of dismay and discouragement produced upon the army.

After this the Syracusans sent out twelve ships under the command of
Agatharchus, a Syracusan.  One of these went to Peloponnese with
ambassadors to describe the hopeful state of their affairs, and to
incite the Peloponnesians to prosecute the war there even more
actively than they were now doing, while the eleven others sailed to
Italy, hearing that vessels laden with stores were on their way to the
Athenians.  After falling in with and destroying most of the vessels in
question, and burning in the Caulonian territory a quantity of
timber for shipbuilding, which had been got ready for the Athenians,
the Syracusan squadron went to Locri, and one of the merchantmen
from Peloponnese coming in, while they were at anchor there,
carrying Thespian heavy infantry, took these on board and sailed
alongshore towards home.  The Athenians were on the look-out for them
with twenty ships at Megara, but were only able to take one vessel
with its crew; the rest getting clear off to Syracuse.  There was
also some skirmishing in the harbour about the piles which the
Syracusans had driven in the sea in front of the old docks, to allow
their ships to lie at anchor inside, without being hurt by the
Athenians sailing up and running them down.  The Athenians brought up
to them a ship of ten thousand talents burden furnished with wooden
turrets and screens, and fastened ropes round the piles from their
boats, wrenched them up and broke them, or dived down and sawed them
in two.  Meanwhile the Syracusans plied them with missiles from the
docks, to which they replied from their large vessel; until at last
most of the piles were removed by the Athenians.  But the most
awkward part of the stockade was the part out of sight: some of the
piles which had been driven in did not appear above water, so that
it was dangerous to sail up, for fear of running the ships upon
them, just as upon a reef, through not seeing them.  However divers
went down and sawed off even these for reward; although the Syracusans
drove in others.  Indeed there was no end to the contrivances to
which they resorted against each other, as might be expected between
two hostile armies confronting each other at such a short distance:
and skirmishes and all kinds of other attempts were of constant
occurrence.  Meanwhile the Syracusans sent embassies to the cities,
composed of Corinthians, Ambraciots, and Lacedaemonians, to tell
them of the capture of Plemmyrium, and that their defeat in the
sea-fight was due less to the strength of the enemy than to their
own disorder; and generally, to let them know that they were full of
hope, and to desire them to come to their help with ships and
troops, as the Athenians were expected with a fresh army, and if the
one already there could be destroyed before the other arrived, the war
would be at an end.

While the contending parties in Sicily were thus engaged,
Demosthenes, having now got together the armament with which he was to
go to the island, put out from Aegina, and making sail for
Peloponnese, joined Charicles and the thirty ships of the Athenians.
Taking on board the heavy infantry from Argos they sailed to
Laconia, and, after first plundering part of Epidaurus Limera,
landed on the coast of Laconia, opposite Cythera, where the temple
of Apollo stands, and, laying waste part of the country, fortified a
sort of isthmus, to which the Helots of the Lacedaemonians might
desert, and from whence plundering incursions might be made as from
Pylos.  Demosthenes helped to occupy this place, and then immediately
sailed on to Corcyra to take up some of the allies in that island, and
so to proceed without delay to Sicily; while Charicles waited until he
had completed the fortification of the place and, leaving a garrison
there, returned home subsequently with his thirty ships and the
Argives also.

This same summer arrived at Athens thirteen hundred targeteers,
Thracian swordsmen of the tribe of the Dii, who were to have sailed to
Sicily with Demosthenes.  Since they had come too late, the Athenians
determined to send them back to Thrace, whence they had come; to
keep them for the Decelean war appearing too expensive, as the pay
of each man was a drachma a day.  Indeed since Decelea had been first
fortified by the whole Peloponnesian army during this summer, and then
occupied for the annoyance of the country by the garrisons from the
cities relieving each other at stated intervals, it had been doing
great mischief to the Athenians; in fact this occupation, by the
destruction of property and loss of men which resulted from it, was
one of the principal causes of their ruin.  Previously the invasions
were short, and did not prevent their enjoying their land during the
rest of the time: the enemy was now permanently fixed in Attica; at
one time it was an attack in force, at another it was the regular
garrison overrunning the country and making forays for its
subsistence, and the Lacedaemonian king, Agis, was in the field and
diligently prosecuting the war; great mischief was therefore done to
the Athenians.  They were deprived of their whole country: more than
twenty thousand slaves had deserted, a great part of them artisans,
and all their sheep and beasts of burden were lost; and as the cavalry
rode out daily upon excursions to Decelea and to guard the country,
their horses were either lamed by being constantly worked upon rocky
ground, or wounded by the enemy.

Besides, the transport of provisions from Euboea, which had before
been carried on so much more quickly overland by Decelea from
Oropus, was now effected at great cost by sea round Sunium; everything
the city required had to be imported from abroad, and instead of a
city it became a fortress.  Summer and winter the Athenians were worn
out by having to keep guard on the fortifications, during the day by
turns, by night all together, the cavalry excepted, at the different
military posts or upon the wall.  But what most oppressed them was that
they had two wars at once, and had thus reached a pitch of frenzy
which no one would have believed possible if he had heard of it before
it had come to pass.  For could any one have imagined that even when
besieged by the Peloponnesians entrenched in Attica, they would still,
instead of withdrawing from Sicily, stay on there besieging in like
manner Syracuse, a town (taken as a town) in no way inferior to
Athens, or would so thoroughly upset the Hellenic estimate of their
strength and audacity, as to give the spectacle of a people which,
at the beginning of the war, some thought might hold out one year,
some two, none more than three, if the Peloponnesians invaded their
country, now seventeen years after the first invasion, after having
already suffered from all the evils of war, going to Sicily and
undertaking a new war nothing inferior to that which they already
had with the Peloponnesians? These causes, the great losses from
Decelea, and the other heavy charges that fell upon them, produced
their financial embarrassment; and it was at this time that they
imposed upon their subjects, instead of the tribute, the tax of a
twentieth upon all imports and exports by sea, which they thought
would bring them in more money; their expenditure being now not the
same as at first, but having grown with the war while their revenues
decayed.

Accordingly, not wishing to incur expense in their present want of
money, they sent back at once the Thracians who came too late for
Demosthenes, under the conduct of Diitrephes, who was instructed, as
they were to pass through the Euripus, to make use of them if possible
in the voyage alongshore to injure the enemy.  Diitrephes first
landed them at Tanagra and hastily snatched some booty; he then sailed
across the Euripus in the evening from Chalcis in Euboea and
disembarking in Boeotia led them against Mycalessus.  The night he
passed unobserved near the temple of Hermes, not quite two miles
from Mycalessus, and at daybreak assaulted and took the town, which is
not a large one; the inhabitants being off their guard and not
expecting that any one would ever come up so far from the sea to
molest them, the wall too being weak, and in some places having
tumbled down, while in others it had not been built to any height, and
the gates also being left open through their feeling of security.
The Thracians bursting into Mycalessus sacked the houses and
temples, and butchered the inhabitants, sparing neither youth nor age,
but killing all they fell in with, one after the other, children and
women, and even beasts of burden, and whatever other living
creatures they saw; the Thracian race, like the bloodiest of the
barbarians, being even more so when it has nothing to fear.  Everywhere
confusion reigned and death in all its shapes; and in particular
they attacked a boys' school, the largest that there was in the place,
into which the children had just gone, and massacred them all.  In
short, the disaster falling upon the whole town was unsurpassed in
magnitude, and unapproached by any in suddenness and in horror.

Meanwhile the Thebans heard of it and marched to the rescue, and
overtaking the Thracians before they had gone far, recovered the
plunder and drove them in panic to the Euripus and the sea, where
the vessels which brought them were lying.  The greatest slaughter took
place while they were embarking, as they did not know how to swim, and
those in the vessels on seeing what was going on on on shore moored
them out of bowshot: in the rest of the retreat the Thracians made a
very respectable defence against the Theban horse, by which they
were first attacked, dashing out and closing their ranks according
to the tactics of their country, and lost only a few men in that
part of the affair.  A good number who were after plunder were actually
caught in the town and put to death.  Altogether the Thracians had
two hundred and fifty killed out of thirteen hundred, the Thebans
and the rest who came to the rescue about twenty, troopers and heavy
infantry, with Scirphondas, one of the Boeotarchs.  The Mycalessians
lost a large proportion of their population.

While Mycalessus thus experienced a calamity for its extent as
lamentable as any that happened in the war, Demosthenes, whom we
left sailing to Corcyra, after the building of the fort in Laconia,
found a merchantman lying at Phea in Elis, in which the Corinthian
heavy infantry were to cross to Sicily.  The ship he destroyed, but the
men escaped, and subsequently got another in which they pursued
their voyage.  After this, arriving at Zacynthus and Cephallenia, he
took a body of heavy infantry on board, and sending for some of the
Messenians from Naupactus, crossed over to the opposite coast of
Acarnania, to Alyzia, and to Anactorium which was held by the
Athenians.  While he was in these parts he was met by Eurymedon
returning from Sicily, where he had been sent, as has been
mentioned, during the winter, with the money for the army, who told
him the news, and also that he had heard, while at sea, that the
Syracusans had taken Plemmyrium.  Here, also, Conon came to them, the
commander at Naupactus, with news that the twenty-five Corinthian
ships stationed opposite to him, far from giving over the war, were
meditating an engagement; and he therefore begged them to send him
some ships, as his own eighteen were not a match for the enemy's
twenty-five.  Demosthenes and Eurymedon, accordingly, sent ten of their
best sailers with Conon to reinforce the squadron at Naupactus, and
meanwhile prepared for the muster of their forces; Eurymedon, who
was now the colleague of Demosthenes, and had turned back in
consequence of his appointment, sailing to Corcyra to tell them to man
fifteen ships and to enlist heavy infantry; while Demosthenes raised
slingers and darters from the parts about Acarnania.

Meanwhile the envoys, already mentioned, who had gone from
Syracuse to the cities after the capture of Plemmyrium, had
succeeded in their mission, and were about to bring the army that they
had collected, when Nicias got scent of it, and sent to the Centoripae
and Alicyaeans and other of the friendly Sicels, who held the
passes, not to let the enemy through, but to combine to prevent
their passing, there being no other way by which they could even
attempt it, as the Agrigentines would not give them a passage
through their country.  Agreeably to this request the Sicels laid a
triple ambuscade for the Siceliots upon their march, and attacking
them suddenly, while off their guard, killed about eight hundred of
them and all the envoys, the Corinthian only excepted, by whom fifteen
hundred who escaped were conducted to Syracuse.

About the same time the Camarinaeans also came to the assistance
of Syracuse with five hundred heavy infantry, three hundred darters,
and as many archers, while the Geloans sent crews for five ships, four
hundred darters, and two hundred horse.  Indeed almost the whole of
Sicily, except the Agrigentines, who were neutral, now ceased merely
to watch events as it had hitherto done, and actively joined
Syracuse against the Athenians.

While the Syracusans after the Sicel disaster put off any
immediate attack upon the Athenians, Demosthenes and Eurymedon,
whose forces from Corcyra and the continent were now ready, crossed
the Ionian Gulf with all their armament to the Iapygian promontory,
and starting from thence touched at the Choerades Isles lying off
Iapygia, where they took on board a hundred and fifty Iapygian darters
of the Messapian tribe, and after renewing an old friendship with
Artas the chief, who had furnished them with the darters, arrived at
Metapontium in Italy.  Here they persuaded their allies the
Metapontines to send with them three hundred darters and two
galleys, and with this reinforcement coasted on to Thurii, where
they found the party hostile to Athens recently expelled by a
revolution, and accordingly remained there to muster and review the
whole army, to see if any had been left behind, and to prevail upon
the Thurians resolutely to join them in their expedition, and in the
circumstances in which they found themselves to conclude a defensive
and offensive alliance with the Athenians.

About the same time the Peloponnesians in the twenty-five ships
stationed opposite to the squadron at Naupactus to protect the passage
of the transports to Sicily had got ready for engaging, and manning
some additional vessels, so as to be numerically little inferior to
the Athenians, anchored off Erineus in Achaia in the Rhypic country.
The place off which they lay being in the form of a crescent, the land
forces furnished by the Corinthians and their allies on the spot
came up and ranged themselves upon the projecting headlands on
either side, while the fleet, under the command of Polyanthes, a
Corinthian, held the intervening space and blocked up the entrance.
The Athenians under Diphilus now sailed out against them with
thirty-three ships from Naupactus, and the Corinthians, at first not
moving, at length thought they saw their opportunity, raised the
signal, and advanced and engaged the Athenians.  After an obstinate
struggle, the Corinthians lost three ships, and without sinking any
altogether, disabled seven of the enemy, which were struck prow to
prow and had their foreships stove in by the Corinthian vessels, whose
cheeks had been strengthened for this very purpose.  After an action of
this even character, in which either party could claim the victory
(although the Athenians became masters of the wrecks through the
wind driving them out to sea, the Corinthians not putting out again to
meet them), the two combatants parted.  No pursuit took place, and no
prisoners were made on either side; the Corinthians and Peloponnesians
who were fighting near the shore escaping with ease, and none of the
Athenian vessels having been sunk.  The Athenians now sailed back to
Naupactus, and the Corinthians immediately set up a trophy as victors,
because they had disabled a greater number of the enemy's ships.
Moreover they held that they had not been worsted, for the very same
reason that their opponent held that he had not been victorious; the
Corinthians considering that they were conquerors, if not decidedly
conquered, and the Athenians thinking themselves vanquished, because
not decidedly victorious.  However, when the Peloponnesians sailed
off and their land forces had dispersed, the Athenians also set up a
trophy as victors in Achaia, about two miles and a quarter from
Erineus, the Corinthian station.

This was the termination of the action at Naupactus.  To return to
Demosthenes and Eurymedon: the Thurians having now got ready to join
in the expedition with seven hundred heavy infantry and three
hundred darters, the two generals ordered the ships to sail along
the coast to the Crotonian territory, and meanwhile held a review of
all the land forces upon the river Sybaris, and then led them
through the Thurian country.  Arrived at the river Hylias, they here
received a message from the Crotonians, saying that they would not
allow the army to pass through their country; upon which the Athenians
descended towards the shore, and bivouacked near the sea and the mouth
of the Hylias, where the fleet also met them, and the next day
embarked and sailed along the coast touching at all the cities
except Locri, until they came to Petra in the Rhegian territory.

Meanwhile the Syracusans hearing of their approach resolved to
make a second attempt with their fleet and their other forces on
shore, which they had been collecting for this very purpose in order
to do something before their arrival.  In addition to other
improvements suggested by the former sea-fight which they now
adopted in the equipment of their navy, they cut down their prows to a
smaller compass to make them more solid and made their cheeks stouter,
and from these let stays into the vessels' sides for a length of six
cubits within and without, in the same way as the Corinthians had
altered their prows before engaging the squadron at Naupactus.  The
Syracusans thought that they would thus have an advantage over the
Athenian vessels, which were not constructed with equal strength,
but were slight in the bows, from their being more used to sail
round and charge the enemy's side than to meet him prow to prow, and
that the battle being in the great harbour, with a great many ships in
not much room, was also a fact in their favour.  Charging prow to prow,
they would stave in the enemy's bows, by striking with solid and stout
beaks against hollow and weak ones; and secondly, the Athenians for
want of room would be unable to use their favourite manoeuvre of
breaking the line or of sailing round, as the Syracusans would do
their best not to let them do the one, and want of room would
prevent their doing the other.  This charging prow to prow, which had
hitherto been thought want of skill in a helmsman, would be the
Syracusans' chief manoeuvre, as being that which they should find most
useful, since the Athenians, if repulsed, would not be able to back
water in any direction except towards the shore, and that only for a
little way, and in the little space in front of their own camp.  The
rest of the harbour would be commanded by the Syracusans; and the
Athenians, if hard pressed, by crowding together in a small space
and all to the same point, would run foul of one another and fall into
disorder, which was, in fact, the thing that did the Athenians most
harm in all the sea-fights, they not having, like the Syracusans,
the whole harbour to retreat over.  As to their sailing round into
the open sea, this would be impossible, with the Syracusans in
possession of the way out and in, especially as Plemmyrium would be
hostile to them, and the mouth of the harbour was not large.

With these contrivances to suit their skill and ability, and now
more confident after the previous sea-fight, the Syracusans attacked
by land and sea at once.  The town force Gylippus led out a little
the first and brought them up to the wall of the Athenians, where it
looked towards the city, while the force from the Olympieum, that is
to say, the heavy infantry that were there with the horse and the
light troops of the Syracusans, advanced against the wall from the
opposite side; the ships of the Syracusans and allies sailing out
immediately afterwards.  The Athenians at first fancied that they
were to be attacked by land only, and it was not without alarm that
they saw the fleet suddenly approaching as well; and while some were
forming upon the walls and in front of them against the advancing
enemy, and some marching out in haste against the numbers of horse and
darters coming from the Olympieum and from outside, others manned
the ships or rushed down to the beach to oppose the enemy, and when
the ships were manned put out with seventy-five sail against about
eighty of the Syracusans.

After spending a great part of the day in advancing and retreating
and skirmishing with each other, without either being able to gain any
advantage worth speaking of, except that the Syracusans sank one or
two of the Athenian vessels, they parted, the land force at the same
time retiring from the lines.  The next day the Syracusans remained
quiet, and gave no signs of what they were going to do; but Nicias,
seeing that the battle had been a drawn one, and expecting that they
would attack again, compelled the captains to refit any of the ships
that had suffered, and moored merchant vessels before the stockade
which they had driven into the sea in front of their ships, to serve
instead of an enclosed harbour, at about two hundred feet from each
other, in order that any ship that was hard pressed might be able to
retreat in safety and sail out again at leisure.  These preparations
occupied the Athenians all day until nightfall.

The next day the Syracusans began operations at an earlier hour, but
with the same plan of attack by land and sea.  A great part of the
day the rivals spent as before, confronting and skirmishing with
each other; until at last Ariston, son of Pyrrhicus, a Corinthian, the
ablest helmsman in the Syracusan service, persuaded their naval
commanders to send to the officials in the city, and tell them to move
the sale market as quickly as they could down to the sea, and oblige
every one to bring whatever eatables he had and sell them there,
thus enabling the commanders to land the crews and dine at once
close to the ships, and shortly afterwards, the selfsame day, to
attack the Athenians again when they were not expecting it.

In compliance with this advice a messenger was sent and the market
got ready, upon which the Syracusans suddenly backed water and
withdrew to the town, and at once landed and took their dinner upon
the spot; while the Athenians, supposing that they had returned to the
town because they felt they were beaten, disembarked at their
leisure and set about getting their dinners and about their other
occupations, under the idea that they done with fighting for that day.
Suddenly the Syracusans had manned their ships and again sailed
against them; and the Athenians, in great confusion and most of them
fasting, got on board, and with great difficulty put out to meet them.
For some time both parties remained on the defensive without engaging,
until the Athenians at last resolved not to let themselves be worn out
by waiting where they were, but to attack without delay, and giving
a cheer, went into action.  The Syracusans received them, and
charging prow to prow as they had intended, stove in a great part of
the Athenian foreships by the strength of their beaks; the darters
on the decks also did great damage to the Athenians, but still greater
damage was done by the Syracusans who went about in small boats, ran
in upon the oars of the Athenian galleys, and sailed against their
sides, and discharged from thence their darts upon the sailors.

At last, fighting hard in this fashion, the Syracusans gained the
victory, and the Athenians turned and fled between the merchantmen
to their own station.  The Syracusan ships pursued them as far as the
merchantmen, where they were stopped by the beams armed with
dolphins suspended from those vessels over the passage.  Two of the
Syracusan vessels went too near in the excitement of victory and
were destroyed, one of them being taken with its crew.  After sinking
seven of the Athenian vessels and disabling many, and taking most of
the men prisoners and killing others, the Syracusans retired and set
up trophies for both the engagements, being now confident of having
a decided superiority by sea, and by no means despairing of equal
success by land.




CHAPTER XXII

_Nineteenth Year of the War - Arrival of Demosthenes - Defeat of
the Athenians at Epipolae - Folly and Obstinancy of Nicias_

In the meantime, while the Syracusans were preparing for a second
attack upon both elements, Demosthenes and Eurymedon arrived with
the succours from Athens, consisting of about seventy-three ships,
including the foreigners; nearly five thousand heavy infantry,
Athenian and allied; a large number of darters, Hellenic and
barbarian, and slingers and archers and everything else upon a
corresponding scale.  The Syracusans and their allies were for the
moment not a little dismayed at the idea that there was to be no
term or ending to their dangers, seeing, in spite of the fortification
of Decelea, a new army arrive nearly equal to the former, and the
power of Athens proving so great in every quarter.  On the other
hand, the first Athenian armament regained a certain confidence in the
midst of its misfortunes.  Demosthenes, seeing how matters stood,
felt that he could not drag on and fare as Nicias had done, who by
wintering in Catana instead of at once attacking Syracuse had
allowed the terror of his first arrival to evaporate in contempt,
and had given time to Gylippus to arrive with a force from
Peloponnese, which the Syracusans would never have sent for if he
had attacked immediately; for they fancied that they were a match
for him by themselves, and would not have discovered their inferiority
until they were already invested, and even if they then sent for
succours, they would no longer have been equally able to profit by
their arrival.  Recollecting this, and well aware that it was now on
the first day after his arrival that he like Nicias was most
formidable to the enemy, Demosthenes determined to lose no time in
drawing the utmost profit from the consternation at the moment
inspired by his army; and seeing that the counterwall of the
Syracusans, which hindered the Athenians from investing them, was a
single one, and that he who should become master of the way up to
Epipolae, and afterwards of the camp there, would find no difficulty
in taking it, as no one would even wait for his attack, made all haste
to attempt the enterprise.  This he took to be the shortest way of
ending the war, as he would either succeed and take Syracuse, or would
lead back the armament instead of frittering away the lives of the
Athenians engaged in the expedition and the resources of the country
at large.

First therefore the Athenians went out and laid waste the lands of
the Syracusans about the Anapus and carried all before them as at
first by land and by sea, the Syracusans not offering to oppose them
upon either element, unless it were with their cavalry and darters
from the Olympieum.  Next Demosthenes resolved to attempt the
counterwall first by means of engines.  As however the engines that
he brought up were burnt by the enemy fighting from the wall, and
the rest of the forces repulsed after attacking at many different
points, he determined to delay no longer, and having obtained the
consent of Nicias and his fellow commanders, proceeded to put in
execution his plan of attacking Epipolae.  As by day it seemed
impossible to approach and get up without being observed, he ordered
provisions for five days, took all the masons and carpenters, and
other things, such as arrows, and everything else that they could want
for the work of fortification if successful, and, after the first
watch, set out with Eurymedon and Menander and the whole army for
Epipolae, Nicias being left behind in the lines.  Having come up by the
hill of Euryelus (where the former army had ascended at first)
unobserved by the enemy's guards, they went up to the fort which the
Syracusans had there, and took it, and put to the sword part of the
garrison.  The greater number, however, escaped at once and gave the
alarm to the camps, of which there were three upon Epipolae,
defended by outworks, one of the Syracusans, one of the other
Siceliots, and one of the allies; and also to the six hundred
Syracusans forming the original garrison for this part of Epipolae.
These at once advanced against the assailants and, falling in with
Demosthenes and the Athenians, were routed by them after a sharp
resistance, the victors immediately pushing on, eager to achieve the
objects of the attack without giving time for their ardour to cool;
meanwhile others from the very beginning were taking the counterwall
of the Syracusans, which was abandoned by its garrison, and pulling
down the battlements.  The Syracusans and the allies, and Gylippus with
the troops under his command, advanced to the rescue from the
outworks, but engaged in some consternation (a night attack being a
piece of audacity which they had never expected), and were at first
compelled to retreat.  But while the Athenians, flushed with their
victory, now advanced with less order, wishing to make their way as
quickly as possible through the whole force of the enemy not yet
engaged, without relaxing their attack or giving them time to rally,
the Boeotians made the first stand against them, attacked them, routed
them, and put them to flight.

The Athenians now fell into great disorder and perplexity, so that
it was not easy to get from one side or the other any detailed account
of the affair.  By day certainly the combatants have a clearer
notion, though even then by no means of all that takes place, no one
knowing much of anything that does not go on in his own immediate
neighbourhood; but in a night engagement (and this was the only one
that occurred between great armies during the war) how could any one
know anything for certain? Although there was a bright moon they saw
each other only as men do by moonlight, that is to say, they could
distinguish the form of the body, but could not tell for certain
whether it was a friend or an enemy.  Both had great numbers of heavy
infantry moving about in a small space.  Some of the Athenians were
already defeated, while others were coming up yet unconquered for
their first attack.  A large part also of the rest of their forces
either had only just got up, or were still ascending, so that they did
not know which way to march.  Owing to the rout that had taken place
all in front was now in confusion, and the noise made it difficult
to distinguish anything.  The victorious Syracusans and allies were
cheering each other on with loud cries, by night the only possible
means of communication, and meanwhile receiving all who came against
them; while the Athenians were seeking for one another, taking all
in front of them for enemies, even although they might be some of
their now flying friends; and by constantly asking for the
watchword, which was their only means of recognition, not only
caused great confusion among themselves by asking all at once, but
also made it known to the enemy, whose own they did not so readily
discover, as the Syracusans were victorious and not scattered, and
thus less easily mistaken.  The result was that if the Athenians fell
in with a party of the enemy that was weaker than they, it escaped
them through knowing their watchword; while if they themselves
failed to answer they were put to the sword.  But what hurt them as
much, or indeed more than anything else, was the singing of the paean,
from the perplexity which it caused by being nearly the same on either
side; the Argives and Corcyraeans and any other Dorian peoples in
the army, struck terror into the Athenians whenever they raised
their paean, no less than did the enemy.  Thus, after being once thrown
into disorder, they ended by coming into collision with each other
in many parts of the field, friends with friends, and citizens with
citizens, and not only terrified one another, but even came to blows
and could only be parted with difficulty.  In the pursuit many perished
by throwing themselves down the cliffs, the way down from Epipolae
being narrow; and of those who got down safely into the plain,
although many, especially those who belonged to the first armament,
escaped through their better acquaintance with the locality, some of
the newcomers lost their way and wandered over the country, and were
cut off in the morning by the Syracusan cavalry and killed.

The next day the Syracusans set up two trophies, one upon Epipolae
where the ascent had been made, and the other on the spot where the
first check was given by the Boeotians; and the Athenians took back
their dead under truce.  A great many of the Athenians and allies
were killed, although still more arms were taken than could be
accounted for by the number of the dead, as some of those who were
obliged to leap down from the cliffs without their shields escaped
with their lives and did not perish like the rest.

After this the Syracusans, recovering their old confidence at such
an unexpected stroke of good fortune, dispatched Sicanus with
fifteen ships to Agrigentum where there was a revolution, to induce if
possible the city to join them; while Gylippus again went by land into
the rest of Sicily to bring up reinforcements, being now in hope of
taking the Athenian lines by storm, after the result of the affair
on Epipolae.

In the meantime the Athenian generals consulted upon the disaster
which had happened, and upon the general weakness of the army.  They
saw themselves unsuccessful in their enterprises, and the soldiers
disgusted with their stay; disease being rife among them owing to
its being the sickly season of the year, and to the marshy and
unhealthy nature of the spot in which they were encamped; and the
state of their affairs generally being thought desperate.  Accordingly,
Demosthenes was of opinion that they ought not to stay any longer; but
agreeably to his original idea in risking the attempt upon Epipolae,
now that this had failed, he gave his vote for going away without
further loss of time, while the sea might yet be crossed, and their
late reinforcement might give them the superiority at all events on
that element.  He also said that it would be more profitable for the
state to carry on the war against those who were building
fortifications in Attica, than against the Syracusans whom it was no
longer easy to subdue; besides which it was not right to squander
large sums of money to no purpose by going on with the siege.

This was the opinion of Demosthenes.  Nicias, without denying the bad
state of their affairs, was unwilling to avow their weakness, or to
have it reported to the enemy that the Athenians in full council
were openly voting for retreat; for in that case they would be much
less likely to effect it when they wanted without discovery.  Moreover,
his own particular information still gave him reason to hope that
the affairs of the enemy would soon be in a worse state than their
own, if the Athenians persevered in the siege; as they would wear
out the Syracusans by want of money, especially with the more
extensive command of the sea now given them by their present navy.
Besides this, there was a party in Syracuse who wished to betray the
city to the Athenians, and kept sending him messages and telling him
not to raise the siege.  Accordingly, knowing this and really waiting
because he hesitated between the two courses and wished to see his way
more clearly, in his public speech on this occasion he refused to lead
off the army, saying he was sure the Athenians would never approve
of their returning without a vote of theirs.  Those who would vote upon
their conduct, instead of judging the facts as eye-witnesses like
themselves and not from what they might hear from hostile critics,
would simply be guided by the calumnies of the first clever speaker;
while many, indeed most, of the soldiers on the spot, who now so
loudly proclaimed the danger of their position, when they reached
Athens would proclaim just as loudly the opposite, and would say
that their generals had been bribed to betray them and return.  For
himself, therefore, who knew the Athenian temper, sooner than perish
under a dishonourable charge and by an unjust sentence at the hands of
the Athenians, he would rather take his chance and die, if die he
must, a soldier's death at the hand of the enemy.  Besides, after
all, the Syracusans were in a worse case than themselves.  What with
paying mercenaries, spending upon fortified posts, and now for a
full year maintaining a large navy, they were already at a loss and
would soon be at a standstill: they had already spent two thousand
talents and incurred heavy debts besides, and could not lose even ever
so small a fraction of their present force through not paying it,
without ruin to their cause; depending as they did more upon
mercenaries than upon soldiers obliged to serve, like their own.  He
therefore said that they ought to stay and carry on the siege, and not
depart defeated in point of money, in which they were much superior.

Nicias spoke positively because he had exact information of the
financial distress at Syracuse, and also because of the strength of
the Athenian party there which kept sending him messages not to
raise the siege; besides which he had more confidence than before in
his fleet, and felt sure at least of its success.  Demosthenes,
however, would not hear for a moment of continuing the siege, but said
that if they could not lead off the army without a decree from Athens,
and if they were obliged to stay on, they ought to remove to Thapsus
or Catana; where their land forces would have a wide extent of country
to overrun, and could live by plundering the enemy, and would thus
do them damage; while the fleet would have the open sea to fight in,
that is to say, instead of a narrow space which was all in the enemy's
favour, a wide sea-room where their science would be of use, and where
they could retreat or advance without being confined or
circumscribed either when they put out or put in.  In any case he was
altogether opposed to their staying on where they were, and insisted
on removing at once, as quickly and with as little delay as
possible; and in this judgment Eurymedon agreed.  Nicias however
still objecting, a certain diffidence and hesitation came over them,
with a suspicion that Nicias might have some further information to
make him so positive.




CHAPTER XXIII

_Nineteenth Year of the War - Battles in the Great Harbour -
Retreat and Annihilation of the Athenian Army_

While the Athenians lingered on in this way without moving from
where they were, Gylippus and Sicanus now arrived at Syracuse.  Sicanus
had failed to gain Agrigentum, the party friendly to the Syracusans
having been driven out while he was still at Gela; but Gylippus was
accompanied not only by a large number of troops raised in Sicily, but
by the heavy infantry sent off in the spring from Peloponnese in the
merchantmen, who had arrived at Selinus from Libya.  They had been
carried to Libya by a storm, and having obtained two galleys and
pilots from the Cyrenians, on their voyage alongshore had taken
sides with the Euesperitae and had defeated the Libyans who were
besieging them, and from thence coasting on to Neapolis, a
Carthaginian mart, and the nearest point to Sicily, from which it is
only two days' and a night's voyage, there crossed over and came to
Selinus.  Immediately upon their arrival the Syracusans prepared to
attack the Athenians again by land and sea at once.  The Athenian
generals seeing a fresh army come to the aid of the enemy, and that
their own circumstances, far from improving, were becoming daily
worse, and above all distressed by the sickness of the soldiers, now
began to repent of not having removed before; and Nicias no longer
offering the same opposition, except by urging that there should be no
open voting, they gave orders as secretly as possible for all to be
prepared to sail out from the camp at a given signal.  All was at
last ready, and they were on the point of sailing away, when an
eclipse of the moon, which was then at the full, took place.  Most of
the Athenians, deeply impressed by this occurrence, now urged the
generals to wait; and Nicias, who was somewhat over-addicted to
divination and practices of that kind, refused from that moment even
to take the question of departure into consideration, until they had
waited the thrice nine days prescribed by the soothsayers.

The besiegers were thus condemned to stay in the country; and the
Syracusans, getting wind of what had happened, became more eager
than ever to press the Athenians, who had now themselves
acknowledged that they were no longer their superiors either by sea or
by land, as otherwise they would never have planned to sail away.
Besides which the Syracusans did not wish them to settle in any
other part of Sicily, where they would be more difficult to deal with,
but desired to force them to fight at sea as quickly as possible, in a
position favourable to themselves.  Accordingly they manned their ships
and practised for as many days as they thought sufficient.  When the
moment arrived they assaulted on the first day the Athenian lines, and
upon a small force of heavy infantry and horse sallying out against
them by certain gates, cut off some of the former and routed and
pursued them to the lines, where, as the entrance was narrow, the
Athenians lost seventy horses and some few of the heavy infantry.

Drawing off their troops for this day, on the next the Syracusans
went out with a fleet of seventy-six sail, and at the same time
advanced with their land forces against the lines.  The Athenians put
out to meet them with eighty-six ships, came to close quarters, and
engaged.  The Syracusans and their allies first defeated the Athenian
centre, and then caught Eurymedon, the commander of the right wing,
who was sailing out from the line more towards the land in order to
surround the enemy, in the hollow and recess of the harbour, and
killed him and destroyed the ships accompanying him; after which
they now chased the whole Athenian fleet before them and drove them
ashore.

Gylippus seeing the enemy's fleet defeated and carried ashore beyond
their stockades and camp, ran down to the breakwater with some of
his troops, in order to cut off the men as they landed and make it
easier for the Syracusans to tow off the vessels by the shore being
friendly ground.  The Tyrrhenians who guarded this point for the
Athenians, seeing them come on in disorder, advanced out against
them and attacked and routed their van, hurling it into the marsh of
Lysimeleia.  Afterwards the Syracusan and allied troops arrived in
greater numbers, and the Athenians fearing for their ships came up
also to the rescue and engaged them, and defeated and pursued them
to some distance and killed a few of their heavy infantry.  They
succeeded in rescuing most of their ships and brought them down by
their camp; eighteen however were taken by the Syracusans and their
allies, and all the men killed.  The rest the enemy tried to burn by
means of an old merchantman which they filled with faggots and
pine-wood, set on fire, and let drift down the wind which blew full on
the Athenians.  The Athenians, however, alarmed for their ships,
contrived means for stopping it and putting it out, and checking the
flames and the nearer approach of the merchantman, thus escaped the
danger.

After this the Syracusans set up a trophy for the sea-fight and
for the heavy infantry whom they had cut off up at the lines, where
they took the horses; and the Athenians for the rout of the foot
driven by the Tyrrhenians into the marsh, and for their own victory
with the rest of the army.

The Syracusans had now gained a decisive victory at sea, where until
now they had feared the reinforcement brought by Demosthenes, and
deep, in consequence, was the despondency of the Athenians, and
great their disappointment, and greater still their regret for
having come on the expedition.  These were the only cities that they
had yet encountered, similar to their own in character, under
democracies like themselves, which had ships and horses, and were of
considerable magnitude.  They had been unable to divide and bring
them over by holding out the prospect of changes in their governments,
or to crush them by their great superiority in force, but had failed
in most of their attempts, and being already in perplexity, had now
been defeated at sea, where defeat could never have been expected, and
were thus plunged deeper in embarrassment than ever.

Meanwhile the Syracusans immediately began to sail freely along
the harbour, and determined to close up its mouth, so that the
Athenians might not be able to steal out in future, even if they
wished.  Indeed, the Syracusans no longer thought only of saving
themselves, but also how to hinder the escape of the enemy;
thinking, and thinking rightly, that they were now much the
stronger, and that to conquer the Athenians and their allies by land
and sea would win them great glory in Hellas.  The rest of the Hellenes
would thus immediately be either freed or released from
apprehension, as the remaining forces of Athens would be henceforth
unable to sustain the war that would be waged against her; while they,
the Syracusans, would be regarded as the authors of this
deliverance, and would be held in high admiration, not only with all
men now living but also with posterity.  Nor were these the only
considerations that gave dignity to the struggle.  They would thus
conquer not only the Athenians but also their numerous allies, and
conquer not alone, but with their companions in arms, commanding
side by side with the Corinthians and Lacedaemonians, having offered
their city to stand in the van of danger, and having been in a great
measure the pioneers of naval success.

Indeed, there were never so many peoples assembled before a single
city, if we except the grand total gathered together in this war under
Athens and Lacedaemon.  The following were the states on either side
who came to Syracuse to fight for or against Sicily, to help to
conquer or defend the island.  Right or community of blood was not
the bond of union between them, so much as interest or compulsion as
the case might be.  The Athenians themselves being Ionians went against
the Dorians of Syracuse of their own free will; and the peoples
still speaking Attic and using the Athenian laws, the Lemnians,
Imbrians, and Aeginetans, that is to say the then occupants of Aegina,
being their colonists, went with them.  To these must be also added the
Hestiaeans dwelling at Hestiaea in Euboea.  Of the rest some joined
in the expedition as subjects of the Athenians, others as
independent allies, others as mercenaries.  To the number of the
subjects paying tribute belonged the Eretrians, Chalcidians, Styrians,
and Carystians from Euboea; the Ceans, Andrians, and Tenians from
the islands; and the Milesians, Samians, and Chians from Ionia.  The
Chians, however, joined as independent allies, paying no tribute,
but furnishing ships.  Most of these were Ionians and descended from
the Athenians, except the Carystians, who are Dryopes, and although
subjects and obliged to serve, were still Ionians fighting against
Dorians.  Besides these there were men of Aeolic race, the Methymnians,
subjects who provided ships, not tribute, and the Tenedians and
Aenians who paid tribute.  These Aeolians fought against their
Aeolian founders, the Boeotians in the Syracusan army, because they
were obliged, while the Plataeans, the only native Boeotians opposed
to Boeotians, did so upon a just quarrel.  Of the Rhodians and
Cytherians, both Dorians, the latter, Lacedaemonian colonists,
fought in the Athenian ranks against their Lacedaemonian countrymen
with Gylippus; while the Rhodians, Argives by race, were compelled
to bear arms against the Dorian Syracusans and their own colonists,
the Geloans, serving with the Syracusans.  Of the islanders round
Peloponnese, the Cephallenians and Zacynthians accompanied the
Athenians as independent allies, although their insular position
really left them little choice in the matter, owing to the maritime
supremacy of Athens, while the Corcyraeans, who were not only
Dorians but Corinthians, were openly serving against Corinthians and
Syracusans, although colonists of the former and of the same race as
the latter, under colour of compulsion, but really out of free will
through hatred of Corinth.  The Messenians, as they are now called in
Naupactus and from Pylos, then held by the Athenians, were taken
with them to the war.  There were also a few Megarian exiles, whose
fate it was to be now fighting against the Megarian Selinuntines.

The engagement of the rest was more of a voluntary nature.  It was
less the league than hatred of the Lacedaemonians and the immediate
private advantage of each individual that persuaded the Dorian Argives
to join the Ionian Athenians in a war against Dorians; while the
Mantineans and other Arcadian mercenaries, accustomed to go against
the enemy pointed out to them at the moment, were led by interest to
regard the Arcadians serving with the Corinthians as just as much
their enemies as any others.  The Cretans and Aetolians also served for
hire, and the Cretans who had joined the Rhodians in founding Gela,
thus came to consent to fight for pay against, instead of for, their
colonists.  There were also some Acarnanians paid to serve, although
they came chiefly for love of Demosthenes and out of goodwill to the
Athenians whose allies they were.  These all lived on the Hellenic side
of the Ionian Gulf.  Of the Italiots, there were the Thurians and
Metapontines, dragged into the quarrel by the stern necessities of a
time of revolution; of the Siceliots, the Naxians and the Catanians;
and of the barbarians, the Egestaeans, who called in the Athenians,
most of the Sicels, and outside Sicily some Tyrrhenian enemies of
Syracuse and Iapygian mercenaries.

Such were the peoples serving with the Athenians.  Against these
the Syracusans had the Camarinaeans their neighbours, the Geloans
who live next to them; then passing over the neutral Agrigentines, the
Selinuntines settled on the farther side of the island.  These
inhabit the part of Sicily looking towards Libya; the Himeraeans
came from the side towards the Tyrrhenian Sea, being the only Hellenic
inhabitants in that quarter, and the only people that came from thence
to the aid of the Syracusans.  Of the Hellenes in Sicily the above
peoples joined in the war, all Dorians and independent, and of the
barbarians the Sicels only, that is to say, such as did not go over to
the Athenians.  Of the Hellenes outside Sicily there were the
Lacedaemonians, who provided a Spartan to take the command, and a
force of Neodamodes or Freedmen, and of Helots; the Corinthians, who
alone joined with naval and land forces, with their Leucadian and
Ambraciot kinsmen; some mercenaries sent by Corinth from Arcadia; some
Sicyonians forced to serve, and from outside Peloponnese the
Boeotians.  In comparison, however, with these foreign auxiliaries, the
great Siceliot cities furnished more in every department--numbers of
heavy infantry, ships, and horses, and an immense multitude besides
having been brought together; while in comparison, again, one may say,
with all the rest put together, more was provided by the Syracusans
themselves, both from the greatness of the city and from the fact that
they were in the greatest danger.

Such were the auxiliaries brought together on either side, all of
which had by this time joined, neither party experiencing any
subsequent accession.  It was no wonder, therefore, if the Syracusans
and their allies thought that it would win them great glory if they
could follow up their recent victory in the sea-fight by the capture
of the whole Athenian armada, without letting it escape either by
sea or by land.  They began at once to close up the Great Harbour by
means of boats, merchant vessels, and galleys moored broadside
across its mouth, which is nearly a mile wide, and made all their
other arrangements for the event of the Athenians again venturing to
fight at sea.  There was, in fact, nothing little either in their plans
or their ideas.

The Athenians, seeing them closing up the harbour and informed of
their further designs, called a council of war.  The generals and
colonels assembled and discussed the difficulties of the situation;
the point which pressed most being that they no longer had
provisions for immediate use (having sent on to Catana to tell them
not to send any, in the belief that they were going away), and that
they would not have any in future unless they could command the sea.
They therefore determined to evacuate their upper lines, to enclose
with a cross wall and garrison a small space close to the ships,
only just sufficient to hold their stores and sick, and manning all
the ships, seaworthy or not, with every man that could be spared
from the rest of their land forces, to fight it out at sea, and, if
victorious, to go to Catana, if not, to burn their vessels, form in
close order, and retreat by land for the nearest friendly place they
could reach, Hellenic or barbarian.  This was no sooner settled than
carried into effect; they descended gradually from the upper lines and
manned all their vessels, compelling all to go on board who were of
age to be in any way of use.  They thus succeeded in manning about
one hundred and ten ships in all, on board of which they embarked a
number of archers and darters taken from the Acarnanians and from
the other foreigners, making all other provisions allowed by the
nature of their plan and by the necessities which imposed it.  All
was now nearly ready, and Nicias, seeing the soldiery disheartened
by their unprecedented and decided defeat at sea, and by reason of the
scarcity of provisions eager to fight it out as soon as possible,
called them all together, and first addressed them, speaking as
follows:

"Soldiers of the Athenians and of the allies, we have all an equal
interest in the coming struggle, in which life and country are at
stake for us quite as much as they can be for the enemy; since if
our fleet wins the day, each can see his native city again, wherever
that city may be.  You must not lose heart, or be like men without
any experience, who fail in a first essay and ever afterwards
fearfully forebode a future as disastrous.  But let the Athenians among
you who have already had experience of many wars, and the allies who
have joined us in so many expeditions, remember the surprises of
war, and with the hope that fortune will not be always against us,
prepare to fight again in a manner worthy of the number which you
see yourselves to be.

"Now, whatever we thought would be of service against the crush of
vessels in such a narrow harbour, and against the force upon the decks
of the enemy, from which we suffered before, has all been considered
with the helmsmen, and, as far as our means allowed, provided.  A
number of archers and darters will go on board, and a multitude that
we should not have employed in an action in the open sea, where our
science would be crippled by the weight of the vessels; but in the
present land-fight that we are forced to make from shipboard all
this will be useful.  We have also discovered the changes in
construction that we must make to meet theirs; and against the
thickness of their cheeks, which did us the greatest mischief, we have
provided grappling-irons, which will prevent an assailant backing
water after charging, if the soldiers on deck here do their duty;
since we are absolutely compelled to fight a land battle from the
fleet, and it seems to be our interest neither to back water
ourselves, nor to let the enemy do so, especially as the shore, except
so much of it as may be held by our troops, is hostile ground.

"You must remember this and fight on as long as you can, and must
not let yourselves be driven ashore, but once alongside must make up
your minds not to part company until you have swept the heavy infantry
from the enemy's deck.  I say this more for the heavy infantry than for
the seamen, as it is more the business of the men on deck; and our
land forces are even now on the whole the strongest.  The sailors I
advise, and at the same time implore, not to be too much daunted by
their misfortunes, now that we have our decks better armed and greater
number of vessels.  Bear in mind how well worth preserving is the
pleasure felt by those of you who through your knowledge of our
language and imitation of our manners were always considered
Athenians, even though not so in reality, and as such were honoured
throughout Hellas, and had your full share of the advantages of our
empire, and more than your share in the respect of our subjects and in
protection from ill treatment.  You, therefore, with whom alone we
freely share our empire, we now justly require not to betray that
empire in its extremity, and in scorn of Corinthians, whom you have
often conquered, and of Siceliots, none of whom so much as presumed to
stand against us when our navy was in its prime, we ask you to repel
them, and to show that even in sickness and disaster your skill is
more than a match for the fortune and vigour of any other.

"For the Athenians among you I add once more this reflection: You
left behind you no more such ships in your docks as these, no more
heavy infantry in their flower; if you do aught but conquer, our
enemies here will immediately sail thither, and those that are left of
us at Athens will become unable to repel their home assailants,
reinforced by these new allies.  Here you will fall at once into the
hands of the Syracusans--I need not remind you of the intentions with
which you attacked them--and your countrymen at home will fall into
those of the Lacedaemonians.  Since the fate of both thus hangs upon
this single battle, now, if ever, stand firm, and remember, each and
all, that you who are now going on board are the army and navy of
the Athenians, and all that is left of the state and the great name of
Athens, in whose defence if any man has any advantage in skill or
courage, now is the time for him to show it, and thus serve himself
and save all."

After this address Nicias at once gave orders to man the ships.
Meanwhile Gylippus and the Syracusans could perceive by the
preparations which they saw going on that the Athenians meant to fight
at sea.  They had also notice of the grappling-irons, against which
they specially provided by stretching hides over the prows and much of
the upper part of their vessels, in order that the irons when thrown
might slip off without taking hold.  All being now ready, the
generals and Gylippus addressed them in the following terms:

"Syracusans and allies, the glorious character of our past
achievements and the no less glorious results at issue in the coming
battle are, we think, understood by most of you, or you would never
have thrown yourselves with such ardour into the struggle; and if
there be any one not as fully aware of the facts as he ought to be, we
will declare them to him.  The Athenians came to this country first
to effect the conquest of Sicily, and after that, if successful, of
Peloponnese and the rest of Hellas, possessing already the greatest
empire yet known, of present or former times, among the Hellenes.  Here
for the first time they found in you men who faced their navy which
made them masters everywhere; you have already defeated them in the
previous sea-fights, and will in all likelihood defeat them again now.
When men are once checked in what they consider their special
excellence, their whole opinion of themselves suffers more than if
they had not at first believed in their superiority, the unexpected
shock to their pride causing them to give way more than their real
strength warrants; and this is probably now the case with the
Athenians.

"With us it is different.  The original estimate of ourselves which
gave us courage in the days of our unskilfulness has been
strengthened, while the conviction superadded to it that we must be
the best seamen of the time, if we have conquered the best, has
given a double measure of hope to every man among us; and, for the
most part, where there is the greatest hope, there is also the
greatest ardour for action.  The means to combat us which they have
tried to find in copying our armament are familiar to our warfare, and
will be met by proper provisions; while they will never be able to
have a number of heavy infantry on their decks, contrary to their
custom, and a number of darters (born landsmen, one may say,
Acarnanians and others, embarked afloat, who will not know how to
discharge their weapons when they have to keep still), without
hampering their vessels and falling all into confusion among
themselves through fighting not according to their own tactics.  For
they will gain nothing by the number of their ships--I say this to
those of you who may be alarmed by having to fight against odds--as a
quantity of ships in a confined space will only be slower in executing
the movements required, and most exposed to injury from our means of
offence.  Indeed, if you would know the plain truth, as we are credibly
informed, the excess of their sufferings and the necessities of
their present distress have made them desperate; they have no
confidence in their force, but wish to try their fortune in the only
way they can, and either to force their passage and sail out, or after
this to retreat by land, it being impossible for them to be worse
off than they are.

"The fortune of our greatest enemies having thus betrayed itself,
and their disorder being what I have described, let us engage in
anger, convinced that, as between adversaries, nothing is more
legitimate than to claim to sate the whole wrath of one's soul in
punishing the aggressor, and nothing more sweet, as the proverb has
it, than the vengeance upon an enemy, which it will now be ours to
take.  That enemies they are and mortal enemies you all know, since
they came here to enslave our country, and if successful had in
reserve for our men all that is most dreadful, and for our children
and wives all that is most dishonourable, and for the whole city the
name which conveys the greatest reproach.  None should therefore relent
or think it gain if they go away without further danger to us.  This
they will do just the same, even if they get the victory; while if
we succeed, as we may expect, in chastising them, and in handing
down to all Sicily her ancient freedom strengthened and confirmed,
we shall have achieved no mean triumph.  And the rarest dangers are
those in which failure brings little loss and success the greatest
advantage."

After the above address to the soldiers on their side, the Syracusan
generals and Gylippus now perceived that the Athenians were manning
their ships, and immediately proceeded to man their own also.
Meanwhile Nicias, appalled by the position of affairs, realizing the
greatness and the nearness of the danger now that they were on the
point of putting out from shore, and thinking, as men are apt to think
in great crises, that when all has been done they have still something
left to do, and when all has been said that they have not yet said
enough, again called on the captains one by one, addressing each by
his father's name and by his own, and by that of his tribe, and
adjured them not to belie their own personal renown, or to obscure the
hereditary virtues for which their ancestors were illustrious: he
reminded them of their country, the freest of the free, and of the
unfettered discretion allowed in it to all to live as they pleased;
and added other arguments such as men would use at such a crisis,
and which, with little alteration, are made to serve on all
occasions alike--appeals to wives, children, and national
gods--without caring whether they are thought commonplace, but loudly
invoking them in the belief that they will be of use in the
consternation of the moment.  Having thus admonished them, not, he
felt, as he would, but as he could, Nicias withdrew and led the troops
to the sea, and ranged them in as long a line as he was able, in order
to aid as far as possible in sustaining the courage of the men afloat;
while Demosthenes, Menander, and Euthydemus, who took the command on
board, put out from their own camp and sailed straight to the
barrier across the mouth of the harbour and to the passage left
open, to try to force their way out.

The Syracusans and their allies had already put out with about the
same number of ships as before, a part of which kept guard at the
outlet, and the remainder all round the rest of the harbour, in
order to attack the Athenians on all sides at once; while the land
forces held themselves in readiness at the points at which the vessels
might put into the shore.  The Syracusan fleet was commanded by Sicanus
and Agatharchus, who had each a wing of the whole force, with Pythen
and the Corinthians in the centre.  When the rest of the Athenians came
up to the barrier, with the first shock of their charge they
overpowered the ships stationed there, and tried to undo the
fastenings; after this, as the Syracusans and allies bore down upon
them from all quarters, the action spread from the barrier over the
whole harbour, and was more obstinately disputed than any of the
preceding ones.  On either side the rowers showed great zeal in
bringing up their vessels at the boatswains' orders, and the
helmsmen great skill in manoeuvring, and great emulation one with
another; while the ships once alongside, the soldiers on board did
their best not to let the service on deck be outdone by the others; in
short, every man strove to prove himself the first in his particular
department.  And as many ships were engaged in a small compass (for
these were the largest fleets fighting in the narrowest space ever
known, being together little short of two hundred), the regular
attacks with the beak were few, there being no opportunity of
backing water or of breaking the line; while the collisions caused
by one ship chancing to run foul of another, either in flying from
or attacking a third, were more frequent.  So long as a vessel was
coming up to the charge the men on the decks rained darts and arrows
and stones upon her; but once alongside, the heavy infantry tried to
board each other's vessel, fighting hand to hand.  In many quarters
it happened, by reason of the narrow room, that a vessel was
charging an enemy on one side and being charged herself on another,
and that two or sometimes more ships had perforce got entangled
round one, obliging the helmsmen to attend to defence here, offence
there, not to one thing at once, but to many on all sides; while the
huge din caused by the number of ships crashing together not only
spread terror, but made the orders of the boatswains inaudible.  The
boatswains on either side in the discharge of their duty and in the
heat of the conflict shouted incessantly orders and appeals to their
men; the Athenians they urged to force the passage out, and now if
ever to show their mettle and lay hold of a safe return to their
country; to the Syracusans and their allies they cried that it would
be glorious to prevent the escape of the enemy, and, conquering, to
exalt the countries that were theirs.  The generals, moreover, on
either side, if they saw any in any part of the battle backing
ashore without being forced to do so, called out to the captain by
name and asked him--the Athenians, whether they were retreating
because they thought the thrice hostile shore more their own than
that sea which had cost them so much labour to win; the Syracusans,
whether they were flying from the flying Athenians, whom they well
knew to be eager to escape in whatever way they could.

Meanwhile the two armies on shore, while victory hung in the
balance, were a prey to the most agonizing and conflicting emotions;
the natives thirsting for more glory than they had already won,
while the invaders feared to find themselves in even worse plight than
before.  The all of the Athenians being set upon their fleet, their
fear for the event was like nothing they had ever felt; while their
view of the struggle was necessarily as chequered as the battle
itself.  Close to the scene of action and not all looking at the same
point at once, some saw their friends victorious and took courage
and fell to calling upon heaven not to deprive them of salvation,
while others who had their eyes turned upon the losers, wailed and
cried aloud, and, although spectators, were more overcome than the
actual combatants.  Others, again, were gazing at some spot where the
battle was evenly disputed; as the strife was protracted without
decision, their swaying bodies reflected the agitation of their minds,
and they suffered the worst agony of all, ever just within reach of
safety or just on the point of destruction.  In short, in that one
Athenian army as long as the sea-fight remained doubtful there was
every sound to be heard at once, shrieks, cheers, "We win," "We lose,"
and all the other manifold exclamations that a great host would
necessarily utter in great peril; and with the men in the fleet it was
nearly the same; until at last the Syracusans and their allies,
after the battle had lasted a long while, put the Athenians to flight,
and with much shouting and cheering chased them in open rout to the
shore.  The naval force, one one way, one another, as many as were
not taken afloat now ran ashore and rushed from on board their ships
to their camp; while the army, no more divided, but carried away by
one impulse, all with shrieks and groans deplored the event, and ran
down, some to help the ships, others to guard what was left of their
wall, while the remaining and most numerous part already began to
consider how they should save themselves.  Indeed, the panic of the
present moment had never been surpassed.  They now suffered very nearly
what they had inflicted at Pylos; as then the Lacedaemonians with
the loss of their fleet lost also the men who had crossed over to
the island, so now the Athenians had no hope of escaping by land,
without the help of some extraordinary accident.

The sea-fight having been a severe one, and many ships and lives
having been lost on both sides, the victorious Syracusans and their
allies now picked up their wrecks and dead, and sailed off to the city
and set up a trophy.  The Athenians, overwhelmed by their misfortune,
never even thought of asking leave to take up their dead or wrecks,
but wished to retreat that very night.  Demosthenes, however, went to
Nicias and gave it as his opinion that they should man the ships
they had left and make another effort to force their passage out
next morning; saying that they had still left more ships fit for
service than the enemy, the Athenians having about sixty remaining
as against less than fifty of their opponents.  Nicias was quite of his
mind; but when they wished to man the vessels, the sailors refused
to go on board, being so utterly overcome by their defeat as no longer
to believe in the possibility of success.

Accordingly they all now made up their minds to retreat by land.
Meanwhile the Syracusan Hermocrates--suspecting their intention, and
impressed by the danger of allowing a force of that magnitude to
retire by land, establish itself in some other part of Sicily, and
from thence renew the war--went and stated his views to the
authorities, and pointed out to them that they ought not to let the
enemy get away by night, but that all the Syracusans and their
allies should at once march out and block up the roads and seize and
guard the passes.  The authorities were entirely of his opinion, and
thought that it ought to be done, but on the other hand felt sure that
the people, who had given themselves over to rejoicing, and were
taking their ease after a great battle at sea, would not be easily
brought to obey; besides, they were celebrating a festival, having
on that day a sacrifice to Heracles, and most of them in their rapture
at the victory had fallen to drinking at the festival, and would
probably consent to anything sooner than to take up their arms and
march out at that moment.  For these reasons the thing appeared
impracticable to the magistrates; and Hermocrates, finding himself
unable to do anything further with them, had now recourse to the
following stratagem of his own.  What he feared was that the
Athenians might quietly get the start of them by passing the most
difficult places during the night; and he therefore sent, as soon as
it was dusk, some friends of his own to the camp with some horsemen
who rode up within earshot and called out to some of the men, as
though they were well-wishers of the Athenians, and told them to
tell Nicias (who had in fact some correspondents who informed him of
what went on inside the town) not to lead off the army by night as the
Syracusans were guarding the roads, but to make his preparations at
his leisure and to retreat by day.  After saying this they departed;
and their hearers informed the Athenian generals, who put off going
for that night on the strength of this message, not doubting its
sincerity.

Since after all they had not set out at once, they now determined to
stay also the following day to give time to the soldiers to pack up as
well as they could the most useful articles, and, leaving everything
else behind, to start only with what was strictly necessary for
their personal subsistence.  Meanwhile the Syracusans and Gylippus
marched out and blocked up the roads through the country by which
the Athenians were likely to pass, and kept guard at the fords of
the streams and rivers, posting themselves so as to receive them and
stop the army where they thought best; while their fleet sailed up
to the beach and towed off the ships of the Athenians.  Some few were
burned by the Athenians themselves as they had intended; the rest
the Syracusans lashed on to their own at their leisure as they had
been thrown up on shore, without any one trying to stop them, and
conveyed to the town.

After this, Nicias and Demosthenes now thinking that enough had been
done in the way of preparation, the removal of the army took place
upon the second day after the sea-fight.  It was a lamentable scene,
not merely from the single circumstance that they were retreating
after having lost all their ships, their great hopes gone, and
themselves and the state in peril; but also in leaving the camp
there were things most grievous for every eye and heart to
contemplate.  The dead lay unburied, and each man as he recognized a
friend among them shuddered with grief and horror; while the living
whom they were leaving behind, wounded or sick, were to the living far
more shocking than the dead, and more to be pitied than those who
had perished.  These fell to entreating and bewailing until their
friends knew not what to do, begging them to take them and loudly
calling to each individual comrade or relative whom they could see,
hanging upon the necks of their tent-fellows in the act of
departure, and following as far as they could, and, when their
bodily strength failed them, calling again and again upon heaven and
shrieking aloud as they were left behind.  So that the whole army being
filled with tears and distracted after this fashion found it not
easy to go, even from an enemy's land, where they had already suffered
evils too great for tears and in the unknown future before them feared
to suffer more.  Dejection and self-condemnation were also rife among
them.  Indeed they could only be compared to a starved-out town, and
that no small one, escaping; the whole multitude upon the march
being not less than forty thousand men.  All carried anything they
could which might be of use, and the heavy infantry and troopers,
contrary to their wont, while under arms carried their own victuals,
in some cases for want of servants, in others through not trusting
them; as they had long been deserting and now did so in greater
numbers than ever.  Yet even thus they did not carry enough, as there
was no longer food in the camp.  Moreover their disgrace generally, and
the universality of their sufferings, however to a certain extent
alleviated by being borne in company, were still felt at the moment
a heavy burden, especially when they contrasted the splendour and
glory of their setting out with the humiliation in which it had ended.
For this was by far the greatest reverse that ever befell an
Hellenic army.  They had come to enslave others, and were departing
in fear of being enslaved themselves: they had sailed out with
prayer and paeans, and now started to go back with omens directly
contrary; travelling by land instead of by sea, and trusting not in
their fleet but in their heavy infantry.  Nevertheless the greatness of
the danger still impending made all this appear tolerable.

Nicias seeing the army dejected and greatly altered, passed along
the ranks and encouraged and comforted them as far as was possible
under the circumstances, raising his voice still higher and higher
as he went from one company to another in his earnestness, and in
his anxiety that the benefit of his words might reach as many as
possible:

"Athenians and allies, even in our present position we must still
hope on, since men have ere now been saved from worse straits than
this; and you must not condemn yourselves too severely either
because of your disasters or because of your present unmerited
sufferings.  I myself who am not superior to any of you in
strength--indeed you see how I am in my sickness--and who in the gifts
of fortune am, I think, whether in private life or otherwise, the
equal of any, am now exposed to the same danger as the meanest among
you; and yet my life has been one of much devotion toward the gods,
and of much justice and without offence toward men.  I have, therefore,
still a strong hope for the future, and our misfortunes do not terrify
me as much as they might.  Indeed we may hope that they will be
lightened: our enemies have had good fortune enough; and if any of the
gods was offended at our expedition, we have been already amply
punished.  Others before us have attacked their neighbours and have
done what men will do without suffering more than they could bear; and
we may now justly expect to find the gods more kind, for we have
become fitter objects for their pity than their jealousy.  And then
look at yourselves, mark the numbers and efficiency of the heavy
infantry marching in your ranks, and do not give way too much to
despondency, but reflect that you are yourselves at once a city
wherever you sit down, and that there is no other in Sicily that could
easily resist your attack, or expel you when once established.  The
safety and order of the march is for yourselves to look to; the one
thought of each man being that the spot on which he may be forced to
fight must be conquered and held as his country and stronghold.
Meanwhile we shall hasten on our way night and day alike, as our
provisions are scanty; and if we can reach some friendly place of
the Sicels, whom fear of the Syracusans still keeps true to us, you
may forthwith consider yourselves safe.  A message has been sent on
to them with directions to meet us with supplies of food.  To sum up,
be convinced, soldiers, that you must be brave, as there is no place
near for your cowardice to take refuge in, and that if you now
escape from the enemy, you may all see again what your hearts
desire, while those of you who are Athenians will raise up again the
great power of the state, fallen though it be.  Men make the city and
not walls or ships without men in them."

As he made this address, Nicias went along the ranks, and brought
back to their place any of the troops that he saw straggling out of
the line; while Demosthenes did as much for his part of the army,
addressing them in words very similar.  The army marched in a hollow
square, the division under Nicias leading, and that of Demosthenes
following, the heavy infantry being outside and the baggage-carriers
and the bulk of the army in the middle.  When they arrived at the
ford of the river Anapus there they found drawn up a body of the
Syracusans and allies, and routing these, made good their passage
and pushed on, harassed by the charges of the Syracusan horse and by
the missiles of their light troops.  On that day they advanced about
four miles and a half, halting for the night upon a certain hill.  On
the next they started early and got on about two miles further, and
descended into a place in the plain and there encamped, in order to
procure some eatables from the houses, as the place was inhabited, and
to carry on with them water from thence, as for many furlongs in
front, in the direction in which they were going, it was not
plentiful.  The Syracusans meanwhile went on and fortified the pass
in front, where there was a steep hill with a rocky ravine on each
side of it, called the Acraean cliff.  The next day the Athenians
advancing found themselves impeded by the missiles and charges of
the horse and darters, both very numerous, of the Syracusans and
allies; and after fighting for a long while, at length retired to
the same camp, where they had no longer provisions as before, it being
impossible to leave their position by reason of the cavalry.

Early next morning they started afresh and forced their way to the
hill, which had been fortified, where they found before them the
enemy's infantry drawn up many shields deep to defend the
fortification, the pass being narrow.  The Athenians assaulted the
work, but were greeted by a storm of missiles from the hill, which
told with the greater effect through its being a steep one, and unable
to force the passage, retreated again and rested.  Meanwhile occurred
some claps of thunder and rain, as often happens towards autumn, which
still further disheartened the Athenians, who thought all these things
to be omens of their approaching ruin.  While they were resting,
Gylippus and the Syracusans sent a part of their army to throw up
works in their rear on the way by which they had advanced; however,
the Athenians immediately sent some of their men and prevented them;
after which they retreated more towards the plain and halted for the
night.  When they advanced the next day the Syracusans surrounded and
attacked them on every side, and disabled many of them, falling back
if the Athenians advanced and coming on if they retired, and in
particular assaulting their rear, in the hope of routing them in
detail, and thus striking a panic into the whole army.  For a long
while the Athenians persevered in this fashion, but after advancing
for four or five furlongs halted to rest in the plain, the
Syracusans also withdrawing to their own camp.

During the night Nicias and Demosthenes, seeing the wretched
condition of their troops, now in want of every kind of necessary, and
numbers of them disabled in the numerous attacks of the enemy,
determined to light as many fires as possible, and to lead off the
army, no longer by the same route as they had intended, but towards
the sea in the opposite direction to that guarded by the Syracusans.
The whole of this route was leading the army not to Catana but to
the other side of Sicily, towards Camarina, Gela, and the other
Hellenic and barbarian towns in that quarter.  They accordingly lit a
number of fires and set out by night.  Now all armies, and the greatest
most of all, are liable to fears and alarms, especially when they
are marching by night through an enemy's country and with the enemy
near; and the Athenians falling into one of these panics, the
leading division, that of Nicias, kept together and got on a good
way in front, while that of Demosthenes, comprising rather more than
half the army, got separated and marched on in some disorder.  By
morning, however, they reached the sea, and getting into the
Helorine road, pushed on in order to reach the river Cacyparis, and to
follow the stream up through the interior, where they hoped to be
met by the Sicels whom they had sent for.  Arrived at the river, they
found there also a Syracusan party engaged in barring the passage of
the ford with a wall and a palisade, and forcing this guard, crossed
the river and went on to another called the Erineus, according to
the advice of their guides.

Meanwhile, when day came and the Syracusans and allies found that
the Athenians were gone, most of them accused Gylippus of having let
them escape on purpose, and hastily pursuing by the road which they
had no difficulty in finding that they had taken, overtook them
about dinner-time.  They first came up with the troops under
Demosthenes, who were behind and marching somewhat slowly and in
disorder, owing to the night panic above referred to, and at once
attacked and engaged them, the Syracusan horse surrounding them with
more ease now that they were separated from the rest and hemming
them in on one spot.  The division of Nicias was five or six miles on
in front, as he led them more rapidly, thinking that under the
circumstances their safety lay not in staying and fighting, unless
obliged, but in retreating as fast as possible, and only fighting when
forced to do so.  On the other hand, Demosthenes was, generally
speaking, harassed more incessantly, as his post in the rear left
him the first exposed to the attacks of the enemy; and now, finding
that the Syracusans were in pursuit, he omitted to push on, in order
to form his men for battle, and so lingered until he was surrounded by
his pursuers and himself and the Athenians with him placed in the most
distressing position, being huddled into an enclosure with a wall
all round it, a road on this side and on that, and olive-trees in
great number, where missiles were showered in upon them from every
quarter.  This mode of attack the Syracusans had with good reason
adopted in preference to fighting at close quarters, as to risk a
struggle with desperate men was now more for the advantage of the
Athenians than for their own; besides, their success had now become so
certain that they began to spare themselves a little in order not to
be cut off in the moment of victory, thinking too that, as it was,
they would be able in this way to subdue and capture the enemy.

In fact, after plying the Athenians and allies all day long from
every side with missiles, they at length saw that they were worn out
with their wounds and other sufferings; and Gylippus and the
Syracusans and their allies made a proclamation, offering their
liberty to any of the islanders who chose to come over to them; and
some few cities went over.  Afterwards a capitulation was agreed upon
for all the rest with Demosthenes, to lay down their arms on condition
that no one was to be put to death either by violence or
imprisonment or want of the necessaries of life.  Upon this they
surrendered to the number of six thousand in all, laying down all
the money in their possession, which filled the hollows of four
shields, and were immediately conveyed by the Syracusans to the town.

Meanwhile Nicias with his division arrived that day at the river
Erineus, crossed over, and posted his army upon some high ground
upon the other side.  The next day the Syracusans overtook him and told
him that the troops under Demosthenes had surrendered, and invited him
to follow their example.  Incredulous of the fact, Nicias asked for a
truce to send a horseman to see, and upon the return of the
messenger with the tidings that they had surrendered, sent a herald to
Gylippus and the Syracusans, saying that he was ready to agree with
them on behalf of the Athenians to repay whatever money the Syracusans
had spent upon the war if they would let his army go; and offered
until the money was paid to give Athenians as hostages, one for
every talent.  The Syracusans and Gylippus rejected this proposition,
and attacked this division as they had the other, standing all round
and plying them with missiles until the evening.  Food and
necessaries were as miserably wanting to the troops of Nicias as
they had been to their comrades; nevertheless they watched for the
quiet of the night to resume their march.  But as they were taking up
their arms the Syracusans perceived it and raised their paean, upon
which the Athenians, finding that they were discovered, laid them down
again, except about three hundred men who forced their way through the
guards and went on during the night as they were able.

As soon as it was day Nicias put his army in motion, pressed, as
before, by the Syracusans and their allies, pelted from every side
by their missiles, and struck down by their javelins.  The Athenians
pushed on for the Assinarus, impelled by the attacks made upon them
from every side by a numerous cavalry and the swarm of other arms,
fancying that they should breathe more freely if once across the
river, and driven on also by their exhaustion and craving for water.
Once there they rushed in, and all order was at an end, each man
wanting to cross first, and the attacks of the enemy making it
difficult to cross at all; forced to huddle together, they fell
against and trod down one another, some dying immediately upon the
javelins, others getting entangled together and stumbling over the
articles of baggage, without being able to rise again.  Meanwhile the
opposite bank, which was steep, was lined by the Syracusans, who
showered missiles down upon the Athenians, most of them drinking
greedily and heaped together in disorder in the hollow bed of the
river.  The Peloponnesians also came down and butchered them,
especially those in the water, which was thus immediately spoiled, but
which they went on drinking just the same, mud and all, bloody as it
was, most even fighting to have it.

At last, when many dead now lay piled one upon another in the
stream, and part of the army had been destroyed at the river, and
the few that escaped from thence cut off by the cavalry, Nicias
surrendered himself to Gylippus, whom he trusted more than he did
the Syracusans, and told him and the Lacedaemonians to do what they
liked with him, but to stop the slaughter of the soldiers.  Gylippus,
after this, immediately gave orders to make prisoners; upon which
the rest were brought together alive, except a large number secreted
by the soldiery, and a party was sent in pursuit of the three
hundred who had got through the guard during the night, and who were
now taken with the rest.  The number of the enemy collected as public
property was not considerable; but that secreted was very large, and
all Sicily was filled with them, no convention having been made in
their case as for those taken with Demosthenes.  Besides this, a
large portion were killed outright, the carnage being very great,
and not exceeded by any in this Sicilian war.  In the numerous other
encounters upon the march, not a few also had fallen.  Nevertheless
many escaped, some at the moment, others served as slaves, and then
ran away subsequently.  These found refuge at Catana.

The Syracusans and their allies now mustered and took up the
spoils and as many prisoners as they could, and went back to the city.
The rest of their Athenian and allied captives were deposited in the
quarries, this seeming the safest way of keeping them; but Nicias
and Demosthenes were butchered, against the will of Gylippus, who
thought that it would be the crown of his triumph if he could take the
enemy's generals to Lacedaemon.  One of them, as it happened,
Demosthenes, was one of her greatest enemies, on account of the affair
of the island and of Pylos; while the other, Nicias, was for the
same reasons one of her greatest friends, owing to his exertions to
procure the release of the prisoners by persuading the Athenians to
make peace.  For these reasons the Lacedaemonians felt kindly towards
him; and it was in this that Nicias himself mainly confided when he
surrendered to Gylippus.  But some of the Syracusans who had been in
correspondence with him were afraid, it was said, of his being put
to the torture and troubling their success by his revelations; others,
especially the Corinthians, of his escaping, as he was wealthy, by
means of bribes, and living to do them further mischief; and these
persuaded the allies and put him to death.  This or the like was the
cause of the death of a man who, of all the Hellenes in my time, least
deserved such a fate, seeing that the whole course of his life had
been regulated with strict attention to virtue.

The prisoners in the quarries were at first hardly treated by the
Syracusans.  Crowded in a narrow hole, without any roof to cover
them, the heat of the sun and the stifling closeness of the air
tormented them during the day, and then the nights, which came on
autumnal and chilly, made them ill by the violence of the change;
besides, as they had to do everything in the same place for want of
room, and the bodies of those who died of their wounds or from the
variation in the temperature, or from similar causes, were left heaped
together one upon another, intolerable stenches arose; while hunger
and thirst never ceased to afflict them, each man during eight
months having only half a pint of water and a pint of corn given him
daily.  In short, no single suffering to be apprehended by men thrust
into such a place was spared them.  For some seventy days they thus
lived all together, after which all, except the Athenians and any
Siceliots or Italiots who had joined in the expedition, were sold.  The
total number of prisoners taken it would be difficult to state
exactly, but it could not have been less than seven thousand.

This was the greatest Hellenic achievement of any in thig war, or,
in my opinion, in Hellenic history; at once most glorious to the
victors, and most calamitous to the conquered.  They were beaten at all
points and altogether; all that they suffered was great; they were
destroyed, as the saying is, with a total destruction, their fleet,
their army, everything was destroyed, and few out of many returned
home.  Such were the events in Sicily.




BOOK VIII

CHAPTER XXIV

_Nineteenth and Twentieth Years of the War - Revolt of Ionia -
Intervention of Persia - The War in Ionia_

When the news was brought to Athens, for a long while they
disbelieved even the most respectable of the soldiers who had
themselves escaped from the scene of action and clearly reported the
matter, a destruction so complete not being thought credible.  When the
conviction was forced upon them, they were angry with the orators
who had joined in promoting the expedition, just as if they had not
themselves voted it, and were enraged also with the reciters of
oracles and soothsayers, and all other omen-mongers of the time who
had encouraged them to hope that they should conquer Sicily.  Already
distressed at all points and in all quarters, after what had now
happened, they were seized by a fear and consternation quite without
example.  It was grievous enough for the state and for every man in his
proper person to lose so many heavy infantry, cavalry, and able-bodied
troops, and to see none left to replace them; but when they saw, also,
that they had not sufficient ships in their docks, or money in the
treasury, or crews for the ships, they began to despair of
salvation.  They thought that their enemies in Sicily would immediately
sail with their fleet against Piraeus, inflamed by so signal a
victory; while their adversaries at home, redoubling all their
preparations, would vigorously attack them by sea and land at once,
aided by their own revolted confederates.  Nevertheless, with such
means as they had, it was determined to resist to the last, and to
provide timber and money, and to equip a fleet as they best could,
to take steps to secure their confederates and above all Euboea, to
reform things in the city upon a more economical footing, and to elect
a board of elders to advise upon the state of affairs as occasion
should arise.  In short, as is the way of a democracy, in the panic
of the moment they were ready to be as prudent as possible.

These resolves were at once carried into effect.  Summer was now
over.  The winter ensuing saw all Hellas stirring under the
impression of the great Athenian disaster in Sicily.  Neutrals now felt
that even if uninvited they ought no longer to stand aloof from the
war, but should volunteer to march against the Athenians, who, as they
severally reflected, would probably have come against them if the
Sicilian campaign had succeeded.  Besides, they considered that the war
would now be short, and that it would be creditable for them to take
part in it.  Meanwhile the allies of the Lacedaemonians felt all more
anxious than ever to see a speedy end to their heavy labours.  But
above all, the subjects of the Athenians showed a readiness to
revolt even beyond their ability, judging the circumstances with
passion, and refusing even to hear of the Athenians being able to last
out the coming summer.  Beyond all this, Lacedaemon was encouraged by
the near prospect of being joined in great force in the spring by
her allies in Sicily, lately forced by events to acquire their navy.
With these reasons for confidence in every quarter, the Lacedaemonians
now resolved to throw themselves without reserve into the war,
considering that, once it was happily terminated, they would be
finally delivered from such dangers as that which would have
threatened them from Athens, if she had become mistress of Sicily, and
that the overthrow of the Athenians would leave them in quiet
enjoyment of the supremacy over all Hellas.

Their king, Agis, accordingly set out at once during this winter
with some troops from Decelea, and levied from the allies
contributions for the fleet, and turning towards the Malian Gulf
exacted a sum of money from the Oetaeans by carrying off most of their
cattle in reprisal for their old hostility, and, in spite of the
protests and opposition of the Thessalians, forced the Achaeans of
Phthiotis and the other subjects of the Thessalians in those parts
to give him money and hostages, and deposited the hostages at Corinth,
and tried to bring their countrymen into the confederacy.  The
Lacedaemonians now issued a requisition to the cities for building a
hundred ships, fixing their own quota and that of the Boeotians at
twenty-five each; that of the Phocians and Locrians together at
fifteen; that of the Corinthians at fifteen; that of the Arcadians,
Pellenians, and Sicyonians together at ten; and that of the Megarians,
Troezenians, Epidaurians, and Hermionians together at ten also; and
meanwhile made every other preparation for commencing hostilities by
the spring.

In the meantime the Athenians were not idle.  During this same
winter, as they had determined, they contributed timber and pushed
on their ship-building, and fortified Sunium to enable their
corn-ships to round it in safety, and evacuated the fort in Laconia
which they had built on their way to Sicily; while they also, for
economy, cut down any other expenses that seemed unnecessary, and
above all kept a careful look-out against the revolt of their
confederates.

While both parties were thus engaged, and were as intent upon
preparing for the war as they had been at the outset, the Euboeans
first of all sent envoys during this winter to Agis to treat of
their revolting from Athens.  Agis accepted their proposals, and sent
for Alcamenes, son of Sthenelaidas, and Melanthus from Lacedaemon,
to take the command in Euboea.  These accordingly arrived with some
three hundred Neodamodes, and Agis began to arrange for their crossing
over.  But in the meanwhile arrived some Lesbians, who also wished to
revolt; and these being supported by the Boeotians, Agis was persuaded
to defer acting in the matter of Euboea, and made arrangements for the
revolt of the Lesbians, giving them Alcamenes, who was to have
sailed to Euboea, as governor, and himself promising them ten ships,
and the Boeotians the same number.  All this was done without
instructions from home, as Agis while at Decelea with the army that he
commanded had power to send troops to whatever quarter he pleased, and
to levy men and money.  During this period, one might say, the allies
obeyed him much more than they did the Lacedaemonians in the city,
as the force he had with him made him feared at once wherever he went.
While Agis was engaged with the Lesbians, the Chians and
Erythraeans, who were also ready to revolt, applied, not to him but at
Lacedaemon; where they arrived accompanied by an ambassador from
Tissaphernes, the commander of King Darius, son of Artaxerxes, in
the maritime districts, who invited the Peloponnesians to come over,
and promised to maintain their army.  The King had lately called upon
him for the tribute from his government, for which he was in
arrears, being unable to raise it from the Hellenic towns by reason of
the Athenians; and he therefore calculated that by weakening the
Athenians he should get the tribute better paid, and should also
draw the Lacedaemonians into alliance with the King; and by this
means, as the King had commanded him, take alive or dead Amorges,
the bastard son of Pissuthnes, who was in rebellion on the coast of
Caria.

While the Chians and Tissaphernes thus joined to effect the same
object, about the same time Calligeitus, son of Laophon, a Megarian,
and Timagoras, son of Athenagoras, a Cyzicene, both of them exiles
from their country and living at the court of Pharnabazus, son of
Pharnaces, arrived at Lacedaemon upon a mission from Pharnabazus, to
procure a fleet for the Hellespont; by means of which, if possible, he
might himself effect the object of Tissaphernes' ambition and cause
the cities in his government to revolt from the Athenians, and so
get the tribute, and by his own agency obtain for the King the
alliance of the Lacedaemonians.

The emissaries of Pharnabazus and Tissaphernes treating apart, a
keen competition now ensued at Lacedaemon as to whether a fleet and
army should be sent first to Ionia and Chios, or to the Hellespont.
The Lacedaemonians, however, decidedly favoured the Chians and
Tissaphernes, who were seconded by Alcibiades, the family friend of
Endius, one of the ephors for that year.  Indeed, this is how their
house got its Laconic name, Alcibiades being the family name of
Endius.  Nevertheless the Lacedaemonians first sent to Chios Phrynis,
one of the Perioeci, to see whether they had as many ships as they
said, and whether their city generally was as great as was reported;
and upon his bringing word that they had been told the truth,
immediately entered into alliance with the Chians and Erythraeans, and
voted to send them forty ships, there being already, according to
the statement of the Chians, not less than sixty in the island.  At
first the Lacedaemonians meant to send ten of these forty
themselves, with Melanchridas their admiral; but afterwards, an
earthquake having occurred, they sent Chalcideus instead of
Melanchridas, and instead of the ten ships equipped only five in
Laconia.  And the winter ended, and with it ended also the nineteenth
year of this war of which Thucydides is the historian.

At the beginning of the next summer the Chians were urging that
the fleet should be sent off, being afraid that the Athenians, from
whom all these embassies were kept a secret, might find out what was
going on, and the Lacedaemonians at once sent three Spartans to
Corinth to haul the ships as quickly as possible across the Isthmus
from the other sea to that on the side of Athens, and to order them
all to sail to Chios, those which Agis was equipping for Lesbos not
excepted.  The number of ships from the allied states was thirty-nine
in all.

Meanwhile Calligeitus and Timagoras did not join on behalf of Pharnabazus
in the expedition to Chios or give the money--twenty-five talents--which
they had brought with them to help in dispatching a force, but
determined to sail afterwards with another force by themselves.
Agis, on the other hand, seeing the Lacedaemonians bent upon
going to Chios first, himself came in to their views; and
the allies assembled at Corinth and held a council, in which
they decided to sail first to Chios under the command of Chalcideus,
who was equipping the five vessels in Laconia, then to Lesbos,
under the command of Alcamenes, the same whom Agis had fixed
upon, and lastly to go to the Hellespont, where the command was
given to Clearchus, son of Ramphias.  Meanwhile they would take only
half the ships across the Isthmus first, and let those sail off at
once, in order that the Athenians might attend less to the departing
squadron than to those to be taken across afterwards, as no care had
been taken to keep this voyage secret through contempt of the
impotence of the Athenians, who had as yet no fleet of any account
upon the sea.  Agreeably to this determination, twenty-one vessels were
at once conveyed across the Isthmus.

They were now impatient to set sail, but the Corinthians were not
willing to accompany them until they had celebrated the Isthmian
festival, which fell at that time.  Upon this Agis proposed to them
to save their scruples about breaking the Isthmian truce by taking the
expedition upon himself.  The Corinthians not consenting to this, a
delay ensued, during which the Athenians conceived suspicions of
what was preparing at Chios, and sent Aristocrates, one of their
generals, and charged them with the fact, and, upon the denial of
the Chians, ordered them to send with them a contingent of ships, as
faithful confederates.  Seven were sent accordingly.  The reason of
the dispatch of the ships lay in the fact that the mass of the
Chians were not privy to the negotiations, while the few who were in
the secret did not wish to break with the multitude until they had
something positive to lean upon, and no longer expected the
Peloponnesians to arrive by reason of their delay.

In the meantime the Isthmian games took place, and the Athenians,
who had been also invited, went to attend them, and now seeing more
clearly into the designs of the Chians, as soon as they returned to
Athens took measures to prevent the fleet putting out from Cenchreae
without their knowledge.  After the festival the Peloponnesians set
sail with twenty-one ships for Chios, under the command of
Alcamenes.  The Athenians first sailed against them with an equal
number, drawing off towards the open sea.  The enemy, however,
turning back before he had followed them far, the Athenians returned
also, not trusting the seven Chian ships which formed part of their
number, and afterwards manned thirty-seven vessels in all and chased
him on his passage alongshore into Spiraeum, a desert Corinthian
port on the edge of the Epidaurian frontier.  After losing one ship out
at sea, the Peloponnesians got the rest together and brought them to
anchor.  The Athenians now attacked not only from the sea with their
fleet, but also disembarked upon the coast; and a melee ensued of
the most confused and violent kind, in which the Athenians disabled
most of the enemy's vessels and killed Alcamenes their commander,
losing also a few of their own men.

After this they separated, and the Athenians, detaching a sufficient
number of ships to blockade those of the enemy, anchored with the rest
at the islet adjacent, upon which they proceeded to encamp, and sent to
Athens for reinforcements; the Peloponnesians having been joined on
the day after the battle by the Corinthians, who came to help the
ships, and by the other inhabitants in the vicinity not long
afterwards.  These saw the difficulty of keeping guard in a desert
place, and in their perplexity at first thought of burning the
ships, but finally resolved to haul them up on shore and sit down
and guard them with their land forces until a convenient opportunity
for escaping should present itself.  Agis also, on being informed of
the disaster, sent them a Spartan of the name of Thermon.  The
Lacedaemonians first received the news of the fleet having put out
from the Isthmus, Alcamenes having been ordered by the ephors to
send off a horseman when this took place, and immediately resolved
to dispatch their own five vessels under Chalcideus, and Alcibiades
with him.  But while they were full of this resolution came the
second news of the fleet having taken refuge in Spiraeum; and
disheartened at their first step in the Ionian war proving a
failure, they laid aside the idea of sending the ships from their
own country, and even wished to recall some that had already sailed.

Perceiving this, Alcibiades again persuaded Endius and the other
ephors to persevere in the expedition, saying that the voyage would be
made before the Chians heard of the fleet's misfortune, and that as
soon as he set foot in Ionia, he should, by assuring them of the
weakness of the Athenians and the zeal of Lacedaemon, have no
difficulty in persuading the cities to revolt, as they would readily
believe his testimony.  He also represented to Endius himself in
private that it would be glorious for him to be the means of making
Ionia revolt and the King become the ally of Lacedaemon, instead of
that honour being left to Agis (Agis, it must be remembered, was the
enemy of Alcibiades); and Endius and his colleagues thus persuaded, he
put to sea with the five ships and the Lacedaemonian Chalcideus, and
made all haste upon the voyage.

About this time the sixteen Peloponnesian ships from Sicily, which
had served through the war with Gylippus, were caught on their
return off Leucadia and roughly handled by the twenty-seven Athenian
vessels under Hippocles, son of Menippus, on the lookout for the ships
from Sicily.  After losing one of their number, the rest escaped from
the Athenians and sailed into Corinth.

Meanwhile Chalcideus and Alcibiades seized all they met with on
their voyage, to prevent news of their coming, and let them go at
Corycus, the first point which they touched at in the continent.
Here they were visited by some of their Chian correspondents and,
being urged by them to sail up to the town without announcing their
coming, arrived suddenly before Chios.  The many were amazed and
confounded, while the few had so arranged that the council should be
sitting at the time; and after speeches from Chalcideus and Alcibiades
stating that many more ships were sailing up, but saying nothing of
the fleet being blockaded in Spiraeum, the Chians revolted from the
Athenians, and the Erythraeans immediately afterwards.  After this
three vessels sailed over to Clazomenae, and made that city revolt
also; and the Clazomenians immediately crossed over to the mainland
and began to fortify Polichna, in order to retreat there, in case of
necessity, from the island where they dwelt.

While the revolted places were all engaged in fortifying and
preparing for the war, news of Chios speedily reached Athens.  The
Athenians thought the danger by which they were now menaced great
and unmistakable, and that the rest of their allies would not
consent to keep quiet after the secession of the greatest of their
number.  In the consternation of the moment they at once took off the
penalty attaching to whoever proposed or put to the vote a proposal
for using the thousand talents which they had jealously avoided
touching throughout the whole war, and voted to employ them to man a
large number of ships, and to send off at once under Strombichides,
son of Diotimus, the eight vessels, forming part of the blockading
fleet at Spiraeum, which had left the blockade and had returned
after pursuing and failing to overtake the vessels with Chalcideus.
These were to be followed shortly afterwards by twelve more under
Thrasycles, also taken from the blockade.  They also recalled the seven
Chian vessels, forming part of their squadron blockading the fleet
in Spiraeum, and giving the slaves on board their liberty, put the
freemen in confinement, and speedily manned and sent out ten fresh
ships to blockade the Peloponnesians in the place of all those that
had departed, and decided to man thirty more.  Zeal was not wanting,
and no effort was spared to send relief to Chios.

In the meantime Strombichides with his eight ships arrived at Samos,
and, taking one Samian vessel, sailed to Teos and required them to
remain quiet.  Chalcideus also set sail with twenty-three ships for
Teos from Chios, the land forces of the Clazomenians and Erythraeans
moving alongshore to support him.  Informed of this in time,
Strombichides put out from Teos before their arrival, and while out at
sea, seeing the number of the ships from Chios, fled towards Samos,
chased by the enemy.  The Teians at first would not receive the land
forces, but upon the flight of the Athenians took them into the
town.  There they waited for some time for Chalcideus to return from
the pursuit, and as time went on without his appearing, began
themselves to demolish the wall which the Athenians had built on the
land side of the city of the Teians, being assisted by a few of the
barbarians who had come up under the command of Stages, the lieutenant
of Tissaphernes.

Meanwhile Chalcideus and Alcibiades, after chasing Strombichides
into Samos, armed the crews of the ships from Peloponnese and left
them at Chios, and filling their places with substitutes from Chios
and manning twenty others, sailed off to effect the revolt of Miletus.
The wish of Alcibiades, who had friends among the leading men of the
Milesians, was to bring over the town before the arrival of the
ships from Peloponnese, and thus, by causing the revolt of as many
cities as possible with the help of the Chian power and of Chalcideus,
to secure the honour for the Chians and himself and Chalcideus, and,
as he had promised, for Endius who had sent them out.  Not discovered
until their voyage was nearly completed, they arrived a little
before Strombichides and Thrasycles (who had just come with twelve
ships from Athens, and had joined Strombichides in pursuing them), and
occasioned the revolt of Miletus.  The Athenians sailing up close on
their heels with nineteen ships found Miletus closed against them, and
took up their station at the adjacent island of Lade.  The first
alliance between the King and the Lacedaemonians was now concluded
immediately upon the revolt of the Milesians, by Tissaphernes and
Chalcideus, and was as follows:

The Lacedaemonians and their allies made a treaty with the King
and Tissaphernes upon the terms following:

1.  Whatever country or cities the King has, or the King's
ancestors had, shall be the king's: and whatever came in to the
Athenians from these cities, either money or any other thing, the King
and the Lacedaemonians and their allies shall jointly hinder the
Athenians from receiving either money or any other thing.

2.  The war with the Athenians shall be carried on jointly by the
King and by the Lacedaemonians and their allies: and it shall not be
lawful to make peace with the Athenians except both agree, the King on
his side and the Lacedaemonians and their allies on theirs.

3.  If any revolt from the King, they shall be the enemies of the
Lacedaemonians and their allies.  And if any revolt from the
Lacedaemonians and their allies, they shall be the enemies of the King
in like manner.

This was the alliance.  After this the Chians immediately manned
ten more vessels and sailed for Anaia, in order to gain intelligence
of those in Miletus, and also to make the cities revolt.  A message,
however, reaching them from Chalcideus to tell them to go back
again, and that Amorges was at hand with an army by land, they
sailed to the temple of Zeus, and there sighting ten more ships
sailing up with which Diomedon had started from Athens after
Thrasycles, fled, one ship to Ephesus, the rest to Teos.  The Athenians
took four of their ships empty, the men finding time to escape ashore;
the rest took refuge in the city of the Teians; after which the
Athenians sailed off to Samos, while the Chians put to sea with
their remaining vessels, accompanied by the land forces, and caused
Lebedos to revolt, and after it Erae.  After this they both returned
home, the fleet and the army.

About the same time the twenty ships of the Peloponnesians in
Spiraeum, which we left chased to land and blockaded by an equal
number of Athenians, suddenly sallied out and defeated the
blockading squadron, took four of their ships, and, sailing back to
Cenchreae, prepared again for the voyage to Chios and Ionia.  Here they
were joined by Astyochus as high admiral from Lacedaemon, henceforth
invested with the supreme command at sea.  The land forces now
withdrawing from Teos, Tissaphernes repaired thither in person with an
army and completed the demolition of anything that was left of the
wall, and so departed.  Not long after his departure Diomedon arrived
with ten Athenian ships, and, having made a convention by which the
Teians admitted him as they had the enemy, coasted along to Erae, and,
failing in an attempt upon the town, sailed back again.

About this time took place the rising of the commons at Samos
against the upper classes, in concert with some Athenians, who were
there in three vessels.  The Samian commons put to death some two
hundred in all of the upper classes, and banished four hundred more,
and themselves took their land and houses; after which the Athenians
decreed their independence, being now sure of their fidelity, and
the commons henceforth governed the city, excluding the landholders
from all share in affairs, and forbidding any of the commons to give
his daughter in marriage to them or to take a wife from them in
future.

After this, during the same summer, the Chians, whose zeal continued
as active as ever, and who even without the Peloponnesians found
themselves in sufficient force to effect the revolt of the cities
and also wished to have as many companions in peril as possible,
made an expedition with thirteen ships of their own to Lesbos; the
instructions from Lacedaemon being to go to that island next, and from
thence to the Hellespont.  Meanwhile the land forces of the
Peloponnesians who were with the Chians and of the allies on the spot,
moved alongshore for Clazomenae and Cuma, under the command of Eualas,
a Spartan; while the fleet under Diniadas, one of the Perioeci,
first sailed up to Methymna and caused it to revolt, and, leaving four
ships there, with the rest procured the revolt of Mitylene.

In the meantime Astyochus, the Lacedaemonian admiral, set sail
from Cenchreae with four ships, as he had intended, and arrived at
Chios.  On the third day after his arrival, the Athenian ships,
twenty-five in number, sailed to Lesbos under Diomedon and Leon, who
had lately arrived with a reinforcement of ten ships from Athens.  Late
in the same day Astyochus put to sea, and taking one Chian vessel with
him sailed to Lesbos to render what assistance he could.  Arrived at
Pyrrha, and from thence the next day at Eresus, he there learned
that Mitylene had been taken, almost without a blow, by the Athenians,
who had sailed up and unexpectedly put into the harbour, had beaten
the Chian ships, and landing and defeating the troops opposed to
them had become masters of the city.  Informed of this by the
Eresians and the Chian ships, which had been left with Eubulus at
Methymna, and had fled upon the capture of Mitylene, and three of
which he now fell in with, one having been taken by the Athenians,
Astyochus did not go on to Mitylene, but raised and armed Eresus, and,
sending the heavy infantry from his own ships by land under
Eteonicus to Antissa and Methymna, himself proceeded alongshore
thither with the ships which he had with him and with the three
Chians, in the hope that the Methymnians upon seeing them would be
encouraged to persevere in their revolt.  As, however, everything
went against him in Lesbos, he took up his own force and sailed back
to Chios; the land forces on board, which were to have gone to the
Hellespont, being also conveyed back to their different cities.
After this six of the allied Peloponnesian ships at Cenchreae joined
the forces at Chios.  The Athenians, after restoring matters to their
old state in Lesbos, set sail from thence and took Polichna, the place
that the Clazomenians were fortifying on the continent, and carried
the inhabitants back to their town upon the island, except the authors
of the revolt, who withdrew to Daphnus; and thus Clazomenae became
once more Athenian.

The same summer the Athenians in the twenty ships at Lade,
blockading Miletus, made a descent at Panormus in the Milesian
territory, and killed Chalcideus the Lacedaemonian commander, who
had come with a few men against them, and the third day after sailed
over and set up a trophy, which, as they were not masters of the
country, was however pulled down by the Milesians.  Meanwhile Leon
and Diomedon with the Athenian fleet from Lesbos issuing from the
Oenussae, the isles off Chios, and from their forts of Sidussa and
Pteleum in the Erythraeid, and from Lesbos, carried on the war against
the Chians from the ships, having on board heavy infantry from the
rolls pressed to serve as marines.  Landing in Cardamyle and in
Bolissus they defeated with heavy loss the Chians that took the
field against them and, laying desolate the places in that
neighbourhood, defeated the Chians again in another battle at
Phanae, and in a third at Leuconium.  After this the Chians ceased to
meet them in the field, while the Athenians devastated the country,
which was beautifully stocked and had remained uninjured ever since
the Median wars.  Indeed, after the Lacedaemonians, the Chians are
the only people that I have known who knew how to be wise in
prosperity, and who ordered their city the more securely the greater
it grew.  Nor was this revolt, in which they might seem to have erred
on the side of rashness, ventured upon until they had numerous and
gallant allies to share the danger with them, and until they perceived
the Athenians after the Sicilian disaster themselves no longer denying
the thoroughly desperate state of their affairs.  And if they were
thrown out by one of the surprises which upset human calculations,
they found out their mistake in company with many others who believed,
like them, in the speedy collapse of the Athenian power.  While they
were thus blockaded from the sea and plundered by land, some of the
citizens undertook to bring the city over to the Athenians.  Apprised
of this the authorities took no action themselves, but brought
Astyochus, the admiral, from Erythrae, with four ships that he had
with him, and considered how they could most quietly, either by taking
hostages or by some other means, put an end to the conspiracy.

While the Chians were thus engaged, a thousand Athenian heavy
infantry and fifteen hundred Argives (five hundred of whom were
light troops furnished with armour by the Athenians), and one thousand
of the allies, towards the close of the same summer sailed from Athens
in forty-eight ships, some of which were transports, under the command
of Phrynichus, Onomacles, and Scironides, and putting into Samos
crossed over and encamped at Miletus.  Upon this the Milesians came out
to the number of eight hundred heavy infantry, with the Peloponnesians
who had come with Chalcideus, and some foreign mercenaries of
Tissaphernes, Tissaphernes himself and his cavalry, and engaged the
Athenians and their allies.  While the Argives rushed forward on
their own wing with the careless disdain of men advancing against
Ionians who would never stand their charge, and were defeated by the
Milesians with a loss little short of three hundred men, the Athenians
first defeated the Peloponnesians, and driving before them the
barbarians and the ruck of the army, without engaging the Milesians,
who after the rout of the Argives retreated into the town upon
seeing their comrades worsted, crowned their victory by grounding
their arms under the very walls of Miletus.  Thus, in this battle,
the Ionians on both sides overcame the Dorians, the Athenians
defeating the Peloponnesians opposed to them, and the Milesians the
Argives.  After setting up a trophy, the Athenians prepared to draw a
wall round the place, which stood upon an isthmus; thinking that, if
they could gain Miletus, the other towns also would easily come over
to them.

Meanwhile about dusk tidings reached them that the fifty-five
ships from Peloponnese and Sicily might be instantly expected.  Of
these the Siceliots, urged principally by the Syracusan Hermocrates to
join in giving the finishing blow to the power of Athens, furnished
twenty-two--twenty from Syracuse, and two from Silenus; and the
ships that we left preparing in Peloponnese being now ready, both
squadrons had been entrusted to Therimenes, a Lacedaemonian, to take
to Astyochus, the admiral.  They now put in first at Leros the island
off Miletus, and from thence, discovering that the Athenians were
before the town, sailed into the Iasic Gulf, in order to learn how
matters stood at Miletus.  Meanwhile Alcibiades came on horseback to
Teichiussa in the Milesian territory, the point of the gulf at which
they had put in for the night, and told them of the battle in which he
had fought in person by the side of the Milesians and Tissaphernes,
and advised them, if they did not wish to sacrifice Ionia and their
cause, to fly to the relief of Miletus and hinder its investment.

Accordingly they resolved to relieve it the next morning.
Meanwhile Phrynichus, the Athenian commander, had received precise
intelligence of the fleet from Leros, and when his colleagues
expressed a wish to keep the sea and fight it out, flatly refused
either to stay himself or to let them or any one else do so if he
could help it.  Where they could hereafter contend, after full and
undisturbed preparation, with an exact knowledge of the number of
the enemy's fleet and of the force which they could oppose to him,
he would never allow the reproach of disgrace to drive him into a risk
that was unreasonable.  It was no disgrace for an Athenian fleet to
retreat when it suited them: put it as they would, it would be more
disgraceful to be beaten, and to expose the city not only to disgrace,
but to the most serious danger.  After its late misfortunes it could
hardly be justified in voluntarily taking the offensive even with
the strongest force, except in a case of absolute necessity: much less
then without compulsion could it rush upon peril of its own seeking.
He told them to take up their wounded as quickly as they could and the
troops and stores which they had brought with them, and leaving behind
what they had taken from the enemy's country, in order to lighten
the ships, to sail off to Samos, and there concentrating all their
ships to attack as opportunity served.  As he spoke so he acted; and
thus not now more than afterwards, nor in this alone but in all that
he had to do with, did Phrynichus show himself a man of sense.  In this
way that very evening the Athenians broke up from before Miletus,
leaving their victory unfinished, and the Argives, mortified at
their disaster, promptly sailed off home from Samos.

As soon as it was morning the Peloponnesians weighed from Teichiussa
and put into Miletus after the departure of the Athenians; they stayed
one day, and on the next took with them the Chian vessels originally
chased into port with Chalcideus, and resolved to sail back for the
tackle which they had put on shore at Teichiussa.  Upon their arrival
Tissaphernes came to them with his land forces and induced them to
sail to Iasus, which was held by his enemy Amorges.  Accordingly they
suddenly attacked and took Iasus, whose inhabitants never imagined
that the ships could be other than Athenian.  The Syracusans
distinguished themselves most in the action.  Amorges, a bastard of
Pissuthnes and a rebel from the King, was taken alive and handed
over to Tissaphernes, to carry to the King, if he chose, according
to his orders: Iasus was sacked by the army, who found a very great
booty there, the place being wealthy from ancient date.  The
mercenaries serving with Amorges the Peloponnesians received and
enrolled in their army without doing them any harm, since most of them
came from Peloponnese, and handed over the town to Tissaphernes with
all the captives, bond or free, at the stipulated price of one Doric
stater a head; after which they returned to Miletus.  Pedaritus, son of
Leon, who had been sent by the Lacedaemonians to take the command at
Chios, they dispatched by land as far as Erythrae with the mercenaries
taken from Amorges; appointing Philip to remain as governor of
Miletus.

Summer was now over.  The winter following, Tissaphernes put Iasus in
a state of defence, and passing on to Miletus distributed a month's
pay to all the ships as he had promised at Lacedaemon, at the rate
of an Attic drachma a day for each man.  In future, however, he was
resolved not to give more than three obols, until he had consulted the
King; when if the King should so order he would give, he said, the
full drachma.  However, upon the protest of the Syracusan general
Hermocrates (for as Therimenes was not admiral, but only accompanied
them in order to hand over the ships to Astyochus, he made little
difficulty about the pay), it was agreed that the amount of five
ships' pay should be given over and above the three obols a day for
each man; Tissaphernes paying thirty talents a month for fifty-five
ships, and to the rest, for as many ships as they had beyond that
number, at the same rate.

The same winter the Athenians in Samos, having been joined by
thirty-five more vessels from home under Charminus, Strombichides, and
Euctemon, called in their squadron at Chios and all the rest,
intending to blockade Miletus with their navy, and to send a fleet and
an army against Chios; drawing lots for the respective services.
This intention they carried into effect; Strombichides, Onamacles, and
Euctemon sailing against Chios, which fell to their lot, with thirty
ships and a part of the thousand heavy infantry, who had been to
Miletus, in transports; while the rest remained masters of the sea
with seventy-four ships at Samos, and advanced upon Miletus.

Meanwhile Astyochus, whom we left at Chios collecting the hostages
required in consequence of the conspiracy, stopped upon learning
that the fleet with Therimenes had arrived, and that the affairs of
the league were in a more flourishing condition, and putting out to
sea with ten Peloponnesian and as many Chian vessels, after a futile
attack upon Pteleum, coasted on to Clazomenae, and ordered the
Athenian party to remove inland to Daphnus, and to join the
Peloponnesians, an order in which also joined Tamos the king's
lieutenant in Ionia.  This order being disregarded, Astyochus made an
attack upon the town, which was unwalled, and having failed to take it
was himself carried off by a strong gale to Phocaea and Cuma, while
the rest of the ships put in at the islands adjacent to
Clazomenae--Marathussa, Pele, and Drymussa.  Here they were detained
eight days by the winds, and, plundering and consuming all the
property of the Clazomenians there deposited, put the rest on
shipboard and sailed off to Phocaea and Cuma to join Astyochus.

While he was there, envoys arrived from the Lesbians who wished to
revolt again.  With Astyochus they were successful; but the Corinthians
and the other allies being averse to it by reason of their former
failure, he weighed anchor and set sail for Chios, where they
eventually arrived from different quarters, the fleet having been
scattered by a storm.  After this Pedaritus, whom we left marching
along the coast from Miletus, arrived at Erythrae, and thence
crossed over with his army to Chios, where he found also about five
hundred soldiers who had been left there by Chalcideus from the five
ships with their arms.  Meanwhile some Lesbians making offers to
revolt, Astyochus urged upon Pedaritus and the Chians that they
ought to go with their ships and effect the revolt of Lesbos, and so
increase the number of their allies, or, if not successful, at all
events harm the Athenians.  The Chians, however, turned a deaf ear to
this, and Pedaritus flatly refused to give up to him the Chian
vessels.

Upon this Astyochus took five Corinthian and one Megarian vessel,
with another from Hermione, and the ships which had come with him from
Laconia, and set sail for Miletus to assume his command as admiral;
after telling the Chians with many threats that he would certainly not
come and help them if they should be in need.  At Corycus in the
Erythraeid he brought to for the night; the Athenian armament
sailing from Samos against Chios being only separated from him by a
hill, upon the other side of which it brought to; so that neither
perceived the other.  But a letter arriving in the night from Pedaritus
to say that some liberated Erythraean prisoners had come from Samos to
betray Erythrae, Astyochus at once put back to Erythrae, and so just
escaped falling in with the Athenians.  Here Pedaritus sailed over to
join him; and after inquiry into the pretended treachery, finding that
the whole story had been made up to procure the escape of the men from
Samos, they acquitted them of the charge, and sailed away, Pedaritus
to Chios and Astyochus to Miletus as he had intended.

Meanwhile the Athenian armament sailing round Corycus fell in with
three Chian men-of-war off Arginus, and gave immediate chase.  A
great storm coming on, the Chians with difficulty took refuge in the
harbour; the three Athenian vessels most forward in the pursuit
being wrecked and thrown up near the city of Chios, and the crews
slain or taken prisoners.  The rest of the Athenian fleet took refuge
in the harbour called Phoenicus, under Mount Mimas, and from thence
afterwards put into Lesbos and prepared for the work of fortification.

The same winter the Lacedaemonian Hippocrates sailed out from
Peloponnese with ten Thurian ships under the command of Dorieus, son
of Diagoras, and two colleagues, one Laconian and one Syracusan
vessel, and arrived at Cnidus, which had already revolted at the
instigation of Tissaphernes.  When their arrival was known at
Miletus, orders came to them to leave half their squadron to guard
Cnidus, and with the rest to cruise round Triopium and seize all the
merchantmen arriving from Egypt.  Triopium is a promontory of Cnidus
and sacred to Apollo.  This coming to the knowledge of the Athenians,
they sailed from Samos and captured the six ships on the watch at
Triopium, the crews escaping out of them.  After this the Athenians
sailed into Cnidus and made an assault upon the town, which was
unfortified, and all but took it; and the next day assaulted it again,
but with less effect, as the inhabitants had improved their defences
during the night, and had been reinforced by the crews escaped from
the ships at Triopium.  The Athenians now withdrew, and after
plundering the Cnidian territory sailed back to Samos.

About the same time Astyochus came to the fleet at Miletus.  The
Peloponnesian camp was still plentifully supplied, being in receipt of
sufficient pay, and the soldiers having still in hand the large
booty taken at Iasus.  The Milesians also showed great ardour for the
war.  Nevertheless the Peloponnesians thought the first convention with
Tissaphernes, made with Chalcideus, defective, and more advantageous
to him than to them, and consequently while Therimenes was still there
concluded another, which was as follows:

The convention of the Lacedaemonians and the allies with King
Darius and the sons of the King, and with Tissaphernes for a treaty
and friendship, as follows:

1.  Neither the Lacedaemonians nor the allies of the Lacedaemonians
shall make war against or otherwise injure any country or cities
that belong to King Darius or did belong to his father or to his
ancestors; neither shall the Lacedaemonians nor the allies of the
Lacedaemonians exact tribute from such cities.  Neither shall King
Darius nor any of the subjects of the King make war against or
otherwise injure the Lacedaemonians or their allies.

2.  If the Lacedaemonians or their allies should require any
assistance from the King, or the King from the Lacedaemonians or their
allies, whatever they both agree upon they shall be right in doing.

3.  Both shall carry on jointly the war against the Athenians and
their allies: and if they make peace, both shall do so jointly.

4.  The expense of all troops in the King's country, sent for by
the King, shall be borne by the King.

5.  If any of the states comprised in this convention with the King
attack the King's country, the rest shall stop them and aid the King
to the best of their power.  And if any in the King's country or in the
countries under the King's rule attack the country of the
Lacedaemonians or their allies, the King shall stop it and help them
to the best of his power.

After this convention Therimenes handed over the fleet to Astyochus,
sailed off in a small boat, and was lost.  The Athenian armament had
now crossed over from Lesbos to Chios, and being master by sea and
land began to fortify Delphinium, a place naturally strong on the land
side, provided with more than one harbour, and also not far from the
city of Chios.  Meanwhile the Chians remained inactive.  Already
defeated in so many battles, they were now also at discord among
themselves; the execution of the party of Tydeus, son of Ion, by
Pedaritus upon the charge of Atticism, followed by the forcible
imposition of an oligarchy upon the rest of the city, having made them
suspicious of one another; and they therefore thought neither
themselves not the mercenaries under Pedaritus a match for the
enemy.  They sent, however, to Miletus to beg Astyochus to assist them,
which he refused to do, and was accordingly denounced at Lacedaemon by
Pedaritus as a traitor.  Such was the state of the Athenian affairs
at Chios; while their fleet at Samos kept sailing out against the
enemy in Miletus, until they found that he would not accept their
challenge, and then retired again to Samos and remained quiet.

In the same winter the twenty-seven ships equipped by the
Lacedaemonians for Pharnabazus through the agency of the Megarian
Calligeitus, and the Cyzicene Timagoras, put out from Peloponnese
and sailed for Ionia about the time of the solstice, under the command
of Antisthenes, a Spartan.  With them the Lacedaemonians also sent
eleven Spartans as advisers to Astyochus; Lichas, son of Arcesilaus,
being among the number.  Arrived at Miletus, their orders were to aid
in generally superintending the good conduct of the war; to send off
the above ships or a greater or less number to the Hellespont to
Pharnabazus, if they thought proper, appointing Clearchus, son of
Ramphias, who sailed with them, to the command; and further, if they
thought proper, to make Antisthenes admiral, dismissing Astyochus,
whom the letters of Pedaritus had caused to be regarded with
suspicion.  Sailing accordingly from Malea across the open sea, the
squadron touched at Melos and there fell in with ten Athenian ships,
three of which they took empty and burned.  After this, being afraid
that the Athenian vessels escaped from Melos might, as they in fact
did, give information of their approach to the Athenians at Samos,
they sailed to Crete, and having lengthened their voyage by way of
precaution made land at Caunus in Asia, from whence considering
themselves in safety they sent a message to the fleet at Miletus for a
convoy along the coast.

Meanwhile the Chians and Pedaritus, undeterred by the backwardness
of Astyochus, went on sending messengers pressing him to come with all
the fleet to assist them against their besiegers, and not to leave the
greatest of the allied states in Ionia to be shut up by sea and
overrun and pillaged by land.  There were more slaves at Chios than
in any one other city except Lacedaemon, and being also by reason of
their numbers punished more rigorously when they offended, most of
them, when they saw the Athenian armament firmly established in the
island with a fortified position, immediately deserted to the enemy,
and through their knowledge of the country did the greatest
mischief.  The Chians therefore urged upon Astyochus that it was his
duty to assist them, while there was still a hope and a possibility of
stopping the enemy's progress, while Delphinium was still in process
of fortification and unfinished, and before the completion of a higher
rampart which was being added to protect the camp and fleet of their
besiegers.  Astyochus now saw that the allies also wished it and
prepared to go, in spite of his intention to the contrary owing to the
threat already referred to.

In the meantime news came from Caunus of the arrival of the
twenty-seven ships with the Lacedaemonian commissioners; and
Astyochus, postponing everything to the duty of convoying a fleet of
that importance, in order to be more able to command the sea, and to
the safe conduct of the Lacedaemonians sent as spies over his
behaviour, at once gave up going to Chios and set sail for Caunus.
As he coasted along he landed at the Meropid Cos and sacked the
city, which was unfortified and had been lately laid in ruins by an
earthquake, by far the greatest in living memory, and, as the
inhabitants had fled to the mountains, overran the country and made
booty of all it contained, letting go, however, the free men.  From Cos
arriving in the night at Cnidus he was constrained by the
representations of the Cnidians not to disembark the sailors, but to
sail as he was straight against the twenty Athenian vessels, which
with Charminus, one of the commanders at Samos, were on the watch
for the very twenty-seven ships from Peloponnese which Astyochus was
himself sailing to join; the Athenians in Samos having heard from
Melos of their approach, and Charminus being on the look-out off Syme,
Chalce, Rhodes, and Lycia, as he now heard that they were at Caunus.

Astyochus accordingly sailed as he was to Syme, before he was
heard of, in the hope of catching the enemy somewhere out at sea.
Rain, however, and foggy weather encountered him, and caused his ships
to straggle and get into disorder in the dark.  In the morning his
fleet had parted company and was most of it still straggling round the
island, and the left wing only in sight of Charminus and the
Athenians, who took it for the squadron which they were watching for
from Caunus, and hastily put out against it with part only of their
twenty vessels, and attacking immediately sank three ships and
disabled others, and had the advantage in the action until the main
body of the fleet unexpectedly hove in sight, when they were
surrounded on every side.  Upon this they took to flight, and after
losing six ships with the rest escaped to Teutlussa or Beet Island,
and from thence to Halicarnassus.  After this the Peloponnesians put
into Cnidus and, being joined by the twenty-seven ships from Caunus,
sailed all together and set up a trophy in Syme, and then returned
to anchor at Cnidus.

As soon as the Athenians knew of the sea-fight, they sailed with all
the ships at Samos to Syme, and, without attacking or being attacked
by the fleet at Cnidus, took the ships' tackle left at Syme, and
touching at Lorymi on the mainland sailed back to Samos.  Meanwhile the
Peloponnesian ships, being now all at Cnidus, underwent such repairs
as were needed; while the eleven Lacedaemonian commissioners conferred
with Tissaphernes, who had come to meet them, upon the points which
did not satisfy them in the past transactions, and upon the best and
mutually most advantageous manner of conducting the war in future.  The
severest critic of the present proceedings was Lichas, who said that
neither of the treaties could stand, neither that of Chalcideus, nor
that of Therimenes; it being monstrous that the King should at this
date pretend to the possession of all the country formerly ruled by
himself or by his ancestors--a pretension which implicitly put back
under the yoke all the islands--Thessaly, Locris, and everything as
far as Boeotia--and made the Lacedaemonians give to the Hellenes
instead of liberty a Median master.  He therefore invited Tissaphernes
to conclude another and a better treaty, as they certainly would not
recognize those existing and did not want any of his pay upon such
conditions.  This offended Tissaphernes so much that he went away in
a rage without settling anything.




CHAPTER XXV

_Twentieth and Twenty-first Years of the War - Intrigues of
Alcibiades - Withdrawal of the Persian Subsidies - Oligarchical
Coup d'Etat at Athens - Patriotism of the Army at Samos_

The Peloponnesians now determined to sail to Rhodes, upon the
invitation of some of the principal men there, hoping to gain an
island powerful by the number of its seamen and by its land forces,
and also thinking that they would be able to maintain their fleet from
their own confederacy, without having to ask for money from
Tissaphernes.  They accordingly at once set sail that same winter
from Cnidus, and first put in with ninety-four ships at Camirus in the
Rhodian country, to the great alarm of the mass of the inhabitants,
who were not privy to the intrigue, and who consequently fled,
especially as the town was unfortified.  They were afterwards, however,
assembled by the Lacedaemonians together with the inhabitants of the
two other towns of Lindus and Ialysus; and the Rhodians were persuaded
to revolt from the Athenians and the island went over to the
Peloponnesians.  Meanwhile the Athenians had received the alarm and set
sail with the fleet from Samos to forestall them, and came within
sight of the island, but being a little too late sailed off for the
moment to Chalce, and from thence to Samos, and subsequently waged war
against Rhodes, issuing from Chalce, Cos, and Samos.

The Peloponnesians now levied a contribution of thirty-two talents
from the Rhodians, after which they hauled their ships ashore and
for eighty days remained inactive.  During this time, and even earlier,
before they removed to Rhodes, the following intrigues took place.
After the death of Chalcideus and the battle at Miletus, Alcibiades
began to be suspected by the Peloponnesians; and Astyochus received
from Lacedaemon an order from them to put him to death, he being the
personal enemy of Agis, and in other respects thought unworthy of
confidence.  Alcibiades in his alarm first withdrew to Tissaphernes,
and immediately began to do all he could with him to injure the
Peloponnesian cause.  Henceforth becoming his adviser in everything, he
cut down the pay from an Attic drachma to three obols a day, and
even this not paid too regularly; and told Tissaphernes to say to
the Peloponnesians that the Athenians, whose maritime experience was
of an older date than their own, only gave their men three obols,
not so much from poverty as to prevent their seamen being corrupted by
being too well off, and injuring their condition by spending money
upon enervating indulgences, and also paid their crews irregularly
in order to have a security against their deserting in the arrears
which they would leave behind them.  He also told Tissaphernes to bribe
the captains and generals of the cities, and so to obtain their
connivance--an expedient which succeeded with all except the
Syracusans, Hermocrates alone opposing him on behalf of the whole
confederacy.  Meanwhile the cities asking for money Alcibiades sent
off, by roundly telling them in the name of Tissaphernes that it was
great impudence in the Chians, the richest people in Hellas, not
content with being defended by a foreign force, to expect others to
risk not only their lives but their money as well in behalf of their
freedom; while the other cities, he said, had had to pay largely to
Athens before their rebellion, and could not justly refuse to
contribute as much or even more now for their own selves.  He also
pointed out that Tissaphernes was at present carrying on the war at
his own charges, and had good cause for economy, but that as soon as
he received remittances from the king he would give them their pay
in full and do what was reasonable for the cities.

Alcibiades further advised Tissaphernes not to be in too great a
hurry to end the war, or to let himself be persuaded to bring up the
Phoenician fleet which he was equipping, or to provide pay for more
Hellenes, and thus put the power by land and sea into the same
hands; but to leave each of the contending parties in possession of
one element, thus enabling the king when he found one troublesome to
call in the other.  For if the command of the sea and land were
united in one hand, he would not know where to turn for help to
overthrow the dominant power; unless he at last chose to stand up
himself, and go through with the struggle at great expense and hazard.
The cheapest plan was to let the Hellenes wear each other out, at a
small share of the expense and without risk to himself.  Besides, he
would find the Athenians the most convenient partners in empire as
they did not aim at conquests on shore, and carried on the war upon
principles and with a practice most advantageous to the King; being
prepared to combine to conquer the sea for Athens, and for the King
all the Hellenes inhabiting his country, whom the Peloponnesians, on
the contrary, had come to liberate.  Now it was not likely that the
Lacedaemonians would free the Hellenes from the Hellenic Athenians,
without freeing them also from the barbarian Mede, unless overthrown
by him in the meanwhile.  Alcibiades therefore urged him to wear them
both out at first, and, after docking the Athenian power as much as he
could, forthwith to rid the country of the Peloponnesians.  In the main
Tissaphernes approved of this policy, so far at least as could be
conjectured from his behaviour; since he now gave his confidence to
Alcibiades in recognition of his good advice, and kept the
Peloponnesians short of money, and would not let them fight at sea,
but ruined their cause by pretending that the Phoenician fleet would
arrive, and that they would thus be enabled to contend with the odds
in their favour, and so made their navy lose its efficiency, which had
been very remarkable, and generally betrayed a coolness in the war
that was too plain to be mistaken.

Alcibiades gave this advice to Tissaphernes and the King, with
whom he then was, not merely because he thought it really the best,
but because he was studying means to effect his restoration to his
country, well knowing that if he did not destroy it he might one day
hope to persuade the Athenians to recall him, and thinking that his
best chance of persuading them lay in letting them see that he
possessed the favour of Tissaphernes.  The event proved him to be
right.  When the Athenians at Samos found that he had influence with
Tissaphernes, principally of their own motion (though partly also
through Alcibiades himself sending word to their chief men to tell the
best men in the army that, if there were only an oligarchy in the
place of the rascally democracy that had banished him, he would be
glad to return to his country and to make Tissaphernes their
friend), the captains and chief men in the armament at once embraced
the idea of subverting the democracy.

The design was first mooted in the camp, and afterwards from
thence reached the city.  Some persons crossed over from Samos and
had an interview with Alcibiades, who immediately offered to make
first Tissaphernes, and afterwards the King, their friend, if they
would give up the democracy and make it possible for the King to trust
them.  The higher class, who also suffered most severely from the
war, now conceived great hopes of getting the government into their
own hands, and of triumphing over the enemy.  Upon their return to
Samos the emissaries formed their partisans into a club, and openly
told the mass of the armament that the King would be their friend, and
would provide them with money, if Alcibiades were restored and the
democracy abolished.  The multitude, if at first irritated by these
intrigues, were nevertheless kept quiet by the advantageous prospect
of the pay from the King; and the oligarchical conspirators, after
making this communication to the people, now re-examined the proposals
of Alcibiades among themselves, with most of their associates.
Unlike the rest, who thought them advantageous and trustworthy,
Phrynichus, who was still general, by no means approved of the
proposals.  Alcibiades, he rightly thought, cared no more for an
oligarchy than for a democracy, and only sought to change the
institutions of his country in order to get himself recalled by his
associates; while for themselves their one object should be to avoid
civil discord.  It was not the King's interest, when the Peloponnesians
were now their equals at sea, and in possession of some of the chief
cities in his empire, to go out of his way to side with the
Athenians whom he did not trust, when he might make friends of the
Peloponnesians who had never injured him.  And as for the allied states
to whom oligarchy was now offered, because the democracy was to be put
down at Athens, he well knew that this would not make the rebels
come in any the sooner, or confirm the loyal in their allegiance; as
the allies would never prefer servitude with an oligarchy or democracy
to freedom with the constitution which they actually enjoyed, to
whichever type it belonged.  Besides, the cities thought that the
so-called better classes would prove just as oppressive as the
commons, as being those who originated, proposed, and for the most
part benefited from the acts of the commons injurious to the
confederates.  Indeed, if it depended on the better classes, the
confederates would be put to death without trial and with violence;
while the commons were their refuge and the chastiser of these men.
This he positively knew that the cities had learned by experience, and
that such was their opinion.  The propositions of Alcibiades, and the
intrigues now in progress, could therefore never meet with his
approval.

However, the members of the club assembled, agreeably to their
original determination, accepted what was proposed, and prepared to
send Pisander and others on an embassy to Athens to treat for the
restoration of Alcibiades and the abolition of the democracy in the
city, and thus to make Tissaphernes the friend of the Athenians.

Phrynichus now saw that there would be a proposal to restore
Alcibiades, and that the Athenians would consent to it; and fearing
after what he had said against it that Alcibiades, if restored,
would revenge himself upon him for his opposition, had recourse to the
following expedient.  He sent a secret letter to the Lacedaemonian
admiral Astyochus, who was still in the neighbourhood of Miletus, to
tell him that Alcibiades was ruining their cause by making
Tissaphernes the friend of the Athenians, and containing an express
revelation of the rest of the intrigue, desiring to be excused if he
sought to harm his enemy even at the expense of the interests of his
country.  However, Astyochus, instead of thinking of punishing
Alcibiades, who, besides, no longer ventured within his reach as
formerly, went up to him and Tissaphernes at Magnesia, communicated to
them the letter from Samos, and turned informer, and, if report may be
trusted, became the paid creature of Tissaphernes, undertaking to
inform him as to this and all other matters; which was also the reason
why he did not remonstrate more strongly against the pay not being
given in full.  Upon this Alcibiades instantly sent to the
authorities at Samos a letter against Phrynichus, stating what he
had done, and requiring that he should be put to death.  Phrynichus
distracted, and placed in the utmost peril by the denunciation, sent
again to Astyochus, reproaching him with having so ill kept the secret
of his previous letter, and saying that he was now prepared to give
them an opportunity of destroying the whole Athenian armament at
Samos; giving a detailed account of the means which he should
employ, Samos being unfortified, and pleading that, being in danger of
his life on their account, he could not now be blamed for doing this
or anything else to escape being destroyed by his mortal enemies.  This
also Astyochus revealed to Alcibiades.

Meanwhile Phrynichus having had timely notice that he was playing
him false, and that a letter on the subject was on the point of
arriving from Alcibiades, himself anticipated the news, and told the
army that the enemy, seeing that Samos was unfortified and the fleet
not all stationed within the harbour, meant to attack the camp, that
he could be certain of this intelligence, and that they must fortify
Samos as quickly as possible, and generally look to their defences.  It
will be remembered that he was general, and had himself authority to
carry out these measures.  Accordingly they addressed themselves to the
work of fortification, and Samos was thus fortified sooner than it
would otherwise have been.  Not long afterwards came the letter from
Alcibiades, saying that the army was betrayed by Phrynichus, and the
enemy about to attack it.  Alcibiades, however, gained no credit, it
being thought that he was in the secret of the enemy's designs, and
had tried to fasten them upon Phrynichus, and to make out that he
was their accomplice, out of hatred; and consequently far from hurting
him he rather bore witness to what he had said by this intelligence.

After this Alcibiades set to work to persuade Tissaphernes to become
the friend of the Athenians.  Tissaphernes, although afraid of the
Peloponnesians because they had more ships in Asia than the Athenians,
was yet disposed to be persuaded if he could, especially after his
quarrel with the Peloponnesians at Cnidus about the treaty of
Therimenes.  The quarrel had already taken place, as the Peloponnesians
were by this time actually at Rhodes; and in it the original
argument of Alcibiades touching the liberation of all the towns by the
Lacedaemonians had been verified by the declaration of Lichas that
it was impossible to submit to a convention which made the King master
of all the states at any former time ruled by himself or by his
fathers.

While Alcibiades was besieging the favour of Tissaphernes with an
earnestness proportioned to the greatness of the issue, the Athenian
envoys who had been dispatched from Samos with Pisander arrived at
Athens, and made a speech before the people, giving a brief summary of
their views, and particularly insisting that, if Alcibiades were
recalled and the democratic constitution changed, they could have
the King as their ally, and would be able to overcome the
Peloponnesians.  A number of speakers opposed them on the question of
the democracy, the enemies of Alcibiades cried out against the scandal
of a restoration to be effected by a violation of the constitution,
and the Eumolpidae and Ceryces protested in behalf of the mysteries,
the cause of his banishment, and called upon the gods to avert his
recall; when Pisander, in the midst of much opposition and abuse, came
forward, and taking each of his opponents aside asked him the
following question: In the face of the fact that the Peloponnesians
had as many ships as their own confronting them at sea, more cities in
alliance with them, and the King and Tissaphernes to supply them
with money, of which the Athenians had none left, had he any hope of
saving the state, unless someone could induce the King to come over to
their side? Upon their replying that they had not, he then plainly
said to them: "This we cannot have unless we have a more moderate form
of government, and put the offices into fewer hands, and so gain the
King's confidence, and forthwith restore Alcibiades, who is the only
man living that can bring this about.  The safety of the state, not the
form of its government, is for the moment the most pressing
question, as we can always change afterwards whatever we do not like."

The people were at first highly irritated at the mention of an
oligarchy, but upon understanding clearly from Pisander that this
was the only resource left, they took counsel of their fears, and
promised themselves some day to change the government again, and
gave way.  They accordingly voted that Pisander should sail with ten
others and make the best arrangement that they could with Tissaphernes
and Alcibiades.  At the same time the people, upon a false accusation
of Pisander, dismissed Phrynichus from his post together with his
colleague Scironides, sending Diomedon and Leon to replace them in the
command of the fleet.  The accusation was that Phrynichus had
betrayed Iasus and Amorges; and Pisander brought it because he thought
him a man unfit for the business now in hand with Alcibiades.  Pisander
also went the round of all the clubs already existing in the city
for help in lawsuits and elections, and urged them to draw together
and to unite their efforts for the overthrow of the democracy; and
after taking all other measures required by the circumstances, so that
no time might be lost, set off with his ten companions on his voyage
to Tissaphernes.

In the same winter Leon and Diomedon, who had by this time joined
the fleet, made an attack upon Rhodes.  The ships of the Peloponnesians
they found hauled up on shore, and, after making a descent upon the
coast and defeating the Rhodians who appeared in the field against
them, withdrew to Chalce and made that place their base of
operations instead of Cos, as they could better observe from thence if
the Peloponnesian fleet put out to sea.  Meanwhile Xenophantes, a
Laconian, came to Rhodes from Pedaritus at Chios, with the news that
the fortification of the Athenians was now finished, and that,
unless the whole Peloponnesian fleet came to the rescue, the cause
in Chios must be lost.  Upon this they resolved to go to his relief.  In
the meantime Pedaritus, with the mercenaries that he had with him
and the whole force of the Chians, made an assault upon the work round
the Athenian ships and took a portion of it, and got possession of
some vessels that were hauled up on shore, when the Athenians
sallied out to the rescue, and first routing the Chians, next defeated
the remainder of the force round Pedaritus, who was himself killed,
with many of the Chians, a great number of arms being also taken.

After this the Chians were besieged even more straitly than before
by land and sea, and the famine in the place was great.  Meanwhile
the Athenian envoys with Pisander arrived at the court of
Tissaphernes, and conferred with him about the proposed agreement.
However, Alcibiades, not being altogether sure of Tissaphernes (who
feared the Peloponnesians more than the Athenians, and besides
wished to wear out both parties, as Alcibiades himself had
recommended), had recourse to the following stratagem to make the
treaty between the Athenians and Tissaphernes miscarry by reason of
the magnitude of his demands.  In my opinion Tissaphernes desired
this result, fear being his motive; while Alcibiades, who now saw that
Tissaphernes was determined not to treat on any terms, wished the
Athenians to think, not that he was unable to persuade Tissaphernes,
but that after the latter had been persuaded and was willing to join
them, they had not conceded enough to him.  For the demands of
Alcibiades, speaking for Tissaphernes, who was present, were so
extravagant that the Athenians, although for a long while they
agreed to whatever he asked, yet had to bear the blame of failure:
he required the cession of the whole of Ionia, next of the islands
adjacent, besides other concessions, and these passed without
opposition; at last, in the third interview, Alcibiades, who now
feared a complete discovery of his inability, required them to allow
the King to build ships and sail along his own coast wherever and with
as many as he pleased.  Upon this the Athenians would yield no further,
and concluding that there was nothing to be done, but that they had
been deceived by Alcibiades, went away in a passion and proceeded to
Samos.

Tissaphernes immediately after this, in the same winter, proceeded
along shore to Caunus, desiring to bring the Peloponnesian fleet
back to Miletus, and to supply them with pay, making a fresh
convention upon such terms as he could get, in order not to bring
matters to an absolute breach between them.  He was afraid that if many
of their ships were left without pay they would be compelled to engage
and be defeated, or that their vessels being left without hands the
Athenians would attain their objects without his assistance.  Still
more he feared that the Peloponnesians might ravage the continent in
search of supplies.  Having calculated and considered all this,
agreeably to his plan of keeping the two sides equal, he now sent
for the Peloponnesians and gave them pay, and concluded with them a
third treaty in words following:

In the thirteenth year of the reign of Darius, while Alexippidas
was ephor at Lacedaemon, a convention was concluded in the plain of
the Maeander by the Lacedaemonians and their allies with Tissaphernes,
Hieramenes, and the sons of Pharnaces, concerning the affairs of the
King and of the Lacedaemonians and their allies.

1.  The country of the King in Asia shall be the King's, and the
King shall treat his own country as he pleases.

2.  The Lacedaemonians and their allies shall not invade or
injure the King's country: neither shall the King invade or injure
that of the Lacedaemonians or of their allies.  If any of the
Lacedaemonians or of their allies invade or injure the King's country,
the Lacedaemonians and their allies shall prevent it: and if any
from the King's country invade or injure the country of the
Lacedaemonians or of their allies, the King shall prevent it.

3.  Tissaphernes shall provide pay for the ships now present,
according to the agreement, until the arrival of the King's vessels:
but after the arrival of the King's vessels the Lacedaemonians and
their allies may pay their own ships if they wish it.  If, however,
they choose to receive the pay from Tissaphernes, Tissaphernes shall
furnish it: and the Lacedaemonians and their allies shall repay him at
the end of the war such moneys as they shall have received.

4.  After the vessels have arrived, the ships of the Lacedaemonians
and of their allies and those of the King shall carry on the war
jointly, according as Tissaphernes and the Lacedaemonians and their
allies shall think best.  If they wish to make peace with the
Athenians, they shall make peace also jointly.

This was the treaty.  After this Tissaphernes prepared to bring up
the Phoenician fleet according to agreement, and to make good his
other promises, or at all events wished to make it appear that he
was so preparing.

Winter was now drawing towards its close, when the Boeotians took
Oropus by treachery, though held by an Athenian garrison.  Their
accomplices in this were some of the Eretrians and of the Oropians
themselves, who were plotting the revolt of Euboea, as the place was
exactly opposite Eretria, and while in Athenian hands was
necessarily a source of great annoyance to Eretria and the rest of
Euboea.  Oropus being in their hands, the Eretrians now came to
Rhodes to invite the Peloponnesians into Euboea.  The latter,
however, were rather bent on the relief of the distressed Chians,
and accordingly put out to sea and sailed with all their ships from
Rhodes.  Off Triopium they sighted the Athenian fleet out at sea
sailing from Chalce, and, neither attacking the other, arrived, the
latter at Samos, the Peloponnesians at Miletus, seeing that it was
no longer possible to relieve Chios without a battle.  And this
winter ended, and with it ended the twentieth year of this war of
which Thucydides is the historian.

Early in the spring of the summer following, Dercyllidas, a Spartan,
was sent with a small force by land to the Hellespont to effect the
revolt of Abydos, which is a Milesian colony; and the Chians, while
Astyochus was at a loss how to help them, were compelled to fight at
sea by the pressure of the siege.  While Astyochus was still at
Rhodes they had received from Miletus, as their commander after the
death of Pedaritus, a Spartan named Leon, who had come out with
Antisthenes, and twelve vessels which had been on guard at Miletus,
five of which were Thurian, four Syracusans, one from Anaia, one
Milesian, and one Leon's own.  Accordingly the Chians marched out in
mass and took up a strong position, while thirty-six of their ships
put out and engaged thirty-two of the Athenians; and after a tough
fight, in which the Chians and their allies had rather the best of it,
as it was now late, retired to their city.

Immediately after this Dercyllidas arrived by land from Miletus; and
Abydos in the Hellespont revolted to him and Pharnabazus, and
Lampsacus two days later.  Upon receipt of this news Strombichides
hastily sailed from Chios with twenty-four Athenian ships, some
transports carrying heavy infantry being of the number, and
defeating the Lampsacenes who came out against him, took Lampsacus,
which was unfortified, at the first assault, and making prize of the
slaves and goods restored the freemen to their homes, and went on to
Abydos.  The inhabitants, however, refusing to capitulate, and his
assaults failing to take the place, he sailed over to the coast
opposite, and appointed Sestos, the town in the Chersonese held by the
Medes at a former period in this history, as the centre for the
defence of the whole Hellespont.

In the meantime the Chians commanded the sea more than before; and
the Peloponnesians at Miletus and Astyochus, hearing of the
sea-fight and of the departure of the squadron with Strombichides,
took fresh courage.  Coasting along with two vessels to Chios,
Astyochus took the ships from that place, and now moved with the whole
fleet upon Samos, from whence, however, he sailed back to Miletus,
as the Athenians did not put out against him, owing to their
suspicions of one another.  For it was about this time, or even before,
that the democracy was put down at Athens.  When Pisander and the
envoys returned from Tissaphernes to Samos they at once strengthened
still further their interest in the army itself, and instigated the
upper class in Samos to join them in establishing an oligarchy, the
very form of government which a party of them had lately risen to
avoid.  At the same time the Athenians at Samos, after a consultation
among themselves, determined to let Alcibiades alone, since he refused
to join them, and besides was not the man for an oligarchy; and now
that they were once embarked, to see for themselves how they could
best prevent the ruin of their cause, and meanwhile to sustain the
war, and to contribute without stint money and all else that might
be required from their own private estates, as they would henceforth
labour for themselves alone.

After encouraging each other in these resolutions, they now at
once sent off half the envoys and Pisander to do what was necessary at
Athens (with instructions to establish oligarchies on their way in all
the subject cities which they might touch at), and dispatched the
other half in different directions to the other dependencies.
Diitrephes also, who was in the neighbourhood of Chios, and had been
elected to the command of the Thracian towns, was sent off to his
government, and arriving at Thasos abolished the democracy there.
Two months, however, had not elapsed after his departure before the
Thasians began to fortify their town, being already tired of an
aristocracy with Athens, and in daily expectation of freedom from
Lacedaemon.  Indeed there was a party of them (whom the Athenians had
banished), with the Peloponnesians, who with their friends in the town
were already making every exertion to bring a squadron, and to
effect the revolt of Thasos; and this party thus saw exactly what they
most wanted done, that is to say, the reformation of the government
without risk, and the abolition of the democracy which would have
opposed them.  Things at Thasos thus turned out just the contrary to
what the oligarchical conspirators at Athens expected; and the same in
my opinion was the case in many of the other dependencies; as the
cities no sooner got a moderate government and liberty of action, than
they went on to absolute freedom without being at all seduced by the
show of reform offered by the Athenians.

Pisander and his colleagues on their voyage alongshore abolished, as
had been determined, the democracies in the cities, and also took some
heavy infantry from certain places as their allies, and so came to
Athens.  Here they found most of the work already done by their
associates.  Some of the younger men had banded together, and
secretly assassinated one Androcles, the chief leader of the
commons, and mainly responsible for the banishment of Alcibiades;
Androcles being singled out both because he was a popular leader and
because they sought by his death to recommend themselves to
Alcibiades, who was, as they supposed, to be recalled, and to make
Tissaphernes their friend.  There were also some other obnoxious
persons whom they secretly did away with in the same manner.  Meanwhile
their cry in public was that no pay should be given except to
persons serving in the war, and that not more than five thousand
should share in the government, and those such as were most able to
serve the state in person and in purse.

But this was a mere catchword for the multitude, as the authors of
the revolution were really to govern.  However, the Assembly and the
Council of the Bean still met notwithstanding, although they discussed
nothing that was not approved of by the conspirators, who both
supplied the speakers and reviewed in advance what they were to say.
Fear, and the sight of the numbers of the conspirators, closed the
mouths of the rest; or if any ventured to rise in opposition, he was
presently put to death in some convenient way, and there was neither
search for the murderers nor justice to be had against them if
suspected; but the people remained motionless, being so thoroughly
cowed that men thought themselves lucky to escape violence, even
when they held their tongues.  An exaggerated belief in the numbers
of the conspirators also demoralized the people, rendered helpless
by the magnitude of the city, and by their want of intelligence with
each other, and being without means of finding out what those
numbers really were.  For the same reason it was impossible for any one
to open his grief to a neighbour and to concert measures to defend
himself, as he would have had to speak either to one whom he did not
know, or whom he knew but did not trust.  Indeed all the popular
party approached each other with suspicion, each thinking his
neighbour concerned in what was going on, the conspirators having in
their ranks persons whom no one could ever have believed capable of
joining an oligarchy; and these it was who made the many so
suspicious, and so helped to procure impunity for the few, by
confirming the commons in their mistrust of one another.

At this juncture arrived Pisander and his colleagues, who lost no
time in doing the rest.  First they assembled the people, and moved
to elect ten commissioners with full powers to frame a constitution,
and that when this was done they should on an appointed day lay before
the people their opinion as to the best mode of governing the city.
Afterwards, when the day arrived, the conspirators enclosed the
assembly in Colonus, a temple of Poseidon, a little more than a mile
outside the city; when the commissioners simply brought forward this
single motion, that any Athenian might propose with impunity
whatever measure he pleased, heavy penalties being imposed upon any
who should indict for illegality, or otherwise molest him for so
doing.  The way thus cleared, it was now plainly declared that all
tenure of office and receipt of pay under the existing institutions
were at an end, and that five men must be elected as presidents, who
should in their turn elect one hundred, and each of the hundred
three apiece; and that this body thus made up to four hundred should
enter the council chamber with full powers and govern as they judged
best, and should convene the five thousand whenever they pleased.

The man who moved this resolution was Pisander, who was throughout
the chief ostensible agent in putting down the democracy.  But he who
concerted the whole affair, and prepared the way for the
catastrophe, and who had given the greatest thought to the matter, was
Antiphon, one of the best men of his day in Athens; who, with a head
to contrive measures and a tongue to recommend them, did not willingly
come forward in the assembly or upon any public scene, being ill
looked upon by the multitude owing to his reputation for talent; and
who yet was the one man best able to aid in the courts, or before
the assembly, the suitors who required his opinion.  Indeed, when he
was afterwards himself tried for his life on the charge of having been
concerned in setting up this very government, when the Four Hundred
were overthrown and hardly dealt with by the commons, he made what
would seem to be the best defence of any known up to my time.
Phrynichus also went beyond all others in his zeal for the
oligarchy.  Afraid of Alcibiades, and assured that he was no stranger
to his intrigues with Astyochus at Samos, he held that no oligarchy
was ever likely to restore him, and once embarked in the enterprise,
proved, where danger was to be faced, by far the staunchest of them
all.  Theramenes, son of Hagnon, was also one of the foremost of the
subverters of the democracy--a man as able in council as in debate.
Conducted by so many and by such sagacious heads, the enterprise,
great as it was, not unnaturally went forward; although it was no
light matter to deprive the Athenian people of its freedom, almost a
hundred years after the deposition of the tyrants, when it had been
not only not subject to any during the whole of that period, but
accustomed during more than half of it to rule over subjects of its
own.

The assembly ratified the proposed constitution, without a single
opposing voice, and was then dissolved; after which the Four Hundred
were brought into the council chamber in the following way.  On account
of the enemy at Decelea, all the Athenians were constantly on the wall
or in the ranks at the various military posts.  On that day the persons
not in the secret were allowed to go home as usual, while orders
were given to the accomplices of the conspirators to hang about,
without making any demonstration, at some little distance from the
posts, and in case of any opposition to what was being done, to
seize the arms and put it down.  There were also some Andrians and
Tenians, three hundred Carystians, and some of the settlers in
Aegina come with their own arms for this very purpose, who had
received similar instructions.  These dispositions completed, the
Four Hundred went, each with a dagger concealed about his person,
accompanied by one hundred and twenty Hellenic youths, whom they
employed wherever violence was needed, and appeared before the
Councillors of the Bean in the council chamber, and told them to
take their pay and be gone; themselves bringing it for the whole of
the residue of their term of office, and giving it to them as they
went out.

Upon the Council withdrawing in this way without venturing any
objection, and the rest of the citizens making no movement, the Four
Hundred entered the council chamber, and for the present contented
themselves with drawing lots for their Prytanes, and making their
prayers and sacrifices to the gods upon entering office, but
afterwards departed widely from the democratic system of government,
and except that on account of Alcibiades they did not recall the
exiles, ruled the city by force; putting to death some men, though not
many, whom they thought it convenient to remove, and imprisoning and
banishing others.  They also sent to Agis, the Lacedaemonian king, at
Decelea, to say that they desired to make peace, and that he might
reasonably be more disposed to treat now that he had them to deal with
instead of the inconstant commons.

Agis, however, did not believe in the tranquillity of the city, or
that the commons would thus in a moment give up their ancient liberty,
but thought that the sight of a large Lacedaemonian force would be
sufficient to excite them if they were not already in commotion, of
which he was by no means certain.  He accordingly gave to the envoys of
the Four Hundred an answer which held out no hopes of an
accommodation, and sending for large reinforcements from
Peloponnese, not long afterwards, with these and his garrison from
Decelea, descended to the very walls of Athens; hoping either that
civil disturbances might help to subdue them to his terms, or that, in
the confusion to be expected within and without the city, they might
even surrender without a blow being struck; at all events he thought
he would succeed in seizing the Long Walls, bared of their
defenders.  However, the Athenians saw him come close up, without
making the least disturbance within the city; and sending out their
cavalry, and a number of their heavy infantry, light troops, and
archers, shot down some of his soldiers who approached too near, and
got possession of some arms and dead.  Upon this Agis, at last
convinced, led his army back again and, remaining with his own
troops in the old position at Decelea, sent the reinforcement back
home, after a few days' stay in Attica.  After this the Four Hundred
persevering sent another embassy to Agis, and now meeting with a
better reception, at his suggestion dispatched envoys to Lacedaemon to
negotiate a treaty, being desirous of making peace.

They also sent ten men to Samos to reassure the army, and to explain
that the oligarchy was not established for the hurt of the city or the
citizens, but for the salvation of the country at large; and that
there were five thousand, not four hundred only, concerned;
although, what with their expeditions and employments abroad, the
Athenians had never yet assembled to discuss a question important
enough to bring five thousand of them together.  The emissaries were
also told what to say upon all other points, and were so sent off
immediately after the establishment of the new government, which
feared, as it turned out justly, that the mass of seamen would not
be willing to remain under the oligarchical constitution, and, the
evil beginning there, might be the means of their overthrow.

Indeed at Samos the question of the oligarchy had already entered
upon a new phase, the following events having taken place just at
the time that the Four Hundred were conspiring.  That part of the
Samian population which has been mentioned as rising against the upper
class, and as being the democratic party, had now turned round, and
yielding to the solicitations of Pisander during his visit, and of the
Athenians in the conspiracy at Samos, had bound themselves by oaths to
the number of three hundred, and were about to fall upon the rest of
their fellow citizens, whom they now in their turn regarded as the
democratic party.  Meanwhile they put to death one Hyperbolus, an
Athenian, a pestilent fellow that had been ostracized, not from fear
of his influence or position, but because he was a rascal and a
disgrace to the city; being aided in this by Charminus, one of the
generals, and by some of the Athenians with them, to whom they had
sworn friendship, and with whom they perpetrated other acts of the
kind, and now determined to attack the people.  The latter got wind
of what was coming, and told two of the generals, Leon and Diomedon,
who, on account of the credit which they enjoyed with the commons,
were unwilling supporters of the oligarchy; and also Thrasybulus and
Thrasyllus, the former a captain of a galley, the latter serving
with the heavy infantry, besides certain others who had ever been
thought most opposed to the conspirators, entreating them not to
look on and see them destroyed, and Samos, the sole remaining stay
of their empire, lost to the Athenians.  Upon hearing this, the persons
whom they addressed now went round the soldiers one by one, and
urged them to resist, especially the crew of the Paralus, which was
made up entirely of Athenians and freemen, and had from time out of
mind been enemies of oligarchy, even when there was no such thing
existing; and Leon and Diomedon left behind some ships for their
protection in case of their sailing away anywhere themselves.
Accordingly, when the Three Hundred attacked the people, all these
came to the rescue, and foremost of all the crew of the Paralus; and
the Samian commons gained the victory, and putting to death some
thirty of the Three Hundred, and banishing three others of the
ringleaders, accorded an amnesty to the rest, and lived together under
a democratic government for the future.

The ship Paralus, with Chaereas, son of Archestratus, on board, an
Athenian who had taken an active part in the revolution, was now
without loss of time sent off by the Samians and the army to Athens to
report what had occurred; the fact that the Four Hundred were in power
not being yet known.  When they sailed into harbour the Four Hundred
immediately arrested two or three of the Parali and, taking the vessel
from the rest, shifted them into a troopship and set them to keep
guard round Euboea.  Chaereas, however, managed to secrete himself as
soon as he saw how things stood, and returning to Samos, drew a
picture to the soldiers of the horrors enacting at Athens, in which
everything was exaggerated; saying that all were punished with
stripes, that no one could say a word against the holders of power,
that the soldiers' wives and children were outraged, and that it was
intended to seize and shut up the relatives of all in the army at
Samos who were not of the government's way of thinking, to be put to
death in case of their disobedience; besides a host of other injurious
inventions.

On hearing this the first thought of the army was to fall upon the
chief authors of the oligarchy and upon all the rest concerned.
Eventually, however, they desisted from this idea upon the men of
moderate views opposing it and warning them against ruining their
cause, with the enemy close at hand and ready for battle.  After
this, Thrasybulus, son of Lycus, and Thrasyllus, the chief leaders
in the revolution, now wishing in the most public manner to change the
government at Samos to a democracy, bound all the soldiers by the most
tremendous oaths, and those of the oligarchical party more than any,
to accept a democratic government, to be united, to prosecute actively
the war with the Peloponnesians, and to be enemies of the Four
Hundred, and to hold no communication with them.  The same oath was
also taken by all the Samians of full age; and the soldiers associated
the Samians in all their affairs and in the fruits of their dangers,
having the conviction that there was no way of escape for themselves
or for them, but that the success of the Four Hundred or of the
enemy at Miletus must be their ruin.

The struggle now was between the army trying to force a democracy
upon the city, and the Four Hundred an oligarchy upon the camp.
Meanwhile the soldiers forthwith held an assembly, in which they
deposed the former generals and any of the captains whom they
suspected, and chose new captains and generals to replace them,
besides Thrasybulus and Thrasyllus, whom they had already.  They also
stood up and encouraged one another, and among other things urged that
they ought not to lose heart because the city had revolted from
them, as the party seceding was smaller and in every way poorer in
resources than themselves.  They had the whole fleet with which to
compel the other cities in their empire to give them money just as
if they had their base in the capital, having a city in Samos which,
so far from wanting strength, had when at war been within an ace of
depriving the Athenians of the command of the sea, while as far as the
enemy was concerned they had the same base of operations as before.
Indeed, with the fleet in their hands, they were better able to
provide themselves with supplies than the government at home.  It was
their advanced position at Samos which had throughout enabled the home
authorities to command the entrance into Piraeus; and if they
refused to give them back the constitution, they would now find that
the army was more in a position to exclude them from the sea than they
were to exclude the army.  Besides, the city was of little or no use
towards enabling them to overcome the enemy; and they had lost nothing
in losing those who had no longer either money to send them (the
soldiers having to find this for themselves), or good counsel, which
entitles cities to direct armies.  On the contrary, even in this the
home government had done wrong in abolishing the institutions of their
ancestors, while the army maintained the said institutions, and
would try to force the home government to do so likewise.  So that even
in point of good counsel the camp had as good counsellors as the city.
Moreover, they had but to grant him security for his person and his
recall, and Alcibiades would be only too glad to procure them the
alliance of the King.  And above all if they failed altogether, with
the navy which they possessed, they had numbers of places to retire to
in which they would find cities and lands.

Debating together and comforting themselves after this manner,
they pushed on their war measures as actively as ever; and the ten
envoys sent to Samos by the Four Hundred, learning how matters stood
while they were still at Delos, stayed quiet there.
  About this time a cry arose among the soldiers in the
Peloponnesian fleet at Miletus that Astyochus and Tissaphernes were
ruining their cause.  Astyochus had not been willing to fight at
sea--either before, while they were still in full vigour and the
fleet of the Athenians small, or now, when the enemy was, as they were
informed, in a state of sedition and his ships not yet united--but
kept them waiting for the Phoenician fleet from Tissaphernes, which
had only a nominal existence, at the risk of wasting away in
inactivity.  While Tissaphernes not only did not bring up the fleet in
question, but was ruining their navy by payments made irregularly, and
even then not made in full.  They must therefore, they insisted, delay
no longer, but fight a decisive naval engagement.  The Syracusans were
the most urgent of any.

The confederates and Astyochus, aware of these murmurs, had
already decided in council to fight a decisive battle; and when the
news reached them of the disturbance at Samos, they put to sea with
all their ships, one hundred and ten in number, and, ordering the
Milesians to move by land upon Mycale, set sail thither.  The Athenians
with the eighty-two ships from Samos were at the moment lying at
Glauce in Mycale, a point where Samos approaches near to the
continent; and, seeing the Peloponnesian fleet sailing against them,
retired into Samos, not thinking themselves numerically strong
enough to stake their all upon a battle.  Besides, they had notice from
Miletus of the wish of the enemy to engage, and were expecting to be
joined from the Hellespont by Strombichides, to whom a messenger had
been already dispatched, with the ships that had gone from Chios to
Abydos.  The Athenians accordingly withdrew to Samos, and the
Peloponnesians put in at Mycale, and encamped with the land forces
of the Milesians and the people of the neighbourhood.  The next day
they were about to sail against Samos, when tidings reached them of
the arrival of Strombichides with the squadron from the Hellespont,
upon which they immediately sailed back to Miletus.  The Athenians,
thus reinforced, now in their turn sailed against Miletus with a
hundred and eight ships, wishing to fight a decisive battle, but, as
no one put out to meet them, sailed back to Samos.




CHAPTER XXVI

_Twenty-first Year of the War - Recall of Alcibiades to Samos -
Revolt of Euboea and Downfall of the Four Hundred -
Battle of Cynossema_

In the same summer, immediately after this, the Peloponnesians
having refused to fight with their fleet united, through not
thinking themselves a match for the enemy, and being at a loss where
to look for money for such a number of ships, especially as
Tissaphernes proved so bad a paymaster, sent off Clearchus, son of
Ramphias, with forty ships to Pharnabazus, agreeably to the original
instructions from Peloponnese; Pharnabazus inviting them and being
prepared to furnish pay, and Byzantium besides sending offers to
revolt to them.  These Peloponnesian ships accordingly put out into the
open sea, in order to escape the observation of the Athenians, and
being overtaken by a storm, the majority with Clearchus got into
Delos, and afterwards returned to Miletus, whence Clearchus
proceeded by land to the Hellespont to take the command: ten, however,
of their number, under the Megarian Helixus, made good their passage
to the Hellespont, and effected the revolt of Byzantium.  After this,
the commanders at Samos were informed of it, and sent a squadron
against them to guard the Hellespont; and an encounter took place
before Byzantium between eight vessels on either side.

Meanwhile the chiefs at Samos, and especially Thrasybulus, who
from the moment that he had changed the government had remained firmly
resolved to recall Alcibiades, at last in an assembly brought over the
mass of the soldiery, and upon their voting for his recall and
amnesty, sailed over to Tissaphernes and brought Alcibiades to
Samos, being convinced that their only chance of salvation lay in
his bringing over Tissaphernes from the Peloponnesians to
themselves.  An assembly was then held in which Alcibiades complained
of and deplored his private misfortune in having been banished, and
speaking at great length upon public affairs, highly incited their
hopes for the future, and extravagantly magnified his own influence
with Tissaphernes.  His object in this was to make the oligarchical
government at Athens afraid of him, to hasten the dissolution of the
clubs, to increase his credit with the army at Samos and heighten
their own confidence, and lastly to prejudice the enemy as strongly as
possible against Tissaphernes, and blast the hopes which they
entertained.  Alcibiades accordingly held out to the army such
extravagant promises as the following: that Tissaphernes had
solemnly assured him that if he could only trust the Athenians they
should never want for supplies while he had anything left, no, not
even if he should have to coin his own silver couch, and that he would
bring the Phoenician fleet now at Aspendus to the Athenians instead of
to the Peloponnesians; but that he could only trust the Athenians if
Alcibiades were recalled to be his security for them.

Upon hearing this and much more besides, the Athenians at once
elected him general together with the former ones, and put all their
affairs into his hands.  There was now not a man in the army who
would have exchanged his present hopes of safety and vengeance upon
the Four Hundred for any consideration whatever; and after what they
had been told they were now inclined to disdain the enemy before them,
and to sail at once for Piraeus.  To the plan of sailing for Piraeus,
leaving their more immediate enemies behind them, Alcibiades opposed
the most positive refusal, in spite of the numbers that insisted
upon it, saying that now that he had been elected general he would
first sail to Tissaphernes and concert with him measures for
carrying on the war.  Accordingly, upon leaving this assembly, he
immediately took his departure in order to have it thought that
there was an entire confidence between them, and also wishing to
increase his consideration with Tissaphernes, and to show that he
had now been elected general and was in a position to do him good or
evil as he chose; thus managing to frighten the Athenians with
Tissaphernes and Tissaphernes with the Athenians.

Meanwhile the Peloponnesians at Miletus heard of the recall of
Alcibiades and, already distrustful of Tissaphernes, now became far
more disgusted with him than ever.  Indeed after their refusal to go
out and give battle to the Athenians when they appeared before
Miletus, Tissaphernes had grown slacker than ever in his payments; and
even before this, on account of Alcibiades, his unpopularity had
been on the increase.  Gathering together, just as before, the soldiers
and some persons of consideration besides the soldiery began to reckon
up how they had never yet received their pay in full; that what they
did receive was small in quantity, and even that paid irregularly, and
that unless they fought a decisive battle or removed to some station
where they could get supplies, the ships' crews would desert; and that
it was all the fault of Astyochus, who humoured Tissaphernes for his
own private advantage.

The army was engaged in these reflections, when the following
disturbance took place about the person of Astyochus.  Most of the
Syracusan and Thurian sailors were freemen, and these the freest crews
in the armament were likewise the boldest in setting upon Astyochus
and demanding their pay.  The latter answered somewhat stiffly and
threatened them, and when Dorieus spoke up for his own sailors even
went so far as to lift his baton against him; upon seeing which the
mass of men, in sailor fashion, rushed in a fury to strike
Astyochus.  He, however, saw them in time and fled for refuge to an
altar; and they were thus parted without his being struck.  Meanwhile
the fort built by Tissaphernes in Miletus was surprised and taken by
the Milesians, and the garrison in it turned out--an act which met
with the approval of the rest of the allies, and in particular of the
Syracusans, but which found no favour with Lichas, who said moreover
that the Milesians and the rest in the King's country ought to show
a reasonable submission to Tissaphernes and to pay him court, until
the war should be happily settled.  The Milesians were angry with him
for this and for other things of the kind, and upon his afterwards
dying of sickness, would not allow him to be buried where the
Lacedaemonians with the army desired.

The discontent of the army with Astyochus and Tissaphernes had
reached this pitch, when Mindarus arrived from Lacedaemon to succeed
Astyochus as admiral, and assumed the command.  Astyochus now set
sail for home; and Tissaphernes sent with him one of his confidants,
Gaulites, a Carian, who spoke the two languages, to complain of the
Milesians for the affair of the fort, and at the same time to defend
himself against the Milesians, who were, as he was aware, on their way
to Sparta chiefly to denounce his conduct, and had with them
Hermocrates, who was to accuse Tissaphernes of joining with Alcibiades
to ruin the Peloponnesian cause and of playing a double game.  Indeed
Hermocrates had always been at enmity with him about the pay not being
restored in full; and eventually when he was banished from Syracuse,
and new commanders--Potamis, Myscon, and Demarchus--had come out to
Miletus to the ships of the Syracusans, Tissaphernes, pressed harder
than ever upon him in his exile, and among other charges against him
accused him of having once asked him for money, and then given himself
out as his enemy because he failed to obtain it.

While Astyochus and the Milesians and Hermocrates made sail for
Lacedaemon, Alcibiades had now crossed back from Tissaphernes to
Samos.  After his return the envoys of the Four Hundred sent, as has
been mentioned above, to pacify and explain matters to the forces at
Samos, arrived from Delos; and an assembly was held in which they
attempted to speak.  The soldiers at first would not hear them, and
cried out to put to death the subverters of the democracy, but at
last, after some difficulty, calmed down and gave them a hearing.  Upon
this the envoys proceeded to inform them that the recent change had
been made to save the city, and not to ruin it or to deliver it over
to the enemy, for they had already had an opportunity of doing this
when he invaded the country during their government; that all the Five
Thousand would have their proper share in the government; and that
their hearers' relatives had neither outrage, as Chaereas had
slanderously reported, nor other ill treatment to complain of, but
were all in undisturbed enjoyment of their property just as they had
left them.  Besides these they made a number of other statements
which had no better success with their angry auditors; and amid a host
of different opinions the one which found most favour was that of
sailing to Piraeus.  Now it was that Alcibiades for the first time
did the state a service, and one of the most signal kind.  For when the
Athenians at Samos were bent upon sailing against their countrymen, in
which case Ionia and the Hellespont would most certainly at once
have passed into possession of the enemy, Alcibiades it was who
prevented them.  At that moment, when no other man would have been able
to hold back the multitude, he put a stop to the intended
expedition, and rebuked and turned aside the resentment felt, on
personal grounds, against the envoys; he dismissed them with an answer
from himself, to the effect that he did not object to the government
of the Five Thousand, but insisted that the Four Hundred should be
deposed and the Council of Five Hundred reinstated in power: meanwhile
any retrenchments for economy, by which pay might be better found
for the armament, met with his entire approval.  Generally, he bade
them hold out and show a bold face to the enemy, since if the city
were saved there was good hope that the two parties might some day
be reconciled, whereas if either were once destroyed, that at Samos,
or that at Athens, there would no longer be any one to be reconciled
to.  Meanwhile arrived envoys from the Argives, with offers of
support to the Athenian commons at Samos: these were thanked by
Alcibiades, and dismissed with a request to come when called upon.  The
Argives were accompanied by the crew of the Paralus, whom we left
placed in a troopship by the Four Hundred with orders to cruise
round Euboea, and who being employed to carry to Lacedaemon some
Athenian envoys sent by the Four Hundred--Laespodias, Aristophon, and
Melesias--as they sailed by Argos laid hands upon the envoys, and
delivering them over to the Argives as the chief subverters of the
democracy, themselves, instead of returning to Athens, took the Argive
envoys on board, and came to Samos in the galley which had been
confided to them.

The same summer at the time that the return of Alcibiades coupled
with the general conduct of Tissaphernes had carried to its height the
discontent of the Peloponnesians, who no longer entertained any
doubt of his having joined the Athenians, Tissaphernes wishing, it
would seem, to clear himself to them of these charges, prepared to
go after the Phoenician fleet to Aspendus, and invited Lichas to go
with him; saying that he would appoint Tamos as his lieutenant to
provide pay for the armament during his own absence.  Accounts
differ, and it is not easy to ascertain with what intention he went to
Aspendus, and did not bring the fleet after all.  That one hundred
and forty-seven Phoenician ships came as far as Aspendus is certain;
but why they did not come on has been variously accounted for.  Some
think that he went away in pursuance of his plan of wasting the
Peloponnesian resources, since at any rate Tamos, his lieutenant,
far from being any better, proved a worse paymaster than himself:
others that he brought the Phoenicians to Aspendus to exact money from
them for their discharge, having never intended to employ them: others
again that it was in view of the outcry against him at Lacedaemon,
in order that it might be said that he was not in fault, but that
the ships were really manned and that he had certainly gone to fetch
them.  To myself it seems only too evident that he did not bring up the
fleet because he wished to wear out and paralyse the Hellenic
forces, that is, to waste their strength by the time lost during his
journey to Aspendus, and to keep them evenly balanced by not
throwing his weight into either scale.  Had he wished to finish the
war, he could have done so, assuming of course that he made his
appearance in a way which left no room for doubt; as by bringing up
the fleet he would in all probability have given the victory to the
Lacedaemonians, whose navy, even as it was, faced the Athenian more as
an equal than as an inferior.  But what convicts him most clearly, is
the excuse which he put forward for not bringing the ships.  He said
that the number assembled was less than the King had ordered; but
surely it would only have enhanced his credit if he spent little of
the King's money and effected the same end at less cost.  In any
case, whatever was his intention, Tissaphernes went to Aspendus and
saw the Phoenicians; and the Peloponnesians at his desire sent a
Lacedaemonian called Philip with two galleys to fetch the fleet.

Alcibiades finding that Tissaphernes had gone to Aspendus, himself
sailed thither with thirteen ships, promising to do a great and
certain service to the Athenians at Samos, as he would either bring
the Phoenician fleet to the Athenians, or at all events prevent its
joining the Peloponnesians.  In all probability he had long known
that Tissaphernes never meant to bring the fleet at all, and wished to
compromise him as much as possible in the eyes of the Peloponnesians
through his apparent friendship for himself and the Athenians, and
thus in a manner to oblige him to join their side.

While Alcibiades weighed anchor and sailed eastward straight for
Phaselis and Caunus, the envoys sent by the Four Hundred to Samos
arrived at Athens.  Upon their delivering the message from
Alcibiades, telling them to hold out and to show a firm front to the
enemy, and saying that he had great hopes of reconciling them with the
army and of overcoming the Peloponnesians, the majority of the members
of the oligarchy, who were already discontented and only too much
inclined to be quit of the business in any safe way that they could,
were at once greatly strengthened in their resolve.  These now banded
together and strongly criticized the administration, their leaders
being some of the principal generals and men in office under the
oligarchy, such as Theramenes, son of Hagnon, Aristocrates, son of
Scellias, and others; who, although among the most prominent members
of the government (being afraid, as they said, of the army at Samos,
and most especially of Alcibiades, and also lest the envoys whom
they had sent to Lacedaemon might do the state some harm without the
authority of the people), without insisting on objections to the
excessive concentration of power in a few hands, yet urged that the
Five Thousand must be shown to exist not merely in name but in
reality, and the constitution placed upon a fairer basis.  But this was
merely their political cry; most of them being driven by private
ambition into the line of conduct so surely fatal to oligarchies
that arise out of democracies.  For all at once pretend to be not
only equals but each the chief and master of his fellows; while
under a democracy a disappointed candidate accepts his defeat more
easily, because he has not the humiliation of being beaten by his
equals.  But what most clearly encouraged the malcontents was the power
of Alcibiades at Samos, and their own disbelief in the stability of
the oligarchy; and it was now a race between them as to which should
first become the leader of the commons.

Meanwhile the leaders and members of the Four Hundred most opposed
to a democratic form of government--Phrynichus who had had the
quarrel with Alcibiades during his command at Samos, Aristarchus the
bitter and inveterate enemy of the commons, and Pisander and
Antiphon and others of the chiefs who already as soon as they
entered upon power, and again when the army at Samos seceded from them
and declared for a democracy, had sent envoys from their own body to
Lacedaemon and made every effort for peace, and had built the wall
in Eetionia--now redoubled their exertions when their envoys returned
from Samos, and they saw not only the people but their own most
trusted associates turning against them.  Alarmed at the state of
things at Athens as at Samos, they now sent off in haste Antiphon
and Phrynichus and ten others with injunctions to make peace with
Lacedaemon upon any terms, no matter what, that should be at all
tolerable.  Meanwhile they pushed on more actively than ever with the
wall in Eetionia.  Now the meaning of this wall, according to
Theramenes and his supporters, was not so much to keep out the army of
Samos, in case of its trying to force its way into Piraeus, as to be
able to let in, at pleasure, the fleet and army of the enemy.  For
Eetionia is a mole of Piraeus, close alongside of the entrance of
the harbour, and was now fortified in connection with the wall already
existing on the land side, so that a few men placed in it might be
able to command the entrance; the old wall on the land side and the
new one now being built within on the side of the sea, both ending
in one of the two towers standing at the narrow mouth of the
harbour.  They also walled off the largest porch in Piraeus which was
in immediate connection with this wall, and kept it in their own
hands, compelling all to unload there the corn that came into the
harbour, and what they had in stock, and to take it out from thence
when they sold it.

These measures had long provoked the murmurs of Theramenes, and when
the envoys returned from Lacedaemon without having effected any
general pacification, he affirmed that this wall was like to prove the
ruin of the state.  At this moment forty-two ships from Peloponnese,
including some Siceliot and Italiot vessels from Locri and Tarentum,
had been invited over by the Euboeans and were already riding off
Las in Laconia preparing for the voyage to Euboea, under the command
of Agesandridas, son of Agesander, a Spartan.  Theramenes now
affirmed that this squadron was destined not so much to aid Euboea
as the party fortifying Eetionia, and that unless precautions were
speedily taken the city would be surprised and lost.  This was no
mere calumny, there being really some such plan entertained by the
accused.  Their first wish was to have the oligarchy without giving
up the empire; failing this to keep their ships and walls and be
independent; while, if this also were denied them, sooner than be
the first victims of the restored democracy, they were resolved to
call in the enemy and make peace, give up their walls and ships, and
at all costs retain possession of the government, if their lives
were only assured to them.

For this reason they pushed forward the construction of their work
with posterns and entrances and means of introducing the enemy,
being eager to have it finished in time.  Meanwhile the murmurs against
them were at first confined to a few persons and went on in secret,
until Phrynichus, after his return from the embassy to Lacedaemon, was
laid wait for and stabbed in full market by one of the Peripoli,
falling down dead before he had gone far from the council chamber.  The
assassin escaped; but his accomplice, an Argive, was taken and put
to the torture by the Four Hundred, without their being able to
extract from him the name of his employer, or anything further than
that he knew of many men who used to assemble at the house of the
commander of the Peripoli and at other houses.  Here the matter was
allowed to drop.  This so emboldened Theramenes and Aristocrates and
the rest of their partisans in the Four Hundred and out of doors, that
they now resolved to act.  For by this time the ships had sailed
round from Las, and anchoring at Epidaurus had overrun Aegina; and
Theramenes asserted that, being bound for Euboea, they would never
have sailed in to Aegina and come back to anchor at Epidaurus,
unless they had been invited to come to aid in the designs of which he
had always accused the government.  Further inaction had therefore
now become impossible.  In the end, after a great many seditious
harangues and suspicions, they set to work in real earnest.  The
heavy infantry in Piraeus building the wall in Eetionia, among whom
was Aristocrates, a colonel, with his own tribe, laid hands upon
Alexicles, a general under the oligarchy and the devoted adherent of
the cabal, and took him into a house and confined him there.  In this
they were assisted by one Hermon, commander of the Peripoli in
Munychia, and others, and above all had with them the great bulk of
the heavy infantry.  As soon as the news reached the Four Hundred,
who happened to be sitting in the council chamber, all except the
disaffected wished at once to go to the posts where the arms were, and
menaced Theramenes and his party.  Theramenes defended himself, and
said that he was ready immediately to go and help to rescue Alexicles;
and taking with him one of the generals belonging to his party, went
down to Piraeus, followed by Aristarchus and some young men of the
cavalry.  All was now panic and confusion.  Those in the city imagined
that Piraeus was already taken and the prisoner put to death, while
those in Piraeus expected every moment to be attacked by the party
in the city.  The older men, however, stopped the persons running up
and down the town and making for the stands of arms; and Thucydides
the Pharsalian, proxenus of the city, came forward and threw himself
in the way of the rival factions, and appealed to them not to ruin the
state, while the enemy was still at hand waiting for his
opportunity, and so at length succeeded in quieting them and in
keeping their hands off each other.  Meanwhile Theramenes came down
to Piraeus, being himself one of the generals, and raged and stormed
against the heavy infantry, while Aristarchus and the adversaries of
the people were angry in right earnest.  Most of the heavy infantry,
however, went on with the business without faltering, and asked
Theramenes if he thought the wall had been constructed for any good
purpose, and whether it would not be better that it should be pulled
down.  To this he answered that if they thought it best to pull it
down, he for his part agreed with them.  Upon this the heavy infantry
and a number of the people in Piraeus immediately got up on the
fortification and began to demolish it.  Now their cry to the multitude
was that all should join in the work who wished the Five Thousand to
govern instead of the Four Hundred.  For instead of saying in so many
words "all who wished the commons to govern," they still disguised
themselves under the name of the Five Thousand; being afraid that
these might really exist, and that they might be speaking to one of
their number and get into trouble through ignorance.  Indeed this was
why the Four Hundred neither wished the Five Thousand to exist, nor to
have it known that they did not exist; being of opinion that to give
themselves so many partners in empire would be downright democracy,
while the mystery in question would make the people afraid of one
another.

The next day the Four Hundred, although alarmed, nevertheless
assembled in the council chamber, while the heavy infantry in Piraeus,
after having released their prisoner Alexicles and pulled down the
fortification, went with their arms to the theatre of Dionysus,
close to Munychia, and there held an assembly in which they decided to
march into the city, and setting forth accordingly halted in the
Anaceum.  Here they were joined by some delegates from the Four
Hundred, who reasoned with them one by one, and persuaded those whom
they saw to be the most moderate to remain quiet themselves, and to
keep in the rest; saying that they would make known the Five Thousand,
and have the Four Hundred chosen from them in rotation, as should be
decided by the Five Thousand, and meanwhile entreated them not to ruin
the state or drive it into the arms of the enemy.  After a great many
had spoken and had been spoken to, the whole body of heavy infantry
became calmer than before, absorbed by their fears for the country
at large, and now agreed to hold upon an appointed day an assembly
in the theatre of Dionysus for the restoration of concord.

When the day came for the assembly in the theatre, and they were
upon the point of assembling, news arrived that the forty-two ships
under Agesandridas were sailing from Megara along the coast of
Salamis.  The people to a man now thought that it was just what
Theramenes and his party had so often said, that the ships were
sailing to the fortification, and concluded that they had done well to
demolish it.  But though it may possibly have been by appointment
that Agesandridas hovered about Epidaurus and the neighbourhood, he
would also naturally be kept there by the hope of an opportunity
arising out of the troubles in the town.  In any case the Athenians, on
receipt of the news immediately ran down in mass to Piraeus, seeing
themselves threatened by the enemy with a worse war than their war
among themselves, not at a distance, but close to the harbour of
Athens.  Some went on board the ships already afloat, while others
launched fresh vessels, or ran to defend the walls and the mouth of
the harbour.

Meanwhile the Peloponnesian vessels sailed by, and rounding Sunium
anchored between Thoricus and Prasiae, and afterwards arrived at
Oropus.  The Athenians, with revolution in the city, and unwilling to
lose a moment in going to the relief of their most important
possession (for Euboea was everything to them now that they were
shut out from Attica), were compelled to put to sea in haste and
with untrained crews, and sent Thymochares with some vessels to
Eretria.  These upon their arrival, with the ships already in Euboea,
made up a total of thirty-six vessels, and were immediately forced
to engage.  For Agesandridas, after his crews had dined, put out from
Oropus, which is about seven miles from Eretria by sea; and the
Athenians, seeing him sailing up, immediately began to man their
vessels.  The sailors, however, instead of being by their ships, as
they supposed, were gone away to purchase provisions for their
dinner in the houses in the outskirts of the town; the Eretrians
having so arranged that there should be nothing on sale in the
marketplace, in order that the Athenians might be a long time in
manning their ships, and, the enemy's attack taking them by
surprise, might be compelled to put to sea just as they were.  A signal
also was raised in Eretria to give them notice in Oropus when to put
to sea.  The Athenians, forced to put out so poorly prepared, engaged
off the harbour of Eretria, and after holding their own for some
little while notwithstanding, were at length put to flight and
chased to the shore.  Such of their number as took refuge in Eretria,
which they presumed to be friendly to them, found their fate in that
city, being butchered by the inhabitants; while those who fled to
the Athenian fort in the Eretrian territory, and the vessels which got
to Chalcis, were saved.  The Peloponnesians, after taking twenty-two
Athenian ships, and killing or making prisoners of the crews, set up a
trophy, and not long afterwards effected the revolt of the whole of
Euboea (except Oreus, which was held by the Athenians themselves), and
made a general settlement of the affairs of the island.

When the news of what had happened in Euboea reached Athens, a panic
ensued such as they had never before known.  Neither the disaster in
Sicily, great as it seemed at the time, nor any other had ever so much
alarmed them.  The camp at Samos was in revolt; they had no more
ships or men to man them; they were at discord among themselves and
might at any moment come to blows; and a disaster of this magnitude
coming on the top of all, by which they lost their fleet, and worst of
all Euboea, which was of more value to them than Attica, could not
occur without throwing them into the deepest despondency.  Meanwhile
their greatest and most immediate trouble was the possibility that the
enemy, emboldened by his victory, might make straight for them and
sail against Piraeus, which they had no longer ships to defend; and
every moment they expected him to arrive.  This, with a little more
courage, he might easily have done, in which case he would either have
increased the dissensions of the city by his presence, or, if he had
stayed to besiege it, have compelled the fleet from Ionia, although
the enemy of the oligarchy, to come to the rescue of their country and
of their relatives, and in the meantime would have become master of
the Hellespont, Ionia, the islands, and of everything as far as
Euboea, or, to speak roundly, of the whole Athenian empire.  But
here, as on so many other occasions, the Lacedaemonians proved the
most convenient people in the world for the Athenians to be at war
with.  The wide difference between the two characters, the slowness and
want of energy of the Lacedaemonians as contrasted with the dash and
enterprise of their opponents, proved of the greatest service,
especially to a maritime empire like Athens.  Indeed this was shown
by the Syracusans, who were most like the Athenians in character,
and also most successful in combating them.

Nevertheless, upon receipt of the news, the Athenians manned
twenty ships and called immediately a first assembly in the Pnyx,
where they had been used to meet formerly, and deposed the Four
Hundred and voted to hand over the government to the Five Thousand, of
which body all who furnished a suit of armour were to be members,
decreeing also that no one should receive pay for the discharge of any
office, or if he did should be held accursed.  Many other assemblies
were held afterwards, in which law-makers were elected and all other
measures taken to form a constitution.  It was during the first
period of this constitution that the Athenians appear to have
enjoyed the best government that they ever did, at least in my time.
For the fusion of the high and the low was effected with judgment, and
this was what first enabled the state to raise up her head after her
manifold disasters.  They also voted for the recall of Alcibiades and
of other exiles, and sent to him and to the camp at Samos, and urged
them to devote themselves vigorously to the war.

Upon this revolution taking place, the party of Pisander and
Alexicles and the chiefs of the oligarchs immediately withdrew to
Decelea, with the single exception of Aristarchus, one of the
generals, who hastily took some of the most barbarian of the archers
and marched to Oenoe.  This was a fort of the Athenians upon the
Boeotian border, at that moment besieged by the Corinthians, irritated
by the loss of a party returning from Decelea, who had been cut off by
the garrison.  The Corinthians had volunteered for this service, and
had called upon the Boeotians to assist them.  After communicating with
them, Aristarchus deceived the garrison in Oenoe by telling them
that their countrymen in the city had compounded with the
Lacedaemonians, and that one of the terms of the capitulation was that
they must surrender the place to the Boeotians.  The garrison
believed him as he was general, and besides knew nothing of what had
occurred owing to the siege, and so evacuated the fort under truce.  In
this way the Boeotians gained possession of Oenoe, and the oligarchy
and the troubles at Athens ended.

To return to the Peloponnesians in Miletus.  No pay was forthcoming
from any of the agents deputed by Tissaphernes for that purpose upon
his departure for Aspendus; neither the Phoenician fleet nor
Tissaphernes showed any signs of appearing, and Philip, who had been
sent with him, and another Spartan, Hippocrates, who was at
Phaselis, wrote word to Mindarus, the admiral, that the ships were not
coming at all, and that they were being grossly abused by
Tissaphernes.  Meanwhile Pharnabazus was inviting them to come, and
making every effort to get the fleet and, like Tissaphernes, to
cause the revolt of the cities in his government still subject to
Athens, founding great hopes on his success; until at length, at about
the period of the summer which we have now reached, Mindarus yielded
to his importunities, and, with great order and at a moment's
notice, in or