afened ear,
the gasping almost sobbing tones were Aubrey's.  The first distinct
words that he could not help hearing were, 'No such thing!  There
can't be slavery where one works with a will!' and again, in reply to
something unheard, 'Yes, one can!  Why, how did one do one's Greek?'
--'Very different!'--'How?'--'Oh!'--'Yes; but you are a clever chap,
and had her to teach you, but I only liked it because I'd got it to
do.  Just the same with the desk-work down at the mill; so it may be
the same now.'

Then came fragments of what poor Aubrey had expressed more than once
at home--that his interest in life, in study, in sport, was all gone
with his friend.

'Come, Aubrey, that's stuff.  You'd have had to go to Cambridge, you
know, without me, after I doggedly put myself at that place.  There's
just as much for you to do as ever there was.'

'How you keep on with your _do_!' cried Ethel's spoilt child, with a
touch of petulance.

'Why, what are we come here for--into this world, I mean--but to
_do_!' returned Leonard; 'and I take it, if we do it right, it does
not much matter what or where it is.'

'I shan't have any heart for it!' sighed Aubrey.

'Nonsense!  Not with all your people at home? and though the voice
fell again, the Doctor's ears distinguished the murmur, 'Why, just
the little things she let drop are the greatest help to me here, and
you always have her--'

Then ensued much that was quite inaudible, and at last Leonard said,
'No, old fellow; as long as you don't get ashamed of me, thinking
about you, and knowing what you are about, will be one of the best
pleasures I shall have.  And look here, Aubrey, if we only consider
it right, you and I will be just as really working together, when you
are at your books, and I am making mats, as if we were both at
Cambridge side by side!  It is quite true, is it not, Dr. May?' he
added, since the Doctor, finding it time to depart, had turned round
to close the interview.

'Quite true, my boy,' said the Doctor; 'and I hope Aubrey will try to
take comfort and spirit from it.'

'As if I could!' said Aubrey, impatiently, 'when it only makes me
more mad to see what a fellow they have shut up in here!'

'Not mad, I hope,' said Dr. May; 'but I'll tell you what it should do
for both of us, Aubrey.  It should make us very careful to be worthy
to remain his friends.'

'O, Dr. May!' broke in Leonard, distressed.

'Yes,' returned Dr. May, 'I mean what I say, however you break in,
Master Leonard.  As long as this boy of mine is doing his best for
the right motives, he will care for you as he does now--not quite in
the same despairing way, of course, for holes in one's daily life do
close themselves up with time--but if he slacks off in his respect or
affection for you, then I shall begin to have fears of him.  Now come
away, Aubrey, and remember for your comfort it is not the good-bye it
might have been,' he added, as he watched the mute intensity of the
boys' farewell clasp of the hands; but even then had some difficulty
in getting Aubrey away from the friend so much stronger as the
consoler than as the consoled, and unconsciously showing how in the
last twenty-four hours his mind had acted on the topics presented to
him by Mr. Wilmot.

Changed as he was from the impetuous boyish lad of a few weeks since,
a change even more noticeable when with his contemporary than in
intercourse with elder men, yet the nature was the same.  Obstinacy
had softened into constancy, pride into resolution, generosity made
pardon less difficult, and elevation of temper bore him through many
a humiliation that, through him, bitterly galled his brother.

Whatever he might feel, prison regulations were accepted by him as
matters of course, not worth being treated as separate grievances.
He never showed any shrinking from the assumption of the convict
dress, whilst Henry was fretting and wincing over the very notion of
his wearing it, and trying to arrange that the farewell interview
should precede its adoption.




CHAPTER XVII



Scorn of me recoils on you.
                 E. B. BROWNING


After the first relief, the relaxation of his brother's sentence had
by no means mitigated Henry Ward's sense of disgrace, but had rather
deepened it by keeping poor Leonard a living, not a dead, sorrow.

He was determined to leave England as soon as possible, that his
sisters might never feel that they were the relative of a convict;
and bringing Ella home, he promulgated a decree that Leonard was
never to be mentioned; hoping that his existence might be forgotten
by the little ones.

To hurry from old scenes, and sever former connections, was his sole
thought, as if he could thus break the tie of brotherhood.  There was
a half-formed link that had more easily snapped.  His courtship had
been one of prudence and convenience, and in the overwhelming period
of horror and suspense had been almost forgotten.  The lady's
attempts at sympathy had been rejected by Averil without obstruction
from him, for he had no such love as could have prevented her good
offices from becoming oppressive to his wounded spirit, and he had
not sufficient energy or inclination to rouse himself to a response.

And when the grant of life enabled him to raise his head and look
around him, he felt the failure of his plans an aggravation of his
calamity, though he did not perceive that his impatience to rid
himself of an encumbrance, and clear the way for his marriage, had
been the real origin of the misfortune.  Still he was glad that
matters had gone no further, and that there was no involvement beyond
what could be handsomely disposed of by a letter, resigning his
pretensions, and rejoicing that innate delicacy and prudence had
prevented what might have involved the lady's feelings more deeply in
the misfortune of his family: representing himself in all good faith
as having retreated from her proffered sympathy out of devoted
consideration for her, and closing with elaborate thanks for her
exertions on behalf of 'his unhappy brother.'

The letter had the honour of being infinitely lauded by Mrs. Ledwich,
who dwelt on its nobleness and tenderness in many a tete-a-tete, and
declared her surprise and thankfulness at the immunity of her dear
Matilda's heart.  In strict confidence, too, Dr. Spencer (among
others) learnt that--though it was not to be breathed till the year
was out, above all till the poor Wards were gone--the dear romantic
girl had made her hand the guerdon for obtaining Leonard's life.

'So there's your fate, Dick,' concluded his friend.

'You forget the influence of the press,' returned Dr. May.  'People
don't propose such guerdons without knowing who is to earn them.'

'Yes, she has long believed in King John,' said Ethel.

Meantime Averil Ward was acquiescing in all Henry's projects with
calm desperate passiveness.  She told Mary that she had resolved that
she would never again contend with Henry, but would let him do what
he would with herself and her sisters.  Nor had his tenderness during
her illness been in vain; it had inspired reliance and affection,
such as to give her the instinct of adherence to him as the one stay
left to her.  With Leonard shut up, all places were the same to her,
except that she was in haste to escape from the scenes connected with
her lost brother; and she looked forward with dull despairing
acquiescence to the new life with which Henry hoped to shake off the
past.

A colony was not change enough for Henry's wishes; even there he made
sure of being recognized as the convict's brother, and was resolved
to seek his new home in the wide field of America, disguising his
very name, as Warden, and keeping up no communication with the
prisoner except under cover to Dr. May.

To this unfailing friend was committed the charge of the brother.  He
undertook to watch over the boy, visit him from time to time, take
care of his health, and obtain for him any alleviations permitted by
the prison rules; and as Henry reiterated to Averil, it was
absolutely certain that everything possible from external kindness
was thus secured.  What more could they themselves have done, but
show him their faces at the permitted intervals? which would be mere
wear and tear of feeling, very bad for both parties.

Averil drooped, and disputed not--guessing, though not yet
understanding, the heart hunger she should feel even for such a
dreary glimpse.

Every hour seemed to be another turn of the wheel that hurried on the
departure.  The successor wished to take house and furniture as they
stood, and to enter into possession as soon as possible, as he
already had taken the practice.  This coincided with Henry's burning
impatience to be quit of everything, and to try to drown the sense of
his own identity in the crowds of London.  He was his sisters' only
guardian, their property was entirely in his hands, and no one had
the power of offering any obstacle, so that no delay could be
interposed; and the vague design passed with startling suddenness to
a fixed decision, to be carried into execution immediately.  It came
in one burst upon the May household that Averil and her sisters were
coming to spend a last evening before their absolute packing to go on
the Saturday to London, where they would provide their outfit, and
start in a month for America.

The tidings were brought by Mary, who had, as usual, been spending
part of the morning with Averil.  No one seemed to be so much taken
by surprise as Tom, whose first movement was to fall on his sisters
for not having made him aware of such a preposterous scheme.  They
thought he knew.  He knew that all the five quarters of the world had
been talked of in a wild sort of a way; but how could he suppose that
any man could be crazed enough to prefer to be an American citizen,
when he might remain a British subject?

Repugnance to America was naturally strong in Tom, and had of late
been enhanced by conversations with an Eton friend, who, while
quartered in Canada, had made excursions into the States, and
acquired such impressions as high-bred young officers were apt to
bring home from a superficial view of them.  Thus fortified, he
demanded whether any reasonable person had tried to bring Henry Ward
to his senses.

Ethel believed that papa had advised otherwise.

'Advised!  It should have been enforced!  If he is fool enough to
alter his name, and throw up all his certificates what is to become
of him?  He will get no practice in any civilized place, and will
have to betake himself to some pestilential swamp, will slave his
sisters to death, spend their money, and destroy them with ague.  How
can you sit still and look on, Ethel?'

'But what could I do?'

'Stir up my father to interfere.'

'I thought you always warned us against interfering with Henry Ward.'

He treated this speech as maliciously designed to enrage him.
'Ethel!' he stammered, 'in a case like this--where the welfare--the
very life--of one--of your dearest friend--of Mary's, I mean--I did
think you would have been above--'

'But, Tom, I would do my utmost, and so would papa, if it were
possible to do anything; but it is quite in vain.  Henry is resolved
against remaining under British rule, and America seems to be the
only field for him.'

'Much you know or care!' cried Tom.  'Well, if no one else will, I
must!'

With which words he departed, leaving his sister surprised at his
solicitude, and dubious of the efficacy of his remonstrance, though
she knew by experience that Tom was very different in a great matter
from what he was in a small one.

Tom betook himself to Bankside, and the first person he encountered
there was his little friend Ella, who ran up to him at once.

'Oh, Mr. Tom, we are going to America!  Shall you be sorry?'

'Very sorry,' said Tom, as the little hand was confidingly thrust
into his.

'I should not mind it, if you were coming too, Mr. Tom!'

'What, to play at French billiards?'

'No, indeed!  To find objects for the microscope.  I shall save all
the objects I meet, and send them home in a letter.'

'An alligator or two, or a branch of the Mississippi,' said Tom, in a
young man's absent way of half-answering a pet child; but the reply
so struck Ella's fancy, that, springing through the open French
window, she cried,  'Oh, Ave, Ave, here is Mr. Tom saying I am to
send him a branch of the Mississippi in a letter, as an object for
his microscope!'

'I beg your pardon,' said Tom, shocked at Averil's nervous start, and
still more shocked at her appearance.  She looked like one shattered
by long and severe illness; her eyes were restless and distressed,
her hair thrust back as if it oppressed her temples, her manner
startled and over-wrought, her hand hot and unsteady--her whole air
that of one totally unequal to the task before her.  He apologized
for having taken her by surprise, and asked for her brother.  She
answered, that he was busy at Mr. Bramshaw's, and she did not know
when he would come in.  But still Tom lingered; he could not bear to
leave her to exertions beyond her strength.  'You are tiring
yourself,' he said; 'can I do nothing to help you?'

'No, no, thank you; I am only looking over things.  Minna is helping
me, and I am making an inventory.'

'Then you must let me be of use to you.  You must be as quiet as
possible.  You need rest.'

'I can't rest; I'm better busy!' she said hastily, with quick,
aimless, bustling movements.

But Tom had his father's tone, as he gently arrested the trembling
hand that was pulling open a drawer, and with his father's sweet,
convincing smile, said, 'What's that for?' then drew up a large arm-
chair, placed her in it, and, taking pen and list, began to write--
sometimes at her suggestion, sometimes at his own--giving business-
like and efficient aid.

The work was so grave and regular, that Ella soon found the room
tedious, and crept out, calling Minna to aid in some of their own
personal matters.

Slowly enumerating the articles they came to the piano.  Averil went
up to it, leant fondly against it, and softly touched the keys.  'My
own,' she said, 'bought for a surprise to me when I came home from
school!  And oh, how he loved it!'

'Every one had reason to love it,' said Tom, in a low voice; but she
did not heed or hear.

'I cannot--cannot part with it!  When I sit here, I can almost feel
him leaning over me!  You must go--I will pay your expenses myself!
I wonder if we should have such rough roads as would hurt you,' she
added, caressingly toying with the notes, and bringing soft replies
from them, as if she were conversing with a living thing.

'Ah!' said Tom, coming nearer, 'you will, I hope, take care to what
your brother's impetuosity might expose either this, or yourself.'

'We shall all fare alike,' she said, carelessly.

'But how?' said Tom.

'Henry will take care of that.'

'Do you know, Miss Ward, I came down here with the purpose of setting
some matters before your brother that might dissuade him from making
the United States his home.  You have justly more influence than I.
Will you object to hear them from me?'

Ave could not imagine why Tom May, of all people in the world, should
thrust himself into the discussion of her plans; but she could only
submit to listen, or more truly to lean back with wandering thoughts
and mechanical signs of assent, as he urged his numerous objections.
Finally, she uttered a meek 'Thank you,' in the trust that it was
over.

'And will you try to make your brother consider these things?'

Poor Ave could not have stood an examination on 'these things,' and
feeling inadequate to undertake the subject, merely said something of
'very kind, but she feared it would be of no use.'

'I assure you, if you would persuade him to talk it over with me,
that I could show him that he would involve you all in what would be
most distasteful.'

'Thank you, but his mind is made up.  No other course is open.'

'Could he not, at least, go and see what he thinks of it, before
taking you and your sisters?'

'Impossible!' said Averil.  'We must all keep together; we have no
one else.'

'No, indeed, you must not say that,' cried Tom, with a fire that
startled Averil in the midst of her languid, dreary indifference.

'I did not mean,' she said, 'to be ungrateful for the kindness of
your family--the Doctor and dear Mary, above all; but you must know-'

'I know,' he interrupted, 'that I cannot see you exiling yourself
with your brother, because you think you have no one else to turn to
--you, who are so infinitely dear--'

'This is no time for satire,' she said, drawing aside with offence,
but still wearily, and as if she had not given attention enough to
understand him.

'You mistake me,' he exclaimed; 'I mean that no words can tell how
strong the feeling is that--that--No, I never knew its force till
now; but, Averil, I cannot part with you--you who are all the world
to me.'

Lifting her heavy eyelids for a moment, she looked bewildered, and
then, moving towards the door, said, 'I don't know whether this is
jest or earnest--any way, it is equally unsuitable.'

'What do you see in me,' cried Tom, throwing himself before her,
'that you should suppose me capable of jesting on such a subject, at
such a moment?'

'I never saw anything but supercilious irony,' she answered, in the
same dreamy, indifferent way, as if hardly aware what she was saying,
and still moving on.

'I cannot let you go thus.  You must hear me,' he cried, and he
wheeled round an easy-chair, with a gesture of entreaty; which she
obeyed, partly because she was hardly alive to understand his drift,
partly because she could scarcely stand; and there she sat, in the
same drowsy resignation with which she had listened to his former
expostulation.

Calm collected Tom was almost beside himself.  'Averil!  Averil!' he
cried, as he sat down opposite and bent as close to her as possible,
'if I could only make you listen or believe me!  What shall I say?
It is only the honest truth that you are the dearest thing in the
whole world to me!  The very things that have given you most offence
arose from my struggles with my own feelings.  I tried to crush what
would have its way in spite of me, and now you see its force.'  He
saw greater life and comprehension in her eye as he spoke, but the
look was not encouraging; and he continued: 'How can I make you
understand!  Oh! if I had but more time!--but--but it was only the
misery of those moments that showed me why it was that I was always
irresistibly drawn to you, and yet made instinctive efforts to break
the spell; and now you will not understand.'

'I do understand,' said Averil, at length entirely roused, but
chiefly by resentment.  'I understand how much a country surgeon's
daughter is beneath an M. D.'s attention, and how needful it was to
preserve the distance by marks of contempt.  As a convict's sister,
the distance is so much widened, that it is well for both that we
shall never meet again.'

Therewith she had risen, and moved to the door.  'Nay, nay,' he
cried; 'it is for that very reason that all my past absurdity is
trampled on!  I should glory in a connection with such as Leonard!
Yes, Averil,' as he fancied he saw her touched, 'you have never known
me yet; but trust yourself and him to me, and you will give him a
true brother, proud of his nobleness.  You shall see him constantly--
you shall keep your sisters with you.  Only put yourself in my hands,
and you shall know what devotion is.'

He would have said more, but Averil recalled herself, and said: 'This
is mere folly; you would be very sorry, were I to take you at your
word.  It would be unworthy in me towards your father, towards Henry,
towards you, for me to listen to you, even if I liked you, and that
you have taken good care to prevent me from doing.'  And she opened
the door, and made her way into the hall.

'But, Averil!--Miss Ward!' he continued, pursuing her, 'if, as I
swear I will, I track out the real offender, bring him to justice,
proclaim Leonard's innocence?  Then--'

She was half-way up the stairs.  He had no alternative but to take
his hat and stride off in a tumult of dismay, first of all at the
rejection, and next at his own betrayal of himself.  Had he guessed
what it would come to, would he ever have trusted himself in that
drawing-room?  This was the meaning of it all, was it?  He, the
sensible man of the family, not only to be such an egregious ass, but
to have made such a fool of himself!  For he was as furious at having
committed himself to himself, as he was at his avowal to Averil--he,
who had always been certain of loving so wisely and so well, choosing
an example of the true feminine balance of excellence, well born, but
not too grand for the May pretensions; soundly religious, but not
philanthropically pious; of good sense and ability enough for his
comfort, but not of overgrown genius for his discomfort; of good
looks enough for satisfaction, but not for dangerous admiration; of
useful, but not overwhelming wealth; of creditable and not
troublesome kindred--that he should find himself plunged headlong
into love by those brown eyes and straight features, by the musical
genius, talents anything but domestic, ill-regulated enthusiasm, nay,
dislike to himself, in the very girl whose station and family he
contemned at the best, and at the very time when her brother was a
convict, and her sisters dependent!  Was he crazed?  Was he
transformed?  What frenzy had come over him to endear her the more
for being the reverse of his ideal?  And, through all, his very heart
was bursting at the thought of the wounds be had given her in his
struggles against the net of fascination.  He had never imagined the
extent of the provocation he gave; and in truth, his habitual manner
was such, that it was hard to distinguish between irony and genuine
interest.  And now it was too late!  What should he be henceforth to
her?  What would Stoneborough and his future be to him?  He would, he
believed, have taught himself to acquiesce, had he seen any chance of
happiness before her; but the picture he drew of her prospects
justified his misery, at being only able to goad her on, instead of
drawing her back.  He was absolutely amazed at himself.  He had
spoken only the literal truth, when he said that he had been
unconscious of the true nature of the feelings that always drew him
towards her, though only to assert his independence, and make
experiments by teasing in his ironically courteous way.  Not until
the desolate indifference of her tone had incited him to show her
that Henry was not all that remained to her, had he arrived at the
perception that, in the late weeks of anxiety, she had grown into his
heart, and that it was of no use to argue the point with himself, or
think what he would do, the fact was accomplished--his first love was
a direct contradiction to his fixed opinions, he had offended her
irrevocably and made a fool of himself, and she was going away to
dreariness!

At first he had rushed off into the melancholy meadows, among the
sodden hay-cocks still standing among the green growth of grass; but
a shower, increasing the damp forlornness of the ungenial day, made
him turn homewards.  When, late in the afternoon, Ethel came into the
schoolroom for some Cocksmoor stores, she found him leaning over his
books on the table.  This was his usual place for study; and she did
not at once perceive that the attitude was only assumed on her
entrance, so kneeling in front of her cupboard, she asked, 'What
success?'

'I have not seen him.'

'Oh! I thought I saw you going--'

'Never mind!  I mean,' he added with some confusion, 'I wish for a
little peace.  I have a horrid headache.'

'You!' exclaimed Ethel; and turning round, she saw him leaning back
in his chair, a defenceless animal without his spectacles, his eyes
small and purpled ringed, his hair tossed about, his spruceness gone.
'I am sure you are not well,' she said.

'Quite well.  Nonsense, I only want quiet.'

'Let me give you some of Aubrey's camphor liniment.'

'Thank you,' submitting to a burning application to his brow; but as
she lingered in anxiety, 'I really want nothing but quiet.'

How like Norman he looks! thought Ethel, as she cast her last glance
and departed.  Can he be going to be ill?  If he would only tell when
anything is the matter!  I know papa says that some of us feel with
our bodies, and some with our minds; but then I never knew Tom much
affected any way, and what is all this to him?  And a sigh betrayed
the suppressed heartache that underlaid all her sensations.  I am
afraid it must be illness; but any way, he will neither tell nor bear
to have it noticed, so I can only watch.

Enter the two little Wards, with a message that Ave was sorry, but
that she was too much tired to come that evening; and when Mary
regretted not having been able to come and help her, Ella answered
that 'Mr. Tom had come and helped her for a long time.'

'Yes,' said Minna; 'but I think he must have done it all wrong, for,
do you know, I found the list he had made torn up into little bits.

Ethel almost visibly started, almost audibly exclaimed.  At tea-time
Tom appeared, his trimness restored, but not his usual colouring; and
Ella hailed him with reproaches for having gone away without telling
her.  The soft attention of which the child had a monopoly did not
fail, though he bent down, trying to keep her to himself, and prevent
their colloquy from attracting notice; but they were so close behind
Ethel's chair, that she could not help hearing: 'We were only gone to
dig up the violets that you are to have, and if you had only stayed
you would have seen Henry, for he came in by the little gate, and
when I went to tell you, you were gone.'

Ethel wondered whether the blushes she felt burning all over her face
and neck would be remarked by those before her, or would reveal to
Tom, behind her, that the child was giving her the key to his
mystery.  Marvelling at the exemplary gentleness and patience of his
replies to his little coquettish tormentor, she next set herself to
relieve him by a summons to Ella to tea and cherries.  Fortunately
the fruit suggested Dr. May's reminiscences of old raids on cherry
orchards now a mere name, and he thus engrossed all the younger
audience not entirely preoccupied.  He set himself to make the little
guests forget all their sorrows, as if he could not help warming them
for the last time in the magic of his own sunshine; but Ethel heard
and saw little but one figure in the quietest corner of the room, a
figure at which she scarcely dared to look.

'And there you are!' so went her thoughts.  'It is true then!  Fairly
caught!  Your lofty crest vailed at last--and at such a time!  O,
Tom, generous and true-hearted, in spite of all your nonsense!  How
could she help being touched?  In the net and against his will!  Oh,
triumph of womanhood!  I am so glad!  No, I'm not, it is best this
way, for what an awkward mess it would have been!  She is dear
Leonard's sister, to be sure, and there is stuff in her, but papa
does not take to her, and I don't know whether she would fit in with
Tom himself!  But oh! the fun it would have been to see Flora's
horror at finding her one prudent brother no better than the rest of
us!  Dear old Tom!  The May heart has been too strong for the old
Professor nature!  What a retribution for his high mightiness!  Harry
and Richard to be guarded from making fools of themselves!  What a
nice cloak for jealousy!  But it is no laughing matter!  How
miserable, how thoroughly upset, he is!  Poor dear Tom!  If I could
only go and kiss you, and tell you that I never loved you half so
well; but you would rather die than let out one word, I know!  Why,
any one of the others would have had it all out long ago!  And I
don't know whether it is quite safe to screen the lamp from those
aching eyes that are bearing it like a martyr!  There!  Well, maybe
he will just stand the knowing that I know, provided I don't say a
word; but I wish people would not be so "self-contained!"'

Self-contained Tom still continued in the morning, though looking
sallow and wan; but, in a political argument with his father, he was
snappish and overbearing, and in the course of the day gave another
indication of being thrown off his balance, which was even harder for
Ethel to endure.

Throughout the suspense on Leonard's account, Aubrey had been a
source of anxiety to all, especially to Tom.  The boy's sensitive
frame had been so much affected, that tender dealings with him were
needful, and all compulsion had been avoided. His father had caused
him to be put on the sick-list of the volunteers; and as for his
studies, though the books were daily brought out, it was only to
prevent the vacuum of idleness; and Tom had made it his business to
nurse his brother's powers, avoid all strain on the attention, and
occupy without exciting, bearing with his fitful moods of despondence
or of hope, whether they took the form of talking or of dreaming.

But now that all was over, every one knew that it was time to turn
over a new leaf; and Tom, with his sore heart, did it with a
vengeance, and on the first instance of carelessness, fell on the
poor family pet, as a younger brother and legitimate souffre douleur,
with vehemence proportioned to his own annoyance.  It was a fierce
lecture upon general listlessness, want of manliness, spirit, and
perseverance, indifference to duties he had assumed.  Nonsense about
feelings--a fellow was not worth the snap of a finger who could not
subdue his feelings--trash.

The sisters heard the storm from the drawing-room, and Gertrude grew
hotly indignant, and wanted Ethel to rush in to the rescue; but
Ethel, though greatly moved, knew that female interposition only
aggravated such matters, and restrained herself and her sister till
she heard Tom stride off.  Then creeping in on tiptoe, she found the
boy sitting stunned and confounded by the novelty of the thing.

'What can it be all about, Ethel?  I never had such a slanging in my
life?'

'I don't think Tom is quite well.  He had a bad headache last night.'

Then I hope--I mean, I think--he must have made it worse!  I know
mine aches, as if I had been next door to the great bell;' and he
leant against his sister.

'I am afraid you really were inattentive.'

'No worse than since the heart has gone out of everything.  But that
was not all!  Ethel, can it really be a disgrace, and desertion, and
all that, if I don't go on with those volunteers, when it makes me
sick to think of touching my rifle?' and his eyes filled with tears.

'It would be a great effort, I know,' said Ethel, smoothing his hair;
'but after all, you volunteered not for pleasure, but because your
country wanted defence.'

'The country?  I don't care for it, since it condemned him, when he
was serving it.'

'He would not say that, Aubrey!  He would only be vexed to hear that
you gave in, and were fickle to your undertaking.  Indeed, if I were
the volunteer, I should think it due to him, not to shrink as if I
were ashamed of what he was connected with.'

Aubrey tried to answer her sweet high-spirited smile, but he had been
greatly hurt and distressed, and the late reproach to his manhood
embittered his tears without making it easier to repress them; and
pushing away his chair, he darted up-stairs.

'Poor dear fellow!  I've been very hard on him, and only blamed
instead of comforting,' thought Ethel sadly, as she slowly entered
the passage, 'what shall I think of, to make a break for both of
those two?'

'So you have been cockering your infant,' said Tom, meeting her.
'You mean to keep him a baby all his life.'

'Tom, I want to talk to you,' said she.

In expectation of her displeasure, he met it half way, setting his
back against the passage wall, and dogmatically declaring, 'You'll be
the ruin of him if you go on in this way!  How is he ever to go
through the world if you are to be always wiping his tears with an
embroidered pocket-handkerchief, and cossetting him up like a blessed
little sucking lamb?'

'Of course he must rough it,' said Ethel, setting her back against
the opposite wall; 'I only want him to be hardened; but after a shock
like this, one cannot go on as if one was a stock or stake.  Even a
machine would have its wheels out of order--'

'Well, well, but it is time that should be over.'

'So it is;' and as the sudden thought flashed on her, 'Tom, I want
you to reconsider your journey, that you gave up in the spring, and
take him--'

'I don't want to go anywhere,' he wearily said.

'Only it would be so good for him,' said Ethel earnestly; 'he really
ought to see something taller than the Minster tower, and you are the
only right person to take him, you are so kind to him.'

'For instance?' he said, smiling.

'Accidents will happen in the best regulated families; besides, he
did want shaking up.  I dare say he will be the better for it.
There's the dinner-bell.'

To her surprise, she found his arm round her waist, and a kiss on her
brow.  'I thought I should have caught it,' he said; 'you are not
half a fool of a sister after all.'

Aubrey was not in the dining-room; and after having carved, Tom, in
some compunction, was going to look for him, when he made his
appearance in his uniform.

'Oho!' said the Doctor, surprised.

'There's to be a grand parade with the Whitford division,' he
answered; and no more was said.

Not till the eight o'clock twilight of the dripping August evening
did the family reassemble.  Ethel had been preparing for a journey
that Mary and Gertrude were to make to Maplewood; and she did not
come down till her father had returned, when following him into the
drawing-room, she heard his exclamation, 'Winter again!'

For the fire was burning, Tom was sitting crumpled over it, with his
feet on the fender, and his elbows on his knees, and Aubrey in his
father's arm-chair, his feet over the side, so fast asleep that
neither entrance nor exclamation roused him; the room was pervaded
with an odour of nutmeg and port wine, and a kettle, a decanter, and
empty tumblers told tales.  Now the Doctor was a hardy and abstemious
man, of a water-drinking generation; and his wife's influence had
further tended to make him--indulgent as he was--scornful of whatever
savoured of effeminacy or dissipation, so his look and tone were
sharp, and disregardful of Aubrey's slumbers.

'We got wet through,' said Tom; 'he was done up, had a shivering fit,
and I tried to prevent mischief.'

'Hm! said the Doctor, not mollified.  'Cold is always the excuse.
But another time don't teach your brother to make this place like a
fast man's rooms.'

Ethel was amazed at Tom's bearing this so well.  With the slightest
possible wrinkle of the skin of his forehead, he took up the decanter
and carried it off to the cellaret.

'How that boy sleeps!' said his father, looking at him.

'He has had such bad nights!' said Ethel.  'Don't be hard on Tom, he
is very good about such things, and would not have done it without
need.  He is so careful of Aubrey!'

'Too careful by half,' said the Doctor, smiling placably as his son
returned.  'You are all in a league to spoil that youngster.  He
would be better if you would not try your hand on his ailments, but
would knock him about.'

'I never do that without repenting it,' said Tom; then, after a
pause, 'It is not spirit that is wanting, but you would have been
frightened yourself at his state of exhaustion.'

'Of collapse, don't you mean?' said the Doctor, with a little lurking
smile.  'However, it is vexatious enough; he had been gaining ground
all the year, and now he is regularly beaten down again.'

'Suppose I was to take him for a run on the Continent?'

'What, tired of the hospital?'

'A run now and then is duty, not pleasure,' replied Tom, quietly;
while Ethel burnt to avert from him these consequences of his
peculiar preference for appearing selfish.

'So much for railway days!  That will be a new doctrine at
Stoneborough.  Well, where do you want to go?'

'I don't want to go anywhere.'

Ethel would not have wondered to see him more sullen than he looked
at that moment.  It was lamentable that those two never could
understand each other, and that either from Tom's childish faults,
his resemblance to his grandfather, or his habitual reserve, Dr. May
was never free from a certain suspicion of ulterior motives on his
part.  She was relieved at the influx of the rest of the party,
including Richard; and Aubrey wakening, was hailed with
congratulations on the soundness of his sleep, whilst she looked at
Tom with a meaning smile as she saw her father quietly feel the boy's
hand and brow.  The whole family were always nursing the lad, and
scolding one another for it.

Tom had put himself beside Ethel, under the shade of her urn, and she
perceived that he was ill at ease, probably uncertain whether any
confidences had been bestowed on her or Mary from the other side.
There was no hope that the topic would be avoided, for Richard began
with inquiries for Averil.

'She is working herself to death,' said Mary, sadly; 'but she says it
suits her.'

'And it does,' said the Doctor; 'she is stronger every day.  There is
nothing really the matter with her.'

'Contrary blasts keep a ship upright,' said Gertrude, 'and she has
them in abundance.  We found her in the midst of six people, all
giving diametrically opposite advice.'

'Dr. Spencer was really helping, and Mr. Wright was there about his
own affairs,' said Ethel, in a tone of repression.

'And Mrs. Ledwich wanted her to settle on the Ohio to assist the
runaway slaves,' continued Gertrude.

'It does not tease her as if she heard it,' said Mary.

'No,' said the Doctor, 'she moves about like one in a dream, and has
no instinct but to obey her brother.'

'Well, I am glad to be going,' said Daisy; 'it will be flat when all
the excitement is over, and we have not the fun of seeing Tom getting
rises out of Ave Ward.'

This time Tom could not repress a sudden jerk, and Ethel silenced her
sister by a hint that such references were not nice when people were
in trouble.

'By the bye,' said Aubrey, 'speaking of going away, what were you
saying while I was asleep? or was it a dream that I was looking
through Tom's microscope at a rifle bullet in the Tyrol?'

'An inspiration from Tom's brew,' said the Doctor.

'Weren't you saying anything?' said Aubrey, eagerly.  'I'm sure there
was something about duty and pleasure.  Were you really talking of
it?'

'Tom was, and if it is to put some substance into those long useless
legs, I don't care if you do start off.'

Aubrey flashed into a fresh being.  He had just been reading a book
about the Tyrol, and Tom not caring at all where they were to go,
this gave the direction.  Aubrey rushed to borrow a continental
Bradshaw from Dr. Spencer, and the plan rapidly took form; with eager
suggestions thrown in by every one, ending with the determination to
start on the next Monday morning.

'That's settled,' said Tom, wearily, when he and Ethel, as often
happened, had lingered behind the rest; 'only, Ethel, there's one
thing.  You must keep your eye on the Vintry Mill, and fire off a
letter to me if the fellow shows any disposition to bolt.'

'If I can possibly find out--'

'Keep your eyes open; and then Hazlitt has promised to let me know if
that cheque of Bilson's is cashed.  If I am away, telegraph, and
meantime set my father on the scent.  It may not hang that dog
himself, but it may save Leonard.'

'Oh, if it would come!'

'And meantime--silence, you know--'

'Very well;' then lingering, 'Tom, I am sure you did the right thing
by Aubrey, and so was papa afterwards.'

His brow darkened for a moment, but shaking it off he said, 'I'll do
my best for your cosset lamb, and bring him back in condition.'

'Thank you; I had rather trust him with you than any one.'

'And how is it that no one proposes a lark for you, old Ethel?' said
Tom, holding her so as to study her face.  'You look awfully elderly
and ragged.'

'Oh, I'm going to be left alone with the Doctor, and that will be the
greatest holiday I ever had.'

'I suppose it is to you,' said Tom, with a deep heavy sigh, perhaps
glad to have some ostensible cause for sighing.

'Dear Tom, when you are living here, and working with him--'

'Ah--h!' he said almost with disgust, 'don't talk of slavery to me
before my time.  How I hate it, and everything else!  Good night!'

'Poor Tom!' thought Ethel.  'I wish papa knew him better and would
not goad him.  Will Averil ever wake to see what she has done, and
feel for him?  Though I don't know why I should wish two people to be
unhappy instead of one, and there is weight enough already.  O,
Leonard, I wonder if your one bitter affliction will shield you from
the others that may be as trying, and more tempting!'




CHAPTER XVIII



All bright hopes and hues of day
Have faded into twilight gray.--Christian Year


'No fear of Aubrey's failing,' said Tom; 'he has a better foundation
than nine-tenths of the lads that go up, and he is working like a
man.'

'He always did work heartily,' said Ethel, 'and with pleasure in his
work.'

'Ay, like a woman.'

'Like a scholar.'

'A scholar is a kind of woman.  A man, when he's a boy, only works
because he can't help it, and afterwards for what he can get by it.'

'For what he can do with it would have a worthier sound.'

'Sound or sense, it is all the same.'

'Scaffolding granted, what is the building?'

Tom apparently thought it would be working like a woman to give
himself the trouble of answering; and Ethel went on in her own mind,
'For the work's own sake--for what can be got by it--for what can be
done with it--because it can't be helped--are--these all the springs
of labour here?  Then how is work done in that solitary cell?  Is it
because it can't be helped, or is it 'as the Lord's freeman'?  And
when he can hear of Aubrey's change, will he take it as out of his
love, or grieve for having been the cause?'

For the change had been working in Aubrey ever since Leonard had
altered his career.  The boy was at a sentimental age, and had the
susceptibility inseparable from home breeding; his desire to become a
clergyman had been closely connected with the bright visions of the
happy days at Coombe, and had begun to wane with the first thwarting
of Leonard's plans; and when the terrible catastrophe of the one
friend's life occurred, the other became alienated from all that they
had hoped to share together.  Nor could even Dr. May's household be
so wholly exempt from the spirit of the age, that Aubrey was not
aware of the strivings and trials of faith at the University.  He saw
what Harvey Anderson was, and knew what was passing in the world; and
while free from all doubts, shrank boyishly from the investigations
that he fancied might excite them.  Or perhaps these fears of
possible scruples were merely his self-justification for gratifying
his reluctance.

At any rate, he came home from his two months' tour, brown, robust,
with revived spirits, but bent on standing an examination for the
academy at Woolwich.  He had written about it several times before
his return, and his letters were, as his father said, 'so appallingly
sensible that perhaps he would change his mind.'  But it was not
changed when he came home; and Ethel, though sorely disappointed, was
convinced by her own sense as well as by Richard's prudence, that
interference was dangerous.  No one in Israel was to go forth to the
wars of the Lord save those who 'willingly offered themselves;' and
though grieved that her own young knight should be one of the many
champions unwilling to come forth in the Church's cause, she
remembered the ordeal to Norman's faith, and felt that the exertion
of her influence was too great a responsibility.

'You don't like this,' said Tom, after a pause.  'It is not my doing,
you know.'

'No, I did not suppose it was,' said Ethel.  'You would not withhold
any one in these days of exceeding want of able clergymen.'

'I told him it would be a grief at home,' added Tom, 'but when a lad
gets into that desperate mood, he always may be a worse grief if you
thwart him; and I give you credit, Ethel, you have not pulled the
curb.'

'Richard told me not.'

'Richard represents the common sense of the family when I am not at
home.'

Tom was going the next day to his course of study at the London
hospitals, and this--the late afternoon--was the first time that he
and his sister had been alone together.  He had been for some little
time having these short jerks of conversation, beginning and breaking
off rather absently.  At last he said, 'Do those people ever write?'

'Prisoners, do you mean?  Not for three months.'

'No--exiles.'

'Mary has heard twice.'

He held out Mary's little leathern writing-case to her.

'O, Tom!'

'It is only Mary.'

Ethel accepted the plea, aware that there could be no treason between
herself and Mary, and moreover that the letters had been read by all
the family.  She turned the key, looked them out, and standing by the
window to catch the light, began to read--

'You need not be afraid, kind Mary,' wrote Averil, on the first days
of her voyage; 'I am quite well, as well as a thing can be whose
heart is dried up.  I am hardened past all feeling, and seem to be
made of India-rubber.  Even my colour has returned--how I hate to see
it, and to hear people say my roses will surprise the delicate
Americans.  Fancy, in a shop in London I met an old school-fellow,
who was delighted to see me, talked like old times, and insisted on
knowing where we were staying.  I used to be very fond of her, but it
was as if I had been dead and was afraid she would find out I was a
ghost, yet I talked quite indifferently, and never faltered in my
excuses.  When we embarked, it was no use to know it was the last of
England, where _he_ and you and home and life were left.  How I
envied the poor girl, who was crying as if her heart would break!'

On those very words, broke the announcement of Mr. Cheviot.  Tom
coolly held out his hand for the letters, so much as a matter of
course, that Ethel complied with his gesture, and he composedly
pocketed them, while she felt desperately guilty.  Mary's own
entrance would have excited no compunction, Ethel would have said
that Tom wanted to hear of the voyage; but in the present case, she
could only blush, conscious that the guest recognized her sister's
property, and was wondering what business she had with it, and she
was unwilling to explain, not only on Tom's account, but because she
knew that Mr. Cheviot greatly disapproved of petitioning against the
remission of capital sentences, and thought her father under a
delusion.

After Tom's departure the next day, she found the letters in her
work-basket, and restored them to Mary, laughing over Mr. Cheviot's
evident resentment at the detection of her doings.

'I think it looked rather funny,' said Mary.

'I beg your pardon,' said Ethel, much astonished; 'but I thought, as
every one else had seen them--'

'Tom always laughed at poor Ave.'

'He is very different now; but indeed, Mary, I am sorry, since you
did not like it.'

'Oh!' cried Mary, discomfited by Ethel's apology, 'indeed I did not
mean that, I wish I had not said anything.  You know you are welcome
to do what you please with all I have.  Only,' she recurred, 'you
can't wonder that Mr. Cheviot thought it funny.'

'If he had any call to think at all,' said Ethel, who was one of
those who thought that Charles Cheviot had put a liberal
interpretation on Dr. May's welcome to Stoneborough.  He had arrived
after the summer holidays as second master of the school, and at
Christmas was to succeed Dr. Hoxton, who had been absolutely
frightened from his chair by the commissions of inquiry that had
beset the Whichcote foundation; and in compensation was at present
perched on the highest niche sacred to conservative martyrdom in Dr.
May's loyal heart.

Charles Cheviot was a very superior man, who had great influence with
young boys, and was admirably fitted to bring about the much required
reformation in the school.  He came frequently to discuss his
intentions with Dr. May, and his conversation was well worth being
listened to; but even the Doctor found three evenings in a week a
large allowance for good sense and good behaviour--the evenings
treated as inviolable even by old friends like Dr. Spencer and Mr.
Wilmot, the fast waning evenings of Aubrey's home life.

The rest were reduced to silence, chess, books, and mischief, except
when a treat of facetious small talk was got up for their benefit.
Any attempt of the ladies to join in the conversation was replied to
with a condescending levity that reduced Ethel to her girlhood's
awkward sense of forwardness and presumption; Mary was less
disconcerted, because her remarks were never so aspiring, and Harry's
wristbands sufficed her; but the never-daunted Daisy rebelled openly,
related the day's events to her papa, fearless of any presence, and
when she had grown tired of the guest's regular formula of expecting
to meet Richard, she told him that the adult school always kept
Richard away in the winter evenings; 'But if you want to see him, he
is always to be found at Cocksmoor, and he would be very glad of
help.'

'Did he express any such wish?' said Mr. Cheviot, looking rather
puzzled.

'Oh dear, no; only I thought you had so much time on your hands.'

'Oh no--oh no!' exclaimed Mary, in great confusion, 'Gertrude did not
mean--I am sure I don't know what she was thinking of.'

And at the first opportunity, Mary, for once in her life,
administered to Gertrude a richly-deserved reproof for sauciness and
contempt of improving conversation; but the consequence was a fancy
of the idle younglings to make Mary accountable for the 'infesting of
their evenings,' and as she was always ready to afford sport to the
household, they thus obtained a happy outlet for their drollery and
discontent, and the imputation was the more comical from his apparent
indifference and her serene composure; until one evening when, as the
bell rung, and mutterings passed between Aubrey and Gertrude, of 'Day
set,' and 'Cheviot's mountains lone,' the head of the family, for the
first time, showed cognizance of the joke, and wearily taking down
his slippered feet from their repose, said, 'Lone! yes, there's the
rub!  I shall have to fix days of reception if Mary will insist on
being so attractive.'

Mary, with an instinct that she was blamed, began to be very sorry,
but broke off amid peals of merriment, and blushes that were less
easily extinguished; and which caused Ethel to tell each of the young
ones privately, that their sport was becoming boy and frog work, and
she would have no more of it.  The Daisy was inclined to be restive;
but Ethel told her that many people thought this kind of fun could
never be safe or delicate.  'I have always said that it might be
quite harmless, if people knew where to stop--now show me that I am
right.'

And to Aubrey she put the question, whether he would like to
encourage Daisy in being a nineteenth-century young lady without
reticence?

However, as Mary heard no more of their mischievous wit, Ethel was
quite willing to let them impute to herself a delusion that the
schoolmaster was smitten with Mary, and to laugh with them in private
over all the ridiculous things they chose to say.

At last Flora insisted on Ethel's coming with her to make a distant
call, and, as soon as they were in the carriage, said, 'It was not
only for the sake of Mrs. Copeland, though it is highly necessary you
should go, but it is the only way of ever speaking to you, and I want
to know what all this is about Mary?'

'The children have not been talking their nonsense to you!'

'No one ever talks nonsense to me--intentionally, I mean--not even
you, Ethel; I wish you did.  But I hear it is all over the town.
George has been congratulated, and so have I, and one does not like
contradicting only to eat it up again.'

'You always did hear everything before it was true, Flora.'

'Then is it going to be true?'

'O, Flora, can it be possible?' said Ethel, with a startled,
astonished look.

'Possible!  Highly obvious and proper, as it seems to me.  The only
doubt in my mind was whether it were not too obvious to happen.'

'He is always coming in,' said Ethel, 'but I never thought it was
really for that mischief!  The children only laugh about it as the
most preposterous thing they can think of, for he never speaks to a
woman if he can help it.'

'That may not prevent him from wanting a good wife.'

'Wanting a wife--ay, as he would want a housekeeper, just because he
has got to the proper position for it; but is he to go and get our
bonny Mary in that way, just for an appendage to the mastership?'

'Well done, old Ethel!  I'm glad to see you so like yourself.  I
remember when we thought Mrs. Hoxton's position very sublime.'

'I never thought of positions!'

'Never!  I know that very well; and I am not thinking of it now,
except as an adjunct to a very worthy man, whom Mary will admire to
the depths of her honest heart, and who will make her very happy.'

'Yes, I suppose if she once begins to like him, that he will,' said
Ethel, slowly; 'but I can't bring myself to swallow it yet.  She has
never given in to his being a bore, but I thought that was her
universal benevolence; and he says less to her than to any one.'

'Depend upon it, he thinks he is proceeding selon les regles.'

'Then he ought to be flogged!  Has he any business to think of my
Mary, without falling red-hot in love with her?  Why, Hector was
regularly crazy that last half-year; and dear old Polly is worth ever
so much more than Blanche.'

'I must say you have fulfilled my desire of hearing you talk
nonsense, Ethel.  Mary would never think of those transports.'

'She deserves them all the more.'

'Well, she is the party most concerned, though she will be a cruel
loss to all of us.'

'She will not go far, if--'

'Yes, but she will be the worse loss.  You simple Ethel, you don't
think that Charles Cheviot will let her be the dear family fag we
have always made of her?'

'Oh no--that always was wrong.'

'And living close by, she will not come on a visit, all festal, to
resume home habits.  No, you must make up your mind, Ethel--_if,_ as
you say, _if_--he will be a man for monopolies, and he will resent
anything that he thinks management from you.  I suspect it is a real
sign of the love that you deny, that he has ventured on the sister of
a clever woman, living close by, and a good deal looked up to.'

'Flora, Flora, you should not make one wicked.  If she is to be
happy, why can't you let me rejoice freely, and only have her drawn
off from me bit by bit, in the right way of nature?'

'I did not tell you to make you dislike it--of course not.  Only I
thought that a little tact, a little dexterity, might prevent Charles
Cheviot from being so much afraid of you, as if he saw at once how
really the head of the family you are.'

'Nonsense, Flora, I am no such thing.  If I am domineering, the
sooner any one sees it and takes me down the better.  If this does
come, I will try to behave as I ought, and not to mind so Mary is
happy; but I can't act, except just as the moment leads me.  I hope
it will soon be over, now you have made me begin to believe in it.
I am afraid it will spoil Harry's pleasure at home!  Poor dear Harry,
what will he do?'

'When does he come?'

'Any day now; he could not quite tell when he could get away.

When they came back, and Dr. May ran out to say, 'Can you come in.
Flora? we want you,' the sisters doubted whether his excitement were
due to the crisis, or to the arrival.  He hurried them into the
study, and shut the door, exulting and perplexed.  'You girls leave
one no rest,' he said.  'Here I have had this young Cheviot telling
me that the object of his attentions has been apparent.  I'm sure I
did not know if it were Mab or one of you.  I thought he avoided all
alike; and poor Mary was so taken by surprise that she will do
nothing but cry, and say, "No, never;" and when I tell her she shall
do as she pleases, she cries the more; or if I ask her if I am to say
Yes, she goes into ecstasies of crying!  I wish one of you would go
up, and see if you can do anything with her.'

'Is he about the house?' asked Flora, preparing to obey.

'No--I was obliged to tell him that she must have time, and he is
gone home.  I am glad he should have a little suspense--he seemed to
make so certain of her.  Did he think he was making love all the time
he was boring me with his gas in the dormitories?  I hope she will
serve him out!'

'He will not be the worse for not being a lady's man,' said Flora, at
the door.

But in ten minutes, Flora returned with the same report of nothing
but tears; and she was obliged to leave the party to their
perplexity, and drive home; while Ethel went in her turn to use all
manner of pleas to her sister to cheer up, know her own mind, and be
sure that they only wished to guess what would make her happiest.  To
console or to scold were equally unsuccessful, and after attempting
all varieties of treatment, bracing or tender, Ethel found that the
only approach to calm was produced by the promise that she should be
teased no more that evening, but be left quite alone to recover, and
cool her burning eyes and aching head.  So, lighting her fire,
shaking up a much-neglected easy-chair, bathing her eves, desiring
her not to come down to tea, and engaging both that Gertrude should
not behold her, and that papa would not be angry, provided that she
tried to know what she really wished, and be wiser on the morrow,
Ethel left her.  The present concern was absolutely more to persuade
her to give an answer of some sort, than what that answer should be.
Ethel would not wish; Dr. May had very little doubt; and Gertrude,
from whom there was no concealing the state of affairs, observed, 'If
she cries so much the first time she has to know her own mind, it
shows she can't do without some one to do it for her.'

The evening passed in expeditions of Ethel's to look after her
patient, and in desultory talk on all that was probable and
improbable between Dr. May and the younger ones, until just as Ethel
was coming down at nine o'clock with the report that she had
persuaded Mary to go to bed, she was startled by the street door
being opened as far as the chain would allow, and a voice calling,
'I say, is any one there to let me in?'

'Harry!  O, Harry! I'm coming;' and she had scarcely had time to shut
the door previous to taking down the chain, before the three others
were in the hall, the tumult of greetings breaking forth.

'But where's Polly?' he asked, as soon as he was free to look round
them all.

'Going to bed with a bad headache,' was the answer, with which Daisy
had sense enough not to interfere; and the sailor had been brought
into the drawing-room, examined on his journey, and offered supper,
before he returned to the charge.

'Nothing really the matter with Mary, I hope?'

'Oh! no--nothing.'

'Can't I go up and see her?'

'Not just at present,' said Ethel.  'I will see how she is when she
is in bed, but if she is going to sleep, we had better not disturb
her.'

'Harry thinks she must sleep better for the sight of him,' said the
Doctor; 'but it is a melancholy business.--Harry, your nose is out
of joint.'

'Who is it?' said Harry, gravely.

'Ah! you have chosen a bad time to come home.  We shall know no
comfort till it is over.'

'Who?' cried Harry; 'no nonsense, Gertrude, I can't stand guessing.'

This was directed to Gertrude, who was only offending by pursed lips
and twinkling eyes, because he could not fall foul of his father.
Dr. May took pity, and answered at once.

'Cheviot!' cried Harry.  'Excellent!  He always did know how to get
the best of everything.  Polly turning into a Mrs. Hoxton.  Ha! ha!
Well, that is a relief to my mind.'

'You did look rather dismayed, certainly.  What were you afraid of?'

'Why, when that poor young Leonard Ward's business was in the papers,
a messmate of mine was asked if we were not all very much interested,
because of some attachment between some of us.  I thought he must
mean me or Tom, for I was tremendously smitten with that sweet pretty
girl, and I used to be awfully jealous of Tom, but when I heard of
Mary going to bed with a headache, and that style of thing, I began
to doubt, and I couldn't stand her taking up with such a dirty little
nigger as Henry Ward was at school.'

'I think you might have known Mary better!' exclaimed Gertrude.

'And it's not Tom either?' he asked.

'Exactly the reverse,' laughed his father.

'Well, Tom is a sly fellow, and he had a knack of turning up whenever
one wanted to do a civil thing by that poor girl.  Where is she now?'

'At New York.'

'They'd better take care how they send me to watch the Yankees,
then.'

'Your passion does not alarm me greatly,' laughed the Doctor.  'I
don't think it ever equalled that for the reigning ship.  I hope
there's a vacancy in that department for the present, and that we may
have you at home a little.'

'Indeed, sir, I'm afraid not,' said Harry.  'I saw Captain Gordon at
Portsmouth this morning, and he tells me he is to go out in the Clio
to the Pacific station, and would apply for me as his first
lieutenant, if I liked to look up the islands again.  So, if you have
any commissions for Norman, I'm your man.

'And how soon?'

'Uncertain--but Cheviot and Mary must settle their affairs in good
time; I've missed all the weddings in the family hitherto, and won't
be balked of Polly's.  I say, Ethel, you can't mean me not to go and
wish her joy.'

'We are by no means come to joy yet,' said Ethel; 'poor Mary is
overset by the suddenness of the thing.'

'Why, I thought it was all fixed.'

'Nothing less so,' said the Doctor.  'One would think it was a naiad
that had had an offer from the mountains next, for she has been
shedding a perfect river of tears ever since; and all that the united
discernment of the family has yet gathered is, that she cries rather
more when we tell her she is right to say No than when we tell her
she is right to say Yes.'

'I declare, Ethel, you must let me go up to her.'

'But, Harry, I promised she should hear no more about it to-night.
You must say nothing unless she begins.'

And thinking a quiet night's rest, free from further excitement, the
best chance of a rational day, Ethel was glad that her mission
resulted in the report, 'Far too nearly asleep to be disturbed;' but
on the way up to bed, soft as Harry's foot-falls always were, a voice
came down the stairs, 'That's Harry!  Oh, come!' and with a face of
triumph turned back to meet Ethel's glance of discomfited warning, he
bounded up, to be met by Mary in her dressing-gown.  'O, Harry, why
didn't you come?' as she threw her arms round his neck.

'They wouldn't let me.'

'I did think I heard you; but when no one came I thought it was only
Richard, till I heard the dear old step, and then I knew.  O, Harry!'
and still she gasped, with her head on his shoulder.

'They said you must be quiet.'

'O Harry! did you hear?'

'Yes, indeed,' holding her closer, 'and heartily glad I am; I know
him as well as if I had sailed with him, and I could not wish you in
better hands.'

'But--O, Harry dear--' and there was a struggle with a sob between
each word, 'indeed--I won't--mind if you had rather not.'

'Do you mean that you don't like him?'

'I should see him, you know, and perhaps he would not mind--he could
always come and talk to papa in the evenings.'

'And is that what you want to put a poor man off with, Mary?'

'Only--only--if you don't want me to--'

'I not want you to--?  Why, Mary, isn't it the very best thing I
could want for you?  What are you thinking about?'

'Don't you remember, when you came home after your wound, you said I
--I mustn't--' and she fell into such a paroxysm of crying that he had
quite to hold her up in his arms, and though his voice was merry,
there was a moisture on his eyelashes.  'Oh, you Polly!  You're a
caution against deluding the infant mind!  Was that all?  Was that
what made you distract them all?  Why not have said so?'

'Oh, never!  They would have said you were foolish.'

'As I was for not knowing that you wouldn't understand that I only
meant you were to wait till the right one turned up.  Why, if I had
been at Auckland, would you have cried till I came home?'

'Oh, I'm sorry I was silly!  But I'm glad you didn't mean it, dear
Harry!' squeezing him convulsively.

'There!  And now you'll sleep sound, and meet them as fresh as a fair
wind to-morrow.  Eh?'

'Only please tell papa I'm sorry I worried him.'

'And how about somebody else, Mary, whom you've kept on tenter-hooks
ever so long?  Are you sure he is not walking up and down under the
limes on the brink of despair?'

'Oh, do you think--? But he would not be so foolish!'

'There now, go to sleep.  I'll settle it all for you, and I shan't
let any one say you are a goose but myself.  Only sleep, and get
those horrid red spots away from under your eyes, or perhaps he'll
repent his bargain, said Harry, kissing each red spot.  'Promise
you'll go to bed the instant I'm gone.'

'Well,' said Dr. May, looking out of his room, 'I augur that the
spirit of the flood has something to say to the spirit of the fell.'

'I should think so!  Genuine article--no mistake.'

'Then what was all this about?'

'All my fault.  Some rhodomontade of mine about not letting her marry
had cast anchor in her dear little ridiculous heart, and it is well I
turned up before she had quite dissolved herself away.'

'Is that really all?'

'The sum total of the whole, as sure as--' said Harry, pausing for an
asseveration, and ending with 'as sure as your name is Dick May;'
whereat they both fell a-laughing, though they were hardly drops of
laughter that Harry brushed from the weather-marked pucker in the
comer of his eyes; and Dr. May gave a sigh of relief, and said,
'Well, that's right!'

'Where's the latch-key?  I must run down and put Cheviot out of his
misery.'

'It is eleven o'clock, he'll be gone to bed.'

'Then I would forbid the banns.  Where does he hang out?  Has he got
into old Hoxton's?'

'No, it is being revivified.  He is at Davis's lodgings.  But I
advise you not, a little suspense will do him good.'

'One would think you had never been in love,' said Harry,
indignantly.  'At least, I can't sleep till I've shaken hands with
the old fellow.  Good night, father.  I'll not be long.'

He kept his word, and the same voice greeted him out of the dressing-
room: 'How was the spirit of the fell?  Sleep'st thou, brother?'

'Brother, nay,' answered Harry, 'he was only looking over Latin
verses!  He always was a cool hand.'

'The spirit of the Fell--Dr. Fell, with a vengeance,' said Dr. May.
'I say, Harry, is this going to be a mere business transaction on his
part?  Young folks have not a bit of romance in these days, and one
does not know where to have them; but if I thought--'

'You may be sure of him, sir,' said Harry, speaking the more eagerly
because he suspected the impression his own manner had made; 'he is
thoroughly worthy, and feels Mary's merits pretty nearly as much as I
do.  More, perhaps, I ought to say.  There's more warmth in him than
shows.  I don't know that Norman ever could have gone through that
terrible time after the accident, but for the care he took of him.
And that little brother of his that sailed with me in the Eurydice,
and died at Singapore--I know how he looked to his brother Charles,
and I do assure you, father, you could not put the dear Mary into
safer, sounder hands, or where she could be more prized or happier.
He is coming up to-morrow morning, and you'll see he is in earnest in
spite of all his set speeches.  Good night, father; I am glad to be
in time for the last of my Polly.'

This was almost the only moment at which Harry betrayed a
consciousness that his Polly was less completely his own.  And yet it
seemed as if it must have been borne in on him again and again, for
Mary awoke the next morning as thoroughly, foolishly, deeply in love
as woman could be, and went about comporting herself in the most
comically commonplace style, forgetting and neglecting everything,
not hearing nor seeing, making absurd mistakes, restless whenever Mr.
Cheviot was not present, and then perfectly content if he came to sit
by her, as he always did; for his courtship--now it had fairly begun
--was equally exclusive and determined.  Every day they walked or rode
together, almost every evening he came and sat by her, and on each
holiday they engrossed the drawing-room, Mary looking prettier than
she had ever been seen before; Aubrey and Gertrude both bored and
critical; Harry treating the whole as a pantomime got up for his
special delectation, and never betokening any sense that Mary was
neglecting him.  It was the greatest help to Ethel in keeping up the
like spirit, under the same innocent unconscious neglect from the
hitherto devoted Mary, who was only helpful in an occasional revival
of mechanical instinct in lucid intervals, and then could not be
depended on.  To laugh good-naturedly and not bitterly, to think the
love-making pretty and not foolish, to repress Gertrude's saucy
scorn, instead of encouraging it, would have been far harder without
the bright face of the brother who generously surrendered instead of
repining.

She never told herself that there was no proportion between the
trials, not only because her spirits still suffered from the ever-
present load of pity at her heart, nor because the loss would be
hourly to her, but also because Charles Cheviot drew Harry towards
him, but kept her at a distance, or more truly laughed her down.  She
was used to be laughed at; her ways had always been a matter of
amusement to her brothers, and perhaps it was the natural assumption
of brotherhood to reply to any suggestion or remark of hers with
something intended for drollery, and followed with a laugh, which,
instead of as usual stirring her up to good-humoured repartee,
suppressed her, and made her feel foolish and awkward.  As to Flora's
advice, to behave with tact, she could not if she would, she would
not if she could; in principle she tried to acquiesce in a man's
desire to show that he meant to have his wife to himself, and in
practice she accepted his extinguisher because she could not help it.

Mr. Cheviot was uneasy about the chances of Aubrey's success in the
examination at Woolwich, and offered assistance in the final
preparation; but though Aubrey willingly accepted the proposal, two
or three violent headaches from over-study and anxiety made Dr. May
insist on his old regimen of entire holiday and absence of work for
the last week; to secure which repose, Aubrey was sent to London with
Harry for a week's idleness and the society of Tom, who professed to
be too busy to come home even for Christmas.  Mr. Cheviot's opinion
transpired through Mary, that it was throwing away Aubrey's only
chance.

In due time came the tidings that Aubrey had the second largest
number of marks, and had been highly commended for the thoroughness
of his knowledge, so different from what had been only crammed for
the occasion.  He had been asked who had been his tutor, and had
answered, 'His brother,' fully meaning to spare Ethel publicity; and
she was genuinely thankful for having been shielded under Tom's six
months of teaching.  She heartily wished the same shield would have
availed at home, when Charles Cheviot gave that horrible laugh, and
asked her if she meant to stand for a professor's chair.  She
faltered something about Tom and mathematics.  'Ay, ay,' said
Charles; 'and these military examinations are in nothing but foreign
languages and trash;' and again he laughed his laugh, and Mary
followed his example.  Ethel would fain have seen the fun.

'Eh, Cheviot, what two of a trade never agree?' asked Dr. May, in
high glory and glee.

'Not my trade, papa,' said Ethel, restored by his face and voice,
'only the peculiarity of examiners, so long ago remarked by Norman,
of only setting questions that one can answer.'

'Not your trade, but your amateur work!' said Mr. Cheviot, again
exploding, and leaving Ethel to feel demolished.  Why, she wondered
presently, had she not held up her knitting, and merrily owned it for
her trade--why, but because those laughs took away all merriment, all
presence of mind, all but the endeavour not to be as cross as she
felt.  Was this systematic, or was it only bad taste?

The wedding was fixed for Whitsuntide; the repairs and drainage
necessitating early and long holidays; and the arrangements gave full
occupation.  Mary was the first daughter who had needed a portion,
since Mr. Cheviot was one of a large family, and had little of his
own.  Dr. May had inherited a fair private competence, chiefly in
land in and about the town, and his professional gains, under his
wife's prudent management, had been for the most part invested in the
like property.  The chief of his accumulation of ready money had been
made over to establish Richard at Cocksmoor; and though living in an
inexpensive style, such as that none of the family knew what it was
to find means lacking for aught that was right or reasonable, there
was no large amount of capital available.  The May custom had always
been that the physician should inherit the landed estate; and though
this was disproportionately increased by the Doctor's own
acquisitions, yet the hold it gave over the town was so important,
that he was unwilling it should be broken up at his death, and wished
to provide for his other children by charges on the rents, instead of
by sale and division.  All this he caused Richard to write to Tom,
for though there was no absolute need of the young man's concurrence
in arranging Mary's settlements, it was a good opportunity for
distinctly stating his prospects, and a compliment to consult him.

Feeling that Tom had thus been handsomely dealt with, his letter to
his father was the greater shock, when, after saying that he doubted
whether he could come home for the wedding, he expressed gratitude
for the opening held out to him, but begged that precedents
applicable to very different circumstances might not be regarded as
binding.  He was distressed at supplanting Richard, and would greatly
prefer the property taking its natural course.  It would be so many
years, he trusted, before there would be room for his services, even
as an assistant, at Stoneborough, that he thought it would be far
more advisable to seek some other field; and his own desire would be
at once to receive a younger son's share, if it were but a few
hundreds, and be free to cut out his own line.

'What is he driving at, Ethel?' asked the Doctor, much vexed.  'I
offer him what any lad should jump at; and he only says, "Give me the
portion of goods that falleth to me."  What does that mean?'

'Not prodigality,' said Ethel.  'Remember what Sir Matthew Fleet said
to Dr. Spencer--"Dick's ability and common sense besides."'

'Exactly what makes me suspicious of his coming the disinterested
over me.  There's something behind!  He is running into debt and
destruction among that precious crew about the hospitals.'

'Harry saw nothing wrong, and thought his friends in good style.'

'Every one is in good style with Harry, happy fellow!  He is no more
a judge than a child of six years old--carries too much sunshine to
see shades.'

'A lieutenant in the navy can hardly be the capital officer that our
Harry is without some knowledge of men and discipline.'

'I grant you, on his own element; but on shore he goes about in his
holiday spectacles, and sees a bird of paradise in every cock-
sparrow.'

'Isn't _there_ a glass house that can sometimes make a swan?' said
Ethel, slyly touching her father's spectacles; 'but with you both,
there's always a something to attract the embellishing process; and
between Harry and Aubrey, Dr. Spencer and Sir Matthew, we could
hardly fail to have heard of anything amiss.'

'I don't like it.'

'Then it is hard,' said Ethel, with spirit.  'So steady as he has
always been, he ought to have the benefit of a little trust.'

'He was never like the others; I don't know what to be at with him!
I should not have minded but for that palaver about elder brothers.'

Defend as Ethel might, it was still with a misgiving lest
disappointment should have taken a wrong course.  It was hard to
trust where correspondence was the merest business scrap, and neither
Christmas nor the sister's marriage availed to call Tom home; and
though she had few fears as to dissipation, she did dread hardening
and ambition, all the more since she had learnt that Sir Matthew
Fleet was affording to him a patronage unprecedented from that
quarter.

No year of Etheldred May's life had been so trying as this last.  It
seemed like her first step away from the aspirations of youth, into
the graver fears of womanhood.  With all the self-restraint that she
had striven to exercise at Coombe, it had been a time of glorious
dreams over the two young spirits who seemed to be growing up by her
side to be faithful workers, destined to carry out her highest
visions; and the boyish devotion of the one, the fraternal reverence
of the other, had made her very happy.  And now?  The first
disappointment in Leonard had led--not indeed to less esteem for him,
but to that pitying veneration that could only be yielded by a
sharing in spirit of the like martyrdom; a continued thankfulness and
admiration, but a continual wringing of the heart.  And her own child
and pupil, Aubrey, had turned aside from the highest path; and in the
unavowed consciousness that he was failing in the course he had so
often traced out with her, and that all her aid and ready
participation in his present interests were but from her outward not
her inward heart, he had never argued the point with her, never
consulted her on his destination.  He had talked only to his father
of his alteration of purpose, and had at least paid her the
compliment of not trying to make her profess that she was gratified
by the change.  In minor matters, he depended on her as much as ever;
but Harry was naturally his chief companion, and the prime of his
full and perfect confidence had departed, partly in the step from boy
to man, but more from the sense that he was not fulfilling the
soldiership he had dreamt of with her, and that he had once led her
to think his talents otherwise dedicated.  She had few fears for his
steadiness, but she had some for his health, and he was something
taken away from her--a brightness had faded from his image.

And this marriage--with every effort at rejoicing and certainty of
Mary's present bliss and probability of future happiness, it was the
loss of a sister, and not the gain of a brother, and Mr. Cheviot did
his utmost to render the absence of repining a great effort of
unselfishness.  And even with her father, her possession of Tom's
half-revealed secret seemed an impairing of absolute confidence; she
could not but hope that her father did her brother injustice, and in
her tenderness towards them both this was a new and painful
sensation.  Her manner was bright and quaint as ever, her sayings
perhaps less edged than usual, because the pain at her heart made her
guard her tongue; but she had begun to feel middle-aged, and
strangely lonely.  Richard, though always a comfort, would not have
entered into her troubles; Harry, in his atmosphere of sailor on
shore, had nothing of the confidant, and engrossed his father; Mary
and Aubrey were both gone from her, and Gertrude was still a child.
She had never so longed after Margaret or Norman.  But at least her
corner in the Minster, her table at home with her Bible and Prayer-
Book, were still the same, and witnessed many an outpouring of her
anxiety, many a confession of the words or gestures that she had felt
to have been petulant, whether others had so viewed them or not.




CHAPTER XIX



Long among them was seen a maiden, who waited and wondered,
Lowly and meek in spirit, and patiently suffering all things;
Fair was she, and young, but alas! before her extended,
Dreary and vast and silent, the desert of life.--Evangeline.
                                                    LONGFELLOW


'Sister, sister! who is it?  Going to be married!  Oh, do tell us!'
cried Ella Warden--as she now was called--capering round her elder
sister, who stood beneath a gas-burner, in a well-furnished bed-room,
reading a letter, its enclosure clasped within a very trembling hand.

'Mary May, dear Mary,' answered Averil, still half absently.

'And who?'

'Mr. Cheviot,' said Averil, thoroughly rousing herself, and, with a
quick movement, concealing the enclosure in her bosom.  'I remember
him; he was very good, when--'

And there she paused; while Ella chattered on: 'Oh, sister, if you
were but at home, you would be a bridesmaid now, and perhaps we
should.  Little Miss Rivers was Mrs. Ernescliffe's bridesmaid.  Don't
you remember, Minna, how we saw her in her little cashmere cloak?'

'Oh, don't, Ella!' escaped from Minna, like a cry of pain, as she
leant back in a rocking-chair, and recollected who had held her up in
his arms to watch Blanche May's wedding procession.

'And how soon will she be married, sister, and where will she live?'
asked the much-excited Ella.

'She will be married in Whitsun week, and as he is headmaster, they
will live in Dr. Hoxton's house.  Dear, good Mary, how glad I am that
she is so full of happiness--her letter quite brims over with it!  I
wonder if I may work anything to send her.'

'I should like to send her some very beautiful thing indeed,' cried
Ella, with emphasis, and eyes dilating at some visionary
magnificence.

'Ah, I have nothing to send her but my love!  And I may send _her_
that still,' said Minna, looking up wistfully at Averil, who bent
down and kissed her.

'And Ave won't let me send mine to Mr. Tom, though I'm sure I do love
him the best of them all,' said Ella.

'That wasn't--' half whispered Minna, but turned her head away, with
a sigh of oppression and look of resignation, sad in so young a
child, though, indeed, the infantine form was fast shooting into
tall, lank girlhood.  Ella went on: 'I shall send him the objects for
his microscope, when I get into the country; for I promised, so
sister can't prevent me.'

'Oh, the country!--when shall we go there?' sighed Minna.

'Your head aches to-night, my dear,' said Averil, looking anxiously
at her listless attitude, half-opened eyes, and the deep hollows
above her collar-bones.

'It always does after the gas is lighted,' said the child, patiently,
'it is always so hot here.'

'It is just like being always in the conservatory at the Grange,'
added Ella.  'I do hate this boarding-house.  It is very unkind of
Henry to keep us here--fifteen weeks now.'

'Oh, Ella,' remonstrated Minna, 'you mustn't say that!'

'But I shall say it,' retorted Ella. 'Rosa Willis says what she
pleases, and so shall I.  I don't see the sense of being made a baby
of, when every one else of our age eats all they like, and is
consulted about arrangements, and attends classes.  And sister owns
she does not know half so much as Cora!'

This regular declaration of American independence confounded the two
sisters, and made Averil recall the thoughts that had been wandering:
'No, Ella, in some things I have not learnt so much as Cora; but I
believe I know enough to teach you, and it has been a comfort to me
to keep my two little sisters with me, and not send them to be mixed
up among strange girls.  Besides, I have constantly hoped that our
present way of life would soon be over, and that we should have a
home of our own again.'

'And why can't we!' asked Ella, in a much more humble and subdued
voice.

'Because Henry cannot hear of anything to do.  He thought he should
soon find an opening in this new country; but there seem to be so
many medical men everywhere that no one will employ or take into
partnership a man that nothing is known about; and he cannot produce
any of his testimonials, because they are all made out in his old
name, except one letter that Dr. May gave him.  It is worse for Henry
than for us, Ella. and all we can do for him is not to vex him with
our grievances.

Poor Averil! her dejected, patient voice, sad soft eyes, and gentle
persuasive manner, were greatly changed from those of the handsome,
accomplished girl, who had come home to be the family pride and pet;
still more, perhaps, from the wilful mistress of the house and the
wayward sufferer of last summer.

'And shan't we go to live in the dear beautiful forest, as Cora
Muller wishes?'

There was a tap at the door, and the children's faces brightened,
though a shade passed over Averil's face, as if everything at that
moment were oppressive; but she recovered a smile of greeting for the
pretty creature who flew up to her with a fervent embrace--a girl a
few years her junior, with a fair, delicate face and figure, in a
hot-house rose style of beauty.

'Father's come!' she cried.

'How glad you must be!'

'And now,' whispered the children, 'we shall know about going to
Indiana.'

'He says Mordaunt is as tall as he is, and that the house is quite
fixed for me; but I told him I must have one more term, and then I
will take you with me.  Ah! I am glad to see the children in white.
If you would only change that plain black silk, you would receive so
much more consideration.'

'I don't want it, Cora, thank you,' said Averil, indifferently; and,
indeed, the simple mourning she still wore was a contrast to her
friend's delicate, expensive silk.

'But I want it for you,' pleaded Cora.  'I don't want to hear my
Averil censured for English hauteur, and offend my country's
feelings, so that she keeps herself from seeing the best side.'

'I see a very good, very dear side of one,' said Averil, pressing the
eager hand that was held out to her, 'and that is enough for me.  I
was not a favourite in my own town, and I have not spirits to make
friends here.'

'Ah! you will have spirits in our woods,' she said.  'You shall show
me how you go gipsying in England.'

'The dear, dear woods!  Oh, we must go!' cried the little girls.

'But it is going to be a town,' said Minna, gravely.

Cora laughed.  'Ah, there will be plenty of bush this many a day,
Minna!  No lack of butternuts and hickories, I promise you, nor of
maples to paint the woods gloriously.'

'You have never been there?' said Averil, anxiously.

'No; I have been boarding here these two years, since father and
brothers located there, but we had such a good time when we lived at
my grandfather's farm, in Ohio, while father was off on the railway
business.'

A gong resounded through the house, and Averil, suppressing a
disappointed sigh, allowed Cora to take possession of her arm, and,
followed by the two children, became parts of a cataract of people
who descended the great staircase, and flowed into a saloon, where
the dinner was prepared.

Henry, with a tall, thin, wiry-looking gentleman, was entering at the
same time, and Averil found herself shaking hands with her brother's
companion, and hearing him say, 'Good evening, Miss Warden; I'm glad
to meet my daughter's friend.  I hope you feel at home in our great
country.'

It was so exactly the ordinary second-rate American style, that
Averil, who had expected something more in accordance with the
refinement of everything about Cora, except a few of her tones, was a
little disappointed, and responded with difficulty; then, while Mr.
Muller greeted her sisters, she hastily laid her hand on Henry's arm,
and said, under her breath, 'I've a letter from him.'

'Hush!' Henry looked about with a startled eye and repressing
gesture.  Averil drew back, and, one hand on her bosom, pressing the
letter, and almost holding down a sob, she took her accustomed seat
at the meal.  Minna, too languid for the rapidity of the movements,
hardly made the exertion of tasting food.  Ella, alert and brisk,
took care of herself as effectually as did Rosa Willis, on the
opposite side of the table.  Averil, all one throb of agitation, with
the unread letter lying at her heart, directed all her efforts to
look, eat, and drink, as usual; happily, talking was the last thing
that was needed.

Averil had been greatly indebted to Miss Muller, who had taken pity
on the helpless strangers--interested, partly by her own romance
about England, partly by their mourning dresses, dark melancholy
eyes, and retiring, bewildered manner.  A beautiful motherless girl,
under seventeen--left, to all intents and purposes, alone in New
York--attending a great educational establishment, far more
independent and irresponsible than a young man at an English
University, yet perfectly trustworthy--never subject to the bevues of
the 'unprotected female,' but self-reliant, modest, and graceful, in
the heterogeneous society of the boarding-house--she was a constant
marvel to Averil, and a warm friendship soon sprang up.  The advances
were, indeed, all on one side; for Ave was too sad, and oppressed
with too heavy a secret, to be readily accessible; but there was an
attraction to the younger, fresher, freer nature, even in the mystery
of her mournful reserve; and the two drew nearer together from
gratitude, and many congenial feelings, that rendered Cora the one
element of comfort in the boarding-house life; while Henry in vain
sought for occupation.

Cora had been left under the charge of the lady of the boarding-
house, a distant connection, while her father, who had been engaged
in more various professions than Averil could ever conceive of or
remember, had been founding a new city in Indiana, at once as farmer
and land-agent, and he had stolen a little time, in the dead season,
to hurry up to New York, partly on business, and partly to see his
daughter, who had communicated to him her earnest desire that her new
friends might be induced to settle near their future abode.

American meals were too serious affairs for conversation; but such as
there was, was political, in all the fervid heat of the first
commencements of disunion and threatenings of civil war.  After the
ladies had repaired to their saloon, with its grand ottomans, sofas,
rocking-chairs, and piano, the discussion continued among them; Cora
talking with the utmost eagerness of the tariff and of slavery, and
the other topics of the day, intensely interesting, and of terrible
moment, to her country; but that country Averil had not yet learnt to
feel her own, and to her all was one dreary whirl of words, in which
she longed to escape to her room, and read her letter.  Ella had
joined Rosa Willis, and the other children; but Minna, as usual, kept
under her sister's wing, and Averil could not bear to shake herself
free of the gentle child.  The ladies of the boarding-house--some
resident in order to avoid the arduous duties of housekeeping, others
temporarily brought thither in an interregnum of servants, others
spending a winter in the city--had grown tired of asking questions
that met with the scantiest response, took melancholy for disdain,
and were all neglectful, some uncivil, to the grave, silent English
girl, and she was sitting alone, with Minna's hand in hers, as she
had sat for many a weary evening, when her brother and Mr. Muller
came up together, and, sitting down on either side of her, began to
talk of the rising city of Massissauga--admirably situated--excellent
water privilege, communicating with Lake Michigan--glorious primeval
forest--healthy situation--fertile land--where a colossal fortune
might be realized in maize, eighties, sections, speculations.  It was
all addressed to her, and it was a hard task to give attention, so as
to return a rational answer, while her soul would fain have been
clairvoyante, to read the letter in her breast.  She did perceive, at
last, though not till long after the children had gone to bed, that
the project was, that the family should become the purchasers of
shares, which would give them a right to a portion of the soil,
excellent at present for growing corn, and certain hereafter to be
multiplied in value for building; that Henry might, in the meantime,
find an opening for practice, but might speedily be independent of
it.  It sounded promising, and it was escape--escape from forced
inaction, from an uncongenial life, from injury to the children, and
it would be with Cora, her one friend.  What was the demur, and why
were they consulting her, who, as Henry knew, was ready to follow him
wherever he chose to carry her?  At last came a gleam of
understanding: 'Then, Doctor, you will talk it over with your sister,
and give me your ultimatum;' and therewith Mr. Muller walked away to
mingle in other conversation, and Henry coming closer to his sister,
she again eagerly said, 'I have it here; you shall see it to-morrow,
when I have read it.'

'It--'

'The letter.'

'How can you be so unguarded?  You have not let the children know?
Take care then, I will not have the subject revived with them.'

'But Minna--'

'It is this heated stove atmosphere.  She will soon forget if you
don't keep it up, and she will be herself when we leave this place,
and it depends on you when we do that, Ave.'

'On me!' she said, with bewildered face.

And Henry, marvelling at her slowness of comprehension, made her
understand that the advance of money, for the purchase at
Massissauga, must come from her means.  His own had been heavily
drained by the removal, the long period of inaction, and moreover
what remained had been embarked in shares in a company, absolutely
certain to succeed, but where they were not at once available for
sale.  Averil was now of age, her property was in her own power, and
could not, her brother assured her, be better invested, than on
ground certain to increase in value.  She looked at him, confused and
distressed, aware that it was too important a step to be taken
without consideration, yet unable to compose her thoughts, or
recollect objections.

'Must I answer to-night?' she said.

'No, there is no need for that.  But we must close to-morrow with
Muller, for it is not a chance that will long go begging.'

'Then let me go, please, Henry,' she said, imploringly.  'I will tell
you to-morrow, but I can't now.  I don't seem to understand
anything.'

It was late, and he released her, with a kind good night, though
still with a sign of caution.  Cora, however, hastened to join her,
and walk up the stairs with her, eagerly inquiring into the success
of the negotiation, and detailing what she had gathered from her
father as to the improvements he had been making.  She would fain
have made Averil come into her bedroom to build castles there; but
this was more than could be borne, and breaking from her at last,
Averil reached her own room, not to think of Mr. Muller's project,
but to cast an anxious glance at each of the little beds, to judge
whether the moment had come when that famishing hunger might be
appeased by the crumb which for these mortal hours had lain upon her
craving heart--the very first since the one on the arrival at
Milbank.

Each brown head was shrouded in the coverings, the long dark fringes
rested safely on the cheeks, and Averil at length drew out the
treasure, and laid it on her hand to dwell on its very sight.  The
address needed to be looked at with lingering earnestness, as if it
had indeed been a missive from another world; she looked, and was
tardy to unfold it, as though, now the moment was come, the sense of
being in communication with her brother must be tasted to the utmost,
ere entering on the utterances that must give pain; and when she did
open the envelope, perhaps the first sensation was disappointment--
the lines were not near enough together, the writing not small
enough, to satisfy even the first glance of the yearning eye.  It was
cheerful, it spoke of good health, and full occupation, with the use
of books, daily exercise, the chaplain's visits, schooling and
attendance at chapel, and of the great pleasure of having heard from
her.  'And that good Dr. May inclosed your letter in one written to
me with his own hand, a kindness I never dared to think of as
possible, but which he promises to repeat.  Your letter and his are
the continual food of my thoughts, and are valued beyond all power of
words.  I only hope you knew that I have not been allowed to write
sooner, and have not expected letters.'  Then came a few brief
comments on her last inquiries, and entreaties that she would give
him full information of all details of their present life: 'It will
carry me along with you, and I shall live with you, both as I read,
and as I dwell on it afterwards.  Do not indulge in a moment's
uneasiness about me, for I am well, and busy; every one is as kind to
me as duty permits, and Dr. May is always ready to do all in his
power for me.'  There were a few affectionate words for Henry, and 'I
long to send a message to the children, but I know it is better for
them to let me drop from their minds, only you must tell me all about
them; I want to know that the dear little Minna is bright and happy
again.'

No confidences, only generalities; not even any reference to the one
unbroken bond of union, the one support, except in the three scanty
final words, the simplest of blessings.  It was not satisfying; but
Averil recalled, with a start, that no wonder the letter was meagre,
since it was necessarily subject to inspection; and how could the
inner soul be expressed when all must pass under strangers' eyes, who
would think such feelings plausible hypocrisy in a convicted felon.
Again she took it up, to suck to the utmost all that might be
conveyed in the short commonplace sentences, and to gaze at them as
if intensity of study could reveal whether the cheerfulness were real
or only assumed.  Be they what they might, the words had only three
weeks back been formed by Leonard's hand, and she pressed her lips
upon them in a fervent agony of affection.

When she roused herself and turned her head, she perceived on Minna's
pillow two eyes above the bed-clothes, intently fixed on her.  Should
she see, or should she not see?  She believed that the loving heart
was suffering a cruel wrong, she yearned to share all with the child,
but she was chained by the command of one brother, and by that
acquiescence of the other which to her was more than a command.  She
would not see, she turned away, and made her preparations for the
night without betraying that she knew that the little one was awake,
resuming the tedious guard on the expression of her face.  But when
her long kneeling had ended, and with it that which was scarcely so
much conscious intercession as the resting an intolerable load on One
who alone knew its weight, just as she darkened the room for the
night, the low voice whispered, 'Ave, is it?'--

And Averil crept up to the little bed: 'Yes, Minna; he is well!  He
hopes you are bright and happy, but he says it is best you should
forget him.'  The brow was cold and clammy, the little frame chill
and trembling, the arms clasped her neck convulsively.  She lifted
the child into her own bed, pressed tight to her own bosom, and
though no other word passed between the sisters, that contact seemed
to soothe away the worst bitterness; and Averil slept from the
stillness enforced on her by the heed of not disturbing Minna's
sleep.

Little that night had she recked of the plan needing so much
deliberation!  When she awoke it was to the consciousness that
besides the arrival of Leonard's letter, something had happened--
there was some perplexity--what was it?  And when it came back she
was bewildered.  Her own fortune had always appeared to her something
to fall back on in case of want of success, and to expend it thus was
binding the whole family down at a perilous moment, to judge by the
rumours of battle and resistance.  And all she had ever heard at
home, much that she daily heard at New York, inclined her to distrust
and dislike of American speculations.  It was Cora's father!  Her
heart smote her for including him in English prejudice, when Henry
liked and trusted him!  And she had disobeyed and struggled against
Henry too long.  She had promised to be submissive and yielding.  But
was this the time?  And the boarding-house life--proverbially the
worst for children--was fast Americanizing Ella, while Minna drooped
like a snowdrop in a hot-house, and idleness might be mischievous to
Henry.

Oh, for some one to consult! for some one to tell her whether the
risk was a foolish venture, or if the terms were safe!  But not a
creature did she know well enough to seek advice from!  Even the
clergyman, whose church she attended, was personally unknown to her;
Cora Muller was her sole intimate; there was a mutual repulsion
between her and the other ladies, and still more with the gentlemen.
A boarding-house was not the scene in which to find such as would
inspire confidence, and they had no introductions.  There was no one
to turn to; and in the dreary indifference that had grown over her,
she did not even feel capable of exerting her own judgment to the
utmost, even if she had been able to gather certain facts, or to know
prudent caution from blind prejudice--often woman's grievous
difficulty.  What could a helpless girl of one-and-twenty, in a land
of strangers, do, but try to think that by laying aside the use of
her own judgment she was trusting all to Providence, and that by
leaving all to her brother she was proving her repentance for her
former conduct.

There, too, were her sisters, clamorous with hopes of the forest
life; and there was Cora, urging the scheme with all the fervour of
girlish friendship, and in herself no small element in its favour,
engaging for everything, adducing precedents for every kind of
comfort and success, and making Ave's consent a test of her love.
One question Averil asked of her--whether they should be utterly out
of reach of their Church?  Cora herself had been bred up to liberal
religious ways, and was ready to attend whatever denomination of
public worship came first to hand, though that which had descended
from the Pilgrim Fathers came most naturally.  She had been at
various Sunday schools, and was a good conscientious girl, but had
never gone through the process of conversion, so that Rosa Willis had
horrified Ella by pronouncing her 'not a Christian.'  She had no
objection to show her English friends the way to the favourite
Episcopal Church, especially as it was esteemed fashionable; and her
passion for Averil had retained her there, with growing interest,
drawn on by Averil's greater precision of religious knowledge, and
the beauty of the Church system, displayed to her as the one joy and
relief left to one evidently crushed with suffering.  The use of
Averil's books, conversations with her, and the teaching she heard,
disposed her more and more to profess herself a member of the
Episcopal Church, and she was unable to enter into Averil's scruples
at leading her to so decided a step without her father's sanction.
'Father would be satisfied whatever profession she made.  Did people
in England try to force their children's consciences?'  Cora, at
Averil's desire, ascertained that Massissauga had as yet no place of
worship of its own; but there was a choice of chapels within a
circuit of five miles, and an Episcopal Church seven miles off, at
the chief town of the county.  Moreover, her father declared that the
city of Massissauga would soon be considerable enough to invite every
variety of minister to please every denomination of inhabitant.
Averil felt that the seven miles off church was all she could
reasonably hope for, and her mind was clear on that score, when Henry
came to take her out walking for the sake of being able to talk more
freely.

No longer afraid of being overheard, he gave kind attention to
Leonard's letter; and though he turned away from the subject sooner
than she wished, she was not exacting.  Again he laid before her the
advantages of their migration, and assured her that if there were the
slightest risk he would be the last to make the proposal.  She asked
if it were safe to invest money in a country apparently on the eve of
civil war?

He laughed the idea to scorn.  How could the rebel states make war,
with a population of negroes sure to rise against their masters?
Where should their forces come from?  Faction would soon be put down,
and the union be stronger than ever.  It was what Averil had been
hearing morning, noon, and night, so no wonder she believed it, and
was ashamed of a futile girlish fear.

And was Henry sure it was a healthy place?  Had she not heard of
feverish swamps in Indiana?

Oh yes, in new unsettled places; but there had hardly been an ailment
in the Muller family since they had settled at Massissauga.

And Averil's last murmur was--Could he find out anything about other
people's opinion of the speculation? did they know enough about Mr.
Muller to trust themselves entirely in his hands?

Henry was almost angry--Could not his sister trust him to take all
reasonable precaution?  It was the old story of prejudice against
whatever he took up.

Poor Averil was disarmed directly.  The combats of will and their
consequences rose up before her, and with them Leonard's charges to
devote herself to Henry.  She could but avow herself willing to do
whatever he pleased.  She only hoped he would be careful.

All thenceforth was pleasant anticipation and hope.  Averil's
property had to be transferred to America, and invested in shares of
the land at Massissauga; but this was to cause no delay in arranging
for the removal, they were only to wait until the winter had broken
up, and the roads become passable after the melting of the snows; and
meantime Mr. Muller was to have their house prepared.  Cora would
remain and accompany them, and in the intervening time promised to
assist Averil with her judgment in making the necessary purchases for
'stepping westward.'

When Averil wrote their plans to her English friends, she felt the
difficulty of pleading for them.  She was sensible that at
Stoneborough the risking of her property would be regarded as folly
on her part, and something worse on that of her brother; and she
therefore wrote with every effort to make the whole appear her own
voluntary act--though the very effort made her doubly conscious that
the sole cause for her passive acquiescence was, that her past self-
will in trifles had left her no power to contend for her own opinion
in greater matters--the common retribution on an opinionative woman
of principle.

Moreover, it was always with an effort that she wrote to Mary May.  A
rejected offer from a brother is a rock in a correspondence with a
sister, and Averil had begun to feel greatly ashamed of the manner of
her own response.  Acceptance would have been impossible; but
irritating as had been Tom May's behaviour, insulting as had been his
explanation, and provoking, his pertinacity, she had begun to feel
that the impulse had been too generous and disinterested to deserve
such treatment, and that bitterness and ill-temper had made her lose
all softness and dignity, so that he must think that his pitying
affection had been bestowed on an ungrateful vixen, and be as much
disgusted with the interview as she was herself.  She did not wish
him to love her; but she regretted the form of the antidote, above
all, since he was of the few who appreciated Leonard; and the more
she heard of Ella's narrations of his kindness, the more ashamed she
grew.  Every letter to or from Mary renewed the uncomfortable sense,
and she would have dropped the correspondence had it not been her
sole medium of communication with her imprisoned brother, since Henry
would not permit letters to be posted with the Milbank address.




CHAPTER XX



 A little hint to solace woe,
 A hint, a whisper breathing low,
'I may not speak of what I know.'--TENNYSON


At the pace at which rapid people walk alone, when they wish to
devour both the way and their own sensations, Ethel May was mounting
the hill out of the town in the premature heat assumed by May in
compliment to Whitsun week, when a prolonged shout made her turn.  At
first she thought it was her father, but her glass showed her that it
was the brother so like him in figure that the London-made coat, and
the hair partaking of the sand instead of the salt, were often said
to be the chief distinction.  Moreover, the dainty steps over the
puddles were little like the strides of the Doctor, and left no doubt
that it was the one wedding guest who had been despaired of.

'O, Tom, I am glad you are come!'

'What a rate you were running away at!  I thought you had done with
your hurricane pace.'

'Hurricane because of desperate hurry.  I'm afraid I can't turn back
with you.'

'Where is all the world?'

'Blanche is helping Mary arrange the Hoxton--I mean her own drawing-
room.  Hector has brought a dog-cart to drive papa about in; Daisy is
gone with Harry and Aubrey to the Grange for some camellias.'

'And Ethel rushing to Cocksmoor!'

'I can't help it, Tom,' she said, humbly; 'I wish I could.'

'What's this immense pannier you are carrying?'

'It is quite light.  It is twelve of the hats for the children
tomorrow.  Mary was bent on trimming them all as usual, and I was
deluded enough to believe she would, till last evening I found just
one and a half done!  I did as many as I could at night, till papa
heard me rustling about and thumped.  Those went early this morning;
and these are the rest, which I have just finished.'

'Was there no one to send?'

'My dear Tom, is your experience of weddings so slight as to suppose
there is an available being in the family the day before?'

'I'm sure I don't desire such experience.  Why could not they be
content without ferreting me down?'

'I am very glad you have come.  It would have been a great
mortification if you had stayed away.  I never quite believed you
would.'

'I had much rather see the operation I shall miss to-morrow morning.
I shall go back by the two o'clock train.'

'To study their happiness all the way up to town?'

'Then by the mail--'

'I won't torment you to stay; but I think papa will want a talk with
you.'

'The very thing I don't want.  Why can't he dispose of his property
like other people, and give Richard his rights?'

'You know Richard would only be encumbered.'

'No such thing; Richard is a reasonable being--he will marry some of
these days--get the living after Wilmot, and--'

'But you know how papa would be grieved to separate the practice from
the house.'

'Because he and his fathers were content to bury themselves in a
hole, he expects me to do the same.  Why, what should I do?  The
place is over-doctored already.  Every third person is a pet patient
sending for him for a gnat-bite, gratis, taking the bread out of
Wright's mouth.  No wonder Henry Ward kicked!  If I came here, I must
practise on the lap-dogs!  Here's my father, stronger than any of us,
with fifteen good years' work in him at the least!  He would be
wretched at giving up to me a tenth part of his lambs, and that tenth
would keep us always in hot water.  His old-world practice would not
go down with me, and he would think everything murder that was
fresher than the year 1830.'

'I thought he was remarkable for having gone on with the world,' said
Ethel, repressing some indignation.

'So he has in a way, but always against the grain.  He has a tough
lot of prejudices; and you may depend upon it, they would be more
obstinate against me than any one else, and I should be looked on as
an undutiful dog for questioning them, besides getting the whole
credit of every case that went wrong.'

'I think you are unjust,' said Ethel, flushing with displeasure.

'I wish I were not, Ethel; but when there is one son in a family who
can do nothing that is not taken amiss, it is hard that he should be
the one picked out to be pinned down, and, maybe, goaded into doing
something to be really sorry for.'

There was truth enough in this to seal Ethel's lips from replying
that it was Tom's own fault, since his whole nature and constitution
were far more the cause than his conduct, and she answered, 'You
might get some appointment for the present, till he really wants
you.'

'To be ordered home just as I am making something of it, and see as
many cases in ten years as I could in a month in town.  Things are
altered since his time, if he could only see it.  What was the use of
giving me a first-rate education, if he meant to stick me down here?'

'At least I hope you will think long before you inflict the cruel
disappointment of knowing that not one of his five sons will succeed
to the old practice.'

'The throne, you mean, Ethel.  Pish!'

The 'Pish' was as injurious to her hereditary love for 'the old
practice,' and for the old town, as to her reverence for her father.
One angry 'Tom!' burst from her lips, and only the experience that
scolding made him worse, restrained her from desiring him to turn
back if this was the best he had to say.  Indeed she wondered to find
him still by her side, holding the gate of the plantation open for
her.  He peered under her hat as she went through--

'How hot you look!' he said, laying hold of the handles of the
basket.

'Thank you; but it is more cumbrous than heavy,' she said, not
letting go; 'it is not _that_--'

An elision which answered better than words, to show that his speech,
rather than hill or load, had made her cheeks flame; but he only drew
the great basket more decisively from her hand, put his stick into
the handle, and threw it over his shoulder; and no doubt it was a
much greater act of good-nature from him than it would have been from
Richard or Harry.

'This path always reminds me of this very matter,' he said; 'I talked
it over with Meta here, on the way to lay the foundation-stone at
Cocksmoor, till Norman overtook us and monopolized her for good, poor
little thing.  She was all in the high romantic strain, making a sort
of knight hospitaller of my father.  I wonder what she is like by
this time, and how much of _that_ she has left.'

'Of the high romantic strain?  I should think it was as much as ever
the salt of life to her.  Her last letter described her contrivances
to make a knapsack for Norman on his visitation tour.  Oh, fancy old
June a venerable archdeacon!'

'You don't think a colonial archdeacon is like one of your great
portly swells in a shovel hat.'

'It must be something remarkable that made Norman portly.  But as for
the shovel hat, Mrs. Meta has insisted on having it sent out.  I was
going to tell you that she says, "I do like such a good tough bit of
stitchery, to fit my knight out for the cause."'

'Marriage and distance have not frozen up her effusions.'

'No; when people carry souls in their pens, they are worth a great
deal more, if they are to go to a distance.'

Ah! by the bye, I suppose Cheviot has put a fresh lock on Mary's
writing-case.'

'I suspect some of Mary's correspondence will devolve on me.  Harry
has asked me already.'

'I wished you had mentioned more about the letters of late.  Leonard
wanted to know more than I could tell him.'

'You don't mean that you have seen him?  O, Tom, how kind of you!
Papa has been trying hard to get a day now that these first six
months are up; but there are two or three cases that wanted so much
watching that he has not been able to stir.'

'I know how he lets himself be made a prisoner, and that it was a
chance whether any one saw the poor fellow at all.'

'I am so glad'--and Ethel turned on him a face still flushed, but now
with gratitude.  'How was he looking?'

'The costume is not becoming, and he has lost colour and grown
hollow-eyed; but I saw no reason for being uneasy about him; he
looked clear and in health, and has not got to slouch yet.  It is
shocking to see such a grand face and head behind a grating.'

'Could he talk'?

'Why, the presence of a warder is against conversation, and six
months of shoe-making in a cell does not give much range of ideas.
There was nothing to be done but to talk on right ahead and judge by
his eyes if he liked it.'

'I suppose you could find out nothing about himself?'

'He said he got on very well; but one does not know that means.  I
asked if he got books; and he said there was a very good library, and
he could get what gave him something to think of; and he says they
give interesting lectures in school.'

'You could not gather what is thought of him?'

'No; I saw but a couple of officers of the place, and could only get
out of them "good health and good conduct."  I do not expect even his
conduct makes much impression as to his innocence, for I saw it
stated the other day that the worst prisoners are those that are
always getting convicted for petty offences; those that have
committed one great crime are not so depraved, and are much more
amenable.  However, he has only three months more at Pentonville, and
then be will go to Portland, Chatham, or Gibraltar.'

'Oh, I hope it will not be Gibraltar!  But at least that terrible
solitude will be over.'

'At any rate, his spirit is not broken.  I could see his eye light up
after I had talked a little while, and he fell into his natural tone
again.  He would not try to put out his hand to me when he came down;
but when I went away, he put it through and we had a good hearty
shake.  Somehow it made one feel quite small.'

Ethel could have pledged herself for the soundness of Tom's nature
after those words; but all she did was in an unwonted tone to utter
the unwonted exclamation--'Dear Tom.'

'If my father does not come up, I shall see him once more before he
leaves Pentonville,' added Tom; 'and so you must mind and let me know
all about his people in America.  I found he had no notion of the row
that is beginning there, so I said not a word of it.  But what is all
this about going to Indiana?'

'They are going at the end of April to settle in a place called
Massissauga, where Henry is to farm till practice comes to him.  It
is towards the north of the State, in the county of Pulaski.'

'Ay, in one of the pestilential swamps that run up out of Lake
Michigan.  All the fertile ground there breeds as many fevers and
agues as it does stalks of corn.'

'Indeed! how did you hear that?'

'I looked up the place after Leonard told me of it.  It is as unlucky
a location as the ill luck of that fellow Henry could have pitched
on.  Some friend Leonard spoke of--a Yankee, I suppose, meaning to
make a prey of them.'

'The father of their young lady friend at the boarding-house.'

'Oh! a Yankee edition of Mrs. Pugh!'

'And the worst of it is that this is to be done with poor Averil's
fortune.  She has written to Mr. Bramshaw to sell out for her, and
send her the amount, and he is terribly vexed; but she is of age, and
there are no trustees nor any one to stop it.'

'All of a piece,' muttered Tom; then presently he swung the basket
round on the ground with a vehement exclamation--'If any man on this
earth deserved to be among the robbers and murderers, I know who it
is.'  Then he shouldered his load again, and walked on in silence by
his sister's side to the school door.

Richard had been obliged to go to a benefit club entertainment; and
Ethel, knowing the limited literary resources of the parsonage, was
surprised to find Tom still waiting for her, when the distribution
and fitting of the blue-ribboned hats was over, and matters arranged
for the march of the children to see the wedding, and to dine
afterwards at the Grammar-school hall.

'O, Tom, I did not expect to find you here.'

'It is not fit for you to be walking about alone on a Whit Monday.'

'I am very glad to have you, but I am past that.'

'Don't talk nonsense; girls are girls till long past your age,' said
Tom.

'It is not so much age, as living past things,' said Ethel.

'It was not only that, added Tom; 'but I've more to say to you, while
one can be sure of a quiet moment.  Have you heard anything about
that place?' and he pointed in the direction of the Vintry Mill.

'I heard something of an intention to part with it, and have been
watching for an advertisement; but I can see none in the Courant, or
on the walls.'

'Mind he does not slip off unawares.'

'I don't know what to do now that old Hardy is cut off from us.  I
tried to stir up Dr. Spencer to go and investigate, but I could not
tell him why, and he has not the same interest in going questing
about as he used to have.  People never will do the one thing one
wants particularly!'

Tom's look and gesture made her ask if he knew of anything wrong with
their old friend; and in return, she was told that Dr. Spencer's
recent visit to London had been to consult Sir Matthew Fleet.  The
foundations of mortal disease had been laid in India, and though it
might long remain in abeyance, there were from time to time symptoms
of activity; and tedious lingering infirmity was likely to commence
long before the end.

'And what do you think the strange old fellow charged me as we walked
away from dining at Fleet's?'

'Secrecy, of course,' returned the much-shocked Ethel.

'One does keep a secret by telling you.  It was to have my eye on
some lodging with a decent landlady, where, when it is coming to
that, he can go up to be alone, out of the way of troubling Dick, and
of all of you.'

'Tom, how dreadful!'

'I fancy it is something of the animal instinct of creeping away
alone, and partly his law to himself not to trouble Dick.'

'An odd idea of what would trouble Dick!'

'So I told him; but he said, after seeing what it cost my father to
watch dear Margaret's long decay, he would never entail the like on
him.  It is queer, and it is beautiful, the tender way he has about
my father, treating him like a pet to be shielded and guarded--a man
that has five times the force and vigour of body and mind that he has
now, whatever they may have been.'

'Very beautiful, and I cannot help telling you how beautiful,' said
Ethel, greatly moved; 'only remember, it is not to be mentioned.'

'Ha! did he ever make you an offer?  I have sometimes suspected it.'

'No indeed!  It was much--much more beautiful than that!'

'Our mother then?  I had thought of that too, and it accounts for his
having always taken to you the most of us.'

'Why, I'm the least like her of us all!'

'So they say, I know, and I can't recollect enough to judge, except
that'--and Tom's voice was less clear for a moment--'there was
something in being with her that I've never found again, except now
and then with you, Ethel.  Well, he never got over it, I suppose.'

And Ethel briefly told of the rash resolution, the unsettled life,
the neglect of the father's wishes, the grievous remorse, the broken
health, and restless aimless wanderings, ending at last in loving
tendance of the bereaved rival.  It had been a life never wanting in
generosity or benevolence, yet falling far short of what it might
have been--a gallant voyage made by a wreck--and yet the injury had
been less from the disappointment than from the manner of bearing it.
Suddenly it struck her that Tom might suspect her of intending a
personal application of the history, and she faltered; but he kept
her to it by his warm interest and many questions.

'And oh, Tom, he must not be allowed to go away in this manner!
Nothing would so cut papa to the heart!'

'I don't believe he ever will, Ethel.  He may go on for years as he
is; and he said in the midst that he meant to live to carry out the
drainage.  Besides, if it comes gradually on him, he may feel
dependent and lose the energy to move.'

'Oh! what a sorrow for papa!  But I know that not to watch over him
would make it all the worse.'

They walked on gravely till, on the top of the hill, Tom exclaimed,
'They've mounted the flag on the Minster steeple already.'

'It went up yesterday for Harvey Anderson and Mrs. Pugh.  There was a
proposal to join forces, and have a double wedding--so interesting,
the two school-fellows and two young friends.  The Cheviot girls much
regretted it was not to be.'

'Cheviot girls!  Heavens and earth!  At home?'

'Not sleeping; but we shall have them all day to-morrow, for they
cannot get home the same day by setting off after the wedding.  There
will be no one else, for even our own people are going, for Harry is
to go to Maplewood with Blanche, and Aubrey has to be at Woolwich;
but we shall all be at home to-night.'

'Last time was in the volunteer days, two or three centuries ago.'

It was strange how, with this naturally least congenial of all the
family, Ethel had a certain understanding and fellow-feeling that
gave her a sense of rest and relief in his company, only impaired by
the dread of rubs between him and his father.  None, however,
happened; Dr. May had been too much hurt to press the question of the
inheritance, and took little notice of Tom, being much occupied with
the final business about the wedding, and engrossed by Hector and
Harry, who always absorbed him in their short intervals of his
company.  Tom went to see Dr. Spencer, and brought him in, so
cheerful and full of life, that what Ethel had been hearing seemed
like a dream, excepting when she recognized Tom's unobtrusive
gentleness and attention towards him.

She was surprised and touched through all the harass and hurry of
that evening and morning, to find the 'must be dones' that had of
late devolved on her alone, now lightened and aided by Tom, who
appeared to have come for the sole purpose of being always ready to
give a helping hand where she wanted it, with all Richard's manual
dexterity, and more resource and quickness.  The refreshment of
spirits was the more valuable as this was a very unexciting wedding.
Even Gertrude, not yet fourteen, had been surfeited with weddings,
and replied to Harry's old wit of 'three times a bridesmaid and never
a bride,' that she hoped so, her experience of married life was
extremely flat; and a glance at Blanche's monotonous dignity, and
Flora's worn face, showed what that experience was.

Harry was the only one to whom there was the freshness of novelty,
and he was the great element of animation; but as the time came near,
honest Harry had been seized with a mortal dread of the tears he
imagined an indispensable adjunct of the ceremony, and went about
privately consulting every one how much weeping was inevitable.
Flora told him she saw no reason for any tears, and Ethel that when
people felt very much they couldn't cry; but on the other hand,
Blanche said she felt extremely nervous, and knew she should be
overcome; Gertrude assured him that on all former occasions Mary did
all the crying herself; and Aubrey told him that each bridesmaid
carried six handkerchiefs, half for herself and half for the bride.

The result was, that the last speech made by Harry to his favourite
sister in her maiden days was thus:--'Well, Mary, you do look
uncommonly nice and pretty; but now'--most persuasively--'you'll be a
good girl and not cry, will you?' and as Mary fluttered, tried to
smile, and looked out through very moist eyes, he continued, 'I feel
horribly soft-hearted to-day, and if you howl I must, you know; so
mind, if I see you beginning, I shall come out with my father's old
story of the spirit of the flood and the spirit of the fell, and that
will stop it, if anything can.'

The comicality of Harry's alarm was nearly enough to 'stop it,'
coupled with the great desire of Daisy that he should be betrayed
into tears; and Mary did behave extremely well, and looked all that a
bride should look.  Admirable daughter and sister, she would be still
more in her place as wife; hers was the truly feminine nature that,
happily for mankind, is the most commonplace, and that she was a
thoroughly generic bride is perhaps a testimony to her perfection in
the part, as in all others where quiet unselfish womanhood was the
essential.  Never had she been so sweet in every tone, word, and
caress; never had Ethel so fully felt how much she loved her, or how
entirely they had been one, from a time almost too far back for
memory.  There had not been intellectual equality; but perhaps it was
better, fuller affection, than if there had been; for Mary had filled
up a part that had been in some measure wanting in Ethel.  She had
been a sort of wife to her sister, and thus was the better prepared
for her new life, but was all the sorer loss at home.

The bridegroom!  How many times had Ethel to remind herself of her
esteem, and security of Mary's happiness, besides frowning down
Gertrude's saucy comments, and trying to laugh away Tom's low growl
that good things always fell to the share of poor hearts and narrow
minds.  Mr. Cheviot did in fact cut a worse figure than George Rivers
of old, having a great fund of natural bashfulness and self-
consciousness, which did not much damage his dignity, but made his
attempts at gaiety and ease extremely awkward, not to say sheepish.
Perhaps the most trying moment was the last, when hearing a few words
between Ethel and Mary about posting a mere scrap, if only an empty
envelope, from the first resting-place, he turned round, with his
laugh, to object to rash promises, and remind his dear sister Ethel
that post-offices were not always near at hand!  After that, when
Mary in her bright tenderness hung round her sister, it was as if
that was the last fond grasp from the substance--as if only the
shadow would come back and live in Minster Street.

Perhaps it was because Ethel had tried to rule it otherwise, Mr.
Cheviot had insisted that the Cocksmoor children's share in the
festivity should be a dinner in the Whichcote hall, early in the day,
after which they had to be sent home, since no one chose to have the
responsibility of turning them loose to play in the Grammar-school
precincts, even in the absence of the boys.  Richard was much afraid
of their getting into mischief, and was off immediately after church
to superintend the dinner, and marshal them home; and the rest of the
world lost the resource that entertaining them generally afforded the
survivors after a marriage, and which was specially needed with the
two Cheviot sisters to be disposed of.  By the time the Riverses were
gone home, and the Ernescliffes and Harry off by the train, there
were still four mortal hours of daylight, and oh! for Mary's power of
making every one happy!

Caroline and Annie Cheviot were ladylike, nice-looking girls; but
when they found no croquet mallets in the garden, they seemed at a
loss what life had to offer at Stoneborough!  Gertrude pronounced
that 'she played at it sometimes at Maplewood, where she had nothing
better to do,' and then retreated to her own devices.  Ethel's heart
sank both with dread of the afternoon, and with self-reproach at her
spoilt child's discourtesy, whence she knew there would be no rousing
her without an incapacitating discussion; and on she wandered in the
garden with the guests, receiving instruction where the hoops might
be planted, and hearing how nice it would be for her sister to have
such an object, such a pleasant opportunity of meeting one's friends
--an interest for every day.  'No wonder they think I want an object
in life,' thought Ethel; 'how awfully tiresome I must be!  Poor
things, what can I say to make it pleasanter?--Do you know this
Dielytra?  I think it is the prettiest of modern flowers, but I wish
we might call it Japan fumitory, or by some English name.'

'I used to garden once, but we have no flower-beds now, they spoilt
the lawn for croquet.'

'And here comes Tom,' thought Ethel; 'poor Tom, he will certainly be
off to London this evening.'

Tom, however, joined the listless promenade; and the first time
croquet was again mentioned, observed that he had seen the Andersons
knocking about the balls in the new gardens by the river; and
proposed to go down and try to get up a match.  There was an instant
brightening, and Tom stepped into the drawing-room, and told Daisy to
come with them.

'To play at croquet with the Andersons in the tea-gardens!' she
exclaimed.  'No, I thank you, Thomas!'

He laid his hand on her shoulder--'Gertrude,' he said, 'it is time to
have done being a spoilt baby.  If you let Ethel fag herself ill, you
will rue it all your life.'

Frightened, but without clear comprehension, she turned two scared
eyes on him, and replaced the hat that she had thrown on the table,
just as Ethel and the others came in.

'Not you, Ethel,' said Tom; 'you don't know the game.'

'I can learn,' said Ethel, desperately bent on her duty.

'We would teach you,' volunteered the Cheviots.

'You would not undertake it if you knew better,' said Tom, smiling.
'Ethel's hands are not her strong point.'

'Ethel would just have to be croqued all through by her partner,'
said Gertrude.

'Besides, my father will be coming in and wanting you,' added Tom;
'he is only at the hospital or somewhere about the town.  I'll look
after this child.'

And the two sisters, delighted that poor little Gertrude should have
such a holiday treat as croquet in the public gardens, away from her
governess elder sister, walked off glorious; while Ethel, breathing
forth a heavy sigh, let herself sink into a chair, feeling as if the
silence were in itself invaluable, and as if Tom could not be enough
thanked for having gained it for her.

She was first roused by the inquiry, 'Shall I take in this letter,
ma'am? it is charged four shillings over-weight.  And it is for Mr.
Thomas, ma'am,' impressively concluded the parlour-maid, as one
penetrated by Mr. Thomas's regard to small economies.

Ethel beheld a letter bloated beyond the capacities of the two
bewigged Washingtons that kept guard in its corner, and addressed in
a cramped hand unknown to her; but while she hesitated, her eye fell
on another American letter directed to Miss Mary May, in Averil
Ward's well-known writing, and turning both round, she found they had
the same post-mark, and thereupon paid the extra charge, and placed
the letter where Tom was most likely to light naturally on it without
public comment.  The other letter renewed the pang at common property
being at an end.  'No, Mab,' she said, taking the little dog into her
lap, 'we shall none of us hear a bit of it!  But at least it is a
comfort that this business is over!  You needn't creep under sofas
now, there's nobody to tread upon your dainty little paws.  What is
to be done, Mab, to get out of a savage humour--except thinking how
good-natured poor Tom is!'

There was not much sign of savage humour in the face that was lifted
up as Dr. May came in from the hospital, and sitting down by his
daughter, put his arm round her.  'So there's another bird flown,' he
said.  'We shall soon have the old nest to ourselves, Ethel.'

'The Daisy is not going just yet,' said Ethel, stroking back the thin
flying flakes over his temples.  'If we may believe her, never!'

'Ah! she will be off before we can look round,' said the Doctor;
'when once the trick of marrying gets among one's girls, there's no
end to it, as long as they last out.'

'Nor to one's boys going out into the world,' said Ethel: both of
them talking as if she had been his wife, rather than one of these
fly-away younglings herself.

'Ah! well,' he said, 'it's very pretty while it lasts, and one keeps
the creatures; but after all, one doesn't rear them for one's own
pleasure.  That only comes by the way of their chance good-will to
one.'

'For shame, Doctor!' said Ethel, pretending to shake him by the
collar.

'I was thinking,' he added, 'that we must not require too much.
People must have their day, and in their own fashion; and I wish you
would tell Tom--I've no patience to do it myself--that I don't mean
to hamper him.  As long as it is a right line, he may take whichever
he pleases, and I'll do my best to set him forward in it; but it is a
pity--'

'Perhaps a few years of travelling, or of a professorship, might give
him time to think differently,' said Ethel.

'Not he,' said the Doctor; 'the more a man lives in the world, the
more he depends on it.  Where is the boy? is he gone without
vouchsafing a good-bye?'

'Oh no, he has taken pity on Annie and Caroline Cheviot's famine of
croquet, and gone with them to the gardens.'

'A spice of flirtation never comes amiss to him.'

'There, that's the way!' said Ethel, half-saucily, half-caressingly;
'that poor fellow never can do right!  Isn't it the very thing to
keep him away from home, that we all may steal a horse, and he can't
look over the wall, no, not with a telescope?'

'I can't help it, Ethel.  It may be very wrong and unkind of me--
Heaven forgive me if it is, and prevent me from doing the boy any
harm! but I never can rid myself of a feeling of there being
something behind when he seems the most straightforward.  If he had
only not got his grandfather's mouth and nose!  And,' smiling after
all--'I don't know what I said to be so scolded; all lads flirt, and
you can't deny that Master Tom divided his attentions pretty freely
last year between Mrs. Pugh and poor Ave Ward.'

'This time, I believe, it was out of pure kindness to me,' said
Ethel, 'so I am bound to his defence.  He dragged off poor Daisy to
chaperon them, that I might have a little peace.'

'Ah! he came down on us this morning,' said the Doctor, 'on Richard
and Flora and me, and gave us a lecture on letting you grow old,
Ethel--said you were getting over-tasked, and no one heeding it; and
looking--let's look'--and he took off his spectacles, put his hand on
her shoulder, and studied her face.

'Old enough to be a respectable lady of the house, I hope,' said
Ethel.

'Wiry enough for most things,' said the Doctor, patting her shoulder,
reassured; 'but we must take care, Ethel; if you don't fatten
yourself up, we shall have Flora coming and carrying you off to
London for a change, and for Tom to practise on.

'That is a threat!  I expected he had been prescribing for me
already, never to go near Cocksmoor, for that's what people always
begin by--'

'Nothing worse than pale ale.'  At which Ethel made one of her faces.
'And to make a Mary of that chit of a Daisy.  Well, you may do as you
please--only take care, or Flora will be down upon us.'

'Tom has been very helpful and kind to me,' said Ethel.  'And, papa,
he has seen Leonard, and he says he looked so noble that to shake
hands with him made him feel quite small.'

'I never heard anything so much to Tom's credit!  Well, and what did
he say of the dear lad?'

The next step was to mention Averil's letter to Mary, which could not
be sent on till tidings had been permitted by Mr. Cheviot.

'Let us see it,' said the Doctor.

'Do you think Charles Cheviot would like it?'

'Cheviot is a man of sense,' said the open-hearted Doctor, 'and there
may be something to authorize preventing this unlucky transfer of her
fortune.'

Nothing could be further from it; but it was a long and interesting
letter, written in evidently exhilarated spirits, and with a hopeful
description of the new scenes.  Ethel read it to her father, and he
told every one about it when they came in.  Tom manifested no
particular interest; but he did not go by the mail train that night,
and was not visible all the morning.  He caught Ethel alone however
at noon, and said, 'Ethel, I owe you this,' offering the amount she
had paid for the letter.

'Thank you,' she said, wondering if this was to be all she should
hear about it.

'I am going by the afternoon train,' he added; 'I have been over to
Blewer.  It is true, Ethel, the fellow can't stand it! he has sent
down a manager, and is always in London!  Most likely to dispose of
it by private contract there, they say.'

'And what has become of old Hardy?'

'Poor old fellow, he has struck work, looks terribly shaky.  He took
me for my father at first sight, and began to apologize most
plaintively--said no one else had ever done him any good.  I advised
him to come in and see my father, though he is too far gone to do
much for him.'

'Poor old man, can he afford to come in now?'

'Why, I helped him with the cart hire.  It is no use any way, he
knows no more than we do, and his case is confirmed; but he thinks he
has offended my father, and he'll die more in peace for having had
him again.  Look here, what a place they have got to.'

And without further explanation of the 'they,' Tom placed a letter in
Ethel's hands.

'My Dear Mr. Thomas,

'I send you the objects I promised for your microscope; I could not
get any before because we were in the city; but if you like these I
can get plenty more at Massissauga, where we are now.  We came here
last week, and the journey was very nice, only we went bump bump so
often, and once we stuck in a marsh, and were splashed all over.  We
are staying with Mr. Muller and Cora till our own house is quite
ready; it was only begun a fortnight ago, and we are to get in next
week.  I thought this would have been a town, it looked so big and so
square in the plan; but it is all trees still, and there are only
thirteen houses built yet.  Ours is all by itself in River Street,
and all the trees near it have been killed, and stand up all dead and
white, because nobody has time to cut them down.  It looks very
dismal, but Ave says it will be very nice by and by, and, Rufus
Muller says it has mammoth privileges.  I send you a bit of
rattlesnake skin.  They found fifteen of them asleep under a stone,
just where our house is built, and sometimes they come into the
kitchen.  I do not know the names of the other things I send; and I
could not ask Ave, for she said you would not want to be bothered
with a little girl's letter, and I was not to ask for an answer.
Rosa Willis says no young lady of my age would ask her sister's
permission, and not even her mother's, unless her mamma was very
intellectual and highly educated, and always saw the justice of her
arguments; but Minna and I do not mean to be like that.  I would tell
Ave if you did write to me, but she need not read it unless she
liked.
                       'I am, your affectionate little friend,
                                                           'ELLA.'


'Well!' said Tom, holding out his hand for more when she had restored
this epistle.  'You have heard all there was in it, except--'

'Except what I want to see.'

And Ethel, as she had more or less intended all along, let him have
Averil's letter, since the exception was merely a few tender words of
congratulation to Mary.  The worst had been done already by her
father; and it may here be mentioned that though nothing was said in
answer to her explanation of the opening of the letter, the head-
master never recovered the fact, and always attributed it to his dear
sister Ethel.

'For the future,' said Tom, as he gave back the thin sheets, 'they
will all be for the Cheviots' private delectation.'

'I shall begin on my own score,' said Ethel.  'You know if you answer
this letter, you must not mention that visit of yours, or you will be
prohibited, and one would not wish to excite a domestic secession.'

'It would serve the unnatural scoundrel right,' said Tom.  'Well, I
must go and put up my things.  You'll keep me up to what goes on at
home, and if there's anything out there to tell Leonard--'

'Wait a moment, Tom!'--and she told him what the Doctor had said
about his plans.

'Highly educated and intellectual,' was all the answer that Tom
vouchsafed; and whether he were touched or not she could not gather.

Yet her spirit felt less weary and burdened, and more full of hope
than it had been for a long time past.  Averil's letter showed the
exhilaration of the change, and of increasing confidence and comfort
in her friend Cora Muller.  Cora's Confirmation had brought the girls
into contact with the New York clergy, and had procured them an
introduction to the clergyman of Winiamac, the nearest church, so
that there was much less sense of loneliness, moreover, the fuller
and more systematic doctrine, and the development of the beauty and
daily guidance of the Church, had softened the bright American girl,
so as to render her infinitely dearer to her English friend, and they
were as much united as they could be, where the great leading event
of the life of one remained a mystery to the other.  Yet perhaps it
helped to begin a fresh life, that the intimate companion of that new
course should be entirely disconnected with the past.

Averil threw herself into the present with as resolute a will as she
could muster.  With much spirit she described the arrival at the
Winiamac station, and the unconcealed contempt with which the mass of
luggage was regarded by the Western world, who 'reckoned it would be
fittest to make kindlings with.'  Heavy country wagons were to bring
the furniture; the party themselves were provided for by a light
wagon and a large cart, driven by Cora's brother, Mordaunt, and by
the farming-man, Philetus, a gentleman who took every occasion of
asserting his equality, if not his superiority to the new-comers;
demanded all the Christian names, and used them without prefix; and
when Henry impressively mentioned his eldest sister as Miss Warden,
stared and said, 'Why, Doctor, I thought she was not your old
woman!'--the Western epithet of a wife.  But as Cora was quite
content to leave Miss behind her in civilized society, and as they
were assured that to stand upon ceremony would leave them without
domestic assistance, the sisters had implored Henry to waive all
preference for a polite address.

The loveliness of the way was enchanting--the roads running straight
as an arrow through glorious forest lands of pine, beech, maple, and
oak, in the full glory of spring, and the perspective before and
behind making a long narrowing green bower of meeting branches; the
whole of the borders of the road covered with lovely flowers--May-
wings, a butterfly-like milkwort, pitcher-plant, convolvulus; new
insects danced in the shade--golden orioles, blue birds, the great
American robin, the field officer, with his orange epaulettes,
glanced before them.  Cora was in ecstasy at the return to forest
scenery, the Wards at its novelty, and the escape from town.  Too
happy were they at first to care for the shaking and bumping of the
road, and the first mud-hole into which they plunged was almost a
joke, under Mordaunt Muller's assurances that it was easy fording,
though the splashes flew far and wide.  Then there was what Philetus
called 'a mash with a real handsome bridge over it,' i. e. a
succession of tree trunks laid side by side for about a quarter of a
mile.  Here the female passengers insisted on walking--even Cora,
though her brother and Philetus both laughed her to scorn; and more
especially for her foot-gear, delicate kid boots, without which no
city damsel stirred.  Averil and her sisters, in the English boots
scorned at New York, had their share in the laugh, while picking
their way from log to log, hand in hand, and exciting Philetus's
further disdain by their rapture with the glorious flowers of the
bog.

But where was Massissauga?  Several settlements had been passed, the
houses looking clean and white in forest openings, with fields where
the lovely spring green of young maize charmed the eye.

At last the road grew desolate.  There were a few patches of corn, a
few squalid-looking log or frame houses, a tract of horrible dreary
blackness; and still more horrible, beyond it was a region of
spectres--trees white and stripped bare, lifting their dead arms like
things blasted.  Averil cried out in indignant horror, 'Who has done
this?'

'We have,' answered Mordaunt.  'This is Maclellan Square, Miss
Warden, and there's River Street,' pointing down an avenue of
skeletons.  'If you could go to sleep for a couple of years, you
would wake up to find yourself in a city such as I would not fear to
compare with any in Europe.  Your exhausted civilization is not as
energetic as ours, I calculate.'

The energetic young colonist turned his horse's head up a slight
rising ground, where something rather more like habitation appeared;
a great brick-built hotel, and some log houses, with windows
displaying the wares needed for daily consumption, and a few farm
buildings.  It was backed by corn-fields; and this was the great
Maclellan Street, the chief ornament of Massissauga.  Not one house
had the semblance of a garden; the wilderness came up to the very
door, except where cattle rendered some sort of enclosure necessary.

Cora exclaimed, 'Oh, Mordaunt, I thought you would have had a garden
for me!'

'I can fix it any time you like,' said he; 'but you'll be the
laughing-stock of the place, and never keep a flower.'

The Mullers' abode was a sound substantial log house, neatly
whitened, and with green shutters, bearing a festal appearance, full
of welcome, as Mr. Muller, his tall bearded son Rufus, and a thin but
motherly-looking elderly woman, came forth to meet the travellers;
and in the front, full stare, stood a trollopy-looking girl, every
bar of her enormous hoop plainly visible through her washed-out
flimsy muslin.  This was Miss Ianthe, who condescended to favour the
family with her assistance till she should have made up dollars
enough to buy a new dress!  The elder woman, who went by the name of
Cousin Deborah, would have been a housekeeper in England--here she
was one of the family--welcomed Cora with an exchange of kisses, and
received the strangers with very substantial hospitality, though with
pity at their unfitness for their new home, and utter incredulity as
to their success.

Here the Wards had been since their arrival.  Their frame-house, near
the verdant bank of the river, was being finished for them; and a
great brass plate, with Henry's new name and his profession, had
already adorned the door.  The furniture was coming; Cousin Deborah
had hunted up a Cleopatra Betsy, who might perhaps stay with them if
she were treated on terms of equality, a field was to be brought into
cultivation as soon as any labour could be had.  Minna was looking
infinitely better already, and Averil and Cora were full of designs
for rival housewifery, Averil taking lessons meantime in ironing,
dusting, and the arts of the kitchen, and trusting that in the two
years' time, the skeletons would have given place--if not indeed to
houses, to well-kept fields.  Such was her account.

How much was reserved for fear of causing anxiety?  Who could guess?




CHAPTER XXI



                 Quanto si fende
La rocca per dar via a chi va suso
N'andai 'nfino ove'l cerchiar si prende
Com'io nel quinto giro fui dischiuso
Vidi gente per esso che piangea
Glacendo a terra tutta volta in giuso
Adhaesit pavimento anima mia
Sentia dir loro con si alti sospiri
Che la parola appena s'intendea.
'O eletti di Deo, i cui soffriri
E giustizia e speranza fan men duri--'
                               DANTE. Purgatorio



Ah, sir, we have learnt the way to get your company,' said Hector
Ernescliffe, as he welcomed his father-in-law at Maplewood; 'we have
only to get under sentence.'

'Sick or sorry, Hector; that's the attraction to an old doctor.'

'And,' added Hector, with the importance of his youthful magisterial
dignity, 'I hope I have arranged matters for you to see him.  I wrote
about it; but I am afraid you will not be able to see him alone.'

Great was the satisfaction with which Hector took the conduct of the
expedition to Portland Island; though he was inclined to encumber it
with more lionizing than the good Doctor's full heart was ready for.
Few words could he obtain, as in the bright August sunshine they
steamed out from the pier at Weymouth, and beheld the gray sides of
the island, scarred with stone quarries, stretching its lengthening
breakwater out on one side, and on the other connected with the land
by the pale dim outline of the Chesill Bank.  The water was dancing
in golden light; white-sailed or red-sailed craft plied across it; a
ship of the line lay under the lee of the island, practising gunnery,
the three bounds of her balls marked by white columns of spray each
time of touching the water, pleasure parties crowded the steamer; but
to Dr. May the cheerfulness of the scene made a depressing contrast
to the purpose of his visit, as he fixed his eyes on the squared
outline of the crest of the island, and the precipitous slope from
thence to the breakwater, where trains of loaded trucks rushed forth
to the end, discharged themselves, and hurried back.

Landing at the quay, in the midst of confusion, Hector smiled at the
Doctor's innocent proposal of walking, and bestowed him in a little
carriage, with a horse whose hard-worked patience was soon called
out, as up and up they went, through the narrow, but lively street,
past the old-fashioned inn, made memorable by a dinner of George
III.; past the fossil tree, clamped against a house like a vine; past
heaps of slabs ready for transport, a church perched up high on the
slope, and a parsonage in a place that looked only accessible to
goats.  Lines of fortification began to reveal themselves, and the
Doctor thought himself arrived, but he was to wind further on, and be
more struck with the dreariness and inhospitality of the rugged rock,
almost bare of vegetation, the very trees of stone, and older than
our creation; the melancholy late ripening harvest within stone
walls, the whole surface furrowed by stern rents and crevices riven
by nature, or cut into greater harshness by the quarries hewn by man.
The grave strangeness of the region almost marked it out for a place
of expiation, like the mountain rising desolate from the sea, where
Dante placed his prisoners of hope.

The walls of a vast enclosure became visible; and over them might be
seen the tops of great cranes, looking like the denuded ribs of
umbrellas.  Buildings rose beyond, with deep arched gateways; and a
small town was to be seen further off.  Mr. Ernescliffe sent in his
card at the governor's house, and found that the facilities he had
asked for had been granted.  They were told that the prisoner they
wished to see was at work at some distance; and while he was
summoned, they were to see the buildings.  Dr. May had little heart
for making a sight of them, except so far as to judge of Leonard's
situation; and he was passively conducted across a gravelled court,
turfed in the centre, and containing a few flower-beds, fenced in by
Portland's most natural productions, zamias and ammonites, together
with a few stone coffins, which had once inclosed corpses of soldiers
of the Roman garrison.  Large piles of building inclosed the
quadrangle; and passing into the first of these, the Doctor began to
realize something of Leonard's present existence.  There lay before
him the broad airy passage, and either side the empty cells of this
strange hive, as closely packed, and as chary of space, as the
compartments of the workers of the honeycomb.

'Just twice as wide as a coffin,' said Hector, doing the honours of
one, where there was exactly width to stand up between the bed and
the wall of corrugated iron; 'though, happily, there is more
liberality of height.'

There was a ground glass window opposite to the door, and a shelf,
holding a Bible, Prayer and hymn book, and two others, one religious,
and one secular, from the library.  A rust-coloured jacket, with a
black patch marked with white numbers, and a tarpaulin hat, crossed
with two lines of red paint on the crown, hung on the wall.  The
Doctor asked for Leonard's cell, but it was in a distant gallery, and
he was told that when he had seen one, he had seen all.  He asked if
these were like those that Leonard had previously inhabited at
Milbank and Pentonville, and hearing that they were on the same
model, he almost gasped at the thought of the young enterprising
spirit thus caged for nine weary months, and to whom this bare
confined space was still the only resting-place.  He could not look
by any means delighted with the excellence of the arrangements, grant
it though he might; and he was hurried on to the vast kitchens, their
ranges of coppers full of savoury steaming contents, and their racks
of loaves looking all that was substantial and wholesome; but his
eyes were wandering after the figures engaged in cooking, to whom he
was told such work was a reward; he was trying to judge how far they
could still enjoy life; but he turned from their stolid low stamp of
face with a sigh, thinking how little their condition could tell him
of that of a cultivated nature.

He was shown the chapel, unfortunately serving likewise for a
schoolroom; the centre space fitted for the officials and their
families, the rest with plain wooden benches.  But it was not an hour
for schooling, and he went restlessly on to the library, to gather
all the consolation he could from seeing that the privation did not
extend to that of sound and interesting literature.  He had yet to
see the court, where the prisoners were mustered at half-past five in
the morning, thence to be marched off in their various companies to
work.  He stood on the terrace from which the officials marshalled
them, and he was called on to look at the wide and magnificent view
of sea and land; but all he would observe to Hector was, 'That boy's
throat has always been tender since the fever.'  He was next
conducted to the great court, the quarry of the stones of the present
St. Paul's, and where the depression of the surface since work began
there, was marked by the present height of what had become a steep
conical edifice, surmounted by a sort of watch-tower.  There he grew
quite restive, and hearing a proposal of taking him to the Verne Hill
works half a mile off, he declared that Hector was welcome to go; he
should wait for his boy.

Just then the guide pointed out at some distance a convict
approaching under charge of a warder; and in a few seconds more, the
Doctor had stepped back to a small room, where, by special favour, he
was allowed to be with the prisoner, instead of seeing him through a
grating, but only in the presence of a warder, who was within
hearing, though not obtrusively so.  Looking, to recognize, not to
examine, he drew the young man into his fatherly embrace.

'You have hurt your hands,' was his first word, at the touch of the
bruised fingers and broken skin.

'They are getting hardened,' was the answer, in an alert tone, that
gave the Doctor courage to look up and meet an unquenched glance;
though there was the hollow look round the eyes that Tom had noticed,
the face had grown older, the expression more concentrated, the
shoulders had rounded; the coarse blue shirt and heavy boots were
dusty with the morning's toil, and the heat and labour of the day had
left their tokens, but the brow was as open, the mouth as ingenuous
as ever, the complexion had regained a hue of health, and the air of
alacrity and exhilaration surprised as much as it gratified the
visitor.

'What is your work?' he asked.

'Filling barrows with stones, and wheeling them to the trucks for the
breakwater,' answered Leonard, in a tone like satisfaction.  'But
pray, if you are so kind, tell me,' he continued, with anxiety that
he could not suppress, 'what is this about war in America?'

'Not near Indiana; no fear of that, I trust.  But how did you know,
Leonard?'

'I saw, for one moment at a time, in great letters on a placard of
the contents of newspapers, at the stations as we came down here, the
words, 'Civil War in America;' and it has seemed to be in the air
here ever since.  But Averil has said nothing in her letters.  Will
it affect them?'

The Doctor gave a brief sketch of what was passing, up to the battle
of Bull Run; and his words were listened to with such exceeding
avidity, that he was obliged to spend more minutes than he desired on
the chances of the war, and the Massissauga tidings, which he wished
to make sound more favourable than he could in conscience feel that
they were; but when at last he had detailed all he knew from Averil's
letters, and it had been drunk in with glistening eyes, and manner
growing constantly less constrained, he led back to Leonard himself:
'Ethel will write at once to your sister when I get home; and I think
I may tell her the work agrees with you.'

'Yes; and this is man's work; and it is for the defences,' he added,
with a sparkle of the eye.

'Very hard and rough,' returned the Doctor, looking again at the
wounded hands and hard-worked air.

'Oh, but to put out one's strength again, and have room!' cried the
boy, eagerly.

'Was it not rather a trying change at first?'

'To be sure I was stiff, and didn't know how to move in the morning,
but that went off fast enough; and I fill as many barrows a day as
any one in our gang.'

'Then I may tell your sister you rejoice in the change?'

'Why, it's work one does not get deadly sick of, as if there was no
making one's self do it,' said Leonard, eagerly; 'it is work! and
besides, here is sunshine and sea.  I can get a sight of that every
day; and now and then I can get a look into the bay, and Weymouth--
looking like the old time.'  That was his first sorrowful intonation;
but the next had the freshness of his age, 'And there are thistles!'

'Thistles?'

'I thought you cared for thistles; for Miss May showed me one at
Coombe; but it was not like what they are here--the spikes pointing
out and pointing in along the edges of the leaves, and the scales
lapping over so wonderfully in the bud.'

'Picciola!' said the Doctor to himself; and aloud,  'Then you have
time to enjoy them?'

'When we are at work at a distance, dinner is brought out, and there
is an hour and a half of rest; and on Sunday we may walk about the
yards.  You should have seen one of our gang, when I got him to look
at the chevaux de frise round a bud, how he owned it was a regular
patent invention; it just answered to Paley's illustration.'

'What, the watch?' said the Doctor, seeing that the argument had been
far from trite to his young friend.  'So you read Paley?'

'I read all such books as I could get up there,' he answered; 'they
gave one something to think about.'

'Have you no time for reading here?'

'Oh, no!  I am too sleepy to read except on school days and Sundays,'
he said, as if this were a great achievement.

'And your acquaintance--is he a reader of Paley too?'

'I believe the chaplain set him on it.  He is a clerk, like me, and
not much older.  He is a regular Londoner, and can hardly stand the
work; but he won't give in if he can help it, or we might not be
together.'

Much the Doctor longed to ask what sort of a friend this might be,
but the warder's presence forbade him; and he could only ask what
they saw of each other.

'We were near one another in school at Pentonville, and knew each
other's faces quite well, so that we were right glad to be put into
the same gang.  We may walk about the yard together on Sunday evening
too.'

The Doctor had other questions on his lips that he again restrained,
and only asked whether the Sundays were comfortable days.

'Oh, yes,' said Leonard, eagerly; but then he too recollected the
official, and merely said something commonplace about excellent
sermons, adding, 'And the singing is admirable.  Poor Averil would
envy such a choir as we have!  We sing so many of the old Bankside
hymns.'

'To make your resemblance to Dante's hill of penitence complete, as
Ethel says,' returned the Doctor.

'I should like it to be a hill of purification!' said Leonard,
understanding him better than he had expected.

'It will, I think,' said the Doctor, 'to one at least.  I am
comforted to see you so brave.  I longed to come sooner, but--'

'I am glad you did not.'

'How?'  But he did not pursue the question, catching from look and
gesture, that Leonard could hardly have then met him with self-
possession; and as the first bulletin of recovery is often the first
disclosure of the severity of an illness, so the Doctor was more
impressed by the prisoner's evident satisfaction in his change of
circumstances, than he would have been by mere patient resignation;
and he let the conversation be led away to Aubrey's prospects, in
which Leonard took full and eager interest.

'Tell Aubrey I am working at fortifications too,' he said, smiling.

'He could not go to Cambridge without you.'

'I don't like to believe that,' said Leonard, gravely; 'it is
carrying the damage I have done further: but it can't be.  He always
was fond of mathematics, and of soldiering.  How is it at the old
mill?' he added, suddenly.

'It is sold.'

'Sold?' and his eyes were intently fixed on the Doctor.

'Yes, he is said to have been much in debt long before; but it was
managed quietly--not advertised in the county papers.  He went to
London, and arranged it all.  I saw great renovations going on at the
mill, when I went to see old Hardy.'

'Good old Hardy! how is he?'

'Much broken.  He never got over the shock; and as long as that
fellow stayed at the mill, he would not let me attend him.'

'Ha!' exclaimed Leonard, but caught himself up.

A message came that Mr. Ernescliffe feared to miss the boat; and the
Doctor could only give one tender grasp and murmured blessing, and
hurry away, so much agitated that he could hardly join in Hector's
civilities to the officials, and all the evening seemed quite struck
down and overwhelmed by the sight of the bright brave boy, and his
patience in his dreary lot.

After this, at all the three months' intervals at which Leonard might
be seen, a visit was contrived to him, either by Dr. May or Mr.
Wilmot; and Aubrey devoted his first leave of absence to staying at
Maplewood, that Hector might take him to his friend; but he came home
expatiating so much on the red hair of the infant hope of Maplewood,
and the fuss that Blanche made about this new possession, that Ethel
detected an unavowed shade of disappointment.  Light and whitewash,
abundant fare, garments sufficient, but eminently unbecoming, were
less impressive than dungeons, rags, and bread and water; when,
moreover, the prisoner claimed no pity, but rather congratulation on
his badge of merit, improved Sunday dinner, and promotion to the
carpenter's shop, so as absolutely to excite a sense of wasted
commiseration and uninteresting prosperity.  Conversation constrained
both by the grating and the presence of the warder, and Aubrey, more
tenderly sensitive than his brother, and devoid of his father's
experienced tact, was too much embarrassed to take the initiative,
was afraid of giving pain by dwelling on his present occupations and
future hopes, and confused Leonard by his embarrassment.  Hector
Ernescliffe discoursed about Charleston Harbour and New Orleans; and
Aubrey stood with downcast eyes, afraid to seem to be scanning the
convict garb, and thus rendering Leonard unusually conscious of
wearing it.  Then when in parting, Aubrey, a little less embarrassed,
began eagerly and in much emotion to beg Leonard to say if there was
anything he could get for him, anything he could do for him, anything
he would like to have sent him, and began to promise a photograph of
his father, Leonard checked him, by answering that it would be an
irregularity--nothing of personal property was allowed to be retained
by a prisoner.

Aubrey forgot all but the hardship, and began an outburst about the
tyranny.

'It is quite right,' said Leonard, gravely; 'there is nothing that
might not be used for mischief if one chose.'

And the warder here interfered, and said he was quite right, and it
always turned out best in the end for a prisoner to conform himself,
and his friends did him no good by any other attempt, as Mr.
Ernescliffe could tell the young gentleman.  The man's tone, though
neither insolent nor tyrannical, but rather commendatory of his
charge, contrasting with his natural deference to the two gentlemen,
irritated poor Aubrey beyond measure, so that Hector was really glad
to have him safe away, without his having said anything treasonable
to the authorities.  The meeting, so constrained and uncomfortable,
had but made the friends more vividly conscious of the interval
between the cadet and the convict, and, moreover, tended to remove
the aureole of romance with which the unseen captive had been
invested by youthful fancy.

To make the best of a prolonged misfortune does absolutely lessen
sympathy, by diminishing the interest of the situation; and even the
good Doctor himself was the less concerned at any hindrance to his
visits to Portland, as he uniformly found his prisoner cheerful,
approved by officials, and always making some small advance in the
scale of his own world, and not, as his friends without expected of
him, showing that he felt himself injured instead of elated by such
rewards as improved diet, or increased gratuities to be set to his
account against the time when, after eight years, he might hope for
exportation with a ticket of leave to Western Australia.

The halo of approaching death no longer lighted him up, and after the
effusion of the first meeting, his inner self had closed up, he was
more ready to talk of American news than of his own feelings, and
seemed to look little beyond the petty encouragements devised to suit
the animal natures of ordinary prisoners, and his visitors sometimes
feared lest his character were not resisting the deadening, hardening
influence of the unvaried round of manual labour among such
associates.  He had been soon advanced from the quarry to the
carpenter's shop, and was in favour there from his activity and
skill; but his very promotions were sad--and it was more sad, as some
thought, for him to be gratified by them.  But, as Dr. May always
ended, what did they know about him?




CHAPTER XXII



Oh, Bessie Bell and Mary Grey,
They were twa bonnie lasses;
They bigged a bower on yon burn side,
And theekt it over wi' rashes.


The early glory of autumn was painting the woods of Indiana--crimson,
orange, purple, as though a rainbow of intensified tints had been
broken into fragments, and then scattered broadcast upon the forest.
But though ripe nuts hung on many a bough, the gipsyings had not yet
taken place, except at home--when Minna, in her desperate attempts at
making the best of things, observed, 'Now we have to make the fire
ourselves, let us think it is all play, and such fun.'

But 'such fun' was hard when one or other of the inmates of the house
was lying on the bed shaking with ague, and the others creeping
wearily about, even on their intermediate days.  They had been
deluded into imprudent exposure in the lovely evenings of summer, and
had never shaken off the results.

'Come, Ella,' said Minna, one afternoon, as she descended the bare
rickety stairs, 'Ave is getting better; and if we can get the fire
up, and make some coffee and boil some eggs, it will be comfortable
for her when she comes down and Henry comes in.'

Ella, with a book in her hand, was curled up in a corner of a sofa
standing awry among various other articles of furniture that seemed
to have tumbled together by chance within the barn-like room.  Minna
began moving first one and then the other, daintily wiping off the
dust, and restoring an air of comfort.

'Oh dear!' said Ella, unfolding herself; 'I am so tired.  Where's
Hetta Mary?'

'Oh, don't you know, Hetta Mary went home this morning because Henry
asked her where his boots were, and she thought he wanted her to
clean them.'

'Can't Mrs. Shillabeer come in!'

'Mrs. Shillabeer said she would never come in again, because Averil
asked her not to hold the ham by the bone and cut it with her own
knife when Henry was there!  Come, Ella it is of no use.  We had
better do things ourselves, like Cora and Ave, and then we shall not
hear people say disagreeable things.'

The once soft, round, kitten-like Minna, whom Leonard used to roll
about on the floor, had become a lank, sallow girl, much too tall for
her ten years, and with a care-stricken, thoughtful expression on her
face, even more in advance of her age than was her height.  She moved
into the kitchen, a room with an iron stove, a rough table, and a few
shelves, looking very desolate. The hands of both little girls had
become expert in filling the stove with wood, and they had not far to
seek before both it and the hearth in the sitting-room were
replenished, and the flame beginning to glow.

'Where's the coffee-mill?' said Minna, presently, looking round in
blank despair.

'Oh dear!' said Ella, 'I remember now; that dirty little Polly Mason
came to borrow it this morning.  I said we wanted it every day: but
she guessed we could do without it, for they had got a tea-party, and
her little brother had put in a stone and spoilt Cora Muller's; and
she snatched it up and carried it off.'

'He will serve ours the same, I suppose,' said Minna.  'It is too far
off to go for it; let us make some tea.'

'There's no tea,' said Ella; 'a week ago or more that great Irene
Brown walked in and reckoned we could lend her 'ma some tea and
sugar, 'cause we had plenty.  And we have used up our own since; and
if we did ask her to return the loan, hers is such nasty stuff that
nobody could drink it. What shall we do, Minna?' and she began to
cry.

'We must take some coffee up to the hotel,' said Minna, after a
moment's reflection; 'Black Joe is very good-natured, and he'll grind
it.'

'But I don't like to go ail by myself,' said Ella; 'into the kitchen
too, and hear them say things about Britishers.'

'I'll go, dear,' said Minna, gently, 'if you will just keep the fire
up, and boil the eggs, and make the toast, and listen if Ave calls.'

Poor Minna, her sensitive little heart trembled within her at the
rough contemptuous words that the exclusive, refined tone of the
family always provoked, and bodily languor and weariness made the
walk trying; but she was thinking of Ave's need, and resolutely took
down her cloak and hat.  But at that moment the latch was raised, and
the bright graceful figure of Cora stood among them, her feathered
hat and delicate muslin looking as fresh as at New York.

'What, all alone!' she said; 'I know it is poor Ave's sick day.  Is
she better?'

'Yes, going to get up and come down; but--' and all the troubles were
poured out.

'True enough, the little wretch did spoil our mill, but Rufus mended
it; and as I thought Polly had been marauding on you, I brought some
down.'

'Ah!  I thought I smelt it most deliciously as you came in, but I was
afraid I only fancied it because I was thinking about it.  Dear Cora,
how good you are!'

'And have you anything for her to eat?'

'I was going to make some toast.'

'Of that dry stuff!  Come, we'll manage something better:' and off
came the dainty embroidered cambric sleeves, up went the coloured
ones, a white apron came out of a pocket, and the pretty hands were
busy among the flour; the children assisting, learning, laughing a
childlike laugh.

'Ah!' cried Cora, turning round, and making a comic threatening
gesture with her floury fingers; 'you ought not to have come till we
were fixed.  Go and sit in your chair by the fire.'

'Dear Cora!'

But Cora ran at her, and the wan trembling creature put on a smile,
and was very glad to comply; being totally unequal to resist or even
to stand long enough to own her dread of Henry's finding all desolate
and nothing to eat.

Presently Cora tripped in, all besleeved and smartened, to set
cushions behind the tired back and head, and caress the long thin
fingers.  'I've left Minna, like King Alfred, to watch the cakes,'
she said; 'and Ella is getting the cups.  So your fifth girl is
gone.'

'The fifth in five months!  And we let her sit at table, and poor
dear Minna has almost worn out her life in trying to hinder her from
getting affronted.'

'I've thought what to do for you, Ave.  There's the Irish woman,
Katty Blake--her husband has been killed.  She is rough enough, but
tender in her way; and she must do something for herself and her
child.'

'Her husband killed!'

'Yes, at Summerville.  I thought you had heard it.  Mordaunt wrote to
me to tell her; and I shall never forget her wailing at his dying
away from his country.  It was not lamentation for herself, but that
he should have died far away from his own people.'

'She is not long from the old country; I should like to have her if--
if we can afford it.  For if the dividends don't come soon from that
building company, Cora, I don't know where to turn--'

'Oh, they must come.  Father has been writing to Rufus about the
arrangements.  Besides, those Irish expect less, and understand old
country manners better, if you can put up with their breakages.'

'I could put up with anything to please Henry, and save Minna's
little hard-worked bones.'

'I will send her to-morrow.  Is it not Minna's day of ague?'

'Yes, poor dear.  That is always the day we get into trouble.'

'I never saw a child with such an instinct for preventing variance,
or so full of tact and pretty ways; yet I have seen her tremble under
her coaxing smile, that even Mis' Shillabeer can't resist.'

'See, see!' cried Ella, hurrying in, 'surely our contingent is not
coming home!'

'No,' said Cora, hastening to the door, 'these must be a
reinforcement marching to take the train at Winiamac.'

'Marching?' said Ella, looking up archly at her.  'We didn't let our
volunteers march in that way.'

They were sturdy bearded backwoodsmen, rifle on shoulder, and with
grave earnest faces; but walking rather than marching, irregularly
keeping together, or straggling, as they chose.

'Your volunteers!' cried Cora, her eyes flashing; 'theirs was toy
work!  These are bound for real patriotic war!' and she clasped her
hands together, then waved her handkerchief.

'It is sad,' said Averil, who had moved to the window, 'to see so
many elderly faces--men who must be the prop of their families.'

'It is because ours is a fight of men, not of children; not one of
your European wars of paltry ambition, but a war of principle!' cried
Cora, with that intensity of enthusiasm that has shed so much blood
in the break-up of the Great Republic.

'They do look as Cromwell's Ironsides may have done,' said Averil;
'as full of stern purpose.'

And verily Averil noted the difference.  Had a number of European
soldiers been passing so near in an equally undisciplined manner,
young women could not have stood forth as Cora was doing,
unprotected, yet perfectly safe from rudeness or remark; making ready
answer to the inquiry for the nearest inn--nay, only wishing she were
in her own house, to evince her patriotism by setting refreshment
before the defenders of her cause.  Her ardour had dragged Averil up
with her a little way, so as to feel personally every vicissitude
that befell the North, and to be utterly unaware of any argument in
favour of the Confederates; but still Averil was, in Cora's words,
'too English;' she could not, for the life of her, feel as she did
when equipping her brother against possible French invasions, and
when Mordaunt Muller had been enrolled in the Federal army, she had
almost offended the exultant sister by condolence instead of
congratulation.

Five months had elapsed since the arrival of Averil in Massissauga--
months of anxiety and disappointment, which had sickened Henry of
plans of farming, and lessened his hopes of practice.  The same
causes that affected him at New York told in Indiana; and even if he
had been employed, the fees would have been too small to support the
expense of horses.  As to farming, labour was scarce, and could only
be obtained at the cost of a considerable outlay, and, moreover, of
enduring rude self-assertions that were more intolerable to Henry
than even to his sisters.  The chief hope of the family lay in the
speculation in which Averil's means had been embarked, which gave
them a right to their present domicile, and to a part of the
uncleared waste around them; and would, when Massissauga should begin
to flourish, place them in affluence.  The interest of the portions
of the two younger girls was all that was secure, since these were
fortunately still invested at home.  Inhabitants did not come, lots
of land were not taken; and the Mullers evidently profited more by
the magnificent harvest produced by their land than by the adventure
of city founding.  Still, plenty and comfort reigned in their house,
and Cora had imported a good deal of refinement and elegance, which
she could make respected where Averil's attempts were only sneered
down.  Nor had sickness tried her household.  Owing partly to
situation--considerably above the level of River Street--partly to
the freer, more cleared and cultivated surroundings--partly likewise
to experience, and Cousin Deborah's motherly watchfulness--the summer
had passed without a visitation of ague, though it seemed to be
regarded as an adjunct of spring, as inevitable as winter frost.
Averil trembled at the thought, but there was no escape; there were
absolutely no means of leaving the spot, or of finding maintenance
elsewhere.  Indeed, Cora's constant kindness and sympathy were too
precious to be parted with, even had it been possible to move.  After
the boarding-house, Massissauga was a kind of home; and the more
spirits and energy failed, the more she clung to it.

Mr. Muller had lately left home to arrange for the sale of his corn,
and had announced that he might perhaps pay a visit to his son
Mordaunt in the camp at Lexington.  Cora was expecting a letter from
him, and the hope that 'Dr. Warden' might bring one from the post-
office at Winiamac had been one cause of her visit on this afternoon;
for the mammoth privileges of Massissauga did not include a post-
office, nor the sight of letters more than once a week.

The table had just been covered with preparations for a meal, and the
glow of the fire was beginning to brighten the twilight, when the
sound of a horse's feet came near, and Henry rode past the window,
but did not appear for a considerable space, having of late been
reduced to become his own groom.  But even in the noise of the hoofs,
even in the wave of the hand, the girls had detected gratified
excitement.

'Charleston has surrendered!  The rebels have submitted!' cried Cora.

And Averil's heart throbbed with its one desperate hope.  No!  _That_
would have brought him in at once.

After all, both were in a state to feel it a little flat when he came
in presenting a letter to Miss Muller, and announcing, 'I have had a
proposal, ladies; what would you say to seeing me a surgeon to the
Federal forces?--Do you bid me go, Miss Muller?'

'I bid every one go who can be useful to my country,' said Cora.

'Don't look alarmed, Averil,' said Henry, affectionately, as he met
her startled eyes; 'there is no danger.  A surgeon need never expose
himself.'

'But how--what has made you think of it?' asked Averil, faintly.

'A letter from Mr. Muller--a very kind letter.  He tells me that
medical men are much wanted, and that an examination by a Board is
all that is required, the remuneration is good, and it will be an
introduction that will avail me after the termination of the war,
which will end with the winter at latest.'

'And father has accepted an office in the commissariat department!'
exclaimed Cora, from her letter.

'Yes,' answered Henry; 'he tells me that, pending more progression
here, it is wiser for us both to launch into the current of public
events, and be floated upwards by the stream.'

'Does he want you to come to him, Cora?' was all that Averil
contrived to say.

'Oh no, he will be in constant locomotion,' said Cora.  'I shall stay
to keep house for Rufus.  And here are some directions for him that I
must carry home.  Don't come, Dr. Warden; I shall never cure you of
thinking we cannot stir without an escort.  You will want to put a
little public spirit into this dear Ave.  That's her one defect; and
when you are one of us, she will be forced to give us her heart.'

And away ran the bright girl, giving her caresses to each sister as
she went.

The little ones broke out, 'O, Henry, Henry, you must not go away to
the wars!' and Averil's pleading eyes spoke the same.

Then Henry sat down and betook himself to argument.  It would be
folly to lose the first opening to employment that had presented
itself.  He grieved indeed to leave his sisters in this desolate,
unhealthy place; but they were as essentially safe as at
Stoneborough; their living alone for a few weeks, or at most months,
would be far less remarkable here than there; and he would be likely
to be able to improve or to alter their present situation, whereas
they were now sinking deeper and more hopelessly into poverty every
day.  Then, too, he read aloud piteous accounts of the want of
medical attendance, showing that it was absolutely a cruelty to
detain such assistance from the sick and wounded.  This argument was
the one most appreciated by Averil and Minna.  The rest were but
questions of prudence; this touched their hearts.  Men lying in close
tents, or in crowded holds of ships, with festering wounds and
fevered lips, without a hand to help them--some, too, whom they had
seen at New York, and whose exulting departure they had witnessed--
sufferers among whom their own Cora's favourite brother might at any
moment be numbered--the thought brought a glow of indignation against
themselves for having wished to withhold him.

'Yes, go, Henry; it is right, and you shall hear not another word of
objection,' said Averil.

'You can write or telegraph the instant you want me.  And it will be
for a short time,' said Henry, half repenting when the opposition had
given way.

'Oh, we shall get on very well,' said Minna, cheerfully; 'better,
perhaps for you know we don't mind Far West manners; and I'll have
learnt to do all sorts of things as well as Cora when you come home!'

And Henry, after a year's famine of practice, was in better spirits
than since that fatal summer morning.  Averil felt how different a
man is in his vocation, and deprived of it.

'Oh yes,' she said to herself, 'if I had let ourselves be a drag on
him when he is so much needed, I could never have had the face to
write to our dear sufferer at home in his noble patience.  It is
better that we should be desolate than that he should be a wreck, or
than that mass of sickness should be left untended!  And the more
desolate, the more sure of One Protector.'

There was true heroism in the spirit in which this young girl braced
herself to uncomplaining acceptance of desertion in this unwholesome
swamp, with her two little ailing sisters, beside the sluggish
stream, amid the skeleton trees--heroism the greater because there
was no enthusiastic patriotism to uphold her--it was only the land of
her captivity, whence she looked towards home like Judah to
Jerusalem.




CHAPTER XXIII



Prisoner of hope thou art; look up and sing,
In hope of promised spring.
                       Christian Year


In the summer of 1862, Tom May was to go up for his examination at
the College of Physicians, but only a day or two before it he made
his appearance at home, in as much excitement as it was in him to
betray.  Hazlitt, the banker's clerk at Whitford, had written to him
tidings of the presentation of the missing cheque for 25, which
Bilson had paid to old Axworthy shortly before the murder, and which
Leonard had mentioned as in the pocket-book containing his receipt
for the sum that had been found upon him.  Tom had made a halt at
Whitford, and seen the cheque, which had been backed by the word
Axworthy, with an initial that, like all such signatures of the
nephew, might stand either for S. or F., and the stiff office hand of
both the elder and younger Axworthy was so much alike, that no one
could feel certain whose writing it was.  The long concealment, after
the prisoner's pointed reference to it, was, however, so remarkable,
that the home conclave regarded the cause as won; and the father and
son hastened triumphantly to the attorneys' office.

Messrs. Bramshaw and Anderson were greatly struck, and owned that
their own minds were satisfied as to the truth of their client's
assertion; but they demurred as to the possibility of further steps.
An action for forgery, Tom's first hope, he saw to be clearly
impossible; Samuel Axworthy appeared to have signed the cheque in his
own name, and he had every right to it as his uncle's heir; and
though the long withholding of it, as well as his own departure, were
both suspicious circumstances, they were not evidence.  Where was
there any certainty that the cheque had ever been in the pocket-book
or even if it had, how did it prove the existence of young Ward's
acknowledgment?  Might it not have been in some receptacle of papers
hitherto not opened?  There was no sufficient case to carry to the
police, after a conviction like Leonard's, to set them on tracing the
cheque either to an unknown robber, or to Sam Axworthy, its rightful
owner.

Mr. Bramshaw likewise dissuaded Dr. May from laying the case before
the Secretary of State, as importunity without due grounds would only
tell against him if any really important discovery should be made:
and the Doctor walked away, with blood boiling at people's coolness
to other folk's tribulations, and greatly annoyed with Tom for having
acceded to the representations of the men of law, and declining all
co-operation in drawing up a representation for the Home Office, on
the plea that he had no time to lose in preparing for his own
examination, and must return to town by the next train, which he did
without a syllable of real converse with any one at home.

The Doctor set to work with his home helpers, assisted by Dr.
Spencer; but the work of composition seemed to make the ground give
way under their feet, and a few adroit remarks from Dr. Spencer
finally showed him and Ethel that they had not yet attained the prop
for the lever that was to move the world.  He gave it up, but still
he did not quite forgive Tom for having been so easily convinced, and
ready to be dismissed to his own affairs.

However, Dr. May was gratified by the great credit with which his son
passed his examination, and took his degree; and Sir Matthew Fleet
himself wrote in high terms of his talent, diligence, and steadiness,
volunteering hopes of being able to put him forward in town in his
own line, for which Tom had always had a preference; and adding, that
it was in concurrence with his own recommendation that the young man
wished to pursue his studies at Paris--he had given him introductions
that would enable him to do so to the greatest advantage, and he
hoped his father would consent.  The letter was followed up by one
from Tom himself, as usual too reasonable and authoritative to be
gainsaid, with the same representation of advantages to be derived
from a course of the Parisian hospitals.

'Ah, well! he is after old Fleet's own heart,' said Dr. May, between
pride and mortification.  'I should not grudge poor Fleet some one to
take interest in his old age, and I did not look to see him so warm
about anything.  He has not forgotten Calton Hill!  But the boy must
have done very well!  I say, shall we see him Sir Thomas some of
these days, Ethel, and laugh at ourselves for having wanted, to make
him go round in a mill after our old fashion?'

'You were contented to run round in your mill,' said Ethel, fondly,
'and maybe he will too.'

'No, no, Ethel, I'll not have him persuaded.  Easy-going folk, too
lazy for ambition, have no right to prescribe for others.  Ambition
turned sour is a very dangerous dose!  Much better let it fly off!
I mean to look out of my mill yet, and see Sir Thomas win the stakes.
Only I wish he would come and see us; tell him he shall not hear a
word to bother him about the old practice.  People have lived and
died at Stoneborough without a May to help them, and so they will
again, I suppose.'

Ethel was very glad to see how her father had made up his mind to
what was perhaps the most real disappointment of his life, but she
was grieved that Tom did not respond to the invitation, and next
wrote from Paris.  It was one of his hurried notes, great contrasts
to such elaborate performances as his recent letter.  'Thanks, many
thanks to my father,' he said; 'I knew you would make him see reason,
and he always yields generously.  I was too much hurried to come
home; could not afford to miss the trail.  I had not time to say
before that the Bank that sent the cheque to Whitford had it from a
lodging-house in town.  Landlord had a writ served on S. A.; as he
was embarking at Folkestone, he took out the draft and paid.  He knew
its import, if Bramshaw did not.  I hope my father was not vexed at
my not staying.  There are things I cannot stand, namely, discussions
and Gertrude.'

Gertrude was one of the chief cares upon Ethel's mind.  She spent
many thoughts upon the child, and even talked her over with Flora.

'What is it, Flora? is it my bad management?  She is a good girl, and
a dear girl; but there is such a want of softness about her.'

'There is a want of softness about all the young ladies of the day,'
returned Flora.

'I have heard you say so, but--'

'We have made girls sensible and clear-headed, till they have grown
hard.  They have been taught to despise little fears and illusions,
and it is certainly not becoming.'

'We had not fears, we were taught to be sensible.'

'Yes, but it is in the influence of the time!  It all tends to make
girls independent.'

'That's very well for the fine folks you meet in your visits, but it
does not account for my Daisy--always at home, under papa's eye--
having turned nineteenth century--What is it, Flora?  She is
reverent in great things, but not respectful except to papa, and that
would not have been respect in one of us--only he likes her
sauciness.'

'That is it, partly.'

'No, I won't have that said,' exclaimed Ethel.  'Papa is the only
softening influence in the house--the only one that is tender.  You
see it is unlucky that Gertrude has so few that she really does love,
with anything either reverend or softening about them.  She is always
at war with Charles Cheviot, and he has not fun enough, is too
lumbering altogether, to understand her, or set her down in the right
way; and she domineers over Hector like the rest of us.  I did hope
the babies might have found out her heart, but, unluckily, she does
not take to them.  She is only bored by the fuss that Mary and
Blanche make about them.

'You know we are all jealous of both Charles Cheviots, elder and
younger.'

'I often question whether I should not have taken her down and made
her ashamed of all the quizzing and teasing at the time of Mary's
marriage.  But one cannot be always spoiling bright merry mischief,
and I am only elder sister after all.  It is a wonder she is as good
to me as she is.'

'She never remembered our mother, poor dear.'

'Ah! that is the real mischief,' said Ethel.  'Mamma would have given
the atmosphere of gentleness and discretion, and so would Margaret.
How often I have been made, by the merest pained look, to know when
what I said was saucy or in bad taste, and I--I can only look
forbidding, or else blurt out a reproof that _will_ not come softly.'

'The youngest _must_ be spoilt,' said Flora, 'that's an ordinance of
nature.  It ends when a boy goes to school, and when a girl--'

'When?'

'When she marries--or when she finds out what trouble is,' said
Flora.

'Is that all you can hold out to my poor Daisy?'

'Well, it is the way of the world.  There is just now a reaction from
sentiment, and it is the less feminine variety.  The softness will
come when there is a call for it.  Never mind when the foundation is
safe.'

'If I could only see that child heartily admiring and looking up!  I
don't mean love--there used to be a higher, nobler reverence!'

'Such as you and Norman used to bestow on Shakespeare and Scott, and
--the vision of Cocksmoor.'

'Not only _used_,' said Ethel.

'Yes, it is your soft side,' said Flora; 'it is what answers the
purpose of sentiment in people like you.  It is what I should have
thought living with you would have put into any girl; but Gertrude
has a satirical side, and she follows the age.'

'I wish you would tell her so--it is what she especially wants not to
do!  But the spirit of opposition is not the thing to cause
tenderness.'

'No, you must wait for something to bring it out.  She is very kind
to my poor little Margaret, and I won't ask how she talks _of_ her.'

'Tenderly; oh yes, that she always would do.'

'There, then, Ethel, if she can talk tenderly of Margaret, there
can't be much amiss at the root.'

'No; and you don't overwhelm the naughty girl with baby talk.'

'Like our happy, proud young mothers,' sighed Flora; and then letting
herself out--'but indeed, Ethel, Margaret is very much improved.  She
has really begun to wish to be good.  I think she is struggling with
herself.'

'Something to love tenderly, something to reverence highly.'  So
meditated Ethel, as she watched her sunny-haired, open-faced Daisy,
so unconquerably gay and joyous that she gave the impression of
sunshine without shade.  There are stages of youth that are in
themselves unpleasing, and yet that are nobody's fault, nay, which
may have within them seeds of strength.  Tom's satire had fostered
Daisy's too congenial spirit, and he reaped the consequence in the
want of repose and sympathy that were driving him from home, and
shutting him up within himself.  Would he ever forgive that flippant
saying, which Ethel had recollected with shame ever since--shame more
for herself than for the child, who probably had forgotten, long ago,
her 'shaft at random sent'?

Then Ethel would wonder whether, after all, her discontent with
Gertrude's speeches was only from feeling older and graver, and
perhaps from a certain resentment at finding how the course of time
was wearing down the sharp edge of compassion towards Leonard.

A little more about Leonard was gathered when the time came of
release for his friend the clerk Brown.  This young man had an uncle
at Paris, engaged in one of the many departments connected with steam
that carry Englishmen all over the world, and Leonard obtained
permission to write to Dr. Thomas May, begging him to call upon the
uncle, and try if he could be induced to employ the penitent and
reformed nephew under his own eye.  It had been wise in Leonard to
write direct, for if the request had been made through any one at
home, Tom would have considered it as impossible; but he could not
resist the entreaty, and his mission was successful.  The uncle was
ready to be merciful, and undertook all the necessary arrangements
for, and even the responsibility of, bringing the ticket-of-leave man
to Paris, where he found him a desk in his office.  One of Tom's few
detailed epistles was sent to Ethel after this arrival, when the
uncle had told him how the nephew had spoken of his fellow-prisoner.
It was to Leonard Ward that the young man had owed the inclination to
open his heart to religious instruction, hitherto merely endured as a
portion of the general infliction of the penalty, a supposed engine
for dealing with the superstitious, but entirely beneath his
attention.  The sight of the educated face had at first attracted
him, but when he observed the reverential manner in chapel, he
thought it mere acting the ''umble prisoner,' till he observed how
unobtrusive, unconscious, and retiring was every token of devotion,
and watched the eyes, brightened or softened in praise or in prayer,
till he owned the genuineness and guessed the depth of both, then
perceived in school how far removed his unknown comrade was from the
mere superstitious boor.  This was the beginning.  The rest had been
worked out by the instruction and discipline of the place, enforced
by the example, and latterly by the conversation, of his fellow-
prisoner, until he had come forth sincerely repenting, and with the
better hope for the future that his sins had not been against full
light.

He declared himself convinced that Ward far better merited to be at
large than he did, and told of the regard that uniform good conduct
was obtaining at last, though not till after considerable
persecution, almost amounting to personal danger from the worse sort
of convicts, who regarded him as a spy, because he would not connive
at the introduction of forbidden indulgences, and always stood by the
authorities.  Once his fearless interposition had saved the life of a
warder, and this had procured him trust, and promotion to a class
where his companions were better conducted, and more susceptible to
good influences, and among them Brown was sure that his ready
submission and constant resolution to do his work were producing an
effect.  As to his spirits, Brown had never known him break down but
once, and that was when he had come upon a curious fossil in the
stone.  Otherwise he was grave and contented, but never laughed or
joked as even some gentlemen prisoners of more rank and age had been
known to do.  The music in the chapel was his greatest pleasure, and
he had come to be regarded as an important element in the singing.

Very grateful was Dr. May to Tom for having learnt, and still more
for having transmitted, all these details, and Ethel was not the less
touched, because she knew they were to travel beyond Minster Street.
Those words of Mr. Wilmot's seemed to be working out their
accomplishment; and she thought so the more, when in early spring one
of Leonard's severe throat attacks led to his being sent after his
recovery to assist the schoolmaster, instead of returning to the
carpenter's shed; and he was found so valuable in the school that the
master begged to retain his services.

That spring was a grievous one in Indiana.  The war, which eighteen
months previously was to have come to an immediate end, was still
raging, and the successes that had once buoyed up the Northern States
with hope had long since been chequered by terrible reverses.  On,
on, still fought either side, as though nothing could close the
strife but exhaustion or extinction; and still ardent, still
constant, through bereavement and privation, were either party to
their blood-stained flag.  Mordaunt Muller had fallen in one of the
terrible battles on the Rappahannock; and Cora, while, sobbing in
Averil's arms, had still confessed herself thankful that it had been
a glorious death for his country's cause!  And even in her fresh
grief, she had not endeavoured to withhold her other brother, when,
at the urgent summons of Government, he too had gone forth to join
the army.

Cora was advised to return to her friends at New York, but she
declared her intention of remaining to keep house with Cousin
Deborah.  Unless Averil would come with her, nothing should induce
her to leave Massissauga, certainly not while Ella and Averil were
alternately laid low by the spring intermittent fever.  Perhaps the
fact was that, besides her strong affection for Averil, she felt that
in her ignorance she had assisted her father in unscrupulously
involving them in a hazardous and unsuccessful speculation, and that
she was the more bound, in justice as well as in love and pity, to do
her best for their assistance.  At any rate, Rufus had no sooner left
home, than she insisted on the three sisters coming to relieve her
loneliness--in other words, in removing them from the thin ill-built
frame house, gaping in every seam with the effects of weather, and
with damp oozing up between every board of the floor, the pestiferous
river-fog, the close air of the forest, and the view of the phantom
trees, now decaying and falling one against another.

Cousin Deborah, who had learnt to love and pity the forlorn English
girls, heartily concurred; and Averil consented, knowing that the dry
house and pure air were the best hope of restoring Ella's health.

Averil and Ella quickly improved, grew stronger in the intervals, and
suffered less during the attacks; but Minna, who in their own house
had been less ill, had waited on both, and supplied the endless
deficiencies of the kindly and faithful, but two-fisted Katty; Minna,
whose wise and simple little head had never failed in sensible
counsels, or tender comfort; Minna, whom the rudest and most self-
important far-wester never disobliged, Minna, the peace-maker, the
comfort and blessing--was laid low by fever, and fever that, as the
experienced eyes of Cousin Deborah at once perceived, 'meant
mischief.'  Then it was that the real kindliness of heart of the
rough people of the West showed itself.  The five wild young ladies,
whose successive domestic services had been such trouble, and whose
answer to a summons from the parlour had been, 'Did yer holler, Avy?
I thort I heerd a scritch,' each, from Cleopatra Betsy to Hetta Mary,
were constantly rushing in to inquire, or to present questionable
dainties and nostrums from their respective 'Mas'; the charwomen,
whom Minna had coaxed in her blandest manner to save trouble to
Averil and disgust to Henry, were officious in volunteers of nursing
and sitting up, the black cook at the hotel sent choice fabrics of
jelly and fragrant ice; and even Henry's rival, who had been so
strong against the insolence of a practitioner showing no
testimonials, no sooner came under the influence of the yearning,
entreating, but ever-patient eyes, than his attendance became
assiduous, his interest in the case ardent.

Henry himself was in the camp, before Vicksburg, with his hands too
full of piteous cases of wounds and fever to attempt the most hurried
visit.

'Sister, dear,' said the soft slow voice, one day when Averil had
been hoping her patient was asleep, 'are you writing to Henry?'

'Yes, my darling.  Do you want to say anything?'

'Oh yes! so much;' and the eyes grew bright, and the breath gasping;
'please beg Henry--tell Henry--that I must--I can't bear it any
longer if I don't--'

'You must what, dear child?  Henry would let you do anything he
could.'

'Oh, then, would he let me speak about dear Leonard?' and the child
grew deadly white when the words were spoken; but her eyes still
sought Averil's face, and grew terrified at the sight of the gush of
tears.  'O, Ave, Ave, tell me only--he is not dead!' and as Averil
could only make a sign, 'I do have such dreadful fancies about him,
and I think I could sleep if I only knew what was really true.'

'You shall, dear child, you shall, without waiting to hear from
Henry; I know he would let you.'

And only then did Averil know the full misery that Henry's decision
had inflicted on the gentle little heart, in childish ignorance,
imagining fetters and dungeons, even in her sober waking moods, and a
prey to untold horrors in every dream, exaggerated by feverishness
and ailment--horrors that, for aught she knew, might be veritable,
and made more awful by the treatment of his name as that of one dead.

To hear of him as enjoying the open air and light of day, going to
church, singing their own favourite hymn tunes, and often visited by
Dr. May, was to her almost as great a joy as if she had heard of him
at liberty.  And Averil had a more than usually cheerful letter to
read to her, one written in the infirmary during his recovery.  His
letters to her were always cheerful, but this one was particularly
so, having been written while exhilarated by the relaxations
permitted to convalescents, and by enjoying an unwonted amount of
conversation with the chaplain and the doctor.

'So glad, so glad,' Minna was heard murmuring to herself again and
again; her rest was calmer than it had been for weeks, and the doctor
found her so much better that he trusted that a favourable change had
begun.

But it was only a gleam of hope.  The weary fever held its prey, and
many as were the fluctuations, they always resulted in greater
weakness; and the wandering mind was not always able to keep fast
hold of the new comfort.  Sometimes she would piteously clasp her
sister's hand, and entreat, 'Tell me again;' and sometimes the
haunting delirious fancies of chains and bars would drop forth from
the tongue that had lost its self-control; yet even at the worst came
the dear old recurring note, 'God will not let them hurt him, for he
has not done it!'  Sometimes, more trying to Averil than all, she
would live over again the happy games with him, or sing their
favourite hymns and chants, or she would be heard pleading, 'O,
Henry, don't be cross to Leonard.'

Cora could not fail to remark the new name that mingled in the
unconscious talk; but she had learnt to respect Averil's reserve, and
she forbore from all questioning, trying even to warn Cousin Deborah,
who, with the experience of an elderly woman, remarked, 'That she had
too much to do to mind what a sick child rambled about.  When Cora
had lived to her age, she would know how unaccountably they talked.'

But Averil felt the more impelled to an outpouring by this delicate
forbearance, and the next time she and Cora were sent out together to
breathe the air, while Cousin Deborah watched the patient, she told
the history, and to a sympathizing listener, without a moment's doubt
of Leonard's innocence, nor that American law would have managed
matters better.

'And now, Cora, you know why I told you there were bitterer sorrows
than yours.'

'Ah!  Averil, I could have believed you once; but to know that he
never can come again!  Now you always have hope.'

'My hope has all but gone,' said Averil.  'There is only one thing
left to look to.  If I only can live till he is sent out to a colony,
then nothing shall keep me back from him!'

'And what would I give for even such a hope?'

'We have a better hope, both of us,' murmured Averil.

'It won't seem so long when it is over.'

Well was it for Averil that this fresh link of sympathy was riveted,
for day by day she saw the little patient wasting more hopelessly
away, and the fever only burning lower for want of strength to feed
on.  Utterly exhausted and half torpid, there was not life or power
enough left in the child for them to know whether she was aware of
her condition.  When they read Prayers, her lips always moved for the
Lord's Prayer and Doxology; and when the clergyman came out from
Winiamac, prayed by her and blessed her, she opened her eyes with a
look of comprehension; and if, according to the custom from the
beginning of her illness, the Psalms and Lessons were not read in her
room, she was uneasy, though she could hardly listen.  So came Easter
Eve; and towards evening she was a little revived, and asked Averil
what day it was, then answered, 'I thought it would have been nice to
have died yesterday,'--it was the first time she mentioned death.
Averil told her she was better, but half repented, as the child sank
into torpor again; and Averil, no longer the bewildered girl who had
been so easily led from the death scene, knew the fitful breath and
fluttering pulse, and felt the blank dread stealing over her heart.

Again, however, the child looked up, and murmured, 'You have not read
to-day.'  Cora, who had the Bible on her knee, gently obeyed, and
read on, where she was, the morning First Lesson, the same in the
American Church as in our own.  Averil, dull with watching and
suffering, sat on dreamily, with the scent of primroses wafted to
her, as it were, by the association of the words, though her power to
attend to them was gone.  Before the chapter was over, the doze had
overshadowed the little girl again; and yet, more than once, as the
night drew on, they heard her muttering what seemed like the echo of
one of its verses, 'Turn you, turn you--'

At last, after hours of watching, and more than one vain endeavour of
good Cousin Deborah to lead away the worn but absorbed nurses, the
dread messenger came.  Minna turned suddenly in her sister's arms,
with more strength than Averil had thought was left in her, and
eagerly stretched out her arms, while the words so long trembling on
her lips found utterance.  'Turn you to the stronghold, ye prisoners
of hope!  O, Leonard dear! it does not hurt!'  But that last word was
almost lost in the gasp--the last gasp.  What 'did not hurt' was
death without his sting.

'O, Cora!  Was he with her?  Is he gone too?' was Averil's cry at the
first moment, as she strained the form of her little comforter for
the last time in her arms.

'And if he is, they are in joy together,' said Cousin Deborah,
tenderly but firmly unloosing Averil's arms, though with the tears
running down her cheeks.  'Take her away, Cora, and both of you
sleep.  This dear lamb is in better keeping than yours.'

Heavy, grievous, was the loss, crushing the grief; but it was such as
to be at its softest and sweetest at Easter, amid the Resurrection
joys, and the budding flowers, though Ella's bitterest fit of weeping
was excited by there being no primroses--the primroses that Minna
loved so much; and her first pleasurable thought was to sit down and
write to her dear 'Mr. Tom' to send her some primrose seed, for
Minna's grave.

Minna's grave!  Alas! Massissauga had but an untidy desolate-looking
region, with a rude snake fence, all unconsecrated!  Cora wanted to
choose a shaded corner in her father's ground, where they might daily
tend the child's earthly resting-place; but Averil shrank from this
with horror; and finally, on one of the Easter holidays, the little
wasted form in its coffin was reverently driven by Philetus to
Winiamac, while the sisters and Cora slowly followed, thinking--the
one of the nameless blood-stained graves of a battle-field; the other
whether an equally nameless grave-yard, but one looked on with a
shudder unmixed with exultation, had opened for the other being she
loved best.  'The Resurrection and the Life.--Yes, had not He made
His grave with the wicked, and been numbered with the transgressors!'

Somehow, the present sorrow was more abundant in such comforts as
these than all the pangs which her heart, grown old in sorrow, had
yet endured.

Yet if her soul had bowed itself to meet sorrow more patiently and
peacefully, it was at the expense of the bodily frame.  Already
weakened by the intermittent fever, the long strain of nursing had
told on her; and that hysteric affection that had been so distressing
at the time of her brother's trial recurred, and grew on her with
every occasion for self-restraint.  The suspense in which she lived--
with one brother in the camp, in daily peril from battle and disease,
the other in his convict prison--wore her down, and made every
passing effect of climate or fatigue seize on her frame like a
serious disorder; and the more she resigned her spirit, the more her
body gave way.  Yet she was infinitely happier.  The repentance and
submission were bearing fruit, and the ceasing to struggle had
brought a strange calm and acceptance of all that might be sent; nay,
her own decay was perhaps the sweetest solace and healing of the
wearied spirit; and as to Ella, she would trust, and she did trust,
that in some way or other all would be well.

She felt as if even Leonard's death could be accepted thankfully as
the captive's release.  But that sorrow was spared her.

The account of Leonard came from Mr. Wilmot, who had carried him the
tidings.  The prisoner had calmly met him with the words, 'I know
what you are come to tell me;' and he heard all in perfect calmness
and resignation, saying little, but accepting all that the clergyman
said, exactly as could most be desired.

From the chaplain, likewise, Mr. Wilmot learnt that Leonard, though
still only in the second stage of his penalty, stood morally in a
very different position, and was relied on as a valuable assistant in
all that was good, more effective among his fellow-prisoners than was
possible to any one not in the same situation with themselves, and
fully accepting that position when in contact either with convicts or
officials.  'He has never referred to what brought him here,' said
the chaplain, 'nor would I press him to do so; but his whole tone is
of repentance, and acceptance of the penalty, without, like most of
them, regarding it as expiation.  It is this that renders his example
so valuable among the men.'

After such a report as this, it was disappointing, on Dr. May's next
visit to Portland, at two months' end, to find Leonard drooping and
downcast.  The Doctor was dismayed at his pale, dejected, stooping
appearance, and the silence and indifference with which he met their
ordinary topics of conversation, till the Doctor began anxiously--

'You are not well?'

'Quite well, thank you.'

'You are looking out of condition.  Do you sleep?'

'Some part of the night.'

'You want more exercise.  You should apply to go back to the
carpenter's shop--or shall I speak to the governor?'

'No, thank you. I believe they want me in school.'

'And you prefer school work?'

'I don't know, but it helps the master.'

'Do you think you make any progress with the men?  We heard you were
very effective with them.'

'I don't see that much can be done any way, certainly not by me.'

Then the Doctor tried to talk of Henry and the sisters; but soon saw
that Leonard had no power to dwell upon them.  The brief answers were
given with a stern compression and contraction of face; as if the
manhood that had grown on him in these three years was no longer
capable of the softening effusion of grief; and Dr. May, with all his
tenderness, felt that it must be respected, and turned the
conversation.

'I have been calling at the Castle,' he said, 'with Ernescliffe, and
the governor showed me a curious thing, a volume of Archbishop Usher,
which had been the Duke of Lauderdale's study after he was taken at
Worcester.  He has made a note in the fly-leaf, "I began this book at
Windsor, and finished it during my imprisonment here;" and below are
mottoes in Hebrew, Greek, and Latin.  I can't construe the Hebrew.
The Greek is oisteon kai elpisteon (one must bear and hope), the
Latin is durate.  Will you accept your predecessor's legacy?'

'I think I read about him in an account of the island,' said Leonard,
with a moment's awakened intelligence; 'was he not the L. of the
Cabal, the persecutor in "Old Mortality?"'

'I am afraid you are right.  Prosperity must have been worse for him
than adversity.'

'Endure' repeated Leonard, gravely.  'I will think of that, and what
he would mean by hope now.'

The Doctor came home much distressed; he had been unable to penetrate
the dreary, resolute self-command that covered so much anguish; he
had failed in probing or in healing, and feared that the apathy he
had witnessed was a sign that the sustaining spring of vigour was
failing in the monotonous life.  The strong endurance had been a
strain that the additional grief was rendering beyond his power; and
the crushed resignation, and air of extinguished hope, together with
the indications of failing health, filled the Doctor with misgivings.

'It will not last much longer,' he said.  'I do not mean that he is
ill; but to hold up in this way takes it out of a man, especially at
his age.  The first thing that lays hold of him, he will have no
strength nor will to resist, and then--Well, I did hope to live to
see God show the right.'




CHAPTER XXIV



We twa hae wandered o'er the braes,
  And pu'ed the gowans fine;
I've wandered many a weary foot
  Sin auld lang syne.


These years had passed quietly at Stoneborough, with little change
since Mary's marriage.  She was the happy excellent wife that she was
made to be; and perhaps it was better for Ethel that the first
severance had been so decisive that Mary's attentions to her old home
were received as favours, instead of as the mere scanty relics of her
former attachment.

Mr. Cheviot, as the family shook down together, became less afraid of
Ethel, and did not think it so needful to snub her either by his
dignity or jocularity; though she still knew that she was only on
terms of sufferance, and had been, more than once, made to repent of
unguarded observations.  He was admirable; and the school was so
rapidly improving that Norman had put his father into ecstasies by
proposing to send home little Dickie to begin his education there.
Moreover, the one element wanting, to accomplish the town
improvements, had been supplied by a head-master on the side of
progress, and Dr. Spencer's victory had been won at last.  There was
a chance that Stoneborough might yet be clean, thanks to his
reiteration of plans for purification, apropos to everything.  Baths
and wash-houses were adroitly carried as a monument to Prince Albert;
and on the Prince of Wales's marriage, his perseverance actually
induced the committee to finish up the drains with all the
contributions that were neither eaten up nor fired away!  Never had
he been more happy and triumphant; and Dr. May used to accuse him of
perambulating the lower streets snuffing the deodorized air.

One autumn evening, contrary to his wont, he allowed himself to be
drawn into the May drawing-room, and there fell into one of the
bright bantering talks in which the two old friends delighted,
quizzing each other, and bringing up stories of their life; while
Ethel and Gertrude listened to and laughed at the traditions of a
sunnier, gayer, and more reckless age than their own; and Ethel
thought how insufficient are those pictures of life that close with
the fever-dream of youthful passion, and leave untold those years of
the real burthen of manhood, and still more the tranquil brightness
when toil has been overlived, and the setting sun gilds the clouds
that are drifting away.

Ethel's first knowledge of outer life the next morning was the sound
of voices in her father's adjoining room, which made her call out,
'Are you sent for, papa?'

'Yes,' he answered, and in an agitated tone, 'Spencer; I'll send
word.'

Should she mention what she had two years ago heard from Tom?  There
was no time, for the next moment she heard him hurrying down-stairs,
she saw him speeding up the garden.  There was nothing for her to do
but to dress as fast as possible, and as she was finishing she heard
his tread slowly mounting, the very footfall warning her what to
expect.  She opened the door and met him.  'Thank God,' he said, as
he took her hand into his own, 'it has been very merciful.'

'Is it--?'

'Yes.  It must have been soon after he lay down at night.  As calm as
sleep.  The heart.  I am very thankful.  I had thought he would have
had much to suffer.'

And then it appeared that his own observations had made him sure of
what Ethel had learnt from Tom; but as long as it was unavowed by his
friend, he had thought himself bound to ignore it, and had so dreaded
the protracted suffering, that the actual stroke was accepted as a
loving dispensation.

Still, as the close of a life-long friendship, the end of a daily
refreshing and sustaining intimacy, the loss was very great, and
would be increasingly felt after the first stimulus was over.  It
would make Tom's defection a daily grievance, since much detail of
hospital care, and, above all, town work, his chief fatigue, would
now again fall upon him.  But this was not his present thought.  His
first care was, that his friend's remains should rest with those with
whom his lot in life had been cast, in the cloister of the old
Grammar-school; but here Mr. Cheviot looked concerned, and with
reluctance, but decision, declared it to be his duty not to consent,
cited the funeral of one of his scholars at the cemetery, and
referred to recent sanatory measures.

Dr. May quickly exclaimed that he had looked into the matter, and
that the cloister did not come under the Act.

'Not technically, sir,' said Mr. Cheviot; 'but I am equally convinced
of my duty, however much I may regret it.'  And then, with a few
words about Mary's presently coming up, he departed; while 'That is
too bad,' was the general indignant outburst, even from Richard; from
all but Dr. May himself.

'He is quite right,' he said.  'Dear Spencer would he the first to
say so.  Richard, your church is his best monument, and you'll not
shut him out of your churchyard nor me either.'

'Cheviot could not have meant--' began Richard.

'Yes, he did, I understood him, and I am glad you should have had it
out now,' said Dr. May, though not without a quivering lip.  'Your
mother has _one_ by her side, and we'll find each other out just as
well as if we were in the cloister.  I'll walk over to Cocksmoor with
you, Ritchie, and mark the place.'

Thus sweetly did he put aside what might have been so severe a shock;
and he took extra pains to show his son-in-law his complete
acquiescence both for the present and the future.  Charles Cheviot
expressed to Richard his great satisfaction in finding sentiment thus
surmounted by sense, not perceiving that it was faith and love
surmounting both.

Dr. Spencer's only surviving relation was a brother's son, who, on
his arrival, proved to be an underbred, shrewd-looking man, evidently
with strong prepossessions against the May family, whose hospitality
he did not accept, consorting chiefly with 'Bramshaw and Anderson.'
His disposition to reverse the arrangement for burying his uncle in
'an obscure village churchyard,' occasioned a reference to the will,
drawn up two years previously.  The executors were Thomas and
Etheldred May, and it was marked on the outside that they were to
have the sole direction of the funeral.  Ethel, greatly astonished,
but as much bewildered as touched, was infinitely relieved that this
same day had brought a hurried note from Paris, announcing Tom's
intention of coming to attend the funeral.  He would be able to talk
to the angry and suspicious nephew, without, like his father,
betraying either indignation or disgust.

Another person was extremely anxious for Tom's arrival, namely, Sir
Matthew Fleet, who, not a little to Dr. May's gratification, came to
show his respect to his old fellow-student; and arriving the evening
before Tom, was urgent to know the probabilities of his appearance.
An appointment in London was about to be vacant, so desirable in
itself, and so valuable an introduction, that there was sure to be a
great competition; but Sir Matthew was persuaded that with his own
support, and an early canvass, Tom might be certain of success.  Dr.
May could not help being grateful and gratified, declaring that the
boy deserved it, and that dear Spencer would have been very much
pleased; and then he told Ethel that it was wonderful to see the
blessing upon Maggie's children; and went back, as usual, to his dear
old Tate and Brady, with--


'His house the seat of wealth shall be,
 An inexhausted treasury;
 His justice, free from all decay,
 Shall blessings to his heirs convey.'


And Ethel, within herself, hoped it was no disrespect to smile at his
having so unconsciously turned away the blessing from the father's to
the mother's side.

It was his great pride and pleasure that so many of Maggie's children
were round him to do honour to her old friend's burial--three sons,
and four daughters, and three sons-in-law.  They all stood round the
grave, as near as might be to the stone that Gertrude, as a child,
had laid under his care, when his silver hair had mingled with her
golden locks; and with them was a concourse that evidently impressed
the nephew with a new idea of the estimation in which his uncle had
been held.

Tom had travelled all night, and had arrived only just in time.
Nobody was able to say a word to him before setting off; and almost
immediately after the return, Sir Matthew Fleet seized upon him to
walk up to the station with him, and, to the infinite disgust of the
nephew, the reading of the will was thus delayed until the executor
came back, extremely grave and thoughtful.

After all, Mr. Spencer had no available grievance.  His uncle's
property was very little altogether, amounting scarcely to a thousand
pounds, but the bulk was bequeathed to the nephew; to Aubrey May was
left his watch, and a piece of plate presented to him on his leaving
India; to Dr. May a few books; to Tom the chief of his library, his
papers, notes, and instruments, and the manuscript of a work upon
diseases connected with climate, on which he had been engaged for
many years, but had never succeeded in polishing to his own
fastidious satisfaction, or in coming to the end of new discoveries.
To Etheldred, his only legacy was his writing-desk, with all its
contents.  And Mr. Spencer looked so suspicious of those contents,
that Tom made her open it before him, and show that they were nothing
but letters.

It had been a morning of the mixture of feelings and restless bustle,
so apt to take place where the affection is not explained by
relationship; and when the strangers were gone, and the family were
once again alone, there was a drawing of freer breath, and the Doctor
threw himself back in his chair, and indulged in a long, heavy sigh,
with a weary sound in it.

'Can I go anywhere for you, father?' said Tom, turning to him with a
kind and respectful manner.

'Oh no--no, thank you,' he said, rousing himself, and laying his hand
on the bell, 'I must go over to Overfield; but I shall be glad of the
drive.  Well, Dr. Tom, what did you say to Fleet's proposal?'

'I said I would come up to town and settle about it when I had got
through this executor business.'

'You always were a lucky fellow, Tom,' said Dr. May, trying to be
interested and sympathetic.  'You would not wish for anything
better.'

'I don't know, I have not had time to think about it yet,' said Tom,
pulling off his spectacles and pushing back his hair, with an action
of sadness and fatigue.

'Ah! it was not the best of times to choose for the communication;
but it was kindly meant.  I never expected to see Fleet take so much
trouble for any one.  But you are done up, Tom, with your night
journey.'

'Not at all,' he answered, briskly, 'if I can do anything for you.
Could not I go down to the hospital?'

'Why, if I were not to be back till five,' began Dr. May,
considering, and calling him into the hall to receive directions,
from which he came back, saying, 'There! now then, Ethel, we had
better look over things, and get them in train.'

'You are so tired, Tom.'

'Not too much for that,' he said.  But it was a vain boast; he was
too much fatigued to turn his mind to business requiring thought,
though capable of slow, languid reading and sorting of papers.

Aubrey's legacy was discovered with much difficulty.  In fact, it had
never been heard of, nor seen the light, since its presentation, and
was at last found in a lumber closet, in a strong box, in Indian
packing.  It was a compromise between an epergne and a candelabrum,
growing out of the howdah of an unfortunate elephant, pinning one
tiger to the ground, and with another hanging on behind, in the midst
of a jungle of palm-trees and cobras; and beneath was an elaborate
inscription, so laudatory of Aubrey Spencer, M. D., that nobody
wondered he had never unpacked it, and that it was yellow with
tarnish--the only marvel was, that he had never disposed of it; but
that it was likely to wait for the days when Aubrey might be a
general and own a side-board.

The other bequests were far more appreciated.  Tom had known of the
book in hand, was certain of its value to the faculty, and was much
gratified by the charge of it, both as a matter of feeling and of
interest.  But while he looked over and sorted the mass of curious
notes, his attention was far more set on the desk, that reverently,
almost timidly, Ethel examined, well knowing why she had been
selected as the depositary of these relics.  There they were, some
embrowned by a burn in the corner, as though there had been an
attempt to destroy them, in which there had been no heart to
persevere.  It was but little, after all, two formal notes in which
Professor Norman Mackenzie asked the honour of Mr. Spencer's company
to dinner, but in handwriting that was none of the professor's--
writing better known to Ethel than to Tom--and a series of their
father's letters, from their first separation till the traveller's
own silence had caused their correspondence to drop.  Charming
letters they were, such as people wrote before the penny-post had
spoilt the epistolary art--long, minute, and overflowing with
brilliant happiness.  Several of them were urgent invitations to
Stoneborough, and one of these was finished in that other hand--the
delicate, well-rounded writing that would not be inherited--
entreating Dr. Spencer to give a few days to Stoneborough, 'it would
be such a pleasure to Richard to show him the children.'

Ethel did not feel sure whether to see these would give pain or
pleasure to her father.  He would certainly be grieved to see how
much suffering he must have inflicted in the innocence of his heart,
and in the glory of his happiness; and Tom, with a sort of shudder,
advised her to keep them to herself, he was sure they would give
nothing but pain.

She had no choice just then, for it was a time of unusual occupation,
and the difference made by their loss told immediately--the more,
perhaps, because it was the beginning of November, and there was much
municipal business to be attended to.

However it might be for the future, during the ensuing week Dr. May
never came in for a meal with the rest of the family; was too much
fagged for anything but sleep when he came home at night; and on the
Sunday morning, when they all had reckoned on going to Cocksmoor
together, he was obliged to give it up, and only come into the
Minster at the end of the prayers.  Every one knew that he was not a
good manager of his time, and this made things worse; and he declared
that he should make arrangements for being less taken up; but it was
sad to see him overburthened, and Tom, as only a casual visitor,
could do little to lessen his toil, though that little was done
readily and attentively.  There were no rubs between the two, and
scarcely any conversation.  Tom would not discuss his prospects; and
it was not clear whether he meant to avail himself of Sir Matthew's
patronage; he committed himself to nothing but his wish that it were
possible to stay in Paris; and he avoided even talking to his sister.

Not till a week after he had left home for London came a letter


'Dear Ethel,

'I have told Fleet that I am convinced of my only right course.  I
could never get the book finished properly if I got into his line,
and I must have peaceable evenings for it at home.  I suppose my
father would not like to let Dr. Spencer's house.  If I might have
it, and keep my own hours and habits, I think it would conduce to our
working better together.  I am afraid I kept you in needless distress
about him, but I wanted to judge for myself of the necessity, and to
think over the resignation of that quest.  I must commit it to Brown.
I hope it is not too great a risk; but it can't be helped.  It is a
matter of course that I should come home now the helper is gone; I
always knew it would come to that.  Manage it as quietly as you can.
I must go to Paris for a fortnight, to bring home my things, and by
that time my father had better get me appointed to the hospital.

'Yours ever,
'TH. MAY.'


Ethel was not so much surprised as her father, who thought she must
have been working upon Tom's feelings; but this she disavowed, except
that it had been impossible not to growl at patients sending at
unreasonable hours.  Then he hoped that Fleet had not been
disappointing the lad; but this notion was nullified by a
remonstrance from the knight, on the impolicy of burying such talents
for the sake of present help; and even proposing to send a promising
young man in Tom's stead.  'Not too good for poor Stoneborough,' said
Dr. May, smiling.  'No, no, I'm not so decrepit as that, whatever he
and Tom may have thought me; I fancy I could tire out both of them.
I can't have the poor boy giving up all his prospects for my sake,
Ethel.  I never looked for it, and I shall write and tell him so!
Mind, Ethel, I shall write, not you!  I know you would only stroke
him down, and bring him home to regret it.  No, no, I won't always be
treated like Karl, in "Debit and Credit", who the old giant thought
could neither write nor be written to, because his finger was off.'

And Dr. May's letter was the first which this son had ever had from
him.


'My Dear Tom,

'I feel your kind intentions to the heart; it is like all the rest of
your dear mother's children; but the young ought not to be sacrificed
to the old, and I won't have it done.  The whole tone of practice has
altered since my time, and I do not want to bind you down to the
routine.  I had left off thinking of it since I knew of your
distaste.  I have some years of work in me yet, that will see out
most of my old patients; and for the rest, Wright is a great advance
on poor Ward, and I will leave more to him as I grow older.  I mean
to see you a great man yet, and I think you will be the greater and
happier for the sacrifice you have been willing to make.  His
blessing on you.

'Your loving father,
'R. M.'


What was Tom's answer, but one of his cool 'good letters,' a
demonstration that he was actuated by the calmest motives of
convenience and self-interest, in preferring the certainties of
Stoneborough to the contingencies of London, and that he only wanted
time for study and the completion of Dr. Spencer's book, enforcing
his request for the house.

His resolution was, as usual, too evident to be combated, and it was
also plain that he chose to keep on the mask of prudent selfishness,
which he wore so naturally that it was hard to give him credit for
any other features; but this time Dr. May was not deceived.  He fully
estimated the sacrifice, and would have prevented it if he could; but
he never questioned the sincerity of the motive, as it was not upon
the surface; and the token of dutiful affection, as coming from the
least likely quarter of his family, touched and comforted him.  He
dwelt on it with increasing satisfaction, and answered all hurries
and worries with, 'I shall have time when Tome is come;' re-opened
old schemes that had died away when he feared to have no successor,
and now and then showed a certain comical dread of being drilled into
conformity with Tom's orderly habits.

There was less danger of their clashing, as the son had outgrown the
presumptions of early youth, and a change had passed over his nature
which Ethel had felt, rather than seen, during his fleeting visits at
home, more marked by negatives than positives, and untraced by
confidences.  The bitterness and self-assertion had ceased to tinge
his words, the uncomfortable doubt that they were underlaid by satire
had passed away, and methodical and self-possessed as he always was,
the atmosphere of 'number one' was no longer apparent round all his
doings.  He could be out of spirits and reserved without being either
ill-tempered or ironical; and Ethel, with this as the upshot of her
week's observations, was reassured as to the hopes of the father and
son working together without collisions.  As soon as the die was
cast, and there was no danger of undue persuasion in 'stroking him
down,' she indulged herself by a warmly-grateful letter, and after
she had sent it, was tormented by the fear that it would be a great
offence.  The answer was much longer than she had dared to expect,
and alarmed her lest it should be one of his careful ways of making
the worst of himself; but there was a large 'Private,' scored in
almost menacing letters on the top of the first sheet, and so much
blotted in the folding, that it was plain that he had taken alarm at
the unreserve of his own letter.


'My Dear Ethel,

'I have been to Portland.  Really my father ought to make a stir and
get Ward's health attended to; he looks very much altered, but will
not own to anything being amiss.  They say he has been depressed ever
since he heard of Minna's death.  I should say he ought to be doing
out-of-doors work--perhaps at Gibraltar, but then he would be out of
our reach.  I could not get much from him, but that patient,
contented look is almost more than one can bear.  It laid hold of me
when I saw him the first time, and has haunted me ever since.  Verily
I believe it is what is bringing me home!  You need not thank me, for
it is sober calculation that convinces me that no success on earth
would compensate for the perpetual sense that my father was wearing
himself out, and you pining over the sight.  Except just at first, I
always meant to come and see how the land lay before pledging myself
to anything; and nothing can be clearer than that, in the state of
things my father has allowed to spring up, he must have help.  I am
glad you have got me the old house, for I can be at peace there till
I have learnt to stand his unmethodical ways.  Don't let him expect
too much of me, as I see he is going to do.  It is not in me to be
like Norman or Harry, and he must not look for it, least of all now.
If you did not understand, and know when to hold your tongue, I do
not think I could come home at all; as it is, you are all the comfort
I look for.  I cross to Paris to-morrow.  That is a page I am very
sorry to close.  I had a confidence that I should have hunted down
that fellow, and the sight of Portland and the accounts from
Massissauga alike make one long to have one's hands on his throat;
but that hope is ended now, and to loiter about Paris in search of
him, when it it a plain duty to come away, would be one of the
presumptuous acts that come to no good.  Let them discuss what they
will, there's nothing so hard to believe in as Divine Justice!  And
yet that uncomplaining face accepts it!  You need say nothing about
this letter.  I will talk about Leonard with my father when I get
home.

'Ever yours,
'Thomas May.'




CHAPTER XXV



But soon as once the genial plain
Has drunk the life-blood of the slain,
Indelible the spots remain;
   And aye for vengeance call,
Till racking pangs of piercing pain
   Upon the guilty fall.
                   AEschylus.
                    (Translated by Professor Anstice.)


If Tom May's arrival at home was eagerly anticipated there, it was
with a heavy heart that he prepared for what he had never ceased to
look on as a treadmill life.  He had enjoyed Paris, both from the
society and the abstract study, since he still retained that taste
for theory rather than practice, which made him prefer diseases to
sick people, and all sick people to those of Stoneborough.  The
student life, in the freedom of a foreign capital, was, even while
devoid of license and irregularity, much pleasanter than what he
foresaw at home, even though he had obtained a separate
establishment.  His residence at Paris, with the vague hope it
afforded, cost him more in the resignation than his prospects in
London.  It was the week when he would have been canvassing for the
appointment, and he was glad to linger abroad out of reach of Sir
Matthew's remonstrances, and his father's compunction, while he was
engaged in arranging for a French translation of Dr. Spencer's book,
and likewise in watching an interesting case, esteemed a great
medical curiosity, at the Hotel Dieu.

He was waiting in the lecture-room, when one of the house surgeons
came in, saying, 'Ah! I am glad to see you here.  A compatriot of
yours has been brought in, mortally injured in a gambling fray.  You
may perhaps assist in getting him identified.'

Tom followed him to the accident ward, and beheld a senseless figure,
with bloated and discoloured features, distorted by the effects of
the injury, a blow upon the temple, which had caused a fall backwards
on the sharp edge of a stove, occasioning fatal injury to the spine.
Albeit well accustomed to gaze critically upon the tokens of mortal
agony, Tom felt an unusual shudder of horror and repugnance as he
glanced on the countenance, so disfigured and contorted that there
was no chance of recognition, and turned his attention to the
clothes, which lay in a heap on the floor.  The contents of the
pockets had been taken out, and consisted only of some pawnbroker's
duplicates, a cigar-case, and a memorandum-book, which last he took
in his hand, and began to unfasten, without looking at it, while he
took part in the conversation of the surgeons on the technical nature
of the injuries.  Thus he stood for some seconds, before, on the
house surgeon asking if he had found any address, he cast his eyes on
the pages which lay open in his hand.

'Ha!  What have you found?--He does not hear!  Is it the portrait of
the beloved object?  Is it a brother--an enemy--or a debt?  But he is
truly transfixed!  It is an effect of the Gorgon's head!'


'July 15th, 1860.  Received 120.
                              'L. A. WARD.'


There stood Tom May, like one petrified, deaf to the words around,
his dazzled eyes fixed on the letters, his faculties concentrated in
the endeavour to ascertain whether they were sight or imagination.
Yes, there they were, the very words in the well-known writing, the
school-boy's forming into the clerk's, there was the blot in the top
of the L!  Tom's heart gave one wild bound, then all sensation,
except the sight of the writing, ceased, the exclamations of those
around him came surging gradually on his ear, as if from a distance,
and he did not yet hear them distinctly when he replied alertly,
almost lightly, 'Here is a name that surprises me.  Let me look at
the patient again.'

'No dear friend?' asked his chief intimate, in a tone ready to become
gaiety or sympathy.

'No, indeed,' said Tom, shuddering as he stood over the insensible
wretch, and perceived what it had been which had thrilled him with
such unwonted horror, for, fixed by the paralyzing convulsion of the
fatal blow, he saw the scowl and grin of deadly malevolence that had
been the terror of his childhood, and that had fascinated his eyes at
the moment of Leonard's sentence.  Changed by debauchery, defaced by
violence, contorted by the injured brain, the features would scarcely
have been recalled to him but for the frightful expression stamped on
his memory by the miseries of his timid boyhood.

'Whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed.'  The
awful thought, answering his own struggle for faith in Divine
Justice, crossed him, as he heard the injury on the head defined, in
almost the same scientific terms that had so often rung on his ears
as the causes of Francis Axworthy's death; but this was no society
where he could give vent to his feelings, and mastering himself with
difficulty he answered,  'I know Him.  He is from my own town.'

'Has he friends or relations?'

'Relations, yes,' said Tom, hardly able to restrain a trembling of
the lip, half horror, half irony.  'None here, none near.  They shall
know.'

'And means?'

'Once he had.  Probably none now.'

To Tom's great relief, a new case drew off general attention.  There
only remained the surgeon who had called him at first, and with whom
he was particularly intimate.

'Gaspard,' he said, 'shall you have charge of this case?'

'Brief charge it will be, apparently!  I will volunteer to watch it,
if it is your desire!  Is it friendship, or enmity, or simple
humanity?'

'All!' said Tom, hastily.  'It is the clearing up of a horrible
mystery--freedom for an innocent prisoner--I must tell you the rest
at leisure.  There is much to be done now in case of his reviving.'

This was remotely possible, but very doubtful; and Tom impressed on
both Gaspard and the nursing sister the most stringent entreaties to
summon him on the first symptom.  He then gave the name of the
unhappy man, and, though unwilling to separate himself from that
invaluable pocket-book, perceived the necessity of leaving it as a
deposit with the authorities of the hospital, after he had fully
examined it, recognizing Leonard's description in each particular,
the cipher F. A. on the tarnished silver clasp, the shagreen cover,
and the receipt on a page a little past the middle.  On the other
half of the leaf was the entry of some sums due to the house; and it
contained other papers which the guilty wretch had been evidently
eager to secure, yet afraid to employ, and that, no doubt, were the
cause that, like so many other murderers on record, he had preserved
that which was the most fatal proof against himself.  Or could it be
with some notion of future relenting, that he had refrained from its
destruction?

With brain still seeming to reel at the discovery, and limbs actually
trembling with the shock, Tom managed to preserve sufficient coolness
and discretion to bring back to mind the measures he had so often
planned for any such contingency.  Calling a cabriolet, he repaired
to the police-station nearest to the scene of the contest, and there
learnt that Axworthy had long been watched as a dangerous subject,
full of turbulence, and with no visible means of maintenance.  The
officials had taken charge of the few personal effects in his
miserable lodgings, and were endeavouring to secure the person who
had struck the fatal blow.

His next measure was to go to the British Embassy, where, through his
sister Flora's introductions, and his own Eton connections, he was
already well known; and telling his story there, without any attempt
to conceal his breathless agitation, he had no difficulty in bringing
with him a companion who would authenticate the discovery of the
receipt, and certify to any confession that might be obtained.

A confession!  That was the one matter of the most intense interest.
Tom considered whether to secure the presence of a clergyman, but
suspected that this would put Axworthy on his guard rather than
soften him, and therefore only wrote to the chaplain, begging him to
hold himself in readiness for a summons to the Hotel Dieu, whither he
drove rapidly back with his diplomatic friend, whom he wrought up
well-nigh to his own pitch of expectation.  He had already decided on
his own first address--pitying, but manifesting that nothing, not
even vengeance, could be gained by concealment; and then, according
to the effect, would he try either softening or threatening to extort
the truth.

Gaspard was eagerly awaiting them.  'I had already sent for you,' he
said.  'The agony is commencing; he has spoken, but he has not his
full consciousness.'

Tom hurried on, drawing after him the young diplomate, who would have
hung back, questioning if there were any use in his witnessing the
dying struggles of a delirious man.

'Come, come,' peremptorily repeated Tom, 'there must be some last
words.  Every moment is of importance.'

Yet his trust was shaken by the perception of the progress that death
had made in the miserable frame during his absence.  The fixed
expression of malignity had been forced to yield to exhaustion and
anguish, the lips moved, but the murmurs between the moans were
scarcely articulate.

'He is almost past it,' said Tom, 'but there is the one chance that
he may be roused by my voice.'

And having placed his friend conveniently, both for listening and
making notes, he came close to the bed, and spoke in a tone of
compassion. 'Axworthy, I say, Axworthy, is there anything I can do
for you?'

There was a motion of the lid of the fast-glazing eye; but the
terrible face of hatred came back, with the audible words, 'I tell
you, you old fool, none of the Mays are to come prying about my
place.'

Appalled by the deadly malice of the imprecation and the look that
accompanied this partial recognition of his voice, Tom was nerving
himself to speak again, when the dying man, as if roused by the echo
of his own thought, burst out, 'Who?  What is it?  I say Dr. May
shall not be called in!  He never attended the old man!  Let him mind
his own business!  I was all night at the Three Goblets.  Yes, I was!
The new darling will catch it--going off with the money upon him--'
and the laugh made their blood run cold.  'I've got the receipt;' and
he made an attempt at thrusting his hand under the pillow, but
failing, swore, shouted, howled with his last strength, that he had
been robbed--the pocket-book--it would hang him! and with one of the
most fearful shrieks of despair that had perhaps ever rung through
that asylum of pain, woe, and death, the wretched spirit departed.

Tom May turned aside, made a few steps, and, to the infinite surprise
of every one, fell helplessly down in a swoon.  A nature of deep and
real sensibility, though repressed by external reserve and prudence,
could not with entire impunity undergo such a scene.  The sudden
discovery, the vehement excitement forced down, the intense strain of
expectation, and finally, the closing horror of such a death,
betraying the crime without repenting of it, passing to the other
world with imprecations on the lips, and hatred in the glare of the
eye, all the frightfulness enhanced by the familiarity of the
allusions, and the ghastly association of the tones that had tempted
and tyrannized over his childhood, altogether crushed and annihilated
his faculties, mental and bodily.

Oh, when our very hearts burn for justice, how little do we know how
intolerable would be the sight of it!  Tom's caution and readiness
returned as soon as--after a somewhat long interval--he began to
distinguish the voices round him, and perceive the amazement he had
created.  Before he was able to sit up on the couch, where he had
been laid out of sight of the scene which had affected him so
strongly, he was urging his friend to set down all that had been
spoken, and on Gaspard's writing a separate deposition.  The pocket-
book, and other effects, were readily ceded to the British authority,
and were carried away with them.

How Tom got through the remaining hours of the day and the night he
never recollected, though he knew it must have been in the bustle of
preparation, and that he had imparted the tidings to Leonard's friend
Brown, for when he and his friend had attended that which answered to
an inquest on the body, and had obtained a report of the proceedings,
he was ready to start by the night train, bearing with him the
attestations of the death-bed scene at the Hotel Dieu, and the long-
lost memorandum-book, and was assured that the next mail would carry
an official letter to the Home Office, detailing the circumstances of
Samuel Axworthy's decease.  Brown came to bid him farewell, full of
gladness and warm congratulation, which he longed to send to his
friend, but which Tom only received with hasty, half-comprehending
assents.

Late in the afternoon he reached Stoneborough, found no one come in,
and sat down in the fire-light, where, for all his impatience,
fatigue had made him drop asleep, when he was roused by Gertrude's
voice, exclaiming, 'Here really is Tom come, as you said he would,
without writing.  Here are all his goods in the hall.'

'Is it you, Tom!' cried Ethel.  'Notice or no notice, we are glad of
you.  But what is the matter?'

'Where's my father?'

'Coming.  Charles Cheviot took him down to look at one of the boys.
Is there anything the matter?' she added, after a pause.

'No, nothing.'

'You look very odd,' added Gertrude.

He gave a nervous laugh.  'You would look odd, if you had travelled
all night.'

They commented, and began to tell home news; but Ethel noted that he
neither spoke nor heard, only listened for his father.  Gertrude grew
tired of inattentive answers, and said she should go and dress.
Ethel was turning to follow, when he caught hold of her cloak, and
drew her close to him.  'Ethel,' he said, in a husky, stifled voice,
'do you know this?'

On her knees, by the red fire-light, she saw the 'L. A. Ward,' and
looked up.  'Is it?' she said.  He bowed his head.

And then Ethel put her arm round his neck, as he knelt down by her;
and he found that her tears, her rare tears, were streaming down,
silent but irrepressible.  She had not spoken, had asked no question,
made no remark, when Dr. Mays entrance was heard, and she loosed her
hold on her brother, out without rising from the floor, looked up
from under the shade of her hat, and said, 'O, papa! it is found, and
he has done it!  Look there!'

Her choked voice, and tokens of emotion, startled the Doctor; but
Tom, in a matter-of-fact tone, took up the word: 'How are you,
father?--Yes.  I have only met with this little memorandum.'

Dr. May recognized it with a burst of incoherent inquiry and
exclamation, wringing Tom's hand, and giving no time for an answer;
and, indeed, his son attempted none--till, calming himself, the
Doctor subsided into his arm-chair, and with a deep sigh, exclaimed,
'Now then, Tom, let us hear.  Where does this come from?'

'From the casualty ward at the Hotel Dieu.'

'And from--'

'He is dead,' said Tom, answering the unspoken question.  'You will
find it all here.  Ethel, do I sleep here to-night?  My old room?'
As he spoke, he bent to light a spill at the fire, and then the two
candles on the side-table; but his hand shook nervously, and though
he turned away his face, his father and sister saw the paleness of
his cheek, and knew that he must have received a great shock.
Neither spoke, while he put one candle conveniently for his father,
took up the other, and went away with it.  With one inquisitive
glance at each other, they turned to the papers, and with eager eyes
devoured the written narratives of Tom himself and of the attache,
then, with no less avidity, the French reports accompanying them.
Hardly a word was spoken while Ethel leant against her father's knee,
and he almost singed his hair in the candle, as they helped one
another out in the difficulties of the crooked foreign writing.

'Will it be enough?' asked Ethel, at last, holding her breath for the
answer.

'If there is justice in England!' said Dr. May.  'Heaven forgive me,
Ethel, this business has tried my trust more than anything that ever
befell me; but it will all be right now, and righter than right, if
that boy comes out what I think him.'

'And oh, how soon?'

'Not a moment longer than can be helped.  I'd go up by the mail train
this very night if it would do any good.'

Tom, who reappeared as soon as he had spared himself the necessity of
the narration, was willing and eager to set out; but Dr. May, who by
this time had gathered some idea of what he had gone through, and saw
that he was restless, nervous, and unhinged, began to reconsider the
expedience of another night journey, and was, for once in his life,
the person cool enough to see that it would be wisest to call
Bramshaw into their counsels, and only that night to send up a note
mentioning that they would do themselves the honour of calling at the
Home Office the next day, on matters connected with the intelligence
received that morning from the British Embassy at Paris.

Tom was disappointed; he was in no mood for sitting still, and far
less for talking.  As a matter of business, he would elucidate any
question, but conversation on what he had witnessed was impossible to
him; and when Gertrude, with a girl's lightness, lamented over being
balked of a confession and explanation, he gravely answered, that she
did not know what she was talking of; and his father led away from
the subject.  Indeed, Dr. May was full of kindness and consideration,
being evidently not only grateful for the discovery, but touched by
his entire absence of exulting triumph, and his strong sense of awe
in the retribution.

That changed and awe-struck manner impressed both the sisters, so
that all the evening Ethel felt subdued as by a strange shock, and
even through the night and morning could hardly realize that it was
intense relief--joy, not sorrow--that made her feel so unlike
herself, and that the burthen was taken away from her heart.  Even
then, there was a trembling of anxiety.  The prisoner might be set
free; but who could give back to him the sister who had pined away in
exile, or the three years of his youthful brightness?  There might be
better things in store; but she knew she must not look again for the
boy of ingenuous countenance, whose chivalrous devotion to herself
had had such a charm, even while she tried to prize it at its
lightest worth.  It was foolish to recollect it with a pang, but
there was no helping it.  In the great tragedy, she had forgotten
that the pretty comedy was over, but she regretted it, rather as she
did the pleasant baby-days of Aubrey and Gertrude.

Indeed, during the day of suspense, while the two physicians were
gone to London, taking with them the papers, and a minute detail of
the evidence at the trial, Gertrude's high spirits, triumph over
Charles Cheviot, and desire to trumpet forth the good news, were
oppressive.  How many times that day was Mab stroked, and assured
that her master would come back!  And how often did the two sisters
endeavour to persuade themselves that she was not grown broader in
the back!  Mary was, of course, told early in the day, but Gertrude
got less sympathy from her than answered to that damsel's
extortionate expectations, for, according to her wicked account,
Mary's little Charlie had sneezed three times, and his mamma must
regret what sent all the medical science of Stoneborough away by the
early train.

However, Tom came home at night.  The interview had been
satisfactory.  The letters received in the morning had prepared the
way, and revived the recollection of the unsatisfactory case of
Leonard Axworthy Ward, and of the representations of the then Mayor
of Market Stoneborough.  After all the new lights upon the matter had
been looked into, the father and son had been assured that, as soon
as possible, a free pardon should be issued, so drawn up as to imply
a declaration of innocence--the nearest possible approach to a
reversal of the sentence; and they further were told of a mention of
his exemplary conduct in a late report from Portland, containing a
request that he might be promoted to a post of greater influence and
trust before the ordinary time of probation had passed.  Dr. May was
eager to be at Portland at the same time as the pardon, so to give
Leonard the first intelligence, and to bring him home; and he had
warmly closed with Tom's offer to look after the work, while he
himself waited till the necessary forms had been complied with.  He
had absolutely begged Tom's pardon for going in his stead.  'It is
your right,' he said; 'but, somehow, I think, as I have been more
with him, I might do better.'  To which Tom had assented with all his
heart, and had added that he would not go if he were paid for it.  He
had further taken care that the Doctor should take with him a suit of
clothes for Leonard to come home in, and had himself made the
selection; then came back with the tidings that filled the house with
the certainty of joy, and the uncertainty of expectation.

Nobody was, however, in such a fever as Tom himself.  He was
marvellously restless all the morning.  Gertrude asserted it was
because he was miserable at not venturing to set his father's study
to rights; and to be sure he was seen looking round at the litter
with a face of great disgust, and declaring that he was ashamed to
see a patient in a room in such a mess.  But this did not fully
account for his being in and out, backwards and forwards, all the
morning, looking wistfully at Ethel, and then asking some trivial
question about messages left for his father, or matters respecting
his own new abode, where he kept on Dr. Spencer's old housekeeper,
and was about to turn in paperers and painters.  He had actually
brought a drawing-room paper from Paris, a most delicate and graceful
affair, much too lady-like for the old house, as Daisy told him, when
she pursued him and her sister down to a consultation.

Late in the afternoon, as the sisters were coming up the High Street,
they met him setting out in Hector's dog-cart.  'Oh, I say, Ethel,'
he said, drawing up, 'do you like a drive out to Chilford?  Here's a
note come to ask my father to see the old lady there, and I want some
one to give me courage to be looked at, like the curate in the pulpit
instead of the crack preacher.'

It was an offer not to be despised, though Ethel knew what a waiting
there would be, and what a dark drive home.  Up she jumped, and Tom
showed his usual thoughtfulness by ordering Gertrude to run home and
fetch her muff and an additional cloak, tucking her up himself with
the carriage rug.  That affection of Tom's had been slow in coming,
but always gave her a sense of gratitude and enjoyment.

They drove all the seven miles to Chilford without twenty words
passing between them; and when there, she sat in the road, and
watched one constellation after another fill up its complement of
stars as well as the moon permitted, wondering whether Tom's near-
sighted driving would be safe in the dark; but her heart was so
light, so glad, that she could not be afraid, she did not care how
long she waited, it was only sitting still to recollect that
deliverance had come to the captive--Leonard was free--'free as heart
can think or eye can see,' as would keep ringing in her ears like a
joy-bell; and some better things, too.  'Until the time came that his
cause was known, the Word of the Lord tried him.'

Whether she were really too happy to note time, or that gossipry was
deducted from the visit, Tom certainly returned sooner than her
experience had led her to expect, made an exclamation of dismay at
finding the machine was innocent of lamps, and remounted to his seat,
prepared to be extremely careful.

'I could not get them to take me for my father in a new wig,' he
said; 'but it was a very easy-going rheumatic case, and I think I
satisfied her.'

Then on he drove for a mile, till he was out of the bad cross-country
road, and at last he said, 'Ethel, I have made up my mind.  There's
no press of work just now, and I find it is advisable I should go to
America before I get into harness here.'

'To America!'

'Yes, about this book of dear old Spencer's.  It is a thing that must
be complete, and I find he was in correspondence with some men of
science there.  I could satisfy my mind on a few points, which would
make it infinitely more valuable, you see--and get it published there
too.  I know my father would wish every justice to be done to it.'

'I know he would; and,' continued Ethel, as innocently as she could,
'shall you see the Wards?'

'Why,' said Tom, in his deliberate voice, 'that is just one thing; I
want particularly to see Henry.  I had a talk with Wright this
morning, and he tells me that young Baines, at Whitford, is going to
the dogs, and the practice coming in to him.  He thinks of having a
partner, and I put out a feeler in case Henry Ward should choose to
come back, and found it might do very well.  But the proposal must
come from him, and there's no time to be lost, so I thought of
setting out as soon as I hear my father is on his way back.'

'Not waiting to see Leonard?'

'I did see him not a month ago.  Besides--' and his voice came to a
sudden end.

'Yes, the first news,' said Ethel.  'Indeed it is due to you, Tom.'

Ten minutes more of silence.

'Ethel, did she ever tell you?'

'Never,' said Ethel, her heart beating.

'Then how did you know all about it?'

'I didn't know.  I only saw--'

'Saw what?'

'That you were very much distressed.'

'And very kind and rational you were about it,' said Tom, warmly; 'I
never thought any woman could have guessed so much, without making
mischief.  But you must not put any misconstruction on my present
intention.  All I mean to do as yet is to induce Henry to remove them
out of that dismal swamp, and bring them home to comfort and
civilization.  Then it may be time to--'

He became silent; and Ethel longed ardently to ask further, but still
she durst not, and he presently began again.

'Ethel, was I very intolerable that winter of the volunteers, when
Harry was at home?'

'You are very much improved since,' she answered.

'That's just like Flora.  Answer like yourself.'

'Well, you were!  You were terribly rampant in Eton refinement, and
very anxious to hinder all the others from making fools of
themselves.'

'I remember!  I thought you had all got into intimacies that were for
nobody's good, and I still think it was foolish.  I know it has done
for me!  Well,' hastily catching up this last admission, as if it had
dropped out at unawares, 'you think I made myself disagreeable?'

'On principle.'

'Ah! then you would not wonder at what she said--that she had never
seen anything in me but contemptuous irony.'

'I think, sometimes feeling that you were satirical, she took all
your courtesy for irony--whatever you meant.  I have heard other
people say the same.  But when--was this on the day--the day you went
to remonstrate?'

'Yes.  I declare to you, Ethel, that I had no conception of what I
was going to do!  I never dreamt that I was in for it.  I knew she
was--was attractive--and that made me hate to see Harry with her, and
I could not bear her being carried off to this horrible place--but as
to myself, I never thought of it till I saw her--white and broken--'
and then came that old action Ethel knew so well in her father, of
clearing the dew from the glasses, and his voice was half sob, 'and
with no creature but that selfish brother to take care of her.  I
couldn't help it, Ethel--no one could--and this--this was her answer.
I don't wonder.  I had been a supercilious prig, and I ought to have
known better than to think I could comfort her.'

'I think the remembrance must have comforted her since.'

'What--what, has she said anything?'

'Oh no, she could not, you know.  But I am sure, if it did anger her
at the moment, there must have been comfort in recollecting that even
such a terrible trouble had not alienated you.  And now--'

'Now that's just what I don't want!  I don't want to stalk in and say
here's the hero of romance that has saved your brother!  I want to
get her home, and show her that I can be civil without being
satirical, and then, perhaps, she would forgive me.'

'Forgive you--'

'I mean forgiveness won, not purchased.  And after all, you know it
was mere accident--Providence if you please--that brought me to that
poor wretch; all my plans of tracking him had come to an end; any one
else could have done what I did.'

'She will not feel that,' said Ethel; 'but indeed, Tom, I see what
you mean, and like it.  It is yourself, and not the conferrer of the
benefit, that you want her to care for.'

'Exactly,' said Tom.  'And, Ethel, I must have seen her and judged of
my chance before I can be good for anything.  I tried to forget it--
own it as a lucky escape--a mere passing matter, like Harry's
affairs--but I could not do it.  Perhaps I could if things had gone
well; but that dear face of misery, that I only stung by my attempts
to comfort, would stick fast with me, and to go and see Leonard only
brought it more home.  It is a horrid bad speculation, and Flora and
Cheviot and Blanche will scout it; but, Ethel, you'll help me
through, and my father will not mind, I know.'

'Papa will feel as I do, Tom--that it has been your great blessing,
turn out as it may.'

'H'm! has it?  A blessing on the wrong side of one's mouth--to go
about with a barb one knew one was a fool for, and yet couldn't
forget!  Well, I know what you mean, and I believe it was.  I would
not have had it annihilated, when the first mood was over.'

'It was that which made it so hard to you to come home, was it not?'

'Yes; but it was odd enough, however hard it was to think of coming,
you always sent me away more at peace, Ethel.  I can't think how you
did it, knowing nothing.'

'I think you came at the right time.'

'You see, I did think that while Spencer lived, I might follow up the
track, and see a little of the world--try if that would put out that
face and voice.  But it won't do.  If this hadn't happened, I would
have tied myself down, and done my best to get comfort out of you,
and the hospital, and these 'Diseases of Climate'--I suppose one
might in time, if things went well with her; but, as it is, I can't
rest till I have seen if they can be got home again.  So, Ethel,
don't mind if I go before my father comes home.  I can't stand
explanations with him, and I had rather you did not proclaim this.
You see the book, and getting Henry home, are really the reasons, and
I shan't molest her again--no--not till she has learnt to know what
is irony.'

'I think if you did talk it over with papa, you would feel the
comfort, and know him better.'

'Well, well, I dare say, but I can't do it, Ethel.  Either he shuts
me up at first, with some joke, or--' and Tom stopped; but Ethel knew
what he meant.  There was on her father's side an involuntary absence
of perfect trust in this son, and on Tom's there was a character so
sensitive that her father's playfulness grated, and so reserved that
his demonstrative feelings were a still greater trial to one who
could not endure outward emotion.  'Besides,' added Tom, 'there is
really nothing--nothing to tell.  I'm not going to commit myself.  I
don't know whether I ever shall.  I was mad that day, and I want to
satisfy my mind whether I think the same now I am sane, and if I do,
I shall have enough to do to make her forget the winter when I made
myself such an ass.  When I have done that, it may be time to speak
to my father.  I really am going out about the book.  When did you
hear last?'

'That is what makes me anxious.  I have not heard for two months, and
that is longer than she ever was before without writing, except when
Minna was ill.'

'We shall know if Leonard has heard.'

'No, she always writes under cover to us.'

The course that the conversation then took did not look much like
Tom's doubt whether his own views would be the same.  All the long-
repressed discussion of Averil's merits, her beautiful eyes, her
sweet voice, her refinement, her real worth, the wonder that she and
Leonard should be so superior to the rest of the family, were freely
indulged at last, and Ethel could give far heartier sympathy than if
this had come to her three years ago.  Averil had been for two years
her correspondent, and the patient sweetness and cheerfulness of
those letters had given a far higher estimate of her nature than the
passing intercourse of the town life had left.  The terrible
discipline of these years of exile and sorrow had, Ethel could well
believe, worked out something very different from the well-
intentioned wilful girl whose spirit of partisanship had been so
fatal an element of discord.  Distance had, in truth, made them
acquainted, and won their love to one another.

Tom's last words, as he drew up under the lime-trees before the door,
were, 'Mind, I am only going about the 'Diseases of Climate'.'




CHAPTER XXVI



  And Bishop Gawain as he rose,
Said, 'Wilton, grieve not for thy woes,
       Disgrace and trouble;
For He who honour best bestows,
       Can give thee double.'--Marmion


Dr. May had written to Portland, entreating that no communication
might be made to Leonard Ward before his arrival; and the good
physician's affection for the prisoner had been so much observed,
that no one would have felt it fair to anticipate him.  Indeed, he
presented himself at the prison gates only two hours after the
arrival of the documents, when no one but the governor was aware of
their contents.

Leonard was as usual at his business in the schoolmaster's
department; and thither a summons was sent for him, while Dr. May and
the governor alone awaited his arrival.  Tom's visit was still very
recent; and Leonard entered with anxious eyes, brow drawn together,
and compressed lips, as though braced to meet another blow; and the
unusual room, the presence of the governor instead of the warder, and
Dr. May's irrepressible emotion, so confirmed the impression, that
his face at once assumed a resolute look of painful expectation.

'My boy,' said Dr. May, clasping both his hands in his own, 'you have
borne much of ill.  Can you bear to hear good news?'

'Am I to be sent out to Australia already?' said Leonard--for a
shortening of the eight years before his ticket-of-leave was the sole
hope that had presented itself.

'Sent out, yes; out to go wherever you please, Leonard.  The right is
come round.  The truth is out.  You are a free man!  Do you know what
that is?  It is a pardon.  Your pardon.  All that can be done to
right you, my boy--but it is as good as a reversal of the sentence.'

The Doctor had spoken this with pauses; going on, as Leonard, instead
of answering, stood like one in a dream, and at last said with
difficulty, 'Who did it then?'

'It was as you always believed.'

'Has he told?' said Leonard, drawing his brows together with the
effort to understand.

'No, Leonard.  The vengeance he had brought on himself did not give
space for repentance; but the pocket-book, with your receipt, was
upon him, and your innocence is established.'

'And let me congratulate you,' added the governor, shaking hands with
him; 'and add, that all I have known of you has been as complete an
exculpation as any discovery can be.'

Leonard's hand was passive, his cheek had become white, his forehead
still knit.  'Axworthy!' he said, still as in a trance.

'Yes.  Hurt in a brawl at Paris.  He was brought to the Hotel Dieu;
and my son Tom was called to see him.'

'Sam Axworthy! repeated Leonard, putting his hand over his eyes, as
if one sensation overpowered everything else; and thus he stood for
some seconds, to the perplexity of both.

They showed him the papers: he gazed, but without comprehension; and
then putting the bag, provided by Tom, into his hand, they sent him,
moving in a sort of mechanical obedience, into the room of one of the
officials to change his dress.

Dr. May poured out to the governor and chaplain, who by this time had
joined them, the history of Leonard's generous behaviour at the time
of the trial, and listened in return to their account of the growing
impression he had created--a belief, almost reluctant, that instead
of being their prime specimen, he could only be in their hands by
mistake.  He was too sincere not to have confessed had he been really
guilty; and in the long run, such behaviour as his would have been
impossible in one unrepentant.  He had been the more believed from
the absence of complaint, demonstration, or assertion; and the
constant endeavour to avoid notice, coupled with the quiet thorough
execution of whatever was set before him with all his might.

This was a theme to occupy the Doctor for a long time; but at last he
grew eager for Leonard's return, and went to hasten him.  He started
up, still in the convict garb, the bag untouched.

'I beg your pardon,' he said, when his friend's exclamation had
reminded him of what had been desired of him; and in a few minutes he
reappeared in the ordinary dress of a gentleman, but the change did
not seem to have made him realize his freedom--there was the same
submissive manner, the same conventional gesture of respect in reply
to the chaplain's warm congratulation.

'Come, Leonard, I am always missing the boat, but I don't want to do
so now.  We must get home to-night.  Have you anything to take with
you?'

'My Bible and Prayer-Book.  They are my own, sir;' as he turned to
the governor.  'May I go to my cell for them?'

Again they tarried long for him, and became afraid that he had fallen
into another reverie; but going to fetch him, found that the delay
was caused by the farewells of all who had come in his way.  The
tidings of his full justification had spread, and each official was
eager to wish him good speed, and thank him for the aid of his
example and support.  The schoolmaster, who had of late treated him
as a friend, kept close to him, rejoicing in his liberation, but
expecting to miss him sorely; and such of the convicts as were within
reach, were not without their share in the general exultation.  He
had never galled them by his superiority; and though Brown, the
clerk, had been his only friend, he had done many an act of kindness;
and when writing letters for the unlearned, had spoken many a
wholesome simple word that had gone home to the heart.  His hand was
as ready for a parting grasp from a fellow-prisoner as from a warder;
and his thought and voice were recalled to leave messages for men out
of reach; his eyes moistened at the kindly felicitations; but when he
was past the oft-trodden precincts of the inner court and long
galleries, the passiveness returned, and he received the last good-
byes of the governor and superior officers, as if only half alive to
their import.  And thus, silent, calm, and grave, his composure like
that of a man walking in his sleep, did Leonard Ward pass the arched
gateway, enter on the outer world, and end his three and a half years
of penal servitude.

'I'm less like an angel than he is like St. Peter,' thought Dr. May,
as he watched the fixed dreamy gaze, 'but this is like "yet wist he
not that it was true, but thought he saw a vision."  When will he
realize liberty, and enjoy it?  I shall do him a greater kindness by
leaving him to himself.'

And in spite of his impatience, Dr. May refrained from disturbing
that open-eyed trance all the way down the long hill, trusting to the
crowd in the steamer for rousing him to perceive that he was no
longer among russet coats and blue shirts; but he stood motionless,
gazing, or at least his face turned, towards the Dorset coast,
uttering no word, making no movement, save when summoned by his
guide--then obeying as implicitly as though it were his jailor.

So they came to the pier; and so they walked the length of Weymouth,
paced the platform, and took their places in the train.  Just as they
had shot beyond the town, and come into the little wooded valleys
beyond, Leonard turned round, and with the first sparkle in his eye,
exclaimed, 'Trees!  Oh, noble trees and hedges!' then turned again to
look in enchantment at the passing groups--far from noble, though
bright with autumn tints--that alternated with the chalk downs.

Dr. May was pleased at this revival, and entertained at the start and
glance of inquiring alarm from an old gentleman in the other corner.
Presently, in the darkness of a cutting, again Leonard spoke: 'Where
are you taking me, Dr. May?'

'Home, of course.'

Whatever the word might imply to the poor lad, he was satisfied, and
again became absorbed in the sight of fields, trees, and hedgerows;
while Dr. May watched the tokens of secret dismay in their fellow-
traveller, who had no doubt understood 'home' to mean his private
asylum.  Indeed, though the steady full dark eyes showed no
aberration, there was a strange deep cave between the lid and the
eyebrow, which gave a haggard look; the spare, worn, grave features
had an expression--not indeed weak, nor wandering, but half
bewildered, half absorbed, moreover, in spite of Tom's minute
selection of apparel, it had been too hasty a toilette for the
garments to look perfectly natural; and the cropped head was so
suspicious, that it was no wonder that at the first station, the old
gentleman gathered up his umbrella, with intense courtesy squeezed
gingerly to the door, carefully avoiding any stumble over perilous
toes, and made his escape--entering another carriage, whence he no
doubt signed cautions against the lunatic and his keeper, since no
one again invaded their privacy.

Perhaps this incident most fully revealed to the Doctor, how unlike
other people his charge was, how much changed from the handsome
spirited lad on whom the trouble had fallen; and he looked again and
again at the profile turned to the window, as fixed and set as though
it had been carved.

'Ah, patience is an exhausting virtue!' said he to himself.  'Verily
it is bearing--bearing up under the full weight; and the long bent
spring is the slower in rebounding in proportion to its inherent
strength.  Poor lad, what protracted endurance it has been!  There is
health and force in his face; no line of sin, nor sickness, nor
worldly care, such as it makes one's heart ache to see aging young
faces; yet how utterly unlike the face of one and-twenty!  I had
rather see it sadder than so strangely settled and sedate!  Shall I
speak to him again?  Not yet: those green hill-sides, those fields
and cattle, must refresh him better than my clavers, after his grim
stony mount of purgatory.  I wish it were a brighter day to greet
him, instead of this gray damp fog.'

The said fog prevented any semblance of sunset; but through the gray
moonlit haze, Leonard kept his face to the window, pertinaciously
clearing openings in the bedewed glass, as though the varying outline
of the horizon had a fascination for him.  At last, after ten minutes
of glaring gas at a junction had by contrast rendered the mist
impenetrable, and reduced the view to brightened clouds of steam, and
to white telegraphic posts, erecting themselves every moment, with
their wires changing their perspective in incessant monotony, he
ceased his gaze, and sat upright in his place, with the same strange
rigid somnambulist air.

Dr. May resolved to rouse him.

'Well, Leonard,' he said, 'this has been a very long fever; but we
are well through it at last--with the young doctor from Paris to our
aid.'

Probably Leonard only heard the voice, not the words, for he passed
his hand over his face, and looked up to the Doctor, saying dreamily,
'Let me see!  Is it all true?' and then, with a grave wistful look,
'It was not I who did that thing, then?'

'My dear!' exclaimed the Doctor, starting forward, and catching hold
of his hand, 'have they brought you to this?'

'I always meant to ask you, if I ever saw you alone again,' said
Leonard.

'But you don't mean that you have imagined it!'

'Not constantly--not when any one was with me,' said Leonard, roused
by Dr. May's evident dismay; and drawn on by his face of anxious
inquiry.  'At Milbank, I generally thought I remembered it just as
they described it in court, and that it was some miserable ruinous
delusion that hindered my confessing; but the odd thing was, that the
moment any one opened my door, I forgot all about it, resolutions and
all, and was myself again.'

'Then surely--surely you left that horror with the solitude?'

'Yes, till lately; but when it did come back, I could not be sure
what was recollection of fact, and what of my own fancy;' and he drew
his brows together in painful effort.  'Did I know who did it, or did
I only guess?'

'You came to a right conclusion, and would not let me act on it.'

'And I really did write the receipt, and not dream it?'

'That receipt has been in my hand.  It was what has brought you
here.'  And now to hearing ears, Dr. May went over the narrative; and
Leonard stood up under the little lamp in the roof of the carriage to
read the papers.

'I recollect--I understand,' he said, presently, and sat down, grave
and meditative--no longer dreamy, but going over events, which had at
last acquired assurance to his memory from external circumstances.
Presently his fingers were clasped together over his face, his head
bent, and then he looked up, and said, 'Do they know it--my sister
and brother?'

'No.  We would not write till you were free.  You must date the first
letter from Stoneborough.'

The thought had brought a bitter pang.  'One half year sooner--' and
he leant back in his seat, with fingers tightly pressed together, and
trembling with emotion.

'Nay, Leonard; may not the dear child be the first to rejoice in the
fulfilment of her own sweet note of comfort?  They could not harm the
innocent.'

'Not innocent,' he said, 'not innocent of causing all the discord
that has ended in their exile, and the dear child's death.'

'Then this is what has preyed on you, and changed you so much more of
late,' said Dr. May.

'When I knew that I was indeed guilty of _her_ death,' said Leonard,
in a calm full conviction of too long standing to be accompanied with
agitation, though permanently bowing him down.

'And you never spoke of this: not to the chaplain?'

'I never could.  It would have implied all the rest that he could not
believe.  And it would not have changed the fact.'

'The aspect of it may change, Leonard.  You know yourself how many
immediate causes combined, of which you cannot accuse yourself--your
brother's wrongheadedness, and all the rest.  And,' added the Doctor,
recovering himself, 'you do see it in other aspects, I know.  Think
of the spirit set free to be near you--free from the world that has
gone so hard with you!'

'I can't keep that thought long; I'm not worthy of it.'

Again he was silent; but presently said, as with a sudden thought,
'You would have told me if there were any news of Ave.'

'No, there has been no letter since her last inclosure for you,' and
then Dr. May gave the details from the papers on the doings of
Henry's division of the army.

'Will Henry let me be with them?' said Leonard, musingly.

'They will come home, depend upon it.  You must wait till you hear.'

Leonard thought a little while, then said, 'Where did you say I was
to go, Dr. May?'

'Where, indeed?  Home, Leonard--home.  Ethel is waiting for us.  To
the High Street.'

Leonard looked up again with his bewildered face, then said, 'I know
what you do with me will be right, but--'

'Had you rather not?' said the Doctor, startled.

'Rather!' and the Doctor, to his exceeding joy, saw the fingers over
his eyes moist with the tears they tried to hide; 'I only meant--' he
added, with an effort, 'you must think and judge--I can't think--
whether I ought.'

'If you ask me that,' said Dr. May, earnestly, 'all I have to say is,
that I don't know what palace is worthy of you.'

There was not much said after that; and the Doctor fell asleep,
waking only at the halts at stations to ask where he was.

At last came 'Blewer!' and as the light shone on the clock, Leonard
said, 'A quarter past twelve!  It is the very train I went by!  Is it
a dream?'

Ten minutes more, and 'Stoneborough' was the cry.  Hastily springing
out, shuffling the tickets into the porter's hand, and grappling
Leonard's arm as if he feared an escape, Dr. May hurried him into the
empty streets, and strode on in silence.

The pull at the door-bell was answered instantly by Ethel herself.
She held out her hand, and grasped that which Leonard had almost
withheld, shrinking as from too sudden a vision; and then she
ardently exchanged kisses with her father.

'Where's Tom?  Gone to bed?' said Dr. May, stepping into the bright
drawing-room.

'No,' said Ethel, demurely; 'he is gone--he is gone to America.'

The Doctor gave a prodigious start, and looked at her again.

'He went this afternoon.' she said.  'There is some matter about the
'Diseases of Climate' that he must settle before the book is
published; and he thought he could best be spared now.  He has left
messages that I will give you by and by; but you must both be
famished.'

Her looks indicated that all was right, and both turned to welcome
the guest, who stood where the first impulse had left him, in the
hall, not moving forward, till he was invited in to the fire, and the
meal already spread.  He then obeyed, and took the place pointed out;
while the Doctor nervously expatiated on the cold, damp, and changes
of train; and Ethel, in the active bashfulness of hidden agitation,
made tea, cut bread, carved chicken, and waited on them with double
assiduity, as Leonard, though eating as a man who had fasted since
early morning, was passive as a little child, merely accepting what
was offered to him, and not even passing his cup till she held out
her hand for it.

She did not even dare to look at him; she could not bear that he
should see her do so; it was enough to know that he was free--that he
was there--that it was over.  She did not want to see how it had
changed him; and, half to set him at ease, half to work off her own
excitement, she talked to her father, and told him of the little
events of his absence till the meal was over; and, at half-past one,
good nights were exchanged with Leonard, and the Doctor saw him to
his room, then returned to his daughter on her own threshold.

'That's a thing to have lived for,' he said.

Ethel locked her hands together, and looked up.

'And now, how about this other denouement?  I might have guessed that
the wind sat in that quarter.'

'But you're not to guess it, papa.  It is really and truly about the
'Diseases of Climate'.'

'Swamp fevers, eh! and agues!'

The 'if you can help it,' was a great comfort now; Ethel could
venture on saying, 'Of course that has something to do with it; but
he really does make the book his object; and please--please don't
give any hint that you suspect anything else.'

'I suppose you are in his confidence; and I must ask no questions.'

'I hated not telling you, and letting you tease him; but he trusted
me just enough not to make me dare to say a word; though I never was
sure there was a word to say.  Now do just once own, papa, that Tom
is the romantic one after all, to have done as he did in the height
of the trouble.'

'Well in his place so should I,' said the Doctor, with the
perverseness of not satisfying expectations of amazement.

'_You_ would,' said Ethel; 'but Tom! would you have thought it of
Tom?'

'Tom has more in him than shows through his spectacles,' answered Dr.
May.  'So!  That's the key to his restless fit.  Poor fellow!  How
did it go with him?  They have not been carrying it on all this time,
surely!'

'Oh, no, no, papa!  She cut him to the heart, poor boy! thought he
was laughing at her--told him it had all been irony.  He has no
notion whether she will ever forgive him.'

'A very good lesson, Master Doctor Thomas,' said Dr. May, with a
twinkle in his eye; 'and turn out as it will, it has done him good--
tided him over a dangerous time of life.  Well, you must tell me all
about it to-morrow; I'm too sleepy to know what I'm talking of.'

The sleepiness that always finished off the Doctor's senses at the
right moment, was a great preservative of his freshness and vigour;
but Ethel was far from sharing it, and was very glad when the clock
sounded a legitimate hour for getting up, and dressing by candle-
light, briefly answering Gertrude's eager questions on the arrival.
It was a pouring wet morning, and she forbade Daisy to go to church--
indeed, it would have been too bad for herself on any morning but
this--any but this, as she repeated, smiling at her own spring of
thankfulness, as she fortified herself with a weight of waterproof,
and came forth in the darkness of 7.45, on a grim November day.

A few steps before her, pacing on, umbrellaless, was a figure which
made her hurry to overtake him.

'O, Leonard! after your journey, and in this rain!'

He made a gesture of courtesy, but moved as if to follow, not join
her.  Did he not know whether he were within the pale of humanity?

'Here is half an umbrella.  Won't you hold it for me?' she said; and
as he followed his instinct of obedience, she put it into his hand,
and took his arm, thinking that this familiarity would best restore
him to a sense of his regained position; and, moreover, feeling glad
and triumphant to be thus leaning, and to have that strong arm to
contend with the driving blast that came howling round the corner of
Minster Street, and fighting for their shelter.  They were both out
of breath when they paused to recover in the deep porch of the
Minster.

'Is Dr. May come home?'

'Yes--and--'

Ethel signed, and Mr. Wilmot held out an earnest hand, with, 'This is
well.  I am glad to see you.'

'Thank you, sir,' said Leonard, heartily; 'and for all--'

'This is your new beginning of life, Leonard.  God bless you in it.'

As Mr. Wilmot passed on, Ethel for the first time ventured to look up
into the eyes--and saw their hollow setting, their loss of sparkle,
but their added steadfastness and resolution.  She could not help
repeating the long-treasured lines: 'And, Leonard,


                         "--grieve not for thy woes,
                    Disgrace and trouble;
                    For He who honour best bestows,
                       Shall give thee double."'


'I've never ceased to be glad you read Marmion with me,' he hastily
said, as they turned into church on hearing a clattering of
choristers behind them.

Clara might have had such sensations when she bound the spurs on her
knight's heels, yet even she could hardly have had so pure,
unselfish, and exquisite a joy as Ethel's, in receiving the pupil who
had been in a far different school from hers.

The gray dawn through the gloom, the depths of shadow in the twilight
church, softening and rendering all more solemn and mysterious, were
more in accordance than bright and beamy sunshine with her subdued
grave thankfulness; and there was something suitable in the fewness
of the congregation that had gathered in the Lady Chapel--so few,
that there was no room for shyness, either in, or for, him who was
again taking his place there, with steady composed demeanour, its
stillness concealing so much.

Ethel had reckoned on the verse--'That He might hear the mournings of
such as are in captivity, and deliver the children appointed unto
death.'  But she had not reckoned on its falling on her ears in the
deep full-toned melodious bass, that came in, giving body to the
young notes of the choristers--a voice so altered and mellowed since
she last had heard it, that it made her look across in doubt, and
recognize in the uplifted face, that here indeed the freed captive
was at home, and lifted above himself.

When the clause, in the Litany, for all prisoners and captives
brought to her the thrill that she had only to look up to see the
fulfilment of many and many a prayer for one captive, for once she
did not hear the response, only saw the bent head, as though there
were thoughts went too deep to find voice.  And again, there was the
special thanksgiving that Mr. Wilmot could not refrain from
introducing for one to whom a great mercy had been vouchsafed.
If Ethel had had to swim home, she would not but have been there!

Charles Cheviot addressed them as they came out of church: 'Good
morning--Mr. Ward, I hope to do myself the honour of calling on you--
I shall see you again, Ethel.

And off he went over the glazy stones to his own house, Ethel knowing
that this cordial salutation and intended call were meant to be
honourable amends for his suspicions; but Leonard, unconscious of the
import, and scarcely knowing indeed that he was addressed, made his
mechanical gesture of respect, and looked up, down, and round,
absorbed in the scene.  'How exactly the same it all looks,' he said;
'the cloister gate, and the Swan, and the postman in the very same
waterproof cape.'

'Do you not feel like being just awake?'

'No; it is more like being a ghost, or somebody else.'

Then the wind drove them on too fast for speech, till as they crossed
the High Street, Ethel pointed through the plane-trees to two round
black eyes, and a shining black nose, at the dining-room window.

'My Mab, my poor little Mab!--You have kept her all this time!  I was
afraid to ask for her.  I could not hope it.'

'I could not get my spoilt child, Gertrude, to bed without taking
Mab, that she might see the meeting.'

Perhaps it served Daisy right that the meeting did not answer her
expectations.  Mab and her master had both grown older; she smelt
round him long before she was sure of him, and then their content in
one another was less shown by fervent rapture, than by the quiet hand
smoothing her silken coat; and, in return, by her wistful eye,
nestling gesture, gently waving tail.

And Leonard!  How was it with him?  It was not easy to tell in his
absolute passiveness.  He seemed to have neither will nor impulse to
speak, move, or act, though whatever was desired of him, he did with
the implicit obedience that no one could bear to see.  They put books
near him, but he did not voluntarily touch one: they asked if he
would write to his sister, and he took the pen in his hand, but did
not accomplish a commencement.  Ethel asked him if he were tired, or
had a headache.

'Thank you, no,' he said; 'I'll write,' and made a dip in the ink.

'I did not mean to tease you,' she said; 'the mail is not going just
yet, and there is no need for haste.  I was only afraid something was
wrong.'

'Thank you,' he said, submissively; 'I will--when I can think; but it
is all too strange.  I have not seen a lady, nor a room like this,
since July three years.'

After that Ethel let him alone, satisfied that peace was the best
means of recovering the exhaustion of his long-suffering.

The difficulty was that this was no house for quiet, especially the
day after the master's return: the door-bell kept on ringing, and
each time he looked startled and nervous, though assured that it was
only patients.  But at twelve o'clock in rushed Mr. Cheviot's little
brother, with a note from Mary, lamenting that it was too wet for
herself, but saying that Charles was coming in the afternoon, and
that he intended to have a dinner-party of old Stoneborough scholars
to welcome Leonard back.

Meanwhile, Martin Cheviot, wanting to see, and not to stare, and to
unite cordiality and unconsciousness, made an awkward mixture of all,
and did not know how to get away; and before he had accomplished it,
Mr. Edward Anderson was announced.  He heartily shook hands with
Leonard, eagerly welcomed him, and talked volubly, and his last
communication was, 'If it clears, you will see Matilda this
afternoon.'

'I did not know she was here.'

'Yes; she and Harvey are come to Mrs. Ledwich's, to stay over
Sunday;' and there was a laugh in the corner of his eye, that
convinced Ethel that the torrents of rain would be no protection.

'Papa,' said she, darting out to meet her father in the hall, 'you
must take Leonard out in your brougham this afternoon, if you don't
want him driven distracted.  If he is in the house, ropes won't hold
Mrs. Harvey Anderson from him!'

So Dr. May invited his guest to share his drive; and the excitement
began to seem unreal when the Doctor returned alone.

'I dropped him at Cocksmoor,' he said.  'It was Richard's notion that
he would be quieter there--able to get out, and go to church, without
being stared at.'

'Did he like it?' asked Gertrude, disappointed.

'If one told him to chop off his finger, he would do it, and never
show whether he liked it.  Richard asked him, and he said, "Thank
you."  I never could get an opening to show him that we did not want
to suppress him; I never saw spirit so quenched.'

Charles Cheviot thought it was a mistake to do what gave the
appearance of suppression--he said that it was due to Leonard to
welcome him as heartily as possible, and not to encourage false
shame, where there was no disgrace; so he set his wife to fill up her
cards for his dinner-party, and included in it Mr. and Mrs. Harvey
Anderson, for the sake of their warm interest in the liberated
prisoner.

'However, Leonard was out of the scrape,' as the Doctor expressed it,
for he had one of his severe sore throats, and was laid up at
Cocksmoor.  Richard was dismayed by his passive obedience--a novelty
to the gentle eldest, who had all his life been submitting, and now
was puzzled by his guest's unfailing acquiescence without a token of
preference or independence: and comically amazed at the implicit
fulfilment of his recommendation to keep the throat in bed--a wise
suggestion, but one that the whole house of May, in their own
persons, would have scouted.  Nothing short of the highest authority
ever kept them there.

The semblance of illness was perhaps a good starting-point for a
return to the ways of the world; and on the day week of his going to
Cocksmoor, Ethel found him by the fire, beginning his letters to his
brother and sister, and looking brighter and more cheery, but so
devoid of voice, that speech could not be expected of him.

She had just looked in again after some parish visiting, when a quick
soldierly step was heard, and in walked Aubrey.

'No; I'm not come to you, Ethel; I'm only come to this fellow;' and
he ardently grasped his hand.  'I've got leave till Monday, and I
shall stay here and see nobody else.--What, a sore throat?  Couldn't
you get wrapped up enough between the two doctors?'

Leonard's eyes lighted as he muttered his hoarse 'Thank you,' and
Ethel lingered for a little desultory talk to her brother,
contrasting the changes that the three years had made in the two
friends.  Aubrey, drilled out of his home scholarly dreaminess by
military and practical discipline, had exchanged his native languor
for prompt upright alertness of bearing and speech; his eye had grown
more steady, his mouth had lost its vague pensive expression, and was
rendered sterner by the dark moustache; definite thought, purpose,
and action, had moulded his whole countenance and person into hopeful
manhood, instead of visionary boyhood.  The other face, naturally the
most full of fire and resolution, looked strangely different in its
serious unsmiling gravity, the deeply worn stamp of patient endurance
and utter isolation.  There was much of rest and calm, and even of
content--but withal a quenched look, as if the lustre of youth and
hope had been extinguished, and the soul had been so driven in upon
itself, that there was no opening to receive external sympathy--a
settled expression, all the stranger on a face with the clear
smoothness of early youth.  One thing at least was unchanged--the
firm friendship and affection--that kept the two constantly casting
glances over one another, to assure themselves of the presence before
them.

Ethel left them together; and her father, who made out that he should
save time by going to Cocksmoor Church on Sunday morning, reported
that the boys seemed very happy together in their own way; but that
Richard reported himself to have been at the sole expense of
conversation in the evening--the only time such an event could ever
have occurred!

Aubrey returned home late on the Sunday evening; and Leonard set off
to walk part of the way with him in the dusk, but ended by coming the
whole distance, for the twilight opened their lips in this renewal of
old habits.

'It is all right to be walking together again,' said Aubrey, warmly;
'though it is not like those spring days.'

'I've thought of them every Sunday.'

'And what are you going to do now, old fellow?'

'I don't know.'

'I hear Bramshaw is going to offer you to come into his office.  Now,
don't do that, Leonard, whatever you do!'

'I don't know.'

'You are to have all your property back, you know, and you could do
much better for yourself than that.'

'I can't tell till I have heard from my brother.'

'But, Leonard, promise me now--you'll not go out and make a Yankee of
yourself.'

'I can't tell; I shall do what he wishes.'

Aubrey presently found that Leonard seemed to have no capacity to
think or speak of the future or the past.  He set Aubrey off on his
own concerns, and listened with interest, asking questions that
showed him perfectly alive to what regarded his friend, but the
passive inaction of will and spirits still continued, and made him
almost a disappointment.

On Monday morning there was a squabble between the young engineer and
the Daisy, who was a profound believer in the scientific object of
Tom's journey, and greatly resented the far too obvious construction
thereof.

'You must read lots of bad novels at Chatham, Aubrey; it is like the
fag end of the most trumpery of them all!'

'You haven't gone far enough in your mathematics, you see, Daisy.
You think one and one--'

'Make two.  So I say.'

'I've gone into the higher branches.'

'I didn't think you were so simple and commonplace.  It would be so
stupid to think he must--just because he could not help making this
discovery.'

'All for want of the higher branches of mathematics!  One plus one--
equals one.'

'One minus common sense, plus folly, plus romance, minus anything to
do.  Your equation is worthy of Mrs. Harvey Anderson.  I gave her a
good dose of the 'Diseases of Climate!''

Aubrey was looking at Ethel all the time Gertrude was triumphing; and
finally he said, 'I've no absolute faith in disinterested
philanthropy to a younger brother--whatever I had before I went to
the Tyrol.'

'What has that to do with it?' asked Gertrude.  'Everybody was cut
up, and wanted a change--and you more than all.  I do believe the
possibility of a love affair absolutely drives people mad: and now
they must needs saddle it upon poor Tom--just the one of the family
who is not so stupid, but has plenty of other things to think about.'

'So you think it a stupid pastime?'

'Of course it is.  Why, just look.  Hasn't everybody in the family
turned stupid, and of no use, as soon at they went and fell in love!
Only good old Ethel here has too much sense, and that's what makes
her such a dear old gurgoyle.  And Harry--he is twice the fun after
he comes home, before he gets his fit of love.  And all the story
books that begin pleasantly, the instant that love gets in, they are
just alike--so stupid!  And now, if you haven't done it yourself, you
want to lug poor innocent Tom in for it.'

'When your time comes, may I be there to see!'

He retreated from her evident designs of clapper-clawing him; and she
turned round to Ethel with, 'Now, isn't it stupid, Ethel!'

'Very stupid to think all the zest of life resides in one particular
feeling,' said Ethel; 'but more stupid to talk of what you know
nothing about.'

Aubrey put in his head for a hurried farewell, and, 'Telegraph to me
when Mrs. Thomas May comes home.'

'If Mrs. Thomas May comes home, I'll--'

'Give her that chair cover,' said Ethel; and her idle needlewoman,
having been eight months working one corner of it, went off into fits
of laughter, regarding its completion as an equally monstrous feat
with an act of cannibalism on the impossible Mrs. Thomas May.

How different were these young things, with their rhodomontade and
exuberant animation and spirits, from him in whom all the sparkle and
aspiration of life seemed extinguished!




CHAPTER XXVII



A cup was at my lips: it pass'd
As passes the wild desert blast!
           *****
I woke--around me was a gloom
And silence of the tomb;
But in that awful solitude
That little spirit by me stood--
But oh, how changed!
            --Thoughts in Past Years


Under Richard's kind let-alone system, Leonard was slowly recovering
tone.  First he took to ruling lines in the Cocksmoor account-books,
then he helped in their audit; and with occupation came the sense of
the power of voluntary exertion.  He went and came freely, and began
to take long rambles in the loneliest parts of the heath and
plantations, while Richard left him scrupulously to his own devices,
and rejoiced to see them more defined and vigorous every day.  The
next stop was to assist in the night-school where Richard had
hitherto toiled single-handed among very rough subjects.  The
technical training and experience derived from Leonard's work under
the schoolmaster at Portland were invaluable; and though taking the
lead was the last thing he would have thought of, he no sooner
entered the school than attention and authority were there, and
Richard found that what had to him been a vain and patient struggle
was becoming both effective and agreeable.  Interest in his work was
making Leonard cheerful and alert, though still grave, and shrinking
from notice--avoiding the town by daylight, and only coming to Dr.
May's in the dark evenings.

On the last Sunday in Advent, Richard was engaged to preach at his
original curacy, and that the days before and after it should
likewise be spent away from home was insisted on after the manner of
the friends of hard-working clergy.  He had the less dislike to going
that he could leave his school-work to Leonard, who was to be housed
at his father's, and there was soon perceived to have become a much
more ordinary member of society than on his first arrival.

One evening, there was a loud peal at the door-bell, and the maid--
one of Ethel's experiments of training--came in.

'Please, sir, a gentleman has brought a cockatoo and a letter and a
little boy from the archdeacon.'

'Archdeacon!' cried Dr. May, catching sight of the handwriting on the
letter and starting up.  'Archdeacon Norman--'

'One of Norman's stray missionaries and a Maori newly caught; oh,
what fun!' cried Daisy, in ecstasy.

At that moment, through the still open door, walking as if he had
lived there all his life, there entered the prettiest little boy that
ever was seen--a little knickerbocker boy, with floating rich dark
ringlets, like a miniature cavalier coming forth from a picture, with
a white cockatoo on his wrist.  Not in the least confused, he went
straight towards Dr. May and said, 'Good-morning, grandpapa.'

'Ha!  And who may you be, my elfin prince?' said the Doctor.

'I'm Dickie--Richard Rivers May--I'm not an elfin prince,' said the
boy, with a moment's hurt feeling.  'Papa sent me.'  By that time the
boy was fast in his grandfather's embrace, and was only enough
released to give him space to answer the eager question, 'Papa--papa
here?'

'Oh no; I came with Mr. Seaford.'

The Doctor hastily turned Dickie over to the two aunts, and hastened
forth to the stranger, whose name he well knew as a colonist's son, a
favourite and devoted clerical pupil of Norman's.

'Aunt Ethel,' said little Richard, with instant recognition; 'mamma
said you would be like her, but I don't think you will.'

'Nor I, Dickie, but we'll try.  And who's that!'

'Yes, what am I to be like?' asked Gertrude.

'You're not Aunt Daisy--Aunt Daisy is a little girl.'

Gertrude made him the lowest of curtseys; for not to be taken for a
little girl was the compliment she esteemed above all others.
Dickie's next speech was, 'And is that Uncle Aubrey?'

'No, that's Leonard.'

Dickie shook hands with him very prettily; but then returning upon
Ethel, observed, 'I thought it was Uncle Aubrey, because soldiers
always cut their hair so close.'

The other guest was so thoroughly a colonist, and had so little idea
of anything but primitive hospitality, that he had had no notion of
writing beforehand to announce his coming, and accident had delayed
the letters by which Norman and Meta had announced their decision of
sending home their eldest boy under his care.

'Papa had no time to teach me alone,' said Dickie, who seemed to have
been taken into the family councils; 'and mamma is always busy, and I
wasn't getting any good with some of the boys that come to school to
papa.'

'Indeed, Mr. Dickie!' said the Doctor, full of suppressed laughter.

'It is quite true,' said Mr. Seaford; 'there are some boys that the
archdeacon feels bound to educate, but who are not desirable
companions for his son.'

'It is a great sacrifice,' remarked the young gentleman.

'Oh, Dickie, Dickie,' cried Gertrude, in fits, 'don't you be a
prig--'

'Mamma said it,' defiantly answered Dickie.

'Only a parrot,' said Ethel, behind her handkerchief; but Dickie, who
heard whatever he was not meant to hear, answered--

'It is not a parrot, it is a white cockatoo, that the chief of
(something unutterable) brought down on his wrist like a hawk to the
mission-ship; and that mamma sent as a present to Uncle George.'

'I prefer the parrot that has fallen to my share,' observed the
Doctor.

It was by this time perched beside him, looking perfectly at ease and
thoroughly at home.  There was something very amusing in the aspect
of the little man; he so completely recalled his mother's humming-
bird title by the perfect look of finished porcelain perfection that
even a journey from the Antipodes with only gentleman nursemaids had
not destroyed.  The ringleted rich brown hair shone like glossy silk,
the cheeks were like painting, the trim well-made legs and small
hands and feet looked dainty and fairy-like, yet not at all
effeminate; hands and face were a healthy brown, and contrasted with
the little white collar, the set of which made Ethel exclaim, 'Just
look, Daisy, that's what I always told you about Meta's doings.  Only
I can't understand it.--Dickie, have the fairies kept you in repair
ever since mamma dressed you last?'

'We haven't any fairies in New Zealand,' he replied; 'and mamma never
dressed me since I was a baby!'

'And what are you now?' said the Doctor.

'I am eight years old,' said this piece of independence, perfectly
well mannered, and au fait in all the customs of the tea-table; and
when the meal was over, he confidentially said to his aunt, 'Shall I
come and help you wash up?  I never break anything.'

Ethel declined this kind offer; but he hung on her hand and asked if
he might go and see the schoolroom, where papa and Uncle Harry used
to blow soap-bubbles.  She lighted a candle, and the little gentleman
showed himself minutely acquainted with the whole geography of the
house, knew all the rooms and the pictures, and where everything had
happened, even to adventures that Ethel had forgotten.

'It is of no use to say there are no fairies in New Zealand,' said
Dr. May, taking him on his knee, and looking into the blue depths of
Norman's eyes.  'You have been head-waiter to Queen Mab, and
perpetually here when she made you put a girdle round the earth in
forty minutes.'

'Papa read that to the boys, and they said it was stupid and no use,'
said Dickie; 'but papa said that the electric telegraph would do it.'

The little cavalier appeared not to know what it was to be at a loss
for an answer, and the joint letter from his parents explained that
his precocious quickness was one of their causes for sending him
home.  He was so deft and useful as to be important in the household,
and necessarily always living with his father and mother, he took
constant part in their conversation, and was far more learned in
things than in books.  In the place where they were settled,
trustworthy boy society was unattainable, and they had felt their
little son, in danger of being spoilt and made forward from his very
goodness and brightness--wrote Meta, 'If you find him a forward imp,
recollect it is my fault for having depended so much on him.'

His escort was a specimen of the work Norman had done, not actual
mission-work, but preparation and inspiriting of those who went forth
on the actual task.  He was a simple-minded, single-hearted man, one
of the first pupils in Norman's college, and the one who had most
fully imbibed his spirit.  He had been for some years a clergyman,
and latterly had each winter joined the mission voyage among the
Melanesian Isles, returning to their homes the lads brought for the
summer for education to the mission college in New Zealand, and
spending some time at a station upon one or other of the islands.  He
had come back from the last voyage much out of health, and had been
for weeks nursed by Meta, until a long rest having been declared
necessary, he had been sent to England as the only place where he
would not be tempted to work, and was to visit his only remaining
relation, a sister, who had married an officer and was in Ireland.
He was burning to go back again, and eagerly explained--sagely
corroborated by the testimony of the tiny archdeacon--that his
illness was to be laid to the blame of his own imprudence, not to the
climate; and he dwelt upon the delights of the yearly voyage among
the lovely islands, beautiful beyond imagination, fenced in by coral
breakwaters, within which the limpid water displayed exquisite sea-
flowers, shells, and fishes of magical gorgeousness of hue; of the
brilliant white beach, fringing the glorious vegetation, cocoa-nut,
bread-fruit, banana, and banyan, growing on the sloping sides of
volcanic rocks; of mysterious red-glowing volcano lights seen far out
at sea at night, of glades opening to show high-roofed huts covered
with mats: of canoes decorated with the shining white shells
resembling a poached egg; of natives clustering round, eager and
excited, seldom otherwise than friendly; though in hitherto unvisited
places, or in those where the wanton outrages of sandal-wood traders
had excited distrust, caution was necessary, and there was peril
enough to give the voyage a full character of heroism and adventure.
Bows and poisoned arrows were sometimes brought down--and Dickie
insisted that they had been used--but in general the mission was
recognized, and an eager welcome given; presents of fish-hooks, or of
braid and handkerchiefs, established a friendly feeling; and
readiness--in which the Hand of the Maker must be recognized--was
manifested to intrust lads to the mission for the summer's training
at the college in New Zealand--wild lads, innocent of all clothing,
except marvellous adornments of their woolly locks, wigged out
sometimes into huge cauliflowers whitened with coral lime, or
arranged quarterly red and white, and their noses decorated with
rings, which were their nearest approach to a pocket, as they served
for the suspension of fish-hooks, or any small article.  A radiate
arrangement of skewers from the nose, in unwitting imitation of a
cat's whiskers, had even been known.  A few days taught dressing and
eating in a civilized fashion; and time, example, and the wonderful
influence of the head of the mission, trained these naturally
intelligent boys into much that was hopeful.  Dickie, who had been
often at the college, had much to tell of familiarity with the light
canoes that some cut out and launched; of the teaching them English
games, of their orderly ways in school and in hall; of the prayers in
their many tongues, and of the baptism of some, after full probation,
and at least one winter's return to their own isles, as a test of
their sincerity and constancy.  Much as the May family had already
heard of this wonderful work, it came all the closer and nearer now.
The isle of Alan Ernescliffe's burial-place had now many Christians
in it.  Harry's friend, the young chief David, was dead; but his
people were some of them already teachers and examples, and the whole
region was full to overflowing of the harvest, calling out for
labourers to gather it in.

Silent as usual, Leonard nevertheless was listening with all his
heart, and with parted lips and kindling eyes that gave back somewhat
of his former countenance.  Suddenly his face struck Mr. Seaford, and
turning on him with a smile, he said, 'You should be with us
yourself, you look cut out for mission work.'

Leonard murmured something, blushed up to the ears, and subsided, but
the simple, single-hearted Mr. Seaford, his soul all on one object,
his experience only in one groove, by no means laid aside the
thought, and the moment he was out of Leonard's presence, eagerly
asked who that young man was.

'Leonard Ward? he is--he is the son of an old friend,' replied Dr.
May, a little perplexed to explain his connection.

'What is he doing?  I never saw any one looking more suited for our
work.'

'Tell him so again,' said Dr. May; 'I know no one that would be
fitter.'

They were all taken up with the small grandson the next day.  He was
ready in his fairy-page trimness to go to the early service at the
Minster; but he was full of the colonial nil admirari principle, and
was quite above being struck by the grand old building, or allowing
its superiority--either to papa's own church or Auckland Cathedral.
They took him to present to Mary on their way back from church, when
he was the occasion of a great commotion by carrying the precious
Master Charlie all across the hall to his mamma, and quietly
observing in resentment at the outcry, that of course he always
carried little Ethel about when mamma and nurse were busy.  After
breakfast, when he had finished his investigations of all Dr. May's
domains, and much entertained Gertrude by his knowledge of them,
Ethel set him down to write a letter to his father, and her own to
Meta being engrossing, she did not look much more after him till Dr.
May came in, and said, 'I want you to sketch off a portrait of her
dicky-bird for Meta;' and he put before her a natural history with a
figure of that tiny humming-bird which is endowed with swansdown
knickerbockers.

'By the bye, where is the sprite?'

He was not to be found; and when dinner-time, and much calling and
searching, failed to produce him, his grandfather declared that he
was gone back to Elf-land; but Leonard recollected certain particular
inquiries about the situation of the Grange and of Cocksmoor, and it
was concluded that he had anticipated the Doctor's intentions of
taking him and Mr. Seaford there in the afternoon.  The notion was
confirmed by the cockatoo having likewise disappeared; but there was
no great anxiety, since the little New Zealander appeared as capable
of taking care of himself as any gentleman in Her Majesty's
dominions; and a note had already been sent to his aunt informing her
of his arrival.  Still, a summons to the Doctor in an opposite
direction was inopportune, the more so as the guest was to remain at
Stoneborough only this one day, and had letters and messages for Mr.
and Mrs. Rivers, while it was also desirable to see whether the boy
had gone to Cocksmoor.

Leonard proposed to become Mr. Seaford's guide to the Grange, learn
whether Dickie were there, and meet the two ladies at Cocksmoor with
the tidings, leaving Mr. Seaford and the boy to be picked up by the
Doctor on his return.  It was his first voluntary offer to go
anywhere, though he had more than once been vainly invited to the
Grange with Richard.

Much conversation on the mission took place during the walk, and
resulted in Mr. Seaford's asking Leonard if his profession were
settled.  'No,' he said; and not at all aware that his companion did
not know what every other person round him knew, he added, 'I have
been thrown out of everything--I am waiting to hear from my brother.'

'Then you are not at a University?'

'Oh no, I was a clerk.'

'Then if nothing is decided, is it impossible that you should turn
your eyes to our work?'

'Stay,' said Leonard, standing still; 'I must ask whether you know
all about me.  Would it be possible to admit to such work as yours
one who, by a terrible mistake, has been under sentence of death and
in confinement for three years?'

'I must think!  Let us talk of this another time.  Is that the
Grange?' hastily exclaimed the missionary, rather breathlessly.
Leonard with perfect composure replied that it was, pointed out the
different matters of interest, and, though a little more silent,
showed no other change of manner.  He was asking the servant at the
door if Master May were there, when Mr. Rivers came out and conducted
both into the drawing room, where little Dickie was, sure enough.  It
appeared that, cockatoo on wrist, he had put his pretty face up to
the glass of Mrs Rivers's morning-room, and had asked her, 'Is this
mamma's room, Aunt Flora?  Where's Margaret?'

Uncle, aunt, and cousin had all been captivated by him, and he was at
present looking at the display of all Margaret's treasures, keenly
appreciating the useful and ingenious, but condemning the merely
ornamental as only fit for his baby sister.  Margaret was wonderfully
gracious and child-like; but perhaps she rather oppressed him; for
when Leonard explained that he must go on to meet Miss May at
Cocksmoor, the little fellow sprang up, declaring that he wanted to
go thither; and though told that his grandfather was coming for him,
and that the walk was long, he insisted that he was not tired; and
Mr. Seaford, finding him not to be dissuaded, broke off his
conversation in the midst, and insisted on accompanying him, leaving
Mr. and Mrs. Rivers rather amazed at colonial breeding.

The first time Mr. Seaford could accomplish being alone with Dr. May,
he mysteriously shut the door, and began, 'I am afraid Mrs. Rivers
thought me very rude; but though no doubt he is quite harmless, I
could not let the child or the ladies be alone with him.'

'With whom?'

'With your patient.'

'What patient of mine have you been seeing to-day?' asked Dr. May,
much puzzled.

'Oh, then you consider him as convalescent, and certainly he does
seem rational on every other point; but is this one altogether an
hallucination?'

'I have not made out either the hallucination or the convalescent.  I
beg your pardon,' said the courteous Doctor; 'but I cannot understand
whom you have seen.'

'Then is not that young Ward a patient of yours?  He gave me to
understand to-day that he has been under confinement for three
years--'

'My poor Leonard!' exclaimed the Doctor; 'I wish his hair would grow!
This is the second time!  And did you really never hear of the Blewer
murder, and of Leonard Ward?'

Mr. Seaford had some compound edifice of various murders in his mind,
and required full enlightenment.  Having heard the whole, he was
ardent to repair his mistake, both for Leonard's own sake, and that
of his cause.  The young man was indeed looking ill and haggard; but
there was something in the steady eyes, hollow though they still
were, and in the determined cast of features, that strangely
impressed the missionary with a sense of his being moulded for the
work; and on the first opportunity a simple straightforward
explanation of the error was laid before Leonard, with an entreaty
that if he had no duties to bind him at home, he would consider the
need of labourers in the great harvest of the Southern Seas.

Leonard made no answer save 'Thank you' and that he would think.  The
grave set features did not light up as they had done unconsciously
when listening without personal thought; he only looked considering,
and accepted Mr. Seaford's address in Ireland, promising to write
after hearing from his brother.

Next morning, Dr. May gave notice that an old patient was coming to
see him, and must be asked to luncheon.  Leonard soon after told
Ethel that he should not be at home till the evening, and she thought
he was going to Cocksmoor, by way of avoiding the stranger.  In the
twilight, however, Dr. May, going up to the station to see his
patient off, was astonished to see Leonard emerge from a second-class
carriage.

'You here! the last person I expected.'

'I have only been to W-- about my teeth.'

'What, have you been having tooth-ache?'

'At times, but I have had two out, so I hope there is an end of it.'

'And you never mentioned it, you Stoic!'

'It was only at night.'

'And how long has this been?'

'Since I had that cold; but it was no matter.'

'No matter, except that it kept you looking like Count Ugolino, and
me always wondering what was the matter with you.  And'--detaining
him for a moment under the lights of the station--'this extraction
must have been a pretty business, to judge by your looks!  What did
the dentist do to you?'

'It is not so much that' said Leonard, low and sadly; 'but I began to
have a hope, and I see it won't do.'

'What do you mean, my dear boy? what have you been doing?'

'I have been into my old cell again,' said he, under his breath; and
Dr. May, leaning on his arm, felt his nervous tremor.

'Prisoner of the Bastille, eh, Leonard!'

'I had long been thinking that I ought to go and call on Mr. Reeve
and thank him.'

'But he does not receive calls there.'

'No,' said Leonard, as if the old impulse to confidence had returned;
'but I have never been so happy since, as I was in that cell, and I
wanted to see it again.  Not only for that reason,' he added, 'but
something that Mr. Seaford said brought back a remembrance of what
Mr. Wilmot told me when my life was granted--something about the
whole being preparation for future work--something that made me feel
ready for anything.  It had all gone from me--all but the remembrance
of the sense of a blessed Presence and support in that condemned
cell, and I thought perhaps ten minutes in the same place would bring
it back to me.'

'And did they?'

'No, indeed.  As soon as the door was locked, it all went back to
July 1860, and worse.  Things that were mercifully kept from me then,
mere abject terror of death, and of that kind of death--the disgrace
--the crowds--all came on me, and with them, the misery all in one of
those nine months; the loathing of those eternal narrow waved white
walls, the sense of their closing in, the sickening of their
sameness, the longing for a voice, the other horror of thinking
myself guilty.  The warder said it was ten minutes--I thought it
hours!  I was quite done for, and could hardly get down-stairs.  I
knew the spirit was being crushed out of me by the solitary period,
and it is plain that I must think of nothing that needs nerve or
presence of mind!' he added, in a tone of quiet dejection.

'You are hardly in a state to judge of your nerve, after sleepless
nights and the loss of your teeth.  Besides, there is a difference
between the real and imaginary, as you have found; you who, in the
terrible time of real anticipation, were a marvel in that very point
of physical resolution.'

'I could keep thoughts out _then_,' he said; 'I was master of
myself.'

'You mean that the solitude unhinged you?  Yet I always found you
brave and cheerful.'

'The sight of you made me so.  Nay, the very sight or sound of any
human being made a difference!  And now you all treat me as if I had
borne it well, but I did not.  It was all that was left me to do, but
indeed I did not.'

'What do you mean by bearing it well?' said the Doctor, in the tone
in which he would have questioned a patient.

'Living--as--as I thought I should when I made up my mind to life
instead of death,' said Leonard; 'but all that went away.  I let it
slip, and instead came everything possible of cowardice, and hatred,
and bitterness.  I lost my hold of certainty what I had done or what
I had not, and the horror, the malice, the rebellion that used to
come on me in that frightful light white silent place, were
unutterable!  I wish you would not have me among you all, when I know
there can hardly be a wicked thought that did not surge over me.'

'To be conquered.'

'To conquer me,' he said, in utter lassitude.

'Stay.  Did they ever make you offend wilfully?'

'There was nothing I could offend in.'

'Your tasks of work, for instance.'

'I often had a savage frantic abhorrence of it, but I always brought
myself to do it, and it did me good; it would have done more if it
had been less mechanical.  But it often was only the instinct of not
degrading myself like the lowest prisoners.'

'Well, there was your conduct to the officials.'

'Oh! one could not help being amenable to them, they were so kind.
Besides, these demons never came over me except when I was alone.'

'And one thing more, Leonard; did these demons, as you well call
them, invade your devotions?'

'Never,' he answered readily; then recalling himself--'not at the set
times I mean, though they often made me think the comfort I had there
mere hypocrisy and delusion, and be nearly ready to give over what
depended on myself.  Chapel was always joy; it brought change and the
presence of others, if nothing else; and that would in itself have
been enough to banish the hauntings.'

'And they did not interfere with your own readings?' said the Doctor,
preferring this to the word that he meant.

'I could not let them,' said Leonard.  'There was always refreshment;
it was only before and after that all would seem mockery,
profanation, or worse still, delusion and superstition--as if my very
condition proved that there was none to hear.'

'The hobgoblin had all but struck the book out of Christian's hand,'
said Dr. May, pressing his grasp on Leonard's shuddering arm.  'You
are only telling me that you have been in the valley of the shadow of
death; you have not told me that you lost the rod and staff.'

'No, I must have been helped, or I should not have my senses now.'

And perhaps it was the repressed tremor of voice and frame rather
than the actual words that induced the Doctor to reply--'That is the
very point, Leonard.  It is the temptation to us doctors to ascribe
too much to the physical and too little to the moral; and perhaps you
would be more convinced by Mr. Wilmot than by me; but I do verily
believe that all the anguish you describe could and would have been
insanity if grace had not been given you to conquer it.  It was a
tottering of the mind upon its balance; and, humanly speaking, it was
the self-control that enabled you to force yourself to your duties,
and find relief in them, which saved you.  I should just as soon call
David conquered because the "deep waters had come in over his soul."'

'You can never know how true those verses are,' said Leonard, with
another shiver.

'At least I know to what kind of verses they all lead,' said the
Doctor; 'and I am sure they led you, and that you had more and
brighter hours than you now remember.'

'Yes, it was not all darkness.  I believe there were more spaces than
I can think of now, when I was very fairly happy, even at
Pentonville; and at Portland all did well with me, till last spring,
and then the news from Massissauga brought back all the sense of
blood-guiltiness, and it was worse than ever.'

'And that sense was just as morbid as your other horrible doubt,
about which you asked me when we were coming home.'

'I see it was now, but that was the worst time of all--the monotony
of school, and the sense of hypocrisy and delusion in teaching--the
craving to confess, if only for the sake of the excitement, and the
absolute inability to certify myself whether there was any crime to
confess--I can't talk about it.  And even chapel was not the same
refreshment, when one was always teaching a class in it, as coming in
fresh only for the service.  Even that was failing me, or I thought
it was!  No, I do not know how I could have borne it much longer.'

'No, Leonard, you could not; Tom and I both saw that in your looks,
and quite expected to hear of your being ill; but, you see, we are
never tried above what we can bear!'

'No,' said Leonard, very low, as if he had been much struck; and then
he added, after an interval, 'It is over now, and there's no need to
recollect it except in the way of thanks.  The question is what it
has left me fit for.  You know, Dr. May,' and his voice trembled, 'my
first and best design in the happy time of Coombe, the very crown of
my life, was this very thing--to be a missionary.  But for myself, I
might be in training now.  If I had only conquered my temper, and
accepted that kind offer of Mr. Cheviot's, all this would never have
been, and I should have had my youth, my strength, and spirit, my
best, to devote.  I turned aside because of my obstinacy, against
warning, and now how can I offer?--one who has stood at the bar,
lived among felons, thought such thoughts--the released convict with
a disgraced name!  It would just be an insult to the ministry!  No, I
know how prisoners feel.  I can deal with them.  Let me go back to
what I am trained for.  My nerve and spirit have been crushed out; I
am fit for nothing else.  The worst thing that has remained with me
is this nervousness--cowardice is its right name--starting at the
sound of a door, or at a fresh face--a pretty notion that I should
land among savages!'

Dr. May had begun an answer about the remains of the terrible ordeal
that might in itself have been part of Leonard's training, when they
reached the house door.

These nerves, or whatever they were, did indeed seem disposed to have
no mercy on their owner; for no sooner had he sat down in the warm
drawing-room, than such severe pain attacked his face as surpassed
even his powers of concealment.  Dr. May declared it was all
retribution for his unfriendliness in never seeking sympathy or
advice, which might have proved the evil to be neuralgia and saved
the teeth, instead of aggravating the evil by their extraction.

'I suspect he has been living on nothing,' said Dr. May, when, in a
lull of the pain, Leonard had gone to bed.

'Papa!' exclaimed Gertrude, 'don't you know what Richard's
housekeeping is?  Don't you recollect his taking that widow for a
cook because she was such a good woman?'

'I don't think it was greatly Richard's fault,' said Ethel.  'I can
hardly get Leonard to make a sparrow's meal here, and most likely his
mouth has been too uncomfortable.'

'Ay, that never seeking sympathy is to me one of the saddest parts of
all.  He has been so long shut within himself, that be can hardly
feel that any one cares for him.'

'He does so more than at first,' said Ethel.

'Much more.  I have heard things from him to-night that are a
revelation to me.  Well, he has come through, and I believe he is
recovering it; but the three threads of our being have all had a
terrible wrench, and if body and mind come out unscathed, it is the
soundness of the spirit that has brought them through.'

A sleepless night and morning of violent pain ensued; but, at least
thus much had been gained--that there was no refusal of sympathy, but
a grateful acceptance of kindness, so that it almost seemed a
recurrence to the Coombe days; and as the pain lessened, the
enjoyment of Ethel's attendance seemed to grow upon Leonard in the
gentle languor of relief; and when, as she was going out for the
afternoon, she came back to see if he was comfortable in his easy-
chair by the drawing-room fire, and put a screen before his face, he
looked up and thanked her with a smile--the first she had seen.

When she returned, the winter twilight had closed in, and he was
leaning back in the same attitude, but started up, so that she asked
if he had been asleep.

'I don't know--I have seen her again.'

'Seen whom?'

'Minna, my dear little Minna!'

'Dreamt of her?'

'I cannot tell,' he said; 'I only know she was there; and then rising
and standing beside Ethel, he continued--'Miss May, you remember the
night of her death?'

'Easter Eve?'

'Well,' continued he, 'that night I saw her.'

'I remember,' said Ethel, 'that Mr. Wilmot told us you knew at once
what he was come to tell you.'

'It was soon after I was in bed, the lights were out, and I do not
think I was asleep, when she was by me--not the plump rosy thing she
used to be, but tall and white, her hair short and waving back, her
eyes--oh! so sad and wistful, but glad too--and her hands held out--
and she said, "Turn you to the stronghold, ye prisoners of hope.  O
Leonard, dear, it does not hurt."'

'It was the last thing she did say.'

'Yes, so Ave's letter said.  And observe, one o'clock in Indiana is
half-past nine with us.  Then her hair--I wrote to ask, for you know
it used to be in long curls, but it had been cut short, like what I
saw.  Surely, surely, it was the dear loving spirit allowed to show
itself to me before going quite away to her home!'

'And you have seen her again?'

'Just now'--his voice was even lower than before--'since it grew
dark, as I sat there.  I had left off reading, and had been thinking,
when there she was, all white but not wistful now; "Leonard, dear,"
she said, "it has not hurt;" and then, "He brought me forth, He
brought me forth even to a place of liberty, because He had a favour
unto me."'

'O, Leonard, it must have made you very happy.'

'I am very thankful for it,' he said.  Then after a pause, 'You will
not speak of it--you will not tell me to think it the action of my
own mind upon itself.'

'I can only believe it a great blessing come to comfort you and cheer
you,' said Ethel: 'cheer you as with the robin-note, as papa called
it, that sung all through the worst of times!  Leonard, I am afraid
you will think it unkind of me to have withheld it so long, but papa
told me you could not yet bear to hear of Minna.  I have her last
present for you in charge--the slippers she was working for that
eighteenth birthday of yours.  She would go on, and we never knew
whether she fully understood your danger; it was always "they could
not hurt you," and at last, when they were finished, and I had to
make her understand that you could not have them, she only looked up
to me and said, "Please keep them, and give them to him when he comes
home."  She never doubted, first or last.'

Ethel, who had daily been watching for the moment, took out the
parcel from the drawer, with the address in the childish writing, the
date in her own.

Large tears came dropping from Leonard's eyes, as he undid the paper,
and looked at the work, then said, 'Last time I saw that pattern, my
mother was working it!  Dear child!  Yes, Miss May, I am glad you did
not give them to me before.  I always felt as if my blow had glanced
aside and fallen on Minna; but somehow I feel more fully how happy
she is!'

'She was the messenger of comfort throughout to Ave and to Ella,'
said Ethel, 'and well she may be to you still.'

'I have dreaded to ask,' said Leonard; 'but there was a line in one
letter I was shown that made me believe that climate was not the
whole cause.'

'No,' said Ethel; 'at least the force to resist it had been lost, as
far as we can see.  It was a grievous error of your brother's to
think her a child who could forget.  She pined to hear of you, and
that one constant effort of faith and love was too much, and wasted
away the little tender body.  But oh, Leonard, how truly she can say
that her captivity is over, and that it has not hurt!'

'It has not hurt,' musingly repeated Leonard.  'No, she is beyond the
reach of distracting temptations and sorrows; it has only made her
brighter to have suffered what it breaks one's heart to think of.  It
has not hurt.'

'Nothing from without does hurt!' said Ethel, 'unless one lets it.'

'Hurt what?' he asked.

'The soul,' returned Ethel.  'Mind and body may be hurt, and it is
not possible to know one's mind from one's soul while one is alive,
but as long as the will and faith are right, to think the soul can be
hurt seems to me like doubting our Protector.'

'But if the will have been astray?'

'Then while we repent, we must not doubt our Redeemer.'

Dickie ran in at the moment, calling for Aunt Ethel.  She had dropped
her muff.  Leonard picked it up, and as she took it, he wrung her
hand with an earnestness that showed his gratitude.




CHAPTER XXVIII



Tender as woman; manliness and meekness
       In him were so allied,
That those who judged him by his strength or weakness,
       Knew but a single side.--J. WHITTLER


It promised to be a brilliant Christmas at Stoneborough, though
little Dickie regarded the feast coming in winter as a perverse
English innovation, and was grand on the superiority of supple jack
above holly.  Decorations had been gradually making their way into
the Minster, and had advanced from being just tolerated to being
absolutely delighted in; but Dr. Spencer, with his knack of doing
everything, was sorely missed as a head, and Mr. Wilmot insisted that
the May forces should come down and work the Minster, on the 23rd,
leaving the Eve for the adornment of Cocksmoor, after the return of
its incumbent.  Mary, always highly efficient in that line, joined
them; and Leonard's handiness and dexterity in the arts relating to
carpentry were as quietly useful as little Dickie's bright readiness
in always handing whatever was wanting.

The work was pretty well over, when Aubrey, who had just arrived with
leave for a week, came down, and made it desultory.  Dickie, whose
imagination had been a good deal occupied by his soldier uncle,
wanted to study him, and Gertrude was never steady when Aubrey was
near.  Presently it was discovered that the door to the tower stair
was open.  The ascent of the tower was a feat performed two or three
times in a lifetime at Stoneborough.  Harry had once beguiled Ethel
and Mary up, but Gertrude had never gone, and was crazy to go, as was
likewise Dickie.  Moreover, Aubrey and Gertrude insisted that it was
only proper that Ethel should pay her respects to her prototype the
gurgoyle, they wanted to compare her with him, and ordered her up; in
fact their spirits were too high for them to be at ease within the
church, and Ethel, maugre her thirty years, partook of the
exhilaration enough to delight in an extraordinary enterprise, and as
nothing remained but a little sweeping up, they left this to the
superintendence of Mary and Mr. Wilmot, and embarked upon the narrow
crumbling steps of the spiral stair, that led up within an unnatural
thickening of one of the great piers that supported the tower, at the
intersection of nave and transepts.  After a long period of dust and
darkness, and the monotony of always going with the same leg
foremost, came a narrow door, leading to the ringers' region, with
all their ropes hanging down.  Ethel was thankful when she had got
her youngsters past without an essay on them; she doubted if she
should have succeeded, but for Leonard's being an element of
soberness.  Other little doors ensued, leading out to the various
elevations of roof, which were at all sorts of different heights, the
chancel lower than the nave, and one transept than the other; besides
that the nave had both triforium and clerestory.  It was a sort of
labyrinth, and they wondered whether any one, except perhaps the
plumber's foreman knew his way among all the doors.  Then there was
one leading inwards to the eight bells--from whose fascinations Ethel
thought Dickie never would be taken away--and still more charming, to
the clock, which clanged a tremendous three, as they were in the act
of looking at it, causing Leonard to make a great start, and then
colour painfully.  It was hard to believe, as Daisy said, that the
old tower, that looked so short and squat below, could be so very
high when you came to go up it; but the glimpses of the country,
through the little loop-hole windows, were most inviting.  At last,
Aubrey, who was foremost, pushed up the trap-door, and emerged; but,
as Dickie followed him, exclaimed, 'Here we are; but you ladies in
crinolines will never follow!  You'll stick fast for ever, and
Leonard can't pass, so there you'll all have to stay.'

'Aunt Daisy will sail away like a balloon,' added Dickie, roguishly,
looking back at her, and holding on his cap.

But Gertrude vigorously compressed her hoop, and squeezed through,
followed by Ethel and Leonard.  There was a considerable space,
square, leaded and protected by the battlemented parapet, with a deep
moulding round, and a gutter resulting in the pipe smoked by Ethel's
likeness, the gurgoyle.  Of course the first thing Dickie and Aubrey
did was to look for the letters that commemorated the ascent of H.
M., E. M., M. M., in 1852; and it was equally needful that R. R. M.,
if nobody else, should likewise leave a record on the leads.  There
was an R. M. of 1820, that made it impossible to gainsay him.  The
view was not grand in itself, but there was a considerable charm in
looking down on the rooks in their leafless trees, cawing over their
old nests, and in seeing the roofs of the town; far away, too, the
gray Welsh hills, and between, the country lying like a map, with
rivers traced in light instead of black.  Leonard stood still, his
face turned towards the greenest of the meadows, and the river where
it dashed over the wheel of a mill.

'Have you seen it again?' asked Ethel, as she stood by him, and
watched his eye.

'No.  I am rather glad to see it first from so far off,' he answered,
'I mean to walk over some day.'

'Ethel,' called Gertrude, 'is this your gurgoyle?  His profile, as
seen from above, isn't flattering.'

'O, Daisy, don't lean over so far.'

'Quite safe;' but at that instant a gust of wind caught her hat, she
grasped at it, but only saved it from whirling away, and made it fall
short.  'There, Ethel, your image has put on my hat; and henceforth
will appear to the wondering city in a black hat and feather!'

'I'll get it,' exclaimed the ever ready Dickie; and in another moment
he had mounted the parapet and was reaching for it.  Whether it were
Gertrude's shriek, or the natural recoil away from the grasping hand,
or that his hold on the side of the adjoining pinnacle was insecure,
he lost his balance, and with a sudden cry, vanished from their eyes.

The frightful consternation of that moment none of those four could
ever bear to recall; the next, they remembered that he could only
fall as far as the roof, but it was Ethel and Leonard alone who durst
press to the parapet, and at the same moment a cry came up--

'Oh, come!  I'm holding on, but it cuts!  Oh, come!'

Ethel saw, some five-and-twenty feet below, the little boy upon the
transept roof, a smooth slope of lead, only broken by a skylight, a
bit of churchwarden's architecture still remaining.  The child had
gone crashing against the window, and now lay back clinging to its
iron frame.  Behind him was the entire height within to the church
floor, before him a rapid slope, ended by a course of stone, wide
enough indeed to walk on, but too narrow to check the impetus from
slipping down the inclination above.  Ethel's brain swam; she just
perceived that both Aubrey and Leonard had disappeared, and then had
barely power to support Gertrude, who reeled against her, giddy with
horror.  'Oh look, look, Ethel,' she cried; 'I can't.  Where is he?'

'There!  Yes, hold on, Dickie, they are coming.  Look up--not down--
hold on!'

A door opened, and out dashed Aubrey!  Alas! it was on the nave
clerestory; he might as well have been a hundred, miles off.  Another
door, and Leonard appeared, and on the right level, but with a giddy
unguarded ridge on which to pass round the angle of the tower. She
saw his head pass safely round, but, even then, the horror was not
over.  Could he steady himself sufficiently to reach the child, or
might not Dickie lose hold too soon?  It was too close below for
sight, the moulding and gurgoyle impeded her agonized view, but she
saw the child's look of joyful relief, she heard the steady voice,
'Wait, don't let go yet.  There,' and after a few more sounds, came
up a shout, 'all right!' Infinitely relieved, she had to give her
whole attention to poor Gertrude, who, overset by the accident, giddy
with the attempt to look over, horrified by the danger, confused and
distressed by the hair that came wildly flapping about her head and
face, and by the puffs of wind at her hoop, had sunk down in the
centre of the little leaden square, clinging with all her might to
the staff of the weathercock, and feeling as if the whole tower were
rocking with her, absolutely seeing the battlements dance.  How was
she ever to be safely got down the rickety ladder leading to the
crumbling stone stair?  Ethel knelt by her, twisted up the fluttering
hair, bade her shut her eyes and compose her thoughts, and then
called over the battlements to Aubrey, who, confused by the shock,
continued to emerge at wrong doors and lose himself on the roofs, and
was like one in a bad dream, nearly as much dizzied as his sister, to
whose help he came the more readily, as the way up was the only one
plain before him.

The detention would have been more dreadful to Ethel had she known
all that was passing below, and that when the little boy, at
Leonard's sign, lowered himself towards the out-reaching arms of the
young man, who was steadying himself against the wall of the tower,
it was with a look of great pain, and leaving a trail of blood behind
him.  When, at length, he stood at the angle, Leonard calmly said,
'Now go before me, round that corner, in at the door.  Hold by the
wall, I'll hold your shoulder.'  The boy implicitly obeyed, the
notion of giddiness never seemed to occur to him, and both safely
came to the little door, on the threshold of which Leonard sat down,
and lifting him on his knee, asked where he was hurt?  'My leg,' said
Dickie, 'the glass was running in all the time, and I could not move;
but it does not hurt so much now.'

Perhaps not; but a large piece of glass had broken into the slender
little calf, and Leonard steadied himself to withdraw it, as,
happily, the fragment was large enough to give a hold for his hand.
The sensible little fellow, without a word, held up the limb across
Leonard's knee, and threw an arm round his neck, to hold himself
still, just saying, 'Thank you,' when it was over.

'Did it hurt much, Dickie?'

'Not very much,' he answered; 'but how it bleeds!  Where's Aunt
Ethel?'

'On the tower.  She will come in a moment,' said Leonard, startled by
the exceeding flow of blood, and binding the gash round with his
handkerchief.  'Now, I'll carry you down.'

The boy did not speak all the weary winding way down the dark stairs;
but Leonard heard gasps of oppression, and felt the head lean on his
shoulder; moreover, a touch convinced him that the handkerchief was
soaking, nay dripping, and when he issued at length into the free air
of the church, the face was deadly white.  No one was near, and
Leonard laid him on a bench.  He was still conscious, and looked up
with languid eyes. 'Mayn't I go home?' he said, faintly; 'Aunt
Ethel!'

'Let me try to stop this bleeding first,' said Leonard.  'My dear
little man, if you will only be quiet, I think I can.'

Leonard took the handkerchief from his throat, and wound it to its
tightest just above the hurt, Dickie remonstrating for a moment with,
'That's not the place.  It is too tight.'

'It will cut off the blood from coming,' said Leonard; and in the
same understanding way, the child submitted, feebly asking, 'Shall I
bleed to death?  Mamma will be so sorry!'

'I trust--I hope not,' said Leonard; he durst utter no encouragement,
for the life-blood continued to pour forth unchecked, and the next
murmur was, 'I'm so sick.  I can't say my prayers.  Papa!  Mamma!'
Already, however, Leonard had torn down a holly bough, and twisted
off (he would have given worlds for a knife) a short stout stick,
which he thrust into one of the folds of the ligature, and pulled it
much tighter, so that his answer was, 'Thank God, Dickie, that will
do! the bleeding has stopped.  You must not mind if it hurts for a
little while.'

An ejaculation of 'Poor little dear,' here made him aware of the
presence of the sexton's wife; but in reply to her offer to carry him
in to Mrs. Cheviot's, Dickie faintly answered, 'Please let me go
home;' and Leonard, 'Yes, I will take him home.  Tell Miss May it is
a cut from the glass, I am taking him to have it dressed, and will
bring him home.  Now, my dear little patient fellow, can you put your
arms round my neck?'

Sensible, according to both meanings of the word, Dickie clasped his
friend's neck, and laid his head on his shoulder, not speaking again
till he found Leonard was not turning towards the High Street, when
he said, 'That is not the way home.'

'No, Dickie, but we must get your leg bound up directly, and the
hospital is the only place where we can be sure of finding any one to
do it.  I will take you home directly afterwards.'

'Thank you,' said the courteous little gentleman; and in a few
minutes more Leonard had rung the bell, and begged the house surgeon
would come at once to Dr. May's grandson.  A few drops of stimulant
much revived Dickie, and he showed perfect trust and composure, only
holding Leonard's hands, and now and then begging to know what they
were doing, while he was turned over on his face for the dressing of
the wound, bearing all without a sound, except an occasional sobbing
gasp, accompanied by a squeeze of Leonard's finger.  Just as this
business had been completed, the surgeon exclaimed, 'There's Dr.
May's step,' and Dickie at once sat up, as his grandfather hurried
in, nearly as pale as the boy himself.  'O, grandpapa, never mind, it
is almost well now; and has Aunt Daisy got her hat?'

'What is it, my dear? what have you been doing?' said the Doctor,
looking in amazement from the boy to Leonard, who was covered with
blood.  'They told me you had fallen off the Minster tower!'

'Yes I did,' said Dickie; 'I reached after Aunt Daisy's hat, but I
fell on the roof, and I was sliding, sliding down to the wall, but
there was a window, and the glass broke and cut me, but I got my feet
against the bottom of it, and held on by the iron bar, till Leonard
came and took me down;' and he lay back on the pillow, quiet and
exhausted, but bright-eyed and attentive as ever, listening to
Leonard's equally brief version of the adventure.

'Didn't he save my life, grandpapa?' said the boy, at the close.

'Twice over, you may say,' added the surgeon, and his words as to the
nature of the injury manifested that all had depended on the
immediate stoppage of the haemorrhage.  With so young a child, delay
from indecision or want of resource would probably have been fatal.

'There would have been no doing anything, if this little man had not
been so good and sensible,' said Leonard, leaning over him.

'And I did not cry.  You will tell papa I did not cry,' said Dickie,
eagerly, but only half gratified by such girlish treatment as that
agitated kiss of his grandfather, after being a little bit of a hero;
but then Dickie's wondering eyes really beheld such another kiss
bestowed over his head upon Leonard, and quite thought there were
tears on grandpapa's cheeks.  Perhaps old gentlemen could do what was
childish in little boys.

Dickie was to be transported home.  He wished to be carried by
Leonard, but the brougham was at the door, and he had to content
himself with being laid on the seat, with his friend to watch over
him, the Doctor pointing out that Leonard was a savage spectacle for
the eyes of Stoneborough, and hurrying home by the short cut.  Ethel
met him in extreme alarm.  Gertrude's half-restored senses had been
totally scattered by the sight of the crimson traces on the spot of
Leonard's operations, and she had been left to Mary's care; while
Ethel and Aubrey had hastened home, and not finding any one there,
the latter had dashed off to Bankside, whilst Ethel waited, arranging
the little fellow's bed, and trying to trust to Leonard's message,
and not let her mind go back to that fearful day of like waiting,
sixteen years ago, nor on to what she might have to write to Norman
and Meta of the charge they had sent to her.  Her father's cheerful
face at first was a pang, and then came the rebound of gladness at
the words.  'He is coming.  No fear for him, gallant little man--
thanks for God's mercy, and to that noble fellow, Leonard.'

At the same moment Aubrey burst in--'No one at Wright's--won't be in
no one knows how long!  What is to become of us?'  And he sank down
on a chair.

'Ay, what would become of any of us, if no one had a better pate than
yours, sir?' said Dr. May.  'You have one single perfection, and you
had better make the most of it--that of knowing how to choose your
friends.  There's the carriage.'

After a moment's delay, the cushion was lifted out with the little
wounded cavalier, still like a picture; for, true to his humming-bird
nature, a few scarcely-conscious movements of his hands had done away
with looks of disarray--the rich glossy curls were scarcely
disordered, and no stains of blood had adhered to the upper part of
his small person, whereas Leonard was a ghastly spectacle from head
to foot.

'So, Master Dicky-bird,' said Dr. May, as they rested him a moment on
the hall-table, 'give me that claw of yours.  Yes, you'll do very
well, only you must go to bed now; and, mind, whatever you did when
you were in Fairy-land, we don't fly here in Stoneborough--and it
does not answer.'

'I am not to go to bed for being naughty, am I?' said Dickie, his
brave white lip for the first time quivering; 'indeed, I did not know
it was wrong.'

The poor little man's spirits were so exhausted, that the reassurance
on this head absolutely brought the much-dreaded tears into his eyes;
and he could only be carried up gently to his bed, and left to be
undressed by his aunt, so great an aggravation to the troubles of
this small fragment of independence, that it had almost overset his
courtesy and self-command.  There was no contenting him till he had
had all traces of the disaster washed from face and hands, and the
other foot; and then, over his tea, though his little clear chirrup
was weak, he must needs give a lucid description of Leonard's
bandaging, in the midst of which came a knock at the door, and a
gasping voice--'I'll be quite quiet--indeed I will!  Only just let me
come in and kiss him, and see that he is safe.'

'O, Auntie Daisy, have you got your hat?'

Wan, tear-stained, dishevelled, Gertrude bit her lip to save an
outburst, gave the stipulated kiss, and retreated to Mary, who stood
in the doorway like a dragon.

'Auntie Daisy has been crying,' said Dickie, turning his eyes back to
Ethel.  'Please tell her I shall be well very soon, and then I'll go
up again and try to get her hat, if I may have a hook and line--I'll
tell you how.'

'My dear Dickie, you had better lie down, and settle it as you go to
sleep,' said Ethel, her flesh creeping at the notion of his going up
again.

'But if I go to sleep now, I shall not know when to say my prayers.'

'Had you not better do so now, Dickie?'

Next came the child's scruple about not kneeling; but at last he was
satisfied, if Aunt Ethel would give him his little book out of the
drawer--that little delicately-illuminated book with the pointed
writing and the twisted cipher, Meta's hand in every touch.
Presently he looked up, and said: 'Aunt Ethel, isn't there a verse
somewhere about giving the angels charge?  I want you to find it for
me, for I think they helped me to hold on, and helped Leonard upon
the narrow place.  You know they are sure to be flying about the
church.'

Ethel read the ninety-first Psalm to him.  He listened all through,
and thanked her; but in a few minutes more he was fast asleep.  As
she left the room she met Leonard coming down and held out her hands
to him with a mute intensity of thanks, telling him, in a low voice,
what Dickie had said of the angels' care.

'I am sure it was true,' said Leonard.  'What else could have saved
the brave child from dizziness?'

Down-stairs Leonard's reception from Dr. May was, 'Pretty well for a
nervous man!'

'Anybody can do what comes to hand.'

'I beg your pardon.  Some bodies lose their wits, like your friend
Aubrey, who tells me, if he had stood still, he would have fainted
away.  As long as nerves can do what comes to hand, they need not be
blamed, even if they play troublesome tricks at other times, as I
suspect they are doing now.'

'Yes; my face is aching a little.'

'Not to say a great deal,' said the Doctor.  'Well, I am not going to
pity you; for I think you can feel to-day that most of us would be
glad to be in your place!'

'I am very glad,' said Leonard.

'You remember that child's parents?  No, you have grown so old, that
I am always forgetting what a boy you ought to be; but if you had
ever seen the tenderness of his father, and that sunbeam of a Meta,
you would know all the more how we bless you for what you have spared
them.  Leonard, if anything had been needed to do so, you have won to
yourself such a brother in Norman as you have in Aubrey!'

Meantime Ethel was soothing Gertrude, to whom the shock had been in
proportion to the triumphal heights of her careless gaiety.  Charles
Cheviot had come in while his wife was restoring her; and he had
plainly said what no one else would have intimated to the spoilt
darling--that the whole accident had been owing to her recklessness,
and that he had always expected some fatal consequences to give her a
lesson!

Gertrude had been fairly cowed by such unwonted treatment; and when
he would only take her home on condition of composure and self-
command, her trembling limbs obliged her to accept his arm, and he
subdued her into meek silence, and repression of all agitation, till
she was safe in her room, when she took a little bit of revenge upon
Mary by crying her heart out, and declaring it was very cruel of
Charles, when she did not mean it.

And Mary, on her side, varied between assurances that Charles did not
mean it, and that he was quite right--the sister now predominating in
her, and now the wife.

'Mean what?' said Ethel, sitting down among them before they were
aware.

'That--that it was all my fault!' burst out Gertrude.  'If it was, I
don't see what concern it is of his!'

'But, Daisy dear, he is your brother!'

'I've got plenty of brothers of my own!  I don't count those people-
in-law--'

'She's past reasoning with, Mary,' said Ethel.  'Leave her to me; she
will come to her senses by and by!'

'But indeed, Ethel, you won't be hard on her?  I am sure dear Charles
never thought what he said would have been taken in this way.'

'Why did he say it then?' cried Gertrude, firing up.

'My dear Mary, do please go down, before we get into the pitiable
last-word condition!'

That condition was reached already; but in Ethel's own bed-room
Mary's implicit obedience revived, and away she went, carrying off
with her most of what was naughtiness in Gertrude.

'Ethel--Ethel dear!' cried she at once, 'I know you are coming down
on me.  I deserve it all, only Charles had no business to say it.
And wasn't it very cruel and unkind when he saw the state I was in?'

'I suppose Charles thought it was the only chance of giving a lesson,
and therefore true kindness.  Come, Daisy, is this terrible fit of
pride a proper return for such a mercy as we have had to-day?'

'If I didn't say so to myself a dozen times on the way home!--only
Mary came and made me so intolerably angry, by expecting me to take
it as if it had come from you or papa.'

'Ah, Daisy, that is the evil!  If I had done my duty by you all, this
would not have been!'

'Now, Ethel, when you want to be worse, and more cutting than
anything, you go and tell me my faults are yours!  For pity's sake,
don't come to that!'

'But I must, Daisy, for it is true.  Oh, if you had only been a
naughty little girl!'

'What--and had it out then?' said Daisy, who was lying across the
bed, and put her golden head caressingly on Ethel's knee.  'If I had
plagued you then, you would have broken me in out of self-defence.'

'Something like it,' said Ethel.  'But you know, Daisy, the little
last treasure that mamma left did always seem something we could not
make enough of, and it didn't make you fractious or tiresome--at
least not to us--till we thought you could not be spoilt.  And then I
didn't see the little faults so soon as I ought; and I'm only an
elder sister, after all, without any authority.'

'No, you're not to say that, Ethel, I mind your authority, and always
will.  You are never a bother.'

'Ah, that's it, Daisy!  If I had only been a bother, you might never
have got ahead of yourself.'

'Then you really think, like Charles Cheviot, that it was my doing,
Ethel?'

'What do you think yourself?'

Great tears gathered in the corners of the blue eyes.  Was it weak in
Ethel not to bear the sight?

'My poor Daisy,' she said, 'yours is not all the burden!  I ought not
to have taken up such a giddy company, or else I should have kept the
boy under my hand.  But he is so discreet and independent, that it is
more like having a gentleman staying in the house, than a child under
one's charge; and one forgets how little he is; and I was as much off
my balance with spirits as you.  It was the flightiness of us all;
and we have only to be thankful, and to be sobered for another time.
I am afraid the pride about being reproved is really the worse
fault.'

'And what do you want me to do?--to go and tell papa all about it?
I mean to do that, of course; it is the only way to get comforted.'

'Of course it is; but--'

'You horrid creature, Ethel!  I'll never say you aren't a bother
again.  You really do want me to go and tell Charles Cheviot that he
was quite right, and Mary that I'm ready to be trampled on by all my
brothers-in-law in a row!  Well, there won't be any more.  You'll
never give me one--that's one comfort!' said Gertrude, wriggling
herself up, and flinging an arm round Ethel's neck.  'As long as you
don't do that, I'll do anything for you.'

'Not for me.'

'Well, you know that, you old thing! only you might take it as a
personal compliment.  I really will do it; for, of course, one could
not keep one's Christmas otherwise!'  It was rather too business-
like; but elders are often surprised to find what was a hard
achievement in their time a matter of course to their pupils--almost
lightly passed over.

Dickie slept till morning, when he was found very pale, but lively
and good-humoured as ever.  Mr. Wright, coming up to see him, found
the hurt going on well, and told Ethel, that if she could keep him in
bed and undisturbed for the day, it would be better and safer; but
that if he became restless and fretful, there would be no great risk
in taking him to a sofa.  Restless and fretful!  Mr. Wright little
knew the discretion, or the happy power of accommodation to
circumstances, that had descended to Meta's firstborn.

He was quite resigned as soon as the explanation had been made--
perhaps, indeed, there was an instinctive sense, that to be dressed
and moved would be fatiguing; but he had plenty of smiles and
animation for his visitors, and, when propped up in bed, was full of
devices for occupation.  Moreover he acquired a slave; he made a
regular appropriation of Leonard, whom he quickly perceived to be the
most likely person to assist in his great design of constructing a
model of the clock in the Minster tower, for the edification of his
little brother Harry.  Leonard worked away at the table by the bed-
side with interest nearly equal to the child's; and when wire and
cardboard were wanting, he put aside all his dislike to facing the
Stoneborough streets and tradesmen in open day, and, at Dickie's
request, sallied forth in quest of the materials.  And when the
bookseller made inquiries after the boy, Leonard, in the fulness of
his heart, replied freely and in detail--nay, he was so happy in the
little man's well-doing, that he was by no means disconcerted even by
a full encounter of Mrs. Harvey Anderson in the street, but answered
all her inquiries, in entire oblivion of all but the general
rejoicing in little Dickie's wonderful escape.

'Well,' said Aubrey to his sisters, after a visit to his nephew's
room, 'Dickie has the best right to him, certainly, to-day.  It is an
absolute appropriation!  They were talking away with all their might
when I came up, but came to a stop when I went in, and Master Dick
sent me to the right-about.'

The truth was, that Dickie, who, with eyes and ears all alive, had
gathered up some fragments of Leonard's history, had taken this
opportunity of catechizing him upon it in a manner that it was
impossible to elude, and which the child's pretty tact carried off,
as it did many things which would not have been tolerated if done
rudely and abruptly.  Step by step, in the way of question and
remark, he led Leonard to tell him all that had happened; and when
once fairly embarked in the reminiscence, there was in it a kind of
peace and pleasure.  The fresh, loving, wondering sympathy of the
little boy was unspeakably comforting; and besides, the bringing the
facts in their simple form to the grasp of the childish mind,
restored their proportion, which their terrible consequences had a
good deal disturbed.  They seemed to pass from the present to the
historical, and to assume the balance that they took in the child's
mind, coming newly upon them.  It was like bathing in a clear limpid
stream, that washed away the remains of morbid oppression.

'I wish mamma was here,' said the little friend, at last.

'Do you want her?  Are you missing her, my dear?'

'I miss her always,' said Dickie.  'But it was not that--only mamma
always makes everybody so happy; and she would be so fond of you,
because you have had so much trouble.'

'But, Dickie, don't you think I am happy to be with your grandfather
and aunt, and hoping to see my own sisters very soon--your aunt, who
taught me what bore me through it all?'

'Aunt Ethel?' cried Dickie, considering.  'I like Aunt Ethel very
much; but then she is not like mamma!'

There could be no doubt that Leonard was much better and happier
after this adventure.  Reluctantly, Dickie let him go back to
Cocksmoor, where his services in church-decking and in singing had
been too much depended on to be dispensed with; but he was to come
back with Richard for the family assembly on Christmas evening.

Moreover, Gertrude, who was quite herself again, having made her
peace with the Cheviots, and endured the reception of her apologies,
seized on him to lay plots for a Christmas-tree, for the delectation
of Dickie on his sofa, and likewise of Margaret Rivers, and of the
elite of the Cocksmoor schools.  He gave in to it heartily, and on
the appointed day worked with great spirit at the arrangements in the
dining-room, where Gertrude, favoured by the captive state of the
little boy, conducted her preparations, relegating the family meals
to the schoolroom.

This tree was made the occasion for furnishing Leonard with all the
little appliances of personal property that had been swept away from
him; and, after all, he was the most delighted of the party.  The
small Charlie Cheviot had to be carried off shrieking; Margaret
Rivers was critical; even Cocksmoor was experienced in Christmas-
trees; and Dickie, when placed in the best situation, and asked if
such trees grew in New Zealand, made answer that he helped mamma to
make one every year for the Maori children.  It was very kind in Aunt
Daisy, he added, with unfailing courtesy; but he was too zealous for
his colony to be dazzled--too utilitarian to be much gratified by any
of his gifts, excepting a knife of perilous excellence, which Aubrey,
in contempt of Stoneborough productions, had sacrificed from his own
pocket at the last moment.

Leonard and Dickie together were in a state of great delight at the
little packets handed to the former; studs, purse, pencil-case,
writing materials; from Hector Ernescliffe, a watch, with the
entreaty that his gifts might not be regarded as unlucky; from Ethel,
a photographic book, with the cartes of his own family, whose old
negatives had been hunted up for the purpose; also a recent one of
Dr. May with his grandson on his knee, the duplicate of which was
gone to New Zealand, with the Doctor's inscription, 'The modern
Cyropaedia, Astyages confounded.'  There was Richard, very good,
young and pretty; there was Ethel, exactly like the Doctor, 'only
more so;' there was Gertrude, like nobody, not even herself, and her
brothers much in the same predicament, there was the latest of Mr.
Rivers's many likenesses, with the cockatoo on his wrist, and there
was the least truculent and witchlike of the numerous attempts on
Flora; there was Mrs. Cheviot, broad-faced and smiling over her son,
and Mr. and Mrs. Ernescliffe, pinioning the limbs of their offspring,
as in preparation for a family holocaust; there was Dickie's mamma,
unspoilable in her loveliness even by photography, and his papa grown
very bald and archidiaconal; there was Ethel's great achievement of
influence, Dr. Spencer, beautiful in his white hair; there were the
vicar and the late and present head-masters.  The pleasure excited by
all these gifts far exceeded the anticipations of their donors, it
seemed as if they had fallen on the very moment when they would
convey a sense of home, welcome, and restoration.  He did not say
much, but looked up with liquid lustrous eyes, and earnest 'thank
you's,' and caressingly handled and examined the treasures over and
over again, as they lay round him on Dickie's couch.  'I suppose,'
said the child to him, 'it is like Job, when all his friends came to
see him, and every one gave him a piece of money.'

'He could hardly have enjoyed it more,' murmured Leonard, feeling the
restful capacity of happiness in the new possession of the child's
ardent love, and of the kind looks of all around, above all, of the
one presence that still gave him his chief sense of sunshine.  The
boyish and romantic touch of passion had, as Ethel had long seen,
been burnt and seared away, and yet there was something left,
something that, as on this evening she felt, made his voice softer,
his eye more deferential, to her than to any one else.  Perhaps she
had once been his guiding star; and if in the wild tempests of the
night he had learnt instead to direct his course by the "Brightest
and best of the sons of the morning," still the star would be prized
and distinguished, as the first and most honoured among inferior
constellations.




CHAPTER XXIX



Till now the dark was worn, and overhead
The lights of sunset and of sunrise mixed.--TENNYSON


At New York, Tom wrote a short letter to announce his safe arrival,
and then pushed on by railway into Indiana.  Winter had completely
set in; and when he at length arrived at Winiamac, he found that a
sleigh was a far readier mode of conveyance to Massissauga than the
wagons used in summer.  His drive, through the white cathedral-like
arcades of forest, hung with transparent icicles, and with the deep
blue sky above, becoming orange towards the west, was enjoyable; and
even Massissauga itself, when its skeleton trees were like their
neighbours, embellished by the pure snowy covering, looked less
forlorn than when their death contrasted with the exuberant life
around.  He stopped at the hotel, left his baggage there, and after
undergoing a catechism on his personal affairs, was directed to Mr.
Muller's house, and made his way up its hard-trodden path of snow,
towards the green door, at which he knocked two or three times before
it was opened by a woman, whose hair and freckled skin were tinted
nowhere but in Ireland.

He made a step forward out of the cutting blast into the narrow
entry, and began to ask, 'Is Miss Ward here?  I mean, can I see Miss
Warden?' when, as if at the sound of his voice, there rang from
within the door close by a shriek--one of the hoarse hysterical cries
he had heard upon the day of the inquest.  Without a moment's
hesitation, he pushed open the door, and beheld a young lady in
speechless terror hanging over the stiffened figure on the couch--the
eyes wide open, the limbs straight and rigid.  He sprang forward, and
lifted her into a more favourable posture, hastily asking for simple
remedies likely to be at hand, and producing a certain amount of
revival for a few moments, though the stiffness was not passing--nor
was there evidence of consciousness.

'Are you Leonard?' said Cora Muller, under her breath, in this brief
interval, gazing into his face with frightened puzzled eyes.

'No; but I am come to tell her that he is free!'  But the words were
cut short by another terrible access, of that most distressing kind
that stimulates convulsion; and again the terrified women
instinctively rendered obedience to the stranger in the measures he
rapidly took, and his words, 'hysteria--a form of hysteria,' were
forced from him by the necessity of lessening Cora's intense alarm,
so as to enable her to be effective.  'We must send for Dr. Laidlaw,'
she began in the first breathing moment, and again he looked up and
said, 'I am a physician!'

'Mr. Tom?' she asked with the faintest shadow of a smile; he bent his
head, and that was their introduction, broken again by another
frightful attack; and when quiescence, if not consciousness, was
regained, Tom knelt by the sofa, gazing with a sense of heart-rending
despair at the wasted features and thin hands, the waxen whiteness of
the cheek, and the tokens in which he clearly read long and consuming
illness as well as the overthrow of the sudden shock.

'What is this?' he asked, looking up to Cora's beautiful anxious
face.

'Oh, she has been very sick, very sick,' she answered; 'it was an
attack of pleurisy; but she is getting better at last, though she
will not think so, and this news will make all well.  Does she hear?
Say it again!'

Tom shook his head, afraid of the sound of the name as yet, and
scarcely durst even utter the word 'Ella' above his breath.

'She is gone out with Cousin Deborah to an apple bee,' was the
reassuring answer.  'She wanted change, poor child!  Is she getting
better?'

Averil was roused by a cough, the sound which tore Tom's heart by its
import, but he drew back out of her sight, and let Cora raise her,
and give her drink, in a soothing tender manner, that was evident
restoration.  'Cora dear, is it you?' she said, faintly; 'didn't I
hear some one else's voice?  Didn't they say--?' and the shiver that
crept over her was almost a return of the hysteric fit.

'We said he was free,' said Cora, holding her in her arms.

'Free--yes, I know what that means--free among the dead,' said
Averil, calmly, smoothing Cora's hair, and looking in her face.
'Don't be afraid to let me hear.  I shall be there with him and Minna
soon.  Didn't somebody come to tell me?  Please let him in, I'll be
quiet now.'

And as she made gestures of arranging her hair and dress, Tom
guardedly presented himself, saying in a voice that trembled with his
endeavour to render it calm, 'Did you think I should have come if I
had nothing better to tell you?' and as she put out her hand in
greeting, he took it in both his own, and met her eyes looking at him
wide open, in the first dawning of the hope of an impossible
gladness.  'Yes,' he said, 'the truth is come out--he is cleared--he
is at home--at Stoneborongh!'

The hot fingers closed convulsively on his own, then she raised
herself, pressed her hands together, and gasped and struggled
fearfully for breath.  The joy and effort for self-command were more
than the enfeebled frame could support, and there was a terrible and
prolonged renewal of those agonizing paroxysms, driving away every
thought from the other two except of the immediate needs.  At last,
when the violence of the attack had subsided, and left what was
either fainting or stupor, they judged it best to carry her to her
bed, and trust that, reviving without the associations of the other
room, the agitation would be less likely to return, and that she
might sleep under the influence of an anodyne.  Poor Tom! it was not
the reception he had figured to himself, and after he had laid her
down, and left her to Cora and to Katty to be undressed, he returned
to the parlour, and stood over the sinking wood-fire in dejection and
dreariness of heart--wrung by the sufferings he had witnessed, with
the bitter words (too late) echoing in his brain, and with the still
more cruel thought--had it been his father or one of his brothers--
any one to whose kindness she could trust, the shock had not been so
great, and there would have been more sense of soothing and comfort!
And then he tried to collect his impressions of her condition, and
judge what would serve for her relief, but all his senses seemed to
be scattered; dismay, compassion, and sympathy, had driven away all
power of forming a conclusion--he was no longer the doctor--he was
only the anxious listener for the faintest sound from the room above,
but none reached him save the creaking of the floor under Katty's
heavy tread.

The gay tinkle of sleigh-bells was the next noise he heard, and
presently the door was opened, and two muffled hooded figures looked
into the room, now only lighted by the red embers of the fire.

'Where's Cora? where's Ave?' said the bright tone of the lesser.  'It
is all dark!' and she was raising her voice to call, when Tom
instinctively uttered a 'Hush,' and moved forward; 'hush, Ella, your
sister has been ill.'

The little muffled figure started at the first sound of his voice,
but as he stepped nearer recoiled for a second, then with a low cry,
almost a sob of recognition, exclaimed, 'Mr. Tom!  Oh, Mr. Tom!  I
knew you would come!  Cousin Deborah, it's Mr. Tom!' and she flew
into his arms, and clung with an ecstasy of joy, unknowing the why or
how, but with a sense that light had shone, and that her troubles
were over.  She asked no questions, she only leant against him with,
'Mr. Tom!  Mr. Tom!' under her breath.

'But what is it, stranger?  Do tell!  Where are the girls?  What's
this about Avy's being sick?  Do you know the stranger, Ella?'

'It's Mr. Tom,' she cried, holding his arm round her neck, looking up
in a rapturous restfulness.

'I brought Miss Ward-en some good news that I fear has been too much
for her,' said he; 'I am--only waiting to--hear how she is.'

By way of answer, Deborah opened another door which threw more light
on the scene from the cooking stove in the kitchen, and at the same
moment Cora with a candle came down the stairs.

'O, Dr. May,' she said, 'you have been too long left alone in the
dark.  I think she is asleep now.  You will stay.  We will have tea
directly.'

Tom faltered something about the hotel, and began to look at Cousin
Deborah, and to consider the proprieties of life; but Cousin Deborah,
Cora, and Ella began declaring with one voice that he must remain for
the evening meal, and a bustle of cheerful preparation commenced,
while Ella still hung on his hand.

'But, Ella, you've never asked my good news.'

'Oh dear!  I was too glad!  Are we going home then?'

'Yes, I trust so, I hope so, my dear; for Leonard's innocence has
come to light, and he is free.'

'Then Henry won't mind--and we may be called by our proper name
again--and Ave will be well,' cried the child, as the ideas came more
fully on her comprehension.  'O, Cora!  O, Cousin Deborah, do you
hear?  Does Ave know?  May I run up and tell Ave?'

This of course was checked, but next Ella impetuously tore off her
wraps for the convenience of spinning up and down wildly about the
kitchen and parlour.  Leonard himself did not seem to have great part
in her joy; Henry's policy had really nearly rooted out the thought
of him personally, and there was a veil of confusion over the painful
period of his trial, which at the time she had only partially
comprehended.  But she did understand that his liberation would be
the term of exile; and though his name was to her connected with a
mysterious shudder that made her shrink from uttering or hearing
details, she had a security that Mr. Tom would set all right, and she
loved him so heartily, that his presence was sunshine enough for her.

A little discomfited at the trouble he was causing, Tom was obliged
to wait while not only Cousin Deborah, but Cora busied herself in the
kitchen, and Ella in her restless joy came backwards and forwards to
report their preparations, and at times to tarry a short space by his
side, and tell of the recent troubles.  Ave had been very ill, she
said, very ill indeed about a month ago, and Henry had come home to
see her, but had been obliged to go away to the seige of Charleston
when she was better.  They had all been ill ever since they came
there, but now Mr. Tom was come, should not they all go home to dear
Stoneborough, away from this miserable place?  If they could only
take Cora with them!

It was still a childish tongue; but Ella had outgrown all her plump
roundness, and was so tall and pale that Tom would hardly have known
her.  Her welcome was relief and comfort, and she almost inspired her
own belief that now all would be well.  His English ideas were rather
set at rest by finding that Mrs. Deborah was to preside at the tea-
table, and that he was not to be almost tete-a-tete with Miss Muller.
Deborah having concluded her hospitable cares, catechized him to her
full content, and satisfied herself on the mystery of the Wardens'
life.

And now what brought himself out?  She guessed he could not find an
opening in the old country.  Tom smiled, explained his opening at
home, and mentioned his charge of his late friend's book.

'So you are come out about the book, and just come a few hundred
miles out of the way to bring this bit of news, that you could have
telegraphed,' said the Yankee dame, looking at him with her keen
eyes.  'Well, if you were coming, it was a pity you were not sooner.
She has pined away ever since she came here; and to such a worn-down
condition as hers, poor child, I doubt joy's kinder more upsetting
than trouble, when one is used to it.  There; I'll fix the things,
and go up and sit with Avy.  She'll be less likely to work herself
into a flight again if she sees me than one of you.'

So Tom--less embarrassed now--found himself sitting by the fire, with
Ella roasting her favourite nuts for him, and Miss Muller opposite.
He was taken by surprise by her beautiful face, elegant figure, and
lady-like manner, and far more by her evidently earnest affection for
Averil.

She told him that ever since the fatal turn of little Minna's
illness, Averil had been subject to distressing attacks of gasping
and rigidity, often passing into faintness; and though at the moment
of emotion she often showed composure and self-command, yet that
nature always thus revenged herself.  Suspense--letters from home or
from Henry--even verses, or times connected with the past, would
almost certainly bring on the affection; and the heat of the summer
had relaxed her frame, so as to render it even more unable to resist.
There had been hope in the bracing of winter, but the first frosts
had brought a chill, and a terrible attack of pleurisy, so dangerous
that her brother had been summoned; she had struggled through,
however, and recovered to a certain point, but there had stopped
short, often suffering pain in the side, and never without panting
breath and recurring cough.  This had been a slightly better day, and
she had been lying on the sofa, counting the days to Leonard's next
letter, when the well-known voice fell on her ears, and the one
strong effort to control herself had resulted in the frightful
spasms, which had been worse than any Cora had yet witnessed.

'But she will get well, and we shall go home,' said Ella, looking up
wistfully into Tom's mournful face.

'And I shall lose you,' said Cora; 'but indeed I have long seen it
was the only thing.  If I had only known, she never should have come
here.'

'No, indeed, I feel that you would have led her to nothing that was
not for her good and comfort.'

'Ah! but I did not know,' said Cora; 'I had not been here--and I only
thought of my own pleasure in having her.  But if there is any way of
freeing her from this unfortunate speculation without a dead loss, I
will make father tell me.'

This--from Cora's pretty mouth--though only honest and prudent,
rather jarred upon Tom in the midst of his present fears; and he
began to prepare for his departure to the inn, after having sent up
Ella to ask for her sister, and hearing that she still slept soundly
under the influence of the opiate.

When Averil awoke it was already morning, and Cora was standing by
her bed, with her eyes smiling with congratulation, like veronicas on
a sunny day.

'Cora, is it true?' she said, looking up.

Cora bent down and kissed her, and whispered, 'I wish you joy, my
dear.'

'Then it is,' she said; 'it is not all a dream?'

'No dream, dearest.'

'Who said it?' she asked.  'O, Cora, that could not be true!' and the
colour rose in her cheek.

'That! yes, Averil, if you mean that we had a visitor last evening.
I took him for Leonard, do you know!  Only I thought his eyes and
hair did not quite answer the description.'

'He is a very gentleman-like person.  Did you not think so?' said
Averil.

'Ah! Ave, I've heard a great deal.  Don't you think you had better
tell me some more?'

'No, no!' exclaimed Averil; 'you are not to think of folly,' as
coughing cut her short.

'I'll not think of any more than I can help, except what you tell
me.'

'Never think at all, Cora.  Oh! what has brought him here?  I don't
know how I can dare to see him again; and yet he is not gone, is he?'

'Oh no, he is only at the inn.  He is coming back again.'

'I must be up.  Let me get up,' said Averil, raising herself, but
pausing from weakness and breathlessness.

And when they had forced some food upon her, she carried out her
resolution, though twice absolutely fainting in the course of
dressing; and at length crept softly, leaning on Cora's arm, into the
parlour.  Though Tom was waiting there, he neither spoke nor came
forward till she was safely placed upon the sofa, and then gathering
breath, she sought him with her eager eyes, shining, large, lustrous,
and wistful, as they looked out of the white thin face, where the
once glowing colour had dwindled to two burning carnation spots.  It
was so piteous a change that as he took her hand he was silent, from
sheer inability to speak calmly.

'You have come to tell me,' she said.  'I am afraid I could not thank
you last night.'  How different that soft pleading languid voice from
the old half defiant tone!

'I did not know you had been so unwell,' he forced himself to say,
'or I would not have come so suddenly.'

'I am grown so silly' she said, trying to smile.  'I hardly even
understood last night;' and the voice died away in the intense desire
to hear.

'I--I was coming on business, and I thought you would not turn from
the good tidings, though I was the bearer,' he said, in a broken,
agitated, apologetic way.

'Only let me hear it again,' she said.  'Did you say he was free?'

'Yes, free as you are, or I.  At home.  My father was gone to fetch
him.'

She put her hands over her face, and looked up with the sweetest
smile he had ever seen, and whispered, 'Now I can sing my Nunc
dimittis.'

He could not at once speak; and before he had done more than make one
deprecatory gesture, she asked, 'You have seen him?'

'Not since this--not since September.'

'I know.  You have been very good; and he is at home--ah! not home--
but Dr. May's.  Was he well?  Was he very glad?'

'I have not seen him; I have not heard; you will hear soon.  I came
at once with the tidings.'

'Thank you;' and she clasped her hands together.  'Have you seen
Henry? does he know?'

'Could I?  Had not you the first right?'

'Leonard!  Oh, dear Leonard!'  She lay back for a few moments,
panting under the gust of exceeding joy; while he was silent, and
tried not to seem to observe her with his anxious eyes.  Then she
recovered a little and said, 'The truth come out!  Did you say so?
What was the truth?'

'He paused a moment, afraid of the shock, and remembering that the
suspicion had been all unknown to her.  She recalled probabilities,
and said,

'Was it from a confession?  Is it known who--who was the real unhappy
person?'

'Yes.  Had you no suspicion?'

'No--none,' said Averil, shuddering, 'unless it was some robber.  Who
was it?'

'You had never thought of the other nephew?'

'You don't mean Samuel Axworthy!  Oh! no.  Why the last thing Leonard
bade me, was always to pray for him.'

'Ah!' said Tom, with bent head, and colouring cheeks; 'but who are
those for whom such as Leonard would feel bound to pray?'

There was a moment's silence, and then she said, 'His enemy!  Is that
what you mean?  But then he would have known it was he.'

'He was entirely convinced that so it must have been, but there was
no proof, and an unsupported accusation would only have made his own
case worse.'

'And has he confessed? has he been touched and cleared Leonard at
last?'

'No; he had no space granted him.  It was the receipt in your
brother's writing that was found upon him.'

'The receipt?  Yes, Leonard always said the receipt would clear him!
But oh, how dreadful!  He must have had it all the time.  How could
he be so cruel!  Oh!  I never felt before that such wickedness could
be;' and she lay, looking appalled and overpowered.

'Think of your brother knowing it all, and bidding--and giving you
that injunction--' said Tom, feeling the necessity of overcoming evil
with good.

'Oh! if I had known it, I could not--I could not have been like
Leonard!  And where--what has become of him?' she asked,
breathlessly.  'You speak as if he was dead.'

'Yes.  He was killed in a fray at a gaming-house!'

There was a long silence, first of awe, then of thankfulness plainly
beaming in her upraised eyes and transparent countenance, which Tom
watched, filled with sensations, mournful but not wholly wretched.
Shattered as she was, sinking away from her new-found happiness, it
was a precious privilege to be holding to her the longed--for draught
of joy.

'Tell me about it, please,' she presently said.  'Where--how did the
receipt come to light?  Were the police told to watch for it?  I want
to know whom I have to thank.'

His heart beat high, but there was a spirit within him that could not
brook any attempt to recall the promise he had pursued her with, the
promise that he would not rest till he had proved her brother's
innocence.  He dreaded her even guessing any allusion to it, or
fancying he had brought the proffered price in his hand; and when he
began with, 'Can you bear to hear of the most shocking scene I ever
witnessed?' he gave no hint of his true motive in residing at Paris,
of the clue that Bilson's draft had given him in thither pursuing
Axworthy, nor of his severe struggle in relinquishing the quest.  He
threw over all the completest accidental air, and scarcely made it
evident that it was he who had recognized the writing, and all that
turned on it.  Averil listened to the narration, was silent for some
space, then having gone over it in her own mind, looked up and said--

'Then all this came of your being at that hospital;' and a burning
blush spread over the pale cheek, and made Tom shrink, start, and
feel guilty of having touched the chord of obligation, connected with
that obtrusive pledge of his.  Above all, however, to repress emotion
was his prime object; and he calmly answered, 'It was a good
Providence that brought any one there who knew the circumstances.'

She was silent; and he was about to rise and relieve her from the
sense of his presuming on her gratitude, when a cough, accompanied
with a pressure of her hand on her side, betrayed an access of
suffering, that drew him on to his other purpose of endeavouring to
learn her condition, and to do what he could for her relief.  His
manner, curiously like his father's, and all the home associations
connected with it, easily drew from her what he wanted to ascertain,
and she perfectly understood its purport, and was calm and even
bright.

'I was glad to be better when Henry went away,' she said; 'he had so
much to do, and we thought I was getting well then.  You must not
frighten him and hurry him here, if you please,' she said, earnestly,
'for he must not be wasting his time here, and you think it will last
a month or two, don't you?'

'I want to persuade Henry to bring you all home, and enter into
partnership with Mr. Wright,' said Tom.  'The voyage would--might--it
would be the best thing for you.'

'Could I ever be well enough again?  Oh, don't tell me to think about
it!  The one thing I asked for before I die has been given me, and
now I know he is free, I will--will not set my mind on anything
else.'

There was a look so near heaven on her face, as she spoke, that Tom
durst not say any more of home, or earthly schemes; but, quiet,
grave, and awe-stricken, left her to the repose she needed, and
betook himself to the other room, where Ella, of course, flew on him,
having been hardly detained by Cora from breaking in before.  His
object was to go to see the medical man who had been attending
Averil; and Cora assuring him the horse had nothing to do in the
frost, and telling him the times of the day when he would be most
likely to find Dr. Laidlaw, he set forth.

Averil meantime lay on her sofa calmly happy, and thankful, the worn
and wearied spirit full of rest and gladness unspeakable, in the
fulness of gratitude for the answered prayer that she might know her
brother free before her death.  If she had ever doubted of her own
state, she had read full confirmation in her physician's saddened
eyes, and the absence of all hopeful auguries, except the single hint
that she might survive a voyage to England; and that she wished
unsaid.  Life, for the last five years, had been mournful work; there
had been one year of blind self-will, discord, and bitterness, then a
crushing stroke, and the rest exhausted submission and hopeless
bending to sorrow after sorrow, with self-reproach running through
all.  Wearied out, she was glad to lay down the burthen, and accept
the evening gleam as sunset radiance, without energy to believe it as
the dawn of a brighter day.  She shrank from being made even to wish
to see Leonard.  If once she began to think it possible, it would be
a hard sacrifice to give it up; and on one point her resolution was
fixed, that she would not be made a cause for bringing him to share
their wretchedness in America.  Life and things of life were over
with her, and she would only be thankful for the softening blessings
that came at its close, without stirring up vain longings for more.
That kindness of Tom May, for instance, how soothing it was after her
long self-reproach for her petulant and cutting unjust reply to his
generous affection--generous above all at such a moment!

And after all, it was he--it was he and no other who had cleared
Leonard--he had fulfilled the pledge he had given when he did not
know what he was talking of.  How she hated the blush that the sudden
remembrance had called up on her face!  It was quite plain that he
had been disgusted by her unkind, undignified, improper tone of
rejection; and though out of humanity he had brought her the tidings,
he would not let her approach to thanking him, she was ashamed that
he should have traced an allusion, the most distant, to the scene he
had, doubtless, loathed in remembrance.  He would, no doubt, go away
to-day or to-morrow, and then these foolish thoughts would subside,
and she should be left alone with Cora and her thankfulness, to think
again of the great change before her!

But Tom was not gone.  Indeed Averil was much more ill before the
next morning, partly from hysteria, the reaction of the morning's
excitement, and partly from an aggravation of the more serious
pulmonary affection.  It was a temporary matter, and one that made
his remaining the merest act of common humanity, since he had found
Dr. Laidlaw a very third-rate specimen, and her brother was too far
off to have arrived in time to be of use.  The fresh science and
skill of the young physician were indeed of the highest value, and
under his care Averil rallied after a few days of prostration and
suffering, during which she had watched and observed a good deal, and
especially the good understanding between her doctor and Cora Muller.
When Cousin Deborah was sitting with her, they always seemed to be
talking in the drawing-room; nay, there were reports of his joining
in the fabrication of some of the delicacies that were triumphantly
brought to her room; and Ella was in a state of impatient pique at
being slighted by 'Mr. Tom,' who, she complained, was always fighting
with Cora about their politics; and Cora herself used to bring what
Dr. May had said, as the choicest entertainment to her sick friend;
while to herself he was merely the physician, kind and gentle to the
utmost degree; but keeping his distance so scrupulously, that the
pang awoke that he absolutely disliked her, and only attended her
from common compassion; and, it might be, found consolation in being
thus brought in contact with Cora.  Oh, if it were only possible to
own her wrongs, and ask his pardon without a compromise of
maidenliness!  Perhaps--perhaps she might, when she was still nearer
death, and when she was supposed to know how it was between him and
Cora.  Dear Cora, it would be a beautiful reward for them both, and
they would take care of Ella.  Cora would be happier than ever yet
among the Mays--and--Oh! why, why was there so much unkind selfish
jealousy left, that instead of being glad, the notion left her so
very miserable?  Why did the prospect of such happiness for her self-
devoted friend and nurse make her feel full of bitterness, and hardly
able to bear it patiently, when she heard her speak the name of Dr.
May?

Averil had again left her bed, and resumed her place on the sofa
before letters arrived.  There was Leonard's from Cocksmoor
Parsonage, the first real letter she had had from him since his term
of servitude had begun.  It was a grave and thankful letter, very
short, doing little more than mention every one's kindness, and
express a hope of soon meeting her and Ella, however and wherever
Henry should think best.  Brief as it was, it made her more
thoroughly realize his liberty, and feel that the yearning towards
him in her heart was growing more and more ardent, in spite of her
strivings not to let it awaken.

The same post brought Henry's answer to Tom May's representation. It
was decisive.  He had broken off his whole connection with England,
and did not wish to return to a neighbourhood so full of painful
recollections.  He was making his way rapidly upwards in his present
position, and it would be folly to give up the advantages it offered;
moreover, he had no fears of the future well-doing of the Massissauga
Company.  As soon as the weather permitted it, he hoped to remove his
sister to a healthier locality for change of air, but she could not
be fit for a journey in the winter.  There were plenty of
acknowledgments to the Mays for their kindness to Leonard, from whom
Henry said he had heard, as well as from Dr. May, and others at
Stoneborough.  He should advise Leonard by all means to close with
Mr. Bramshaw's offer, for he saw no opening for him in the United
States at present, although the ultimate triumph over rebellion, &c.
&c. &c.--in the most inflated style of Henry's truly adopted country.
No one who had not known the whole affair would ever enter into
Leonard's entire innocence, the stigma of conviction would cleave to
him, and create an impression against him and his family among
strangers, and it was highly desirable that he should remain among
friends.  In fact, it was plain that Henry was still ashamed of him,
and wished to be free of a dangerous appendage.  Tom was so savagely
angry at this letter that he could only work off his wrath by a wild
expedition in the snow, in the course of which he lost his way,
wandered till the adventure began to grow perilous, came at last upon
a squatter, with great difficulty induced him to indicate the track
sufficiently for his English density, and arrived at Massissauga at
nine o'clock at night.  Averil was still on her sofa, quite calm and
quiet, all but her two red spots; but afterwards, in her own room,
she had one of her worst fits of spasms.

However, she was up and dressed by the middle of the next day, and,
contrary to her wont since the first time, she sent Ella out of the
room when her doctor came to see her.

'I wanted to speak to you,' she said, 'I have a great favour to ask
of you.  You will soon be going home.  Would you, could you take Ella
with you?  I know it is a great, a too great thing to ask.  But I
would not have her in any one's way.  I am going to write to Mrs.
Wills, at the school where I was, and Ella's means are quite enough
to keep her there, holidays and all, till Leonard can give her a
home.  It will be much better for her, and a relief to Henry; and it
will be giving back one--one to Leonard!  It will be one thing more
that I shall be happy about.'

Tom had let her go on with her short gentle sentences, because he
knew not how to answer; but at last she said, 'Forgive me, and do not
think of it, if I have asked what I ought not, or would be
troublesome.'

Troublesome! no, indeed!  I was only thinking--if it might not be
better managed,' he answered, rather by way of giving himself time to
debate whether the utterance of the one thought in his heart would
lead to his being driven away.

'Pray do not propose Leonard's coming for her!  He must come to this
feverish place in spring.  And if he came, and I were not here, and
Henry not wanting him!  Oh no, no; do not let me think of his
coming!'

'Averil,' he said, kneeling on one knee so as to be nearer, and to be
able to speak lower, 'you are so unearthly in your unselfishness,
that I dare the less to put before you the one way in which I could
take Ella home to him.  It is if you would overlook the past, and
give me a brother's right in them both.'

She turned in amazement to see if she had heard aright.  He had
removed his glasses, and the deep blue expressive eyes so seldom
plainly visible were wistfully, pleadingly, fixed on her, brimming
over with the dew of earnestness.  Her face of inquiry gave him
courage to go on, 'If you would only let me, I think I could bring
you home to see him; and if you would believe it and try, I believe I
could make you happier,' and with an uncontrollable shake in his
voice he ceased--and only looked.

She sat upright, her hands clasped in her lap, her eyes shut, trying
to collect her thoughts; and the silence lasted for several seconds.
At last she said, opening her eyes, but gazing straight before her,
not at him, 'I do not think I ought.  Do you really know what you are
saying?  You know I cannot get well.'

'I know,' he said.  'All I ask is, to tend and watch over you while I
may, to bring you home to Leonard, and to be Ella's brother.'

His voice was still and low, and he laid his hand on her folded ones
with reverent solemnity; but though it did not tremble, its touch was
cold as marble, and conveyed to Averil an instant sense of the force
of his repressed emotion.  She started under it, and exclaimed with
the first agitation she had shown, 'No, no; it would cost you too
much.  You, young, beginning life--you must not take a sorrow upon
you.'

'Is it not there already?' he said, almost inaudibly.  'Would it
lessen it to be kept away from you?'

'Oh, do not go on, do not tempt me,' she cried.  'Think of your
father.'

'Nay, think what he is yourself.  Or rather look here,' and he took
out a part of a letter from Ethel, and laid it before her.

'As to papa not guessing your object,' she said, 'that was a vain
delusion if you ever entertained it, so you must not mind my having
explained.  He said if he had been you, it was just what he should
have done himself, and he is quite ready to throw his heart into it
if you will only trust to his kindness.  I do so want you really to
try what that is.'

'And you came for this,' faltered Averil, leaning back, almost
overcome.

'I did not come meaning to hurry the subject on you.  I hoped to have
induced Henry to have brought you all home, and then, when I had done
my best to efface the recollection of that unpardonable behaviour, to
have tried whether you could look on me differently.'

'I don't like you to say that,' said Averil, simply but earnestly; 'I
have felt over and over again how wrong I was--how ungrateful--to
have utterly missed all the nobleness and generosity of your
behaviour, and answered in that unjust, ill-tempered way.'

'Nothing was ever more deserved,' he answered; 'I have hated myself
ever since, and I hope I am not as obnoxious now.'

'It was I!' she said; 'I have lived every bit of the winter over
again, and seen that I was always ready to be offended, and somehow I
could not help caring so much for what you said, that lesser things
from you hurt and cut as other people's did not.'

'Do you know what that proves?' said Tom, with an arch subsmile
lighting on his eyes and mouth; and as a glow awoke on her pale
cheek, he added, 'and won't you believe, too, that my propensity to
"contemptuous irony" was all from my instinctive fear of what you
could do to me!'

'Oh, don't repeat that!  I have been so bitterly ashamed of it!'

'I am sure I have.'

'And I have longed so to ask your pardon.  I thought I would leave a
letter or message with Ella that you would understand.'

'You can do better than that now.  You can forgive me.'

'Oh!' said Averil, her hands suddenly joined over her face, 'this is
one joy more!  I cannot think why it is all growing so bright just at
last--at last.  It is all come now!  How good it is!'

He saw that she could bear no more.  He pressed no more for a
decisive answer; he did not return to the subject; but from that time
he treated her as what belonged to him, as if it was his business to
think, act, and judge for her, and to watch over her; and her
acquiescence was absolute.

There was not much speaking between them; there were chiefly
skirmishes between him and Cora, to which she listened in smiling
passive amusement; and even when alone together they said little--
actually nothing at all about the future.  He had written to Ethel on
his first arrival, and on the reply, as well as on Averil's state,
all must depend.  Meanwhile such a look of satisfied repose and peace
shone upon Averil's face as was most sweet to look upon; and though
extremely feeble, and not essentially better, she was less suffering,
and could in great languor, but in calm enjoyment, pass through day
by day of the precious present that had come to crown her long trial.




CHAPTER XXX



Oh, when its flower seems fain to die,
The full heart grudges smile or sigh
To aught beside, though fair and dear;
Like a bruised leaf, at touch of fear,
Its hidden fragrance love gives out.--Lyra Innocentum


'The letters at last!  One to Ethel, and three to Leonard!  Now for
it, Ethel!'

Ethel opened--read--ran out of the room without a word, and sought
her father in his study, where she laid before him Tom's letter,
written from Massissauga the day after his arrival.


'Dear Ethel,

'I have found my darling, but too late to arrest the disease--the
work of her brother's perverseness and wrong-headedness.  I have no
hope of saving her; though it will probably be a matter of several
months--that is, with care, and removal from this vile spot.

'I am writing to Henry, but I imagine that he is too much charmed
with his present prospects to give them up; and in her angelic self-
sacrifice she insists on Leonard's not coming out.  Indeed, there
would be no use in his doing so unless she leaves this place; but
should no unforeseen complication supervene, it is my full persuasion
that she could be removed, safely make the voyage, and even be spared
for this summer among us.  Surely my father will not object!  It will
be but a short time; and she has suffered so much, so piteously needs
love and cherishing, that it is not in him to refuse.  He, who
consented to Margaret's engagement, cannot but feel for us.  I would
work for him all my life!  I would never cast a thought beyond home,
if only once hallowed by this dear presence for ever so short a time.
Only let the answers be so cordial as to remove all doubts or
scruples; and when they are sent prepare for her.  I would bring her
as quickly as her health permits.  No time must be lost in taking her
from hence; and I wait only for the letters to obtain her consent to
an immediate marriage.  Furnish the house at once; I will repay you
on my return.  There is 200 for the first floor, sitting, and
bedrooms; for the rest the old will do.  Only regard the making these
perfect; colouring pink--all as cheerful and pleasant as money can
accomplish.  If Flora will bear with me, get her to help you; or else
Mary, if Cheviot forgives me.  Only don't spare cost.  I will make it
up some way, if you find more wanted.  I saw an invalid sofa, an
improvement on Margaret's, which I will write to Gaspard to send from
Paris.  If you could only see the desolateness of the house where she
has wasted away these three years, you would long to make a bower of
bliss for her.  I trust to you.  I find I must trust everything to
you.  I cannot write to my father; I have made nine beginnings, and
must leave it to you.  He has comforted her, he knows her sorrows; he
could not see her and bid me leave her.  Only there must be no
hesitation.  That, or even remonstrance, would prevent her from
consenting; and as to the objections, I cannot know them better than
I do.  Indeed, all this may be in vain; she is so near Heaven, that I
dare not talk to her of this; but I have written to Leonard, dwelling
chiefly on the chance of bringing her to him.  Her desire to keep him
from attempting to come out will I trust be an inducement; but if you
could only see her, you would know how irreverent it seems to
persecute one so nearly an angel with such matters.  If I may only
tend her to the last!  I trust to you.  This is for my father.

                                          'Ever yours,
                                              'THOMAS MAY.'


The last sentence referred to a brief medical summary of her
symptoms, on a separate paper.

'Can this be Tom?' was the Doctor's exclamation.  'Poor boy! it is
going very hard with him!'

'This would soften it more than anything else could,' said Ethel.

'Oh yes!  You write.  Yes, and I'll write, and tell him he is free to
take his own way.  Poor child! she would have been a good girl if she
had known how.  Well, of all my eleven children that Tom should be
the one to go on in this way!'

'Poor dear Tom!  What do you think of his statement of her case?  Is
she so very ill?'

Dr. May screwed up his face.  'A sad variety of mischief,' he said;
'if all be as he thinks, I doubt his getting her home; but he is
young, and has his heart in it.  I have seen her mother in a state
like this--only without the diseased lungs.  You can't remember it;
but poor Ward never thought he could be grateful enough after she was
pulled through.  However, this is an aggravated case, and looks bad--
very bad!  It is a mournful ending for that poor boy's patience--it
will sink very deep, and he will be a sadder man all his days, but I
would not hinder his laying up a treasure that will brighten as he
grows older.'

'Thank you, papa.  I shall tell him what you say.'

'I shall write--to her I think.  I owe him something for not proving
that it is all as a study of pneumonia.  I say, Ethel, what is become
of the "Diseases of Climate?"' he added, with a twinkle in his eye.

'In the nine beginnings.'

'And how about the Massissauga Company?'

'You heartless old worldly-minded father!' said Ethel.  'When you
take to prudence for Tom, what is the world coming to?'

'Into order,' said the Doctor, shaking himself into the coat she held
for him.  'Tom surrendered to a pet patient of mine.  Now for poor
Leonard!  Good-bye, young people!  I am off to Cocksmoor!'

'Please take me, grandpapa,' cried Dickie, hopping into the hall.

'You, you one-legged manikin!  I'm going over all the world; and how
are you to get home?'

'On Leonard's back,' said the undaunted Dickie.

'Not so, master: poor Leonard has news here that will take the taste
of nonsense out of his mouth.'

'I am his friend,' said Dickie, with dignity.

'Then your friendship must not disturb him over his letters.  And can
you sit in the carriage and twirl your thumbs while I am at Fordham?'

'I shall not twirl my thumbs.  I shall make out a problem on my ship
chess-board.'

'That's the boy who was sent from the Antipodes, that he might not be
spoilt!' quoth Aubrey, as the Doctor followed the child into the
carriage.

'Granting reasonable wishes is not spoiling,' said Ethel.

'May the system succeed as well with Dickie as with--' and Aubrey in
one flourish indicated Gertrude and himself.

'Ay, we shall judge by the reception of Ethel's tidings!' cried
Gertrude.  'Now for it, Ethel.  Read us Tom's letter, confute the
engineer, hoist with his own petard.'

'Now, Ethel, confute the Daisy, the green field daisy--the simple
innocent daisy, deluded by "Diseases of Climate."'

'Ethel looks as concerned as if it were fatal truth,' added Gertrude.

'What is it?' asked Aubrey.  'If Henry Ward has gone down in a
monitor at Charleston, I'll forgive him.'

'Not that,' said Ethel; 'but we little thought how ill poor Ave is.'

'Dangerously?' said Aubrey, gravely.

'Not perhaps immediately so; but Tom means to marry at once, that he
may have a chance of bringing her home to see Leonard.'

'Another shock for Leonard,' said Aubrey, quite subdued, 'why can't
he have a little respite?'

'May they at least meet once more!' said Ethel; 'there will be some
comfort in looking to that!'

'And what a fellow Tom is to have thought of it,' added Aubrey.
'Nobody will ever dare to say again that he is not the best of the
kit of us!  I must be off now to the meet: but if you are writing,
Ethel, I wish you would give her my love, or whatever he would like,
and tell him he is a credit to the family.  I say, may I tell George
Rivers?'

'Oh yes; it will soon be in the air; and Charles Cheviot will be down
on us!'

Away went Aubrey to mount the hunter that George Rivers placed at his
service.

Gertrude, who had been struck dumb, looked up to ask, 'Then it is
really so?'

'Indeed it is.'

'Then,' cried Gertrude, vehemently, 'you and he have been deceiving
us all this time!'

'No, Gertrude, there was nothing to tell.  I did not really know, and
I could not gossip about him.'

'You might have hinted.'

'I tried, but I was clumsy.'

'I hate hints!' exclaimed the impetuous young lady; 'one can't
understand them, and gets the credit of neglecting them.  If people
have a secret attachment, they ought to let all their family know!'

'Perhaps they do in Ireland.'

'You don't feel one grain for me, Ethel,' said Gertrude, with tears
in her eyes.  'Only think how Tom led me on to say horrid things
about the Wards; and now to recollect them, when she is so ill too--
and he--' She burst into sobs.

'My poor Daisy!  I dare say it was half my fault.'

Gertrude gave an impatient leap.  'There you go again! calling it
your fault is worse than Charles's improving the circumstance.  It
was my fault, and it shall be my fault, and nobody else's fault,
except Tom's, and he will hate me, and never let me come near her to
show that I am not a nasty spiteful thing!'

'I think that if you are quiet and kind, and not flighty, he will
forget all that, and be glad to let you be a sister to her.'

'A sister to Ave Ward!  Pretty preferment!' muttered Gertrude.

'Poor Ave!  After the way she has borne her troubles, we shall feel
it an honour to be sisters to her.'

'And that chair!' broke out Gertrude.  'O, Ethel, you did out of
malice prepense make me vow it should be for Mrs. Thomas May.'

'Well, Daisy, if you won't suspect me of improving the circumstance,
I should say that finishing it for her would be capital discipline.'

'Horrid mockery, I should say,' returned Gertrude, sadly; 'a gaudy
rose-coloured chair, all over white fox-gloves, for a person in that
state--'

'Poor Tom's great wish is to have her drawing-room made as charming
as possible; and it would be a real welcome to her.'

'Luckily,' said Gertrude, breaking into laughter again, 'they don't
know when it began; how in a weak moment I admired the pattern, and
Blanche inflicted it and all its appurtenances on me, hoping to
convert me to a fancy-work-woman!  Dear me, pride has a fall!  I
loved to answer "Three stitches," when Mrs. Blanche asked after my
progress.'

'Ah, Daisy, if you did but respect any one!'

'If they would not all be tiresome!  Seriously, I know I must finish
the thing, because of my word.'

'Yes, and I believe keeping a light word that has turned out heavy,
is the best help in bridling the tongue.'

'And, Ethel, I will really try to be seen and not heard while I am
about the work,' said Gertrude, with an earnestness which proved that
she was more sorry than her manner conveyed.

Her resolution stood the trying test of a visit from the elder
married sisters; for, as Ethel said, the scent of the tidings
attracted both Flora and the Cheviots; and the head-master
endeavoured to institute a kind of family committee, to represent to
the Doctor how undesirable the match would be, entailing
inconveniences that would not end with the poor bride's life, and
bringing at once upon Tom a crushing anxiety and sorrow.  Ethel's
opinion was of course set aside by Mr. Cheviot, but he did expect
concurrence from Mrs. Rivers and from Richard, and Flora assented to
all his objections, but she was not to be induced to say she would
remonstrate with her father or with Tom; and she intimated the
uselessness thereof so plainly, that she almost hoped that Charles
Cheviot would be less eager to assail the Doctor with his arguments.

'No hope of that,' said Ethel, when he had taken leave.  'He will
disburthen his conscience; but then papa is well able to take care of
himself!  Flora, I am so thankful you don't object.'

'No indeed,' said Flora.  'We all know it is a pity; but it would be
a far greater pity to break it off now--and do Tom an infinity of
harm.  Now tell me all.'

And she threw herself into the subject in the homelike manner that
had grown on her, almost in proportion to Mary's guest-like ways and
absorption in her own affairs.

Six weeks from that time, another hasty note announced that Dr. and
Mrs. Thomas May and Ella were at Liverpool; adding that Averil had
been exceedingly ill throughout the voyage, though on being carried
ashore, she had so far revived, that Tom hoped to bring her home the
next day; but emotion was so dangerous, that he begged not to be met
at the station, and above all, that Leonard would not show himself
till summoned.

Dr. May being unavoidably absent, Ethel alone repaired to the newly-
furnished house for this strange sad bridal welcome.

The first person to appear when the carriage door was opened was a
young girl, pale, tall, thin, only to be recognized by her black
eyes.  With a rapid kiss and greeting, Ethel handed her on to the
further door, where she might satisfy the eager embrace of the
brother who there awaited her; while Tom almost lifted out the veiled
muffled figure of his bride, and led her up-stairs to the sitting-
room, where, divesting her of hat, cloak, muff, and respirator, he
laid her on the sofa, and looked anxiously for her reassuring smile
before he even seemed to perceive his sister or left room for her
greeting.

The squarely-made, high-complexioned, handsome Averil Ward was
entirely gone.  In Averil May, Ethel saw delicately refined and
sharpened features, dark beautiful eyes, enlarged, softened, and
beaming with perilous lustre, a transparently white blue-veined skin,
with a lovely roseate tint, deepening or fading with every word,
look, or movement, and a smile painfully sweet and touching, as first
of the three, the invalid found voice for thanks and inquiries for
all.

'Quite well,' said Ethel.  'But papa has been most unluckily sent for
to Whitford, and can't get home till the last train.'

'It may be as well,' said Tom: 'we must have perfect quiet till after
the night's rest.'

'May I see one else to-night?' she wistfully asked.

'Let us see how you are when you have had some coffee and are
rested.'

'Very well,' she said, with a gentle submission, that was as new a
sight as Tom's tenderness; 'but indeed I am not tired; and it is so
pretty and pleasant.  Is this really Dr. Spencer's old house?  Can
there be such a charming room in it?'

'I did not think so,' said Tom, looking in amazement at the effect
produced by the bright modern grate with its cheerful fire, the warm
delicate tints of the furniture, the appliances for comfort and
ornament already giving a home look.

'I know this is in the main your doing, Ethel; but who was the hand?'

'All of us were hands,' said Ethel; 'but Flora was the moving spring.
She went to London for a week about it.'

'Mrs. Rivers!  Oh, how good!' said Averil, flushing with surprise;
then raising herself, as her coffee was brought in a dainty little
service, she exclaimed, 'And oh, if it were possible, I should say
that was my dear old piano!'

'Yes,' said Ethel, 'we thought you would like it; and Hector
Ernescliffe gave Mrs. Wright a new one for it.'

This was almost too much.  Averil's lip trembled, but she looked up
into her husband's face, and made an answer, which would have been
odd had she not been speaking to his thought.

'Never mind! It is only happiness and the kindness.'  And she drank
the coffee with an effort, and smiled at him again, as she asked,
'Where is Ella?'

'At our house,' said Ethel; 'we mean her to be there for the
present.'

Knowing with whom Ella must be, and fearing to show discontent with
the mandate of patience, Averil again began to admire.  'What a
beautiful chair!  Look, Tom! is it not exquisite?  Whose work is it?'

'Gertrude's.'

'That is the most fabulous thing of all,' said Tom, walking round it.
'Daisy!  Her present, not her work?'

'Her work, every stitch.  It has been a race with time.' The
gratification of Averil's flush and smile was laid up by Ethel for
Gertrude's reward; but it was plain that Tom wanted complete rest for
his wife, and Ethel only waited to install her in the adjoining bed-
room, which was as delightfully fitted up as the first apartment.
Averil clung to her for the instant they were alone together, and
whispered, 'Oh, it is all so sweet!  Don't think I don't feel it!
But you see it is all I can do for him to be as quiet as I can!  Say
so, please!'

Ethel felt the throb of the heart, and knew to whom she was to say
so; but Tom's restless approaching step made Averil detach herself,
and sink into an arm-chair.  Ethel left her, feeling that the short
clasp of their arms had sealed their sisterhood here and for ever.

'It is too sad, too beautiful to be talked about,' she said to
Gertrude, who was anxiously on the watch for tidings.

Obedient as Averil was, she had not understood her husband's desire
that she should seek her pillow at once.  She was feeling brisk and
fresh, and by no means ready for captivity, and she presently came
forth again with her soft, feeble, noiseless step; but she had nearly
retreated again, feeling herself mistaken and bewildered, for in the
drawing-room stood neither Tom nor his sisters, but a stranger--a
dark, grave, thoughtful man of a singularly resolute and settled cast
of countenance.  The rustle of her dress made him look up as she
turned.  'Ave!' he exclaimed; and as their eyes met, the light in
those brown depths restored the whole past.  She durst not trust
herself to speak, as her head rested on his shoulder, his arms were
round her; only as her husband came on the scene with a gesture of
surprise, she said, 'Indeed, I did not mean it!  I did not know he
was here.'

'I might have known you could not be kept apart if I once let Leonard
in,' he said, as he arranged her on the sofa, and satisfied himself
that there were no tokens of the repressed agitation that left such
dangerous effects.  'Will you both be very good if I leave you to be
happy together?' he presently added, after a few indifferent words
had passed.

Averil looked wistfully after him, as if he were wanted to complete
full felicity even in Leonard's presence.  How little would they once
have thought that her first words to her brother would be,  'Oh, was
there ever any one like him?'

'We owe it all to him,' said Leonard.

'So kind,' added Averil, 'not to be vexed, though he dreaded our
meeting so much; and you see I could not grieve him by making a fuss.
But this is nice!' she added, with a sigh going far beyond the effect
of the homely word.

'You are better.  Ella said so.'

'I am feeling well to-night.  Come, let me look at you, and learn
your face.'

He knelt down beside her, and she stroked back the hair, which had
fulfilled his wish that she should find it as long, though much
darker than of old.  Posture and action recalled that meeting, when
her couch had been his prison bed, and the cold white prison walls
had frowned on them; yet even in the rosy light of the cheerful room
there was on them the solemnity of an approaching doom.

'Where is the old face?' Averil said.  'You look as you did in the
fever.  Your smile brings back something of yourself.  But, oh, those
hollow eyes!'

'Count Ugolino is Dr. May's name for me: but, indeed, Ave, I have
tried to fatten for your inspection.'

'It is not thinness,' she said, 'but I had carried about with me the
bright daring open face of my own boy.  I shall learn to like this
better now.'

'Nay, it is you and Ella that are changed.  O, Ave, you never let me
know what a place you were in.'

'There were many things better than you fancy,' she answered; 'and it
is over--it is all gladness now.'

'I see that in your face,' he said, gazing his fill.  'You do look
ill indeed; but, Ave, I never saw you so content.'

'I can't help it,' she said, smiling.  'Every moment comes some fresh
kindness from him.  The more trouble I give him the kinder he is.  Is
it not as if the tempest was over, and we had been driven into the
smoothest little sunshiny bay?'

'To rest and refit,' he said, thoughtfully.

'For me, "the last long wave;" and a most gentle smooth one it is,'
said Averil; 'for you to refit for a fresh voyage.  Dear Leonard, I
have often guessed what you would do.'

'What have you guessed?'

'Only what we used to plan, in the old times after you had been at
Coombe, Leonard.'

'Dear sister!  And you would let me go!'

'Our parting is near, any way,' she said, her eye turning to the
print from Ary Scheffer's St. Augustine and Monica.  'Whoever gave us
that, divined how we ought to feel in these last days together.'

'It was Richard May's gift,' said Leonard.  'Ave, there was nothing
wanting but your liking this.'

'Then so it is?' she asked.

'Unless the past disqualifies me,' he said.  'I have spoken to no one
yet, except little Dickie.  When I thought I ought to find some
present employment, and wanted to take a clerkship at Bramshaw's, Dr.
May made me promise to wait till I had seen you before I fixed on
anything; but my mind is made up, and I shall speak now--with your
blessing on it, Ave.'

'I knew it!' she said.

He saw it was safer to quit this subject, and asked for Henry.

'He sent his love.  He met us at New York.  He is grown so soldierly,
with such a black beard, that he is more grown out of knowledge than
any of us, but I scarcely saw him, for he was quite overset at my
appearance, and Tom thought it did me harm.  I wish our new sister
would have come to see me.

'Sister!'

'Oh, did you not know?  I thought Tom had written!  She is a
Virginian lady, whose first husband was a doctor, who died of camp-
fever early in the war.  A Federal, of course.  And they are to be
married as soon as Charleston has fallen.'

Leonard smiled.  And Averil expressed her certainty that it had
fallen by that time.

'And he is quite Americanized?' asked Leonard.  'Does he return to
our own name!  No?  Then I do not wonder he did not wish for me.
Perhaps he may yet bear to meet me, some day when we are grown old.'

'At least we can pray to be altogether, where one is gone already'
said Averil.  'That was the one comfort in parting with the dear
Cora--my blessing through all the worst!  Leonard, she would not go
to live in the fine house her father has taken at New York, but she
is gone to be one of the nurses in the midst of all the hospital
miseries.  And, oh, what comfort she will carry with her!'

Here Tom returned, but made no objection to her brother's stay,
perceiving that his aspect and voice were like fulness to the hungry
heart that had pined so long--but keeping all the others away; and
they meanwhile were much entertained by Ella, who was in joyous
spirits; a little subdued, indeed, by the unknown brother, but in his
absence very communicative.  Gertrude was greatly amused with her
account of the marriage, in the sitting-room at Massissauga, and of
Tom's being so unprepared for the brevity of the American form, that
he never knew where he was in the Service, and completed it with a
puzzled 'Is that all?'

Averil had, according to Ella, been infinitely more calm and
composed.  'She does nothing but watch his eyes,' said Ella; 'and
ever since we parted from Cora, I have had no one to speak to!  In
the cabin he never stirred from sitting by her; and if she could
speak at all, it was so low that I could not hear.  School will be
quite lively.'

'Are you going to school?'

'Oh yes! where Ave was.  That is quite fixed; and I have had enough
of playing third person,' said Ella, with her precocious Western
manner.  'You know I have all my own property, so I shall be on no
one's hands!  Oh, and Cora made her father buy all Ave's Massissauga
shares--at a dead loss to us of course.'

'Well,' said Gertrude, 'I am sorry Tom is not an American share-
holder.  It was such fun!'

'He wanted to have made them all over to Henry; but Cora was
determined; and her father is making heaps of money as a commissary,
so I am sure he could afford it.  Some day, when the rebellion is
subdued, I mean to go and see Cora and Henry and his wife,' added
Ella, whose tinge of Americanism formed an amusing contrast with
Dickie's colonial ease--especially when she began to detail the
discomforts of Massissauga, and he made practical suggestions for the
remedies of each--describing how mamma and he himself managed.

The younger ones had all gone to bed, Richard had returned home, and
Ethel was waiting to let her father in, when Leonard came back with
the new arrivals.

'I did not think you would be allowed to stay so late,' said Ethel.

'We did not talk much.  I was playing chants most of the time; and
after she went to bed, I stayed with Tom.'

'What do you think of her?'

'I cannot think.  I can only feel a sort of awe.  End as it may, it
will have been a blessed thing to have had her among us like this.'

'Yes, it ought to do us all good.  And I think she is full of
enjoyment.'

'Perfect enjoyment!' repeated Leonard.  'Thank God for that!'

After some pause, during which he turned over his pocket-book, as if
seeking for something, he came to her, and said, 'Miss May, Averil
has assented to a purpose that has long been growing up within me--
and that I had rather consult you about than any one, because you
first inspired it.'

'I think I know the purpose you mean,' said Ethel, her heart beating
high.

'The first best purpose of my boyhood,' he said.  'If only it may be
given back to me!  Will you be kind enough to look over this rough
copy?'

It was the draught of a letter to the Missionary Bishop, Mr.
Seaford's diocesan, briefly setting forth Leonard's early history,
his conviction, and his pardon, referring to Archdeacon May as a
witness to the truth of his narrative.

'After this statement,' he proceeded, 'it appears to me little short
of effrontery to offer myself for any share of the sacred labour in
which your Lordship is engaged; and though it had been the wish of
the best days of my youth, I should not have ventured on the thought
but for the encouragement I received from Mr. Seaford, your
Lordship's chaplain.  I have a small income of my own, so that I
should not be a burthen on the mission, and understanding that
mechanical arts are found useful, I will mention that I learnt
shoemaking at Milbank, and carpentry at Portland, and I would gladly
undertake any manual occupation needed in a mission.  Latterly I was
employed in the schoolmaster's department; and I have some knowledge
of music.  My education is of course, imperfect, but I am
endeavouring to improve myself.  My age is twenty-one; I have good
health, and I believe I can bring power of endurance and willingness
to be employed in any manner that may be serviceable, whether as
artisan or catechist.'

'I don't think they will make a shoemaker of you,' said Ethel, with
her heart full.

'Will they have me at all?  There will always be a sort of ticket-of-
leave flavour about me,' said Leonard, speaking simply, straight-
forwardly, but without dejection; 'and I might be doubtful material
for a mission.'

'Your brother put that in your head.'

'He implied that my case half known would be a discredit to him, and
I am prepared for others thinking so.  If so, I can get a situation
at Portland, and I know I can be useful there; but when such a hope
as this was opened to me again, I could not help making an attempt.
Do you think I may show that letter to Dr. May?'

'O, Leonard, this is one of the best days of one's life!'

'But what,' he asked, as she looked over the letter, 'what shall I
alter?'

'I do not know, only you are so business-like; you do not seem to
care enough.'

'If I let myself out, it would look like unbecoming pressing of
myself, considering what I am; but if you think I ought, I will say
more.  I have become so much used to writing letters under
constraint, that I know I am very dry.'

'Let papa see it first,' said Ethel.  'After all, earnestness is best
out of sight.'

'Mr. Wilmot and he shall decide whether I may send it,' he said; 'and
in the meantime I would go to St. Augustine's, if they will have me.'

'I see you have thought it all over.'

'Yes.  I only waited to have spoken with my sister, and she--dear,
dear Ave--had separately thought of such a destination for me.  It
was more than acquiescence, more than I dared to hope!'

'Her spirit will be with you, wherever she is!  And,' with a sudden
smile, 'Leonard, was not this the secret between you and Dickie?'

'Yes,' said Leonard, smiling too; 'the dear little fellow is so fresh
and loving, as well as so wise and discreet, that he draws out all
that is in one's heart.  It has been a new life to me ever since he
took to me!  Do you know, I believe he has been writing a letter of
recommendation of me on his own account to the Bishop; I told him he
must enclose it to his father if he presumed to send it, though he
claims the Bishop as his intimate friend.'

'Ah,' said Ethel, 'papa is always telling him that they can't get on
in New Zealand for want of the small archdeacon, and that, I really
think, abashes him more than anything else.'

'He is not forward, he is only sensible,' said Leonard, on whose
heart Dickie had far too fast a hold for even this slight
disparagement not to be rebutted.  'I had forgotten what a child
could be till I was with him; I felt like a stock or a stone among
you all.'

Ethel smiled.  'I was nearly giving you "Marmion", in remembrance of
old times, on the night of the Christmas-tree,' she said; 'but I did
not then feel as if the "giving double" for all your care and trouble
had begun.'

'The heart to feel it so was not come,' said Leonard; 'now since I
have grasped this hope of making known to others the way to that
Grace that held me up,'--he paused with excess of feeling--'all has
been joy, even in the recollection of the darkest days.  Mr. Wilmot's
words come back now, that it may all have been training for my
Master's work.  Even the manual labour may have been my preparation!'
His eyes brightened, and he was indeed more like the eager, hopeful
youth she remembered than she had ever hoped to see him; but this
brightness was the flash of steel, tried, strengthened, and refined
in the fire--a brightness that might well be trusted.

'One knew it must be so,' was all she could say.

'Yes, yes,' he said, eagerly.  'You sent me words of greeting that
held up my faith; and, above all, when we read those books at Coombe,
you put the key of comfort in my hand, and I never quite lost it.
Miss May,' he added, as Dr. May's latch-key was heard in the front
door, 'if ever I come to any good, I owe it to you!'

And that was the result of the boy's romance.  The first tidings of
the travellers next morning were brought near the end of breakfast by
Tom, who came in looking thin, worn, and anxious, saying that Averil
had called herself too happy to sleep till morning, when a short doze
had only rendered her feeble, exhausted, and depressed.

'I shall go and see her,' said Dr. May; 'I like my patients best in
that mood.'

Nor would the Doctor let his restless, anxious son do more than make
the introduction, but despatched him to the Hospital; whence
returning to find himself still excluded, he could endure nothing but
pacing up and down the lawn in sight of his father's head in the
window, and seeking as usual Ethel's sympathy.

There was some truth in what Charles Cheviot had said.  Wedlock did
enhance the grief and loss, and Tom found the privilege of these
months of tendance more heart-wringing than he had anticipated,
though of course more precious and inestimable.  Moreover, Averil's
depression had been a phase of her illness which had not before
revealed itself in such a degree.

'Generally,' he said, 'she has talked as if what she looks to were
all such pure hope and joy, that though it broke one's heart to hear
it, one saw it made her happy, and could stand it.  Fancy, Ethel, not
an hour after we were married, I found her trying the ring on this
finger, and saying I should be able to wear it like my father!  It
seemed as if she would regret nothing but my sorrow, and that my
keeping it out of sight was all that was needful to her happiness.
But to-day she has been blaming herself for--for grieving to leave
all so soon, just as her happiness might have been beginning!  Think,
Ethel!  Reproaching herself for unthankfulness even to tears!  It
might have been more for her peace to have remained with her where
she had no revival of these associations, if they are only pain to
her.'

'Oh no, no, Tom.  It only proves the pleasure they do give her.  You
know, better than I do, that there must be ups and downs, failures of
spirits from fatigue when the will is peaceful and resigned.'

'I know it.  I know it with my understanding, Ethel, but as to
reasoning about her as if she was anybody else, the thing is mere
mockery.  What can my father be about?' he added, for the twentieth
time.  'Talking to her in the morning always knocks her up.  If he
had only let me warn him; but he hurried me off in his inconsiderate
way.'

At last, however, the head disappeared, and Tom rushed indoors.

'So, Tom, you have made shorter work of twenty-five patients than I
of one.'

'I'll go again,' said poor Tom, in the desperation of resolute
meekness, 'only let me see how she is.'

'Let Ethel go up now.  She is very cheery except for a little
headache.'

While Ethel obeyed, Dr. May began a minute interrogation of his son,
so lengthened that Tom could hardly restrain sharp impatient replies
to such apparent trifling with his agony to learn how long his father
thought he could keep his treasure, and how much suffering might be
spared to her.

At last Dr. May said, 'I may be wrong.  Your science is fresher than
mine; but to me there seem indications that the organic disease is in
the way of being arrested.  Good health of course she cannot have;
but if she weathers another winter, I think you may look for as many
years of happiness with her as in an ordinary case.'

It was the first accent of hope since the hysteric scream that had
been his greeting, and all his reserve and dread of emotion: could
not prevent his covering his face with his hands, and sobbing aloud.
'Father, father,' he said, 'you cannot tell what this is to me!'

'I can in part, my boy,' said the Doctor, sadly.

'And,' he started up and walked about the room, 'you shall have the
whole treatment.  I will only follow your measures.  No one at New
York saw the slightest hope of checking it.'

'They had your account, and you hardly allowed enough for the
hysterical affection.  I do not say it is certainty--far less,
health.'

'Any way, any way, if I may only have her to lie and look at me, it
is happiness unlooked for!  You don't think I could have treated her
otherwise?'

'No.  Under His blessing you saved her yourself.  You would have
perceived the change if she had been an indifferent person.'

Tom made another turn to the door, and came back still half wild, and
laid his face on his arms upon the table.  'You tell her,' he said,
'I shall never be able--'

Knocking at Averil's door, Dr. May was answered by a call of 'Tom.'

'Not this time, my dear.  He is coming, but we have been talking you
over.  Ave, you have a very young doctor, and rather too much
interested.'

'Indeed!' she said, indignantly; 'he has made me much better.'

'Exactly so, my dear; so much better that he agrees with me that he
expressed a strong opinion prematurely.'

'They thought the same at New York,' she said, still resolved on his
defence.

'My dear, unless you are bent on growing worse in order to justify
his first opinion, I think you will prove that which he now holds.
And, Ave, it was, under Providence, skill that we may be proud of by
which he has subdued the really fatal disorder.  You may have much to
undergo, and must submit to a sofa life and much nursing, but I think
you will not leave him so soon.'

There was a long pause; at last she said, 'O, Dr. May, I beg your
pardon.  If I had known, I would never--'

'Never what, my dear?'

'Never have consented!  It is such a grievous thing for a
professional man to have a sick wife.'

'It is exactly what he wanted, my dear, if you will not fly at me for
saying so.  Nothing else could teach him that patients are not cases
but persons; and here he comes to tell you what he thinks of the
trouble of a sick wife.'

'Well,' said Dr. May, as he and Ethel walked away together, 'poor
young things, they have a chequered time before them.  Pretty well
for the doctor who hated sick people, Wards, and Stoneborough; but,
after all, I have liked none of our weddings better.  I like people
to rub one another brighter.'

'And I am proud when the least unselfish nature has from first to
last done the most unselfish things.  No one of us has ever given up
so much as Tom, and I am sure he will be happy in it.'

More can hardly be said without straying into the realms of
prediction; yet such of our readers as are bent on carrying on their
knowledge of the Daisies beyond the last sentence, may be told that,
to the best of our belief, Leonard's shoemaking is not his foremost
office in the mission, where he finds that fulness of hopeful
gladness which experience shows is literally often vouchsafed to
those who have given up home, land, and friends, for the Gospel's
sake.  His letters are the delight of more than one at Stoneborough;
and his sister, upon her sofa, is that home member of a mission
without whom nothing can be done--the copier of letters, the depot of
gifts, the purveyor of commissions, the maker of clothes, the
collector of books, the keeper of accounts--so that the house still
merits the name of the S. P. G. office, as it used to be called in
the Spenserian era.  But Mrs. Thomas May is a good deal more than
this.  Her sofa is almost a renewal of the family centre that once
Margaret's was; the region where all tidings are brought fresh for
discussion, all joys and sorrows poured out, the external influence
that above all has tended to soften Gertrude into the bright grace of
womanhood.  Mary Cheviot and Blanche Ernescliffe cannot be cured of a
pitying 'poor Tom'--as they speak of 'the Professor'--in which title
the awkward sound of Dr. Tom has been merged since an appointment
subsequent to the appearance of the "Diseases of Climate".  But every
one else holds that not his honours as a scientific physician, his
discoveries, and ably-written  papers--not even his father's full and
loving confidence and gratitude, give Professor May as much happiness
as that bright-eyed delicate wife, with whom all his thoughts seem to
begin and end.









This etext was prepared by Dianne Bean, Prescott Valley, Arizona.





THE RIVER'S END
James Oliver Curwood

THE RIVER'S END

I

Between Conniston, of His Majesty's Royal Northwest Mounted Police, and
Keith, the outlaw, there was a striking physical and facial
resemblance. Both had observed it, of course. It gave them a sort of
confidence in each other. Between them it hovered in a subtle and
unanalyzed presence that was constantly suggesting to Conniston a line
of action that would have made him a traitor to his oath of duty. For
nearly a month he had crushed down the whispered temptings of this
thing between them. He represented the law. He was the law. For
twenty-seven months he had followed Keith, and always there had been in
his mind that parting injunction of the splendid service of which he
was a part--"Don't come back until you get your man, dead or alive."
Otherwise--

A racking cough split in upon his thoughts. He sat up on the edge of
the cot, and at the gasping cry of pain that came with the red stain of
blood on his lips Keith went to him and with a strong arm supported his
shoulders. He said nothing, and after a moment Conniston wiped the
stain away and laughed softly, even before the shadow of pain had faded
from his eyes. One of his hands rested on a wrist that still bore the
ring-mark of a handcuff. The sight of it brought him back to grim
reality. After all, fate was playing whimsically as well as tragically
with their destinies.

"Thanks, old top," he said. "Thanks."

His fingers closed over the manacle-marked wrist.

Over their heads the arctic storm was crashing in a mighty fury, as if
striving to beat down the little cabin that had dared to rear itself in
the dun-gray emptiness at the top of the world, eight hundred miles
from civilization. There were curious waitings, strange screeching
sounds, and heart-breaking meanings in its strife, and when at last its
passion died away and there followed a strange quiet, the two men could
feel the frozen earth under their feet shiver with the rumbling
reverberations of the crashing and breaking fields of ice out in
Hudson's Bay. With it came a dull and steady roar, like the incessant
rumble of a far battle, broken now and then--when an ice mountain split
asunder--with a report like that of a sixteen-inch gun. Down through
the Roes Welcome into Hudson's Bay countless billions of tons of ice
were rending their way like Hunnish armies in the break-up.

"You'd better lie down," suggested Keith.

Conniston, instead, rose slowly to his feet and went to a table on
which a seal-oil lamp was burning. He swayed a little as he walked. He
sat down, and Keith seated himself opposite him. Between them lay a
worn deck of cards. As Conniston fumbled them in his fingers, he looked
straight across at Keith and grinned.

"It's queer, devilish queer," he said.

"Don't you think so, Keith?" He was an Englishman, and his blue eyes
shone with a grim, cold humor. "And funny," he added.

"Queer, but not funny," partly agreed Keith.

"Yes, it is funny," maintained Conniston. "Just twenty-seven months
ago, lacking three days, I was sent out to get you, Keith. I was told
to bring you in dead or alive--and at the end of the twenty-sixth month
I got you, alive. And as a sporting proposition you deserve a hundred
years of life instead of the noose, Keith, for you led me a chase that
took me through seven different kinds of hell before I landed you. I
froze, and I starved, and I drowned. I haven't seen a white woman's
face in eighteen months. It was terrible. But I beat you at last.
That's the jolly good part of it, Keith--I beat you and GOT you, and
there's the proof of it on your wrists this minute. I won. Do you
concede that? You must be fair, old top, because this is the last big
game I'll ever play." There was a break, a yearning that was almost
plaintive, in his voice.

Keith nodded. "You won," he said.

"You won so square that when the frost got your lung--"

"You didn't take advantage of me," interrupted Conniston. "That's the
funny part of it, Keith. That's where the humor comes in. I had you all
tied up and scheduled for the hangman when--bing!--along comes a cold
snap that bites a corner of my lung, and the tables are turned. And
instead of doing to me as I was going to do to you, instead of killing
me or making your getaway while I was helpless--Keith--old pal--YOU'VE
TRIED TO NURSE ME BACK TO LIFE! Isn't that funny? Could anything be
funnier?"

He reached a hand across the table and gripped Keith's. And then, for a
few moments, he bowed his head while his body was convulsed by another
racking cough. Keith sensed the pain of it in the convulsive clutching
of Conniston's fingers about his own. When Conniston raised his face,
the red stain was on his lips again.

"You see, I've got it figured out to the day," he went on, wiping away
the stain with a cloth already dyed red. "This is Thursday. I won't see
another Sunday. It'll come Friday night or some time Saturday. I've
seen this frosted lung business a dozen times. Understand? I've got two
sure days ahead of me, possibly a third. Then you'll have to dig a hole
and bury me. After that you will no longer be held by the word of honor
you gave me when I slipped off your manacles. And I'm asking you--WHAT
ARE YOU GOING TO DO?"

In Keith's face were written deeply the lines of suffering and of
tragedy. Yesterday they had compared ages.

He was thirty-eight, only a little younger than the man who had run him
down and who in the hour of his achievement was dying. They had not put
the fact plainly before. It had been a matter of some little
embarrassment for Keith, who at another time had found it easier to
kill a man than to tell this man that he was going to die. Now that
Conniston had measured his own span definitely and with most amazing
coolness, a load was lifted from Keith's shoulders. Over the table they
looked into each other's eyes, and this time it was Keith's fingers
that tightened about Conniston's. They looked like brothers in the
sickly glow of the seal-oil lamp.

"What are you going to do?" repeated Conniston.

Keith's face aged even as the dying Englishman stared at him. "I
suppose--I'll go back," he said heavily.

"You mean to Coronation Gulf? You'll return to that stinking mess of
Eskimo igloos? If you do, you'll go mad!"

"I expect to," said Keith. "But it's the only thing left. You know
that. You of all men must know how they've hunted me. If I went south--"

It was Conniston's turn to nod his head, slowly and thoughtfully. "Yes,
of course," he agreed. "They're hunting you hard, and you're giving 'em
a bully chase. But they'll get you, even up there. And I'm--sorry."

Their hands unclasped. Conniston filled his pipe and lighted it. Keith
noticed that he held the lighted taper without a tremor. The nerve of
the man was magnificent.

"I'm sorry," he said again. "I--like you. Do you know, Keith, I wish
we'd been born brothers and you hadn't killed a man. That night I
slipped the ring-dogs on you I felt almost like a devil. I wouldn't say
it if it wasn't for this bally lung. But what's the use of keeping it
back now? It doesn't seem fair to keep a man up in that place for three
years, running from hole to hole like a rat, and then take him down for
a hanging. I know it isn't fair in your case. I feel it. I don't mean
to be inquisitive, old chap, but I'm not believing Departmental 'facts'
any more. I'd make a topping good wager you're not the sort they make
you out. And so I'd like to know--just why--you killed Judge Kirkstone?"

Keith's two fists knotted in the center of the table. Conniston saw his
blue eyes darken for an instant with a savage fire. In that moment
there came a strange silence over the cabin, and in that silence the
incessant and maddening yapping of the little white foxes rose shrilly
over the distant booming and rumbling of the ice.



II

"Why did I kill Judge Kirkstone?" Keith repeated the words slowly.

His clenched hands relaxed, but his eyes held the steady glow of fire.
"What do the Departmental 'facts' tell you, Conniston?"

"That you murdered him in cold blood, and that the honor of the Service
is at stake until you are hung."

"There's a lot in the view-point, isn't there? What if I said I didn't
kill Judge Kirkstone?"

Conniston leaned forward a little too eagerly. The deadly paroxysm
shook his frame again, and when it was over his breath came pantingly,
as if hissing through a sieve. "My God, not Sunday--or Saturday," he
breathed. "Keith, it's coming TOMORROW!"

"No, no, not then," said Keith, choking back something that rose in his
throat. "You'd better lie down again."

Conniston gathered new strength. "And die like a rabbit? No, thank you,
old chap! I'm after facts, and you can't lie to a dying man. Did you
kill Judge Kirkstone?"

"I--don't--know," replied Keith slowly, looking steadily into the
other's eyes. "I think so, and yet I am not positive. I went to his
home that night with the determination to wring justice from him or
kill him. I wish you could look at it all with my eyes, Conniston. You
could if you had known my father. You see, my mother died when I was a
little chap, and my father and I grew up together, chums. I don't
believe I ever thought of him as just simply a father. Fathers are
common. He was more than that. From the time I was ten years old we
were inseparable. I guess I was twenty before he told me of the deadly
feud that existed between him and Kirkstone, and it never troubled me
much--because I didn't think anything would ever come of it--until
Kirkstone got him. Then I realized that all through the years the old
rattlesnake had been watching for his chance. It was a frame-up from
beginning to end, and my father stepped into the trap. Even then he
thought that his political enemies, and not Kirkstone, were at the
bottom of it. We soon discovered the truth. My father got ten years. He
was innocent. And the only man on earth who could prove his innocence
was Kirkstone, the man who was gloating like a Shylock over his pound
of flesh. Conniston, if you had known these things and had been in my
shoes, what would you have done?"

Conniston, lighting another taper over the oil flame, hesitated and
answered: "I don't know yet, old chap. What did you do?"

"I fairly got down on my knees to the scoundrel," resumed Keith. "If
ever a man begged for another man's life, I begged for my father's--for
the few words from Kirkstone that would set him free. I offered
everything I had in the world, even my body and soul. God, I'll never
forget that night! He sat there, fat and oily, two big rings on his
stubby fingers--a monstrous toad in human form--and he chuckled and
laughed at me in his joy, as though I were a mountebank playing amusing
tricks for him--and there my soul was bleeding itself out before his
eyes! And his son came in, fat and oily and accursed like his father,
and HE laughed at me. I didn't know that such hatred could exist in the
world, or that vengeance could bring such hellish joy. I could still
hear their gloating laughter when I stumbled out into the night. It
haunted me. I heard it in the trees. It came in the wind. My brain was
filled with it--and suddenly I turned back, and I went into that house
again without knocking, and I faced the two of them alone once more in
that room. And this time, Conniston, I went back to get justice--or to
kill. Thus far it was premeditated, but I went with my naked hands.
There was a key in the door, and I locked it. Then I made my demand. I
wasted no words--"

Keith rose from the table and began to pace back and forth. The wind
had died again. They could hear the yapping of the foxes and the low
thunder of the ice.

"The son began it," said Keith. "He sprang at me. I struck him. We
grappled, and then the beast himself leaped at me with some sort of
weapon in his hand. I couldn't see what it was, but it was heavy. The
first blow almost broke my shoulder. In the scuffle I wrenched it from
his hand, and then I found it was a long, rectangular bar of copper
made for a paper-weight. In that same instant I saw the son snatch up a
similar object from the table, and in the act he smashed the table
light. In darkness we fought. I did not feel that I was fighting men.
They were monsters and gave me the horrible sensation of being in
darkness with crawling serpents. Yes, I struck hard. And the son was
striking, and neither of us could see. I felt my weapon hit, and it was
then that Kirkstone crumpled down with a blubbery wheeze. You know what
happened after that. The next morning only one copper weight was found
in that room. The son had done away with the other. And the one that
was left was covered with Kirkstone's blood and hair. There was no
chance for me. So I got away. Six months later my father died in
prison, and for three years I've been hunted as a fox is hunted by the
hounds. That's all, Conniston. Did I kill Judge Kirkstone? And, if I
killed him, do you think I'm sorry for it, even though I hang?"

"Sit down!"

The Englishman's voice was commanding. Keith dropped back to his seat,
breathing hard. He saw a strange light in the steely blue eyes of
Conniston.

"Keith, when a man knows he's going to live, he is blind to a lot of
things. But when he knows he's going to die, it's different. If you had
told me that story a month ago, I'd have taken you down to the hangman
just the same. It would have been my duty, you know, and I might have
argued you were lying. But you can't lie to me--now. Kirkstone deserved
to die. And so I've made up my mind what you're going to do. You're not
going back to Coronation Gulf. You're going south. You're going back
into God's country again. And you're not going as John Keith, the
murderer, but as Derwent Conniston of His Majesty's Royal Northwest
Mounted Police! Do you get me, Keith? Do you understand?"

Keith simply stared. The Englishman twisted a mustache, a half-humorous
gleam in his eyes. He had been thinking of this plan of his for some
time, and he had foreseen just how it would take Keith off his feet.

"Quite a scheme, don't you think, old chap? I like you. I don't mind
saying I think a lot of you, and there isn't any reason on earth why
you shouldn't go on living in my shoes. There's no moral objection. No
one will miss me. I was the black sheep back in England--younger
brother and all that--and when I had to choose between Africa and
Canada, I chose Canada. An Englishman's pride is the biggest fool thing
on earth, Keith, and I suppose all of them over there think I'm dead.
They haven't heard from me in six or seven years. I'm forgotten. And
the beautiful thing about this scheme is that we look so deucedly
alike, you know. Trim that mustache and beard of yours a little, add a
bit of a scar over your right eye, and you can walk in on old McDowell
himself, and I'll wager he'll jump up and say, 'Bless my heart, if it
isn't Conniston!' That's all I've got to leave you, Keith, a dead man's
clothes and name. But you're welcome. They'll be of no more use to me
after tomorrow."

"Impossible!" gasped Keith. "Conniston, do you know what you are
saying?"

"Positively, old chap. I count every word, because it hurts when I
talk. So you won't argue with me, please. It's the biggest sporting
thing that's ever come my way. I'll be dead. You can bury me under this
floor, where the foxes can't get at me. But my name will go on living
and you'll wear my clothes back to civilization and tell McDowell how
you got your man and how he died up here with a frosted lung. As proof
of it you'll lug your own clothes down in a bundle along with any other
little identifying things you may have, and there's a sergeancy
waiting. McDowell promised it to you--if you got your man. Understand?
And McDowell hasn't seen me for two years and three months, so if I
MIGHT look a bit different to him, it would be natural, for you and I
have been on the rough edge of the world all that time. The jolly good
part of it all is that we look so much alike. I say the idea is
splendid!"

Conniston rose above the presence of death in the thrill of the great
gamble he was projecting. And Keith, whose heart was pounding like an
excited fist, saw in a flash the amazing audacity of the thing that was
in Conniston's mind, and felt the responsive thrill of its
possibilities. No one down there would recognize in him the John Keith
of four years ago. Then he was smooth-faced, with shoulders that
stooped a little and a body that was not too strong. Now he was an
animal! A four years' fight with the raw things of life had made him
that, and inch for inch he measured up with Conniston. And Conniston,
sitting opposite him, looked enough like him to be a twin brother. He
seemed to read the thought in Keith's mind. There was an amused glitter
in his eyes.

"I suppose it's largely because of the hair on our faces," he said.
"You know a beard can cover a multitude of physical sins--and
differences, old chap. I wore mine two years before I started out after
you, vandyked rather carefully, you understand, so you'd better not use
a razor. Physically you won't run a ghost of a chance of being caught.
You'll look the part. The real fun is coming in other ways. In the next
twenty-four hours you've got to learn by heart the history of Derwent
Conniston from the day he joined the Royal Mounted. We won't go back
further than that, for it wouldn't interest you, and ancient history
won't turn up to trouble you. Your biggest danger will be with
McDowell, commanding F Division at Prince Albert. He's a human fox of
the old military school, mustaches and all, and he can see through
boiler-plate. But he's got a big heart. He has been a good friend of
mine, so along with Derwent Conniston's story you've got to load up
with a lot about McDowell, too. There are many things--OH, GOD--"

He flung a hand to his chest. Grim horror settled in the little cabin
as the cough convulsed him. And over it the wind shrieked again,
swallowing up the yapping of the foxes and the rumble of the ice.

That night, in the yellow sputter of the seal-oil lamp, the fight
began. Grim-faced--one realizing the nearness of death and struggling
to hold it back, the other praying for time--two men went through the
amazing process of trading their identities. From the beginning it was
Conniston's fight. And Keith, looking at him, knew that in this last
mighty effort to die game the Englishman was narrowing the slight
margin of hours ahead of him. Keith had loved but one man, his father.
In this fight he learned to love another, Conniston. And once he cried
out bitterly that it was unfair, that Conniston should live and he
should die. The dying Englishman smiled and laid a hand on his, and
Keith felt that the hand was damp with a cold sweat.

Through the terrible hours that followed Keith felt the strength and
courage of the dying man becoming slowly a part of himself. The thing
was epic. Conniston, throttling his own agony, was magnificent. And
Keith felt his warped and despairing soul swelling with a new life and
a new hope, and he was thrilled by the thought of what he must do to
live up to the mark of the Englishman. Conniston's story was of the
important things first. It began with his acquaintance with McDowell.
And then, between the paroxysms that stained his lips red, he filled in
with incident and smiled wanly as he told how McDowell had sworn him to
secrecy once in the matter of an incident which the chief did not want
the barracks to know--and laugh over. A very sensitive man in some ways
was McDowell! At the end of the first hour Keith stood up in the middle
of the floor, and with his arms resting on the table and his shoulders
sagging Conniston put him through the drill. After that he gave Keith
his worn Service Manual and commanded him to study while he rested.
Keith helped him to his bunk, and for a time after that tried to read
the Service book. But his eyes blurred, and his brain refused to obey.
The agony in the Englishman's low breathing oppressed him with a
physical pain. Keith felt himself choking and rose at last from the
table and went out into the gray, ghostly twilight of the night.

His lungs drank in the ice-tanged air. But it was not cold.
Kwaske-hoo--the change--had come. The air was filled with the tumult of
the last fight of winter against the invasion of spring, and the forces
of winter were crumbling. The earth under Keith's feet trembled in the
mighty throes of their dissolution. He could hear more clearly the roar
and snarl and rending thunder of the great fields of ice as they swept
down with the arctic current into Hudson's Bay. Over him hovered a
strange night. It was not black but a weird and wraith-like gray, and
out of this sepulchral chaos came strange sounds and the moaning of a
wind high up. A little while longer, Keith thought, and the thing would
have driven him mad. Even now he fancied he heard the screaming and
wailing of voices far up under the hidden stars. More than once in the
past months he had listened to the sobbing of little children, the
agony of weeping women, and the taunting of wind voices that were
either tormenting or crying out in a ghoulish triumph; and more than
once in those months he had seen Eskimos--born in that hell but driven
mad in the torture of its long night--rend the clothes from their
bodies and plunge naked out into the pitiless gloom and cold to die.
Conniston would never know how near the final breakdown his brain had
been in that hour when he made him a prisoner. And Keith had not told
him. The man-hunter bad saved him from going mad. But Keith had kept
that secret to himself.

Even now he shrank down as a blast of wind shot out of the chaos above
and smote the cabin with a shriek that had in it a peculiarly
penetrating note. And then he squared his shoulders and laughed, and
the yapping of the foxes no longer filled him with a shuddering
torment. Beyond them he was seeing home. God's country! Green forests
and waters spattered with golden sun--things he had almost forgotten;
once more the faces of women who were white. And with those faces he
heard the voice of his people and the song of birds and felt under his
feet the velvety touch of earth that was bathed in the aroma of
flowers. Yes, he had almost forgotten those things. Yesterday they had
been with him only as moldering skeletons--phantasmal
dream-things--because he was going mad, but now they were real, they
were just off there to the south, and he was going to them. He
stretched up his arms, and a cry rose out of his throat. It was of
triumph, of final exaltation. Three years of THAT--and he had lived
through it! Three years of dodging from burrow to burrow, just as
Conniston had said, like a hunted fox; three years of starvation, of
freezing, of loneliness so great that his soul had broken--and now he
was going home!

He turned again to the cabin, and when he entered the pale face of the
dying Englishman greeted him from the dim glow of the yellow light at
the table. And Conniston was smiling in a quizzical, distressed sort of
way, with a hand at his chest. His open watch on the table pointed to
the hour of midnight when the lesson went on.

Still later he heated the muzzle of his revolver in the flame of the
seal-oil.

"It will hurt, old chap--putting this scar over your eye. But it's got
to be done. I say, won't it be a ripping joke on McDowell?" Softly he
repeated it, smiling into Keith's eyes. "A ripping joke--on McDowell!"



III

Dawn--the dusk of another night--and Keith raised his haggard face from
Conniston's bedside with a woman's sob on his lips. The Englishman had
died as he knew that he would die, game to the last threadbare breath
that came out of his body. For with this last breath he whispered the
words which he had repeated a dozen times before, "Remember, old chap,
you win or lose the moment McDowell first sets his eyes on you!" And
then, with a strange kind of sob in his chest, he was gone, and Keith's
eyes were blinded by the miracle of a hot flood of tears, and there
rose in him a mighty pride in the name of Derwent Conniston.

It was his name now. John Keith was dead. It was Derwent Conniston who
was living. And as he looked down into the cold, still face of the
heroic Englishman, the thing did not seem so strange to him after all.
It would not be difficult to bear Conniston's name; the difficulty
would be in living up to the Conniston code.

That night the rumble of the ice fields was clearer because there was
no wind to deaden their tumult. The sky was cloudless, and the stars
were like glaring, yellow eyes peering through holes in a vast,
overhanging curtain of jet black. Keith, out to fill his lungs with
air, looked up at the phenomenon of the polar night and shuddered. The
stars were like living things, and they were looking at him. Under
their sinister glow the foxes were holding high carnival. It seemed to
Keith that they had drawn a closer circle about the cabin and that
there was a different note in their yapping now, a note that was more
persistent, more horrible. Conniston had foreseen that closing-in of
the little white beasts of the night, and Keith, reentering the cabin,
set about the fulfillment of his promise. Ghostly dawn found his task
completed.

Half an hour later he stood in the edge of the scrub timber that rimmed
in the arctic plain, and looked for the last time upon the little cabin
under the floor of which the Englishman was buried. It stood there
splendidly unafraid in its terrible loneliness, a proud monument to a
dead man's courage and a dead man's soul. Within its four walls it
treasured a thing which gave to it at last a reason for being, a reason
for fighting against dissolution as long as one log could hold upon
another. Conniston's spirit had become a living part of it, and the
foxes might yap everlastingly, and the winds howl, and winter follow
winter, and long night follow long night--and it would stand there in
its pride fighting to the last, a memorial to Derwent Conniston, the
Englishman.

Looking back at it, Keith bared his head in the raw dawn. "God bless
you, Conniston," he whispered, and turned slowly away and into the
south.

Ahead of him was eight hundred miles of wilderness--eight hundred miles
between him and the little town on the Saskatchewan where McDowell
commanded Division of the Royal Mounted. The thought of distance did
not appall him. Four years at the top of the earth had accustomed him
to the illimitable and had inured him to the lack of things. That
winter Conniston had followed him with the tenacity of a ferret for a
thousand miles along the rim of the Arctic, and it had been a miracle
that he had not killed the Englishman. A score of times he might have
ended the exciting chase without staining his own hands. His Eskimo
friends would have performed the deed at a word. But he had let the
Englishman live, and Conniston, dead, was sending him back home. Eight
hundred miles was but the step between.

He had no dogs or sledge. His own team had given up the ghost long ago,
and a treacherous Kogmollock from the Roes Welcome had stolen the
Englishman's outfit in the last lap of their race down from Fullerton's
Point. What he carried was Conniston's, with the exception of his rifle
and his own parka and hood. He even wore Conniston's watch. His pack
was light. The chief articles it contained were a little flour, a
three-pound tent, a sleeping-bag, and certain articles of
identification to prove the death of John Keith, the outlaw. Hour after
hour of that first day the zip, zip, zip of his snowshoes beat with
deadly monotony upon his brain. He could not think. Time and again it
seemed to him that something was pulling him back, and always he was
hearing Conniston's voice and seeing Conniston's face in the gray gloom
of the day about him. He passed through the slim finger of scrub timber
that a strange freak of nature had flung across the plain, and once
more was a moving speck in a wide and wind-swept barren. In the
afternoon he made out a dark rim on the southern horizon and knew it
was timber, real timber, the first he had seen since that day, a year
and a half ago, when the last of the Mackenzie River forest had faded
away behind him! It gave him, at last, something tangible to grip. It
was a thing beckoning to him, a sentient, living wall beyond which was
his other world. The eight hundred miles meant less to him than the
space between himself and that growing, black rim on the horizon.

He reached it as the twilight of the day was dissolving into the deeper
dusk of the night, and put up his tent in the shelter of a clump of
gnarled and storm-beaten spruce. Then he gathered wood and built
himself a fire. He did not count the sticks as he had counted them for
eighteen months. He was wasteful, prodigal. He had traveled forty miles
since morning but he felt no exhaustion. He gathered wood until he had
a great pile of it, and the flames of his fire leaped higher and higher
until the spruce needles crackled and hissed over his head. He boiled a
pot of weak tea and made a supper of caribou meat and a bit of bannock.
Then he sat with his back to a tree and stared into the flames.

The fire leaping and crackling before his eyes was like a powerful
medicine. It stirred things that had lain dormant within him. It
consumed the heavy dross of four years of stupefying torture and
brought back to him vividly the happenings of a yesterday that had
dragged itself on like a century. All at once he seemed unburdened of
shackles that had weighted him down to the point of madness. Every
fiber in his body responded to that glorious roar of the fire; a thing
seemed to snap in his head, freeing it of an oppressive bondage, and in
the heart of the flames he saw home, and hope, and life--the things
familiar and precious long ago, which the scourge of the north had
almost beaten dead in his memory. He saw the broad Saskatchewan
shimmering its way through the yellow plains, banked in by the
foothills and the golden mists of morning dawn; he saw his home town
clinging to its shore on one side and with its back against the purple
wilderness on the other; he heard the rhythmic chug, chug, chug of the
old gold dredge and the rattle of its chains as it devoured its tons of
sand for a few grains of treasure; over him there were lacy clouds in a
blue heaven again, he heard the sound of voices, the tread of feet,
laughter--life. His soul reborn, he rose to his feet and stretched his
arms until the muscles snapped. No, they would not know him back
there--now! He laughed softly as he thought of the old John
Keith--"Johnny" they used to call him up and down the few
balsam-scented streets--his father's right-hand man mentally but a
little off feed, as his chum, Reddy McTabb, used to say, when it came
to the matter of muscle and brawn. He could look back on things without
excitement now. Even hatred had burned itself out, and he found himself
wondering if old Judge Kirkstone's house looked the same on the top of
the hill, and if Miriam Kirkstone had come back to live there after
that terrible night when he had returned to avenge his father.

Four years! It was not so very long, though the years had seemed like a
lifetime to him. There would not be many changes. Everything would be
the same--everything--except--the old home. That home he and his father
had planned, and they had overseen the building of it, a chateau of
logs a little distance from the town, with the Saskatchewan sweeping
below it and the forest at its doors. Masterless, it must have seen
changes in those four years. Fumbling in his pocket, his fingers
touched Conniston's watch. He drew it out and let the firelight play on
the open dial. It was ten o'clock. In the back of the premier half of
the case Conniston had at some time or another pasted a picture. It
must have been a long time ago, for the face was faded and indistinct.
The eyes alone were undimmed, and in the flash of the fire they took on
a living glow as they looked at Keith. It was the face of a young
girl--a schoolgirl, Keith thought, of ten or twelve. Yet the eyes
seemed older; they seemed pleading with someone, speaking a message
that had come spontaneously out of the soul of the child. Keith closed
the watch. Its tick, tick, tick rose louder to his ears. He dropped it
in his pocket. He could still hear it.

A pitch-filled spruce knot exploded with the startling vividness of a
star bomb, and with it came a dull sort of mental shock to Keith. He
was sure that for an instant he had seen Conniston's face and that the
Englishman's eyes were looking at him as the eyes had looked at him out
of the face in the watch. The deception was so real that it sent him
back a step, staring, and then, his eyes striving to catch the illusion
again, there fell upon him a realization of the tremendous strain he
had been under for many hours. It had been days since he had slept
soundly. Yet he was not sleepy now; he scarcely felt fatigue. The
instinct of self-preservation made him arrange his sleeping-bag on a
carpet of spruce boughs in the tent and go to bed.

Even then, for a long time, he lay in the grip of a harrowing
wakefulness. He closed his eyes, but it was impossible for him to hold
them closed. The sounds of the night came to him with painful
distinctness--the crackling of the fire, the serpent-like hiss of the
flaming pitch, the whispering of the tree tops, and the steady tick,
tick, tick of Conniston's watch. And out on the barren, through the rim
of sheltering trees, the wind was beginning to moan its everlasting
whimper and sob of loneliness. In spite of his clenched hands and his
fighting determination to hold it off, Keith fancied that he heard
again--riding strangely in that wind--the sound of Conniston's voice.
And suddenly he asked himself: What did it mean? What was it that
Conniston had forgotten? What was it that Conniston had been trying to
tell him all that day, when he had felt the presence of him in the
gloom of the Barrens? Was it that Conniston wanted him to come back?

He tried to rid himself of the depressing insistence of that thought.
And yet he was certain that in the last half-hour before death entered
the cabin the Englishman had wanted to tell him something and had
crucified the desire. There was the triumph of an iron courage in those
last words, "Remember, old chap, you win or lose the moment McDowell
first sets his eyes on you!"--but in the next instant, as death sent
home its thrust, Keith had caught a glimpse of Conniston's naked soul,
and in that final moment when speech was gone forever, he knew that
Conniston was fighting to make his lips utter words which he had left
unspoken until too late. And Keith, listening to the moaning of the
wind and the crackling of the fire, found himself repeating over and
over again, "What was it he wanted to say?"

In a lull in the wind Conniston's watch seemed to beat like a heart in
its case, and swiftly its tick, tick, ticked to his ears an answer,
"Come back, come back, come back!"

With a cry at his own pitiable weakness, Keith thrust the thing far
under his sleeping-bag, and there its sound was smothered. At last
sleep overcame him like a restless anesthesia.

With the break of another day he came out of his tent and stirred the
fire. There were still bits of burning ember, and these he fanned into
life and added to their flame fresh fuel. He could not easily forget
last night's torture, but its significance was gone. He laughed at his
own folly and wondered what Conniston himself would have thought of his
nervousness. For the first time in years he thought of the old days
down at college where, among other things, he had made a mark for
himself in psychology. He had considered himself an expert in the
discussion and understanding of phenomena of the mind. Afterward he had
lived up to the mark and had profited by his beliefs, and the fact that
a simple relaxation of his mental machinery had so disturbed him last
night amused him now. The solution was easy. It was his mind struggling
to equilibrium after four years of brain-fag. And he felt better. His
brain was clearer. He listened to the watch and found its ticking
natural. He braced himself to another effort and whistled as he
prepared his breakfast.

After that he packed his dunnage and continued south. He wondered if
Conniston ever knew his Manual as he learned it now. At the end of the
sixth day he could repeat it from cover to cover. Every hour he made it
a practice to stop short and salute the trees about him. McDowell would
not catch him there.

"I am Derwent Conniston," he kept telling himself. "John Keith is
dead--dead. I buried him back there under the cabin, the cabin built by
Sergeant Trossy and his patrol in nineteen hundred and eight. My name
is Conniston--Derwent Conniston."

In his years of aloneness he had grown into the habit of talking to
himself--or with himself--to keep up his courage and sanity. "Keith,
old boy, we've got to fight it out," he would say. Now it was,
"Conniston, old chap, we'll win or die." After the third day, he never
spoke of John Keith except as a man who was dead. And over the dead
John Keith he spread Conniston's mantle. "John Keith died game, sir,"
he said to McDowell, who was a tree. "He was the finest chap I ever
knew."

On this sixth day came the miracle. For the first time in many months
John Keith saw the sun. He had seen the murky glow of it before this,
fighting to break through the pall of fog and haze that hung over the
Barrens, but this sixth day it was the sun, the real sun, bursting in
all its glory for a short space over the northern world. Each day after
this the sun was nearer and warmer, as the arctic vapor clouds and
frost smoke were left farther behind, and not until he had passed
beyond the ice fogs entirely did Keith swing westward. He did not
hurry, for now that he was out of his prison, he wanted time in which
to feel the first exhilarating thrill of his freedom. And more than all
else he knew that he must measure and test himself for the tremendous
fight ahead of him.

Now that the sun and the blue sky had cleared his brain, he saw the
hundred pit-falls in his way, the hundred little slips that might be
made, the hundred traps waiting for any chance blunder on his part.
Deliberately he was on his way to the hangman. Down there--every day of
his life--he would rub elbows with him as he passed his fellow men in
the street. He would never completely feel himself out of the presence
of death. Day and night he must watch himself and guard himself, his
tongue, his feet, his thoughts, never knowing in what hour the eyes of
the law would pierce the veneer of his disguise and deliver his life as
the forfeit. There were times when the contemplation of these things
appalled him, and his mind turned to other channels of escape. And
then--always--he heard Conniston's cool, fighting voice, and the red
blood fired up in his veins, and he faced home.

He was Derwent Conniston. And never for an hour could he put out of his
mind the one great mystifying question in this adventure of life and
death, who was Derwent Conniston? Shred by shred he pieced together
what little he knew, and always he arrived at the same futile end. An
Englishman, dead to his family if he had one, an outcast or an
expatriate--and the finest, bravest gentleman he had ever known. It was
the WHYFORE of these things that stirred within him an emotion which he
had never experienced before. The Englishman had grimly and
determinedly taken his secret to the grave with him. To him, John
Keith--who was now Derwent Conniston--he had left an heritage of deep
mystery and the mission, if he so chose, of discovering who he was,
whence he had come--and why. Often he looked at the young girl's
picture in the watch, and always he saw in her eyes something which
made him think of Conniston as he lay in the last hour of his life.
Undoubtedly the girl had grown into a woman now.

Days grew into weeks, and under Keith's feet the wet, sweet-smelling
earth rose up through the last of the slush snow. Three hundred miles
below the Barrens, he was in the Reindeer Lake country early in May.
For a week he rested at a trapper's cabin on the Burntwood, and after
that set out for Cumberland House. Ten days later he arrived at the
post, and in the sunlit glow of the second evening afterward he built
his camp-fire on the shore of the yellow Saskatchewan.

The mighty river, beloved from the days of his boyhood, sang to him
again, that night, the wonderful things that time and grief had dimmed
in his heart. The moon rose over it, a warm wind drifted out of the
south, and Keith, smoking his pipe, sat for a long time listening to
the soft murmur of it as it rolled past at his feet. For him it had
always been more than the river. He had grown up with it, and it had
become a part of him; it had mothered his earliest dreams and
ambitions; on it he had sought his first adventures; it had been his
chum, his friend, and his comrade, and the fancy struck him that in the
murmuring voice of it tonight there was a gladness, a welcome, an
exultation in his return. He looked out on its silvery bars shimmering
in the moonlight, and a flood of memories swept upon him. Thirty years
was not so long ago that he could not remember the beautiful mother who
had told him stories as the sun went down and bedtime drew near. And
vividly there stood out the wonderful tales of Kistachiwun, the river;
how it was born away over in the mystery of the western mountains, away
from the eyes and feet of men; how it came down from the mountains into
the hills, and through the hills into the plains, broadening and
deepening and growing mightier with every mile, until at last it swept
past their door, bearing with it the golden grains of sand that made
men rich. His father had pointed out the deep-beaten trails of buffalo
to him and had told him stories of the Indians and of the land before
white men came, so that between father and mother the river became his
book of fables, his wonderland, the never-ending source of his
treasured tales of childhood. And tonight the river was the one thing
left to him. It was the one friend he could claim again, the one
comrade he could open his arms to without fear of betrayal. And with
the grief for things that once had lived and were now dead, there came
over him a strange sort of happiness, the spirit of the great river
itself giving him consolation.

Stretching out his arms, he cried: "My old river--it's me--Johnny
Keith! I've come back!"

And the river, whispering, seemed to answer him: "It's Johnny Keith!
And he's come back! He's come back!"



IV

For a week John Keith followed up the shores of the Saskatchewan. It
was a hundred and forty miles from the Hudson's Bay Company's post of
Cumberland House to Prince Albert as the crow would fly, but Keith did
not travel a homing line. Only now and then did he take advantage of a
portage trail. Clinging to the river, his journey was lengthened by
some sixty miles. Now that the hour for which Conniston had prepared
him was so close at hand, he felt the need of this mighty, tongueless
friend that had played such an intimate part in his life. It gave to
him both courage and confidence, and in its company he could think more
clearly. Nights he camped on its golden-yellow bars with the open stars
over his head when he slept; his ears drank in the familiar sounds of
long ago, for which he had yearned to the point of madness in his
exile--the soft cries of the birds that hunted and mated in the glow of
the moon, the friendly twit, twit, twit of the low-flying sand-pipers,
the hoot of the owls, and the splash and sleepy voice of wildfowl
already on their way up from the south. Out of that south, where in
places the plains swept the forest back almost to the river's edge, he
heard now and then the doglike barking of his little yellow friends of
many an exciting horseback chase, the coyotes, and on the wilderness
side, deep in the forest, the sinister howling of wolves. He was
traveling, literally, the narrow pathway between two worlds. The river
was that pathway. On the one hand, not so very far away, were the
rolling prairies, green fields of grain, settlements and towns and the
homes of men; on the other the wilderness lay to the water's edge with
its doors still open to him. The seventh day a new sound came to his
ears at dawn. It was the whistle of a train at Prince Albert.

There was no change in that whistle, and every nerve-string in his body
responded to it with crying thrill. It was the first voice to greet his
home-coming, and the sound of it rolled the yesterdays back upon him in
a deluge. He knew where he was now; he recalled exactly what he would
find at the next turn in the river. A few minutes later he heard the
wheezy chug, chug, chug of the old gold dredge at McCoffin's Bend. It
would be the Betty M., of course, with old Andy Duggan at the windlass,
his black pipe in mouth, still scooping up the shifting sands as he had
scooped them up for more than twenty years. He could see Andy sitting
at his post, clouded in a halo of tobacco smoke, a red-bearded,
shaggy-headed giant of a man whom the town affectionately called the
River Pirate. All his life Andy had spent in digging gold out of the
mountains or the river, and like grim death he had hung to the bars
above and below McCoffin's Bend. Keith smiled as he remembered old
Andy's passion for bacon. One could always find the perfume of bacon
about the Betty M., and when Duggan went to town, there were those who
swore they could smell it in his whiskers.

Keith left the river trail now for the old logging road. In spite of
his long fight to steel himself for what Conniston had called the
"psychological moment," he felt himself in the grip of an uncomfortable
mental excitement. At last he was face to face with the great gamble.
In a few hours he would play his one card. If he won, there was life
ahead of him again, if he lost--death. The old question which he had
struggled to down surged upon him. Was it worth the chance? Was it in
an hour of madness that he and Conniston had pledged themselves to this
amazing adventure? The forest was still with him. He could turn back.
The game had not yet gone so far that he could not withdraw his
hand--and for a space a powerful impulse moved him. And then, coming
suddenly to the edge of the clearing at McCoffin's Bend, he saw the
dredge close inshore, and striding up from the beach Andy Duggan
himself! In another moment Keith had stepped forth and was holding up a
hand in greeting.

He felt his heart thumping in an unfamiliar way as Duggan came on. Was
it conceivable that the riverman would not recognize him? He forgot his
beard, forgot the great change that four years had wrought in him. He
remembered only that Duggan had been his friend, that a hundred times
they had sat together in the quiet glow of long evenings, telling tales
of the great river they both loved. And always Duggan's stories had
been of that mystic paradise hidden away in the western mountains--the
river's end, the paradise of golden lure, where the Saskatchewan was
born amid towering peaks, and where Duggan--a long time ago--had
quested for the treasure which he knew was hidden somewhere there. Four
years had not changed Duggan. If anything his beard was redder and
thicker and his hair shaggier than when Keith had last seen him. And
then, following him from the Betsy M., Keith caught the everlasting
scent of bacon. He devoured it in deep breaths. His soul cried out for
it. Once he had grown tired of Duggan's bacon, but now he felt that he
could go on eating it forever. As Duggan advanced, he was moved by a
tremendous desire to stretch out his hand and say: "I'm John Keith.
Don't you know me, Duggan?" Instead, he choked back his desire and
said, "Fine morning!"

Duggan nodded uncertainly. He was evidently puzzled at not being able
to place his man. "It's always fine on the river, rain 'r shine.
Anybody who says it ain't is a God A'mighty liar!"

He was still the old Duggan, ready to fight for his river at the drop
of a hat! Keith wanted to hug him. He shifted his pack and said:

"I've slept with it for a week--just to have it for company--on the way
down from Cumberland House. Seems good to get back!" He took off his
hat and met the riverman's eyes squarely. "Do you happen to know if
McDowell is at barracks?" he asked.

"He is," said Duggan.

That was all. He was looking at Keith with a curious directness. Keith
held his breath. He would have given a good deal to have seen behind
Duggan's beard. There was a hard note in the riverman's voice, too. It
puzzled him. And there was a flash of sullen fire in his eyes at the
mention of McDowell's name. "The Inspector's there--sittin' tight," he
added, and to Keith's amazement brushed past him without another word
and disappeared into the bush.

This, at least, was not like the good-humored Duggan of four years ago.
Keith replaced his hat and went on. At the farther side of the clearing
he turned and looked back. Duggan stood in the open roadway, his hands
thrust deep in his pockets, staring after him. Keith waved his hand,
but Duggan did not respond. He stood like a sphinx, his big red beard
glowing in the early sun, and watched Keith until he was gone.

To Keith this first experiment in the matter of testing an identity was
a disappointment. It was not only disappointing but filled him with
apprehension. It was true that Duggan had not recognized him as John
Keith, BUT NEITHER HAD HE RECOGNIZED HIM AS DERWENT CONNISTON! And
Duggan was not a man to forget in three or four years--or half a
lifetime, for that matter. He saw himself facing a new and unexpected
situation. What if McDowell, like Duggan, saw in him nothing more than
a stranger? The Englishman's last words pounded in his head again like
little fists beating home a truth, "You win or lose the moment McDowell
first sets his eyes on you." They pressed upon him now with a deadly
significance. For the first time he understood all that Conniston had
meant. His danger was not alone in the possibility of being recognized
as John Keith; it lay also in the hazard of NOT being recognized as
Derwent Conniston.

If the thought had come to him to turn back, if the voice of fear and a
premonition of impending evil had urged him to seek freedom in another
direction, their whispered cautions were futile in the thrill of the
greater excitement that possessed him now. That there was a third hand
playing in this game of chance in which Conniston had already lost his
life, and in which he was now staking his own, was something which gave
to Keith a new and entirely unlooked-for desire to see the end of the
adventure. The mental vision of his own certain fate, should he lose,
dissolved into a nebulous presence that no longer oppressed nor
appalled him. Physical instinct to fight against odds, the inspiration
that presages the uncertainty of battle, fired his blood with an
exhilarating eagerness. He was anxious to stand face to face with
McDowell. Not until then would the real fight begin. For the first time
the fact seized upon him that the Englishman was wrong--he would NOT
win or lose in the first moment of the Inspector's scrutiny. In that
moment he could lose--McDowell's cleverly trained eyes might detect the
fraud; but to win, if the game was not lost at the first shot, meant an
exciting struggle. Today might be his Armageddon, but it could not
possess the hour of his final triumph.

He felt himself now like a warrior held in leash within sound of the
enemy's guns and the smell of his powder. He held his old world to be
his enemy, for civilization meant people, and the people were the
law--and the law wanted his life. Never had he possessed a deeper
hatred for the old code of an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth
than in this hour when he saw up the valley a gray mist of smoke rising
over the roofs of his home town. He had never conceded within himself
that he was a criminal. He believed that in killing Kirkstone he had
killed a serpent who had deserved to die, and a hundred times he had
told himself that the job would have been much more satisfactory from
the view-point of human sanitation if he had sent the son in the
father's footsteps. He had rid the people of a man not fit to live--and
the people wanted to kill him for it. Therefore the men and women in
that town he had once loved, and still loved, were his enemies, and to
find friends among them again he was compelled to perpetrate a clever
fraud.

He remembered an unboarded path from this side of the town, which
entered an inconspicuous little street at the end of which was a barber
shop. It was the barber shop which he must reach first He was glad that
it was early in the day when he came to the street an hour later, for
he would meet few people. The street had changed considerably. Long,
open spaces had filled in with houses, and he wondered if the
anticipated boom of four years ago had come. He smiled grimly as the
humor of the situation struck him. His father and he had staked their
future in accumulating a lot of "outside" property. If the boom had
materialized, that property was "inside" now--and worth a great deal.
Before he reached the barber shop he realized that the dream of the
Prince Albertites had come true. Prosperity had advanced upon them in
mighty leaps. The population of the place had trebled. He was a rich
man! And also, it occurred to him, he was a dead one--or would be when
he reported officially to McDowell. What a merry scrap there would be
among the heirs of John Keith, deceased!

The old shop still clung to its corner, which was valuable as "business
footage" now. But it possessed a new barber. He was alone. Keith gave
his instructions in definite detail and showed him Conniston's
photograph in his identification book. The beard and mustache must be
just so, very smart, decidedly English, and of military neatness, his
hair cut not too short and brushed smoothly back. When the operation
was over, he congratulated the barber and himself. Bronzed to the color
of an Indian by wind and smoke, straight as an arrow, his muscles
swelling with the brute strength of the wilderness, he smiled at
himself in the mirror when he compared the old John Keith with this new
Derwent Conniston! Before he went out he tightened his belt a notch.
Then he headed straight for the barracks of His Majesty's Royal
Northwest Mounted Police.

His way took him up the main street, past the rows of shops that had
been there four years ago, past the Saskatchewan Hotel and the little
Board of Trade building which, like the old barber shop, still hung to
its original perch at the edge of the high bank which ran precipitously
down to the river. And there, as sure as fate, was Percival Clary, the
little English Secretary! But what a different Percy!

He had broadened out and straightened up. He had grown a mustache,
which was immaculately waxed. His trousers were immaculately creased,
his shoes were shining, and he stood before the door of his now
important office resting lightly on a cane. Keith grinned as he
witnessed how prosperity had bolstered up Percival along with the town.
His eyes quested for familiar faces as he went along. Here and there he
saw one, but for the most part he encountered strangers, lively looking
men who were hustling as if they had a mission in hand. Glaring real
estate signs greeted him from every place of prominence, and
automobiles began to hum up and down the main street that stretched
along the river--twenty where there had been one not so long ago.

Keith found himself fighting to keep his eyes straight ahead when he
met a girl or a woman. Never had he believed fully and utterly in the
angelhood of the feminine until now. He passed perhaps a dozen on the
way to barracks, and he was overwhelmed with the desire to stop and
feast his eyes upon each one of them. He had never been a lover of
women; he admired them, he believed them to be the better part of man,
he had worshiped his mother, but his heart had been neither glorified
nor broken by a passion for the opposite sex. Now, to the bottom of his
soul, he worshiped that dozen! Some of them were homely, some of them
were plain, two or three of them were pretty, but to Keith their
present physical qualifications made no difference. They were white
women, and they were glorious, every one of them! The plainest of them
was lovely. He wanted to throw up his hat and shout in sheer joy. Four
years--and now he was back in angel land! For a space he forgot
McDowell.

His head was in a whirl when he came to barracks. Life was good, after
all. It was worth fighting for, and he was bound fight. He went
straight to McDowell's office. A moment after his knock on the door the
Inspector's secretary appeared.

"The Inspector is busy, sir," he said in response to Keith's inquiry.
"I'll tell him--"

"That I am here on a very important matter," advised Keith. " He will
admit me when you tell him that I bring information regarding a certain
John Keith."

The secretary disappeared through an inner door. It seemed not more
than ten seconds before he was back. "The Inspector will see you, sir."

Keith drew a deep breath to quiet the violent beating of his heart. In
spite of all his courage he felt upon him the clutch of a cold and
foreboding hand, a hand that seemed struggling to drag him back. And
again he heard Conniston's dying voice whispering to him, "REMEMBER,
OLD CHAP, YOU WIN OR LOSE THE MOMENT MCDOWELL FIRST SETS HIS EYES ON
YOU!"

Was Conniston right?

Win or lose, he would play the game as the Englishman would have played
it. Squaring his shoulders he entered to face McDowell, the cleverest
man-hunter in the Northwest.



V

Keith's first vision, as he entered the office of the Inspector of
Police, was not of McDowell, but of a girl. She sat directly facing him
as he advanced through the door, the light from a window throwing into
strong relief her face and hair. The effect was unusual. She was
strikingly handsome. The sun, giving to the room a soft radiance, lit
up her hair with shimmering gold; her eyes, Keith saw, were a clear and
wonderful gray--and they stared at him as he entered, while the poise
of her body and the tenseness of her face gave evidence of sudden and
unusual emotion. These things Keith observed in a flash; then he turned
toward McDowell.

The Inspector sat behind a table covered with maps and papers, and
instantly Keith was conscious of the penetrating inquisition of his
gaze. He felt, for an instant, the disquieting tremor of the criminal.
Then he met McDowell's eyes squarely. They were, as Conniston had
warned him, eyes that could see through boiler-plate. Of an indefinable
color and deep set behind shaggy, gray eyebrows, they pierced him
through at the first glance. Keith took in the carefully waxed gray
mustaches, the close-cropped gray hair, the rigidly set muscles of the
man's face, and saluted.

He felt creeping over him a slow chill. There was no greeting in that
iron-like countenance, for full a quarter-minute no sign of
recognition. And then, as the sun had played in the girl's hair, a new
emotion passed over McDowell's face, and Keith saw for the first time
the man whom Derwent Conniston had known as a friend as well as a
superior. He rose from his chair, and leaning over the table said in a
voice in which were mingled both amazement and pleasure:

"We were just talking about the devil--and here you are, sir!
Conniston, how are you?"

For a few moments Keith did not see. HE HAD WON! The blood pounded
through his heart so violently that it confused his vision and his
senses. He felt the grip of McDowell's hand; he heard his voice; a
vision swam before his eyes--and it was the vision of Derwent
Conniston's triumphant face. He was standing erect, his head was up, he
was meeting McDowell shoulder to shoulder, even smiling, but in that
swift surge of exultation he did not know. McDowell, still gripping his
hand and with his other hand on his arm, was wheeling him about, and he
found the girl on her feet, staring at him as if he had newly risen
from the dead.

McDowell's military voice was snapping vibrantly, "Conniston, meet Miss
Miriam Kirkstone, daughter of Judge Kirkstone!"

He bowed and held for a moment in his own the hand of the girl whose
father he had killed. It was lifeless and cold. Her lips moved, merely
speaking his name. His own were mute. McDowell was saying something
about the glory of the service and the sovereignty of the law. And
then, breaking in like the beat of a drum on the introduction, his
voice demanded, "Conniston--DID YOU GET YOUR MAN?"

The question brought Keith to his senses. He inclined his head slightly
and said, "I beg to report that John Keith is dead, sir."

He saw Miriam Kirkstone give a visible start, as if his words had
carried a stab. She was apparently making a strong effort to hide her
agitation as she turned swiftly away from him, speaking to McDowell.

"You have been very kind, Inspector McDowell. I hope very soon to have
the pleasure of talking with Mr. Conniston--about--John Keith."

She left them, nodding slightly to Keith.

When she was gone, a puzzled look filled the Inspector's eyes. "She has
been like that for the last six months," he explained. "Tremendously
interested in this man Keith and his fate. I don't believe that I have
watched for your return more anxiously than she has, Conniston. And the
curious part of it is she seemed to have no interest in the matter at
all until six months ago. Sometimes I am afraid that brooding over her
father's death has unsettled her a little. A mighty pretty girl,
Conniston. A mighty pretty girl, indeed! And her brother is a skunk.
Pst! You haven't forgotten him?"

He drew a chair up close to his own and motioned Keith to be seated.
"You're changed, Conniston!"

The words came out of him like a shot. So unexpected were they that
Keith felt the effect of them in every nerve of his body. He sensed
instantly what McDowell meant. He was NOT like the Englishman; he
lacked his mannerisms, his cool and superior suavity, the inimitable
quality of his nerve and sportsmanship. Even as he met the disquieting
directness of the Inspector's eyes, he could see Conniston sitting in
his place, rolling his mustache between his forefinger and thumb, and
smiling as though he had gone into the north but yesterday and had
returned today. That was what McDowell was missing in him, the soul of
Conniston himself--Conniston, the ne plus ultra of presence and amiable
condescension, the man who could look the Inspector or the High
Commissioner himself between the eyes, and, serenely indifferent to
Service regulations, say, "Fine morning, old top!" Keith was not
without his own sense of humor. How the Englishman's ghost must be
raging if it was in the room at the present moment! He grinned and
shrugged his shoulders.

"Were you ever up there--through the Long Night--alone?" he asked.
"Ever been through six months of living torture with the stars leering
at you and the foxes barking at you all the time, fighting to keep
yourself from going mad? I went through that twice to get John Keith,
and I guess you're right. I'm changed. I don't think I'll ever be the
same again. Something--has gone. I can't tell what it is, but I feel
it. I guess only half of me pulled through. It killed John Keith.
Rotten, isn't it?"

He felt that he had made a lucky stroke. McDowell pulled out a drawer
from under the table and thrust a box of fat cigars under his nose.

"Light up, Derry--light up and tell us what happened. Bless my soul,
you're not half dead! A week in the old town will straighten you out."

He struck a match and held it to the tip of Keith's cigar.

For an hour thereafter Keith told the story of the man-hunt. It was his
Iliad. He could feel the presence of Conniston as words fell from his
lips; he forgot the presence of the stern-faced man who was watching
him and listening to him; he could see once more only the long months
and years of that epic drama of one against one, of pursuit and flight,
of hunger and cold, of the Long Nights filled with the desolation of
madness and despair. He triumphed over himself, and it was Conniston
who spoke from within him. It was the Englishman who told how terribly
John Keith had been punished, and when he came to the final days in the
lonely little cabin in the edge of the Barrens, Keith finished with a
choking in his throat, and the words, "And that was how John Keith
died--a gentleman and a MAN!"

He was thinking of the Englishman, of the calm and fearless smile in
his eyes as he died, of his last words, the last friendly grip of his
hand, and McDowell saw the thing as though he had faced it himself. He
brushed a hand over his face as if to wipe away a film. For some
moments after Keith had finished, he stood with his back to the man who
he thought was Conniston, and his mind was swiftly adding twos and twos
and fours and fours as he looked away into the green valley of the
Saskatchewan. He was the iron man when he turned to Keith again, the
law itself, merciless and potent, by some miracle turned into the form
of human flesh.

"After two and a half years of THAT even a murderer must have seemed
like a saint to you, Conniston. You have done your work splendidly. The
whole story shall go to the Department, and if it doesn't bring you a
commission, I'll resign. But we must continue to regret that John Keith
did not live to be hanged."

"He has paid the price," said Keith dully.

"No, he has not paid the price, not in full. He merely died. It could
have been paid only at the end of a rope. His crime was atrociously
brutal, the culmination of a fiend's desire for revenge. We will wipe
off his name. But I can not wipe away the regret. I would sacrifice a
year of my life if he were in this room with you now. It would be worth
it. God, what a thing for the Service--to have brought John Keith back
to justice after four years!"

He was rubbing his hands and smiling at Keith even as he spoke. His
eyes had taken on a filmy glitter. The law! It stood there, without
heart or soul, coveting the life that had escaped it. A feeling of
revulsion swept over Keith.

A knock came at the door.

McDowell's voice gave permission, and the door slowly opened. Cruze,
the young secretary, thrust in his head.

"Shan Tung is waiting, sir," he said.

An invisible hand reached up suddenly and gripped at Keith's throat. He
turned aside to conceal what his face might have betrayed. Shan Tung!
He knew what it was now that had pulled him back, he knew why
Conniston's troubled face had traveled with him over the Barrens, and
there surged over him with a sickening foreboding, a realization of
what it was that Conniston had remembered and wanted to tell him--when
it was too late. THEY HAD FORGOTTEN SHAN TUNG, THE CHINAMAN!



VI

In the hall beyond the secretary's room Shan Tung waited. As McDowell
was the iron and steel embodiment of the law, so Shan Tung was the
flesh and blood spirit of the mysticism and immutability of his race.
His face was the face of an image made of an unemotional living tissue
in place of wood or stone, dispassionate, tolerant, patient. What
passed in the brain behind his yellow-tinged eyes only Shan Tung knew.
It was his secret. And McDowell had ceased to analyze or attempt to
understand him. The law, baffled in its curiosity, had come to accept
him as a weird and wonderful mechanism--a thing more than a
man--possessed of an unholy power. This power was the oriental's
marvelous ability to remember faces. Once Shan Tung looked at a face,
it was photographed in his memory for years. Time and change could not
make him forget--and the law made use of him.

Briefly McDowell had classified him at Headquarters. "Either an exiled
prime minister of China or the devil in a yellow skin," he had written
to the Commissioner. "Correct age unknown and past history a mystery.
Dropped into Prince Albert in 1908 wearing diamonds and patent leather
shoes. A stranger then and a stranger now. Proprietor and owner of the
Shan Tung Cafe. Educated, soft-spoken, womanish, but the one man on
earth I'd hate to be in a dark room with, knives drawn. I use him,
mistrust him, watch him, and would fear him under certain conditions.
As far as we can discover, he is harmless and law-abiding. But such a
ferret must surely have played his game somewhere, at some time."

This was the man whom Conniston had forgotten and Keith now dreaded to
meet. For many minutes Shan Tung had stood at a window looking out upon
the sunlit drillground and the broad sweep of green beyond. He was
toying with his slim hands caressingly. Half a smile was on his lips.
No man had ever seen more than that half smile illuminate Shan Tung's
face. His black hair was sleek and carefully trimmed. His dress was
immaculate. His slimness, as McDowell had noted, was the slimness of a
young girl.

When Cruze came to announce that McDowell would see him, Shan Tung was
still visioning the golden-headed figure of Miriam Kirkstone as he had
seen her passing through the sunshine. There was something like a purr
in his breath as he stood interlacing his tapering fingers. The instant
he heard the secretary's footsteps the finger play stopped, the purr
died, the half smile was gone. He turned softly. Cruze did not speak.
He simply made a movement of his head, and Shan Tung's feet fell
noiselessly. Only the slight sound made by the opening and closing of a
door gave evidence of his entrance into the Inspector's room. Shan Tung
and no other could open and close a door like that. Cruze shivered. He
always shivered when Shan Tung passed him, and always he swore that he
could smell something in the air, like a poison left behind.

Keith, facing the window, was waiting. The moment the door was opened,
he felt Shan Tung's presence. Every nerve in his body was keyed to an
uncomfortable tension. The thought that his grip on himself was
weakening, and because of a Chinaman, maddened him. And he must turn.
Not to face Shan Tung now would be but a postponement of the ordeal and
a confession of cowardice. Forcing his hand into Conniston's little
trick of twisting a mustache, he turned slowly, leveling his eyes
squarely to meet Shan Tung's.

To his surprise Shan Tung seemed utterly oblivious of his presence. He
had not, apparently, taken more than a casual glance in his direction.
In a voice which one beyond the door might have mistaken for a woman's,
he was saying to McDowell:

"I have seen the man you sent me to see, Mr. McDowell. It is Larsen. He
has changed much in eight years. He has grown a beard. He has lost an
eye. His hair has whitened. But it is Larsen." The faultlessness of his
speech and the unemotional but perfect inflection of his words made
Keith, like the young secretary, shiver where he stood. In McDowell's
face he saw a flash of exultation.

"He had no suspicion of you, Shan Tung?"

"He did not see me to suspect. He will be there--when--" Slowly he
faced Keith. "--When Mr. Conniston goes to arrest him," he finished.

He inclined his head as he backed noiselessly toward the door. His
yellow eyes did not leave Keith's face. In them Keith fancied that he
caught a sinister gleam. There was the faintest inflection of a new
note in his voice, and his fingers were playing again, but not as when
he had looked out through the window at Miriam Kirkstone. And then--in
a flash, it seemed to Keith--the Chinaman's eyes closed to narrow
slits, and the pupils became points of flame no larger than the
sharpened ends of a pair of pencils. The last that Keith was conscious
of seeing of Shan Tung was the oriental's eyes. They had seemed to drag
his soul half out of his body.

"A queer devil," said McDowell. "After he is gone, I always feel as if
a snake had been in the room. He still hates you, Conniston. Three
years have made no difference. He hates you like poison. I believe he
would kill you, if he had a chance to do it and get away with the
Business. And you--you blooming idiot--simply twiddle your mustache and
laugh at him! I'd feel differently if I were in your boots."

Inwardly Keith was asking himself why it was that Shan Tung had hated
Conniston.

McDowell added nothing to enlighten him. He was gathering up a number
of papers scattered on his desk, smiling with a grim satisfaction.
"It's Larsen all right if Shan Tung says so," he told Keith. And then,
as if he had only thought of the matter, he said, "You're going to
reenlist, aren't you, Conniston?"

"I still owe the Service a month or so before my term expires, don't I?
After that--yes--I believe I shall reenlist."

"Good!" approved the Inspector. "I'll have you a sergeancy within a
month. Meanwhile you're off duty and may do anything you please. You
know Brady, the Company agent? He's up the Mackenzie on a trip, and
here's the key to his shack. I know you'll appreciate getting under a
real roof again, and Brady won't object as long as I collect his thirty
dollars a month rent. Of course Barracks is open to you, but it just
occurred to me you might prefer this place while on furlough.
Everything is there from a bathtub to nutcrackers, and I know a little
Jap in town who is hunting a job as a cook. What do you say?"

"Splendid!" cried Keith. "I'll go up at once, and if you'll hustle the
Jap along, I'll appreciate it. You might tell him to bring up stuff for
dinner," he added.

McDowell gave him a key. Ten minutes later he was out of sight of
barracks and climbing a green slope that led to Brady's bungalow.

In spite of the fact that he had not played his part brilliantly, he
believed that he had scored a triumph. Andy Duggan had not recognized
him, and the riverman had been one of his most intimate friends.
McDowell had accepted him apparently without a suspicion. And Shan
Tung--

It was Shan Tung who weighed heavily upon his mind, even as his nerves
tingled with the thrill of success. He could not get away from the
vision of the Chinaman as he had backed through the Inspector's door,
the naming needle-points of his eyes piercing him as he went. It was
not hatred he had seen in Shan Tung's face. He was sure of that. It was
no emotion that he could describe. It was as if a pair of mechanical
eyes fixed in the head of an amazingly efficient mechanical monster had
focused themselves on him in those few instants. It made him think of
an X-ray machine. But Shan Tung was human. And he was clever. Given
another skin, one would not have taken him for what he was. The
immaculateness of his speech and manners was more than unusual; it was
positively irritating, something which no Chinaman should rightfully
possess. So argued Keith as he went up to Brady's bungalow.

He tried to throw off the oppression of the thing that was creeping
over him, the growing suspicion that he had not passed safely under the
battery of Shan Tung's eyes. With physical things he endeavored to
thrust his mental uneasiness into the background. He lighted one of the
half-dozen cigars McDowell had dropped into his pocket. It was good to
feel a cigar between his teeth again and taste its flavor. At the crest
of the slope on which Brady's bungalow stood, he stopped and looked
about him. Instinctively his eyes turned first to the west. In that
direction half of the town lay under him, and beyond its edge swept the
timbered slopes, the river, and the green pathways of the plains. His
heart beat a little faster as he looked. Half a mile away was a tiny,
parklike patch of timber, and sheltered there, with the river running
under it, was the old home. The building was hidden, but through a
break in the trees he could see the top of the old red brick chimney
glowing in the sun, as if beckoning a welcome to him over the tree
tops. He forgot Shan Tung; he forgot McDowell; he forgot that he was
John Keith, the murderer, in the overwhelming sea of loneliness that
swept over him. He looked out into the world that had once been his,
and all that he saw was that red brick chimney glowing in the sun, and
the chimney changed until at last it seemed to him like a tombstone
rising over the graves of the dead. He turned to the door of the
bungalow with a thickening in his throat and his eyes filmed by a mist
through which for a few moments it was difficult for him to see.

The bungalow was darkened by drawn curtains when he entered. One after
another he let them up, and the sun poured in. Brady had left his place
in order, and Keith felt about him an atmosphere of cheer that was a
mighty urge to his flagging spirits. Brady was a home man without a
wife. The Company's agent had called his place "The Shack" because it
was built entirely of logs, and a woman could not have made it more
comfortable. Keith stood in the big living-room. At one end was a
strong fireplace in which kindlings and birch were already laid,
waiting the touch of a match. Brady's reading table and his easy chair
were drawn up close; his lounging moccasins were on a footstool; pipes,
tobacco, books and magazines littered the table; and out of this
cheering disorder rose triumphantly the amber shoulder of a half-filled
bottle of Old Rye.

Keith found himself chuckling. His grin met the lifeless stare of a
pair of glass eyes in the huge head of an old bull moose over the
mantel, and after that his gaze rambled over the walls ornamented with
mounted heads, pictures, snowshoes, gun-racks and the things which went
to make up the comradeship and business of Brady's picturesque life.
Keith could look through into the little dining-room, and beyond that
was the kitchen. He made an inventory of both and found that McDowell
was right. There were nutcrackers in Brady's establishment. And he
found the bathroom. It was not much larger than a piano box, but the
tub was man's size, and Keith raised a window and poked his head out to
find that it was connected with a rainwater tank built by a genius,
just high enough to give weight sufficient for a water system and low
enough to gather the rain as it fell from the eaves. He laughed
outright, the sort of laugh that comes out of a man's soul not when he
is amused but when he is pleased. By the time he had investigated the
two bedrooms, he felt a real affection for Brady. He selected the
agent's room for his own. Here, too, were pipes and tobacco and books
and magazines, and a reading lamp on a table close to the bedside. Not
until he had made a closer inspection of the living-room did he
discover that the Shack also had a telephone.

By that time he noted that the sun had gone out. Driving up from the
west was a mass of storm clouds. He unlocked a door from which he could
look up the river, and the wind that was riding softly in advance of
the storm ruffled his hair and cooled his face. In it he caught again
the old fancy--the smells of the vast reaches of unpeopled prairie
beyond the rim of the forest, and the luring chill of the distant
mountain tops. Always storm that came down with the river brought to
him voice from the river's end. It came to him from the great mountains
that were a passion with him; it seemed to thunder to him the old
stories of the mightiest fastnesses of the Rockies and stirred in him
the child-bred yearning to follow up his beloved river until he came at
last to the mystery of its birthplace in the cradle of the western
ranges. And now, as he faced the storm, the grip of that desire held
him like a strong hand.

The sky blackened swiftly, and with the rumbling of far-away thunder he
saw the lightning slitting the dark heaven like bayonets, and the fire
of the electrical charges galloped to him and filled his veins. His
heart all at once cried out words that his lips did not utter. Why
should he not answer the call that had come to him through all the
years? Now was the time--and why should he not go? Why tempt fate in
the hazard of a great adventure where home and friends and even hope
were dead to him, when off there beyond the storm was the place of his
dreams? He threw out his arms. His voice broke at last in a cry of
strange ecstasy. Not everything was gone! Not everything was dead! Over
the graveyard of his past there was sweeping a mighty force that called
him, something that was no longer merely an urge and a demand but a
thing that was irresistible. He would go! Tomorrow--today--tonight--he
would begin making plans!

He watched the deluge as it came on with a roar of wind, a beating,
hissing wall under which the tree tops down in the edge of the plain
bent their heads like a multitude of people in prayer. He saw it
sweeping up the slope in a mass of gray dragoons. It caught him before
he had closed the door, and his face dripped with wet as he forced the
last inch of it against the wind with his shoulder. It was the sort of
storm Keith liked. The thunder was the rumble of a million giant
cartwheels rolling overhead.

Inside the bungalow it was growing dark as though evening had come. He
dropped on his knees before the pile of dry fuel in the fireplace and
struck a match. For a space the blaze smoldered; then the birch fired
up like oil-soaked tinder, and a yellow flame crackled and roared up
the flue. Keith was sensitive in the matter of smoking other people's
pipes, so he drew out his own and filled it with Brady's tobacco. It
was an English mixture, rich and aromatic, and as the fire burned
brighter and the scent of the tobacco filled the room, he dropped into
Brady's big lounging chair and stretched out his legs with a deep
breath of satisfaction. His thoughts wandered to the clash of the
storm. He would have a place like this out there in the mystery of the
trackless mountains, where the Saskatchewan was born. He would build it
like Brady's place, even to the rain-water tank midway between the roof
and the ground. And after a few years no one would remember that a man
named John Keith had ever lived.

Something brought him suddenly to his feet. It was the ringing of the
telephone. After four years the sound was one that roused with an
uncomfortable jump every nerve in his body. Probably it was McDowell
calling up about the Jap or to ask how he liked the place. Probably--it
was that. He repeated the thought aloud as he laid his pipe on the
table. And yet as his hand came in contact with the telephone, he felt
an inclination to draw back. A subtle voice whispered him not to
answer, to leave while the storm was dark, to go back into the
wilderness, to fight his way to the western mountains.

With a jerk he unhooked the receiver and put it to his ear.

It was not McDowell who answered him. It was not Shan Tung. To his
amazement, coming to him through the tumult of the storm, he recognized
the voice of Miriam Kirkstone!



VII

Why should Miriam Kirkstone call him up in an hour when the sky was
livid with the flash of lightning and the earth trembled with the roll
of thunder? This was the question that filled Keith's mind as he
listened to the voice at the other end of the wire. It was pitched to a
high treble as if unconsciously the speaker feared that the storm might
break in upon her words. She was telling him that she had telephoned
McDowell but had been too late to catch him before he left for Brady's
bungalow; she was asking him to pardon her for intruding upon his time
so soon after his return, but she was sure that he would understand
her. She wanted him to come up to see her that evening at eight
o'clock. It was important--to her. Would he come?

Before Keith had taken a moment to consult with himself he had replied
that he would. He heard her "thank you," her "good-by," and hung up the
receiver, stunned. So far as he could remember, he had spoken no more
than seven words. The beautiful young woman up at the Kirkstone mansion
had clearly betrayed her fear of the lightning by winding up her
business with him at the earliest possible moment. Why, then, had she
not waited until the storm was over?

A pounding at the door interrupted his thought. He went to it and
admitted an individual who, in spite of his water-soaked condition, was
smiling all over. It was Wallie, the Jap. He was no larger than a boy
of sixteen, and from eyes, ears, nose, and hair he was dripping
streams, while his coat bulged with packages which he had struggled to
protect, from the torrent through which he had forced his way up the
hill. Keith liked him on the instant. He found himself powerless to
resist the infection of Wallie's grin, and as Wallie hustled into the
kitchen like a wet spaniel, he followed and helped him unload. By the
time the little Jap had disgorged his last package, he had assured
Keith that the rain was nice, that his name was Wallie, that he
expected five dollars a week and could cook "like heaven." Keith
laughed outright, and Wallie was so delighted with the general outlook
that he fairly kicked his heels together. Thereafter for an hour or so
he was left alone in possession of the kitchen, and shortly Keith began
to hear certain sounds and catch occasional odoriferous whiffs which
assured him that Wallie was losing no time in demonstrating his divine
efficiency in the matter of cooking.

Wallie's coming gave him an excuse to call up McDowell. He confessed to
a disquieting desire to hear the inspector's voice again. In the back
of his head was the fear of Shan Tung, and the hope that McDowell might
throw some light on Miriam Kirkstone's unusual request to see her that
night. The storm had settled down into a steady drizzle when he got in
touch with him, and he was relieved to find there was no change in the
friendliness of the voice that came over the telephone. If Shan Tung
had a suspicion, he had kept it to himself.

To Keith's surprise it was McDowell who spoke first of Miss Kirkstone.

"She seemed unusually anxious to get in touch with you," he said. "I am
frankly disturbed over a certain matter, Conniston, and I should like
to talk with you before you go up tonight."

Keith sniffed the air. "Wallie is going to ring the dinner bell within
half an hour. Why not slip on a raincoat and join me up here? I think
it's going to be pretty good."

"I'll come," said McDowell. "Expect me any moment."

Fifteen minutes later Keith was helping him off with his wet slicker.
He had expected McDowell to make some observation on the cheerfulness
of the birch fire and the agreeable aromas that were leaking from
Wallie's kitchen, but the inspector disappointed him. He stood for a
few moments with his back to the fire, thumbing down the tobacco in his
pipe, and he made no effort to conceal the fact that there was
something in his mind more important than dinner and the cheer of a
grate.

His eyes fell on the telephone, and he nodded toward it. "Seemed very
anxious to see you, didn't she, Conniston? I mean Miss Kirkstone."

"Rather."

McDowell seated himself and lighted a match. "Seemed--a
little--nervous--perhaps," he suggested between puffs. "As though
something had happened--or was going to happen. Don't mind my
questioning you, do you, Derry?"

"Not a bit," said Keith. "You see, I thought perhaps you might
explain--"

There was a disquieting gleam in McDowell's eyes. "It was odd that she
should call you up so soon--and in the storm--wasn't it? She expected
to find you at my office. I could fairly hear the lightning hissing
along the wires. She must have been under some unusual impulse."

"Perhaps."

McDowell was silent for a space, looking steadily at Keith, as if
measuring him up to something.

"I don't mind telling you that I am very deeply interested in Miss
Kirkstone," he said. "You didn't see her when the Judge was killed. She
was away at school, and you were on John Keith's trail when she
returned. I have never been much of a woman's man, Conniston, but I
tell you frankly that up until six or eight months ago Miriam was one
of the most beautiful girls I have ever seen. I would give a good deal
to know the exact hour and date when the change in her began. I might
be able to trace some event to that date. It was six months ago that
she began to take an interest in the fate of John Keith. Since then the
change in her has alarmed me, Conniston. I don't understand. She has
betrayed nothing. But I have seen her dying by inches under my eyes.
She is only a pale and drooping flower compared with what she was. I am
positive it is not a sickness--unless it is mental. I have a suspicion.
It is almost too terrible to put into words. You will be going up there
tonight--you will be alone with her, will talk with her, may learn a
great deal if you understand what it is that is eating like a canker in
my mind. Will you help me to discover her secret?" He leaned toward
Keith. He was no longer the man of iron. There was something intensely
human in his face.

"There is no other man on earth I would confide this matter to," he
went on slowly. "It will take--a gentleman--to handle it, someone who
is big enough to forget if my suspicion is untrue, and who will
understand fully what sacrilege means should it prove true. It is
extremely delicate. I hesitate. And yet--I am waiting, Conniston. Is it
necessary to ask you to pledge secrecy in the matter?"

Keith held out a hand. McDowell gripped it tight.

"It is--Shan Tung," he said, a peculiar hiss in his voice. "Shan
Tung--and Miriam Kirkstone! Do you understand, Conniston? Does the
horror of it get hold of you? Can you make yourself believe that it is
possible? Am I mad to allow such a suspicion to creep into my brain?
Shan Tung--Miriam Kirkstone! And she sees herself standing now at the
very edge of the pit of hell, and it is killing her."

Keith felt his blood running cold as he saw in the inspector's face the
thing which he did not put more plainly in word. He was shocked. He
drew his hand from McDowell's grip almost fiercely.

"Impossible!" he cried. "Yes, you are mad. Such a thing would be
inconceivable!"

"And yet I have told myself that it is possible," said McDowell. His
face was returning into its iron-like mask. His two hands gripped the
arms of his chair, and he stared at Keith again as if he were looking
through him at something else, and to that something else he seemed to
speak, slowly, weighing and measuring each word before it passed his
lips. "I am not superstitious. It has always been a law with me to have
conviction forced upon me. I do not believe unusual things until
investigation proves them. I am making an exception in the case of Shan
Tung. I have never regarded him as a man, like you and me, but as a
sort of superphysical human machine possessed of a certain
psychological power that is at times almost deadly. Do you begin to
understand me? I believe that he has exerted the whole force of that
influence upon Miriam Kirkstone--and she has surrendered to it. I
believe--and yet I am not positive."

"And you have watched them for six months?"

"No. The suspicion came less than a month ago. No one that I know has
ever had the opportunity of looking into Shan Tung's private life. The
quarters behind his cafe are a mystery. I suppose they can be entered
from the cafe and also from a little stairway at the rear. One
night--very late--I saw Miriam Kirkstone come down that stairway. Twice
in the last month she has visited Shan Tung at a late hour. Twice that
I know of, you understand. And that is not all--quite."

Keith saw the distended veins in McDowell's clenched hands, and he knew
that he was speaking under a tremendous strain.

"I watched the Kirkstone home--personally. Three times in that same
month Shan Tung visited her there. The third time I entered boldly with
a fraud message for the girl. I remained with her for an hour. In that
time I saw nothing and heard nothing of Shan Tung. He was hiding--or
got out as I came in."

Keith was visioning Miriam Kirkstone as he had seen her in the
inspector's office. He recalled vividly the slim, golden beauty of her,
the wonderful gray of her eyes, and the shimmer of her hair as she
stood in the light of the window--and then he saw Shan Tung,
effeminate, with his sly, creeping hands and his narrowed eyes, and the
thing which McDowell had suggested rose up before him a monstrous
impossibility.

"Why don't you demand an explanation of Miss Kirkstone?" he asked.

"I have, and she denies it all absolutely, except that Shan Tung came
to her house once to see her brother. She says that she was never on
the little stairway back of Shan Tung's place."

"And you do not believe her?"

"Assuredly not. I saw her. To speak the cold truth, Conniston, she is
lying magnificently to cover up something which she does not want any
other person on earth to know."

Keith leaned forward suddenly. "And why is it that John Keith, dead and
buried, should have anything to do with this?" he demanded. "Why did
this 'intense interest' you speak of in John Keith begin at about the
same time your suspicions began to include Shan Tung?"

McDowell shook his head. "It may be that her interest was not so much
in John Keith as in you, Conniston. That is for you to
discover--tonight. It is an interesting situation. It has tragic
possibilities. The instant you substantiate my suspicions we'll deal
directly with Shan Tung. Just now--there's Wallie behind you grinning
like a Cheshire cat. His dinner must be a success."

The diminutive Jap had noiselessly opened the door of the little
dining-room in which the table was set for two.

Keith smiled as he sat down opposite the man who would have sent him to
the executioner had he known the truth. After all, it was but a step
from comedy to tragedy. And just now he was conscious of a bit of
grisly humor in the situation.



VIII

The storm had settled into a steady drizzle when McDowell left the
Shack at two o'clock. Keith watched the iron man, as his tall, gray
figure faded away into the mist down the slope, with a curious
undercurrent of emotion. Before the inspector had come up as his guest
he had, he thought, definitely decided his future action. He would go
west on his furlough, write McDowell that he had decided not to
reenlist, and bury himself in the British Columbia mountains before an
answer could get back to him, leaving the impression that he was going
on to Australia or Japan. He was not so sure of himself now. He found
himself looking ahead to the night, when he would see Miriam Kirkstone,
and he no longer feared Shan Tung as he had feared him a few hours
before. McDowell himself had given him new weapons. He was unofficially
on Shan Tung's trail. McDowell had frankly placed the affair of Miriam
Kirkstone in his hands. That it all had in some mysterious way
something to do with himself--John Keith--urged him on to the adventure.

He waited impatiently for the evening. Wallie, smothered in a great
raincoat, he sent forth on a general foraging expedition and to bring
up some of Conniston's clothes. It was a quarter of eight when he left
for Miriam Kirkstone's home.

Even at that early hour the night lay about him heavy and dark and
saturated with a heavy mist. From the summit of the hill he could no
longer make out the valley of the Saskatchewan. He walked down into a
pit in which the scattered lights of the town burned dully like distant
stars. It was a little after eight when he came to the Kirkstone house.
It was set well back in an iron-fenced area thick with trees and
shrubbery, and he saw that the porch light was burning to show him the
way. Curtains were drawn, but a glow of warm light lay behind them.

He was sure that Miriam Kirkstone must have heard the crunch of his
feet on the gravel walk, for he had scarcely touched the old-fashioned
knocker on the door when the door itself was opened. It was Miriam who
greeted him. Again he held her hand for a moment in his own.

It was not cold, as it had been in McDowell's office. It was almost
feverishly hot, and the pupils of the girl's eyes were big, and dark,
and filled with a luminous fire. Keith might have thought that coming
in out of the dark night he had startled her. But it was not that. She
was repressing something that had preceded him. He thought that he
heard the almost noiseless closing of a door at the end of the long
hall, and his nostrils caught the faint aroma of a strange perfume.
Between him and the light hung a filmy veil of smoke. He knew that it
had come from a cigarette. There was an uneasy note in Miss Kirkstone's
voice as she invited him to hang his coat and hat on an old-fashioned
rack near the door. He took his time, trying to recall where he had
detected that perfume before. He remembered, with a sort of shock. It
was after Shan Tung had left McDowell's office.

She was smiling when he turned, and apologizing again for making her
unusual request that day.

"It was--quite unconventional. But I felt that you would understand,
Mr. Conniston. I guess I didn't stop to think. And I am afraid of
lightning, too. But I wanted to see you. I didn't want to wait until
tomorrow to hear about what happened up there. Is it--so strange?"

Afterward he could not remember just what sort of answer he made. She
turned, and he followed her through the big, square-cut door leading
out of the hall. It was the same door with the great, sliding panel he
had locked on that fateful night, years ago, when he had fought with
her father and brother. In it, for a moment, her slim figure was
profiled in a frame of vivid light. Her mother must have been
beautiful. That was the thought that flashed upon him as the room and
its tragic memory lay before him. Everything came back to him vividly,
and he was astonished at the few changes in it. There was the big chair
with its leather arms, in which the overfatted creature who had been
her father was sitting when he came in. It was the same table, too, and
it seemed to him that the same odds and ends were on the mantel over
the cobblestone fireplace. And there was somebody's picture of the
Madonna still hanging between two windows. The Madonna, like the master
of the house, had been too fat to be beautiful. The son, an ogreish
pattern of his father, had stood with his back to the Madonna, whose
overfat arms had seemed to rest on his shoulders. He remembered that.

The girl was watching him closely when he turned toward her. He had
frankly looked the room over, without concealing his intention. She was
breathing a little unsteadily, and her hair was shimmering gloriously
in the light of an overhead chandelier. She sat down with that light
over her, motioning him to be seated opposite her--across the same
table from which he had snatched the copper weight that had killed
Kirkstone. He had never seen anything quite so steady, quite so
beautiful as her eyes when they looked across at him. He thought of
McDowell's suspicion and of Shan Tung and gripped himself hard. The
same strange perfume hung subtly on the air he was breathing. On a
small silver tray at his elbow lay the ends of three freshly burned
cigarettes.

"Of course you remember this room?"

He nodded. "Yes. It was night when I came, like this. The next day I
went after John Keith."

She leaned toward him, her hands clasped in front of her on the table.
"You will tell me the truth about John Keith?" she asked in a low,
tense voice. "You swear that it will be the truth?"

"I will keep nothing back from you that I have told Inspector
McDowell," he answered, fighting to meet her eyes steadily. "I almost
believe I may tell you more."

"Then--did you speak the truth when you reported to Inspector McDowell?
IS JOHN KEITH DEAD?" Could Shan Tung meet those wonderful eyes as he
was meeting them now, he wondered? Could he face them and master them,
as McDowell had hinted? To McDowell the lie had come easily to his
tongue. It stuck in his throat now. Without giving him time to prepare
himself the girl had shot straight for the bull's-eye, straight to the
heart of the thing that meant life or death to him, and for a moment he
found no answer. Clearly he was facing suspicion. She could not have
driven the shaft intuitively. The unexpectedness of the thing
astonished him and then thrilled him, and in the thrill of it he found
himself more than ever master of himself.

"Would you like to hear how utterly John Keith is dead and how he
died?" he asked.

"Yes. That is what I must know."

He noticed that her hands had closed. Her slender fingers were clenched
tight.

"I hesitate, because I have almost promised to tell you even more than
I told McDowell," he went on. "And that will not be pleasant for you to
hear. He killed your father. There can be no sympathy in your heart for
John Keith. It will not be pleasant for you to hear that I liked the
man, and that I am sorry he is dead."

"Go on--please."

Her hands unclasped. Her fingers lay limp. Something faded slowly out
of her face. It was as if she had hoped for something, and that hope
was dying. Could it be possible that she had hoped he would say that
John Keith was alive?

"Did you know this man?" he asked.

"This John Keith?"

She shook her head. "No. I was away at school for many years. I don't
remember him."

"But he knew you--that is, he had seen you," said Keith. "He used to
talk to me about you in those days when he was helpless and dying. He
said that he was sorry for you, and that only because of you did he
ever regret the justice he brought upon your father. You see I speak
his words. He called it justice. He never weakened on that point. You
have probably never heard his part of the story."

"No."

The one word forced itself from her lips. She was expecting him to go
on, and waited, her eyes never for an instant leaving his face.

He did not repeat the story exactly as he had told it to McDowell. The
facts were the same, but the living fire of his own sympathy and his
own conviction were in them now. He told it purely from Keith's point
of view, and Miriam Kirkstone's face grew whiter, and her hands grew
tense again, as she listened for the first time to Keith's own version
of the tragedy of the room in which they were sitting. And then he
followed Keith up into that land of ice and snow and gibbering Eskimos,
and from that moment he was no longer Keith but spoke with the lips of
Conniston. He described the sunless weeks and months of madness until
the girl's eyes seemed to catch fire, and when at last he came to the
little cabin in which Conniston had died, he was again John Keith. He
could not have talked about himself as he did about the Englishman. And
when he came to the point where he buried Conniston under the floor, a
dry, broken sob broke in upon him from across the table. But there were
no tears in the girl's eyes. Tears, perhaps, would have hidden from him
the desolation he saw there. But she did not give in. Her white throat
twitched. She tried to draw her breath steadily. And then she said:

"And that--was John Keith!"

He bowed his head in confirmation of the lie, and, thinking of
Conniston, he said:

"He was the finest gentleman I ever knew. And I am sorry he is dead."

"And I, too, am sorry."

She was reaching a hand across the table to him, slowly, hesitatingly.
He stared at her.

"You mean that?"

"Yes, I am sorry."

He took her hand. For a moment her fingers tightened about his own.
Then they relaxed and drew gently away from him. In that moment he saw
a sudden change come into her face. She was looking beyond him, over
his right shoulder. Her eyes widened, her pupils dilated under his
gaze, and she held her breath. With the swift caution of the man-hunted
he turned. The room was empty behind him. There was nothing but a
window at his back. The rain was drizzling against it, and he noticed
that the curtain was not drawn, as they were drawn at the other
windows. Even as he looked, the girl went to it and pulled down the
shade. He knew that she had seen something, something that had startled
her for a moment, but he did not question her. Instead, as if he had
noticed nothing, he asked if he might light a cigar.

"I see someone smokes," he excused himself, nodding at the cigarette
butts.

He was watching her closely and would have recalled the words in the
next breath. He had caught her. Her brother was out of town. And there
was a distinctly unAmerican perfume in the smoke that someone had left
in the room. He saw the bit of red creeping up her throat into her
cheeks, and his conscience shamed him. It was difficult for him not to
believe McDowell now. Shan Tung had been there. It was Shan Tung who
had left the hall as he entered. Probably it was Shan Tung whose face
she had seen at the window.

What she said amazed him. "Yes, it is a shocking habit of mine, Mr.
Conniston. I learned to smoke in the East. Is it so very bad, do you
think?"

He fairly shook himself. He wanted to say, "You beautiful little liar,
I'd like to call your bluff right now, but I won't, because I'm sorry
for you!" Instead, he nipped off the end of his cigar, and said:

"In England, you know, the ladies smoke a great deal. Personally I may
be a little prejudiced. I don't know that it is sinful, especially when
one uses such good judgment--in orientals." And then he was powerless
to hold himself back. He smiled at her frankly, unafraid. "I don't
believe you smoke," he added.

He rose to his feet, still smiling across at her, like a big brother
waiting for her confidence. She was not alarmed at the directness with
which he had guessed the truth. She was no longer embarrassed. She
seemed for a moment to be looking through him and into him, a strange
and yearning desire glowing dully in her eyes. He saw her throat
twitching again, and he was filled with an infinite compassion for this
daughter of the man he had killed. But he kept it within himself. He
had gone far enough. It was for her to speak. At the door she gave him
her hand again, bidding him good-night. She looked pathetically
helpless, and he thought that someone ought to be there with the right
to take her in his arms and comfort her.

"You will come again?" she whispered.

"Yes, I am coming again," he said. "Good-night."

He passed out into the drizzle. The door closed behind him, but not
before there came to him once more that choking sob from the throat of
Miriam Kirkstone.



IX

Keith's hand was on the butt of his revolver as he made his way through
the black night. He could not see the gravel path under his feet but
could only feel it. Something that was more than a guess made him feel
that Shan Tung was not far away, and he wondered if it was a
premonition, and what it meant. With the keen instinct of a hound he
was scenting for a personal danger. He passed through the gate and
began the downward slope toward town, and not until then did he begin
adding things together and analyzing the situation as it had
transformed itself since he had stood in the door of the Shack,
welcoming the storm from the western mountains. He thought that he had
definitely made up his mind then; now it was chaotic. He could not
leave Prince Albert immediately, as the inspiration had moved him a few
hours before. McDowell had practically given him an assignment. And
Miss Kirkstone was holding him. Also Shan Tung. He felt within himself
the sensation of one who was traveling on very thin ice, yet he could
not tell just where or why it was thin.

"Just a fool hunch," he assured himself.

"Why the deuce should I let a confounded Chinaman and a pretty girl get
on my nerves at this stage of the game? If it wasn't for McDowell--"

And there he stopped. He had fought too long at the raw edge of things
to allow himself to be persuaded by delusions, and he confessed that it
was John Keith who was holding him, that in some inexplicable way John
Keith, though officially dead and buried, was mixed up in a mysterious
affair in which Miriam Kirkstone and Shan Tung were the moving factors.
And inasmuch as he was now Derwent Conniston and no longer John Keith,
he took the logical point of arguing that the affair was none of his
business, and that he could go on to the mountains if he pleased. Only
in that direction could he see ice of a sane and perfect thickness, to
carry out the metaphor in his head. He could report indifferently to
McDowell, forget Miss Kirkstone, and disappear from the menace of Shan
Tung's eyes. John Keith, he repeated, would be officially dead, and
being dead, the law would have no further interest in him.

He prodded himself on with this thought as he fumbled his way through
darkness down into town. Miriam Kirkstone in her golden way was
alluring; the mystery that shadowed the big house on the hill was
fascinating to his hunting instincts; he had the desire, growing fast,
to come at grips with Shan Tung. But he had not foreseen these things,
and neither had Conniston foreseen them. They had planned only for the
salvation of John Keith's precious neck, and tonight he had almost
forgotten the existence of that unpleasant reality, the hangman. Truth
settled upon him with depressing effect, and an infinite loneliness
turned his mind again to the mountains of his dreams.

The town was empty of life. Lights glowed here and there through the
mist; now and then a door opened; down near the river a dog howled
forlornly. Everything was shut against him. There were no longer homes
where he might call and be greeted with a cheery "Good evening, Keith.
Glad to see you. Come in out of the wet." He could not even go to
Duggan, his old river friend. He realized now that his old friends were
the very ones he must avoid most carefully to escape self-betrayal.
Friendship no longer existed for him; the town was a desert without an
oasis where he might reclaim some of the things he had lost. Memories
he had treasured gave place to bitter ones. His own townfolk, of all
people, were his readiest enemies, and his loneliness clutched him
tighter, until the air itself seemed thick and difficult to breathe.
For the time Derwent Conniston was utterly submerged in the
overwhelming yearnings of John Keith.

He dropped into a dimly lighted shop to purchase a box of cigars. It
was deserted except for the proprietor. His elbow bumped into a
telephone. He would call up Wallie and tell him to have a good fire
waiting for him, and in the company of that fire he would do a lot of
thinking before getting into communication with McDowell.

It was not Wallie who answered him, and he was about to apologize for
getting the wrong number when the voice at the other end asked,

"Is that you, Conniston?"

It was McDowell. The discovery gave him a distinct shock. What could
the Inspector be doing up at the Shack in his absence? Besides, there
was an imperative demand in the question that shot at him over the
wire. McDowell had half shouted it.

"Yes, it's I," he said rather feebly.

"I'm down-town, stocking up on some cigars. What's the excitement?"

"Don't ask questions but hustle up here," McDowell fired back. "I've
got the surprise of your life waiting for you!"

Keith heard the receiver at the other end go up with a bang. Something
had happened at the Shack, and McDowell was excited. He went out
puzzled. For some reason he was in no great hurry to reach the top of
the hill. He was beginning to expect things to happen--too many
things--and in the stress of the moment he felt the incongruity of the
friendly box of cigars tucked under his arm. The hardest luck he had
ever run up against had never quite killed his sense of humor, and he
chuckled. His fortunes were indeed at a low ebb when he found a bit of
comfort in hugging a box of cigars still closer.

He could see that every room in the Shack was lighted, when he came to
the crest of the slope, but the shades were drawn. He wondered if
Wallie had pulled down the curtains, or if it was a caution on
McDowell's part against possible espionage. Suspicion made him transfer
the box of cigars to his left arm so that his right was free. Somewhere
in the darkness Conniston's voice was urging him, as it had urged him
up in the cabin on the Barren: "Don't walk into a noose. If it comes to
a fight, FIGHT!"

And then something happened that brought his heart to a dead stop. He
was close to the door. His ear was against it. And he was listening to
a voice. It was not Wallie's, and it was not the iron man's. It was a
woman's voice, or a girl's.

He opened the door and entered, taking swiftly the two or three steps
that carried him across the tiny vestibule to the big room. His
entrance was so sudden that the tableau in front of him was unbroken
for a moment. Birch logs were blazing in the fireplace. In the big
chair sat McDowell, partly turned, a smoking cigar poised in his
fingers, staring at him. Seated on a footstool, with her chin in the
cup of her hands, was a girl. At first, blinded a little by the light,
Keith thought she was a child, a remarkably pretty child with
wide-open, half-startled eyes and a wonderful crown of glowing, brown
hair in which he could still see the shimmer of wet. He took off his
hat and brushed the water from his eyes. McDowell did not move. Slowly
the girl rose to her feet. It was then that Keith saw she was not a
child. Perhaps she was eighteen, a slim, tired-looking, little thing,
wonderfully pretty, and either on the verge of laughing or crying.
Perhaps it was halfway between. To his growing discomfiture she came
slowly toward him with a strange and wonderful look in her face. And
McDowell still sat there staring.

His heart thumped with an emotion he had no time to question. In those
wide-open, shining eyes of the girl he sensed unspeakable tragedy--for
him. And then the girl's arms were reaching out to him, and she was
crying in that voice that trembled and broke between sobs and laughter:

"Derry, don't you know me? Don't you know me?"

He stood like one upon whom had fallen the curse of the dumb. She was
within arm's reach of him, her face white as a cameo, her eyes glowing
like newly-fired stars, her slim throat quivering, and her arms
reaching toward him.

"Derry, don't you know me? DON'T YOU KNOW ME?"

It was a sob, a cry. McDowell had risen. Overwhelmingly there swept
upon Keith an impulse that rocked him to the depth of his soul. He
opened his arms, and in an instant the girl was in them. Quivering, and
sobbing, and laughing she was on his breast. He felt the crush of her
soft hair against his face, her arms were about his neck, and she was
pulling his head down and kissing him--not once or twice, but again and
again, passionately and without shame. His own arms tightened. He heard
McDowell's voice--a distant and non-essential voice it seemed to him
now--saying that he would leave them alone and that he would see them
again tomorrow. He heard the door open and close. McDowell was gone.
And the soft little arms were still tight about his neck. The sweet
crush of hair smothered his face, and on his breast she was crying now
like a baby. He held her closer. A wild exultation seized upon him, and
every fiber in his body responded to its thrill, as tautly-stretched
wires respond to an electrical storm. It passed swiftly, burning itself
out, and his heart was left dead. He heard a sound made by Wallie out
in the kitchen. He saw the walls of the room again, the chair in which
McDowell had sat, the blazing fire. His arms relaxed. The girl raised
her head and put her two hands to his face, looking at him with eyes
which Keith no longer failed to recognize. They were the eyes that had
looked at him out of the faded picture in Conniston's watch.

"Kiss me, Derry!"

It was impossible not to obey. Her lips clung to him. There was love,
adoration, in their caress.

And then she was crying again, with her arms around him tight and her
face hidden against him, and he picked her up as he would have lifted a
child, and carried her to the big chair in front of the fire. He put
her in it and stood before her, trying to smile. Her hair had loosened,
and the shining mass of it had fallen about her face and to her
shoulders. She was more than ever like a little girl as she looked up
at him, her eyes worshiping him, her lips trying to smile, and one
little hand dabbing her eyes with a tiny handkerchief that was already
wet and crushed.

"You--you don't seem very glad to see me, Derry."

"I--I'm just stunned," he managed to say. "You see--"

"It IS a shocking surprise, Derry. I meant it to be. I've been planning
it for years and years and YEARS! Please take off your coat--it's
dripping wet!--and sit down near me, on that stool!"

Again he obeyed. He was big for the stool.

"You are glad to see me, aren't you, Derry?"

She was leaning over the edge of the big chair, and one of her hands
went to his damp hair, brushing it back. It was a wonderful touch. He
had never felt anything like it before in his life, and involuntarily
he bent his head a little. In a moment she had hugged it up close to
her.

"You ARE glad, aren't you, Derry? Say 'yes.'"

"Yes," he whispered.

He could feel the swift, excited beating of her heart.

"And I'm never going back again--to THEM," he heard her say, something
suddenly low and fierce in her voice. "NEVER! I'm going to stay with
you always, Derry. Always!"

She put her lips close to his ear and whispered mysteriously. "They
don't know where I am. Maybe they think I'm dead. But Colonel
Reppington knows. I told him I was coming if I had to walk round the
world to get here. He said he'd keep my secret, and gave me letters to
some awfully nice people over here. I've been over six months. And when
I saw your name in one of those dry-looking, blue-covered, paper books
the Mounted Police get out, I just dropped down on my knees and thanked
the good Lord, Derry. I knew I'd find you somewhere--sometime. I
haven't slept two winks since leaving Montreal! And I guess I really
frightened that big man with the terrible mustaches, for when I rushed
in on him tonight, dripping wet, and said, 'I'm Miss Mary Josephine
Conniston, and I want my brother,' his eyes grew bigger and bigger
until I thought they were surely going to pop out at me. And then he
swore. He said, "My Gawd, I didn't know he had a sister!'"

Keith's heart was choking him. So this wonderful little creature was
Derwent Conniston's sister! And she was claiming him. She thought he
was her brother!

"--And I love him because he treated me so nicely," she was saying. "He
really hugged me, Derry. I guess he didn't think I was away past
eighteen. And he wrapped me up in a big oilskin, and we came up here.
And--O Derry, Derry--why did you do it? Why didn't you let me know?
Don't you--want me here? "

He heard, but his mind had swept beyond her to the little cabin in the
edge of the Great Barren where Derwent Conniston lay dead. He heard the
wind moaning, as it had moaned that night the Englishman died, and he
saw again that last and unspoken yearning in Conniston's eyes. And he
knew now why Conniston's face had followed him through the gray gloom
and why he had felt the mysterious presence of him long after he had
gone. Something that was Conniston entered into him now. In the
throbbing chaos of his brain a voice was whispering, "She is yours, she
is yours."

His arms tightened about her, and a voice that was not unlike John
Keith's voice said: "Yes, I want you! I want you!"



X

For a space Keith did not raise his head. The girl's arms were about
him close, and he could feel the warm pressure of her cheek against his
hair. The realization of his crime was already weighing his soul like a
piece of lead, yet out of that soul had come the cry, "I want you--I
want you!" and it still beat with the voice of that immeasurable
yearning even as his lips grew tight and he saw himself the monstrous
fraud he was. This strange little, wonderful creature had come to him
from out of a dead world, and her lips, and her arms, and the soft
caress of her hands had sent his own world reeling about his head so
swiftly that he had been drawn into a maelstrom to which he could find
no bottom. Before McDowell she had claimed him. And before McDowell he
had accepted her. He had lived the great lie as he had strengthened
himself to live it, but success was no longer a triumph. There rushed
into his brain like a consuming flame the desire to confess the truth,
to tell this girl whose arms were about him that he was not Derwent
Conniston, her brother, but John Keith, the murderer. Something drove
it back, something that was still more potent, more demanding, the
overwhelming urge of that fighting force in every man which calls for
self-preservation.

Slowly he drew himself away from her, knowing that for this night at
least his back was to the wall. She was smiling at him from out of the
big chair, and in spite of himself he smiled back at her.

"I must send you to bed now, Mary Josephine, and tomorrow we will talk
everything over," he said. "You're so tired you're ready to fall asleep
in a minute."

Tiny, puckery lines came into her pretty forehead. It was a trick he
loved at first sight.

"Do you know, Derry, I almost believe you've changed a lot. You used to
call me 'Juddy.' But now that I'm grown up, I think I like Mary
Josephine better, though you oughtn't to be quite so stiff about it.
Derry, tell me honest--are you AFRAID of me?"

"Afraid of you!"

"Yes, because I'm grown up. Don't you like me as well as you did one,
two, three, seven years ago? If you did, you wouldn't tell me to go to
bed just a few minutes after you've seen me for the first time in all
those--those--Derry, I'm going to cry! I AM!"

"Don't," he pleaded. "Please don't!"

He felt like a hundred-horned bull in a very small china shop. Mary
Josephine herself saved the day for him by jumping suddenly from the
big chair, forcing him into it, and snuggling herself on his knees.

"There!" She looked at a tiny watch on her wrist. "We're going to bed
in two hours. We've got a lot to talk about that won't wait until
tomorrow, Derry. You understand what I mean. I couldn't sleep until
you've told me. And you must tell me the truth. I'll love you just the
same, no matter what it is. Derry, Derry, WHY DID YOU DO IT?"

"Do what?" he asked stupidly.

The delicious softness went out of the slim little body on his knees.
It grew rigid. He looked hopelessly into the fire, but he could feel
the burning inquiry in the girl's eyes. He sensed a swift change
passing through her. She seemed scarcely to breathe, and he knew that
his answer had been more than inadequate. It either confessed or
feigned an ignorance of something which it would have been impossible
for him to forget had he been Conniston. He looked up at her at last.
The joyous flush had gone out of her face. It was a little drawn. Her
hand, which had been snuggling his neck caressingly, slipped down from
his shoulder.

"I guess--you'd rather I hadn't come, Derry," she said, fighting to
keep a break out of her voice. "And I'll go back, if you want to send
me. But I've always dreamed of your promise, that some day you'd send
for me or come and get me, and I'd like to know WHY before you tell me
to go. Why have you hidden away from me all these years, leaving me
among those who you knew hated me as they hated you? Was it because you
didn't care? Or was it because--because--" She bent her head and
whispered strangely, "Was it because you were afraid?"

"Afraid?" he repeated slowly, staring again into the fire. "Afraid--"
He was going to add "Of what?" but caught the words and held them back.

The birch fire leaped up with a sudden roar into the chimney, and from
the heart of the flame he caught again that strange and all-pervading
thrill, the sensation of Derwent Conniston's presence very near to him.
It seemed to him that for an instant he caught a flash of Conniston's
face, and somewhere within him was a whispering which was Conniston's
voice. He was possessed by a weird and masterful force that swept over
him and conquered him, a thing that was more than intuition and greater
than physical desire. It was inspiration. He knew that the Englishman
would have him play the game as he was about to play it now.

The girl was waiting for him to answer. Her lips had grown a little
more tense. His hesitation, the restraint in his welcome of her, and
his apparent desire to evade that mysterious something which seemed to
mean so much to her had brought a shining pain into her eyes. He had
seen such a look in the eyes of creatures physically hurt. He reached
out with his hands and brushed back the thick, soft hair from about her
face. His fingers buried themselves in the silken disarray, and he
looked for a moment straight into her eyes before he spoke.

"Little girl, will you tell me the truth?" he asked. "Do I look like
the old Derwent Conniston, YOUR Derwent Conniston? Do I?"

Her voice was small and troubled, yet the pain was slowly fading out of
her eyes as she felt the passionate embrace of his fingers in her hair.
"No. You are changed."

"Yes, I am changed. A part of Derwent Conniston died seven years ago.
That part of him was dead until he came through that door tonight and
saw you. And then it flickered back into life. It is returning slowly,
slowly. That which was dead is beginning to rouse itself, beginning to
remember. See, little Mary Josephine. It was this!"

He drew a hand to his forehead and placed a finger on the scar. "I got
that seven years ago. It killed a half of Derwent Conniston, the part
that should have lived. Do you understand? Until tonight--"

Her eyes startled him, they were growing so big and dark and staring,
living fires of understanding and horror. It was hard for him to go on
with the lie. "For many weeks I was dead," he struggled on. "And when I
came to life physically, I had forgotten a great deal. I had my name,
my identity, but only ghastly dreams and visions of what had gone
before. I remembered you, but it was in a dream, a strange and haunting
dream that was with me always. It seems to me that for an age I have
been seeking for a face, a voice, something I loved above all else on
earth, something which was always near and yet was never found. It was
you, Mary Josephine, you!"

Was it the real Derwent Conniston speaking now? He felt again that
overwhelming force from within which was not his own. The thing that
had begun as a lie struck him now as a thing that was truth. It was he,
John Keith, who had been questing and yearning and hoping. It was John
Keith, and not Conniston, who had returned into a world filled with a
desolation of loneliness, and it was to John Keith that a beneficent
God had sent this wonderful creature in an hour that was blackest in
its despair. He was not lying now. He was fighting. He was fighting to
keep for himself the one atom of humanity that meant more to him than
all the rest of the human race, fighting to keep a great love that had
come to him out of a world in which he no longer had a friend or a
home, and to that fight his soul went out as a drowning man grips at a
spar on a sea. As the girl's hands came to his face and he heard the
yearning, grief-filled cry of his name on her lips, he no longer sensed
the things he was saying, but held her close in his arms, kissing her
mouth, and her eyes, and her hair, and repeating over and over again
that now he had found her he would never give her up. Her arms clung to
him. They were like two children brought together after a long
separation, and Keith knew that Conniston's love for this girl who was
his sister must have been a splendid thing. And his lie had saved
Conniston as well as himself. There had been no time to question the
reason for the Englishman's neglect--for his apparent desertion of the
girl who had come across the sea to find him. Tonight it was sufficient
that HE was Conniston, and that to him the girl had fallen as a
precious heritage.

He stood up with her at last, holding her away from him a little so
that he could look into her face wet with tears and shining with
happiness. She reached up a hand to his face, so that it touched the
scar, and in her eyes he saw an infinite pity, a luminously tender glow
of love and sympathy and understanding that no measurements could
compass. Gently her hand stroked his scarred forehead. He felt his old
world slipping away from under his feet, and with his triumph there
surged over him a thankfulness for that indefinable something that had
come to him in time to give him the strength and the courage to lie.
For she believed him, utterly and without the shadow of a suspicion she
believed him.

"Tomorrow you will help me to remember a great many things," he said.
"And now will you let me send you to bed, Mary Josephine?"

She was looking at the scar. "And all those years I didn't know," she
whispered. "I didn't know. They told me you were dead, but I knew it
was a lie. It was Colonel Reppington--" She saw something in his face
that stopped her.

"Derry, DON'T YOU REMEMBER?"

"I shall--tomorrow. But tonight I can see nothing and think of nothing
but you. Tomorrow--"

She drew his head down swiftly and kissed the brand made by the heated
barrel of the Englishman's pistol. "Yes, yes, we must go to bed now,
Derry," she cried quickly. "You must not think too much. Tonight it
must just be of me. Tomorrow everything will come out right,
everything. And now you may send me to bed. Do you remember--"

She caught herself, biting her lip to keep back the word.

"Tell me," he urged. "Do I remember what?"

"How you used to come in at the very last and tuck me in at night,
Derry? And how we used to whisper to ourselves there in the darkness,
and at last you would kiss me good-night? It was the kiss that always
made me go to sleep."

He nodded. "Yes, I remember," he said.

He led her to the spare room, and brought in her two travel-worn bags,
and turned on the light. It was a man's room, but Mary Josephine stood
for a moment surveying it with delight.

"It's home, Derry, real home," she whispered.

He did not explain to her that it was a borrowed home and that this was
his first night in it. Such unimportant details would rest until
tomorrow. He showed her the bath and its water system and then
explained to Wallie that his sister was in the house and he would have
to bunk in the kitchen. At the last he knew what he was expected to do,
what he must do. He kissed Mary Josephine good night. He kissed her
twice. And Mary Josephine kissed him and gave him a hug the like of
which he had never experienced until this night. It sent him back to
the fire with blood that danced like a drunken man's.

He turned the lights out and for an hour sat in the dying glow of the
birch. For the first time since he had come from Miriam Kirkstone's he
had the opportunity to think, and in thinking he found his brain
crowded with cold and unemotional fact. He saw his lie in all its naked
immensity. Yet he was not sorry that he had lied. He had saved
Conniston. He had saved himself. And he had saved Conniston's sister,
to love, to fight for, to protect. It had not been a Judas lie but a
lie with his heart and his soul and all the manhood in him behind it.
To have told the truth would have made him his own executioner, it
would have betrayed the dead Englishman who had given to him his name
and all that he possessed, and it would have dragged to a pitiless
grief the heart of a girl for whom the sun still continued to shine. No
regret rose before him now. He felt no shame. All that he saw was the
fight, the tremendous fight, ahead of him, his fight to make good as
Conniston, his fight to play the game as Conniston would have him play
it. The inspiration that had come to him as he stood facing the storm
from the western mountains possessed him again. He would go to the
river's end as he had planned to go before McDowell told him of Shan
Tung and Miriam Kirkstone. And he would not go alone. Mary Josephine
would go with him.

It was midnight when he rose from the big chair and went to his room.
The door was closed. He opened it and entered. Even as his hand groped
for the switch on the wall, his nostrils caught the scent of something
which was familiar and yet which should not have been there. It filled
the room, just as it had filled the big hall at the Kirkstone house,
the almost sickening fragrance of agallochum burned in a cigarette. It
hung like a heavy incense. Keith's eyes glared as he scanned the room
under the lights, half expecting to see Shan Tung sitting there waiting
for him. It was empty. His eyes leaped to the two windows. The shade
was drawn at one, the other was up, and the window itself was open an
inch or two above the sill. Keith's hand gripped his pistol as he went
to it and drew the curtain. Then he turned to the table on which were
the reading lamp and Brady's pipes and tobacco and magazines. On an
ash-tray lay the stub of a freshly burned cigarette. Shan Tung had come
secretly, but he had made no effort to cover his presence.

It was then that Keith saw something on the table which had not been
there before. It was a small, rectangular, teakwood box no larger than
a half of the palm of his hand. He had noticed Miriam Kirkstone's
nervous fingers toying with just such a box earlier in the evening.
They were identical in appearance. Both were covered with an exquisite
fabric of oriental carving, and the wood was stained and polished until
it shone with the dark luster of ebony. Instantly it flashed upon him
that this was the same box he had seen at Miriam's. She had sent it to
him, and Shan Tung had been her messenger. The absurd thought was in
his head as he took up a small white square of card that lay on top of
the box. The upper side of this card was blank; on the other side, in a
script as exquisite in its delicacy as the carving itself, were the
words:

"WITH THE COMPLIMENTS OF SHAN TUNG."

In another moment Keith had opened the box. Inside was a carefully
folded slip of paper, and on this paper was written a single line.
Keith's heart stopped beating, and his blood ran cold as he read what
it held for him, a message of doom from Shan Tung in nine words:

"WHAT HAPPENED TO DERWENT CONNISTON? DID YOU KILL HIM?"



XI

Stunned by a shock that for a few moments paralyzed every nerve center
in his body, John Keith stood with the slip of white paper in his
hands. He was discovered! That was the one thought that pounded like a
hammer in his brain. He was discovered in the very hour of his triumph
and exaltation, in that hour when the world had opened its portals of
joy and hope for him again and when life itself, after four years of
hell, was once more worth the living. Had the shock come a few hours
before, he would have taken it differently. He was expecting it then.
He had expected it when he entered McDowell's office the first time. He
was prepared for it afterward. Discovery, failure, and death were
possibilities of the hazardous game he was playing, and he was
unafraid, because he had only his life to lose, a life that was not
much more than a hopeless derelict at most. Now it was different. Mary
Josephine had come like some rare and wonderful alchemy to transmute
for him all leaden things into gold. In a few minutes she had upset the
world. She had literally torn aside for him the hopeless chaos in which
he saw himself struggling, flooding him with the warm radiance of a
great love and a still greater desire. On his lips he could feel the
soft thrill of her good-night kiss and about his neck the embrace of
her soft arms. She had not gone to sleep yet. Across in the other room
she was thinking of him, loving him; perhaps she was on her knees
praying for him, even as he held in his fingers Shan Tung's mysterious
forewarning of his doom.

The first impulse that crowded in upon him was that of flight, the
selfish impulse of personal salvation. He could get away. The night
would swallow him up. A moment later he was mentally castigating
himself for the treachery of that impulse to Mary Josephine. His
floundering senses began to readjust themselves.

Why had Shan Tung given him this warning? Why had he not gone straight
to Inspector McDowell with the astounding disclosure of the fact that
the man supposed to be Derwent Conniston was not Derwent Conniston, but
John Keith, the murderer of Miriam Kirkstone's father?

The questions brought to Keith a new thrill. He read the note again. It
was a definite thing stating a certainty and not a guess. Shan Tung had
not shot at random. He knew. He knew that he was not Derwent Conniston
but John Keith. And he believed that he had killed the Englishman to
steal his identity. In the face of these things he had not gone to
McDowell! Keith's eyes fell upon the card again. "With the compliments
of Shan Tung." What did the words mean? Why had Shan Tung written them
unless--with his compliments--he was giving him a warning and the
chance to save himself?

His immediate alarm grew less. The longer he contemplated the slip of
paper in his hand, the more he became convinced that the inscrutable
Shan Tung was the last individual in the world to stage a bit of
melodrama without some good reason for it. There was but one conclusion
he could arrive at. The Chinaman was playing a game of his own, and he
had taken this unusual way of advising Keith to make a getaway while
the going was good. It was evident that his intention had been to avoid
the possibility of a personal discussion of the situation. That, at
least, was Keith's first impression.

He turned to examine the window. There was no doubt that Shan Tung had
come in that way. Both the sill and curtain bore stains of water and
mud, and there was wet dirt on the floor. For once the immaculate
oriental had paid no attention to his feet. At the door leading into
the big room Keith saw where he had stood for some time, listening,
probably when McDowell and Mary Josephine were in the outer room
waiting for him. Suddenly his eyes riveted themselves on the middle
panel of the door. Brady had intended his color scheme to be old
ivory--the panel itself was nearly white--and on it Shan Tung had
written heavily with a lead pencil the hour of his presence, "10.45
P.M." Keith's amazement found voice in a low exclamation. He looked at
his watch. It was a quarter-hour after twelve. He had returned to the
Shack before ten, and the clever Shan Tung was letting him know in this
cryptic fashion that for more than three-quarters of an hour he had
listened at the door and spied upon him and Mary Josephine through the
keyhole.

Had even such an insignificant person as Wallie been guilty of that
act, Keith would have felt like thrashing him. It surprised himself
that he experienced no personal feeling of outrage at Shan Tung's frank
confession of eavesdropping. A subtle significance began to attach
itself more and more to the story his room was telling him. He knew
that Shan Tung had left none of the marks of his presence out of
bravado, but with a definite purpose. Keith's psychological mind was at
all times acutely ready to seize upon possibilities, and just as his
positiveness of Conniston's spiritual presence had inspired him to act
his lie with Mary Josephine, so did the conviction possess him now that
his room held for him a message of the most vital importance.

In such an emergency Keith employed his own method. He sat down,
lighted his pipe again, and centered the full resource of his mind on
Shan Tung, dissociating himself from the room and the adventure of the
night as much as possible in his objective analysis of the man. Four
distinct emotional factors entered into that analysis--fear, distrust,
hatred, personal enmity. To his surprise he found himself drifting
steadily into an unusual and unexpected mental attitude. From the time
he had faced Shan Tung in the inspector's office, he had regarded him
as the chief enemy of his freedom, his one great menace. Now he felt
neither personal enmity nor hatred for him. Fear and distrust remained,
but the fear was impersonal and the distrust that of one who watches a
clever opponent in a game or a fight. His conception of Shan Tung
changed. He found his occidental mind running parallel with the
oriental, bridging the spaces which otherwise it never would have
crossed, and at the end it seized upon the key. It proved to him that
his first impulse had been wrong. Shan Tung had not expected him to
seek safety in flight. He had given the white man credit for a larger
understanding than that. His desire, first of all, had been to let
Keith know that he was not the only one who was playing for big stakes,
and that another, Shan Tung himself, was gambling a hazard of his own,
and that the fraudulent Derwent Conniston was a trump card in that game.

To impress this upon Keith he had, first of all, acquainted him with
the fact that he had seen through his deception and that he knew he was
John Keith and not Derwent Conniston. He had also let him know that he
believed he had killed the Englishman, a logical supposition under the
circumstances. This information he had left for Keith was not in the
form of an intimidation. There was, indeed, something very near
apologetic courtesy in the presence of the card bearing Shan Tung's
compliments. The penciling of the hour on the panel of the door,
without other notation, was a polite and suggestive hint. He wanted
Keith to know that he understood his peculiar situation up until that
particular time, that he had heard and possibly seen much that had
passed between him and Mary Josephine. The partly opened window, the
mud and wet on curtains and floor, and the cigarette stubs were all to
call Keith's attention to the box on the table.

Keith could not but feel a certain sort of admiration for the Chinaman.
The two questions he must answer now were, What was Shan Tung's game?
and What did Shan Tung expect him to do?

Instantly Miriam Kirkstone flashed upon him as the possible motive for
Shan Tung's visit. He recalled her unexpected and embarrassing question
of that evening, in which she had expressed a suspicion and a doubt as
to John Keith's death. He had gone to Miriam's at eight. It must have
been very soon after that, and after she had caught a glimpse of the
face at the window, that Shan Tung had hurried to the Shack.

Slowly but surely the tangled threads of the night's adventure were
unraveling themselves for Keith. The main facts pressed upon him, no
longer smothered in a chaos of theory and supposition. If there had
been no Miriam Kirkstone in the big house on the hill, Shan Tung would
have gone to McDowell, and he would have been in irons at the present
moment. McDowell had been right after all. Miriam Kirkstone was
fighting for something that was more than her existence. The thought of
that "something" made Keith writhe and his hands clench. Shan Tung had
triumphed but not utterly. A part of the fruit of his triumph was still
just out of his reach, and the two--beautiful Miss Kirkstone and the
deadly Shan Tung--were locked in a final struggle for its possession.
In some mysterious way he, John Keith, was to play the winning hand.
How or when he could not understand. But of one thing he was convinced;
in exchange for whatever winning card he held Shan Tung had offered him
his life. Tomorrow he would expect an answer.

That tomorrow had already dawned. It was one o'clock when Keith again
looked at his watch. Twenty hours ago he had cooked his last camp-fire
breakfast. It was only eighteen hours ago that he had filled himself
with the smell of Andy Duggan's bacon, and still more recently that he
had sat in the little barber shop on the corner wondering what his fate
would be when he faced McDowell. It struck him as incongruous and
impossible that only fifteen hours had passed since then. If he
possessed a doubt of the reality of it all, the bed was there to help
convince him. It was a real bed, and he had not slept in a real bed for
a number of years. Wallie had made it ready for him. Its sh