 didn't care whether we belonged or not; the hand
that pulled the strings, and tangled them, jerked us into the mire
together anyhow--" "Oh, don't!" pleaded Deb. "Don't blaspheme like
that! What is religion for if not to keep us from making blunders, and
to help us to bear it when they are made--and to trust--to trust
where we cannot see--"

Deb was unused to preaching, and broke down; but her eyes were
sermons more impressive than any of the thousands that Mary had heard.

"Some day," said Mary, "when I get into a place where I cannot hear
religion spoken of, nor see it practised, I may learn the value of it.
I hope so. I have a chance of it now--the way is clear. I am through
the wood at last."

Deb drew her filmy handkerchief across her eyes.

"Yes, I know." Mary smiled at her sister's grief. "But it is only for
this once, Debbie dear. I did want to let you know--to have the
delight of not being a liar and a shuffler for once. I shall not say
such things again. I am not going to shock anybody else, for Bob's
sake. Bob, of course, must be considered; after all, it was his father.
None of us, even the freest, can be a free agent altogether; I
understand that. I shall hold my tongue. The blessed thing is that that
will be sufficient--a negative attitude, with the mouth shut; one is
not driven any longer to positive deceit, without even being able to
say that you can't help it. Oh, Debbie, you have been a free woman--
why, why didn't you keep so?--but with all your freedom, and all your
money, you don't know the meaning of such luxury as I live in now."

Deb gazed at her sister's rapt face, glowing in the firelight, and
wondered if the brain behind it could be altogether sane.

"To call that HAPPINESS!" she ejaculated, with sad irony and scorn.

"If you must fix a name to it--yes," the widow considered
thoughtfully.

"After all, 'unmiserable' does not go far enough. I AM happy. For,
Debbie"--turning to look into the dark, troubled eyes--"I'm
clean now--I never thought to be again--to know anything so
exquisitely sweet, either in earth or heaven--I'm clean, body and
soul, day and night, inside and outside, at last."

"Oh, POOR girl!" Deb moaned, with tears, when she realised what this
meant.

"Rich," corrected Mary--"rich, dear, with just a roof and a crust of
bread."

"Well," said Deb presently, "what about that roof and crust of bread?
Since we are telling each other everything, tell me what your resources
are. Don't say it is not my business; I know it isn't, but I shall be
wretched if you don't let me make it mine a little. How much have you?"

"I don't know. I don't care. I haven't given money a thought. It
doesn't matter."

"But it does matter. You can't even keep clean without a bathtub and a
bit of soap. But what am I thinking of?--of course, you will settle
all that with Bob."

The little word of three letters brought Mrs Goldsworthy down from her
clouds at once.

"Oh, no!" she cried quickly, almost fearfully. "On no account would I
interfere with his arrangements, his career. He would do everything
that was right and dutiful, I am sure, but I would sooner starve than
take charity from my own child. But there's no need to take it from
anybody. I have all I want."

"How much?"

"I couldn't tell you to a pound or two, but enough for my small wants."

"They do seem small, indeed. Where are you going to live? Won't you
come to me, Molly? Redford is big enough, and it's morally
yours as much as mine. You should have your own rooms--all the privacy
you like--"

"No, darling--thank you all the same. I have made my plans. I am going
to have a little cottage somewhere in the country, where there is no
dust, or smoke, or people--where I can walk on clean earth and grass,
and smell only trees and rain and the growing things. Alone? Oh, yes!
Of course, I shall see you sometimes--and my boy; but for a home--all
the home I can want or wish for now--that is my dream."

"I don't think," said Deb, "that I ever heard human ambition--and
happiness--expressed in such terms before." It was the final result of
Mary's experiment in the business of a woman's life.

Deb drove back to her hotel, thoughtful and sad and tired. When Rosalie
had left her for the night, she wrote to Claud by way of comforting
herself. She told him what she had been doing--described her
interviews with Rose and Mary respectively, and the impressions they
had left on her.

"Of all the four of us," she concluded her letter, "I am the only one
who has been fortunate in love. I found my mate in the beginning,
before there was time to make mistakes--the right man, whom I could
love in the right way--and we have been kept for each other through
all these years, although for a long time we did not know it. And now
we are together--or shall be in a few days--never to part again. It
is the only love-story in the family--I don't except Rose's, because I
don't call that a love-story--which has had a happy ending."




CHAPTER XXVIII.



Down the middle of the big T-shaped wool-shed, in two rows of six pens
each, with an aisle between them, the bleating sheep were massed. They
had been driven into that aisle and thus distributed, as a crowd of
soldiers might be packed into their pews at church, and twelve little
gates had then been shut upon them. Each gate had a corresponding one
at the opposite end of the pen, opening upon a broad lane of floor, and
facing a doorway into outside pens and the sunny paddocks of the
background. Between gate and door, on his own section of the boarded
lane, a sweating, bare-armed man with shears performed prodigies of
strength and skill. Every few minutes he snatched a heavy sheep from
the pen beside him, flung it with a round turn into a sitting posture
between his knees, and with the calm indifference to its violent
objections of the spider to those of the fly that he makes into a
parcel, sliced off its coat like a cook peeling a potato. The fleece
gently fell upon the floor, as you may see an unnoticed shawl slip from
an old lady's shoulders, and before it could realise what had happened,
the poor naked animal found itself shot through the doorway, to stagger
headlong down the sloping stage that was its returning path to freedom.
Twelve of these stalwart and strenuous operators, lining the long walls
at regular intervals, six a side, were at it with might and
main (payment by results being the rule in this department of
industry), and attendant boys strolled up and down, picking the fleeces
from the floor and carrying them to the sorter's table. One was the
tar-boy, whose business it was to dab a brushful of tar upon any
scarlet patch appearing upon a white under-coat where the shears had
clipped too close. The sorter or classer stood behind his long table,
above and at right angles to the lines of sheep-pens and shearers. Near
him on either hand were racks like narrow loose-boxes, built against
the walls; behind him the hydraulic press cranked and creaked as its
attendants fed and manipulated it, and the great bales, that others
were sewing up, weighing, and branding, were mounting high in the
transepts of the building--the two arms of the capital T. The air was
thick with woolly particles and the smell of sheep; the floor was dark
and slippery, and everything one touched humid with the impalpable
grease of the silky fleeces circulating all about the shed. Strict,
downright, dirty business was the order of the day.

The manager--Jim Urquhart, grey-bearded, in a battered felt hat and a
slouchy old tweed suit--stood by the sorter's table, his wide-ranging,
vigilant eye suddenly fixed upon it. As each fleece was brought up,
shaken out, trimmed, tested with thumb and finger, rolled into a light
bundle, inside out, and flung into one or another of the adjacent
racks, he followed the process as if it were something new to him. The
shade of difference in the texture of the staple of one fleece as
compared with another appeared of more concern to him than the absolute
difference, which seemed to shout for notice, between Deborah
Dalzell and the other features of the scene.

A snowy, lacy petticoat all but swept the greasy floor. An equally
spotless skirt, fresh from the laundry, gathered up in one strong
pendant hand, gleamed like light against its background of greasy
woodwork and greasy wool. The majestic figure of the lady of Redford
advanced towards him. Her lord strolled behind her. Often--but not for
many a long day--had the vision of her beautiful face come to Jim in
this fashion, a radiance upon prosaic business that it was not allowed
to interfere with; now, for the first time, his eye avoided, his heart
shrank from recognising it.

Then he lifted his gaze at last, for she was close beside him. And what
a ray of loving old-comradeship shone on him from those star-bright
orbs of hers, undulled by the years that had lightly frosted her dark
hair. She put out her hand, and held it out until he had apologised for
his greasy paw, and given it to her warm grasp.

"Why haven't you been to see me--to see us?" she asked him, smiling.
"Didn't you know we came home last night?"

"I thought you might be tired--or unpacking," Jim lamely excused
himself. "But whenever it is convenient to you, Deb--Mrs Dalzell--I
am always close by; I can come at any time."

He looked at her husband.

"Claud, you remember Jim?"

It was so many years since the men had met that the question was not
uncalled for. They nodded to each other, across the enormous gulf that
separated them, while Deb explained to her husband what an
invaluable manager she had. Jim had grown homelier and shabbier with
his advancing years; Claud more and more exquisitely finished, until he
now stood, in his carefully-careless costume--his short, pointed beard
the same tone of silver-grey as his flannel suit, his finely-chiselled
features the hue of old ivory--a perfect model of patrician 'form'.
Only there was plenty of vigour still manifest in the bushman's bony
frame, while the man of the world wore a valetudinarian air, leaning on
the arm of his regal, upright wife.

"Eh, isn't it like old times!" she mused aloud, as her eyes roamed
about the shed, where every sweating worker was finding time to gaze at
her. "I see some of the old faces--there's Harry Fox--and old David--
and isn't that Keziah's grandson? I must go and speak to them."

She left her husband at the sorter's table, that he and Jim might get
reacquainted--men never learned to know each other while women were in
the way--and it seemed to them both a long time before she came back.
Claud asked questions about the clip, and other matters of business;
and he criticised the manager's management.

"Rather behind the times--isn't it?--for a place like Redford. I
thought all the big stations sheared by machinery now."

"I've only been waiting for Miss--Mrs Dalzell's return to advise her
to have the machines," said Jim, scrupulous to give Deb's husband all
possible information.

"We must have them, of course. I believe in scientific methods."

Mr Dalzell did not ask Jim how his sisters were, and how his
brothers were getting on--did not remember that he had any. And when
Deb came back, to be gently but firmly ordered out of that dirty place
by her new lord and master, the latter failed to take, although he did
not fail to perceive, the hint of her eyes that Jim should be asked to
dinner.

"No," said he, linking his arm in hers as they left the shed, "no
outsiders, Debbie. I want you all to myself now."

And the words and tone were so sweet to her that she could not be sorry
for the possible hurt to Jim's feelings. She was young again today,
with her world-weary husband making love to her like this. That theory
of their having come together merely to keep each other warm on the
cold road to the grave was laughingly flung to the winds. She laid her
strong right hand on his, limp upon her arm, and expanded her deep
chest to the sunny morning air.

"Oh, Claud! Oh, isn't it wonderful, after all these years! You remember
that night--that night in the garden? The seat is there still--we
will go and sit on it tonight--"

"My dear, I dare not sit out after sunset, so subject as I am to
bronchitis."

"No, no, of course not--I forgot your bronchitis. This is the time for
you to be out--and this air will soon make another man of you, dear.
Isn't it a heavenly climate? Isn't it divine, this sun? Look here,
Claud, we've got some capital horses--or we had; I'll ask Jim. What do
you say to a ride--a long, lovely bush ride, like the old rides we
used to have together?"

Words cannot describe the pang that went through her when he
shook his head indifferently, and said he was too old for such violent
exercise now.

"Stuff!" she cried angrily.--

"Besides, I haven't been on a horse for so long that I shouldn't know
how to sit him," he teased her lazily. "You wouldn't like to see me
tumble off at your hall door, before the servants, would you?"

"Oh, Claud! And to think how you used to ride!"

But of course she knew this was a joke, and laughed it off.

"It's nothing but sheer indolence," said she, patting the hand on her
arm--that shapely ivory hand, with its polished filbert nails--"and I
see that my mission in life is to cure you of it. Come, we will make a
start with a real country walk."

She began to drag him away from the bowered homestead, but he planted
his feet, and took his hand from her arm.

"Not now, Debbie," he objected gently, but with that subtle note of
mastership that had struck so sharply into Jim's sensitiveness; "it is
mail-day, and the letters will be at the house by this time."

"What do letters matter to us?"

"That we can't tell until we see them."

They went in out of the sunshine to their arm-chairs in the shade. The
English mail had arrived, and it was very interesting. Letters from
lords and ladies, piles of papers of fashionable intelligence, voices
from that world which one of the pair had already begun to hanker to be
back in, although not yet distinctly conscious of it. The bride fetched
her work-basket, and busied herself with a piece of useless embroidery,
while the bridegroom read aloud to her passages from the epistles of
his titled correspondents, and from the printed chronicles of
their doings here and there. She had dreamed of his reading again the
sort of things that he used to read, while she sewed and listened; but
in the life that he had lived and grown to there had been no room for
learning and the arts. He had dropped them, with his health and his
horsemanship, long ago. The coroneted letters and the MORNING POST
occupied them until luncheon.

At luncheon, as at every other meal--despite the new husband's
expressed desire to have his wife to himself--his valet was present as
butler, watching over the dyspeptic's diet, and seeing that the wine
was right. Neither master nor man trusted anybody else to do this. It
was a large crumple in Deb's rose-leaf, Manton's limpet-like attachment
to Claud, who seemed unable to do anything without his servant's help,
and the latter's cool relegation of herself to the second place in the
MENAGE. It was all very well for HER to give her husband the premier
place--she did it gladly--but for Manton to take possession of
Redford as a mere appendage of his lord's was quite another matter. It
was still the honeymoon, and he might do as he liked--or rather, as
Claud liked; but it was not difficult to foresee the day when the valet
who dictated to her cook would become too much for the proud spirit of
the lady of the house, with whom it had ever been dangerous to make too
free--or to foretell what would happen then.

Claud dozed through the afternoon--like most idle and luxurious men,
he drank a great deal of wine, which made him sleepy--and Deb took the
opportunity to go all through her house and put everything in order.
They met again at tea, and had a stroll about the garden, arm-in-arm
and happy. Dinner was a rather silent function. Deb wished for
Jim, and regretted her easy abandonment of him; Claud never talked when
he was eating--the business was too serious, and Manton was there. But
while her husband smoked over his coffee, serene and charming, she sat
alone with him, revelling in his wit and gaiety, telling herself that
he was indeed the splendid fellow she had always thought him.

Then they went up to the big drawing-room--he was used to big rooms--
and he flung himself at full length upon one of the downy couches, and
she put silk pillows under his head.

While she was doing it, he pulled her down to him and kissed her.

"It's nice, isn't it?" he murmured in her ear.

For answer, she pressed her lips to his ivory brows and his dropped
eyelids. Her big heart was too full for speech.

"Now I am going to play to you," she whispered, and went off to the old
piano, that the tuner had prepared for this sacred purpose.

What years it was since she had cared to touch piano keys! And never
since the love-time of her youth had she played as she did now--all
the old things that he had ever cared for, with the old passion in
them. . . .

And while she played--he slumbered peacefully.


* * * * *


Jim, when his day of hard work was over, went back to his manager's
house--all the home he knew--had a bath, put on clean clothes, ate
perfunctorily of roast mutton, and bread and jam, and sat down with his
pipe on the top step of his verandah, where he hugged his knees and
watched the stars come out. He was a confirmed old bachelor now, "set",
his sisters said, in his bachelor ways. None of them lived with
him, to keep his house and cheer him up. It was too dull for them (with
the mistress of Redford never there), and besides, he did not want
cheering; for himself, he preferred dullness. An old working
housekeeper "did" for him, cooking his simple meals--eggs and bacon
alternating with chops for breakfast, and mutton and bread and jam for
his tea-dinner, with a fowl for Sundays--keeping his few plain rooms
clean and his socks mended. A hundred or two a year must have covered
his household expenses; the hundreds remaining of his handsome income
went to shore up the weak-kneed of his kindred, who had the habit of
falling back on him when their funds ran out, or anything else went
wrong with them.

He was a great reader. Books lined the walls of his otherwise meagrely
furnished rooms--they represented the one personal extravagance that
he indulged in--and newspapers and magazines came by every mail. In
these and in his thoughts he lived, when not intent upon the affairs of
the estate, which in the eyes of some appeared wholly to absorb him.
Tonight his thoughts sufficed. The latest parcel from Mullens' lay
untied, the new American periodicals with wrappers intact. Deb was home
again--that was enough food for the mind at present.

But, oh, what a home-coming! His own and only "boss" no longer, as
heretofore, but subject to a husband who clearly meant to be his
master, and as clearly meant him to have no mistress any more. Neither
in the way of business nor in the way of sentiment could she be again
to him what she had been throughout his life--the altar of his
sacrifice, the goddess of his simple worship, his guide, his
goal. He must not hope, nor try, nor even long for her now. That one
last comfort was taken from him.

Well!...

He walked about, while the fiercest paroxysm racked him. As some of us
in our pain-torments rush to lotion or anodyne, he sought the soothing
of the starry night, the cool darkness that had so often brought him
peace. To get away from the faintly audible tinkling of the shearers'
banjo and their songs, he strolled in the opposite direction, and that
was towards the dark mass of the trees encircling her house--her home,
in which he had no part. Mechanically he noted a garden gate open--she
had left it so--open to the rabbits against which its section of the
miles of wire-netting fencing the grounds had been so carefully
provided, and he went forward to shut it. Being there, he had a distant
view of the big drawing-room windows, thrown up and letting out wide
streams of light across the lawn. And while he stood to gaze at them,
picturing what within he could not see, he heard the piano--Debbie
playing.

And so she had an appreciative audience, although she did not know it.
Below her windows, out of the light, Jim--poor old Jim!--sat like a
statue, his head thrown back, his eyes uplifted, tears running down his
hairy, weather-beaten face. It was the most exquisitely miserable hour
of his life--or so he thought. He did not know what a highly favoured
mortal he really was, in that his beautiful love-story was never to be
spoiled by a happy ending.






This etext was produced by Robert Rowe, Charles Franks and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team.




STAMMERING

ITS CAUSE AND CURE

BY BENJAMIN NATHANIEL BOGUE

A Chronic Stammerer for Almost Twenty Years; Originator of the
Bogue Unit Method of Restoring Perfect Speech; Founder of the
Bogue Institute for Stammerers and Editor of the "Emancipator," a
magazine devoted to the Interests of Perfect Speech





TO MY MOTHER

That wonderful woman whose unflagging courage held me to a task
that I never could have completed alone and who when all others
failed, stood by me, encouraged me and pointed out the heights
where lay success--this volume is dedicated





CONTENTS

Preface

PART I--MY LIFE AS A STAMMERER

   I. Starting Life Under a Handicap
  II. My First Attempt to Be Cured
 III. My Search Continues
  IV. A Stammerer Hunts a Job
   V. Further Futile Attempts to Be Cured
  VI. I Refuse to Be Discouraged
 VII. The Benefit of Many Failures
VIII. Beginning Where Others Had Left Off


PAST II--STAMMERING AND STUTTERING

The Causes, Peculiarities, Tendencies and Effects

   I. Speech Disorders Defined
  II. The Causes of Stuttering and Stammering
 III. The Peculiarities of Stuttering and Stammering
  IV. The Intermittent Tendency
   V. The Progressive Tendency
  VI. Can Stammering and Stuttering Be Outgrown?
 VII. The Effect on the Mind
VIII. The Effect on the Body
  IX. Defective Speech in Children, (1) The Pre-Speaking Period
   X. Defective Speech in Children, (2) The Formative Period
  XI. Defective Speech in Children, (3) The Speech-Setting Period
 XII. The Speech Disorders of Youth
XIII. Where Does Stammering Lead?


PART III--THE CURE OF STAMMERING AND STUTTERING

   I. Can Stammering Really Be Cured?
  II. Cases That "Cure Themselves"
 III. Cases That Cannot Be Cured
  IV. Can Stammering Be Cured by Mail?
   V. The Importance of Expert Diagnosis
  VI. The Secret of Curing Stuttering and Stammering
 VII. The Bogue Unit Method Described
VIII. Some Cases I Have Met


PART IV--SETTING THE TONGUE FREE

   I. The Joy of Perfect Speech
  II. How to Determine Whether You Can Be Cured
 III. The Bogue Guarantee and What It Means
  IV. The Cure Is Permanent
   V. A Priceless Gift--An Everlasting Investment
  VI. The Home of Perfect Speech
 VII. My Mother and The Home Life at the Institute
VIII. A Heart-to-Heart Talk with Parents
  IX. The Dangers of Delay





PREFACE


Considerably more than a third of a century has elapsed since I
purchased my first book on stammering. I still have that quaint
little book made up in its typically English style with small
pages, small type and yellow paper back--the work of an English
author whose obtuse and half-baked theories certainly lent no
clarity to the stammerer's understanding of his trouble. Since
that first purchase my library of books on stammering has grown
until it is perhaps the largest individual collection in the
world. I have read these books--many of them several times,
pondered over the obscurities in some, smiled at the absurdities
in others and benefited by the truths in a few. Yet, with all
their profound explanations of theories and their verbose defense
of hopelessly unscientific methods, the stammerer would be
disappointed indeed, should he attempt to find in the entire
collection a practical and understandable discussion of his
trouble.

This insufficiency of existing books on stammering has encouraged
me to bring out the present volume. It is needed. I know this--
because I spent almost twenty years of my life in a well-nigh
futile search for the very knowledge herein revealed. I haunted
the libraries, was a familiar figure in book stores and a frequent
visitor to the second-hand dealer. Yet these efforts brought me
comparatively little--not one-tenth the information that this book
contains.

Perhaps it is but a colossal conceit that prompts me to offer this
volume to those who stutter and stammer as I did. Yet, I cannot
but believe that almost twenty years' personal experience as a
stammerer plus more than twenty-eight years' experience in curing
speech disorders has supplied me with an intensely practical,
valuable and worth-while knowledge on which to base this book.

After having stammered for twenty years you have pretty well run
the whole gamut of mockery, humiliation and failure. You
understand the stammerer's feelings, his mental processes and his
peculiarities.

And when you add to this more than a quarter of a century, every
waking hour of which has been spent in alleviating the stammerer's
difficulty--and successfully, too--you have a ground-work of
first-hand information that tends toward facts instead of fiction
and toward practice instead of theory.

These are my qualifications.

I have spent a life-time in studying stammering, stuttering and
kindred speech defects. I have written this book out of the
fullness of that experience--I might almost say out of my daily
work. I have made no attempt at literary style or rhetorical
excellence and while the work may be homely in expression the
information it contains is definite and positive--and what is more
important--it is authoritative.

I hope the reader will find the book useful--yes, and helpful. I
hope he will find in it the way to Freedom of Speech--his
birthright and the birthright of every man.

BENJAMIN NATHANIEL BOGUE

Indianapolis September, 1929





STAMMERING Its Cause and Cure





PART I

MY LIFE AS A STAMMERER





CHAPTER I

STARTING LIFE UNDER A HANDICAP


I was laughed at for nearly twenty years because I stammered. I
found school a burden, college a practical impossibility and life
a misery because of my affliction.

I was born in Wabash county, Indiana, and as far back as I can
remember, there was never a time when I did not stammer or
stutter. So far as I know, the halting utterance came with the
first word I spoke and for almost twenty years this difficulty
continued to dog me relentlessly.

When six years of age, I went to the little school house down the
road, little realizing what I was to go through with there before
I left.

Previous to the time I entered school, those around me were my
family, my relatives and my friends--people who were very kind and
considerate, who never spoke of my difficulty in my presence, and
certainly never laughed at me.

At school, it was quite another matter. It was fun for the other
boys to hear me speak and it was common pastime with them to get
me to talk whenever possible. They would jibe and jeer--and then
ask, "What did you say? Why don't you learn to talk English?"
Their best entertainment was to tease and mock me until I became
angry, taunt me when I did, and ridicule me at every turn.

It was not only in the school yard and going to and from school
that I suffered--but also in class. When I got up to recite, what
a spectacle I made, hesitating over every other word, stumbling
along, gasping for breath, waiting while speech returned to me.
And how they laughed at me--for then I was helpless to defend
myself. True, my teachers tried to be kind to me, but that did not
make me talk normally like other children, nor did it always
prevent the others from laughing at me.

The reader can imagine my state of mind during these school days.
I fairly hated even to start to school in the morning--not because
I disliked to go to school, but because I was sure to meet some of
my taunting comrades, sure to be humiliated and laughed at because
I stammered. And having reached the school room I had to face the
prospect of failing every time I stood up on my feet and tried to
recite.

There were four things I looked forward to with positive dread--
the trip to school, the recitations in class, recess in the school
yard and the trip home again. It makes me shudder even now to
think of those days--the dread with which I left that home of mine
every school day morning, the nervous strain, the torment and
torture, and the constant fear of failure which never left me.
Imagine my thoughts as I left parents and friends to face the
ribald laughter of those who did not understand. I asked myself:
"Well, what new disgrace today? Whom will I meet this morning?
What will the teacher say when I stumble? How shall I get through
recess? What is the easiest way home?"

These and a hundred other questions, born of nervousness and fear,
I asked myself morning after morning. And day after day, as the
hours dragged by, I would wonder, "Will this day NEVER end? Will I
NEVER get out of this?"

Such was my life in school. And such is the daily life of
thousands of boys and hundreds of girls--a life of dread, of
constant fear, of endless worry and unceasing nervousness.

But, as I look back at the boys and girls who helped to make life
miserable for me in school, I feel for them only kindness. I bear
no malice. They did no more than their fathers and mothers, many
of them, would have done. They little realized what they were
doing. They had no intention to do me personal injury, though
there is no question in my mind but that they made my trouble
worse. They did not know how terribly they were punishing me. They
saw in my affliction only fun, while I saw in it--only misery.





CHAPTER II

MY FIRST ATTEMPT TO BE CURED


I can remember very clearly the positive fear which always
accompanied a visit to our friends or neighbors, or the advent of
visitors at my home. Many a time I did not have what I desired to
eat because I was afraid to ask for it. When I did ask, every eye
was turned on me, and the looks of the strangers, with now and
then a half-suppressed smile, worked me up to a nervous state that
was almost hysterical, causing me to stutter worse than at any
other time.

At one time--I do not remember what the occasion was--a number of
people had come to visit us. A large table had been set and loaded
with good things. We sat down, the many dishes were passed around
the table, as was the custom at our home, and I said not a word.
But before long the first helping was gone--a hungry boy soon
cleans his plate--and I was about to ask for more when I bethought
myself. "Please pass--" I could never do it--"p" was one of the
hard sounds for me. "Please pass--" No, I couldn't do it. So
busying myself with the things that were near at hand and helping
myself to those things which came my way, I made out the meal--
but I got up from the table hungry and with a deeper consciousness
of the awfulness of my affliction. Slowly it began to dawn on me
that as long as I stammered I was doomed to do without much of the
world's goods. I began to see that although I might for a time sit
at the World's Table of Good Things in Life I could hope to have
little save that which someone passed on to me gratuitously.

As long as I was at home with my parents, life went along fairly
well. They understood my difficulty, they sympathized with me, and
they looked at my trouble in the same light as myself--as an
affliction much to be regretted. At home I was not required to do
anything which would embarrass me or cause me to become highly
excited because of my straining to talk, but on the other hand I
was permitted to do things which I could do well, without talking
to any one.

The time was coming, however, when it would be "Sink or Swim" for
me, since it would not be many years until a sense of duty, if
nothing else, would send me out to make my own way. This time
comes to all boys. It was soon to be MY task to face the world--to
make a living for myself. And this was a thing which, strangely
enough for a boy of my age, I began to think about. I had some
experience in meeting people and in trying to transact some of the
minor business connected with our farm and I found out that I had
no chance along that line as long as I stammered.

And yet it seemed as if I was to be compelled to continue to
stammer the rest of my life, for my condition was getting worse
every day. This was very clear to me--and very plain to my
parents. They were anxious to do something for me and do it
quickly, so they called in a skilled physician. They told him
about my trouble. He gave me a cursory examination and decided
that my stuttering was caused by nervousness, and gave me some
very distasteful medicine, which I was compelled to take three
times a day. This medicine did me no good. I took it for five
years, but there was no progress made toward curing my stuttering.
The reason was simple. Stuttering cannot be cured by bitter
medicine. The physician was using the wrong method. He was
treating the effect and not the cause. He was of the opinion that
it was the nervousness that caused my stuttering, whereas the fact
of the matter was, it was my stuttering that caused the
nervousness.

I do not blame this physician in the least because of his failure,
for he was not an expert on the subject of speech defects. While
he was a medical man of known ability, he had not made a study of
speech disorders and knew practically nothing about either the
cause or cure of stammering or stuttering. Even today, prominent
medical men will tell you that their profession has given little
or no attention to defects of speech and take little interest in
such cases.

Some time later, after the physician had failed to benefit me, a
traveling medicine man came to our community, set up his tent, and
stayed for a week. Of course, like all traveling medicine men, his
remedies were cure-alls. One night in making his talk before the
crowd, he mentioned the fact that his wonderful concoction, taken
with the pamphlet that he would furnish, both for the sum of one
dollar, would cure stammering. I didn't have the dollar, so I did
not buy. But the next day I went back, and I took the dollar
along. He got my dollar, and I still have the book. Of course, I
received no benefit whatever. I later came to the conclusion that
the medicine man had been in the neighborhood long enough to have
pointed out to him "BEN BOGUE'S BOY WHO STUTTERS" (as I was known)
and had decided that when I was in his audience a hint or two on
the virtues of his wonderful remedy in cases of stammering, would
be sufficient to extract a dollar from me for a tryout.

These experiences, however, were valuable to me, even though they
were costly, for they taught me a badly-needed lesson, to wit:
That drugs and medicines are not a cure for stammering.

Many of the people who came in contact with me, and those who
talked the matter over with my parents, said that I would outgrow
the trouble. "All that is necessary," remarked one man, "is for
him to forget that he stammers, and the trouble will be gone."

This was a rather foolish suggestion and simply proved how little
the man knew about the subject. In the first place, a stammerer
cannot forget his difficulty--who can say that he would be cured
if he did? You might as well say to a man holding a hot poker, "If
you will only forget that the poker is hot, it will be cool." It
takes something more than forgetfulness to cure stammering.

The belief held by both my parents and myself that I would outgrow
my difficulty was one of the gravest mistakes we ever made. Had I
followed the advice of others who believed in the outgrowing
theory it eventually would have caused me to become a confirmed
stammerer, entirely beyond hope of cure.

Today, as a result of twenty-eight years' daily contact with
stammerers, I know that stammering cannot be outgrown. The man who
suggests that it is possible to cure stammering by outgrowing it
is doing a great injustice to the stammerer, because he is giving
him a false hope--in fact the most futile hope that any stammerer
ever had. I wish I could paint in the sky, in letters of fire, the
truth that "Stammering cannot be outgrown," because this, of all
things, is the most frequent pitfall of the stammerer, his
greatest delusion and one of the most prolific causes of continued
suffering. I know whereof I speak, because I tried it myself. I
know how many different people held up to me the hope that I would
outgrow it.

My father offered me a valuable shotgun if I would stop
stammering. My mother offered me money, a watch and a horse and
buggy. These inducements made me strain every nerve to stop my
imperfect utterance, but all to no avail. At this time I knew
nothing of the underlying principles of speech and any effort
which I made to stop my stammering was merely a crude, misdirected
attempt which naturally had no chances for success.

I learned that prizes will never cure stammering. I found out too,
something I have never since forgotten: that the man, woman or
child who stammers needs no inducement to cause him to desire to
be cured, because the change from his condition as a stammerer to
that of a nonstammerer is of more inducement to the sufferer than
all the money you could offer him. I have never yet seen a man,
woman or child who wanted to stammer or stutter.

The offer of prizes doing no good, I took long trips to get my
mind off the affliction. I did everything in my power, worked
almost day and night, exerted every effort I could command--it was
all in vain.

The idea that I would finally outgrow my difficulty was
strengthened in the minds of my parents and friends by the fact
that there were times when my impediment seemed almost to
disappear, but to our surprise and disappointment, it always came
back again, each time in a more aggravated form; each time with a
stronger hold upon me than ever before.

I found out, then, one of the fundamental characteristics of
stammering--its intermittent tendency. In other words, I
discovered that a partial relief from the difficulty was one of
the true symptoms of the malady. And I learned further that this
relief is only temporary and not what we first thought it to be,
viz: a sign that the disorder was leaving.





CHAPTER III

MY SEARCH CONTINUES


My parents' efforts to have me cured, however, did not cease with
my visit to the medicine man. We were still looking for something
that would bring relief. My teacher, Miss Cora Critchlow, handed
me an advertisement one day, telling me of a man who claimed to be
able to cure stammering by mail. In the hope that I would get some
good from the treatment, my parents sent this mail order man a
large sum of money. In return for this I was furnished with
instructions to do a number of useless things, such as holding
toothpicks between my teeth, talking through my nose, whistling
before I spoke a word, and many other foolish things. It was at
this time that I learned once and for all, the imprudence of
throwing money away on these mail order "cures," so-called, and I
made up my mind to bother no more with this man and his kind.

So far as the mail order instructions were concerned, they were
crude and unscientific--merely a hodge-podge of pseudo-technical
phraseology and crass ignorance--a meaningless jargon scarcely
intelligible to the most highly educated, and practically
impossible of interpretation by the average stammerer who was
supposed to follow the course. Even after I had, by persistent
effort, interpreted the instructions and followed them closely for
many months, there was not a sign of the slightest relief from my
trouble. It was evident to me even then that I could never cure
myself by following a mail cure.

Today, after twenty-eight years of experience in the cure of
stammering, I can say with full authority, that stammering cannot
be successfully treated by mail. The very nature of the
difficulty, as well as the method of treatment, make it impossible
to put the instructions into print or to have the stammerer follow
out the method from a printed sheet.

As I approached manhood, my impediment began to get worse. My
stuttering changed to stammering. Instead of rapidly repeating
syllables or words, I was unable to begin a word. I stood
transfixed, my limbs drawing themselves into all kinds of
unnatural positions. There were violent spasmodic movements of the
head, and contractions of my whole body. The muscles of my throat
would swell, affecting the respiratory organs, and causing a
curious barking sound. When I finally got started, I would utter
the first part of the sentence slowly, gradually increase the
speed, and make a rush toward the end.

At other times, when attempting to speak, my lips would pucker up,
firmly set together, and I would be unable to separate them, until
my breath was exhausted. Then I would gasp for more breath,
struggling with the words I desired to speak, until the veins of
my forehead would swell, my face would become red, and I would
sink back, wholly unable to express myself, and usually being
obliged to resort to writing.

These paroxysms left me extremely nervous and in a seriously
weakened condition. After one of these attacks, the cold
perspiration would break out on my forehead in great beads and I
would sink into the nearest chair, where I would be compelled to
remain until I had regained my strength.

My affliction was taking all my energy, sapping my strength,
deadening my mental faculties, and placing me at a hopeless
disadvantage in every way. I could do nothing that other people
did. I appeared unnatural. I was nervous, irritable, despondent.
This despondency now brought about a peculiar condition. I began
to believe that everyone was more or less an enemy of mine. And
still worse, I came to believe that I was an enemy of myself,
which feeling threw me into despair, the depths of which I do not
wish to recall, even now.

I was not only miserably unhappy myself, I made everyone else
around me unhappy, although I did it, not intentionally, but
because my affliction had caused me to lose control of myself.

In this condition, my nerves were strained to the breaking point
all day long, and many a night I can remember crying myself to
sleep--crying purely to relieve that stored-up nervous tension,
and f ailing off to sleep as a result of exhaustion.

As I said before, there were periods of grace when the trouble
seemed almost to vanish and I would be delighted to believe that
perhaps it was gone forever--happy hope! But it was but a
delusion, a mirage in the distance, a new road to lead me astray.
The affliction always returned, as every stammerer knows--returned
worse than before. All the hopes that I would outgrow my trouble,
were found to be false hopes. For me, there was no such thing as
outgrowing it and I have since discovered that after the age of
six only one-fifth of one per cent. ever outgrow the trouble.

Another thing which I always thought peculiar when I was a
stammerer was the fact that I had practically no difficulty in
talking to animals when I was alone with them. I remember very
well that we had a large bulldog called Jim, which I was very fond
of. I used to believe that Jim understood my troubles better than
any friend I had, unless it was Old Sol, our family driving horse.

Jim used to go with me on all my jaunts--I could talk to him by
the hour and never stammer a word. And Old Sol--well, when
everything seemed to be going against me, I used to go out and
talk things over with Old Sol. Somehow he seemed to understand--he
used to whinney softly and rub his nose against my shoulder as if
to say, "I understand, Bennie, I understand!"

Somehow my father had discovered this peculiarity of my
affliction--that is, my ability to talk to animals or when alone.
Something suggested to him that my stammering could be cured, if I
could be kept by myself for several weeks. With this thought in
mind, he suggested that I go on a hunting and fishing trip in the
wilds of the northwest, taking no guide, no companion of any sort,
so that there would be no necessity of my speaking to any human
being while I was gone.

My father's idea was that if my vocal organs had a complete rest,
I would be restored to perfect speech. As I afterwards proved to
my own satisfaction by actual trial, this idea was entirely wrong.
You can not hope to restore the proper action of your vocal organs
by ceasing to use them. The proper functioning of any bodily organ
is the result, not of ceasing to use it at all, but rather of
using it correctly.

This can be very easily proved to the satisfaction of any one.
Take the case of the small boy who boasts of his muscle. He is
conscious of an increasing strength in the muscles of his arm not
because he has failed to use these muscles but because he has used
them continually, causing a faster-than-ordinary development.

You can readily imagine that I looked forward to my "vacation"
with keen anticipation, for I had never been up in the northwest
and I was full of stories I had read and ideas I had formed of its
wonders.

The trip, lasting two weeks, did me scarcely any good at all. The
most I can say for it is that it quieted my nerves and put me in
somewhat better physical condition, which a couple of weeks in the
outdoor country would do for any growing boy.

But this trip did not cure my stammering, nor did it tend to
alleviate the intensity of the trouble in the least, save through
a lessened nervous state for a few days. Today, after twenty-eight
years' experience, I know that it would be just as sensible to say
that a wagon stuck in the soft mud would get out by "resting"
there as it is to say that stammering can be eradicated by
allowing the vocal organs to rest through disuse.

Shortly after my return from the trip to the northwest, my father
died, with the result that our household was, for a time, very
much broken up. For a while, at least, my stammering, though not
forgotten, did not receive a great deal of attention, for there
were many other things to think about.

The summer following my father's death, however, I began again my
so-far fruitless search for a cure for my stammering, this time
placing myself under the care and instruction of a man claiming to
be "The World's Greatest Specialist in the Cure of Stammering." He
may have been the world's greatest specialist, but not in the cure
of stammering. He did succeed, however, by the use of his absurd
methods, in putting me through a course that resulted in the
membrane and lining of my throat and vocal organs becoming
irritated and inflamed to such an extent that I was compelled to
undergo treatment for a throat affection that threatened to be as
serious as the stammering itself.

I tried everything that came to my attention--first one thing and
then another--but without results. Still I refused to be
discouraged. I kept on and on, my mother constantly encouraging
and reassuring me. And you will later see that I found a method
that cured me.

There are always those who stand idly about and say, "It can't be
done!" Such people as these laughed at Fulton with his steamboat,
they laughed at Stephenson and his steam locomotive, they laughed
at Wright and the airplane.

They say, "It can't be done"--but it is done, nevertheless.

I turned a deaf ear to the people who tried to convince me that it
couldn't be done. I had a firm belief in that old adage, "Where
there is a will there is a way," and I made another of my own,
which said, "I will FIND a way or MAKE one!"

And I did!





CHAPTER IV

A STAMMERER HUNTS A JOB


After recovering from my sad experiment with the "Wonderful
Specialist," I did not want to go home and listen to the Anvil
Chorus of "It Can't Be Done!" and "I Told You So!" I had no desire
to be the object of laughter as well as pity. So I tried to get a
job in that same city. I went from office to office--but nobody
had a job for a man who stammered.

Finally I did land a job, however, such as it was. My duties were
to operate the elevator in a hotel. How I managed to get that job,
I often wonder now, for nobody on whom I called had any place for
a boy or man who stammered. I thought it would be easy to find a
job where I wouldn't need to talk, but when I started out to look
for this job, I found it wasn't so easy after all. Almost any job
requires a man who can talk. This I had learned in my own search
for a place. But somehow or other, I managed to get that job as
elevator boy in a hotel.

For the work as elevator boy I was paid three dollars a week.
Wasn't that great pay for a man grown? But that's what I got.

That is, I got it for a little while, until I lost my job. For
lose it I did before very long. I found out that I couldn't do
much with even an elevator boy's job at three dollars a week
unless I could talk. My employer found it out, too, and then he
found somebody who could take my place--a boy who could answer
when spoken to.

Well, here I was out of a job again. I am afraid I came pretty
near being discouraged about that time. Things looked pretty
hopeless for me--it was mighty hard work to get a job and the
place didn't last long after I had gotten it.

But, nevertheless, the only thing to do was to try again. I
started the search all over again. I tried first one place and
then another. One man wanted me to start out as a salesman. He
showed me how I could make more money than I had ever made in my
life--convinced me that I could make it. Then I started to tell my
part of the story--but I didn't get very far before he discovered
that I was a stammerer. That was enough for him--with a gesture of
hopelessness, he turned to his desk. "You'll never do, young man,
you'll never do. You can't even talk!" And the worst of it was
that he was right.

I once thought I had landed a job as stock chaser in a factory,
but here, too, stammering barred the way, for they told me that
even the stock chaser had to be able to deliver verbal messages
from one foreman to another. I didn't dare to try that.

Eventually, I drifted around to the Union News Company. They
wanted a boy to sell newspapers on trams running out over the
Grand Trunk Railway. I took the job--the last job in the world I
should have expected to hold, because of all the places a
newsboy's job is one where you need to have a voice and the
ability to talk.

I hope no stammerer ever has a position that causes him as much
humiliation and suffering as that job caused me. You can imagine
what it meant to me to go up and down the aisles of the train,
calling papers and every few moments finding out that I couldn't
say what I started out to say and then go gasping and grunting
down the aisle making all sorts of facial grimaces.

How the passengers laughed at me! And how they made fun of me and
asked me all sorts of questions just to hear me try to talk. It
almost made me wish I could never see a human being again, so keen
was the suffering and so tense were my nerves as a result of this
work.

I don't believe I ever did anything that kept me in a more
frenzied mental state than this work of trying to sell newspapers
--and it wasn't very long (as I had expected) until the manager
found out my situation and gently let me out.

Then I gave up, all at once. Was I discouraged? Well, perhaps. But
not exactly discouraged. Rather I saw the plain hopelessness of
trying to get or hold a job in my condition. So I prepared to go
home. I didn't want to do it, because I knew the neighbors and
friends round about would be ready for me with, "I told you so"
and "I knew it couldn't be done" and a lot of gratuitous
information like that.

But I gave up, nevertheless, deeply disappointed to think that
once again I had failed to be cured of stammering, yet all the
while resolving just as firmly as ever that I would try again and
that I would never give up hope as long as there remained anything
for me to do.

And this rule I followed out, month after month and year after
year, until in the end I was richly rewarded for my patience and
persistence.





CHAPTER V

FURTHER FUTILE ATTEMPTS TO BE CURED


The next summer I decided to visit eastern institutions for the
cure of stammering and determine if these could do any more for me
than had already been done-which as the reader has seen, was
practically nothing. I bought a ticket for Philadelphia, where I
remained for some time, and where I gained more information of
value than in all of my previous efforts combined.

I found in the Quaker City an old man who had made speech defects
almost a life study. He knew more about the true principles of
speech and the underlying fundamentals in the production of voice
than all of the rest put together. He taught me these things, and
gave me a solid foundation on which to build. True, he did not
cure my stammering. But that was not because he failed to
understand its cause, but merely because he had not worked out the
correct method of removing the cause.

It was this man who first brought home to me the fact that
principles of speech are constant, that they never change and that
every person who talks normally follows out the same principles of
speech, while every person who stutters or stammers violates these
principles of speech. That is the basis of sound procedure for the
cure of stammering and I must acknowledge my indebtedness to this
sincere old gentleman who did so much for me in the way of
knowledge, even though he did but little for me in the way of
results.

After leaving Philadelphia, I visited Pittsburgh, Baltimore,
Washington, New York, Boston and other eastern cities, searching
for a cure, but did not find it. I was benefited very little.
These experiences, however, all possessed a certain value,
although I did not know it at the time. They taught me the things
which would not work and by a simple process of elimination I
later found the things which would.

Finally, however, having become disgusted with my eastern trip, I
bought a ticket for home and boarded the train more nearly
convinced than ever that I had an incurable case of stammering.

Some time after trying my experiment with the eastern schools, I
saw the advertisement of a professor from Chicago saying that he
would be at Fort Wayne, Indiana, (which was 40 miles from my
home), for a week.

He was there. So was I. But to my sorrow. I paid him twenty
dollars for which he taught me a few simple breathing and vocal
exercises, most of which I already knew by heart, having been
drilled in them time and again. This fellow was like so many
others who claimed to cure stammering--he was in the business just
because there were stammerers to cure, and not because he knew
anything about it. He treated the effects of the trouble and did
not attempt to remove the cause. The fact of the matter is, I
doubt whether he knew anything about the cause.

Then one Sunday while reading a Cincinnati Sunday newspaper, I ran
across an advertisement of a School of Elocution, in which was the
statement, "Stammering Positively Cured!" Whenever I saw a sign
"Vocal Culture" I became interested, so I clipped the
advertisement, corresponded with the school and not many Sundays
later, being able to secure excursion rates to Cincinnati, I made
the trip and prepared to begin my work.

The cost of the course was only fifty dollars and I thought I
would he getting cured mighty cheap if I succeeded. So I gave this
school a "whirl" with the idea of going hack home in a short time
cured--to the surprise of my family and friends. But I was doomed
to disappointment. I took the twenty lessons, but went home
stammering as badly as ever. You can imagine how I felt as the Big
Four train whistled at the Wabash river just before pulling into
the Wabash station, where I was to get off.

Here was another failure that could be checked up against the
instructor who knew nothing whatever about the cause of
stammering. The whole idea of the course was to cultivate voice
and make me an orator. That was very fine and would, no doubt,
have done me a great deal of good, but it was of no use to try to
cultivate a fine voice until I could use that voice in the normal
way. The finest voice in the world is of no use if you stammer,
and cannot use it. The school of elocution went the same way as
all the rest--it was a total failure so far as curing my
stammering was concerned.

By this time, my effort to be cured of stammering had become a
habit, just as eating and sleeping are habits. I was determined to
be cured. I made up my mind I would never give up. True, I often
said to myself, "I may never be cured," but in the same breath I
resolved that if I was not, it could never be said that it was
because I was a "quitter."

My next experiment was with a man who claimed he could cure my
stammering in one hour. Think of it. Here I had been, spending
weeks and months trying out just ONE way of cure and here was a
man who could do the whole job IN ONE HOUR. Wonderful power he
must possess, I thought. Of course, I did not believe he could do
it. I COULD not believe it. It was not believable. But
nevertheless, in my effort to be cured, I had resolved to leave no
stone unturned. I made up my mind that the only way to be sure
that I was not missing the successful method was to try them all.

So I put myself under this man's hand. He was a hypnotist. He felt
able to restore speech with a hypnotic sleep and the proper
hypnotic suggestion while I was in the trance. But like all the
fake fol-de-rol with which I had come in contact, he did not even
make an impression.

I will say in behalf of this hypnotic stammer doctor, however,
that he was following distinguished precedent in attempting to
cure stammering by hypnotism. German professors in particular have
been especially zealous in following out this line of endeavor and
many of them have written volumes on the subject only to end up
with the conclusion (in their own minds, at least) that it is a
failure. Hypnotism may be said to be a condition where the will of
the subject is entirely dormant and his every act and thought
controlled by the mind of the hypnotist. I do not know, not having
been conscious at the time, but it is not improbable that while in
the hypnotic state, I was able to talk without stammering, since
my words were directed by the mind of the professor, and not my
own mind. But inasmuch as I couldn't have the professor carried
around with me through the rest of my lifetime in order to use his
mind, the treatment could not benefit me.

I next got in touch with an honest-looking old man with a beard
like one of the prophets, who assured me with a great deal of
professional dignity, that stammering was a mere trifle for a
magnetic healer like himself and that he could cure it entirely in
ten treatments. So I planked down the specified amount for ten
treatments, and went to him regularly three times a week for
almost a month, when he explained to me, again with a plenitude of
professionalism, that my case was a very peculiar one and that it
would require ten more treatments. But I could not figure out how,
if ten treatments had done me no good, ten more would do any
better. So I declined to try his methods any further. Once again I
said to myself, "Well, this has failed, too--I wonder what next?"

The next happened to be electrical treatments. When I visited the
electrical treatment specialist, he explained to me in a very
effective manner just how (according to his views) stammering was
caused by certain contractions of the muscles of the vocal organs,
etc., and told me that his treatment surely was the thing to
eliminate this contraction and leave my speech entirely free from
stammering. I knew something about my stammering then, but not a
great deal--consequently his explanation sounded plausible to me
and appealed to me as being very sensible and so I decided to give
it a trial. I was glad after it was over that I had received no
bad effects--that was ALL the cause I had to be glad, for he had
not changed my stammering one iota, nor had he changed my speech
in any way to make it easier for me to talk. Thus, had I found
another one of the things that will not work and chalked up
another failure against my attempts to be cured of stammering.

By this time, the reader may well wonder why I was not discouraged
in my efforts to be cured. Well, who will say that I was not? I
believe I was--as far as it was possible for me to be discouraged
at that time. But despite all my failures, I had made up my mind
never to give up until I was cured of stammering. I set myself
doggedly to the task of ridding myself of an impediment that I
knew would always hold me down and prevent any measure of success.
I stayed with this task. I never gave up. I kept this one thing
always hi mind. It was a life job with me if necessary--and I was
not a "quitter." So failures and discouragements simply steeled me
to more intense endeavors to be cured. And while these endeavors
cost my parents many hundreds of dollars and cost me many years of
time, still, I feel today that they were worth while--not worth
while enough to go through again, or worth while enough to
recommend to any one else--but at least not a total loss to me.





CHAPTER VI

I REFUSE TO BE DISCOURAGED


After I had tried the electric treatment and found it wanting, I
heard of a clairvoyant who could, by looking at a person, tell his
name, age, occupation, place of residence, etc., and could cure
all diseases and afflictions including stammering. So I thought I
would give him a trial. He claimed to work through a "greater
power"--whatever that was--and so I paid him his fee to see the
"greater power" work--and to be cured of stammering, as per
promise. But there was nothing doing in the line of a cure--all I
got in trying to be cured, was another chapter added to my book of
experience.

Following this experience, I tried an osteopath, whose methods,
however good they might have been, affected merely the physical
organs and could not hope to reach the real cause of my trouble. I
do not doubt that this man was entirely sincere in explaining his
own science to me in a way that led me to build up hopes of relief
from that method. He simply did not understand stammering and its
causes and was therefore not prepared to treat it.

I was told of another doctor who claimed to be able to cure
stammering. When I called to see him, he had me wait in his
reception room for nearly two hours, for the purpose, I presume,
of giving me the impression that he was a very busy man. Then he
called me into his private consultation room, where he apparently
had all of the modern and up-to-date surgical instruments. He put
me through a thorough examination, after which he said that the
only thing to cure me was a surgical operation to have my tonsils
removed. I was not willing to consent to the use of the knife, so
therefore the operation was never performed.

Since that time, however, the practice of operating on children
especially for the removal of adenoids and tonsils has become very
popular and quite frequently this is the remedy prescribed for
various and sundry ailments of childhood. In no case must a parent
expect to eradicate stuttering or stammering by the removal of the
tonsils. The operation, beneficial as it may be in other ways,
does not prevent the child from stammering--for the operation does
not remove the cause of the stammering--that cause is mental, not
physical.





CHAPTER VII

THE BENEFIT OF MANY FAILURES


I had now tried upwards of fifteen different methods for the cure
of my stammering. I had tried the physician; the surgeon; the
elocution teacher; the hypnotic specialist; the osteopath; a
clairvoyant; a mail-order scheme; the world's greatest speech
specialist--so-called, and several other things. My parents had
spent hundreds of dollars of money trying to have me cured. They
had spared no effort, stopped at no cost. And yet I now stammered
worse than I had ever stammered before. Everything I had tried had
been a worthless failure. Nothing had been of the least permanent
good to me. My money was gone, months of time had been wasted and
I now began to wonder if I had not been very foolish indeed, in
going to first one man and then another, trying to be cured.
"Wouldn't it have been better," I asked, "if I had resigned myself
to a life as a stammerer and let it go at that?"

My father before me stammered. So did my grandfather and no less
than fourteen of my blood relations. My affliction was inherited
and therefore supposedly incurable. At least so I was told by
honest physicians and other scientific observers who believed what
they said and who had no desire to make any personal gain by
trafficking in my infirmity. These men told me frankly that their
skill and knowledge held out no hope for me and advised me from
the very beginning to save my money and avoid the pitfalls of the
many who would profess to be able to cure me.

But I had disregarded this honest advice, sincerely given, had
spent my money and my time--and what had I gotten? Would I not
have been better off if I had listened to the advice and stayed at
home? Everything seemed to answer "Yes," but down in my heart I
felt that things were better as they were. Certainly some good
must come of all this effort--surely it could not all be wasted.

"But yet," I argued with myself, "what good can come of it?"
Stammering was fast ruining my life. It had already taken the joy
out of my childhood and had made school a task almost too heavy to
be undertaken. It had marked my youth with a somber melancholy,
and now that youth was slipping away from me with no hope that the
future held anything better for me than the past. Something had to
be done. I was overpowered by that thought--something had to be
done. It had to be done at once. I had come to the turning point
in my life. Like Hamlet, I found myself repeating over and over
again,

    "To be or not to be,
    That is the question."

Was I discouraged? No, I will not admit that I was discouraged,
but I was pretty nearly resigned to a life without fluent speech,
nearly convinced that future efforts to find a cure for stammering
would be fruitless and bring no better results.

It was about this time that I stepped into the office of my
cousin, then a successful lawyer and district attorney of his
city, later the first vice-president of one of the great American
railroads with headquarters in New York, and now retired. He was
one of those men in whose vocabulary there is no such word as
"fail." After I had talked with him for quite a while, he looked
at me, and with his kindly, almost fatherly smile asked, "Why
don't you cure yourself?"

"Cure myself?" I queried. "How do you expect me, a young man with
no scientific training, to cure myself, when the learned doctors,
surgeons and scientists of the country hare given me up as
incurable?"

"That doesn't make any difference," he replied, "'while there is
life, there is hope' and it's a sure thing that nobody ever
accomplished anything worth while by accepting the failures of
others as proof that the thing couldn't be done. Whitney would
never have invented the cotton gin if he had accepted the failures
of others as final. Columbus picked out a road to America and
assured the skeptics that there was no danger of his sailing 'over
the edge.' Of course, it had never been done before, but then
Columbus went ahead and did it himself. He didn't take somebody
else's failure as an indication of what he could do. If he had, a
couple of hundred years later, somebody else would have discovered
it and put Columbus in the class with the rest of the weak-kneed
who said it couldn't BE done, just because IT NEVER HAD BEEN DONE.

"The progress of this country, Ben," continued my cousin, "is
founded on the determination of men who refuse to accept the
failures of others as proof that things can't be done at all. Now
you've got a mighty good start. You've found out all about these
other methods--you know that they have failed--and in a lot of
cases, you know WHY they have failed. Now, why don't you begin
where they have left off and find out how to succeed?"

The thought struck me like a bolt from a clear sky: "BEGIN WHERE
THE OTHERS LEAVE OFF AND FIND OUT HOW TO SUCCEED!" I kept saying
it over and over to myself, "Begin where the others leave off--
begin where the others leave off!"

This thought put high hope in my heart. It seemed to ring like a
call from afar. "Begin where the others leave off and find out how
to succeed." I kept thinking about that all the way home. I
thought of it at the table that evening. I said nothing. I went to
bed--but I didn't go to sleep, for singing through my brain was
that sentence, "Begin where the others leave off and find out how
to succeed!"

Right then and there I made the resolve that resulted in my curing
myself. "I WILL do it," I said, "I will begin where the others
leave off--and I WILL SUCCEED!!" Then and there I determined to
master the principles of speech, to chart the methods that had
been used by others, to find their defects, to locate the cause of
stammering, to find out how to remove that cause and remove it
from myself, so that I, like the others whom I so envied, could
talk freely and fluently.

That resolution--that determination which first fired me that
evening never left me. It marked the turning point in my whole
life. I was no longer dependent upon others, no longer looking to
physicians or elocution teachers or hypnotists to cure me of
stammering. I was looking to myself. If I was to be cured, then I
must be the one to do it. This responsibility sobered me. It
intensified my determination. It emphasized in my own mind the
need for persistent effort, for a constant striving toward this
one thing. And absorbed with this idea, living and working toward
this one end, I began my work.





CHAPTER VIII

BEGINNING WHERE OTHERS HAD LEFT OFF


From the moment that my resolution took shape, my plans were all
laid with one thing in mind--to cure myself of stammering. I
determined, first of all, to master the principles of speech. I
remembered very well, indeed, the admonition of Prof. J. J. Mills,
President of Earlham College, on the day I left the institution.
"You have been a hard-working student," he said, "but your success
will never be complete until you learn to talk as others talk.
Cure your stammering at any cost." That was the thing I had
determined to do. And having determined upon that course, I
resolved to let nothing swerve me from it.

I began the study of anatomy. I studied the lungs, the throat, the
brain--nothing escaped me. I pursued my studies with the avidity
of the medical student wrapped up in his work. I read all the
books that had been published on the subject of stammering. I
sought eagerly for translations of foreign books on the subject. I
lived in the libraries. I studied late at night and arose early in
the morning, that I might be at my work again. It absorbed me. I
thought of the subject by day and dreamed of it by night. It was
never out of my mind. I was living it, breathing it, eating it. I
had not thought myself capable of such concentration as I was
putting in on the pursuit of the truth as regards stammering and
its cure.

With the knowledge that I had gained from celebrated physicians,
specialists and institutions throughout this country and Europe, I
extended my experiments and investigation. I had an excellent
subject on which to experiment--myself. Progress was slow at
first--so slow, in fact, that I did not realize until later that
it was progress at all. Nothing but my past misery, backed up by
my present determination to be free from the impediment that
hampered me at every turn, could have kept me from giving up. But
at last, after years of effort, after long nights of study and
days of research, I was rewarded by success--I found and perfected
a method of control of the articulatory organs as well as of the
brain centers controlling the organs of speech. I had learned the
cause of stammering and stuttering.

All of the mystery with which the subject had been surrounded by
so-called specialists, fell away. In all its clearness, I saw the
truth. I saw how the others, who had failed in my case, had failed
because of ignorance. I saw that they had been treating effects,
not causes. I saw exactly WHY their methods had not succeeded and
could never succeed.

In truth I had BEGUN WHERE THE OTHERS LEFT OFF AND WON SUCCESS.
The reader can imagine what this meant to me. It meant that at
last I could speak--clearly, distinctly, freely, and fluently,
without those facial contortions that had made me an object of
ridicule wherever I went. It meant that I could take my place in
life, a man among men; that I could look the whole world in the
face; that I could live and enjoy life as other normal persons
lived and enjoyed it.

At first my friends could not believe that my cure was permanent.
Even my mother doubted the evidence of her own ears. But I knew
the trouble would not come back, for the old fear was gone, the
nervousness soon passed away, and a new feeling of confidence and
self-reliance took hold of me, with the result that in a few weeks
I was a changed man. People who had formerly avoided me because of
my infirmity began to greet me with new interest. Gradually the
old affliction was forgotten by those with whom I came into daily
contact and by many I was thought of as a man who had never
stammered. Even today, those who knew me when I stammered so badly
I could hardly talk, are hardly able to believe that I am the same
person who used to be known as "BEN BOGUE'S BOY WHO STUTTERS."

For today I can talk as freely and fluently as anybody. I do not
hesitate in the least. For years, I have not even known what it is
to grope mentally for a word. I speak in public as well as in
private conversation. I have no difficulty in talking over the
telephone and in fact do not know the difference. In my work, I
lecture to students and am invited to address scientific bodies,
societies and educational gatherings, all of which I can
accomplish without the slightest difficulty.

Today, I can say with Terence, "I am a man and nothing that is
human is alien to me." And I can go a step further and say to
those who are afflicted as I was afflicted: "I have been a
stammerer. I know your troubles, your sorrows, your
discouragements. I understand with an understanding born of a
costly experience."

Man or woman, boy or girl, wherever you are, my heart goes out to
you. Whatever your station in life, rich or poor, educated or
unlettered, discouraged and hopeless, or determined and resolute,
I send you a message of hope, a message which, in the words of Dr.
Russell R. Conwell, "has been affirmed and reaffirmed in the
thousands of lives I have been privileged to watch. And the
message is this: Neither heredity nor environment nor any
obstacles superimposed by man can keep you from marching straight
through to a cure, provided you are guided by a firm driving
determination and have normal health and intelligence." To that
end I commend to you the succeeding pages of this volume, where
you will find in plain and simple language the things which I have
spent more than thirty years in learning. May these pages open for
you the door to freedom of speech--as they have opened it for
hundreds before you.





PART II

STAMMERING AND STUTTERING

The Causes, Peculiarities, Tendencies and Effects





CHAPTER I

SPEECH DISORDERS DEFINED


In the diagnosis of speech disorders, there are almost as many
different forms of defective utterance as there are cases, all of
which forms, however, divide themselves into a few basic types.
These various disorders might be broadly classified into three
classes:

    (1)--Those resulting from carelessness in learning to speak;
    (2)--Those which are of distinct mental form; and
    (3)--Those caused by a physical deformity in the organs of
         speech themselves.

Regardless of under which of these three heads a speech disorder
may come, it is commonly spoken of by the laymen as a "speech
impediment" or "a stoppage in speech" notwithstanding the fact
that the characteristics of the various disorders are quite
dissimilar. In certain of the disorders,

    (a)--There is an inability to release a word; in others,
    (b)--A tendency to repeat a syllable several times before
         the following syllable can be uttered; in others,
    (c)--The tendency to substitute an incorrect sound for the
         correct one; while in others,
    (d)--The utterance is defective merely in the imperfect
         enunciation of sounds and syllables due to some organic
         defect, or to carelessness in learning to speak.

While this volume has but little to do with speech disorders other
than stammering and stuttering, the characteristics of the more
common forms of speech impediment--lisping, cluttering and
hesitation, as well as stuttering and stammering--will be
discussed in this first chapter, in order that the reader may be
able, in a general way at least, to differentiate between the
various disorders.

LISPING

This is a very common form of speech disorder and one which
manifests itself early in the life of the child. Lisping may be
divided into three forms:

    (1)--Negligent Lisping
    (2)--Neurotic Lisping
    (3)--Organic Lisping

NEGLIGENT LISPING: This is a form of defective enunciation caused
in most cases by parental neglect or the carelessness of the child
himself in the pronunciation of words during the first few months
of talking. This defective pronunciation in Negligent Lisping is
caused either by a FAILURE or an INABILITY to observe others who
speak correctly. We learn to speak by imitation, and failing to
observe the correct method of speaking in others, we naturally
fail to speak correctly ourselves. In Negligent Lisping, this
inability properly to imitate correct speech processes, results in
the substitution of an incorrect sound for the correct one with
consequent faulty formation of words.

ORGANIC LISPING: This results from an organic or physical defect
in the vocal organs, such as hare-lip, feeble lip, malformation of
the tongue, defective teeth, overshot or undershot jaw, high
palatal arch, cleft palate, defective palate, relaxed palate
following an operation for adenoids, obstructed nasal passages or
defective hearing.

NEUROTIC LISPING: This is a form of speech marked by short, rapid
muscular contractions instead of the smooth and easy action used
in producing normal sounds. Neurotic Lisping is often found to be
combined with stammering or stuttering, which is quite logical,
since it is similar, both as to CAUSE and as to the presence of a
MENTAL DISTURBANCE. In Neurotic Lisping, the muscular movements
are less spasmodic than in cases of stuttering, partaking more of
the cramped sticking movement, common in stammering.

STUTTERING

Stuttering may be generally defined as the repetition--rapid in
some cases, slow in others--of a word or a syllable, before the
following word or syllable can be uttered. Stuttering may take
several forms, any one of which will fall into one of four phases:

    (1)--Simple Phase
    (2)--Advanced Phase
    (3)--Mental Phase
    (4)--Compound Phase

Simple stuttering can be said to be a purely physical form of the
difficulty. The Advanced Phase marks the stage of further progress
where the trouble passes from the purely physical state into a
condition that may be known as Mental-Physical. The distinctly
Mental Phase is marked by symptoms indicating a mental cause for
the trouble, the disorder usually having passed into this form
from the simple or advanced stages of the malady. Stuttering may
be combined with stammering in which case the condition represents
the Compound Phase of the trouble.

CHOREATIC STUTTERING: This originates in an attack of Acute Chorea
or St. Vitus Dance, which leaves the sufferer in a condition where
involuntary and spasmodic muscular contractions, especially of the
face, have become an established habit. This breaks up the speech
in a manner somewhat similar to ordinary stuttering. Also known as
"Tic Speech."

SPASTIC SPEECH: This is often the result of infantile cerebral
palsy, the characteristic symptom of the trouble being intense
over-exertion, continued throughout a sentence, the syllables
being equal in length and very laboriously enunciated. In spastic
speech, there is present a noticeable hyper-tonicity of the nerve
fibers actuating the muscles used in speaking as well as marked
contractions of the facial muscles.

UNCONSCIOUS STUTTERING: This is a misnomer because there can be no
such thing as unconscious stuttering. It appears that the person
afflicted is not conscious of his difficulty for he insists that
he does not s-s-s-s-tut-tut-tut-ter. Unconscious Stuttering is but
a name for the disorder of a stutterer who is too stubborn to
admit his own difficulty.

THOUGHT STUTTERING: This is an advanced form of stuttering which
is also known as Aphasia and which is caused by the inability of
the sufferer to recall the mental images necessary to the
formation of a word. Stuttering in its simpler forms is usually
connected with the period of childhood, while aphasia is often
connected with old age or injury. The aphasic person is
excessively nervous as is the stutterer; he undergoes the same
anxiety to get his words out and the same fear of being
ridiculous. In aphasia there is, however, no excessive muscular
tension or cramp of the speech muscles. In these cases, the
stutterer will sometimes repeat the first syllable ten or fifteen
times with pauses between, being for a time unable to recall what
the second syllable is. It is, in other words, a habitual, but
nevertheless temporary, inability to recall to mind the mental
images necessary to produce the word or syllable desired to be
spoken. This condition is more commonly known as Thought Lapse or
the inability to think of what you desire to say.

One investigator shows that the diagnosis of "insanity" with later
commitment to an asylum occurred in the case of a bad stutterer.
When excited he would go through the most extreme contortions and
the wildest gesticulations in a vain attempt to finally get all of
the word out, finally pacing up and down the room like one truly
insane. This tendency to believe that the stutterer is insane
because of the convulsive or spasmodic effort accompanying his
efforts to speak, is a mistaken one, although there can be little
doubt of the tendency of this condition finally to lead to
insanity if not checked.

HESITATION

Hesitation is marked by a silent, choking effort, often
accompanied by a fruitless opening and closing of the mouth.
Hesitation is a stage through which the sufferer usually passes
before he reaches the condition known as Elementary Stammering.

STAMMERING

Stammering is a condition in which the person afflicted is unable
to begin a word or a sentence no matter how much effort may be
directed toward the attempt to speak, or how well they may know
what they wish to say. In stammering, there is the "sticking" as
the stammerer terms it, or the inability to express a sound. The
difference between stammering and stuttering lies in the fact that
in stuttering, the disorder manifests itself in loose and hurried
(or in some cases, slow) repetitions of sounds, syllables or
words, while in the case of stammering, the manifestation takes
the form of an inability to express a sound, or to begin a word or
a sentence.

ELEMENTARY STAMMERING: This is the simplest form of this disorder.
Here, the convulsive effort is not especially noticeable and the
marked results of long-continued stammering are not apparent. Most
cases pass quickly from the elementary stage unless checked in
their incipiency.

SPASMODIC STAMMERING: This marks the stage of the disorder where
the effort to speak brings about marked muscular contractions and
pronounced spasmodic efforts, resulting in all sorts of facial
contortions, grimaces and uncontrolled jerkings of the head, body
and limbs.

THOUGHT STAMMERING: This, like Thought-Stuttering, is a form of
Aphasia and manifests itself in the inability of the stammerer to
think of what he wishes to say. In other words, the thought-
stammerer, like the thought-stutterer, is unable to recall the
mental images necessary to the production of a certain word or
sound--and is, therefore, unable to produce sounds correctly. The
manifestations described under Thought Stuttering are present in
Thought Stammering also.

COMBINED STAMMERING AND STUTTERING: This is a compound
form of difficulty in which the sufferer finds himself at times not only
unable to utter a sound or begin a word or a sentence but also is
found to repeat a sound or syllable several times before the
following syllable can be uttered. Any case of stuttering or
stammering in the Simple or Elementary Stages may pass into
Combined Stammering and Stuttering without warning or without the
knowledge, even, of the stammerer or stutterer.





CHAPTER II

THE CAUSES OF STUTTERING AND STAMMERING


One of the first questions asked by the stutterer or stammerer is,
"What is the cause of my trouble?" In asking this question, the
stammerer is getting at the very essence of the successful method
of treatment of his malady, for there is no method of curing
stuttering, stammering and kindred defects of speech that can
bring real and permanent relief from the affliction unless it
attacks the cause of the trouble and removes that cause.

Inasmuch as this book has to do almost entirely with the two
defective forms of utterance known as stuttering and stammering,
we will at this time drop all reference to the other forms of
speech impediments and from this time forth refer only to
stuttering and stammering.

These forms of defective speech are manifested by the inability to
express words in the normal, natural manner--freely and fluently.
In other words, there is a marked departure from the normal in the
methods used by the stammerer in the production of speech. It is
necessary, therefore, before taking up the discussion of the
causes of stuttering and stammering, to determine the method by
which voice is produced in the normal individual, so that we can
compare this normal production of speech with the faulty method
adopted by the stutterer or stammerer and learn where the fault is
and what is the cause of it.

Let us now proceed to do this: In other words, let us ask the
question: "How is speech produced in the normal person not
afflicted with defective utterance?"

Voice is produced by the vocal organs much in the same manner as
sounds are produced on a saxophone or clarinet, by forcing a
current of air through an aperture over which is a reed which
vibrates with the sounds. The low tones produced by the saxophone
or clarinet result from the enlargement of the aperture, while the
higher tones are produced by contracting the opening. Variations
of pitch in the human voice are also effected by elongation and
contraction of the vocal cords with comparative slackness or
tension, as in the violin.

It would be of no value, and, in fact, would only serve to confuse
the layman, to know the duties or functions of the various organs
or parts entering into the production of speech. Suffice it to say
that in the "manufacture" of words, there are concerned the
glottis, the larynx, thorax, diaphragm, lungs, soft palate,
tongue, teeth and lips. In the production of the sounds and the
combination of sounds that we call words, each of these organs of
speech has its own particular duty to perform and the failure of
any one of these organs properly to perform that duty may result
in defective utterance of some form.

BRAIN CONTROL: It must be borne in mind that for any one or all of
the organs of speech to become operative or to manifest any
action, they must be innervated or activated by impulses
originating in the brain.

For instance, if it is necessary that the glottis be contracted to
a point which we will call "half-open" for the production of a
certain sound, the brain must first send a message to that organ
before the necessary movement can take place. In saying the word
"you," for instance, it would be necessary for the tongue to press
tip against the base of the lower row of front teeth. But before
the tongue can assume that position, it is necessary that the
brain send to the tongue a message directing what is to be done.

When the number of different organs involved in the production of
the simplest word of one syllable is considered (such as the word
"you" just mentioned), and when it is further considered that
separate brain messages must be sent to each of the organs,
muscles or parts concerned in the production of that word, then it
will be understood that the process of speaking is a most
complicated one, involving not only numerous physical organs but
also intricate mental processes.

When all of the organs concerned in the production of speech are
working properly and when the brain sends prompt and correct brain
impulses to them, the result is perfect speech, the free, fluent
and easy conversation of the good talker. But when any or all of
these organs fail to function properly, due to inco-ordination,
the result is discord--and defective utterance.

CAUSE OF DEFECTIVE UTTERANCE: Now, let us consider the cause of
defective utterance. What is it that causes the organ, muscle or
parts to fail properly to function? The first and most obvious
conclusion would be that there was some inherent defect in the
organ, muscle or part which failed to function. But experience has
proved that this is usually not the case. An examination of two
thousand cases of defective utterance, including many others
besides stuttering and stammering, revealed three-tenths of one
per cent. with an organic defect--that is, a defect in the organs
themselves. In other words, only three persons out of every
thousand afflicted with defective utterance were found to have any
physical shortcoming that was responsible for the affliction.

Take any of these two thousand cases--say those that stammered,
for instance. What was the cause of their difficulty, if it did
not lie in the organs used in the production of speech? This is
the question that long puzzled investigators in the field of
speech defects. Like Darwin, they said: "It must be this, for if
it is not this, then what is it?" If stuttering and stammering are
not caused by actual physical defects in the organs themselves,
what then can be the cause?

DUE TO A LACK OF CO-ORDINATION: Cases of stammering and stuttering
where no organic defect is present are due to a lack of co-
ordination between the brain and the muscles of speech. In other
words, the harmony between the brain and the speech organs which
normally result in smooth working and perfect speech has been
interrupted. The brain impulses are no longer properly transmitted
to and executed by the muscles of speech.

This failure to transmit properly brain messages or this lack of
co-ordination may take one of two forms: it may result in an
UNDER-innervation of the organs of speech, which results in loose,
uncontrolled repetitions of a word, sound or syllable, or it may
take the form of an overinnervation of the vocal organ with the
result that it is so intensely contracted as to be entirely
closed, causing the "sticking" or inability to pronounce even a
sound, so common to the stammerer.

Suppose that you try to say the word "tray." Do not articulate the
sounds. Merely make the initial effort to say it. What happens?
Simply this: The tip of the tongue comes in contact with the upper
front teeth at their base and as you progress in your attempt to
say "t," the tongue flattens itself against the roof of the mouth,
moving from the tip of the tongue toward its base. If you are a
stammerer, you will probably find in endeavoring to say this word,
that your vocal organs fail to respond quickly and correctly to
the set of brain messages which should result in the proper
enunciation of the word "tray." Your tongue clings to the roof of
your mouth, your mouth remains open, you suffer a rush of blood to
the face, due to your powerful and unsuccessful effort to
articulate, and the word refuses to be spoken.

Now, in order to dissociate "lack of co-ordination," from
stammering and to get an idea of its real nature, let us imagine
an experiment which can be conducted by any one, whether they
stammer or not.

You see on the table before you a pencil. You want to write and
consequently you want to pick up the pencil. Therefore, your brain
sends a message to your thumb and forefinger, saying, "Pick up the
pencil." Your brain does not, of course, express that command in
words, but sends a brain impulse based upon the kinaesthetic or
motor image of the muscular action necessary to accomplish that
act. But for our purpose in this experiment, we can assume that
the brain sends the message in terms which, if interpreted in
words, would be "pick up the pencil." Suppose that when that brain
message reaches your thumb and forefinger, instead of reaching for
the pencil, they immediately close and clap or stick, refusing to
act. Your hand is unable to pick up the pencil. That, then, is
similar to stammering. The hand is doing practically what the
vocal organs do when the stammerer attempts to speak and fails.
But, on the other hand, if, when the message was received by your
thumb and finger, it made short, successive attempts to pick up
the pencil, but failed to accomplish it, then you could compare
that failure to the uncontrolled repetitions of stuttering. This
inability to control the action of the thumb and forefinger would
be the result of a lack of co-ordination between the brain and the
muscles of the hand, while stuttering or stammering is the result
of a lack of co-ordination between the brain and the muscles of
speech.

WHAT CAUSES LACK OF CO-ORDINATION: But even after it is known that
stuttering and stammering are caused by a lack of co-ordination
between the brain and the organs of speech, still, the mind of
scientific and inquiring trend must ask, "What causes the lack of
co-ordination?" And that question is quite in order. It is plain
that the lack of co-ordination does not exist without a cause.
What, then, is this cause?

An inquiry into the cause of the inco-ordination between brain and
speech-organs leads us to an examination of the original or basic
causes of stammering. These original or basic causes in their
various ramifications are almost as numerous as the cases of
speech disorders themselves, but they fall into a comparatively
few well-defined classes.

These original causes in many cases do not appear to have been the
direct and immediate cause of the trouble, but rather a
predisposing cause or a cause which brought about a condition that
later developed into stuttering or stammering.

Let us set down a list of the more common of these causes, not
with the expectation of having the list complete but rather of
giving facts about the representative or more common Basic
Predisposing Causes of Stuttering and Stammering.

A little more than 96 per cent. of the causes of stammering which
the author has examined can be traced back to one of the five
causes shown below:

    1--Mimicry or Imitation
    2--Fright or severe nerve shock
    3--Fall or injury of some sort
    4--Heredity
    5--Disease

Let us take up these familiar causes of stuttering or stammering
in the order in which we have set them down and learn something
more of them.

The first and one of the most common causes is Mimicry, or, as it
is probably more often called, Imitation. Mimicry or Imitation is
almost wholly confined to children. After reaching the age of
discretion, the adult is usually of sufficient intelligence to
refrain from mimicking or imitating a person who stutters or
stammers.

The average small boy, however, (or girl, for that matter) seems
to find delight in mocking and imitating a playmate who stutters
or stammers, and so keen is this delight that he persists in this
practice day after day until (as its own punishment) the practice
of mockery or mimicry brings upon the boy himself the affliction
in which he found his fun.

It may be noted, however, that Imitation is not always conscious,
but often unconscious. The small child begins to imitate the
stuttering companion without knowing that he engages in imitation.
This practice, notwithstanding the fact that it is unconscious,
soon develops into stuttering, without any cause being assignable
by the parent until investigation develops that unconscious and
even unnoticed imitation is the basic cause of the defective
utterance.

It has been definitely determined that stuttering may be
communicable through contagious impressions, especially among
children of tender age whose minds are subject to the slightest
impressions.

For this reason, it is not advisable for parents to allow children
to play with others who stutter or stammer, nor is it charitable
to allow a child who stutters or stammers to play with other
children who are not so afflicted.

So far-reaching are the effects of Imitation or Mimicry that in
certain cases, children have been known to contract stuttering
from associating with a deaf-mute whose expressions were made
chiefly in the form of grunts and inarticulate sounds.

FRIGHT OR SEVERE NERVE SHOCK: Another common cause of stammering
is fright or nervous shock, which may have been brought about in
countless ways. One boy who came to me some time ago stated that
he had swallowed a nail when about six years of age and that this
was the cause of his stammering. The logical conclusion in a case
like this would be that the nail had injured the vocal organs, but
an examination proved that there was no organic defect and that
the stammering was caused, not by injury directly to the vocal
organs but by the nervous shock occasioned by swallowing the nail.

Another case was that of a stammerer who reported that he had been
given carbolic acid, by mistake, when a child and that he had
stammered ever since. This, like the case of the boy who swallowed
the nail, might be expected to prove a case of absolute physical
injury or impairment of the vocal chords, but once again, it was
clear that such was not the case and that the stammering was
brought about solely from the nervous shock which came as a result
of taking carbolic acid.

There is still another case of a boy who felt that he was
continually being followed. This was of course merely a
hallucination, but the fright that this boy's state of mind
brought on soon caused him to stutter and stammer in a very
pronounced manner.

Fright is a prolific cause of stuttering in small children and may
be traced in a great many cases to parents or nurses who persist
in telling children stories of a frightful nature, or who, as a
means of discipline, scare them by locking them up in the cellar,
the closet or the garret. To these scare-tales told to children
should be added the misguided practice of telling children that
"the bogey-man will get you" or "the policeman is after you" or
some such tale to enforce parental commands. An instance is
recalled of a woman who created out of a morbid imagination a
phantom of terrible mien, who abode in the garret and was
constantly lying in wait for the small children of the household
with the professed intention of "eating them alive."

Such disciplinary methods of parents savor much of the Inquisition
and the Dark Ages and should, for the good of the children and the
future generation they represent, be totally abolished. While
these methods do not, in every case, result in stuttering or
stammering, they make the child of a nervous disposition and lay
him liable in later years to the afflictions which accompany
nervous disorders. In some cases "tickling" a child has caused
stammering or stuttering. Care should be exercised here as well,
for prolonged tickling brings about intense muscular contraction
especially of the diaphragmatic muscles, which contraction is
accompanied by an agitated mental condition as well as extreme
nervousness, all of which approaches very closely to the
combination of abnormal conditions which are found to be present
in stammering or stuttering.

FALL OR INJURY AS A CAUSE: Step into any gathering of average
American parents for a half-hour and if the subject of the
children should come up, you are sure to hear one or more dramatic
recitals of the falls and injuries suffered by the junior members
of the household, from the first time that Johnny fell out of bed
and frightened his mother nearly to death, to the day that he was
in an automobile crash at the age of 23. And these tales are
always closed with the profound bit of confided information that
these falls are of no consequence--"nothing ever comes of them."

While in a great measure this is true, there are many falls and
injuries suffered in childhood which are responsible for the ills
of later life, although it is seldom indeed that they are blamed
for the results which they bring about.

Injuries and falls are a frequent cause of stuttering and
stammering. Usually, however, an injury results in stuttering or
stammering, not because of any change in the physical structure
brought about by the injury but rather by the nervous shock
attending it. In other words, cases of stammering and stuttering
caused apparently by injury might, if desired, be traced still
further back, showing as the initial cause an injury but as a
direct cause the fright or nervous shock resulting from that
injury.

A good example of this is found in a case of a young man who came
to me some years ago. He said: "When I was about five years old,
my brother and I were playing in the cellar and I wanted to jump
off the top step. When I jumped, I hit my head on the cross-piece
and it knocked me back on the steps and I slid down on my back,
and ever since, for ten years, I have stammered."

Here is a case where the blow on the head, or the succession of
blows on the spinal column as the boy slid down the stairs, might
have been the cause of the trouble. More probably, it was the
combined injury, undoubtedly resulting in a severe nervous shock
from which the boy probably did not recover for many days.

Another man said, in describing his case during an examination:
"At the age of 16, I was hit on the head with a ball. I lost my
memory for one week and when I regained it, I was a stammerer."
This is a plain case of injury resulting in immediate stammering.

Still another case is that of a boy who, at the age of three, was
shot in the neck by a rifle, the bullet coming out of his chin,
which resulted in his becoming an immediate stammerer. Here, as in
the case of the boy who swallowed the nail, it might be expected
that the cause was a defect in the organs of speech, but I found
stammering was brought on by the nervous shock.

From these few cases of actual occurrences, it will be seen that
practically all cases of stammering caused by injury can be traced
to the NERVOUS SHOCK brought about by the injury.

HEREDITY AS A CAUSE: There is little that need be said on the
subject of heredity as a cause of stuttering and stammering, save
that heredity is a common cause and that children of stuttering or
stammering parents usually stammer. In this, as in the case of any
malady hereditarily transmitted, it is difficult to say whether
the trouble is caused by inheritance or by constant and intimate
association of the child with his parents during the period of
early speech development.

THE RESULT OF DISEASE: Many cases of both stammering and
stuttering may be traced back to disease as the basic or
predisposing cause. Acute Chorea (St. Vitus Dance) is frequently
the cause of stuttering of a type known as Choreatic Stuttering or
"Tic Speech." Infantile Cerebral Palsy sometimes brings about a
condition known as "Spastic Speech," while whooping cough, scarlet
fever, measles, meningitis, infantile paralysis, scrofula and
rickets are sometimes responsible for the disorder.

Disease may cause stuttering or stammering as an immediate after
effect or the speech trouble may not show up for considerable
time, depending altogether upon the individual. But regardless of
the length of time elasping between the disease which predisposes
the individual to the speech disorder and the time of the first
evidence of its presence, diagnosis reveals but an insignificant
percentage of organic defects in these cases resulting from
disease, indicating that even here the predominant causative
factor is a mental one.





CHAPTER III

THE PECULIARITIES OF STUTTERING AND STAMMERING


Each individual case of stuttering or stammering has its own
peculiarities, already more or less developed--arising from
structural differences (but not necessarily defects) in the organs
of speech, as well as differences in temperament, health and
nervousness; or peculiarities arising from habit--which is the
result of previous training or neglect, as the case may be.

SING WITHOUT DIFFICULTY: Almost without exception, the stutterer
or stammerer can sing without any difficulty, can talk to animals
without stuttering or stammering, can talk when alone and in some
cases can talk perfectly in a whisper. Some stammerers have less
difficulty in talking to strangers than in talking to friends or
relatives while in other cases, the condition is exactly reversed.
A stutterer or stammerer almost always experiences difficulty in
speaking over the telephone. One experimenter has shown, however,
that a stammerer can talk perfectly over the telephone so long as
the receiver hook is depressed and there is no connection with
another person at the other end of the line. This experimenter
shows that immediately the receiver hook is released and a
connection is established, the halting, stumbling utterance
begins.

These peculiarities of stuttering and stammering for many years
puzzled investigators and were, in fact, finally responsible for
arriving at the true cause of stammering.

Almost every stammerer seeks for an explanation of these peculiar
manifestations. Why is it, for instance, that a stammerer can sing
without difficulty, although he cannot talk? This is one of the
best evidences that could be produced to show that stammering is
the result of a lack of mental control. The stammerer who can sing
without difficulty has no organic or inherent defect in the vocal
organs, that is sure. If the stammerer can sing, and if this
proves that he has no organic defect, then it follows logically
that the cause of his trouble is mental and not physical.

TALK WHEN ALONE: The fact that a stammerer can talk without
hesitation when alone and that he can talk to animals may be
explained by a very simple illustration--any stammerer can try
this experiment on one of his friends who does not stammer. He can
prove that the reflex, or what might be termed subconscious
movements of the bodily organs are more nearly normal than the
same movements consciously controlled. Take, for instance, the
regular beating of the pulse. Let anyone who does not stammer (it
makes no difference in trying this experiment whether the person
stammers or not, save that we are trying to prove that the
condition may be brought about in one who is not a stammerer) feel
his own pulse for sixty seconds. Let him be thoroughly conscious
of this effort to learn the rapidity of its beating. If a
disinterested observer could record the pulse as normally beating
and the pulse under the conscious influence of the mind, it would
be found that the pulse under the conscious effort is beating
either more rapidly or more slowly or that it is not beating as
regularly as in the case of unconscious or reflex action.

This same condition may be noticed in another unconscious or
reflex action--breathing. The moment you become conscious of an
attempt to breathe regularly, breathing becomes difficult,
restricted, irregular, whereas this same action, when unconscious,
is thoroughly regular and even.

In the average or normal person who has learned to talk correctly,
speaking should be practically an unconscious process. It should
not be necessary to make a conscious effort to form words, nor
should a normal individual be conscious of the energy necessary to
create a word or the muscular movements necessary to its formation
and expression.

This will explain why the stutterer or stammerer can talk without
difficulty to animals or when alone--there is no self-
consciousness--no conscious effort--no thinking of what is being
done.

Another of the peculiarities of stammering is that the stammerer
in many cases seems to be able to talk perfectly in concert. This
has long baffled the investigator in this field, no reason being
assignable for this ability to talk in connection with others. The
baffling element has been this--that the investigator has assumed
that the stammerer talked well in concert, whereas a very careful
scientist would have discovered the stammerer to be a fraction of
a second or a part of a syllable behind the others.

You have doubtless been in church at some time when you were not
entirely familiar with the hymn being sung, yet by lagging a note
or two behind the rest, you could sing the song, to all
appearances being right along with the others.

When you talk over the long-distance telephone, the voice seems
instantly to reach the party at the other end of the line, yet we
know that a period of time has had to elapse to allow the voice
waves to move along the telephone wire and reach the other end.
The elapse of time has been too slight to be noted by the average
human mind and the transmission seems instantaneous. This is what
happens in the case of the stammerer who seems able to talk in
concert--he is merely a syllable or part of a syllable behind the
rest, all the while giving the impression nevertheless, that he is
talking just as they are.

There are many other individual peculiarities which can be
described by almost every stammerer. These different peculiarities
are more numerous than the cases of stammering and it would be
useless to attempt to discuss them in detail. I will take up only
two as being typical of dozens which have come under my
observation in twenty-eight years' experience.

One stammerer explains his difficulty as follows: "I find I am
unable to talk and do something else at the same time. For
instance, I have difficulty in talking while dancing, while at the
table or while listening to music. If, for instance, I wish to
talk to any one while the Victrola is being played, I
unconsciously cut it off." This is a case where the stammerer
finds that all of his faculties must be concentrated upon a
supreme effort to speak before this becomes possible. In other
words, he has not yet learned to control sufficiently the
different parts of his body so that they may act independently.
This might be termed a lack of independent co-ordination.

In the case of another young man, he found himself unable to
control the movements of his muscles. In describing his trouble,
he said: "At one time, when I was talking particularly bad, I was
out with some other fellows driving our car. I started to talk,
found it almost impossible and noticed a sharp twitching of the
muscles of face, arms and limbs. Try as I might, I found I could
not control these movements and in another minute I had steered
the car into the ditch and wrecked it. And now," adds the young
man, "although father has a new car, I am never allowed to drive
it!"

Here was a case where the spasmodic action of the muscles had
gotten so far beyond control as to make the ordinary pursuits of
life dangerous to the young man who stammered. These spasmodic
movements were always present--he told of one occasion when he was
in a barber's chair being shaved. He attempted to say a word or
two while the barber was at work upon him, with the result that he
lost control of the muscles of face and neck, causing the barber
to cut a long gash in his neck.

This was, of course, an abnormal case of spasmodic stammering,
evidencing extraordinary muscular contractions of the worst type.
In practically every case of stammering some such peculiarity is
evident, resulting from the inability of the stammerer's brain to
control physical actions.





CHAPTER IV

THE INTERMITTENT TENDENCY


Paradoxical as the statement may seem, it is nevertheless true
that one of the symptoms of least seeming importance marks one of
the most dangerous aspects of both stuttering and stammering.

This is the alternating good-and-bad condition known as the
Intermittent Tendency or the tendency of the stutterer or
stammerer to show marked improvement at times.

This seeming improvement brings about a feeling of relief, the
unreasoning fear of failure seems for the time to have left almost
entirely; the mental strain under which the sufferer ordinarily
labors seems to be no longer present; there is but little worry
about either present condition or future prospects; the nervous
condition seems to have very materially improved, self-confidence
returns quickly and with it the hope that the trouble is gone
forever or is at least rapidly disappearing. With these
manifestations of improvement come also a greater ease in
concentration, a greater and more facile power-of-will and an
ambition that shows signs of rekindling, with worth-while
accomplishments in prospect.

Hope now burns high in the breast of the stutterer or stammerer.
They go about smiling inwardly if not outwardly, happy as the
proud father of a new boy, at peace with the world. The sun shines
brighter than it has for months or years. Every one seems much
more pleasant and agreeable. Things which the day before seemed
totally impossible seem now to come within their range of
accomplishment. Such is the feeling of the confirmed stutterer or
stammerer during the time of this pseudo-freedom from his speech
disorder.

In his own mind, the sufferer is quite sure that his malady has
disappeared over-night, like a bad dream and that freedom of
speech has been bestowed upon him as a gift from the gods on high.

The higher the hopes of the sufferer and the greater the assurance
with which he pursues the activities of his day, the greater is
his disappointment and despair when the inevitable relapse
overtakes him.

For disappointment and despair are sure to come--just as sure as
the sun is to rise in the heavens in the morning. The condition of
relief is but temporary, and will soon pass away to be followed by
a return of his old trouble in a form more aggravated than ever
before.

Fate seems to play with the stammerer's affliction as a cat plays
with a mouse, allowing him to be free for a few hours, a few days
or a few weeks as the case may be, only to drag the dejected
sufferer back to his former condition--or, as is true in many
cases, worse than before.

THE RECURRENCE: With the return of the trouble, the bodily and
mental reaction are almost too great for the human mechanism to
withstand. Hope seems to be a word which has been lost from the
life of the stammerer. The fear of failure returns with an
overwhelming force mocking the sufferer with the thought of "Oh,
how I deceived you!!"; the mental strain is exceedingly great--so
great, in fact, that it seems as if the breaking point has almost
been reached. The nervous condition is alarming, the sufferer
noting in himself an inability to work, to play, to study or even
to sit still. An observer would note the stammerer or stutterer in
this condition fingering his coat lapels, putting his hands in his
pockets and removing them again, biting his finger nails,
constantly shifting eyes, head, arms and feet about. If at home,
the sufferer in this condition would probably be seen walking
about the house, unable to read, to play or listen to music or to
follow any of the accustomed activities of his life. If in
business or in the shop, he would be noticed making frequent trips
to the wash room, to the drinking fountain, to the foreman,
picking up and laying down his tools, looking out the window,
shifting from one foot to another, all of which symptoms indicate
an acute nervous condition, brought about by the return of his
trouble.

At this stage, the stammerer's confidence is hopelessly gone, so
it seems, and this feeling is accompanied by one of depression
which finds an outlet in the expression of the firm belief and
conviction on the part of the stutterer or stammerer that the
disorder can NEVER be cured, by any method, although just the day
before the same sufferer would have insisted that his stuttering
or stammering had CURED ITSELF and left of its own accord.

These conditions, both at the time of the so-called improvement
and at the time of the recurrence of the trouble, will appear in
greater or less degree in the case of every stutterer or stammerer
whose trouble is of the intermittent type.

THE DANGERS OF THIS TENDENCY: This period of recurrence is
accompanied by almost total loss of the power-of-will, a marked
weakening in the ability to concentrate, and if it does not result
in insomnia (inability to sleep) puts the mind in such a state as
to make sleep of little value in building up the body, replacing
worn-out tissue cells and restoring vital energy.

The chief danger, however, resulting from these periods of
temporary improvement, is the belief that it instills into the
mind of the sufferer and more frequently into the minds of the
parents of stuttering or stammering children, that the trouble
will cure itself--a fallacy greater than which there is none.

Stuttering and stammering are destructive maladies. They tear down
both body and mind but they have not the slightest power to build
up. And until a strong mental and physical structure has been
built up in place of the weakened structure (which results in
stammering and stuttering) a cure is out of the question.





CHAPTER V

THE PROGRESSIVE TENDENCY


The spell of intense recurrence of either stammering or stuttering
which follows a period of improvement, often marks the period of
transition from one stage of the disorder into the next and more
serious stage. This transition, however, may not be a conscious
process--that is, the sufferer may not in any way be informed of
the fact that he is passing into a more serious stage of his
trouble save that after the transition has taken place, he may
find himself a chronic or constant stammerer and in a nervous and
mental condition much more acute than ever before.

Dr. Alexander Melville Bell (father of Alexander Graham Bell,
inventor of the telephone), who, before his death, was a speech
expert of unquestioned repute, discovered this condition many
years ago and in his work PRINCIPLES OF SPEECH speaks of it as
follows (page 234):

"Often the transition from simple to more complicated forms of
difficulty is so rapid, that it cannot be traced or anticipated.
Perhaps some slight ailment may imperceptibly introduce the higher
impediment or some evil example may draw the ill-mastered
utterance at onee into the vortex of the difficulty."

This Progressive Tendency, which we shall hereafter call the
Progressive Character of the trouble in order to distinguish it
from the Intermittent Tendency, is present in more than 98 per
cent, of the cases of stammering and stuttering which I have
examined and diagnosed.

True, there are many cases, the apparent or manifest tendencies of
which do not indicate that the disorder is becoming more serious,
but nevertheless this condition is no indication that the trouble
is not busily at work tearing out the foundation of mental and
bodily perfection.

SUCCESSIVE STAGES: Stuttering may be conveniently divided into
four stages, by which its progress may be measured. These may be
designated in their order as:

    1--Simple Phase
    2--Advanced Phase
    3--Mental Phase
    4--Compound Phase

The progress of the disorder is sure. Take the case of a child
eight years of age who has a case of simple stuttering. Permit the
child to go without attention for some time and the trouble will
have progressed into the Advanced Phase, usually without the
knowledge of the child or his parents or without any especially
noticeable surface change in his condition.

Stuttering in its first phase--Simple Stuttering--can justly be
called a physical and not a mental trouble. In this stage, the
disorder should be easily eradicated. The duration of cases of
Simple Stuttering is very slight, for the reason that Simple
Stuttering soon passes into the Advanced Phase, which is of a
physical-mental nature, exhibiting the symptoms of a mental
disturbance as well as of a physical difficulty.

From the Advanced Phase stuttering then passes into the Mental
Phase, where the mental strain is found to be greatly intensified
and the disorder a distinct mental type instead of a physical or
physical-mental trouble.

When stuttering in this stage is permitted to continue its hold
upon the sufferer, the continued strain, worry and fear bring
about a condition of extraordinary malignancy, in which the
trouble develops into the Chronic Mental Stage. This is a
condition bordering upon mental breakdown and even though the
complete breakdown never occurs, the one afflicted finds himself a
chronic stutterer, without surcease from his trouble. He further
finds that he has increasing difficulty in thinking of the things
which he wishes to say. He seems to know, but his mind refuses to
frame the thought. In other words, he is unable to recall the
mental image of the word in mind, and is therefore unable to speak
the word. This is a condition known as Aphasia or Thought Lapse
and represents a most serious stage of the difficulty, in many
cases totally beyond the possibility of relief--a condition in
which no stutterer should allow himself to get.

Stammering, being a kindred condition to stuttering, progresses
from bad to worse in a manner very similar. The progress of
stammering may be classified into successive stages as follows:

    1--Elementary Stage
    2--Spasmodic Stage
    3--Primary Mental Stage
    4--Chronic Mental Stage
    5--Compound Stage

Stammering in the Elementary Stage, like Stuttering, is a Physical
Trouble. The Stammerer has often been known to remain in the
Elementary Stage only a few days or a few weeks, passing almost
immediately into either the Spasmodic or the Primary Mental Stage.
Not all stammerers pass into the Spasmodic Stage of the disorder,
however, some passing directly into Primary Mental Stage.

The Spasmodic Stage, however, is a form of difficulty somewhat
akin to the Advanced Phase of Stuttering, for in this stage the
trouble can be said to be of Physical-Mental nature instead of the
purely physical disorder found in Elementary Stammering.

Stammering, in the Primary Mental Stage, takes on a distinct
Mental form as differentiated from the Mental-Physical form and
becomes therefore more difficult to eradicate. If allowed to
continue, this form of Stammering (like Stuttering) passes into
the Chronic Mental Stage, in which case the Stammerer usually
exhibits pronounced signs of Thought Lapse and finds himself a
Chronic or Constant Stammerer, often unable to utter a sound-and
further at times unable to THINK of what he wishes to say.

The progress of both Stuttering and Stammering from one stage to
another is very certain. These speech disorders do not differ
materially from other human afflictions in this respect--they do
not remain constant. There is an axiom in Nature, that "Nothing is
static," which, being interpreted, means, that nothing stands
still. And this applies with full force to the stutterer or
stammerer. If no steps are taken to remedy the malady, he may be
very sure that the disorder is getting worse--not standing still
or remaining the same.





CHAPTER VI

CAN STAMMERING AND STUTTERING BE OUTGROWN?


Probably the most harmful and oft-repeated bit of advice ever
given to a stammerer or stutterer is that which says, "Oh, don't
bother about it--you will soon outgrow the trouble!" It is the
most harmful because it is palpably untrue. It is so oft-repeated
because the person giving the advice knows nothing whatever about
the cause of stammering and just as little about its progress or
treatment.

The fact that we hear of no cases of stuttering or stammering
which have been outgrown does not seem to alter the popular and
totally unfounded belief that stammering and stuttering can be
readily outgrown.

If the reader has not read the chapter on the causes of stuttering
and stammering and the two preceding chapters on the Intermittent
Tendency and the Progressive Character of these speech disorders,
then these chapters should be read carefully before going further
with this one, because it is essential to know the cause of the
trouble before it is possible to answer intelligently the
question, "Can Stammering be Outgrown?"

To any one who understands the nature of the difficulty and the
progress it is liable to make, the question is almost as absurd as
asking whether or not the desire to sleep can be outgrown by
staying awake. But aside from its scientific aspect--aside from
the absurdity of the question--let us examine the facts as
revealed by actual records of cases. Let us dispense with all
theory on the subject and take experience gained in a wide range
of cases as the correct guide in finding the answer.

FACTS FROM STATISTICS: An examination of the records of several
thousand cases of stuttering and stammering of all types and in
all stages of development reveals the fact that after passing the
age of six, only one-fifth of one per cent, ever outgrow
stammering. This means that out of every five hundred people who
stammer, only one ever outgrows it. Between the ages of three and
six, the indications are more favorable, the records in these
cases showing that slightly less than one per cent, outgrow the
difficulty. That means that one out of every hundred children
affected has a chance, at least, of outgrowing the difficulty
between the ages of three and six, and after that time, only one
chance in five hundred.

Suppose you were handed a rifle, given five hundred cartridges and
told to hit a bull's eye at a hundred yards, 499 times out of 500.
Suppose you were told that if you missed once you would have to
suffer the rest of your life as a stammerer.

Would you take the offer? Certainly not!!!

And yet that is exactly the opportunity that a stammerer over six
years of age has to outgrow his trouble.

Dr. Leonard Keene Hirschberg, the medical writer, whose
suggestions appear daily in a large list of newspapers, has this
to say about the possibility of outgrowing stammering:

"Often when the attention of careless and reckless fatalistic
relatives is attracted to a child's stammering, they labor under
the mistaken illusion that the child 'will outgrow it.' A more
harmful doctrine has never been perpetuated than the one contained
in that stock phrase. As a matter of experience, speech troubles
are not 'outgrown.' They become 'ingrown.' If not corrected at
first they go from bad to worse. So firmly rooted and ingrained
into the child's habits does stuttering become that with every
hour's growth the chance for a cure becomes farther and farther
removed."

This statement from Dr. Hirschberg is a straight-forward,
practical and common-sense view of the subject.

The belief that the child will outgrow the malady often springs
out of the tendency of the stammerer to be better and worse by
turns, a condition which is fully described and explained in the
chapter on the Intermittent Tendency. There is always present in
any case of stammering the opportunity for a cessation of the
trouble for a short period of time. The visible condition is
changeable and it is this particular aspect of the disorder that
renders it deceptive and dangerous, for many, who find themselves
talking fairly well for a short period, believe that they are on
the road to relief, whereas they are simply in a position where
their trouble is about to return upon them in greater force than
ever.

From the nature of the impediment--lack of co-ordination between
the brain and the organs of speech--stammering cannot be outgrown
--no more so than the desire to eat or to talk or to sleep.

Back of that statement, there is a very sound scientific reason
that explains why stammering cannot be outgrown. Stammering is
destructive. It tears down but cannot build up. Every time the
stammerer attempts to speak and fails, the failure tears out a
certain amount of his power-of-will. And since it is impossible
for him to speak fluently except on rare occasions, this loss of
will-power and confidence takes place every time he attempts to
speak, so that with each successive failure, his power to speak
correctly becomes steadily lessened. The case of a stammerer might
be compared to a road in which a deep rut has been worn. Each time
a wagon passes through this rut, it becomes deeper. The stammerer
has no more chance of outgrowing his trouble than the road has of
outgrowing the rut.

Dr. Alexander Melville Bell recognizes the absolute certainty of
the progress of stammering and the impossibility of outgrowing the
difficulty, when he states in his work, PRINCIPLES OF SPEECH (page
234):

"If the stammerer or stutterer were brought under treatment before
the spasmodic habit became established, his cure would be much
easier than after the malady has become rooted in his muscular and
nervous system."

To the stammerer or stutterer or the parents of a stammering
child, experience brings no truer lesson than this: Stammering
cannot be outgrown; danger lurks behind delay.





CHAPTER VII

THE EFFECT ON THE MIND


It is hardly necessary to describe to the stammerer who has passed
beyond the first stage of his trouble the effect of stammering on
the mind. Most any sufferer in the second or third stages of the
malady has experienced for very brief periods the sensation of
thoughts slipping away from him and of pursuing or attempting to
pursue those thoughts for some seconds without success, finally to
find them returning like a flash.

The stammerer who recalls such an incident will remember the
feelings of lassitude or momentary physical exhaustion, as well as
the feeling of weakness which followed the lapse-of-thought. This
mental flurry is but an indication of a mental condition known as
Thought-Lapse, which may result from long-continued stammering,
especially a case which has been allowed to progress into the
Chronic or Advanced Stage.

A CASE OF APHASIA: One writer, in citing instances of thought-
lapse, or aphasia, tells of the case of a man unable to recall the
name of any object until it was repeated for him. A knife, for
instance, placed on the table before him, brought no mental image
of the word representing the object, yet if the word "knife" were
spoken for him, he would immediately say, "Oh, yes, it is a
knife."

A chapter could be filled with instances of this sort, but I shall
not attempt to quote further any of the symptoms of aphasia in a
stammerer, for in cases that become so far advanced, there is
considerable question as to the possibility of bringing about a
cure. I say this, notwithstanding the fact that my experience with
students having this tendency has been very satisfactory indeed.

Cases of unreasoning despondency, which result in the stammerer's
desire to take his own life, are so numerous as hardly to require
comment. Very frequently you see in some of the large metropolitan
papers an account of a suicide resulting from a nervous and mental
condition brought on by stuttering and stammering. This condition
seems to be very marked in the cases of stammerers between the
ages of twelve and twenty, records showing that most of the
suicides of stammerers are persons between those ages.

The intense mental strain, the extreme nervous condition, the
continual worry and fear cannot fail, sooner or later, to have its
effect upon the mind. This is clear to any stammerer, who is
familiar with the mental condition brought about by the first few
hours of one of his periods of recurrence. Another case where the
mental strain is extremely great is that of the synonym stammerer
--the mentally alert individual who, in order to prevent the
outward appearance of stammering, is continually searching for
synonyms or less difficult words to take the place of those which
he cannot speak. This continual searching for synonyms results in
a nervous tension that is sure to tell on the mental faculties
sooner or later, and I have found, in examining many thousands of
cases, that the synonym stammerer is usually in a more highly
nervous state than any other type.

MENTAL STRAIN EVENTUALLY TELLS: The effect of stuttering or
stammering on the sufferer's concentration is very marked. The
sufferer notes an inability to concentrate his mind on any subject
for any length of time, finds it impossible to pursue an education
with any degree of success or to follow any business which
requires close attention and careful work.

The power-of-will is also affected and the stammerer notes an
inability to put through the things which he starts and which
require the exercise of will power to bring to a successful
conclusion.

A diagnosis of insanity is sometimes made in the case of a
stammerer in the advanced stages of his malady, while in other
instances the mental aberration takes the form of a hallucination
of some sort, as in the case of the boy who was of the belief that
he was continually being followed.

But regardless of what form is taken by the mental disorder
resulting from stammering, such cases are almost invariably found
to have long since passed into the incurable stage, although
positive statements as to the individual's condition should not be
made, as a rule, without a thorough diagnosis having first been
made.





CHAPTER VIII

THE EFFECTS ON THE BODY


The effect of stammering or stuttering upon the physical structure
is problematical. In some cases examined, a noticeable lack of
vitality has been found, together with an almost total loss of
active appetite, a marked inclination toward insomnia and a
generally debilitated condition resulting from the nervous strain
and continued fear brought on by the speech disorder.

In other cases, it has been found that the health was but little
affected and that there was no marked departure from normal.

The physical condition of the stammerer is the result of many
factors. If plenty of fresh air and exercise is supplied, and the
mind is well-employed so that the worry over the trouble does not
disturb the stammerer, then the chances for being in a normal
physical condition are good.

On the other hand, the boy of studious disposition, who is
somewhat of a bookworm, keeps close to the house and does not play
with other children of his age, will probably find time for much
introspection, and on this account, as well as on account of the
lack of fresh air and exercise, will probably be in a physical
condition that of itself demands careful attention.

It has been found in examinations of stammerers and stutterers,
however, that they are usually of below normal chest expansion and
that the health, while not particularly bad, is subject to a great
improvement as a result of the proper treatment for stammering.

Charles Kingsley, the noted English divine and writer, and himself
a stammerer many years ago, has the following to say regarding the
effect of stammering on the body: "Continual depression of spirit
wears out body as well as mind. The lungs never act rightly, never
oxygenate the blood sufficiently. The vital energy continually
directed to the organs of speech and there used up in the
miserable spasm of mis-articulation cannot feed the rest of the
body; and the man too often becomes thin, pale, flaccid, with
contracted chest, loose ribs and bad digestion. I have seen a boy
of twelve stunted, thin as a ghost and with every sign of
approaching consumption. I have seen that boy a few months after
being cured, upright, ruddy, stout, eating heartily and beginning
to grow faster than he had ever grown in his life. I never knew a
single case in which the health did not begin to improve then and
there."





CHAPTER IX

DEFECTIVE SPEECH IN CHILDREN

(1) THE PRE-SPEAKING PERIOD


From the standpoint of speech development, the life of any person
between the time of birth and the age of twenty-one years, may be
divided into four periods as follows:

    From Birth to Age 2--PRE-SPEAKING PERIOD.
    Age 2 to Age 6--FORMATIVE-SETTING PERIOD
    Age 6 to Age 11--SPEECH-SETTING PERIOD
    Age 11 to Age 20--ADOLESCENT PERIOD

This chapter will deal only with the first period of the child's
speech-development, beginning with birth and taking the child up
to his second year. The speech disorders of the later periods will
be taken up in the three following chapters.

THE PRE-SPEAKING PERIOD: This is the period between the time of
birth and the age of 2, and takes the child up to the time of the
first spoken word. This does not mean, of course, that no child
speaks before the age of 2, for many children have made their
first trials at speaking at as early an age as 15 months, and many
begin to talk by the time they are a year and a half old. At the
age of two, however, not only the precocious child but the child
of slower-than-average development should be able to talk in at
least brief, disjointed monosyllables.

Before taking up the possibility of a child exhibiting symptoms of
defective speech with the first utterance, let us familiarize
ourselves with the fundamentals underlying the production of the
first spoken words.

The mother, who for months, perhaps, has been listening with eager
interest and fond anticipation for her child's first word to be
spoken, has little comprehension of the vast amount of education
and training which the infant has absorbed in order to perfect
this first small utterance. Months have been spent in listening to
others, in taking in sounds and recalling them, in impressing them
upon the memory by constant repetition, until finally after a year
and a half, or more, perhaps, the circuit is completed and the
first word is put down as history.

ASSOCIATION OF IDEAS: It must be remembered that perfect co-
ordination of speech is the result of many mental images, not of
one. In saying the word "salt," for instance, you have a graphic
mental picture of what salt looks like; a second picture of what
the word sounds like; a "motor-memory" picture of the successive
muscle movements necessary to the formation of the word; another
picture that recalls the taste of salt, and still another that
recalls the movements of the hand necessary to write the word.

These pictures all hinging upon the word "salt" were gradually
acquired from the time you began to observe. You tasted salt. You
saw it at the same time you tasted it. There you see was an
association of two ideas. Thereafter, when you saw salt, you not
only recognized it by sight, but your brain recalled the taste of
salt, without the necessity of your really tasting it. Or, on the
other hand, if you had shut your eyes and someone had put salt on
your tongue, the taste in that case would have recalled to your
mind the graphic picture of the appearance of salt.

As you grew older and learned to speak, your vocal organs imitated
the sound of the word "salt" as you heard it expressed by others
and thus you learned to speak that word. At that stage, your brain
was capable of calling up three mental pictures--an auditory
picture, or a picture of the sound of the word; a graphic or
visual picture, or a picture of the appearance of salt and a
third, which we have called a motor-memory picture, which
represents the muscular movements necessary to speak the word. A
little later on, after you had gone to school and learned to
write, you added to these pictures a fourth, the movements of the
hand necessary to write the word "salt."

At the sight of the mother, a child may, for instance, be heard to
say the word "Mom" while at the sight of the pet dog whose name is
"Dot," be heard to say "Dot" in his childish way.

Here we have the first example in this child of the association of
ideas. The child has heard, repeatedly, the word "Mama" used in
conjunction with the appearance of the smiling face of his mother.
Thus has the child acquired the habit of associating the word
"Mama" with that face--and the sight of the countenance after a
time recalls the sound of the associated word. Thus a visual image
of the mother transmitted to the child through the medium of the
eye, links up a train of thought that finally results in the
child's attempt to say "Mama."

To take another example of the association of ideas or the co-
ordination of mental images necessary to the production of speech,
let us suppose, for instance, that the child has been in the habit
of petting the dog and hearing him called by name "Dot" at the
same time. Now, if the dog be placed out of the child's sight and
yet in a position where the hand of the child can reach and pet
him in a familiar way, this sense of touch, like the sense of
sight, will set up a train of thought that results in the child
making his childish attempt to speak the name of the dog "Dot."

In other words the excitation of any sensory organs sets up a
series of sensory impulses which are transmitted along the sensory
nerve fibres to the brain, where they are referred to the
cerebellum or filing case, locating a set of associated impulses
which travel outward from the motor area of the brain and result
in the actions, or series of actions, which are necessary to
produce a word.

It will make the action of the brain clearer if the reader will
remember the sensory nerve fibres as those carrying messages only
TO the brain, while the motor nerve fibres carry messages only
FROM the brain.

To make still clearer this association of ideas so necessary to
the production of speech, suppose this same child hears the word
"Dot" spoken in his presence. He will, in all probability, begin
to repeat the word, and to search diligently for his pet dog. Thus
it will be seen that in this case the sound of the dog's name has
stirred up a train of mental images, one of these being a visual
image of the dog himself, causing the child to look about in
search for him.

HOW WE LEARN TO TALK: We learn to talk, therefore, purely by
observation and imitation. Observation is here used in a broad
sense and means not only SEEING but SENSING, such as sensing by
smelling, touching or tasting. The child imitates the sounds he
hears and if these sounds emanate from those afflicted with
defective utterance, then it follows that the initial utterance of
the child will be likewise defective.

SOURCE OF THE FIRST WORD: The first spoken word of the child
usually finds its source in some name or word repeatedly spoken in
the child's presence. It is not usual that this first word is
marked by a defective utterance and if such should be the case,
then it is safe to say that this faulty utterance can be traced
back to the imitation of some member of the family, or some child
who has been permitted to talk to the child in his pre-speaking
period. There is little to be gained by tracing the first word
back, for no very profound conclusion can safely be registered
with such a basis, for no matter what the word be and no matter
whether it be correctly or imperfectly enunciated, it is the
result of imitation.

There may be two exceptions to this, however, one being the case
of a child with a physical defect in the organs of speech and the
other that of a child who has inherited from the parents a
predisposition to stammer or stutter. These exceptions, however,
are so rare as to hardly require consideration. In the first (that
of a physical defect) it is hardly probable that an organic defect
would manifest itself in the form of stuttering or stammering, but
rather in some other form of defective utterance. In the case of
the inherited predisposition to stutter or stammer, there is
always the question which has contributed more largely to the
defective utterance--the inherited predisposition or the
association with others who speak in a faulty manner.

ADVICE TO PARENTS: It is very essential that from the very
beginning of the period of the recording of suggestion, the child
is shown the correct and customary utterance with the best method
of its accomplishment. The child should not be subjected to
constant repetitions of phonetic defects, imperfect utterance or
speech disorders of any sort. The child who hears none but perfect
speech is not liable to speak imperfectly, or at least not so
liable as the child who hears wrong methods of talking in use at
all times, for this last cannot escape the effects of his
environment.





CHAPTER X

DEFECTIVE SPEECH IN CHILDHEN

(2) THE FORMATIVE PERIOD


The period in a child's speech development dating from the second
year and up to the sixth, is called the Formative Period, for the
reason that this is the time when the child is busy learning new
words, acquiring new habits of speech, co-ordinating and learning
properly to associate the flood of ideas which overwhelm the
child-mind in this period.

The child-vocabulary at this time is but an echo of the vocabulary
of the home. The words that have been used most frequently there
are most strongly impressed upon the child-mind. The names he has
heard, the objects he has seen, the applications of speech-ideas--
these alone are now in his mind. This condition is inevitable
since the child must learn to speak by imitation--and, since he
has had no source of word--pictures other than the home, he must
have acquired facility in the use of only those words he has had
an opportunity to hear.

Former President Wilson, whose faultless diction, remarkable
fluency of expression and discriminating choice of words, made him
a master speaker and writer, attributed his facility to the
training he received in the home of his father, a minister, where
the children were constantly encouraged in the use of correct
English and in the broadening and enrichment of their store of
words.

From the form of simple child-speech, made up often of
monosyllables or of a few brief and easy sentences, the child must
now evolve a more complicated form of thought-expression, with the
use of connectives, descriptions and a finer gradation of color
than heretofore.

This process may be materially aided by the parent by the
repetition of the child's own utterances, proving to the child
that these are correct, that he is being understood and giving him
confidence to venture further out in his attempts at speech
amplification. This encouragement of the child-mind in its
attempts to speak is so important that it is worth while to give
some simple examples of what is meant, in order that the point may
be clearly understood. Let us take, first, the example of a mother
who, from some cause, allows herself to be of a nervous and
irritable disposition. The small child may say, "Mam--ma, I want a
tooky." The mo-ther, either through indifference or through habit,
says, "You want WHAT?" This, first of all, is like a dash of cold
water to the child in his uncertain state of mind as to the
correctness of his utterance. The child repeats, "I want a tooky,"
and in all probability gets the further inquiry, "You want a
TOOKY--what's that?" which undermines the child's confidence in
himself and in his ability to talk.

On the other hand, the mother who understands the needs of the
child from a speech-forming standpoint will not insist on the
child repeating the word time after time as if it was not
understood. She will strive hard to understand the first time,
even though the expression is imperfect and difficult of
interpretation, and her nimble mind having figured out what it is
that the child desires, will say, "Baby wants a cooky?" Here the
child, in his comparatively new occupation of talking, finds a
deal of delight in knowing that his words have been properly
comprehended and feels a new confidence in his ability to express
thoughts--which confidence, by the way, is essential to normal
speech development in the child. It has the further effect of
correcting the tendency of faulty utterance, and in time will
result in the complete eradication of the natural tendency to
"baby-talk" which is too often encouraged and aided by the habit
of parents in REPEATING THE BABY-TALK. In no case, should
defective utterances be repeated, no matter how "cute" the
utterance may seem at the time. Many speak indistinctly throughout
their entire life simply because of the habit of their parents in
repeating baby-talk, thus confirming incorrect images of numerous
words.

SPEECH DISORDERS IN THE FORMATIVE PERIOD: The Formative Period may
mark the beginning of a speech disorder and in many instances
chronic cases of stuttering and stammering may be traced to a
simple disorder which first manifested itself in the ages between
2 and 6.

Speech disorders arising in this period may be traced to any one
of a number of causes. In a child of five, for instance, the
diagnostician would look for evidences of an inherited tendency to
stammer or stutter; he would look also for circumstances which
would show that the child had acquired defective utterance through
mimicry of others similarly afflicted or through the unconscious
imitation of the defective speech of those immediately about him.

Failing to find any hereditary tendency to a speech defect or any
evidence that the disorder had been acquired by imitation or
mimicry, the next step would be to determine whether or not the
trouble had been caused by disease or injury.

As explained in Chapter III, the diseases of childhood, such as
Whooping Cough, Scarlet Fever, Diphtheria, Acute Chorea, Infantile
Cerebral Palsy and Infantile Paralysis are frequently the cause of
stuttering or stammering, and a history showing a record of these
diseases would result in a very careful examination for the
purpose of determining if they had resulted in a form of defective
utterance.

ADVICE TO PARENTS: But whatever the cause of the trouble, care
should be taken to see that it grows no worse and every attempt
should be made to eradicate it at this early stage. Like a fire,
speech disorders in their early stages are insignificant compared
to their future progress and can be much more readily eradicated
then than later. Inasmuch as a child of less than eight years is
hardly old enough to undertake institutional treatment
successfully, it behooves the parent of the stammering or
stuttering child to render what home assistance is possible,
during this period. The old adage, tried and true, that "An ounce
of prevention is worth a pound of cure" is never more correctly
applied than here. A few simple suggestions may aid in preventing
the trouble from progressing rapidly to a serious stage, even
though these suggestions do not eradicate the disorder altogether.

First of all, the child should be kept in the very best possible
physical condition. This means, too, plenty of fresh air and
sunshine, without which any child is less than physically fit.

It is important that the child be not allowed to associate with
others who stammer or stutter, or who have any form of speech
disorder. Imitation or mimicry, as heretofore stated, is the most
prolific cause of speech trouble and to place a child who stammers
or stutters in the company of an older person similarly afflicted,
is to invite a serious form of the disorder.

Nervousness, while not the cause of speech disorder, is an
aggravant of the trouble and should be avoided. The child should
not be allowed to engage in anything which has a tendency to make
him nervous or highly excited. Such a condition will aggravate the
speech trouble, make it worse and tend to fix it more firmly in
the child.

Furthermore, parents should not scold or berate the child because
he stammers or stutters. No child stammers or stutters because he
wants to, but because he has not the power to control his speech
organs. In other words, the child cannot help himself--and
scolding and harsh words simply cause confusion and dejection
which in turn react to make a more serious condition.

THE CHANCES FOR OUTGROWING: The author's examination and diagnosis
of more than 20,000 cases of speech disorders has revealed the
fact that at this period in the life of the child afflicted with
stammering or stuttering, slightly less than 1 percent. outgrow
the difficulty. With proper parental care it might be possible to
increase this percentage, perhaps double it, but this should
hardly be called "outgrowing." In the mind of the average person,
the expression "outgrowing his stammering" means that the
stammerer has been able to go ahead without giving the slightest
heed to his trouble and that it has, by some magical process,
ceased to exist. This is a fallacy. Stammering and stuttering are
both destructive and progressive and no amount of indifference
will result in relief--but on the other hand, will terminate in a
more malignant type of the disorder. It IS true, however, that
more care on the part of the parent in looking after the formation
of speech habits in the Pre-Speaking and Formative Periods of the
child's speech development, would result in fewer cases of chronic
stammering and stuttering in later life.





CHAPTER XI

DEFECTIVE SPEECH IN CHILDREN

(3) THE SPEECH-SETTING PERIOD


The period from the age of 6 to the age of 11 (inclusive) is in
truth the Speech-Setting Period, for it is at this time that the
child's speech habits become more or less fixed, and his
vocabulary, while constantly developing, manifests tendencies
which may be traced through into the later life of the adult.

This Speech-Setting Period marks two very important events in the
speech development of the child. First, it marks the period of
second dentition or the time when the milk-teeth are "shed" and
the new and permanent teeth take their place. This is a critical
period and statistics show that there is a marked increase in
speech disorders at this time. The second event of importance,
both to child and to parents, is the beginning of the work in
school. It must be remembered that heretofore the child has been
under the watchful care of the parents during most of his hours,
while now, with the beginning of his work in school, he is having
his first small taste of facing the world alone--even if only for
a little while each day.

Regardless of the attitude which the child takes toward his work
in school, this work presents new problems and new possibilities
of danger from a standpoint of speech development. A slight defect
in utterance which at home is passed over from long familiarity,
is the subject of ridicule and laughter at school. For the first
time in the child-life, the stammering or stuttering youngster may
experience the awful feeling of being laughed at and made fun of,
without exactly knowing why. He will have to face the questions of
his thoughtless companions who will attempt to make him talk
merely for the sake of entertaining themselves. To the child who
stutters or stammers, this is torture in its worst form. The
humiliation and disgrace which the stammering child must undergo
on the way to school, in the school-yard and on the way home
again, is a tremendous force in the life of the youngster--a force
which may seriously impede his mental development, his physical
welfare and his progress in school. He finds himself unlike
others, deficient in some respect and yet not realizing the exact
nature of his deficiency or understanding why it should be a
deficiency. He stands up to recite with a constantly increasing
fear of failure in his heart and unless he is fortunate enough to
have a teacher who understands, is apt to fare poorly at her
hands, also. Even in the case of the teacher who does understand
the child's difficulty and consequently permits written instead of
oral recitations, there is a constant feeling of inability on the
part of the child, a knowledge of being less-whole than those
about him, which saps the self-confidence so necessary to proper
mental development and normal progress. He furthermore misses much
of the value of the studies that he pursues, for, as a noted
educator has said, "In order for a child to remember and fix
clearly in his own mind the things he studies, those things must
be repeated in oral recitation." And this the stammering or
stuttering child cannot do.

SENDING STAMMERING CHILDREN TO SCHOOL: With these facts in mind,
the question arises as to whether it is ever policy to send a
stammering or stuttering child to school, knowing that he is
afflicted with a speech-disorder. In the first place the parents
who send a stammering child to school exhibit a careless disregard
for the rights of others and a further disregard for the many
children who must, of a necessity, associate with this stammering
child, with all the consequent dangers of infection by imitation
or mimicry. Speech defects of a remediable nature among school
children could be materially reduced by refusing to allow children
so afflicted to play or in any way associate with the others who
talk normally.

Aside, however, from the question of the parents' obligation to
society and to the children of others (which should be, in the
end, a means of protection for their own children, as well) there
is the bigger and more selfish aspect of the question, viz.: the
effect on the child himself.

No better suggestion can be given than that contained in "The
Habit of Success" by Luther H. Gulick, who says: "If you take a
child that is really mentally subnormal and put him in school with
normal children, he cannot do well no matter how hard he tries. He
tries again and again and fails. Then he is scolded and punished,
kept after school and held up to the ridicule of the teacher and
other students. When he goes out on the playground, he cannot play
with the vigor and skill and force of other children. In the
plays, he is not wanted on either side; he is always 'it' in tag.
So he soon acquires the presentment that he is going to fail no
matter what he does, that he cannot do as the others do and that
there is no use in trying. So he gives up trying. He quits.

"That is the largest element in the lives of the feeble-minded--
that conviction that they cannot do like others, and is the first
thing they must overcome if they are to be helped. There is no
hope whatever of growth, as long as they foresee they are going to
fail."

The futility of trying to "cram" an education into a subnormal
child has never been better expressed than in the statement quoted
above. There is nothing to be gained by insisting that a child who
is ill, attend school--and it should be remembered that so far as
school is concerned, the child who stutters or stammers is just as
ill as the one with the measles, save that the illness of the
stammering or stuttering child is chronic and persistent, while
that of the other is temporary.

CHANCES FOR OUTGROWING AT THIS AGE: The opportunities for the
stammering or stuttering child to outgrow his trouble are about
five times as great in the Formative Period, between the ages of 2
and 6, as they are in the Speech-Setting Period, from 6 to 11. In
the former, as previously explained, statistics show that about 1
per cent.--or one in a hundred--outgrow their trouble before the
age of 6, while after this age the percentage drops to one-fifth
of one per cent, or about one person in every five hundred, which
is a very small chance indeed.

In speaking of the tendency of parents to wait in the hope that
speech disorders will be outgrown, Walter B. Swift, A.B., S.B.,
M.D., has this to say:

"This suggestion may frequently be offered, even by the physician.
Many people say, 'Let the case alone and it will outgrow its
defect.' No treatment could be more foolish than this. No advice
could be more ill-advised; no suggestion could show more ignorance
of the problems of speech. Such advisers are ignorant of the harm
they are doing and the amount of mental drill of which they are
depriving the pupil. Nor do they know at all whether or not the
case will ever 'outgrow' its defect. In brief, this advice is
without foundation, without scientific backing, and should never
be followed."

ADVICE TO PARENTS: Parents of children between the ages of 6 and
11 who stammer or stutter, should follow out the suggestions given
in the previous chapter, with the idea of removing the difficulty
in its incipiency if possible, or at least of preventing its
progress. If by the time the child is eight years of age, the
defective utterance remains, this fact is proof that the speech
disorder is of a form that will not yield to the simple methods
possible under parental treatment at home and the child should be
immediately placed under the care of an expert whose previous
knowledge and experience insures his ability to correct the
defective utterance quickly and permanently.

In all cases after the age of 8, the matter should be taken firmly
in hand. There should be no dilly-dallying, no foolish belief in
the possibility of outgrowing the trouble, for whatever chances
once existed are now past. First of all, the child's case should
be diagnosed by an expert with the idea of ascertaining the exact
nature of the speech disorder, the probable progress of the
trouble, the present condition, the curability of the case and the
possibilities for early relief. A personal diagnosis should be
secured where possible, but when this cannot be brought about, a
written description and history of the case should enable the
capable diagnostician of speech defects to diagnose the case in a
very thorough manner. The result of this diagnosis should be set
down in the form of a report in order that the parent may have a
permanent record of the child's condition and may be able to take
the proper steps for the eradication of the speech disorder. With
this information as to the child's case in hand, parents should be
guided by the advice of Alexander Melville Bell, one of the
greatest speech specialists of his age, who said:

"Stuttering and Hesitation are stages through which the stammerer
generally passes before he reaches the climax of his difficulty,
and if he were brought under treatment before the spasmodic habit
became established, his cure would be much more easy than after
the malady has become rooted in his muscular and nervous system."

Truly may it be said of the stammering child at this period, that
"There is a tide in the affairs of men, which taken at the flood,
leads on to fortune; omitted, all the voyage of their life is
bound in shallows and in miseries."





CHAPTER XII

THE SPEECH DISORDERS OF YOUTH


Youth, as we shall define it from the standpoint of the
development of speech disorders, is the period from the age of 12
to the age of 20. From the twelfth to the twentieth year is a very
critical period in the life of both the boy and the girl who
stammers--a period which should have the watchfulness and care of
the parent at every step. This is known as the period of
adolescence and may be said to mark the time of a new birth, when
both mind and body undergo vital changes. New sensations, many of
them intense, arise, and new associations in the sense sphere are
formed.

To the boy or girl passing through this stage of life, it is a
period of new and unknown forces, emotions and feelings. It is a
time of uncertainty. The sure-footed confidence of childhood
gives way to the unsure, hesitating, questioning attitude of a
mind filled with new and strange thoughts and a body animated by
new and strange sensations.

These are the symptoms of a fundamental change, the outward
manifestations of the passing from childhood to manhood or
womanhood. This is childhood's equinoctial storm, marking the
beginning of the second season of life's year. In this storm, it
is the paramount duty of the parent to be a safe and ever-present
pilot through the sea that to the captain of this craft is as
uncharted as the route to the Indies in Columbus' day.

The revolution now taking place in both the mental and bodily
processes results hi a lack of stability--an "unsettledness" that
manifests itself in restlessness, nervousness, self-consciousness
or morbidness, taking perhaps the form of a persistent melancholia
or desire to be alone.

At this time in the life of the boy or girl, the possibilities for
stuttering or stammering to secure a firm hold on their muscular
and nervous system are very great. Next to the age of second
dentition, children at the age of puberty are most susceptible to
stammering or stuttering.

During adolescence, the annual rate of growth in height, weight
and strength is increased and often doubled or more. The power of
the diseases peculiar to childhood abates and the liability to the
far more numerous diseases of maturity begins, so that with the
liability to both it is not strange that this period is marked at
the same time by increased morbidity.

The significant fact about stuttering in children as far as it
relates to the period of adolescence, is that this stage marks the
most pronounced susceptibility to the malady as well as the time
during which it may most quickly pass into the chronic stage.
Examinations show that the largest percentage of stutterers among
boys was at the ages of eight, thirteen and sixteen, while the
largest percentage among girls was at the ages of seven, twelve
and sixteen--the earlier age of severity in girls being explained
by the fact that the girl reaches a given state of maturity more
quickly than a boy.

Parents of stammering or stuttering children between the ages of
twelve and twenty, may well note with alarm the increasing
nervousness, the hyper-sensitive feelings, the overpowering self-
consciousness and the morbid tendencies which mark a state of
mental depression, brooding and worry over troubles both real and
fancied.

PERIOD OF MOST FREQUENT SUICIDE: Statistics gathered over a period
of years indicate that the cases of suicide of stammering children
occur at this time with greater frequency than at any other.
Rarely has a case been found where a child has attempted to take
his life before the age of 12 and seldom after the age of 20.

At frequent intervals there can be found in any of the large
papers, a very brief note of the suicide of a child who had found
life too much of a burden for him to bear and who, as a
consequence, fell to brooding over his troubles and as the easiest
way out of them, took his own life. A Chicago boy attempted
suicide by inhaling gas, although he was discovered before it was
too late. Another took his own life by shooting himself with a
revolver given him some years ago as a birthday present; still
another took poison as the easiest way out of his humiliation,
embarrassment and despair.

The average age of these boys was about 16 1/2 years, which marks
a period of intense self-consciousness and extreme sensitiveness
of the youth to ridicule and disgrace.

TENDENCY TO RAPID PROGRESS: The condition of the young person
between the ages of 12 and 20 can hardly be considered to be
normal in any way. The physical processes are un-normal and are
undergoing a change, and the mental faculties, too, are un-
normal, overwhelmed as they are with new emotions and sensations.
The nervous condition is marked by a much higher nervous
irritability, which contributes to a condition most favorable for
the rapid progress of the speech disorder, always easily
aggravated by a subnormal physical, mental or nervous condition.
Cases where the Intermittent Tendency is a pronounced
characteristic are liable at this period to find the alternate
periods of relief and recurrence to be more frequent than ever
before and to note a marked tendency of their trouble to recur
with constantly increasing malignancy. Cases that at the age of 11
or 12, for instance, might have been said to have been in an
incipient state, have commonly been known at this age to pass
through the successive intermediate stages of the trouble and
become of a deep-seated and chronic nature in a surprisingly short
period of time.

In some cases where the transition from a simple to the complex
form of the difficulty takes place at this age, it is found that
the disorder has passed beyond the curable stage, in which case,
of course, nothing is left to the unfortunate stammerer but the
prospects of a life of untold misery and torture, deprived of
companionship, ostracized from society and debarred from
participation in either business or the professions.

CHANCES OF OUTGROWING: The chances for outgrowing a speech
disorder at this age are considerably less than at any other time
in the previous life of the individual. The unbalanced general
condition tends to make the stammerer more susceptible instead of
less so. As previously explained, this period marks the time when
speech disorders progress rapidly from bad to worse and, as a
consequence, the chances for outgrowing diminished from 1 per
cent, before the age of 6 to practically zero after the age of 12.
SUGGESTIONS: There is little that can be said for the good of the
young person at these ages. The time for home treatment is past.
The simple suggestions offered for the assistance of those in the
Formative or Speech-Setting Periods would be of little value here
because the growth of the individual has made the eradication of
the trouble quite improbable without a complete re-education along
correct speech lines--best obtained from an institution devoting
its efforts to that work. Whatever steps are taken, however,
should be taken before the disorder has become rooted in the
muscular and nervous system and before it has passed into the
Chronic Stage.





CHAPTER XIII

WHERE DOES STAMMERING LEAD?


In answering the question: "Where Does Stammering Lead?" nothing
truer can be found than the words of a man who has stammered
himself:

"What pen can depict the woefulness, the intensified suffering of
the inveterate stammerer, confirmed, stereotyped in a malady
seemingly worse than death? Are the afflictions, mental and
physical, of the pelted, brow-beaten, down-trodden stutterer
imaginary? Nonsense! There is not a word of truth in the idea. His
sufferings all the time, day in and day out, at home and abroad,
are real--intense--purgatorial. And none but those who have drunk
the bitter cup to its dregs feel and know its death, death, double
death! These afflicted ones die daily and the graves to them seem
pleasant and delightful. The sufferings of the deaf and dumb are
myths--but a drop in the ocean compared to what I endured! And who
cared for me? Who? I wag the laughing stock, a subject of scoffing
and ridicule, often. I could fill an octavo with the miseries I
endured from early childhood till the elapsement of forty
summers."

Thus does the Rev. David F. Newton, himself a stammerer for forty
years, speak of stammering and stuttering and its effects. And
Charles Kingsley, a noted English divine and author who stammered,
paints the stammerer's future in words of experience that no
stammerer should ever forget:

"The stammerer's life is a life of misery, growing with his growth
and deepening as his knowledge of life and his aspirations deepen.
One comfort he has, truly, that his life will not be a long one.
Some may smile at this assertion; let them think for themselves.
How many old people have they ever heard stammer! I have known but
two. One is a very slight ease, the other a very severe one. He, a
man of fortune, dragged on a very painful and pitiful existence--
nervous, decrepit, asthmatic--kept alive by continual nursing. Had
he been a laboring man, he would have died thirty years sooner
than he did."

To the man who has never been through the suffering that results
from stammering or who has never been privileged to watch the
careers of stammerers and stutterers over a period of years, these
final results of stammering seem impossible. The inexperienced
observer can only ask in wonder: "How can stammering or stuttering
bring a man or woman to these depths of despair?"

To the stammerer who has but begun to taste the sorrows of a
stammerer's life these effects of stammering appear to be the
ultimate result of an UNUSUAL case--never the inevitable result
of his own trouble.

Doubtless if Charles Kingsley were with us today, he could look
back and tell us of the day when he, too, was sure that stammering
was but a trifle. He, too, could point out the tune when he felt
that sometime, somehow, his stammering would magically depart and
leave him free to talk as others talked. And yet, having gone down
the road through a long lif e of usefulness, Kingsley's is the
voice of a mature experience which says to every stammerer:
"Beware--there are pitfalls ahead!" And this man is right.

RESULTS OF STAMMERING: Experience proves that the results of
continued stammering or stuttering are definite and positive, and
that they are inevitable. Stammering is known to be at the root of
many troubles. It causes nervousness, self-consciousness and
sometimes brings about a mental condition bordering on complete
mental breakdown. It causes mental sluggishness, dissipates the
power-of-concentration, weakens the power of will, destroys
ambition and stands between the sufferer and an education.

There is no affliction more annoying or embarrassing to its victim
than stammering. No matter how bright the intellect may be, if the
tongue is unable easily and quickly to formulate the words
expressing thought, the individual is held back in business and is
debarred from the pleasures of social and home life.

Stammering is a drawback to children in school. To be unable to
recite means failure. It means humiliation. It means disgrace in
the eyes of the other pupils. And finally, it means valuable time
wasted--not in getting an education--but in suffering untold
misery in TRYING to get one--and failing.

A boy fourteen years of age, who has failed to advance in school,
and who finds stammering a handicap of serious proportions, tells
me:

"I am fourteen years old and only in the fifth grade. I am afraid
to recite because of my stuttering, and because of my not reciting
when my teachers call on me, I am getting low marks in school and
do not know if I will ever get through."

One mother writes:

"My little girl will not go to Sunday School because she does not
like the other children to look at her so straight when she
stammers."

A boy says:

"I am thirteen years old and in school. I am afraid to recite
because of my stuttering; and because of my not reciting I get low
average in studies."

Another boy told me:

"I am now in the third year of my high school course. On the first
day of the term I went to school, I made sueh a miserable thing of
myself that I quit. The school superintendent and principal saw me
when I came back the second day as I was carrying my books out. Of
course they stopped me and I made an explanation. I couldn't tell
any of the new teachers my name. It was impossible to make any
kind of a recitation. I was introduced to all of my teachers and
have been STUMBLING ALONG ever since with grades anywhere from 0
to 60."

A SOCIAL DRAWBACK: No stammerer but knows that his malady marks
him for the half-suppressed smiles of thoughtless people and the
unkind remarks of those who really know nothing of the suffering
which these unkind remarks occasion. It is true, but unfortunate,
that the stammerer is not wanted in any social gathering, he can
provide no entertainment, save at his own expense, and of all
people he is most ill at ease when out among others.

A young lady writes:

"Mr. Bogue, I would give one of my eyes to get rid of stammering.
That is all I am after. Please excuse this awful writing. I AM SO
NERVOUS I CAN HARDLY GET THE PEN INTO THE INK BOTTLE."

Here is a letter from one man:

"I am 36 years old, and have stammered for 28 years. I don't
stammer so bad, but just bad enough to spoil my life. I always
have to take a back seat in company. I belong to three lodges, but
I do not take part in any of them because I am afraid they will
ask me to take part in the order. It would make me feel cheap. I
have often felt like committing suicide, but I would pull my
nerves together and make the best of it again. I am now a janitor
at a school."

HOPELESS IN BUSINESS: There is not a young man stammerer in this
whole country who would not work night and day to be cured of
stammering if he realized the hopelessness of trying to be a
success in a business way, handicapped by stammering, unable to
talk fluently, clearly and intelligently.

A man says:

"I am 33 years old and single. I have stammered ever since I was a
child. It has made me nervous. At my age it is very embarrassing
to me to stutter. I kept getting more nervous from year to year,
and finally I have had to give up my position. I was a long-hand
biller for ten years, but I am now troubled with writer's cramp
and unable to do much. I can't get a clerk's job because of my
stuttering."

And here is another--a man grown, who too late realized the
futility of trying to get an education while yet handicapped by
stammering. He said, a while back:

"I must say my stammering has spoiled my life and robbed me of a
successful career. I would give much if my parents had sent me to
be cured of stammering when a boy, instead of trying as they did
to educate me."

STAMMERER APPEARS ILLITERATE: No matter how great the stammerer's
knowledge may be, he often appears to be illiterate simply because
he is unable to express himself in words. His knowledge is locked
up by his infirmity, the same as though he had a steel band drawn
over his mouth and fastened with a padlock which he is unable to
unlock for want of a proper key. The man with the locked-up
knowledge is under as great a handicap as the man without
knowledge.

A man who had a chance to be a big success in business, had he not
stammered, says:

"Stammering is the cause of all my trouble. My earlier associates
have shunned me for several years, and I have sought the worst
class of dives and the lowest kind of companions, where I was
reasonably certain that I would not come in contact with those
with whom I had associated in earlier years. My eyes are wet with
tears--tears of remorse and regret--because I see no chance in
life for me now."

The stammerer who thinks that success comes to the man who
stammers--who believes that the business world is willing to put
up with anything less than fluent speech, should read this heart-
broken letter from a young man:

"I am a bookkeeper, and dearly love my work, but am afraid that I
am going to have to give it up because my speech is getting worse,
and I have noticed that the boss has mentioned it to me a couple
of times now, and it almost breaks my heart to know that my
position is going to get away from me. No one realizes how much
one suffers, and I'm afraid I'm going to break down with nervous
prostration soon. When one day is over with me, I wonder how I am
going to get through with the next one."

What are the results of stammering? Should anyone ask that
question, I could point to instances in my own experience that
would prove that almost every undesirable condition of human
existence may be the result of stammering. I have seen young men
who are business failures, dejected, hopeless, drifting along, men
who in early years were intellectual giants, and who before their
death were mere children in mental power, because they allowed
stammering to destroy every valuable faculty they possessed.

I could point to children whom stammering had held back almost
from the time they began to talk--give cases of young men
depressed, embarrassed, unsuccessful, because they stammer--cite
instances of all the worth-while things in life turned from the
path of a young woman because she stammered.

Yet in the past, not one of these knew what was coming. Not one
realized where the trail was leading. No stammerer can of himself
see into the future. But he can, at least, look into the future of
others, who, like himself, are stammerers, and avoid the pitfalls
into which they have fallen and save himself the mistakes they
have made.





PART III

THE CURE OF STAMMERING AND STUTTERING





CHAPTER I

CAN STAMMERING BEALLY BE CURED?


It has only been a few years since the impression was abroad that
stammering was incurable. Not a particle of hope was held out to
the afflicted individual that any semblance of a cure was possible
by any method. This erroneous idea that stammering could not be
cured grew up in the mind of the average person as a result of one
or all of the f ollowing conditions:

1st--The inability of the stammerer to cure himself and his
further inability to outgrow the trouble, (although he was
repeatedly told that he would outgrow it) was the first reason
that led to the foolish and totally unfounded belief that
stammering could not be cured.

2nd--The principles of speech and the un-normal condition known as
stammering have been surrounded with a great deal of mystery in
the years gone by. The idea has been widely prevalent that the
affliction was one sent by Providence as a punishment for some act
committed by the sufferer or his forbears. This and many other
ideas bordering upon superstition, are responsible, too, to a
great degree for the belief that stammering is incurable.

3rd--Even if an attempt to cure stammering was made, this attempt
was based upon the "supposition" that stammering was a physical
trouble, due to some defect in the organs of speech. It followed
that since no one was ever able to discover any physical defect,
no one knew the true cause of the disorder, nor how to treat it
successfully.

4th--Unfortunately there have been in the field a number of
irresponsible charlatans, preying upon the stammerer with claims
to cure, while in fact they knew little or nothing of the
disorder, had never stammered themselves, nor had the slightest
knowledge of the correct methods of procedure in the core of
stammering. The failure of such as these to do any good led to a
widespread belief that there was no successful method for the
eradication of speech disorders.

From an experience covering more than twenty-eight years, during
which time the author has corresponded with 210,000 persons who
stammer and has personally met and diagnosed about 22,000 cases,
it has been proved that all of these beliefs are fallacies of the
worst character. Given any person who stutters or stammers and who
has no organic defect and is as intelligent as the average child
of eight years, it has been found that the Unit Method of
Restoring Speech will eradicate the trouble at its source and by
removing the cause, entirely remove the defective utterance.

THE STAMMERER'S CASE NOT HOPELESS: Stammerers should fix this fact
firmly in mind: Stammering can be cured! There is hope, positive,
definite hope for every case--this fact is based on every
imaginable form of stuttering or stammering. It is not, in other
words, a mere idle statement based on theory or guess-work, but a
mathematical truth, taken from experience.

I recall very well the case of a man of 32 who came to me for help
after five of the so-called schools for stammerers had failed to
afford him any relief. Quite naturally this man was a confirmed
skeptic. He did not believe that there was any cure for him.
Anyone who had been through the trials that he had experienced
would have felt the same way. But he placed himself under
treatment, nevertheless, and in a few weeks' time, the Unit Method
had restored him to perfect speech. He left entirely convinced
that stammering could be cured, because it had been done in his
own case which had so long seemed beyond all hope.

Many years afterward, he wrote a letter which I take the liberty
of reproducing here for the encouragement and inspiration of
everyone who is similarly afflicted and who feels as this man
felt--that he is incurable:

"I tried to be cured of stammering at five different times by five
different men at a total cost of more than one thousand dollars.
None of them cnred me. Then I decided to try the Unit Method. Nine
years ago I did so--a decision that I have never regretted. It waa
evident that this method was based on a comprehensive knowledge of
the art of speech. I am now a piano salesman and talk by the hour
all day long; talk over the telephone perfectly; and many tell me
that I speak more distinctly than the majority of people who have
never stammered. I believe this is because I was taught through
the Unit Method the very fundamentals of speech."

This man's case is typical of the hundreds of failures-to-cure
which are responsible for the belief that stammering cannot be
cured. The fact that he had made five separate attempts to be
cured would, in the mind of the average man, establish the fact
that stammering cannot be cured and yet it is seen that even in
this extreme case, under the application of the proper scientific
methods, the stammerer found freedom of speech without unusual
difficulty and in a comparatively short time.





CHAPTER II

CASES THAT "CURE THEMSELVES"


Not infrequently from some source will be heard a story, many
times retold, to the effect that "So-and-so" who stammered for
many years has been cured--that the trouble has magically
disappeared and that he stammers no longer.

What is the cause of this? What brings about such a miraculous
cure?

The answer depends upon the case. Usually, the story is much more
a story than a fact. Few indeed have been the stammerers who have
ever actually heard the man stammer before "his trouble cured
itself" and then heard him talk perfectly afterwards. Like the
stories of haunted houses, there is nothing to substantiate the
truth of the statement, there is no evidence by which the story
may be checked up.

In the rare cases where the facts would seem to indicate the truth
of the statement, it will be found that the person in question
never really stammered--that his trouble was something else--
lalling, lisping, or some defect of speech that was mistaken for
stammering or stuttering.

Another case of apparent miraculous cure is the case of the
stammerer who, finding himself unable to say words beginning with
certain letters, begins the practice of substituting easy sounds
for those that are difficult and thus, provided he has only a
slight case, leads many to believe that he talks almost perfectly.
This fellow is known as the "Synonym Stammerer" and is usually a
quick thinker and a ready "substituter-of-words." If he has
stammered noticeably for some time until those in his vicinity
have become acquainted with his affliction, and then discovers the
plan of substituting easy sounds for hard ones, he may for a time
conceal his impediment and lead certain of his friends to believe
that he no longer stammers.

This "Synonym Stammerer" is storing up endless trouble for
himself, however, for the mental strain of trying to remember and
speak synonyms of hard words entails such a great drain upon his
mind as to make it almost impossible to maintain the practice for
any great length of tune. In this connection, let every stammerer
be warned to avoid this practice of substitution of words. It is a
seeming way out of difficulty sometimes, but you will find that
you are only making your malady worse and laying up difficulties
for yourself in the future.





CHAPTER III

CASES THAT CANNOT BE CURED


In an experience in meeting stammerers and in curing stammering it
is only natural to assume that I have come across certain cases
which could not be cured. It is only natural, too, to expect that
in such a wide experience it would be possible to determine what
cases are incurable and why.

Cases of incurable speech impediments may be divided into seven
classes:

    (1)--Those with organic defects;
    (2)--Those with diseased condition of the brain;
    (3)--Those who have postponed treatment until their malady
         has progressed so far into the chronic stage as to make
         treatment valueless;
    (4)--Those who refuse to obey instructions;
    (5)--Those who persist in dissipation, regardless of effects;
    (6)--Those of below normal intelligence;
    (7)--Those who will not make the effort to be cured.

Stutterers and stammerers whose trouble arises from an organic
defect are so few as to be almost an exception, but where those
cases exist, they must be regarded as incurable. The re-
educational process used in the successful method of curing
stuttering and stammering will not replace a defective organ of
the body with a new one. It will not cure harelip or cleft palate,
nor will it loosen the tongue of the child who has been hopelessly
tongue-tied from birth.

A boy was brought to me some years ago by his parents in the hope
that his speech trouble might be eradicated, but it was found upon
examination that he had always been tongue-tied and that the
deformity would not permit of the normal, natural movements of the
tongue necessary to proper speaking. I immediately told the
parents the unfortunate condition of their son and frankly stated
that in his condition there was no possibility of my being able to
help him.

DISEASED BRAIN: Taking up the second class--those who have a
diseased condition of the brain--these cases, too, are very rare.
I have met but a comparatively few. Where a lesion of the brain
has occurred, and a distinct change has thus been brought about in
the physical structure of that organ, an attempt to bring about a
cure would be a waste of time--hopeless from the start.

THE PROCRASTINATORS: The third type of incurable cases is that of
the stammerer or stutterer who, against all advice and experience,
has persisted in the belief that his trouble would be outgrown and
who has by this means allowed the disorder to progress so far into
the chronic stage as to make treatment entirely without effect.

This type of incurable is very numerous. They usually start in
childhood with a case of simple stuttering which, if treated then,
could be eradicated quickly and easily. From this stage they
usually pass into the trouble of a compound nature, known as
combined stammering and stuttering. Here, also, their malady would
yield readily to proper methods of treatment, but instead of
giving it the attention so badly needed, they allow it to pass
into a severe case of Spasmodic Stammering, and from this into the
most chronic stage of that trouble. The malady becomes rooted in
the muscular system. The nervous strain and continued fear tear
down all semblance of mental control and in time the sufferer is
in a condition that is hopeless indeed, a condition where he is
subject for the pity and the sympathy of every one who stammers,
and yet a condition brought on purely by his own neglect and
wilfulness.

I recall the case of a father who brought his boy of 16 to see me
some years ago. At that time, the boy represented one of the worst
cases of stammering I ever saw. He could scarcely speak at all. He
made awful contortions of the face and body when attempting to
speak. When he succeeded in uttering sounds, these resembled the
deep bark of a dog. These sounds were totally unintelligible, save
upon rare occasions, when he would be able to speak clearly enough
to make himself understood. I gave the boy the most searching
personal diagnosis and very carefully inspected his condition both
mental and physical, after which I was convinced that he could be
cured, with time and persistent work. The father was given the
result of my findings and told of the boy's condition. He decided
to take the boy home, talk the matter over and place him under my
care the next week. Ten days later he wrote me saying that the boy
had secured a job in a garage at $6 a week and could not think
about being cured of stammering at that time.

Two and a half years later--the boy was nearing twenty--I saw him
again, and even after all my experience in meeting stammerers,
could hardly believe that stammering could bring about such a
terrible condition as this boy was in at that time. His mental
faculties were entirely shattered. His concentration was gone.
This poor boy was merely a blubbering, stumbling idiot, a sight to
move the stoutest heart, a living example of the result of
carelessness and parental neglect. Needless to say, I would not
consider his treatment in such a condition. There was no longer
any foundation to build on--no longer the slightest chance for
benefiting the boy in the least.

THE WILFULLY DISOBEDIENT CASES: Taking up the fourth class of
incurables, those who refuse to obey instructions--I can only say
that such as these are not deserving of a cure. They are not
sincere, they are not willing to hold themselves to the simplest
program no matter how great might be the resultant good. They
spend their own money or the money of their parents foolishly, get
no results and disgust the instructor who spends his or her
efforts in trying to bring about a cure, against obstacles that no
one can overcome, viz.: unwillingness to do as told. The old
saying that "You can lead a horse to water, but you can't make him
drink" applies most forcefully to the case of the wilfully
disobedient stammerer. You can instruct this individual in the
methods to bring about a cure, but you can't make him follow them.

I well remember one case in point. A young man of 20 years came to
me apparently with every desire in the world to be cured of
stammering. The first day he followed instructions with great
care, seemed to take a wonderful interest in his work and at the
end of the day expressed to me his pleasure in finding himself
improved even with one day's work. By the third day, the novelty
had worn off and his "smart-aleck" tendencies began to come to the
surface. He was impertinent. He was impudent. He was rude. He
failed to come to his work promptly in the morning, was late at
meals, stayed out at night beyond the time limit set by the
dormitory rules and persisted in doing everything in an irregular
and wilfully disobedient manner.

I was not inclined to dismiss him because of his misconduct,
because it was evident that here was a boy of more than ordinary
native intelligence, a fine-looking chap with untold opportunities
ahead of him, if he were cured of stammering. So I put up with his
misdeeds for many days, until one morning I decided that either he
must come to time or return to his home--and he elected to take
the latter course.

In looking up this boy's record later on, it was found that he was
incorrigible, that his parents had never been successful in
controlling him at any time and that he had been expelled from
school twice.

There is no need for me to say that this boy was afflicted with
something even worse than stammering--something that science was
not able to help--i. e., a lack of sense. His case was incurable,
just as much so as if an inch of his tongue had been sheared off.
With such stammerers as this I have neither patience nor sympathy.
They have no respect or consideration for others and are
consequently entitled to none themselves.

THE CHRONIC DISSIPATOR: The fifth type of incurable might be
called the "chronic dissipator" and his stammering is hopelessly
incurable just as far as his habits are incurable. The person who
persists in undermining his mental and physical being with
dissipation and who, when he knows the results of his doings, will
not cease, cannot hope to be cured of stammering. Cases such as
these I do not attempt to treat. They are neither wanted nor
accepted.

I recall the case of a man of 32, a big, stalwart fellow, who came
to me about two years ago with a very severe case of combined
stammering and stuttering. He made his plans to place himself
under my care but before getting back, fell a victim to his
inordinate appetite for drink and was laid up for a week. His wife
wrote me the circumstances, told me it had been going on for nine
years and that all efforts to eradicate the appetite had failed. I
immediately advised her that I considered his case incurable and
could not accept him for treatment. In such cases, a cure is built
upon too shallow and uncertain a foundation to offer any hope of
being permanent.

BELOW NORMAL INTELLIGENCE: There is another incurable case which
must be included if we are to complete this list of the incurable
forms of speech impediments. That is the case of the stammerer who
is of below normal intelligence. These cases are very rare and I
do not recall but four instances where a case has been diagnosed
as incurable on account of the lack of intelligence. This is a
direct refutation of the statement that stammerers are naturally
below normal in mental ability. Out of more than twenty-six years'
experience in meeting stammerers by the thousands, I can say most
emphatically that stammerers as a class ARE NOT NATURALLY BELOW
NORMAL INTELLIGENCE OR MENTAL POWER, SAVE AS THEIR TROUBLE MAY
HAVE AFFECTED THEIR CONCENTRATION OR WILL-POWER.

THE LACKADAISICAL: The last and largest class of incurable cases
of stammering are those who will not make the effort to be cured.
These are the spineless, the unsure, the cowards, who are afraid
to try anything for fear it will not be successful.

They are usually afflicted with a malady worse than stammering or
stuttering--"indecision"--a malady for which science has found no
remedy. Knowing the dire results of continued stammering, still
they stammer. Reason fails to move them to the necessary effort.
Common sense makes no appeal. Well, indeed, in such cases, may we
paraphrase the words of Dr. Russell H. Conwell and say:

"There is nothing in the world that can prevent you from being
cured of stammering but YOURSELF. Neither heredity, environment or
any of the obstacles superimposed by man can keep you from
marching straight through to a cure if you are guided by a firm,
driving determination and have health and normal intelligence."

These seven classes of incurable cases complete the list. And the
number of such cases, all taken together, is so small as to be
almost out of consideration. For, out of a thousand cases of
stuttering and stammering examined, I find but 2 per cent. with
organic defects or of an incurable nature. In other words, 98 per
cent. can be completely and permanently cured.





CHAPTER IV

CAN STAMMERING BE CURED BY MAIL?


In the years past there have been attempts from time to time to
induce the stammerer to seek a cure for his impediment in mail
order treatments. As has already been told, I was the victim of
one of these so-called "correspondence-cures" and know something
about them from personal experience.

In the first place, the sufferer usually takes up with the mail
order specialist because this man retails his "profound" knowledge
at a low rate, a rate so low that even a single thought on the
subject would convince anyone that his money was buying a few
sheets of paper but no professional knowledge or experience.

The very best correspondence course I have ever known anything
about was not as good as a number of books on elocution that are
available in any good library. Usually these courses are written
by some charlatan who is in business as a mail-order-man selling
trinkets and stammering cures or running a general correspondence
school, teaching not only how to cure stammering by correspondence
but giving courses in "Hair-Waving" and "How to Become a
Detective." It is needless for me to say that such as these are in
the business, not for the good of the stammerer nor even for the
purpose of helping him, but simply for the money that can be
extracted from the stammerer or stutterer.

THE DIFFERENCE: There are two main differences, however, between
the books which the stammerer may read without cost and the
correspondence course for which he pays out his good money--many
dollars of it. The correspondence course has been written by a man
who knew little or nothing of the subject, and who put out a
course for stammerers only because he knew something of the number
of stammerers in his territory and said to himself, "My, but I
ought to be able to sell them a mail-order cure." Forthwith he
sits down and writes a course--it isn't necessary to have anything
in it at all. Often these men do not even take the trouble to
consult reliable books on the subject. They do not profess to know
anything about stammering or stuttering, their cause or their
cure. They simply sit down and write--and when they have it
written, they send it to the printer, have it printed and then
split these printed sheets up into ten, or twenty, or fifty, or a
hundred lessons--whatever their fancy may dictate, and begin to
sell them. They have no thought of the results--results to them
mean nothing save the number of courses that can be sold--and
whether or not a single iota of good accrues to the stammerer from
this expenditure of money is one of the things in which the
correspondence school stammering specialist is not at all
interested.

The most that can be expected from the very best mail course for
the cure of stammering is that the subscriber will receive
information worth as much as that which might be in a library
book. He receives this in installments and for privilege of
reading it piece-meal, pays from $50 to $100.

It is hopeless to try to cure stammering or stuttering by any
method unless the instructor knows his business. And this
knowledge comes not by chance but by long, hard study.

MAIL CURES A FAILURE: No stammerer should attempt to be cured by
any correspondence method. When the decision has been made to have
a speech defect removed, the sufferer should place himself under
the care of a reputable institution, the past record of which
entitles it to consideration. Correspondence cures are a waste of
money, a waste of time and finally leave the stammerer with the
firm-founded belief that his trouble is absolutely incurable,
when, as a matter of fact, he may have a comparatively simple form
of stuttering or stammering which could be quickly eradicated by
the proper institutional treatment.

At no time should the stammerer resort to the use of any
mechanical contrivance to aid him in speaking correctly. The cause
of the trouble as previously explained, is inco-ordination.
Mechanical contrivances to hold the tongue in a certain position,
elevate the palate or for any other purpose may be positively
harmful and should be strictly avoided--ALWAYS.





CHAPTER V

THE IMPORTANCE OF EXPERT DIAGNOSIS


A diagnosis is an examination or analysis to determine the
identity of a disease and to reveal its cause and characteristics.
A reputable medical man will not undertake the treatment of any
malady without having first made a searching examination and a
thorough diagnosis of the trouble.

In the case of the stammerer or stutterer, expert diagnosis is
very important and should be undertaken only by a diagnostician
who has had previous training and experience of sufficient
duration to enable him to be classed as an expert on the subject.
No stammerer or stutterer, however, should overlook the value of
such diagnosis, for the reason that there are so many forms of
speech disorders that it is totally impossible as well as unsafe
for the sufferer himself to try to determine the exact nature of
his trouble.

I recall the case of a certain young man who had depended upon his
own knowledge to determine the identity of his speech defect and
the nature of his trouble. When a boy, he had swallowed a small
program pencil with a metal tip, injuring his vocal cords, so he
said, and causing him to become a stammerer. An examination of his
condition and a careful diagnosis of his case revealed the fact
that his vocal organs were as normal as those of any person who
had never stammered. The diagnosis also revealed the fact that his
stammering was not originally caused by any organic defect or any
injury to the vocal organs, but that, on the other hand, he had,
in the first place, inherited a predisposition to stammer, his
father and his grandfather both having been stammerers whose
trouble had never been remedied. The diagnosis showed that the
onset of the trouble immediately after swallowing the pencil was
due chiefly to the nervous shock and fright caused by the
accident, which, in conjunction, with the inherited predisposition
toward stammering, was too much for the boy's mental control and
he immediately developed into a stammerer. The young man had
believed for many years that his defective utterance was totally
incurable, that it was due to an organic defect which could not be
remedied. The diagnosis quickly revealed, however, that a very
different condition was responsible for his trouble and as a
consequence, he found himself able to be cured where, without
expert diagnosis, he had resigned himself to a life as a
stammerer.

Another case which also shows the stammerer's inability to
diagnose his own trouble accurately was that of a woman who
persistently refused to allow her son to have his case diagnosed,
because of her belief that he was incurable and that the diagnosis
would be a waste of time and money.

After months of coaxing, however, he succeeded in getting her to
consent and I gave him a thorough diagnosis and report on his
condition. This mother had been unduly alarmed--the boy was still
in a curable stage and in fact completed the necessary work in
much less than the usual time. This is but another case that shows
the loss which comes from not knowing the truth.

Written Report of Diagnosis Valuable: It is well to get a personal
diagnosis of the case where possible, but if this cannot be done,
a written history of the case, together with a statement of the
symptoms and present condition, should enable the expert
diagnostician of speech defects to make a thorough and reliable
diagnosis of the trouble.

This diagnosis, to be of the most value to the stammerer or
stutterer, should be made up in the form of a written report, so
that the information may be in permanent form and so that the
sufferer can study his own case in all its angles.

WHAT DIAGNOSIS SHOULD SHOW: First of all, of course, the diagnosis
should identify and label your trouble. It should tell what form
of speech defect is revealed by the symptoms; it should tell the
cause of the trouble; the stage it is now in; should indicate
whether or not there is any organic defect; should give
information as to the possibilities of outgrowing the trouble;
and, most important of all, should state whether or not the
disorder is in a curable stage.

When it is remembered that nearly a dozen more or less common
speech disorders can be named, almost in one breath, and that some
of these disorders may pass through four or five successive
stages, it will be seen that an expert diagnosis and report is
almost a necessity to the stammerer or stutterer who would have
reliable and authoritative information about his speech disorder.

The stammerer or stutterer who voluntarily remains in the dark,
who is satisfied with gross ignorance of his trouble, is surely
not on the road to freedom of speech.

The most able man cannot decide correctly without the facts. To
decide in the absence of information is guesswork--and guesswork
is a poor method of deciding what to do--in the case of the
stammerer as in every other case.

Therefore, it behooves the stammerer to become enlightened to as
great an extent as possible, to banish ignorance of his trouble
and replace it with facts and sound knowledge.





CHAPTER VI

THE SECRET OF CURING STUTTERING AND STAMMERING


If the reader has followed this work carefully up to this point,
he is now informed on the causes of stuttering and stammering, on
their characteristic tendencies and their peculiarities. We are
now ready to ask, "What are the correct methods for the cure of
stuttering and stammering?" and to answer that question
authoritatively.

As to the successful mode of procedure in determining the proper
methods for the cure of stuttering and stammering, I know of no
suggestion better than that offered by Alexander Melville Bell,
who says:

"The rational, as it is experimentally the successful method of
procedure, is first to study the standard of correct articulation
(NOT the varieties of imperfect utterance) and then not to go from
one extreme to another, but at every step to compare the defective
with the perfect mode of speech and so infallibly to ascertain the
amount, the kind and the source of the error."

We have already done that: We have located the cause of the
trouble. We not only know that stammering is caused by a lack of
co-ordination between the brain and the muscles of speech, but we
know the things which may bring about the lack of co-ordination.
Now, how to cure? Simply remove the cause. Re-establish normal co-
ordination between the brain and the muscles of speech. Restore
normal brain control over the speech organs. Make these organs
respond freely, naturally and promptly to the brain messages.

That sounds simple. But if it is as simple as it sounds, why is it
that so many in the past have failed to cure stammering and
stuttering? Why have so many so-called methods of cure passed into
the discard? The answer is, they were based on the wrong
foundation. They struck at the effects and not at the cause of the
trouble. And as a result, the methods failed.

These so-called methods have aimed at many different effects. One
method, for instance, had as its theory that if you could cure the
nervousness, the stammering would magically disappear. The
unfortunate sufferer was doped with vile-tasting bitters and nerve
medicines, so-called, in the hope that his nervous system would
respond to treatment. But the nerves could not be quieted and the
nervous system built up until the cause of the nervousness--which
was stammering--was removed.

There was a time, too, and it has not been so long ago, when the
craze was on for using surgery as a cure-all for stammering.
Terrible butchery was performed in the name of surgery--the
patient's tongue sometimes being slitted or notched, and other
foolish and cruel subterfuges improvised in an effort to cure the
stammering. Needless to say, there was no cure found in such
methods. There is no chance of curing a mental defect by slitting
the tongue and the absurdities of that "butchering period" which
have now passed away, are numbered among the mistakes of those who
committed them.

A lack of thoroughness marked the later attempts to cure
stammering. One method was based, for instance, solely upon
correct breathing. There is no doubt that correct breathing is
very vital both to the stammerer and the non-stammerer, if they
are to speak fluently and well. But breath-control does not even
begin to solve the problem of curing stammering. It is but an
element, and a small element, in the proper articulation of words.
And however well this plan of breath-control might have succeeded,
it could never have succeeded in really curing stuttering and
stammering.

Most of these ill-advised efforts and half-baked methods sprang
up, not as a result of sound knowledge but rather as a result of
the lack of it. In fact, looking back at the manner in which the
stammerer was treated for stammering under these methods, we can
see now that nothing but the most profound ignorance of the
fundamental principles underlying the art of speaking could have
made it possible for these misguided instructors to pass out as
science the jargon and hodge-podge which they did try to pass off
as scientific knowledge. The absurdities propounded in the name of
stammering cures were too numerous even to enumerate in this
volume.

SPEECH PRINCIPLES FUNDAMENTAL: Back of every spoken word, whether
that word be French, English, Italian, or any other language, are
the unchangeable principles of speech. These principles of speech
are fundamental. They do not change basically nor do they vary in
the individual. When you speak correctly, you do so as a result of
following the correct principles of speech. I speak correctly by
the same method as you. And when you speak incorrectly, or when
you stutter or stammer, you do so because you have violated one or
more of these fundamental principles. Any other person who
stammers or stutters as you do, violates the same principles and
requires the same method of correction as yourself. The severity
of your case depends upon how many of the principles of speech you
violate. A diagnosis will determine this--and therefore what is
necessary to be done to bring about perfect speech. The number of
speech violations to be corrected will also determine to a certain
extent the time required for correction.

SPEECH DEFINED: Speech, in all the diversities of tongues and
dialects, consists of but a small number of articulated elementary
sounds. These are produced by the agency of the lungs, the larynx,
and the mouth. The lungs supply air to the larynx, which modifies
the stream into whisper or voice; and this air is then moulded by
the plastic oral organs into syllables which singly or in
accentual combinations constitute words.

As explained in the Chapter on Causes, all of the physical organs
which have to do with the production of speech and all of the
brain centers whose duty it is to control the actions of these
various organs, must operate in harmony, or, in other words, must
coordinate, if we are to have perfect speech. Co-ordination
implies perfect mental control of physical actions. And this in
turn means perfect obedience of the physical organs of speech to
the brain messages that are received.

The cure of stammering and stuttering requires a great deal of
care based, of course, upon the correct scientific knowledge in
the first place.

In attempting to cure stammering, there has been too much teaching
by rigid rules and not enough teaching by principles. There are
very few hard-and-fast rules that can be followed with success by
every stutterer or stammerer. No set of rules can be laid down as
a standard for every one to follow, for no two persons stammer
exactly alike any more than two persons look exactly alike.

The only safe rule of all the rules is that which says, "Cleave
closely to the principles, let the rules fall where they may." The
only successful method is that which, being first based upon the
right principle, is followed out with intelligence by the
stammerer and administered with wisdom by the instructor to fit
the needs and requirements of the individual case.

METHODS NECESSARILY THREE-FOLD: The cure of stammering and
stuttering can be wrought only by a method that is three-fold-that
attacks all of the un-normal conditions of the stammerer
simultaneously and eradicates them in unison.

It would be of little avail, for instance, to build up perfect
breath control, and leave the stammerer in a mental state where he
was continually harassed by a fear of failure, by a continual
self-consciousness and irritated by a deep-seated nervousness.

And it would be of just as little use to try to remove that self-
consciousness, fear of failure and nervousness without removing
the cause of the stammering.

In other words, when the successful method of curing stammering is
spoken of as being threefold in purpose, it is meant that this
method must build up the physical being, must achieve perfect
mental equilibrium and must link up the physical with the mental
in perfect harmony.

A permanent cure can rest on no other foundation than perfect
restoration to a truly normal mental and physical condition. When
this has been accomplished and when the synchronization of brain
and speech organs has been brought about, the muscles of speech do
not hesitate in responding to a brain message for the utterance of
a word. There is no longer any sticking, any loose or hurried
repetition. In other words, perfect speech now comes as a logical
consequence.

SPEECH SPECIALIST SHOULD HAVE STAMMERED: It is very important that
the speech expert who would promulgate a method for the
eradication of stammering should have, at one time or another,
stammered himself.

It is a well-known fact that the imagination cannot conjure up an
image of something that has never been experienced. If you had
been born blind, you would have no mental picture of any color, no
matter how much you might have heard about it. Still your
imagination might be a most prolific one. The utmost feat of the
human imagination is to combine mental pictures to form still
other images which are impossible or absurd or which in their
entirety have not been experienced. In other words, new
combinations of images are possible, but an entirely new or basic
picture is beyond the power of the imagination to create.

So, with the specialist who would cure stuttering and stammering.
It is impossible for the man who has never stammered or stuttered
to know the fear that grips the sufferer when he thinks of
speaking. It is impossible for one who has never stammered to
imagine what this fear is like or to know the feeling that
accompanies it.

For that reason, it is important that the man who attempts to
eradicate speech defects should have been afflicted himself in
order that his experience may have been acquired first-hand--that
the suffering may have been felt and all of the conditions and
situations of the stammerer may be as familiar to him as to his
student.

Value of Moral Influence in the Cure of Stammering: In speaking of
the necessity for good health, both physical and mental, before
the eradication of stammering can take place, we must not overlook
a few words about one particular type of derelict--the will-less
or sometimes wilful individual who persists in indulging in
dissipation of every kind, the individual who, with cocksure
attitude and haughty sneer, laughs in the face of experience and
insists that "it will not bother him." To such as these, no hope
can be held out. Such tactics leave both body and mind in a
condition that does not permit of up-building. There is little
foundation for any effort and with the passing of each day, there
is a tearing-out of bodily and mental vigor that makes all effort
useless.

But in the average individual, physical rebuilding is a process of
but a few weeks. The mental rehabilitation can usually be
accomplished in an equally short period of time and when these
things have been brought about, perfect speech soon follows if the
correct methods are applied.





CHAPTER VII

THE BOGUE UNIT METHOD DESCRIBED


At the time a stammerer or stutterer first places himself under my
care and before any attempt is made to apply the treatment, he is
given a very thorough and searching examination for the purpose of
learning the exact nature of his difficulty. It must be remembered
that no two cases of stammering or stuttering are exactly alike
and that no two cases require exactly the same method of
treatment, although the same basic principles apply to all.

Even if the stammerer's case has been previously diagnosed by me,
it is necessary to compare and verify the symptoms as previously
exhibited with those existing at the time of his beginning
treatment, in order to learn, first of all, whether his malady has
more recently progressed into a further and more serious stage.

The Bogue Test: If the usual entrance examination does not bring
out all of the essential facts regarding the case, the stammerer
is then put through the Bogue Test--an original system of
diagnosis which I perfected some years ago--by means of which the
peculiarities of the trouble are brought out, the NORMAL, the
SUBNORMAL and the ABNORMAL condition of the disorder is gauged and
the most minute details of the trouble are disclosed. This Bogue
Test covers the case from every possible angle. It lays bare the
exact physical, mental and nervous condition of the stammerer or
stutterer, enables me to determine the original cause of the
trouble and to follow its progress from the first up to the
present time, almost as easily as if the student had been under my
observation ever since he first noticed his defect of speech.

I recall the case of a boy who came to me at one time for a
personal diagnosis of his case. I examined him carefully, put him
through a number of tests and diagnosed his case, which proved to
be in the second stage and of no more than ordinary severity. He
was unable to place himself under my care at that tune but
returned to me about eight months later, apparently in no worse
condition than before. Not being satisfied with the results of the
examination, the complete test was applied, with the result that a
condition of grave seriousness was discovered, marking the most
pronounced form of his trouble--a form so far advanced as to make
the case almost incurable. The situation was explained to the
young man and he was told that it would take much longer than
usual to bring about a cure in his case, although such a cure was
yet possible. He expressed his willingness to spend as much time
as was necessary in the cure and as a result, he was able within
some weeks' time to talk without stuttering or stammering. The
mental sluggishness which marked his conversation soon
disappeared. He became alert and eager and when he left for home,
he was a much different boy than when he came for treatment.

This is but one of hundreds of examples showing the need for
expert diagnosis and for careful analysis of the condition of the
stammerer even if a previous diagnosis has been made within a few
months.

In practically all cases of stammering, particularly those of a
progressive character, the condition is naturally changeable and
common prudence calls for caution in accepting antedated facts as
an indication of the present condition.

In every case, the examination enables me to gauge the severity of
the case so accurately that the student's course can be outlined,
designating the exact Plan-of-Attack to be used in:

    1--Tearing out the improper methods of speech production
    2--Replacing those incorrect methods with the correct natural
       methods
    3--Re-establishing normal co-ordination between the brain and
       the muscles of speech.


The Method at Work: When the preliminary Examination and Tests
have been completed and the student's course outlined, the actual
working of the Bogue Unit Method then begins. This does not
involve the practice of any "ism" or "ology," nor does it require
the use of medicines, drugs, surgery, hypnotism or the "laying-on-
of-hands," but by scientific and natural methods, begins the first
step of the work, viz.: Tearing out the improper methods of speech
production.

At every step in the application of the method, the principles
which underlie and govern perfect articulation, serve as the
foundation of the instruction. As has been so often stated in this
book, these principles of speech never change. They apply to all
persons alike, and all who talk normally apply these principles in
the same manner. Those who stammer violate them, so that in
correcting defective speech it is only logical that we should
first remove the defective procedure and then institute the
correct procedure in its place.

The Bogue Unit Method is three-fold in action. From this it takes
the name "Unit Method." The first Unit of Treatment has for its
purpose the building up of physical efficiency. "The first
requisite is to be a good animal," says Herbert Spencer. This is
certainly true of the stammerer, for in his case, normal health is
a valuable aid during the time of treatment. Consequently, the
first step is to build up the physical organs and be sure that
these are functioning properly.

The second Unit of Treatment restores the mental equilibrium,
stabilizes the mental activities and places them under perfect
control. The inability of the mind to control the organs of speech
has led to a condition which might be described as a "flabbiness
of the mental muscles" which necessitates that the mental
condition be altered and improved so that the mind can once more
possess the capacity for properly controlling the organs of
speech.

The third Unit of Treatment synchronizes and harmonizes mental and
physical actions and re-establishes normal co-ordination between
the brain and the muscles of speech, which completes the work
necessary to bring about a cure. After both physical and mental
conditions have been made normal, it merely remains to link up
these two properly-working forces, co-ordinate their activities
and firmly inhabitate the correct principles of control, after
which it can be said that a complete cure is permanently effected.

Daily Record of Progress: Beginning with the first day, a complete
report in writing is made of the progress. Each point on which the
student makes progress is noted. If proper advancement is not made
on any particular point, special effort is put forth to bring that
point up to the standard which has been set. This makes it
possible for the instructor to give individual attention to each
student, something which is absolutely essential in many cases. In
other words, it will not do to start the student off and let him
work out his own salvation. The instructor must be constantly at
hand, giving advice, correcting faulty articulation and constantly
aiding the stammerer in a hundred ways to route the malady.

After having been under treatment for seven days, the student is
subjected to his first treatment test. After passing this
examination satisfactorily, the student is assigned additional
work from another angle. Some students require as much as ten days
to complete the work necessary to pass this first test--in fact,
it might also be said that this test will determine the speed with
which the student is to progress. From this time until the
completion of the course, additional tests are given at various
intervals, according to the needs of the case, until the Final
Cure Test proves that the malady has been eradicated.

Conscious of the Improvement: The stammerer is profoundly
conscious of a distinct change for the better by the end of the
very first day under treatment. In other words, there is an
immediate and noticeable improvement, not only in his nervous
condition, but also in his physical and mental state as well.

Before the student passes from under the treatment, he is
thoroughly aware of the benefits which the work has brought about.
For, after he has met every progress test and has been examined on
every phase and every principle of speech, he passes to a rigid
Final Test. In this test, more than ever before, he finds the
results of his efforts. He discovers that he can use his speech in
any way that he desires--in any way that it will be necessary for
him to use it in his future life. He finds himself able to produce
any sound--labial, dental, lingual, nasal or palatal or any
combination of these sounds in any language. He finds every word
now is an easy word, articulation is under perfect control and the
formation of voice a process involving no apparent mental effort
or physical contortions.

A young woman of 20 years was placed under my care by her mother.
She stammered very badly and at the time when her condition was at
its worst, found it almost impossible to make herself understood
by any means. After five weeks of careful instruction, this young
woman had no difficulty whatever in speaking, there was no "piling
up of thoughts," as she expressed her former condition, and her
articulation was excellent. A few days after she returned home,
she wrote as follows: "I have been talking ever since I came home
and have had no trouble whatever. I just love to talk and I
believe I have said more in the last five days than in the whole
last five years."

Additional Results: The Bogue Unit Method of Cure when earnestly
followed out by the student, does much more than eradicate the
impediment of speech. It increases the weight of the below-the-
average student, stops all spasmodic or convulsive efforts of
face, arms and limbs and increases by several inches what was
formerly a flat and poorly developed chest.

A very bad case who came to me for treatment several years ago was
a young man of 26. He not only stuttered but stammered very badly.
He placed himself under my guidance for a period of a little more
than six weeks. At the end of that time he found no difficulty in
talking nor were there any spasmodic movements of the facial
muscles, as before. In reporting some time later, he said:

"When I left I tipped the scales at 20 pounds heavier than when I
went to you. My folks are certainly pleased to hear me talk
without the straining and strangling exertion I had before in
trying to force my words out. Now they flow out nice and easy."

Many children, both boys and girls, are under developed. This may
have resulted from several causes, but it is frequently traceable
to the stammering or stuttering as an indirect cause. The Bogue
Unit Method takes these children in a poor physical condition and
while eradicating the defect of speech, brings about a healthy
physical development. An Ohio woman reported excellent results in
a letter which said:

"I am glad to inform you that my son Allan since taking the
treatment in June last, has not to my knowledge, stammered once,
for which we are all very grateful to the Bogue Method. I also
wish to say that his physical condition is much improved and he
has increased in weight about ten pounds."

Regardless of the age of the student, there is an increased
vitality flowing through the entire body, the powers of endurance
are greatly increased and the health built up from every stand-
point. One man sent in an enthusiastic report in these words:

"I am fine and healthy; the people down here say I don't look like
the same person. I gained 17 pounds while I was out there. I am
talking fine. My mother says I talk them nearly to death. I talk
them all to bed at night, so they put out the light on me so I
will go to bed and hush. I went down town Saturday night and the
boys were sure glad to hear me talk without stammering."

Even THIS physical improvement is not unusual.

Another man reports the change brought about in his condition as
follows:

"Just about two years ago I was one of the worst stammerers I know
that ever was; it was simply awful. I could not speak a word
without the most terrible stammering you ever heard. My parents
were heartbroken over my condition, which grew worse all the time.
I did not grow and develop like my brothers. My shoulders were
stooped, my chest sunken--in fact, I was in a terrible condition.
After staying with you for six weeks I came home and every one who
knew me when I left was simply astonished at the improvement, not
in my speech alone, but in my physical condition also. Am stronger
and well now and I say it is a comfort to be able to talk like
other boys."

This case is not an unusual one, however, for it is frequently
found that the stammering child grows into a physically deficient
man as a result of his speech impediment.

Concomitant with these physical betterments comes a changed mental
attitude, whereby the former pessimistic outlook has been changed
to an optimistic view of life. The former abnormal timidity of the
student has been replaced by a perfect confidence; the old
unreasoning fear-of-failure is transformed into a feeling of
supreme self-reliance; and the depressed, care-worn expression
which may once have marked the stammerer's countenance has given
place to that of cheerfulness.

The weak and vacillating will now manifests itself as a dominant,
masterful power-of-will and the stagnant mentality of the
stammerer has now given place to a vigorous, forceful, creative
mental power. The mind-wandering or lack of ability to concentrate
is gone and in its place is an intense and well controlled power-
of-concentration. In addition to this, the nervousness which
marked the every movement of the stammerer has disappeared and the
self-consciousness which made life a misery is replaced by a calm
self-control, resulting in an entire self-forgetfulness, perfect
poise and a feeling of self-possession.

These benefits accrue gradually as the course progresses, but
when, upon the completion of the course, perfect speech is finally
restored, the results are fully evident and entirely permanent.
Their permanency is the crowning result of the proper methods--
methods which eradicate the trouble at its source--treat and
remove the cause instead of treating the effect.





CHAPTER VIII

SOME CASES I HAVE MET


During the last twenty-eight years, I have personally met more
than 22,000 stammerers, diagnosed 97,000 cases by mail and
corresponded with more than 210,000 people who stammer or stutter.
In this time, it is only natural that I should have come in
contact with almost every conceivable type of stammering in
practically every form.

I am going to describe a few of these cases in this chapter, give
their history and description very briefly, follow out the course
of the trouble when unchecked and indicate the circumstances of
cure when the stammerer has placed himself for treatment.

I shall make no attempt to discuss all types of speech disorders
nor even all of the forms of any one type, but rather to take up
those cases which can be regarded as most common and which are
typical of the disorders of the largest number of stammerers and
stutterers. Since a whole volume could easily be filled with
descriptions of cases, it is evident that those discussed here
must be but briefly described.

(The case numbers in the following pages refer to specific cases,
but not to the order of their treatment, since the classification
is a decimal system used to indicate type, duration, stage, etc.)

Case No. 65.435--This was a boy of 8, brought to me by his mother
after he had experienced untold trouble in school. The boy
complained of a pain in his head when making an effort to talk or
after having spoken under the strain for some minutes. I found the
spasmodic contractions accompanying his trouble to be very
pronounced for a boy so young in years and upon making the
examination, was not surprised to find his to be a case of
Combined Stammering and Stuttering. There was no indication of
Thought-Lapse, but there was a condition that could easily have
been mistaken for it--viz.: a woeful lack of confidence in his own
ability to speak, which in this boy's case was due to the fact
that he had stuttered almost since his first word and had rarely
spoken words correctly. As has been previously explained, every
child learns to speak by imitation and his confidence in his
speaking-ability must be gained by constant reassurance from some
source that he is speaking correctly. Early in life this boy had
found that he was NOT speaking correctly and at that moment began
to feel the lack of confidence which had been growing upon him
daily. Although in the midst of his school work, arrangements were
easily made to remove him from class and place him for treatment.
Notwithstanding the fact that his trouble was unusually severe for
a boy of that age, seven weeks at the Institute saw him made into
a new boy, his confidence regained, his speech under perfect
control and his physical condition greatly improved. He returned
to school, where his unusual proficiency enlisted the aid and co-
operation of his teachers to such an extent that he was able to
finish the semester with his class.

Case No. 7.232--This was another boy of early school age, whose
case is described here because of the contrast of the one just
mentioned. The present case was that of a boy soon to be 10 years
old. He had stammered, not since his first word, but only since he
had been allowed to play with two children, twins, who lived in
the neighborhood, and both of whom had stuttered since their first
attempts to speak. While I never examined the twins, it seems from
what I learned of them, that the predisposition to stammer was an
inherited one, both the father and grandfather having been
inveterate stammerers. Be that as it may, their defective
enunciation, practiced in the presence of the boy whose case I am
describing, caused the boy himself to acquire a habit of imperfect
enunciation which took the form of simple stuttering and which all
the home efforts of his mother and father had failed to eradicate.
At the time he was brought to me, I gave him the usual
examination, traced his trouble back to its original cause--
Unconscious Imitation diagnosed his case as one of Simple
Stuttering and recommended the procedure to be followed. This boy
left my care after three weeks and experienced no further
difficulty to this day, although he is now 24 years old and
engaged in work that necessitates his making impromptu speeches
almost every day. Here was a case of Simple Stuttering, taken at
the right time, which yielded almost magically to the treatment,
but had it been allowed to run on, would have progressed into the
Advanced Stage of Stuttering and later, in all probability, into
an extremely severe case of Combined Stammering and Stuttering.

Case No. 986.523--This was the case of a Polish boy who found it
almost impossible to begin a word or a sentence. In describing his
case to me, he finally managed to say, "Before I utter a word it
takes me a long time and after I utter the word, I become red in
the face and so excited that I don't know where I am, or what I am
doing!" I found this boy to be extremely high-strung and of a
nervous temperament, easily excited. He was of an emotional type,
was more-than-ordinarily sensitive about his trouble and brooded
over it constantly, having long fits of deep melancholia that were
a constant source of worry to his parents. He was furthermore at a
critical age, from the standpoint of his speech development, just
approaching 16. Although naturally of an agreeable disposition,
his trouble had made him irritable and often sullen. He wore an
air of dejection almost constantly. It was evident to me
immediately upon examination that his trouble had had a grave
effect upon his mind and that it would in time (and not so long a
time, either) have a deep and permanent effect that no amount of
effort could eradicate.

It would be naturally expected that his symptoms would indicate
Thought-Stammering, but this is not true. Instead I found his to
be a bad case of Spasmodic Stammering, in which the convulsive
action took place immediately upon an effort to speak and which
resulted, therefore, in the inability to express a sound--the
"sticking" tendency so common to stammering and particularly to
this type.

While the worry over his stammering had left him in a mental state
that made him impotent so far as normal mental accomplishments
were concerned, still the removal of his stammering by the
eradication of the cause would, I felt, entirely relieve the
condition of mental flurry and stop the nervousness.

The case was so urgent that the boy's parents decided to place him
for treatment immediately. The results were so gratifying as to be
almost unbelievable. By the end of the first day's work, the boy's
whole mental attitude was changed. His outlook on life was
different. He felt the thrill of conquering his difficulty and
before many days, he was working like a Trojan to make his cure
complete and permanent. At my suggestion, he remained with me for
seven weeks, at the end of which time he went back East, entirely
changed in every particular. He was smiling now, where before he
seemed to have forgotten how to smile. He was full of life,
enthusiasm and ambition--no one who had seen him the day he first
came here, could realize that this was the same boy that entered a
few weeks before with the desire-to-live almost extinct. There are
hundreds of cases riot far different from this--I have cited the
case of this Polish boy to show what a complete transformation is
made in the mental state by a few weeks' work along the right
lines.

Case No. 87.522--Here was a case of a type that is very, very
common. It was that of a girl, 17 years of age, from a good
family, well-educated and having all the marks of careful training
in a home of refinement. The most marked characteristic of her
case was the tendency to recur. In other words, she was an
Intermittent Stammerer, who had believed (as had her parents) that
the tendency to get better was an indication that she would soon
outgrow the trouble. "If Marie still stammers by the time she is
18--" this had come to be almost a household word, for if she
stammered at that time, it was the intention of her parents (so
they said) to have the girl placed under treatment. As was to be
expected, she continued to stammer and continued to get steadily
worse, although the tendency to be better and worse by turns was
maintained throughout the years. The periods of improvement were
eagerly seized by her parents, year after year, as indications of
out-growing, while the periods of relapse were seldom spoken of
and usually ignored. It was another case of the old saying that:
"We like to think that the thing will happen which we want to
happen," and since they wanted the daughter to outgrow her
trouble, they insisted in believing, despite their own unexpressed
fears, that the daughter would "eventually get over it!"

She did not get over it, however, and the critical age of 16
brought on a condition so severe that her parents became alarmed
about her and sought advice as to what should be done.

An examination of her case brought out the fact that she had
probably inherited a predisposition to stammer, but that the
immediate cause of the trouble had been fright, caused by a nurse
who had tried to discipline the girl when small, by telling her
that the "bogey-man" would get her if she didn't do certain things
as told. This disciplining by means of fear is never a safe
procedure and in this case had been carried to extremes on many
occasions, finally resulting in the child becoming a stammerer.

She had a case of Genuine Stammering in its second stage and,
according to her own statement at the time the examination was
made, had become much worse in the last two years. At age 15 it
seems that everyone felt secure in the belief that her trouble
would pass away, but at age 17, the condition became critical, the
disorder having previously passed into the second stage.

Two and a half weeks worked a wonderful improvement in the girl's
condition, at the end of which time she was compelled to return to
her home on account of a death in the family. She remained at home
for almost a month, after which she returned to me to complete the
cure. Even under such an unusual and unfavorable circumstance as
this, she remained with me the last time only four weeks, and has,
according to her report, never stammered since, nor has she been
oppressed by the overpowering sense of fear that formerly seized
her when she thought of trying to talk.

Case No. 84.563--This case first came to my attention over ten
years ago, when I was called upon to make a diagnosis. This showed
the trouble to be a case of Combined Stammering and Stuttering,
originally caused, it seemed, from having associated with an old
man who was janitor in a wood-working plant belonging to the
father of the boy whose case I am describing. The janitor had
stammered ever since anyone about the place had known him and
probably all of his life. In his early days, with his youth to
carry him on, he had tried to hold down several jobs of
consequence, but with varying success, dropping down the ladder
rung by rung until he reached the place of janitor. The boy in
question, having associated with the old man, early acquired the
habit of mocking his defective speech, with the result that he
himself soon began to stutter, which later turned into a combined
form of disorder known as Combined Stammering and Stuttering.

He came to me at the time he was 28, having found it necessary to
go to work on his own account, upon the failure of his father's
business. I explained to him that his was a case of Combined
Stammering and Stuttering, outlined to him the probable course of
his trouble and what he might reasonably expect if he allowed it
to continue. Having been married only a short time and being
rather reluctant to leave home for the length of time necessary to
take the course, he decided to postpone treatment until some later
date. I heard nothing more from him for almost three years, when
he walked in one day, looking like a shadow of his former self.
There were dark rings around his eyes, his gaze was shifty and I
could hardly believe that this was the young fellow who had seen
me three years ago. Nevertheless it was the same man, with a story
that pointed out the danger of postponement. His trouble had
become steadily worse, he said, until it had ruined his control
over himself. He had become nervous, irritable and cross, without
meaning to be so, had lost one good position after another and
finally, as a climax to a long string of misfortunes, his wife had
left him. declaring that she would not put up with him in such a
condition.

A second examination revealed the fact that his stammering had
progressed so rapidly since he had last talked with me, that it
was now perilously near the stage known as Thought Lapse. His
control was not entirely shattered, however, and he was accepted
for treatment. It was something over two months before he was back
in shape again, but those two months did a wonderful thing for
him, for it put him in first-class physical condition, removed
all traces of his impediment and restored the mental equilibrium
which had been so long endangered. Later, as a result of his
restoration to perfect speech, his family differences were
adjusted, and at the last reports, he was making splendid headway
in a business of his own. Such is the power of stammering to
destroy--even home and happiness itself--and such the power of
perfect speech to build up again.

Case No. 465.722--This was the case of a man born in Ireland, who
came to this country as a boy, and the original cause of whose
trouble was a blow over the head in a street fight soon after
landing in America.

When he came to me, he was 52 years of age and not only had one of
the most severe cases of Spasmodic Stammering I have ever seen,
but was in the first stages of Thought Lapse. He was practically
speechless all of the time and his trouble instead of manifesting
an Intermittent Tendency as it had formerly done, was now
constant, indicating that he was in the chronic stage of his
difficulty. Aside from his Spasmodic Stammering, he seemed unable
to think of the things which he wished to say. In other words, his
trouble had been affecting him so long that he had lost the power
to recall and control the mental images necessary to the formation
of words.

I not only gave him the usual examination but applied the special
Bogue test, both of which convinced me that his case was far into
the incurable stage. There was little or nothing I could do for
him at that late date and so I told him. He acted as if dazed for
a few moments, and when the full force of the truth dawned upon
him, it was as if a cord had snapped and broken. Hope was gone. He
was an incurable--and knew it now, only too well. And as he turned
and left me, I knew from the droop of the shoulders and the hang
of the head, that life meant but little to him now. He was merely
waiting--waiting for the last page to be written and his book of
despair to be closed.

Case No. 34.444--This young woman was very talented, had a
beautiful singing voice and could not understand why she was
unable to speak fluently when she could sing so well. The cause of
her trouble was distinctly mental and did not lie in any defective
formation of the vocal organs but rather in a lack of co-
ordination between the brain and the muscles of speech. In her
case, the speech disorder had not materially affected her health,
although she admitted it had impaired her power of will and her
ability to concentrate. Six weeks put her in good condition and
gave her the opportunity to use her beautiful voice to excellent
advantage in speaking as well as in singing--much to her
satisfaction.

Case No. 667.788--This man came to me for assistance and relief
from a severe case of Combined Stammering and Stuttering. He shook
like a leaf when he talked, was very nervous, and could hardly sit
still. His speech was marked by loose and hurried repetitions of
syllables and words, alternating with a slow and seemingly dazed
repetition of words, as though he did not know what he was saying.

In a few moments, I learned that he was a habitual alcoholic, that
he was acquainted with the Delirium Tremens and that he frequently
went upon sprees lasting a week, which left him a physical wreck.
He had no backbone, there was no foundation to build on and his
case was declined as incurable, not altogether from the condition
of his speech, but because it is useless and hopeless to attempt
treatment of the stammerer who is also a chronic dissipator.

Case No. 34.343--This was the case of a young man who came to me
at the age of 17. He was one of the type that "seldom stammer." He
explained this to me and told me that many of his friends were not
aware of the fact that he stammered.

I gave him an examination and found his trouble to be a case of
Combined Stammering and Stuttering in the second stage. He was of
the Intermittent Type and at intervals his trouble became very
bad, at which times he made it a point not to go out among his
friends--one of the reasons which made it possible for him to say
that his friends did not know of his speech trouble.

This young man came to me hoping that I would tell him that his
trouble was not severe and that he would outgrow it in a few
years. I was able to tell him that at the time his case was not an
extremely bad one, but I knew that instead of being outgrown it
would become ingrown, and I so told him.

But he decided to postpone action until some later date, feeling
sure, despite what I had told him, that he would outgrow his
stammering.

Four and a half years later, he came back. This time he did not
say that his friends knew nothing of his trouble. He was in bad
condition, his "seldom stammering," as he had called it, was
chronic now and the painful expression on his face when he tried
to talk was ample proof of the condition in which he had allowed
himself to get. His trouble had passed into Genuine Stammering and
was of a very severe nature. There was no thought of postponement
in his mind at this time and he placed himself for treatment
immediately. Eight weeks' time saw his work completed, with
excellent results. His fear was gone, his confidence renewed and
his health greatly improved, in addition to being able to talk
fluently.

Case No. 66.788--Here was the case of a man of 30, a preacher, who
found no difficulty in preaching to his congregation, from the
pulpit, but whose trouble immediately got the best of him the
moment he went down into the church and attempted to carry on a
conversation individually. This became so embarrassing to him that
he finally gave up the idea of passing through his congregation,
but satisfied himself with standing at the door and greeting them
as they passed out. This, too, he was later compelled to give up
on account of his speech, although during none of this time did he
have the slightest trouble in delivering his sermons.

His was a case of Genuine Stammering. The mental control when he
was in the pulpit was almost normal. Talking to individuals, this
control was quickly shattered. He placed himself for treatment
after having secured a brother-pastor to fill his place for two
months. He was a good student, obedient to instruction,
concentrating on his work with a creditable energy. As a result,
in five weeks' time, he found himself able to talk to anybody
under any condition without the slightest sticking or fear. He
could talk over the telephone and was master of himself under the
cross-fire of conversation which in his previous state had
bothered him so seriously.

Case No. 48.336--This is a case that represents a very common type
of Combined Stammering and Stuttering, and a type that is not so
quickly cured as might be imagined. This was a young man of 18,
who not only stammered but stuttered. His speech disorder,
however, was further complicated by a bad habit of prefixing a
totally foreign word or sound to the word or sound which he found
it difficult to pronounce. "B" was one of his hard sounds and in
speaking the sentence: "We expect to leave Baltimore," he would
say: "We expect to leave ah--ah--ah--Baltimore."

The fear of failure which caused him to acquire this habit of
speaking, led his friends often to think that his mind wandered,
although as a matter of fact, he was a very bright young fellow,
without a single indication of Thought Lapse.

I diagnosed his case as Combined Stammering and Stuttering, and
explained to him that he represented a type of stammering that
might be called the "Prefix Stammerer" because of their habit of
prefixing every hard sound with an easy word or an easy sound,
even to the extent of losing the sense of the sentence--so great
is the "Prefix Stammerer's" fear of failure.

He placed himself for treatment, and although his trouble was
complicated by this prefixing habit, seven weeks put him in good
shape. He forgot his fear of failure, found every word an easy
word and every sound an easy sound. He learned to talk fluently
again and returned to his home, both physically and mentally
improved.

Case No. 98.656--This was the case of a rather arrogant young man
from a good family, who was too proud to admit that he was a
stammerer. Rather it should be said, he was too foolish to admit
it. He was well-educated and with the store of words at his
command, succeeded for some years in concealing the fact that he
stammered. This he accomplished by the substitution of words. That
is, words beginning with those letters that he could not utter
were not used. If his sentence included such a word, he quickly
substituted another word of somewhat similar meaning, but
beginning with a letter that he could pronounce correctly. This
substitution of words was so well done that for some time it was
scarcely noticeable to the average listener. Often he found
himself incorrectly understood, because of his inability to use
the right word in the right place, but nevertheless he was
successful in concealing his speech defect from many of his
friends.

This case is of a type known as the "Synonym Stammerer" because
synonyms are used to avoid stammering. The mental strain of trying
always to substitute easy words for hard ones, was very great,
however, and after a few years' practice, the strain began to tell
on the young man. It affected his health and made him nervous and
irritable.

It was at this time that he came to me. Genuine Stammering was his
trouble, and so it was diagnosed. He refused to admit that he had
a severe case, although the truth of the matter was, he did
stammer badly and the mental power which had sustained him in his
attempts to speak, was being steadily weakened by what we might
term misuse.

He placed himself for treatment, although in a frame of mind that
did not augur well for his success, but by the end of the third
day his mental attitude had entirely changed, he came to realize
the immense difference between being able to speak fluently and
naturally and being compelled to substitute synonyms. From that
day forth he was one of my best students. His education stood him
in good stead, his enthusiasm was so spontaneous as to be
contagious and at the end of four and a half weeks, he departed,
as thoroughly changed for the better as anyone could wish. The
arrogance was gone. In its place was something better--a sure-
footed confidence in his ability to talk--and this was a
confidence based on real ability--not on bluff. He was no longer
nervous and irritable--and in fact, before leaving, he had won his
way into the hearts of his associates to the extent that all were
sorry when he left and felt that they had made the acquaintance of
a young man of remarkable power.

Five years later, I met him in New York, quite by accident. He was
in charge of his father's business, had made a wonderful success
of his work and was universally respected and admired by those who
knew him. Even to this young man, who to many would have seemed to
have all that he could desire, freedom of speech opened new and
greater opportunities.

If I had the space to do so within the covers of one volume, I
would gladly give many more cases, with description and diagnosis
as well as results of treatment. Specific cases are always
interesting, illuminating and conclusive. They show theory in
practice and opinions backed by actual results.

But lack of space makes it impossible to give additional cases
here. Those which have been given are typical cases--not the
unusual ones. The out-of-the-ordinary cases have been avoided and
the common types dwelt upon with the idea of "giving the greatest
good to the greatest number."

Every reader of this volume who lives today under the constant
handicap of a speech disorder, may well take new hope from the
thought that "What man hath done, man can do"--again!





PART IV

SETTING THE TONGUE FREE





CHAPTER I

THE JOY OF PERFECT SPEECH


If you stammer--if you are afraid to try to talk for fear you will
fail--if you are nervous, self-conscious and retiring because of
your stammering--then you don't realize the Magic Power of Perfect
Speech. You don't realize what perfect speech will mean to you.
Listen to this--from a young woman who stammered--who was cured--
and who knows:

"The most wonderful thing has happened to me. What do you think it
is! I have been cured of stammering. You have no idea how
different it is to be able to talk. I just feel like I could fly
I'm so happy. Just think, I can talk I'm so glad, so glad, so
glad, it's over. I just feel like jumping up and down and shouting
and telling everybody about it. I never was so happy in my life--I
never was so glad about anything as I am about this."

That is the way she feels after being entirely freed from her
stammering--after learning to talk freely and fluently without
difficulty, hesitation or fear-of-failure.

And here are the words of a young man who has just found his
speech: "The Bogue Cure is marvelous. It is just like making a
blind man see. It is remarkable. The sensation of being able to
talk after stammering for twenty-five years is wonderful."

And another young woman--this time from Missouri:

"That six weeks was the beginning of life for me. All my life I
have had a dread of trying to speak which made life most
unpleasant. I do not have it now--I love to meet people."

The joy of perfect speech:

The wonderful exhilaration of being able to say anything you want
to say whenever you want to say, to whomsoever you desire to
speak.

"I can talk"--that sums it all up. With that assurance comes the
feeling of the innocent man freed from a long term in prison--the
sense of completeness and wholeness and ability, the feeling that
you are equal to others in every way, that you can compete with
them and talk with them and associate with them on a plane of
equality.

Such is the Joy of Perfect Speech!!

To know that the haunting fear is gone--that the shackles have
fallen away, the chains are broken.

To know that you are free--delivered from bondage.

What a feeling--what a sensation--

Living itself is worth-while. Life means more. The sun shines
brighter, the grass is greener, the flowers are more beautiful
while friends and relatives seem closer, kinder and dearer than
ever before.

The Joy of Perfect Speech!

No words can paint the picture, no tongue describe the lofty
feeling of elation which crowns the man or woman or boy or girl
who has stammered and has been set free.





CHAPTER II

HOW TO DETERMINE WHETHER YOU CAN BE CURED


You can either be cured of your trouble--or you cannot. If you
can, why should you go about hesitating, stumbling, sticking,
stammering and stuttering?

Why should you deny yourself the privileges of society, the
advantages of opportunity, the fruits of success--if you can be
completely and permanently cured of the trouble which handicaps
you and holds you back?

Why should you live a HALF LIFE as a stammerer, if you can be
cured and live the complete, joyous, happy, overflowing life?

Why should you be content with failure or half-success if the
triumphant power to accomplish, the masterful will to succeed is
right within your grasp?

Why should you continue to stammer if you can be cured?

The answer is, YOU SHOULD NOT.

The first step, therefore, is to determine definitely and
accurately whether you are in a curable stage of your trouble and
whether you can be completely and permanently cured.

These things you cannot determine for yourself. You have no
facilities for determining the facts. You lack the scientific
knowledge upon which such conclusions must be based. You cannot
diagnose your case of stammering any more than you could
accurately diagnose a highly complex nervous disease. In order,
therefore, that the most important of all questions, viz.: "Can I
be Cured?" may be correctly and authoritatively answered, I am
willing to diagnose your case and give you a typewritten report of
your condition, telling you whether or not you are still in a
curable stage.

It goes without saying that this diagnosis must be based upon a
description of the case in question. This description must be
accurate and reliable as well as thorough. In order to insure
this, I furnish with each book a Diagnosis Blank, which when
properly filled out, gives me the information necessary to
determine the durability of the case, as well as to furnish much
other valuable information about the individual's condition.

In no case, will I undertake to pass on the curability of the
stammerer without a diagnosis first being made. You want the
opinion which I give you to be authoritative and dependable--a
report in which you can place your entire confidence. I cannot
give such a report by merely hazarding a guess as to your
condition. I must base my report on the actual facts as they
exist. I must make a careful study of your symptoms, determine
what your peculiar combination of symptoms indicates, find out the
nature of your trouble, determine its severity.

When you have returned the blank--and when I have furnished you
with the diagnosis of your case, you can depend upon it to be
accurate, authoritative, definite and positive. It will give you
the plain facts about your trouble--be those facts good or bad.





CHAPTER III

THE BOGUE GUARANTEE AND WHAT IT MEANS


No matter what caused your stammering, no matter how old you are,
how long you have stammered, how many times you have tried to be
cured--no matter what you think about your case or whether you
believe it to be curable--if I have diagnosed your trouble and
pronounced it curable, then I can cure YOU.

By the application of the Bogue Unit Method, I can eradicate the
cause of your trouble at its very source, and re-establish normal
co-ordination between your brain and the muscles of speech,
removing every trace of that "mental expectancy" which you call
"fear-of-failure."

I can show you how to place your articulation under perfect
control, how to make the formation of words an easy process
involving no apparent mental effort or noticeable physical
exertion.

I can teach you how to produce any sound or combination of sounds,
how to make every word an easy word and every sound an easy sound.

I can show you how to talk without stammering--how to talk just as
freely and fluently as any normal person who has never stammered.

I not only claim to be able to do this for you, I back it up with
a past record of success in treating hundreds of cases similar to
your own. Like cures like. What has cured others like you, will
cure YOU. But I don't ask you to risk a single penny upon even
that evidence and proof. The moment you enroll in the Bogue
Institute, I will issue to you and place in your hands, a written
Guarantee Certificate, over my own signature, binding me to cure
you of stammering or refund every cent of the money which you have
paid me for tuition fee, and asking you only to follow the easy
instructions given under the Bogue Unit Method.

You are to be the sole judge as to whether or not you follow
instructions.

I will leave it entirely to you to decide. All I ask of you is
full opportunity to do my best for you and absolute honesty, such
as you expect and will receive from me.

I want to be absolutely fair with you--I want to cure you as I
have cured myself and hundreds of other stammerers. I do not want
a dollar of your money unless I have given you a dollar's worth of
benefit in return. I would not keep a penny of the money that you
might have paid me for cure of your stammering unless I had
actually cured you, provided, of course, that you had followed the
instructions which anybody of ordinary intelligence over eight
years of age can easily follow.

I have no fear of your dealing dishonestly with me. I know enough
about human nature to know that all you want is to be cured--and
you understand that to be cured you must co-operate with me to
that end. I can cure your stammering only with your co-operation--
just as a music teacher can make a pianist of you only with your
co-operative and sincere effort. Therefore, I ask only that you
follow my instructions carefully and faithfully--and I guarantee
to bestow upon you the same gift of Perfect Speech that I have
bestowed upon hundreds of now-happy men and women--and I put that
guarantee in writing over my personal signature.





CHAPTER IV

THE CURE IS PERMANENT


No one who stammers should put any faith in a cure for his trouble
unless the results are known to be permanent. A temporary cure is
no cure at all and should be avoided, for it is merely a means of
wasting money.

The Bogue Unit Method brings about not only a complete but a
permanent cure. The secret of its success as far as permanency is
concerned, lies in the fact that the basic cause of the trouble is
removed at its very source, the wrong methods rooted out and the
correct methods installed in their place.

Once this process is completed and the cure effected, the cure is
permanently insured, because its very cause is gone. You cannot
stammer without a cause--everyone understands that.

The proof of the permanency of the cure is attested by the many
letters from those who were here ten, fifteen, twenty years ago. A
woman cured at the Institute ten years ago writes:

"At 14 I was a very bad stammerer. I then attended the Bogue
Institute, where I was completely cured in a few weeks. I then
secured a position as saleslady in one of our leading stores where
I have been called upon to handle as many as one hundred sales in
a single day. I have never stammered once. My cure has been
absolutely perfect for the past ten years. It was certainly a
lucky day that I walked into Mr. Bogue's office the first time."

Another excellent proof of the permanency of the cure, is the
subjection of the cured student to tremendous mental and nervous
strain. Many of our former students were in the Great War, numbers
of them right up in the front line where the fighting was stiffest
and where the nervous and mental strain was terrific. Even under
this test (which was enough to make a normal person become a
stammerer--and many of them did) the results of the Bogue Unit
Method held them to normal speech. One young man writes:

"I completely regained my speech at the Bogue Institute in 1915. I
enlisted in the army and was sent overseas in the spring of '18,
and went through some of the hardest fighting the 42nd Division
was in, that being the Division I was transferred to, and am happy
to say the speech trouble has never come back on me. I was wounded
by a fragment of high explosive shell. One hit me under the right
arm, fracturing two ribs. Another struck my shoulder and a piece
ranged downward into my right lung, which now remains there. I
developed tuberculosis in November, in all probability from
exposure as much as the wound. I was evacuated to the U.S. early
last winter and sent to this place, where I am rapidly regaining
my health and expect to be discharged about September 1st.

"With all the hard experience I went through, stammering did not
come back to me. I have never regretted the time I spent with your
Institute, and I have only the highest words of praise for the
work being done in the Bogue Institute."

Another severe test of a cure of stammering is an illness such as
may have brought the trouble on in the first place. If the
stammerer, for instance, can undergo an attack of influenza or
pneumonia and come out of it without difficulty, it proves beyond
all question of a doubt that the cure is permanent.

For that reason, I wish to quote the letter of an Illinois boy who
says:

"I am getting along fine with my speech. I am sure I will never
stammer again. I was sick the week after Christmas with pneumonia
but it did not bother me a bit."

Another young man says:

"It is now nearly six months since I left the Institute and in
that time I have not stammered a word. What do you think about
that? It surely is fine. But you know that. I was in Chicago last
week and visited friends and saw a doctor friend of mine who did
not know that I had been away, so he just stood there and looked
at me, and said, 'You are talking fine. How did you learn that?'

"I told him and then talked to him for four hours and he said it
was the best thing that had ever happened to me." Another letter,
this time from Honolulu and from a man who attended the Institute
a number of years ago, says:

"Just to let you know that I am still alive and enjoying life as I
never have before. I have forgotten that I ever stammered. Sincere
thanks to you."

This young man is now an engineer in the employ of the United
Shipping Board.

These letters give the answer better than I can--better than any
scientist can because they tell the real truth taken from the
experience of those who have tried and know--

First--That stammering can be cured by the Bogue Unit Method!

Second--That the cure is a permanent cure!





CHAPTER V

A PRICELESS GIFT--AN EVERLASTING INVESTMENT


There is no gift that can take the place of perfect speech. It is
beyond price--and the person who talks after stammering would
give all his possessions to keep from going back again to
stammering.

But Freedom-of-Speech is more than a priceless gift--it is a
wonderful investment. Should you ask: "Does it pay to be cured of
stammering?" the answer could be nothing but "Yes"--and there is
evidence aplenty to prove it.

One young man writes:

"I have never enjoyed life as I have since I left the Institute,
both in a business and social way. I am to get a 25% increase in
my salary the first of the month, which is at least partially due
to my wonderful perfection of speech."

Does it pay--? Does a 25 per cent. increase in salary pay? Here is
the case of a young woman who was about to lose her position
because of her imperfection in speech--yet when she returned home
after being cured at the Institute, she wrote:

"I was very much surprised when I went down to the office
yesterday to find that I was going to get my place back again.
This evening, Mr.--told me that I was to get a 33 1/3% raise at
the end of next week, so my stay with you has already begun to pay
dividends."

Freedom-from-Stammering PAYS--in dollars and cents. On a cold
business basis, it is one of the best investments to be made. One
man who attended here a few years ago was a fireman in a large
factory, stoking boilers all day long. Today he is salesman--and
the head salesman at that--for the same firm--he makes as much as
the President of the firm. He works on commission--and he knows
how to talk so as to sell.

Another man was section foreman when he took his course at the
Bogue Institute. Today he is manager of one of a great chain of
big retail stores and makes more in one day than he used to make
in two weeks.

Another case is that of a young man from New York State, who gave
up his position to come to the Bogue Institute and be free from
stammering. Six weeks later he went home. Like the other young man
mentioned above, he met with a success--surprise--he was re-
employed by his old employers--and he, too, was given a 25 per
cent. increase in salary.

So, you see, freedom from stammering pays--pays splendidly and
continuously for all the rest of your life. It pays in
satisfaction, in contentment, in happiness and ability to
associate with others on a plane of speech-equality.

It pays in better salaries and bigger earning power--in
opportunities opened and chances made possible to you that are
closed to the one who stammers.

The world's successful men and women do not stammer. The happy,
contented people do not stammer. The money-makers do not stumble
and stick and stutter when they talk.

To be successful you must know how to talk. If you stammer today,
make your plans to get out from under the handicap--remember that
it will pay you and pay you well.





CHAPTER VI

THE HOME OF PERFECT SPEECH


The Bogue Institute of Indianapolis is truly the home of perfect
speech. For in no other place can be found the things that are
found here. Nowhere else is there that silent sympathy with the
moods of the one who stammers. Nowhere else is there that home-
like atmosphere, that all-prevading spirit of helpfulness and
cheerfulness and good-will.

No matter how discouraged the stammerer may be, no matter how
tired or nervous or self-conscious--no matter how shy or shrinking
from the gaze of others--no matter how timid or filled-with-fear
the mind, the attitude begins to change within an hour after his
arrival.

For this is the home of perfect speech. Success is in the air.
Every step I take counteracts the tendency to fear and worry and
strain. I know what the stammerer needs. I know the things that
need to be done to quiet the hyper-nervous case. I know what to do
to banish that intense self-consciousness and make the student
self-forgetful. These things have been learned by experience. And
these gained-by-experience methods start the student in the right
way from the very first hour.

Pupils Are Met at the Train: We are glad to meet pupils at the
Union Station, where all trains over steam roads arrive, if the
student informs us beforehand (either by letter or telegram) the
road over which he is coming and the time he will arrive in this
city. There is no charge for this, it being merely a part of the
courtesy extended to students who are unfamiliar with the location
of the Institute. A small bow of blue ribbon should be worn as a
means of identification.

When You Arrive: If you have not written or telegraphed us to meet
you at the railway station, as soon as you arrive go to the
telephone booth and call the Bogue Institute and a representative
of the institute will be sent for you promptly.

Your Baggage: The transfer of baggage from the station to the
Institute will be attended to by our office. The Baggage Transfer
makes regular trips to the Institute for the purpose of looking
after the baggage of new students as well as those who have
completed the course and are leaving for home.

Entrance Requirements: It is necessary that every student entering
the Institute be of normal intelligence and at least eight years
of age. Every student must also be of good moral character and
must be able to speak the English language sufficiently well to
take the instruction. When a stammerer has been cured in one
language, however, he is cured in all languages. Rich and poor are
here treated with equal kindness, courtesy and respect. We believe
in those who are here to be cured, regardless of their station in
life, and we believe in helping them accomplish that purpose in as
short a time as is consistent with the results which they desire.

Grounds and Buildings: The Institute Building and Dormitory stand
in a large lot, ideally located, in a desirable residential
neighborhood away from the dirt, dust, noise and clamor of the
city and yet not so far out as to be in the least removed from the
city's activities.

Board and Room for Students: The Institute maintains its own
Dormitory and Boarding Department under the direct and immediate
supervision of the Institute authorities. To the right of the Main
Dormitory Building as you enter will be found the Dormitory for
girls and women, while on the left are located the General Offices
and the Dormitory for boys and men. Every facility has been
provided for the comfort and happiness of our pupils while at the
Institute. Room, board, heat, light, hot and cold baths and all
other comforts and conveniences are provided.

Sleeping Rooms: The pupils' sleeping rooms and apartments are
large, well-lighted, and well-ventilated. They are comfortable
both summer and winter, ample facilities being provided to heat
the entire building comfortably at all times.

All of the sleeping rooms as well as the entire Dormitory and
class-room are lighted with electricity. Each room contains
furnishings necessary to make the room comfortable and home-like.
Bath and face towels are furnished without extra cost, as is all
necessary bedding and linen. Commodious and spacious bathrooms,
with running water, and modern equipment are furnished for the
exclusive use of pupils.

Dining Room: Two large, airy and well-ventilated dining rooms are
located in the Main Dormitory Building. Here are served all meals,
made up in the most appetizing manner--wholesome menus planned for
the special needs of the type of students who come here. There is
no dieting, but meals are carefully balanced and highly seasoned
dishes or injurious food combinations are eliminated.

Every meal is prepared under the direct supervision of an
experienced chef. Under this direction our pupils are served with
some of the most delicious and healthful viands which can be put
together--all of which is evidenced by the students' enthusiastic
approbation of the Institute table fare.

Scrupulous Cleanliness: Every part of the Institute Buildings is
kept scrupulously clean--every day in the year. In this respect
the Bogue Institute surpasses many of the best hotels.

Library: The leading papers and magazines are constantly available
and we encourage students to keep in touch with the world of
events by regular reading.

How the Time is Spent: The order of the day is as follows:

    6:30 AM......................................Arise
    7 to 8 AM................................Breakfast
    8 to 9 AM............................Special Study
    9 to 11 AM................Morning Treatment Period
    11 to 12 AM....Progress Tests, Special Examination
                   and Personal Instruction
    12 to 2 PM.........................Luncheon Period
    2 to 4 PM........................Class Instruction
    4 to 6 PM...............................Recreation
    6 PM........................................Dinner
    8 PM.........Children's Junior Class Retiring Hour
    9 PM.........Children's Senior Class Retiring Hour
    10 PM...................Adults' Last Retiring Hour

There are no classes on Saturday afternoon nor on Sundays or
holidays. There are no evening or night classes at any time and no
student may enroll who is not in a position to devote all the
needed time to the pursuit of the work. There is no part-time
course, permitting the student to work or go to public or high
school while attending the Bogue Institute. The work here is too
important to become a "side-issue." We insist that it be the
student's regular and only absorbing activity.

LECTURES: From time to time during the year, open lectures are
given by myself and assistant instructors dealing with the
fundamentals of speech or kindred subjects aimed to make for the
students' rapid progress. These lectures are important and must be
attended by every student.

A CAREFULLY-PLANNED COURSE: Every step of the student's course
from the time of arising in the morning to the time of retiring at
night, is planned for the best results. Experience has taught us
what is best and the day's program is built upon the lines of
greatest progress in a given time. There are no haphazard steps in
this program--each activity accomplishes a desirable and necessary
result. These are the things that make for sure and rapid success
--and which insure that every day shall show progress over the day
before.

In the work of the Bogue Institute every student's course is under
my direct and personal supervision and direction. I am, of course,
necessarily aided by assistant instructors, each of whom was
selected with especial reference to his fitness for the work which
is entrusted to him.

Every Teacher is a Specialist: Each one is a specialist--a master,
backed not only by a thorough experience in the Bogue Institute,
but also having served an extended apprenticeship under my
personal instruction.

Every specialist responsible for any department of our instruction
must meet certain rigid qualifications. First, they must be well-
educated, refined and of the best character. They must understand
the stammerer's difficulty from a moral and mental standpoint as
well as from a technical standpoint. They must maintain a
naturally sympathetic, cheerful and helpful frame of mind at all
times and must be able to prove that the training under my hand
has thoroughly qualified them to serve the pupils of the Bogue
Institute.

The long period of training and apprenticeship, which has always
been an outstanding feature of our methods, could be done away
with, should I desire to cheapen the instruction. Inexperienced
instructors could be employed for less than half the compensation
of the experts I now employ--but these things could be sacrificed
only at the expense of results. For many years the superiority of
the Bogue Institute faculty has been nationally recognized and
this reputation we are today maintaining--and improving, where
this is possible.





CHAPTER VII

MY MOTHER AND THE HOME LIFE AT THE INSTITUTE


The home life at the Bogue Institute cannot be mentioned without
also mentioning my mother and the work she has done and is doing
to make this truly a home life. This is her work and she has
succeeded. She represents the pivotal point around which that home
life turns and she is the guiding spirit that makes the Institute
a real home for those who come here. It is her beneficent smile
that makes you feel at home when you arrive, her kindly influence
which makes you feel at home during your whole stay and her
smiling God-speed when you go, that makes you wish it were not
time to leave.

Under Mother Bogue's direction, the Institute is a busy, happy,
cheerful and well-ordered home for the big and happy family that
it houses.

Music is here for those who wish to play. Games and books and
magazines for those who would thus entertain themselves and
others. We are acquainted with the truth that "all work makes Jack
a dull boy--and Jill a dull girl"--and wholesome and worth-while
amusements and diversions are provided for all ages and all
occasions. These amusements are for those who wish them--those who
do not can always find rest and quiet in their own rooms.

Rowdyism is absent. The hoodlum is not here. We find no difficulty
in establishing standards of conduct that become the lady and the
gentleman--and the regulations that are in effect are based upon
the belief that those who come here can and will measure up to
these standards.

Unity of Purpose: One of the distinct advantages of the plan
whereby all students live in the Institute Dormitory is that all
who are here have come for a purpose and bear that thought in
mind. The student who sits beside you at the table is here for the
same purpose as yourself. You are both working for the same thing
--working earnestly, enthusiastically, seriously--and withal,
successfully--to be cured of stammering.

What does this mean?

It means that the very atmosphere of the Institute is saturated
with energy, enthusiasm and the spirit of successful endeavor.
Determination, application, success--these things are in the very
air you breathe. The spirit that carries an army to victory is
here--to carry you to victory and success.

Absolute Privacy in Treatment: There is absolutely no publicity
connected with the attendance of any student at the Institute.
Many students have attended without even their families or friends
being aware of the fact. Others have come leaving behind the
impression that they were visiting friends--which in truth, they
were, as they afterwards found those connected with the Institute
to be sincere and worth-while friends, indeed.

Even in carrying on correspondence regarding the course, no one
need know anything about your intentions, for upon no occasion
does the name of the Institute appear on the outside of any letter
or package addressed to you. Only the name "BENJAMIN N. BOGUE"
appears to identify the letter.

At no time will your name, address or any information about you in
connection with your name be published or discussed in any public
manner whatsoever without your permission.

Care of the Health: Every safeguard is thrown around the physical
welfare of those attending the Institute. The location and
extraordinary sanitary precautions almost preclude the possibility
of protracted illness--this was evidenced by the startling fact
that during the severe and nation-wide influenza epidemic of the
fall and winter of 1918-1919, not a single student of the
Institute was taken ill. This speaks wonders for the remarkable
good physical condition of the many students who were here at that
time.

In the event, however, that a student does become ill, the
Institute House Physician is at once summoned and in the case of a
child, this physician's opinion will be sent immediately to the
parents.

In illness as in health, the kindly, courteous and yet unobtrusive
services of Mother Bogue are at the disposal of the student. Every
care is bestowed, special meals provided and every want looked
after with the same pains as if the student were in his or her own
home.

Christian Influences: Indianapolis is a city of numerous beautiful
churches of all denominations, many of which are in the immediate
vicinity of the Institute. During the entire stay, students are
surrounded by the very best moral and religious influences and
each Sunday sees groups of students leaving the Institute to
attend services at the different churches.

Children Properly Cared For: Children placed in our care are given
special attention. As with the other students they are surrounded
with the most wholesome moral influences. Regulations provide that
they must remain inside the Institute grounds except during the
proper hours of the day, following their regular work. It is a
very frequent occurrence to have parents bring their children with
the idea of remaining with them during the course, only to return
home within a few days, leaving the children with us, having
satisfied themselves in that short time that the children are
being just as well cared for here as if they were in their own
homes.

Parents sometimes remark that children will get homesick and want
to go home, but our experience with hundreds of cases proves that
it is usually the parent who gets homesick to see the child
instead of the child getting homesick to see the parents. The
home-like surroundings of the Institute and the care and attention
which they are given, allow small opportunity for children to
become homesick, especially when it is remembered that they are
busy for the larger portion of the day, at work which is to them
of absorbing interest. In fact, we often find that children make
so many good friends that they are reluctant indeed when the time
comes for them to return home. Many of our students can testify
that some of the finest friendships of their lives had their
beginning here at the Bogue Institute.

Care for Ladies: My lady-assistants, as well as Mother Bogue, will
see to the comfort and enjoyment of lady-pupils. Ladies have their
own dormitories in a separate portion of the building and find
their stay a most enjoyable one.

A Reflection of Ideals: The congenial home-life at the Institute,
the minute attention to the wants of the students, the care given
to women and children, the solicitude for those who are ill or who
for any reason need special attention--this is but the reflection
of an ideal--that ideal is to make the Bogue Institute, not only
in instruction and results, but in every way, just what I would
have liked to have been able to find when I was searching for a
cure for stammering, more than twenty-five years ago. The
comforts, the conveniences, the atmosphere of helpfulness--these
things all contribute toward your quick and certain success--and
that, I may say, is why we have them.

THINGS YOU WANT TO KNOW

Deposit Surplus Money: As a matter of convenience to those who
bring with them extra money, we grant them the privilege of
depositing it in our safe. Other valuables may be left for safe-
keeping when desired. If the students prefer, they may deposit
money with one of the city banks. Pupils should not carry much
money with them; they may lose it.

Pupils' Mail: Relatives, friends and others addressing letters to
persons in attendance at this Institute should address all mail to
students: "c/o BENJ. N. BOGUE" to avoid delay in delivery.

Foreign Students: It will be necessary for those who speak foreign
languages to learn the English language before they will be
admitted to this Institute. The instruction is only given in
English, but persons of all nationalities can be cured if they
have the proper knowledge of the English language. When once cured
in one language, persons are cured in all languages, however.

Companions for Pupils: Parents, guardians or companions may
accompany small children or others, when they wish to do so. It is
entirely satisfactory for those accompanying the pupil to be
associated with the children during treatment. They may room
together, if desired, or they may secure adjoining rooms.

When You Leave for Home: When necessary, we secure railroad
tickets for our young pupils, check their baggage and place them
safely aboard the proper train, when they leave Indianapolis for
home, and otherwise take especial and careful interest in having
them properly started homeward after their stay with us.

Rich and Poor Stand Equal: Claim is made that this is one of the
most commendable features of the Institute. It is not so in all
institutes. Fine clothes and freedom with money are not the test
by which the student secures his standing, but by his earnest,
faithful work and gentlemanly or lady-like conduct. It is inward
worth, not outward adornment and display of wealth, that wins
friends and gives the student a place on our roll of honor. The
student is judged by what he is, and not by what he has.

Neglected Education: No one need hesitate to place himself under
our instruction on account of neglected education or advanced age.
All embarrassments are carefully avoided. Scores of backward
pupils, who do not even know how to read or write, enter every
year, and are entirely and permanently cured by the Unit Method.





CHAPTER VIII

A HEART-TO-HEART TALK WITH PARENTS


If you are the mother or father of a child who stammers, you
should first of all read Chapters IX to XIV, inclusive, in Part
Two of this book. These chapters deal with the speech disorders of
children from before the first spoken word up until the age of 21,
when structurally as well as legally the mind and body of the
infant merge into that of the adult.

No mother or father can understand their child's disorder without
having read these Chapters. To fail to understand is to multiply
the chance for error in deciding what to do. Therefore, I repeat,
if you are the mother or father of a boy or girl who stammers,
read chapters on Child Stammering before you go further.

There are three mistaken beliefs in the minds of many parents of
stammering children which must be rooted out before the child will
have an opportunity to be cured of his trouble.

These beliefs are:

    1--That the child will outgrow his trouble and therefore need
       only be permitted to "grow older," at which tune the trouble
       will disappear.
    2--That the child could stop stammering if he would try--that
       the trouble is but a malicious habit of the child's, which
       he could put away from him if he would.
    3--That the child's trouble is incurable and that nothing can
       be done for him.

All of these beliefs are entirely fallacious and based purely upon
ignorance of the cause and progress of the child's trouble. There
is not the slightest scientific foundation for them, they are not
beliefs based on facts or upon experience--yet in many homes, they
constitute the chief obstacle between the stammering child and his
complete and permanent cure.

As long as you believe that your child will out-grow his or her
trouble, you take no steps to have the disorder eradicated.

What happens?

The trouble becomes worse from month to month and from year to
year, until in many cases where the "outgrowing belief" persists,
the trouble passes into a chronic and incurable stage and the
stammering child becomes the stammering man or woman, condemned to
go through life under a handicap almost too great to bear.

Write it on your heart that your child will not outgrow his
trouble. Ponder over the information given in the Chapters on
Child Stammering. This is not hearsay or guess-work but facts
gleaned from a lifetime of experience.

If you, as the father or mother of a stammering child, cling to
the second belief, that your child could stop stammering if he
would try, then I can see from this distance that your child has
stored up for him in the future, more than his due of misery. For
as long as you believe that he can stop of his own free will, you
will be impatient with him when he stammers. You will scold him
and tell him to "stop that kind of talking!" Thus you will
irritate him, and bring to his heart that sickening sensation that
he is totally helpless in the grip of his speech disorder and yet--
"Oh, why will they not understand?"

Like the first belief, this belief that the child could stop if he
wanted to, is based upon ignorance. No mother or father who has
ever experienced the sensation of fear that grips the heart of the
stammering child when he tries to speak, will say that he could
stop if he would.

I say to you--and I want to emphasize this--that the first and
foremost ambition of your child who stammers, is to be free from
it. The greatest day of his life will be the day when he can talk
without that fear, without sticking and stumbling and hesitating
over his utterances.

I say to you again--if that boy or girl of yours could stop their
stammering, he or she would stop it this very instant. They would
never stammer again--if they were endowed with the power to stop.
But they are not. That is the very seed of their trouble--their
inability to control the actions of the vocal organs so as to
produce normal speech. They have lost the control of those organs
and they cannot of their own volition re-establish that control.

The third belief, that stammering cannot be cured, is so easily
demolished that I shall devote but little time to it. It, like all
false beliefs, has its foundation in ignorance. The mother or
father who knows the facts, knows also that stammering can be
cured. You may not know whether your boy or girl can be cured, but
you are offered a way to find out--definitely and positively, by
describing your child's case on my Diagnosis Blank and returning
it to me for a thorough Diagnosis.

Put your beliefs to one side--whatever they may be. You can get
the facts if you want them. You can learn the truth if you will.
Truth is better than false beliefs and facts are better than
superstition or hearsay, which in every case leads to misery,
dejection and despair--a ruined life where a successful, happy and
contented life might have been--except for stammering.

You have a well-defined responsibility to your son or daughter.
You have a duty to perform--that is, to equip that boy or girl of
yours to go out into the world as well equipped as any other boy
or girl--and that means equipped with perfect speech--without
which they will be too greatly handicapped to fully succeed.





CHAPTER IX

THE DANGERS OF DELAY


In many of the cases which have come to my attention in the past
many years, the stammerer or stutterer has been afflicted with a
malady more difficult to cure than stammering, viz.: The Habit of
Procrastination.

"Oh, I will wait a little while," says the stammerer. "A little
while can't make any difference!" And then the little while grows
into a big while and the big while grows into a year and the year
grows into a lifetime and he is still stammering.

Several months ago, an old man, stooped in stature, care-worn of
countenance and halting of step, presented himself to me for
diagnosis. His face was drawn into long, hard lines. His eyes
shifted from side to side, glancing furtively here and there.

In his trembling hands was a worn old derby which he turned about
nervously as he stood there talking. The nervousness, the
trembling of the hands, the drawn face, the shifting eyes--all
this was explained by the story that this man told as he sat there
beside the desk.

"I fell from a ladder when I was ten years old," he said. "After
that, I always stammered. My parents thought it was a habit--I can
remember yet how my mother scolded me day after day and told me to
'quit talking that way.' But it was useless to tell me to quit. I
COULDN'T quit! If I could have done it, certainly I WOULD, for
having stammered yourself, you know what it means.

"School now began to be a burden. I think I must have supplied fun
for every boy on the school grounds during recess-time, for if
there was a boy who didn't make fun of me and mock me and laugh at
me, then I don't know who he was.

"Then one day I started back to school at noontime, saw a crowd of
boys on the corner a couple of blocks away, thought of what a task
it would be to go into that crowd or try to pass it. A mortal and
unreasoning fear came over me. Try as I would, I couldn't screw my
courage up to the point of going past that crowd. But I had small
choice. It was either go that way or stay out of school. And stay
out of school I did.

"And then came the crucial day. I could not ask my parents to
vouch for any absence--I dared not tell them I was not there. So I
went back without an excuse. The teacher was angry. She tried to
get me to talk, but I could not say a word. So she sent me to the
principal. She, too, asked me to explain. Try as I would, I
couldn't get the first word out. Not a sound.

"She, too, failed to understand. Result: I was expelled from
school--sorry day--nobody seemed to understand my trouble--nobody
seemed to sympathize with me--a stammerer.

"Although I pretended to be at school, before the week was out, my
parents found out. Then a storm ensued. I tried to tell them the
truth. They wouldn't listen. Father stormed and mother scolded.
There seemed to be no living for me there. So I ran away from
home--ran away because my parents wouldn't listen--because they
wouldn't try to understand.

"Then my troubles began in real earnest. I won't worry you with
the details. I got a job--lost it. Got another--lost that. How
many times that story was repeated I do not know. And remember--I
was but a boy!"

Here the old man stopped, his head dropped, his unkempt beard
brushed the front of a tattered shirt, that had seen its day. He
seemed lost in thought--he was living again those days and those
nights when he had wandered an outcast from the world. He was
living over a lifetime in a moment.

He sat there several moments--thoughts far away. Then he raised
his head and there was a tear in the corner of his eye as he said,
"But why should I go on? Look at me. See WHERE I am. See WHAT I
am. You would think I am over 70--I am not yet 50. But it is too
late to do any good. Here I am homeless, friendless, almost
penniless. Nobody cares what happens. Nobody would notice if
anything should happen. Nobody has a job for me--a stammerer. If I
could talk, I could work. If I could talk--Oh, but why tell it
again? It is too late now--too late to do any good!!"

He was right. It was too late. Too late, indeed.

This man was one of the Too-Laters--one of the Put-It-Offs, one of
the Procrastinators. His might be called the story of the Man Who
Waited.

First, his parents refused to listen. His teachers, even, failed
to understand his trouble. And when he got out in the world he put
it off, this matter of being cured of stammering. He Waited! He
kept saying to himself that he would do it tomorrow--next week--
next month. And tomorrow never came. Next week and next month ran
into next year--and next year ran into a case that was hopeless
and incurable.

He Waited!! How tragic those two words. He Waited! And his waiting
sounded the death-knell of a thousand boyhood hopes. HE WAITED!!
And health slowly took wings and flew away. HE WAITED!! And the
insidious little Devil-of-Fear piece by piece tore down his will-
power, sapped his power-of-concentration. HE WAITED!! And that
first simple nervous condition turned into something near akin to
palsy.

On the tombstone of that man when they lay him under his six-feet-
of-earth, they might truly inscribe the words: "A Failure"--and
should they wish to set down the reason, they might add: "He
Waited!"

To the stammerer's question: "When should I begin treatment for my
stammering?" and "At what stage will I stand the best chance of
being most quickly cured?" there is but one answer. The time for
the stammerer or stutterer to begin treatment for his malady is
the day he discovers his stammering or stuttering. The best chance
for being quickly cured exists today.

The stammerer, then, to paraphrase Emerson, should "Write it on
his heart that TODAY is the very best day in the year." He should
remember that indecision, delay, uncertainty, vacillation, lead to
oblivion and that his only redemption lies in that golden
opportunity known as--TODAY!






Etext prepared by Dianne Bean, Prescott Valley, Arizona.

STUDIES FROM COURT AND CLOISTER BEING ESSAYS, HISTORICAL AND LITERARY,
DEALING MAINLY WITH SUBJECTS RELATING TO THE XVITH AND XVIITH CENTURIES

BY J. M. STONE

AUTHOR OF "MARY THE FIRST, QUEEN OF ENGLAND," "REFORMATION AND
RENAISSANCE," ETC.

LONDON AND EDINBURGH
SANDS AND COMPANY
ST LOUIS, MO.
B. HERDER, 17 SOUTH BROADWAY
1908

PREFACE

These studies on various crucial points connected with the history of
religion in Europe at the close of the Middle Ages, its decline,
revival, and the causes which led to both, have already appeared in
print as regards their general outline, although they have for the most
part been rewritten, added to, and in each case subjected to a careful
revision.

Three of them were originally published in the Dublin Review, four in
the Scottish Review, two in Blackwood's Magazine, and three in the
Month. One was a contribution to the American Catholic Quarterly
Review. By the courtesy of the respective editors of these publications
I am enabled to gather them together in this volume.

It will be seen at a glance that a certain cohesion, historical and
chronological, exists in their present arrangement, especially with
reference to Part I.

The two first studies concern Henry VIII. and his sister the Queen of
Scots, the significance of their matrimonial affairs, and the relations
which their policy created between England, Scotland, France, and the
Empire. The third study has for its subject the distinguished and
much-maligned Lieutenant of the Tower of London, who contributed so
largely to the accession of the rightful sovereign, and who was
appointed to be governor of the Princess Elizabeth during her captivity
at Woodstock. His subsequent persecution for the sake of religion was
the consequence of Henry VIIIth's rupture with Rome, and Elizabeth's
repudiation of England's Catholic past. And as we can only gain an
intelligible view of any historical movement by studying its context,
its broad outlines, and its connection with foreign nations, the fourth
essay describes the condition to which the religious revolution had
reduced Germany in the sixteenth century, and the reconversion of a
great part of that country, as well as of Austria and Switzerland, to
the Catholic faith. This was the work of the Jesuit, Peter Canisius,
and we are thus led to a consideration of the newly-founded Society of
Jesus and its methods. Its members soon became noted for sanctity and
learning, and emperors, kings, and royal princes clamoured for Jesuits
as confessors. The manner in which these acquitted themselves of the
difficult and unwelcome task imposed on them, is unconsciously revealed
by themselves, in the private correspondence of members of the old
Society, which has now been given to the world by one of their Order.
Selections from this correspondence are contained in the fifth study.
As a further result of the revolution that had been effected in the
casting off of old beliefs and traditions, we note the revival of
Pantheism, an ancient, atheistic philosophy, whose modern apostle was
the celebrated Giordano Bruno. His otherwise fruitless visit to England
left a deep impression on certain minds, learned and ignorant, and we
begin for the first time to hear of examinations and prosecutions for
atheism in this country. And this forms the subject of the sixth essay.
The recoil that invariably takes place after any great political,
social, or religious upheaval was not wanting to the Reformation in
England, and in the reign of Charles I. High-Churchism, under
Archbishop Laud, was thought to indicate a desire on the part of the
royalists for a return to Catholic unity. A Papal agent was dispatched
to England to negotiate between the Catholic Queen, Henrietta Maria and
Cardinal Barberini, with a view to the conversion of her husband, which
would, it was hoped, ultimately issue in the corporate reunion of the
country with Rome.

Thus, Part I. deals with some of the persons who had "their exits and
their entrances", who made history during this interesting period. Part
II. treats more especially the books and manuscripts connected with it.
The theme is therefore the same.

Even before England was England, she was the Isle of Saints, and
throughout the Middle Ages religion was her chief care, in a manner
almost incredible in this secular and materialistic age. She not only
covered the land with magnificent churches and cathedrals, to the
architecture of which we cannot in these days approach, even by
imitation, distantly, but she also built huge monasteries, and these
monasteries were the cradles, the homes of vast stores of
ever-accumulating knowledge. A system of philosophy, to which the world
is even now returning, recognising that there is no better training for
the human intellect, is so distinctly mediaeval, that all that savoured
even remotely of St. Thomas Aquinas or Duns Scotus in the University
was utterly destroyed in a great bonfire made at Oxford in 1549. At the
dissolution of the monasteries by Henry VIII., the labour, the
learning, the genius of centuries were as nought. Exquisitely written
and illuminated Bibles, missals and other choice manuscripts,
displaying a wealth of palaeographic art to which we have lost the key,
were torn from their jewelled bindings, and were either thrown aside to
spoil and rot, or to become the prey of any who needed wrappers for
small merchandise. It is a marvel that so many should have escaped
destruction, to be collected when men had returned to their sane
senses, and formed again into libraries for the delight and instruction
of posterity to the end of time. And almost as strange as this
circumstance, is the fact that so few among us know of the existence of
these treasures which have become our national inheritance. Otherwise,
how could the reviewer of one of our foremost literary publications, in
his notice of the exhibition of medieval needlework at the Burlington
Fine Arts Club, in the spring of 1905, have discovered in it a
surprising revelation of the "refinement" of the Middle Ages?

The three last studies in the present volume are, therefore, devoted to
a description of some of the precious spoils of mediaeval refinement.
Where all is so splendidly beautiful, so deeply erudite, or so tenderly
naif, choice is difficult; but at all events, here are a few of the
priceless gems with which the Dark Ages have endowed a scornful
after-world.

And lest it should be supposed that all this mediaeval piety and
devotion sprang up suddenly, with no apparent raison d'etre, I have
gone further back, and have shown that with the first dawn of
Christianity over these Islands, religion was no other than in the
twelfth, thirteenth, and fourteenth centuries. The Arthurian legends,
which Sir Thomas Malory wove into one consecutive whole, had been
handed down from generation to generation for many hundreds of years.
Sometimes they had been written in the French language, but they lived
in the minds of the people, and Sir Lancelot, who died "a holy man,"
was as vivid and real to them as was Richard, the troubadour king. With
the story of his sharp penance, his fasting and prayers for the soul of
Guinevere, was also handed down incidentally the tradition of Britain's
obedience to the "Apostle Pope".

Some time after the Anglo-Saxon conquest, in the eighth century, was
set up a wonderful churchyard Cross at Ruthwell in Scotland, a
"folk-book in stone," alluded to in the Act passed by the General
Assembly of the Church of Scotland in 1642, "anent the Idolatrous
Monuments in Ruthwell," and already two years previously condemned by
that enlightened body to be "taken down, demolished, and destroyed."
The story of this ancient Cross, and that of the runes carved upon it,
form the subject of the opening study of Part II.

Little need be said here of Foxe, the great calumniator of Queen Mary's
bishops. His book, which so long deceived the world, is no more the
power it once was, but in it lay the venom which poisoned the wells, as
far as the ill-fated reign of Mary was concerned; and the essay which
deals with it could scarcely have been omitted.

In the hope that I have been enabled to throw a faint ray of additional
light on some vexed but interesting questions, this volume is put
forward.

J. M. S.

September 1905.



CONTENTS

PART I

I. MARGARET TUDOR

II. NOR WIFE NOR WIDOW

III. A NOTABLE ENGLISHMAN

IV. THE CATHOLIC REFORMATION IN GERMANY

V. JESUITS AT COURT

VI. GIORDANO BRUNO IN ENGLAND

VII. CHARLES THE FIRST AND THE POPISH PLOT

PART II

I. THE RUNIC CROSSES OF NORTHUMBRIA

II. A MISSING PAGE FROM THE "IDYLLS OF THE KING"

III. FOXES BOOK OF ERRORS

IV. THE SPOILS OF THE MONASTERIES

V. THE ROYAL LIBRARY

VI. THE HARLEIAN COLLECTION OF MANUSCRIPTS



STUDIES FROM COURT AND CLOISTER

I. MARGARET TUDOR

Notwithstanding the spy-system which was brought to so great a
perfection under the Tudors, the study of human nature was in their
days yet in its infancy. The world had long ceased to be ingenuous, but
nations had not yet learned civilised methods of guarding themselves
against their enemies. At a time when distrust was general, it was
easier, like Machiavelli, to erect deceit and fraud into a science, and
to teach the vile utility of lying, than to scrutinise character and
weigh motives. It was then generally understood that opponents might
legitimately be hoodwinked to the limits of their gullibility; but it
was reserved for Lord Chesterfield, two centuries later, to show how a
man's passions must be studied with microscopic intensity in order to
discover his prevailing passion, and how, that passion once discovered,
he should never be trusted where it was concerned. The study of men's
characters and motives as we understand it, formed no part of the
policy of sixteenth-century statecraft, or Wolsey would not have been
disgraced, or Thomas Cromwell's head have fallen on the block. Wolsey
and Cromwell were the subtlest statesmen of their age; indeed, in them
statecraft may be said to have had its dawn; yet Henry VIII., by the
sheer force of his tyranny and despotic will, baffled them both. While
Cromwell, the greatest genius in Europe, thought he held all the
threads of intrigue in his own hands, his royal master by the dogged
pursuit of one end overthrew the minister's entire scheme. Saturated
though he was with Machiavellian theories, a man of one book, and that
book The Prince, Cromwell lost all by his inability to read the bent of
Henry's mind and purpose.

Henry VIII. and his elder sister, Margaret, were strikingly alike in
character. Both proved themselves to be cruel, vindictive,
unscrupulous, sensual, and vain. Both were extraordinarily clever, but
Henry being far better educated than his sister, contrived to cut a
much more imposing, if not a more dignified, figure. In the matter of
intrigue, there was nothing to choose between them. That Henry
succeeded where Margaret failed, was owing to the fact that
circumstances were in his favour and not in hers. Given two such
characters, the only parts that were possible to them were dominating
ones. Henry was master of the situation all through the piece; Margaret
was not, but she could play no other part. Had she been differently
constituted, had she been barely honest, true, constant, and pure,
there is no limit to the love and loyalty she would certainly have
inspired.

But, for want of insight into Margaret Tudor's disposition, the
Scottish people were repeatedly betrayed by one whose interests they
fondly hoped had become, by marriage with their king, identical with
their own. She had come among them at an age when new impressions are
quickly taken and experiences of every kind have necessarily been very
limited, but to the end of her days she remained an alien in their
midst.

From the moment that she set foot in Scotland, as a bride of thirteen,
she began to sow discord; but although it was soon apparent that she
would seize every occasion to turn public events to her own profit,
James IV. had so mistaken a belief in her one day becoming a good
Scotswoman, that when he went to his death on Flodden Field, he left
the whole welfare of his country in her hands. Not only did he confide
the treasure of the realm to her custody, but by his will he appointed
her to the Regency, with the sole guardianship of his infant son.

Such a thing was unprecedented in Scotland, and it needed all the
fidelity of the Scottish lords to their chivalrous sovereign, as well
as their enthusiasm for his young and beautiful widow, to induce them
to tolerate an arrangement so distasteful to them all. Had Margaret
cared to fit herself for the duties that lay before her, her lot might
have been a brilliant one. Instead of the wretched wars which made a
perpetual wilderness of the Borders, keeping the nation in a constant
state of ferment, an advantageous treaty would have secured prosperity
to both England and Scotland, while the various disturbing factions,
which rendered Scotland so difficult to govern by main force, would
gradually have subsided under the gentle influence of a queen who
united all parties through the loyalty she inspired. Fierce and
rebellious as were so many of the elements which went to make up the
Scottish people at that time, Margaret had a far easier task than her
grand-daughter, Mary Stuart, for at least fanatical religious
differences did not enter into the difficulties she had to encounter.
But such a queen of Scotland as would have claimed the respect and won
the lasting love of her subjects was by no means the Margaret Tudor of
history, as she stands revealed in her correspondence.

While James IV. lived she had comparatively few opportunities of
betraying State secrets, but from the disaster of Flodden to her death,
her history is one long series of intrigues, the outcome of her ruling
passions--vanity and greed. Her first short-sighted act of treachery
after the death of James was to appropriate to her own use the treasure
which he had entrusted to her for his successors, the queen thereby
incurring life-long retribution in her ineffectual attempts to wring
her jointure from an exchequer which she had herself wantonly
impoverished. Hence the tiresome and ridiculous wrangling in connection
with her "conjunct feoffment," neither Margaret nor Henry being
conscious, in the complete absence of all sense of humour on their
part, that the situation was occasionally grotesque. Stolidly unmindful
of the effect they produced on the minds of others in the pursuit of
their own selfish ends, they pursued the tenor of their way with
bucolic doggedness. The doggedness ended in the defeat of all Henry's
enemies; in Margaret's case it ended in her own.

The eleven months which elapsed between the 9th September 1513 to the
4th August 1514, were the most eventful of her whole life. The
catastrophe of Flodden left her, perhaps not without cause, the least
mournful woman in Scotland, for James IV., with all the heroism that
attaches to his name, had little claim to be called a faithful husband.
Unhindered, therefore, by any excess of grief, she was the better able
to attend to the affairs of State, and to hasten the coronation of her
little son, a baby of one year and five months. In December she
convened the Parliament of Scotland to meet at Stirling Castle, and
formally took up the dignity of regent with the consent of the
assembled nobility of the realm. At this sitting the greatest unanimity
prevailed. In the Acts of the Privy Council of Scotland, under date
12th January 1514, occurs the following entry: "To advise of the
setting up of the Queen's household, and what persons and officers are
necessary thereto, and to advise of the expenses for the supportation
of the same, and by what ways it shall be gotten." All was peace for a
short time, and the most friendly relations existed between the queen
and her Council, till the first high-handed attempt of Henry VIII. to
interfere through his sister in the government of Scotland, resulted in
her temporary banishment, and the removal of the infant king from his
mother's care.*

* P. Martyr, Ep. 535. For a detailed account of the state of Scotland
for the first nine years after the disastrous defeat at Flodden, see
vol. xiv. Of the Exchequer Rolls of Scotland, edited by George Burnett,
LL.D., Lyon King-of-Arms, and A. Y. G. Mackay, M.A. (Oxon.), LL.D.
(Edin.), etc., His Majesty's General Register House, Edinburgh.


On the 30th April Margaret gave birth to a posthumous son, who received
the title of Duke of Rothesay; and scarcely had she reappeared in
public after the birth of this child, when an envoy from the Emperor
Maximilian brought overtures of marriage. About the same time, she
received a like proposal from Louis XII. of France, who afterwards
married her younger sister Mary. Dismissing both aspirants to her hand,
before the first year of her widowhood had run its course, she married
Archibald, Earl of Angus, Margaret being in her twenty-fifth, he in his
nineteenth year. The union was equally unfortunate for the queen
herself and for her wretched husband, who, when the first charm of
novelty had passed, was disdainfully flung aside, and never restored to
favour.

There was an ancient custom of the realm, which placed the executive
power and the person of the king, should he be a minor at the death of
the preceding sovereign, in the hands of the next male heir, and the
appointment of James's widow to the regency and the guardianship of his
son was made in distinct disregard of all recognised precedent. The
consent of the Scottish lords to the innovation had been given entirely
from a sense of loyalty to their beloved and unfortunate monarch James
IV. But a proviso had been made in his will, that in the event of the
queen's remarriage, the regency, as well as the guardianship of the
king, should pass to John, Duke of Albany, the next heir to the throne.

But Margaret, who had not scrupled to make away with the royal
treasure, was scarcely likely to be very conscientious in regard to the
duty of laying down a sceptre, the pleasantness of which she had only
just begun to taste. She was already at variance with her Council, who,
in despair of any order being established, had invited Albany, then in
France, to come over and take up the reins of government. As early as
April 1514, a Bill for his recall had been read in Parliament, and it
was formally enacted that all the fortresses in Scotland should be
given up, a blow aimed primarily at Stirling, the queen's chief
stronghold.* Here she and Angus had shut themselves up, on hearing that
Beaton, Archbishop of Glasgow, was marching on Edinburgh. They were
captured, but escaped and returned to Stirling, where they were
besieged by John Hepburn, Prior of St. Andrews.

* Brewer--Preface to Cal. 2, part i. (note).


Margaret, assuming a tone of injured innocence, wrote to Henry VIII.,
telling him that she and her party are in great trouble till they know
what help he will give them; that her enemies continue to usurp the
king's authority in Parliament, holding her and her friends to be
rebels; and she entreats him to hasten his army against Scotland by sea
and by land.* This was clearly as much an act of treason as if she had
deliberately invited any other foreign enemy to come and take
possession of the realm; for although her object was merely to regain
the powers she had lost by her own acts, she could estimate the ruin
which would have resulted to Scotland, if Henry had really been in a
position to invade the country. His answer to her appeal was to send
the most urgent instructions to his sister to prevent Albany's landing
by every means at her disposal. In the meanwhile she waited
impatiently, but in vain, for both troops and money from Henry, who did
not think it necessary to inform her that the French king had agreed to
detain Albany in France, on condition that his dear cousin should send
his sister no help, but leave the various parties in Scotland to fight
out their quarrels alone.

* Queen Margaret to Henry VI II., 23rd November 1514; MS. Cott., Calig.
B 1, 164; Brit. Mus.


As a result of this policy, Margaret at last began to find her position
intolerable, and she, no less than her enemies looked forward to the
duke's arrival as a means of extricating herself from a labyrinth of
difficulties. This was perhaps what Francis I. had foreseen;
notwithstanding his promise to Henry, he had no intention of
permanently preventing Albany, who was more than half a Frenchman, from
assuming a dignity that would result in a strong bond of union between
Scotland and France. Albany was therefore quietly allowed to escape at
a given moment; and when, after running the gauntlet of Henry's ships,
which were watching for him, he landed in Scotland, Margaret resolved,
for once wisely, to be friends with him.*

* Seb. Giustinian to the Doge, London, 5th August 1515; Venetian
Archives.


But Henry instructed Lord Dacre, the formidable chief of the Marches,
to stir up all the strife possible between his sister, the new regent,
and the Scottish lords, and accordingly, whenever there was a sign of a
better understanding between the three parties, Dacre was always
careful to insinuate to the queen that her brother was her best friend.
Finding that Albany had escaped the vigilance of his fleet, Henry wrote
a high-handed letter to the Scottish Council requesting that he might
be sent back to France forthwith. Their reply was as dignified as
Albany's own conduct throughout, and in strong contrast to Margaret's
attitude. They have, they say, received Henry's letter, dated 1st July
1516, desiring them to remove John, Duke of Albany, the regent from the
person of their king, in order to promote the amity of the two realms.
The duke was chosen Protector by the unanimous voice of the Three
Estates, and was sent for by them from France; he left his master, his
lady, his living; he has taken great pains in the king's service; he
has given, and proposes to give, no cause for dissatisfaction, and if
he would leave, they would not let him. Moreover, it is in exact
conformity with their laws that the nearest in succession should have
the governance; security has been taken by the queen and others to
remove all cause of suspicion, and they will spend their lives if any
attempt be made against his Highness.* This document was signed and
sealed by twenty-eight spiritual and temporal lords, whose names are
still legible. Ten other names are mutilated beyond recognition,
although their seals remain.

* Scottish lords to Henry VIII., 4th July 1516; Record Office.


Albany had meanwhile written to Lord Dacre, denying that he had usurped
the king's authority, and declaring that he had done nothing but by
order of the Estates of the realm. But Henry was bent on picking a
quarrel with him, and Dacre's letter to the King of England's Council
shows the part which Dacre was instructed to play in the troubles of
Scotland, fomenting feuds between Albany and every member of his
government, in the hope of driving him out of the country.* Difficult,
however, as Henry's policy made it, the regent was bent on maintaining
peace, and would probably have succeeded but for Margaret.**

* Cotton MS., Calig. B 2, 341; Brit. Mus.

** Albany to Dacre,10th August 1515; R.O.


The good understanding between the regent and the queen was first
broken by his summons to her to deliver up the royal children into his
custody, a cruel but necessary proceeding, since the regency was
inseparable from the governorship of the king and the next heir.

A true and tender chord is struck at last, when Margaret, appealing to
Henry, exclaims, "God send I were such a woman as might go with my
bairns in mine arms. I trow I should not be long fra you!" Nor is it
possible to feel aught but sympathy for her, when she allows herself to
be stormed in Stirling Castle before she suffers her children to be
torn from her. Dacre professed to believe, and perhaps caused Margaret
to fear, that they would be destroyed if they fell into the Duke of
Albany's power. But the very day on which Dacre wrote to Henry's
Council, advising that money should be sent to enable her to hold out,
the regent prepared to bombard her, and it was not till her friends had
forsaken her, flying for their lives and in terror of Albany's
proclamation, that placing the keys of the fortress in her little son's
hands, she desired him to give them to the regent, and to beg him to
show favour to himself, to his brother, and to her husband. The regent
answered that he would be good to the king, to his brother, and to
their mother; but that as for Angus, he "would not dalye with no
traitor." *

* Cotton MS. Calig. B 2, 369; B.M.


No sooner had Margaret given up her children, than she began to
manoeuvre how to steal them back and spirit them over the Border. While
pretending to be too ill to leave her palace at Linlithgow, where she
gave out she had "taken to her chamber" in anticipation of her
approaching confinement, she effected her escape into England, but her
plan for capturing the king and his brother failed. Nothing could now
exceed her desolate condition, as, wandering from place to place,
alone, ill, and worse than friendless, she sought in vain a refuge in
all that wild Border region where she might await her hour of peril.
Angus, seeing the turn affairs had taken, had thought it prudent to
abandon her to her fate, and, after helping her to escape, returned to
Scotland in the hope of coming to terms with Albany. His wife was at
last thankful to accept Lord Dacre's rough hospitality in his gloomy
castle of Harbottle. Here in the midst of a brutal soldiery, with no
woman to render her the most needful service, she gave birth to a
daughter, the Lady Margaret Douglas, on the 5th October 1515. On the
10th she wrote to Albany to announce her delivery "of a cristen sowle
beying a young lady," and miserably ill though she was, did not omit to
demand "as tutrix of the young king and prince, her tender children, to
have the whole rule and governance of Scotland."

To this letter Margaret received an answer written by the Council,
stating that the governance of the realm had expired with the death of
her husband, and had devolved to the Estates; that with her consent
they had appointed the Duke of Albany; that she had forfeited the
tutelage of her children by her second marriage, and that in all
temporal matters the realm of Scotland had been immediately subject to
Almighty God, not recognising the Pope or any superior upon earth.

Herewith the queen was forced to content herself; further words would
have proved as unavailing as reeds against the tempest, and even words
were soon beyond her power to write, for the birth of her daughter was
succeeded by a long and painful illness which nearly proved fatal to
the unhappy woman. To add to the bitterness of her trials, at the
moment when she was beginning slowly to recover, came the news of the
illness and death of the little Duke of Rothesay. Grief, anger, and
anxiety for the safety of the king served naturally to increase the
gravity of her condition, and for months she lay hovering between life
and death, loudly accusing Albany of having murdered her child.

This accusation was reiterated to Albany himself as soon as her
unsteady hand could grasp a pen; but the regent took no heed of her
stinging words, continued to invite her to return to Scotland, in spite
of her persistent refusal, and apparently succeeded at last in
convincing her of his innocence.

On her recovery she wrote to him from Morpeth, to announce her
departure for the south, Henry having invited her to his court,
accompanying his invitation with presents of costly stuffs, and money,
and clothing for the baby.

A letter from Margaret to the regent at this moment is significant of a
sudden change in her demeanour towards him, and to judge by her
subsequent behaviour, the change meant treachery. Instead of the fierce
denunciations she had lately indulged in, she acknowledged that she had
often received goodly and pleasant words as well as letters from him,
and "though his conduct has not always corresponded to them, yet as
matters are being accommodated" she hopes he will reform it. The
meaning of this change of tactics became clear to all but the regent
himself---who seems to have been of a singularly unsuspicious
nature--as soon as Margaret reached London.

Albany was still hoping for a permanent peace with Henry, and more than
once expressed a wish to pay him a friendly visit. This both Henry and
Margaret encouraged him to do, and writing to Wolsey about this time,
the Scottish queen expressed the most fervent hope that the regent
would come, counterbalanced by the fears that he would not.* Had the
matter rested entirely with himself, the visit would certainly have
taken place, but his Council having some reason to doubt Henry's fair
and plausible words, were urgent in dissuading him. All things
considered, it is probable that the duke would have repented of his
temerity if he had placed his head within the lion's jaws.

* Cotton MS., Vesp. F 3, 36; B.M.


Having failed to inveigle the regent into their power, the brother and
sister instructed Dacre to "sow debate" between him and his Council,
but this scheme failed also. Dacre wrote, however, to show that he was
not wanting in zeal in this behalf, saying that, being unable to
interfere with Scottish affairs in any other way, he had given rewards
to four hundred outlaws for burnings in various parts of the kingdom.*
No means proved too vile, no instrument unworthy, to be employed in the
work of destroying the regent and advancing Tudor interests. The queen
even condescended to use her truant husband, and the part played by
Angus is scarcely less reprehensible than Margaret's own, for while he
pretended to be loyal to Albany and to Scotland, he possessed himself
of every important State secret and transmitted it to his wife, in the
hope of appeasing her for his desertion. She, of course, passed on all
that she thus learned to Henry and Wolsey.

* Dacre to Wolsey; Calig. B 1, 150; B.M.


Margaret was entertained for a whole year in pomp and splendour at the
English court, feasts and revels succeeding each other in bewildering
magnificence-- luxury in vivid contrast to the misery which she had
undergone during the first months after her flight from Scotland.
Pageants, tournaments, and banquets now took the place of privation and
suffering; all that met the eye was changed, but the dark and
treacherous under-currents known to but few of her contemporaries
remained the same, and were the realities that shaped her course. In
spite, however, of plots and intrigues, Margaret's position was not
improving. Her visit to England could not be prolonged indefinitely,
and as the queen was evidently not to return to Scotland in triumph, it
was desirable to make as good terms for herself as she possibly could.

The regent promised that her jointure should be paid, and that Angus
should be allowed to join her if he were willing to do so--a somewhat
doubtful alternative, as he had not availed himself of the leave that
had already been given him. As for Albany himself, he declared that it
had always been his desire to gratify the queen, and to advise the best
for her and for her son.* Reluctantly, therefore, she at last prepared
to turn her face northwards, having obtained permission to take with
her a suite befitting her station, safe-conduct being granted, except
in the case of any person among them plotting harm to the kingdom; and
to these conditions Henry set his great seal.

* Calig. B 2, 262; B.M.


A letter from the Venetian envoy to the Doge, dated 13th April 1517,
says: "The truce between England and Scotland has been arranged. The
queen is to return, but is not to be admitted to the administration of
the kingdom. She may take with her twenty-four Englishmen, and as many
Scotch as she pleases, provided they be not rebels"; and he adds that
he has been assured of these facts by Albany's secretary.

All was done to make her journey as easy as possible; but when Margaret
arrived at Berwick, it needed all Dacre's powers of persuasion to
induce her to enter Scotland. At Lamberton Kirk, contrary to the
regent's expectation, she was met by Angus, accompanied by Morton and
others of the Scottish nobility, with three hundred men, chiefly
Borderers. Albany had left for France, taking with him as hostages the
heirs or younger brothers of the principal men in the country, whom he
had bound over to keep the peace during his absence, which he then did
not intend to prolong beyond five months.

There was now an excellent opportunity for beginning a new and better
life, had the queen been so minded; but events proved her to be in a
more querulous, treacherous, and discontented mood than ever. "Her
Grace considereth now, the honour of England, and the poverty and
wretchedness of Scotland," wrote Magnus to Wolsey, "which she did not
afore, but in her opinion esteemed Scotland equal with England,"* and
her complaints to Henry were frequent and loud.

* June 19, 1517; Calig. B 2, 253; B.M.


She complained of her husband, of her poverty, of the bad faith of the
Scottish nation who still left her jointure unpaid, of not being
allowed free access to her son. She had, she said, been obliged to lay
in wed (pawn) the plate given to her by Henry, and was likely to be
driven to extreme want, as Wolsey would learn by her messenger. She
would have been still worse off, she caused her friends to write, had
not Magnus and Dacre drawn up a book at Berwick, the day before her
entry into Scotland, by which Angus, signing it, renounced all claim to
her "conjunct feoffment."*

* Dacre to Wolsey, Harbottle, 5th March, 1518; R.O.


But Margaret did not stop at complaints; Henry must begin the war
again. He may, she declares, reasonably cause Scottish ships to be
taken; for she has suffered long and forborne to do evil, although she
knew she would never get good from Scotland by fair means.

When by dint of constant urging to renewed contests the Borders had
become one vast battlefield in her quarrel, she wrote to the Marquis of
Dorset to beg him to spare the convent of Coldstream, whose abbess had
done her good service in times past.* The motive for this intercession
was no mere charitable one, the abbess being "one of the best spies for
England."

* Thomas, Marquis of Dorset, to Henry VIII.; Calig. B 3, 255.


And now, for the first time, Margaret ventures to express the wish that
has for long been forming itself in her mind. She has been much
troubled by Angus since her coming to Scotland, and is so more and more
daily. They have not met this half year, and--after some hovering of
the word on her lips, she pronounces it boldly--she will part with him,
if she may by God's law, and with honour to herself, for he loves her
not. Unlike Henry, when seeking a pretext to divorce his first wife,
Margaret was at no pains to disguise the motive which inspired her, and
a possibility of a flaw in the marriage is openly but a pretext for
getting rid of a husband of whom she was weary. We are at least spared
the nausea caused by Henry's conscientious scruples. She first puts
forward frankly her wish to be free from Angus, and then her
determination to divorce him if she may lawfully. But it was the only
piece of honesty in the whole business, for the suit itself was one
long, dreary series of misrepresentation and falsehood, without which
her cause could by no possibility have been gained.

The usual plea of pre-contracts was brought forward, but as these were
of too flimsy a nature to bear investigation, Margaret declared that
the late King of Scots, her husband, was still living three years after
the battle of Flodden, and that consequently he was alive when she was
married to the Earl of Angus.* As the king's body had never been found,
this assertion could not be disproved, though there was no reasonable
doubt as to James having fallen on that calamitous day.

* Magnus to Wolsey; State Papers, vol. iv., p. 385; R.O.


However, in spite of her bold swearing, Margaret was not so certain of
success, but that she was anxious for Henry's support, and she not only
entreated her brother to befriend her, but promised him that she would
consult only his wishes in taking another husband, and that this time
she would not part from him.* If she thought that a fellow-feeling
would make him wondrous kind in this matter, she was disappointed. It
was no part of Henry's policy that his sister should put Angus away,
for although she had not consulted him in the choice of her second
husband, Henry was very well satisfied with him. He could to a certain
extent control him, and at all events, while married to him the queen
could not contribute by any foreign alliance to the power and greatness
of Scotland.

* Calig. B 1, 232; B.M.


But Angus was making himself obnoxious to his wife beyond her very
limited capacity for endurance. Not only had he proved a faithless
husband, but what was infinitely worse to her mind, he refused to give
up the income of her Ettrick Forest estate, which she had made over to
him in the days when his handsome face and figure had first struck her
fancy, and when she thought nothing too costly to lavish upon him. She
had made him great, to her own and the country's misfortune, and it was
a difficult matter to make him small again; but all Scotland felt the
evil effects of his power, of his ascendancy over the young king, and
of the feuds which resulted therefrom. So great was the scourge felt to
be, that the Council appealed to Margaret to recall the Regent Albany,
that he might restore order.

Margaret was aware that Albany's return was the thing of all others
that Henry wished to avoid, but it suited her for the nonce to act the
part of a good Scotswoman, and she wrote an imploring letter to the
duke, begging him to come back and take pity on his unhappy country.*
Notwithstanding this, her complaints to Henry through Lord Dacre of her
bad treatment, and her supplications to be allowed to return to
England, did not cease. She had "liever be dead than live among the
Scots," and she entreats that no peace may be renewed, unless "some
good may be taken," that she may live at ease.**

* Calig. B 1, 232.

** Ibid. B 2, 195.


Wolsey was not sparing in his remarks on the queen's double-dealing,
the facts of which had all been disclosed to him by spies. He has, he
says, represented to the king her brother "the folly of Queen Margaret
in leaning to her enemies, and departing from her husband,"
notwithstanding what Dacre has already written to her. Dacre, by the
king's desire, is to tell her that if she persists in her dishonourable
course she can expect no favour.*

* Ibid. B 3, 106


Meanwhile the Earl of Surrey had been dispatched with an army to the
Borders, and threatened to invade Scotland, unless the Duke of Albany
were abandoned, and Margaret reinstated as regent. On the 16th
September 1523, he wrote two letters to the queen, one intended for her
eyes alone, the other to be shown to her son's Council. In the first he
says that the King of England would approve of her son's "coming
forth," and shaking off all tutelage but his mother's, for Surrey is
about to waste Scotland, and the young king's plea for emancipating
himself should be that he cannot suffer his realm to be laid waste.
Margaret is to summon the lords to take up arms in her son's defence,
and she will then be in a position to command Surrey to retire. She
will thus form a party for her son, and be enabled to send Albany and
his Frenchmen back to France. Then Surrey will turn his arms against
her enemies.

If Margaret keeps her promise, money will be forthcoming. In the event
of her causing James V, to "come forth" to Edinburgh, he has no doubt
that if the king will command his subjects on their allegiance to take
his part, the most of them will do so, especially the Commons, who must
be roused to drive the French to Dunbar. The Earl of Surrey will be
ready to give assistance.*

* Calig. B 4, 196.


The second letter was to the same effect, though more cautiously
worded. The King of England would be glad to hear of his nephew's
prosperous estate, but would certainly be dissatisfied that his nobles
suffered their monarch and themselves to be kept in subjection by
Albany. Surrey was ready to help with men and money all who would come
forward to protect their natural sovereign; but peace could never be
between the two realms, if the Scots did not give up the duke. As for
Margaret's hope that Henry would be a better friend to Scotland on her
account, Surrey had been ordered to desist from doing any more hurt at
her request. He had now waited along time, he wrote, hoping that the
Scottish lords would have shown themselves more natural loving subjects
than they now appeared, seeing that the day appointed for the Duke of
Albany's arrival had passed, and that their king was in no greater
safety than he was before. All the world would see that the fault was
not Henry's, but that of the Scots, who refused to put HIM out of the
realm who meant to destroy the king and usurp the crown. Henry would
never refrain from making war upon Scotland until they forsook. Albany,
and sued to him for peace. On their doing this, Surrey had full
authority to treat with them, and to assist them with money and troops.*

* State Papers, iv. 21--"Copy of my letter to be showed to the lords of
Scotland; in Surrey's hand"; R.O.


This advice produced no effect whatever on the Scottish lords, whose
loyalty to the regent remained unshaken. But Margaret did not consider
herself hampered by any pledges given to Albany, and two days after the
receipt of the letters, she urged Surrey to come to Edinburgh, or
somewhere near it, at once, declaring that the lords would certainly do
as she desired. As for the threatened laying waste, however, "they
laughed at injuries done only to the poor people." A thousand men with
artillery would have Edinburgh at their mercy if they came suddenly.
Surrey must go at it at once, or let it be. Failing this, she desired
leave to come to England with her true servants, adding, "for I will
come away and I should steal out of it."*

* Ibid. 26.


The truth was, that, far from being certain that the lords would agree
to any part of the scheme, Margaret knew well that she had but a
handful of friends in Scotland, and that her sole hope of regaining the
regency lay in Henry's power of coercion. Trusting that Surrey would
really march on Edinburgh, she did all she could to persuade the
Council to allow the young king to be brought to that place, and to
appoint new guardians, friendly to her interests. In both these
endeavours she failed, and James remained at Stirling.

"The lords are all fallen away from the queen, and adhere to the
governor," wrote the Abbess of Coldstream to Sir John Bulmer, and
Surrey passed on the information to Wolsey, telling him that Margaret
had no credit with the Scotch, and that they looked hourly for Albany's
arrival.

As for Lord Surrey, even if he had been willing to besiege Edinburgh,
he would have been frustrated by the want of sufficient means of
transport for his victuals. Had he not caused his soldiers to carry
their food in wallets, and their drink in bottles, it would not have
been possible for him to have reached the North, and a raid into the
enemy's country necessitated a far ampler stock of provisions than
could be carried in this way. The queen's desire that he should take
Edinburgh, arose, he thought, from her anxiety to provide herself with
a way of escape from her difficulties.*

* Surrey to Wolsey, Berwick, 21st Sept. 1523; R.O.


In England it was commonly believed that the Scottish lords were in so
great a fear of Albany, who was hourly expected to arrive, that they
would break their covenant with him even though they had each given him
four of the best of their sons as hostages. But Surrey declared
vehemently that although they might deceive Margaret, they should not
deceive him.

The suspense was ended at last, and Margaret wrote to inform him of the
regent's arrival. Surrey replied at once, desiring to know further what
number of horse and foot soldiers had come with him, and what
countrymen they were. He could give her no advice about coming away,
but would meet her in any given part of the Marches, and at whatever
time she pleased. Margaret in return was to let him know when the Duke
of Albany intended to invade England. In conclusion, hoping to prevent
any rapprochement between her and the regent, he warned her that Albany
would most certainly be king if the king were not well guarded, "for
the Frenchmen can empoison one, and yet he shall not die for a year
after."*

* Surrey's Letterbook; Tanner MS. 90, f. 47; Bodleian Library.


The slippery nature of Margaret's friendship was well known to Surrey,
and he kept up the fiction of Albany's nefarious intentions, in the
hope of making her faithful to English interests. Unluckily for his
schemes, he did not sufficiently study the springs of her actions,
which would have taught him to be more lavish with his bribes. The end
of her next letter ought to have opened his eyes to the necessity of
striking a bargain with her if he would hope to draw her into the
English net. After telling him that the duke has held a council at
Glasgow, and that he means to march into England in a fortnight, she
goes on to warn him that Scotland was never before made so strong, and
says that it is still a secret whether Albany intends to attack the
east or west Border, but she thinks both. She gives him a detailed
account of the numbers and condition of his soldiers, and estimates his
French contingent at 6000 men, adding that German reinforcements are
expected by the first fair wind. They trust to win Berwick, and if they
succeed, she and her son are undone. Then she begs to know how she is
to get away, and have some money. If Henry will not help her, she must
perforce ask help of Albany; and she declares significantly, "and he
will cause me to do as he will, or else he will give me nothing." He
has not yet come to her, but he writes "very good writings of his own
hand, and as many fair words as can be devised," to which however she
professes to give no credence.*

*Calig. B 6, 379; State Papers, iv. 40.


Surrey was of the opinion that Margaret should remain in Scotland, as
her coming to England would cause embarrassment and expense. Two
thousand marks would hardly satisfy her in England, whereas she would
be content with three or four hundred pounds a year in Scotland, to say
nothing of the loss Henry would incur if she came away, in being
deprived of the information she sent.

But it was just this haggling over bribes that prevented Margaret from
being altogether on Henry's side, and threw her into the arms of the
more generous Albany whenever there was the least hope of gain. Thus, a
month later, after the somewhat hasty retreat from Wark, she told
Surrey that she had been obliged to take what money the duke would give
her; that she would do her best to keep her son, but that she could not
displease Albany without Henry's support. She implored Surrey to plead
with the king for her, and in return for his help she would inform him
of all she knew; but he must keep it secret.*

* Calig. B 1, 281.


At the same time, she gave the duke to understand that she had incurred
her brother's displeasure for his sake,* and the same legend was
repeated to the lords of the Council. Complaining to them of the bad
treatment she had received in Scotland, she begged them to bear in mind
the loyalty she had always shown to her son, to the lord governor, and
to the realm, incurring for the last three or four years her brother's
displeasure, for Albany's sake, at whose desire she was always ready to
write the best she could.** Immediately upon this remarkable statement
came Henry's answer to her last appeal, in the guise of one hundred
marks for information received, together with the refusal of the truce
which Albany had repeatedly solicited.*** The smallness of the sum
prompted Margaret to write a diplomatic letter to the Earl of Surrey,
in which she declared that she had promised before the lords to be a
good Scotswoman, and to agree to whatever was for the good of her son,
with whom she was resolved to bide as long as she might, although the
lords were bent on separating them. They cannot, they say, help her to
her "conjunct feoffment" while her brother makes war on them, and she
knows not where any other help may be got. If she is to live with her
son, Henry must contribute to her support, as he has done to a certain
extent already. She will do as he commands her, and have as few
servants as possible. She had asked the governor and lords in Council
why she was "holden suspect," and not allowed to be with her son; and
the answer she received was that she was Henry's sister, and would
perhaps take the king into England, and they knew well her brother
would do more for her than any other. She had answered that her deeds
had shown otherwise, and that she could prove the malice of such an
accusation! THUS HENRY WOULD SEE HOW SHE SUFFERED FOR HIS SAKE.****

* Ibid. 159.

** Ibid. B 2, 268.

*** State Papers, iv. 60, 26th Nov. 1523; R.O.

**** Queen Margaret to the Earl of Surrey, Dec. 1523; R.O.


The next scene in the comedy is Margaret's anger on hearing that Albany
is treating with Henry for peace, without her intervention. "It is
hard," she complains, "to be out with the governor here, and not to
know what the king will do for me!" If she had flattered Albany, she
asserts, she might have had "great profits," but she will not take them
till she knows Henry's mind. She has not spoken with Albany since
Surrey left, and would not do so as long as he remained in Scotland, so
discontented were they with each other.* Upon this follows an
astounding revelation. Surrey had received a dispatch from the queen
containing another document, the seals of which had been broken and
closed again. It was a copy of an agreement between Margaret and the
Duke of Albany, but the manner in which it came to be enclosed in her
letter never transpired, though it was thought that the packet had been
opened by a spy, and the paper inserted, in order to ruin her prospects
with her brother.

* Calig. B 1, 209, 21st April 1524.


The enclosed document ran thus:--

The queen promises that during the minority of her son, she will never
suffer anything contrary to the duke's authority, and will inform him
of it, and hinder as much as she can any wrong intended against him;
she will not consent to a truce or peace with England without the
comprehension of her son's allies; she will assist to keep him
securely, according to the decree of the last Parliament; she will do
all she can to hinder any practice against him of which she may hear,
and will inform the governor of it if he be in the country, and if not,
those who have charge of the king; she will not consent to anything
contrary to the alliance with France, or to the treaty of Rouen, and
will further a marriage between her son and one of the daughters of the
King of France. The governor promises to do the like, and to obtain for
her an honourable reception by the King of France, if she incurs the
enmity of her brother, and is forced to quit the country in consequence
of the assistance he may give to Angus, or other evil-disposed persons
who may interfere with her goods and conjunct feoffment; he will if she
requests, send some of his servants with her, and will maintain her
against everyone except the king her son. Both parties swear to keep
these promises upon the Holy Gospels.*

* Add. MS. 24, 965, ff. 231 and 234; B.M.


Wolsey, upon receipt of this information, at once addressed
instructions to Dacre, charging him to find out whether such an
agreement had really been made, and if so, how the copy of it had found
its way into the queen's letter.

Dacre therefore wrote to tell her of the discovery, and recapitulating
the contents of the enclosed document, added that the king desired to
know whether she had consented to it of her own free will, why it was
done, whether she herself sent the copy, or if not who did send it, and
with what intent.

Margaret replied by an indignant but weak denial. The instrument in
question was one, she averred, which the duke had DESIRED her to
execute, but which she had declined at all costs to meddle with.

This explanation was too improbable for Wolsey to accept, the whole
course of Margaret's actions tending to show that had Albany tried and
failed to draw her into such a compact, she would unhesitatingly have
disclosed the negotiation in order to make capital out of her refusal.
The opportunity for demanding large sums as a reward for her fidelity
to Henry's interests would have proved irresistible; while as a matter
of fact the transaction had never been so much as hinted at in any of
her letters. Vague allusions, to the effect that Albany was continually
outbidding Henry, had been her refrain for years; but whereas she sent
minute and circumstantial details of every other secret likely to
prejudice the country and the regent, she had been silent as to any
definite overtures such as those contained in the document referred to.

The alternative was to believe that, while pretending to be false, for
once she was true to Scotland; and yet she stands so deeply "rooted in
dishonour," that her acquittal puts but little to her credit. Her only
resource, when Dacre persisted in his accusation, was a feeble
complaint of the bad treatment she was receiving at her brother's
hands, pleading that he neither regarded herself nor her writing; that
she had not failed, and did not mean to fail, but that if others had
been in her place they would have acted very differently.*

* Add. MS. 24, 965, f. 223, 19th May 1524; B.M.


To this Dacre replied ruthlessly, that it was well known both in
Scotland and in England, not only that she had assented to the bond
found in her letter, but that it had passed her sign manual and seal,
in return for which, the Duke of Albany had given her the wardship and
marriage of the young Earl of Huntly and of others, together with other
gifts and rewards---a proceeding which, declared Dacre, was a great
dishonour to her brother, and would perhaps after all avail her but
little. He marvelled also greatly at her pretended ignorance of the
negotiations pending between Albany and himself, because in his last
letter he had informed her of all the proceedings.*

* Ibid. 965, f. 244, 27th May 1524.


For some time, Margaret continued to deny feebly having formally allied
herself with the regent, murmuring at Dacre's "sharpness" towards her,
notwithstanding which Dacre continued to bring fresh proofs of her
duplicity before her, till Henry at last ordered him to let the matter
drop, whereupon she was willing to do the same.*

* Add. MS. 24, 965, f. 253; B.M.


Having failed in the past to secure Margaret's undivided favour, Henry
now took a more persuasive line, and sought to convince his sister how
much good might in future accrue to her if she would but "go the
fruitful way." The unfortunate Angus, who had taken refuge in England,
was now sent back, in the hope that a possible reconciliation with her
husband might detach her from Albany. But this was far from succeeding.
Margaret could with difficulty be induced to receive him, and all the
money that Henry sent to her went to strengthen the hands of her
husband's enemies, so that Angus was obliged to entreat that no further
supplies might be provided. Margaret then veered round, and said that
Albany had sent to her with great offers if she would join his party,
adding that perhaps the duke would marry her after getting her
divorced. How this could be possible, considering that Albany had a
wife already, might puzzle a mind more fettered by the logic of facts
than was the queen's.

That she was seriously anxious to be agreeable to the duke is seen by
the instructions which she delivered to John Cantely, who was to tell
the regent of her goodwill towards him and the kingdom of France. And
lest he should interpret unfavourably the circumstance of her having
sent ambassadors to England, she assured him that she would do nothing
without including France. Finally, she wished to know his intentions
towards her and what he would give her. In the event of her taking his
part against England, which she will certainly do if Henry continues to
help Angus, Albany must secure for her the protection of the French
king. If this king desires to have her and her son on his side, he must
support them.

But Albany must keep the matter secret, and not allow her letters to be
sent into England, as has been done formerly, and she will take his
part against everyone except her son.*

* Double de la credence de la Royne et memoire de Mr. John Cantely; R.O.


This was written on the 22nd February 1525, but on the 31st March
following, Margaret, in a stormy interview with Angus, angrily denied
having negotiated with Albany at all. She swore that she had always
sought to please Henry, and complained of his letters being "sore and
sharp." She had taken a great matter on hand at his request, and had
had much trouble with the duke for his sake, yet now that she had
plainly told the regent that she followed Henry's pleasure, Henry would
have no more to do with her. If he will not be kind to her, she hopes
at least that he will not cause Angus to trouble her in her living. She
has a plea against Angus before the Pope, and he cannot interfere with
her by law.*

* Calig. B 7, 3.


It was clearly to Henry's interest to persuade Margaret to take her
husband back, for Angus belonged with the whole Douglas family to
Albany's bitterest enemies. The reconciliation between him and the
regent had been but a short interlude brought about solely from
self-interest on the part of Angus, and followed by a deep and lasting
feud. Added to this claim on Henry's friendship was the fact that he
possessed a powerful influence over the young King James. But with the
page of Henry's own domestic history open before us, it is not possible
to repress a smile at the arguments against her divorce which Henry put
before Margaret, at the very moment when he was trying to force the
Pope's hand, in order to obtain from him a sentence against his own
marriage. The following substance of a letter, written it is true by
Wolsey, but dictated by his master, applies in every detail as well to
Henry's own case as to Margaret's. If we change the pronoun, substitute
London for Rome, king for queen, Katharine for Angus, all that he
causes Wolsey to say becomes as applicable to himself as to his sister.

After desiring her to accept favourably Henry's message, which, he
says, much concerns the wealth of her son and her own repute, the
cardinal urges her brother's hope that the "undeceivable spirit of God,
which moved him to send to her, will effectually work." Amid the cares
of his government he has never forgotten her, and he hopes she will
turn to God's word, "the vyvely doctrine of Jesus Christ, the only
ground of salvation" (1 Cor. 3). He reminds her of the divine ordinance
of inseparable matrimony, first instituted in Paradise, and hopes her
Grace will perceive how she was seduced by flatterers to an unlawful
divorce from "the right noble Earl of Angus," etc., upon untrue and
insufficient grounds. Furthermore, "the shameless sentence sent from
Rome" plainly showed how unlawfully it was handled, judgment being
given against a party neither present in person nor by proxy. He urges
her further, for the weal of her soul, and to avoid the inevitable
damnation threatened against "advoutrers," to reconcile herself with
Angus as her true husband, or out of mere natural affection for her
daughter, whose excellent beauty and pleasant behaviour, nothing less
godly than goodly, furnished with virtuous and womanly demeanour,
should soften her heart. That she should be reputed baseborn cannot be
avoided, except the queen will relinquish the "advoutrous" company with
him that is not, nor may not be, of right her husband.*

* Calig. B 6, 194.


The individual here mentioned was Harry Stuart, with whom Margaret had
contracted a secret marriage, having by dint of perjury and a tissue of
lies, obtained a declaration of invalidity against her union with
Angus. She does not appear to have been in the least affected by
Henry's hypocritical reasoning, but the manner in which her son
received the news of her third marriage caused her some inconvenience.
In his displeasure, James sent Lord Erskine to besiege his mother and
her new husband in Stirling Castle; but what promised to be a tragedy
had a somewhat ridiculous end, for Margaret, in terror of what might
follow, at once gave up her husband, who after a short imprisonment was
allowed to escape. He promptly rejoined the queen, and James
subsequently forgave him, and created him Lord Methven.

But not even when her son had come to his own did Margaret cease to
plot and intrigue. Henry's suspicious character imperatively demanded
that all that was going on in Scotland should be known without delay at
the English court, and his sister was the only possible agent for the
purpose. It does not appear that her treachery, now doubly odious, ever
cost her the least qualm. The climax was, however, reached, when after
persuading James to confide to her his private instructions to the
Scottish ambassador residing in London, she contrived that the
information thus obtained should be in Henry's hands at the same moment
that it reached its legitimate destination.

Fortunately for the affairs of Scotland, the treasonable correspondence
was discovered; and Margaret narrowly escaped imprisonment. The
immediate result was to put an end to the more friendly intercourse
that had sprung up between the two countries, and to prevent a meeting
between the two sovereigns, in process of negotiation.

At this interview, which was to have taken place at York, Henry hoped
to convert his nephew to his own views regarding the Pope; and in order
to pave the way to, a good understanding between them, he sent Barlow
and Holcroft to Scotland with a lengthy document containing, with much
fulsome flattery of James, all Henry's choice vocabulary of epithets
hurled against the "Bishop of Rome."*

* Hamilton Papers--Instructions to Barlow and Holcroft, 3rd Oct. 1535,
fol. 27.


Margaret, ignorant that her son had discovered her treachery, continued
to urge him to proceed to York; but her eagerness only roused his
suspicions that worse treason lay behind.

"The Queen, your Grace's sister," wrote Lord William Howard to Henry,
"because she hath so earnestly solicited in the cause of meeting, is in
high displeasure with the King, her son, he bearing her in hand that
she received gifts of your Highness to betray him, with many other
unkind and suspicious words."*

*State Papers, iv. 46; R.O.


Enough has been already seen of Margaret's methods to make it quite
clear what her next step would be. Out of favour with James, she of
course threw the whole brunt of her misfortune on Henry, for whose sake
she had incurred so much danger and expense, having lived for the last
six months at court for the sole purpose of advancing his affairs.* But
Henry was beginning to weary of his sister's complaints and appeals for
money. Besides, James would in future guard his secrets better, and
Margaret almost cease to be useful as a spy. So she must not expect him
to disburse notable sums, merely because she is his sister, and must
henceforth learn to be content with the entirely sufficient provision
made for her on her marriage with the King of Scots.**

* Add. MS. 32, 616, f. 87; B.M.

** State Papers, v. 56; R.O.


This was all the consolation he could afford her for some time to come,
for besides his other reasons for disregarding the letters which she,
nothing daunted by his silence, continued to send him, Henry was too
much occupied with his own concerns to bestow much thought on a sister
whose power of helping him was now small. It was the moment of Anne
Boleyn's fall, and he was engrossed with the list of crimes of which he
was about to accuse the unhappy woman.

On the subject of Margaret's various marriages, her brother had ever
failed to manifest that sympathy which a similarity of tastes would
seem to justify. He had assumed the tone of a moralist on her
separation from Angus, and had treated Lord Methven in his letters with
scant respect, and when in the course of time she began to be weary of
her new spouse, and to complain of him with increasing bitterness, it
was long before Henry could be roused to express any interest in the
subject. At last, however, he found a convenient season for attending
to her. She had written to inform him that whereas she did Lord Meffen
(sic) the honour to take him as her husband, he had spent her lands and
profits upon his own kin, and had brought her into debt, to the sum of
8000 marks Scots, and would give her no account of it. She trusted the
king her son would treat her to his and her own honour; but if not, she
had no refuge but in Henry, and she begged him not to suffer her to be
wronged.

To this, Henry deigned to reply that he should be sorry if his good
brother and nephew treated her otherwise than a son should treat his
mother. As it appeared from certain evidence, she was well-handled, and
had grown to much wealth and quiet; but according to other reports,
quite the contrary, so that he was in doubt which to believe. "Also,"
he continues, "having heard at other times from you of your
evil-treatment by your son and Lord Muffyn (sic), and as we are sending
the bearer into those parts, on our business, we desire you to show him
the points wherein you note yourself evil-handled, and whether you
desire us to treat of them with your son, or only generally to
recommend your condition." *

* State Papers, v. 63, 65.


Margaret had remained faithful to Lord Methven for about ten years, and
it was not till 1537 that she thought of formally applying for a
divorce, her chief plea being that be wasted her money, although she
said she had "forty famous proofs" against him.*

* Hamilton Papers, 13th Oct. 1537, f. 105.


James was furious, and ordered that the divorce, whether obtained at
the cost of more false oaths, or whether Margaret's so-called third
husband really had a wife living when the union was contracted, should
not be proclaimed in Scotland.

This constituted Margaret's famous grievance against James, his
objection to her divorce being, his mother declared, the fear lest she
should pass into England and remarry the Earl of Angus. "And this Harry
Stuart, Lord of Methven, causes him to believe this of ME!" she
exclaimed contemptuously.* One plea for getting rid of the now despised
Harry Stuart is too amusing to be omitted. James was in France, whither
he had gone to bring home his bride, the young and beautiful Magdalene,
daughter of the French king, and Margaret thought to induce Henry to
interest himself in her divorce through his jealousy of the French.

* State Papers, v. 119.


After begging him to send a special messenger to the king her son, to
know his "utter mind," she says: "For now, dearest brother, your Grace
I trust will consider that now the queen his wife is to come into this
realm soon after Easter, as he hath sent word here, to make ready for
the same, and that being, it will be great dishonour to him that I, his
mother, having a just cause to part, can nought get a final end; and I
trust your Grace will consider I may do your Grace and my son more
honour to be without him (Lord Methven) than to have him, considering
that he is but a sober man, and if the Queen that is to come, see me
not entreated as I should be, she will think it an evil example." *

* Hamilton Papers, f. 109.


But all her efforts were fruitless; Henry could not be persuaded to
take up her quarrel, and James was obdurate. His mother, however, then
in her forty-ninth year, dispensed with legal formality altogether, and
allied herself to a certain John Stuart, who, according to some, is
identical with the adventurous Earl of Arran, so notorious in the reign
of James VI.

A few more miserable years of petty intrigues, it being no longer in
her power to carry on important ones, and Margaret came to the close of
her faithless, undignified life. But before the end, a ray of sorrow
for her mis-spent days brightened the hitherto unrelieved gloom of her
career. Henry's messenger, sent after her death to gather up the
details of her last moments, and above all, to find out whether she had
made a will, wrote to the king as follows:--

"When she did perceive that death did approach, she did desire the
friars that was her confessors, that they should sit on their knees
before the King, and to beseech him that he would be good and gracious
unto the Earl of Angwische, and did extremely lament and ask God mercy
that she had offended unto the said Earl as she had."

The friars were also to plead with her son for the Lady Margaret
Douglas, the daughter whom she had so remorselessly abandoned, and to
beg him that she might have some of her mother's goods. And thus,
making what reparation she could, with penitent words on her lips,
Margaret Tudor passed away.



II. NOR WIFE NOR WIDOW

The history of the first two marriages of Henry VIII. is of such vital
importance, affecting as they did the whole course of religion in
England, from the first whisperings of the divorce down to the present
day, that it is not to be wondered at if the royal Bluebeard's
subsequent matrimonial alliances have been considered negligible
quantities. And yet, at least one of them was of extreme political, and
even religious, importance, and was fraught with so much mystery that
until the most recent investigations, the true inwardness of the matter
has been totally misapprehended. The story of Anne of Cleves' portrait,
and Henry's supposed disappointment when he saw the lady herself for
the first time, is authentic in so far as it was exactly what the king
chose to have circulated about his fourth marriage. But if it contained
half the truth, it was the other half that really mattered.

After the fall of Wolsey, Thomas Cromwell had by his astute policy
succeeded in bringing about a religious state of things in England that
approached very nearly to Lutheranism. Taking advantage of Henry's
pique and anger at the Pope's refusal to grant him a divorce from
Katharine of Arragon, Cromwell set about widening the breach between
England and Rome. After weakening the power of the bishops and lower
clergy, he was able to force the oath of supremacy upon the nation, and
having thus satisfied his master's pride and vanity, his next step was
by the dissolution of the monasteries to pander to Henry's greed, while
at the same time he filled his own pockets.

In pursuit of these ends he had covered the land with gibbets, and
caused the noblest heads in England to fall upon the block. He had
branded the king's own daughter with the stigma of infamy, and to
obtain her consent thereto had kept the axe suspended over her. He had
been able to accomplish all this because thus far he had taken Henry's
measure correctly, working upon his worst passions, and suggesting ever
fresh means of satisfying them. Then came a point at which his
interests and those of the king diverged.

Cromwell was deeply pledged to the Lutheran cause, and his plan was to
throw Henry into the arms of the Lutheran princes of Germany. He had
already flooded the country with foreign heretics, using them as his
tools to protestantise the Church in England.

Jane Seymour died in 1537, and Cromwell at once negotiated a marriage
between Henry and Anne, daughter of the Duke of Cleves, Henry
consenting for the reason that it behoved him to fortify himself by an
alliance that would enable him to make a stand against a possible
combination of forces between the Pope, the Emperor, and the French
King. But at the very moment when Cromwell, believing himself to be at
the point of realising all his desires, was pledging his master to
marry Anne of Cleves, a reaction had set in which he so completely
disregarded as to seem in utter ignorance of it.

Nothing annoyed Henry more than to be twitted with being a heretic, and
whenever Henry was annoyed a blow might be expected. The loathed
epithet was now very frequently used in reference to him by the emperor
and others, and he was bent on showing Europe that he could be a very
good Catholic without the Pope. It irritated him to think that Cromwell
had laid him open to retort in this contention by a formal alliance
with the Lutherans, who were undeniably heretics. It served his purpose
very well to play them off against the emperor and even Francis I., but
it was not his will to be bound irrevocably by any contract. When
Cromwell thought to put the finishing touch to his triumphant scheme,
he only effected his own doom. He boasted to the Lutherans that he
would soon bring England over to their forms of faith, and on this
promise the match between Henry and Anne was concluded; but he failed
to rouse the German princes to a contest with the emperor, which was
all that Henry, apart from his minister's policy, had aimed at from the
beginning. With Henry the whole scheme was tentative, and the proposed
marriage but a detail of that scheme. When it fell through, he desired
to turn his back upon Cleves and the rest of the German princes;
moreover, he had no further need of Cromwell himself, who was rather in
the way of his new plans, unless the minister could find a means to
disentangle the imbroglio he had created with regard to Anne.

Like a child with a new toy, Henry was now engrossed in the fun of
being Pope in his own dominions; and as Head of the Church of England
whom it behoved to reprobate heresy in every shape and form, he
conducted a trial against one John Nicholson, who, refusing to recant
his heretical opinions, was burned at Smithfield. After this he felt
confident of being as Catholic as the real Pope, and safe from
opprobrium. He proceeded to bring forward deliberations in Parliament
on the subject of religion, with the result that the famous Act of the
Six Articles was passed. This Act, nicknamed by the Lutherans "the whip
with six cords," brought in a reaction in favour of the old religion,
which lasted till Henry's death, but matters between England and Rome
remained as they were.

Meanwhile, the lady Anne of Cleves had made her unwelcome appearance.
One of the most curious and indeed incomprehensible facts concerning
Henry VIII., is the admiring awe and grovelling gratitude with which he
was adored by most of the women whom he had the privilege of
ill-treating. After the year 1527, when he first conceived the desire
of raising Anne Boleyn to the throne, and of divorcing Katharine,
except for the short period during which he was married to Jane
Seymour, there were always two rival claimants for his hand. Not only
was Katharine ever generously ready to forget past insults if he would
graciously extend his clemency towards her, and send Anne away, but
every other woman with whom he came in contact, addressed him in words
more suited to a divinity than to an earthly king. His daughter Mary,
after having been spurned as the most degraded and abject creature of
the realm, longed for nothing more ardently than "to attain the
fruition of his most desired presence."

Although the personal appearance of Anne of Cleves did not bear out the
exaggerated reports of the German agent Mont, who had told Henry that
her beauty exceeded that of the Duchess of Milan "as the sun outshines
the silver moon," she was found on her arrival in England to be "tall,
bright, and graceful," her liveliness making amends for any defect as
to regularity of feature. Comparing her claim to beauty with that of
the other wives of Henry VIII., it does not appear that she contrasted
unfavourably with any, not even with Katharine Howard, who was very
generally admired. The king himself observed to Cromwell that Anne was
"well and seemly, and had a queenly manner," but that he found it
difficult to converse with her as she knew no word of any language but
German.

He had first met her privately at Rochester, and had dined with her,
their public meeting taking place about half a mile from the foot of
Shooter's Hill, where she rested in a gorgeous pavilion prepared for
the occasion. Henry came marching through Greenwich Park with a
brilliant escort, and the bride and bridegroom met full merrily. The
king embraced the lady ceremoniously, and the chronicler Hall, some
time afterwards, in describing their entry into Greenwich, breaks out
into one of his eulogistic periods:

"O what a sight was this, to see so goodly a Prince and so noble a King
to ride with so fair a lady, of so goodly a stature, and so womanly a
countenance, and in especial of so good qualities. I think no creature
could see them but his heart rejoiced!"

Nevertheless, Henry's moody question, "What remedy?" which obviously
had its origin in no mere disappointment in the matter of Anne's beauty
or power to charm, was calculated to strike terror into Cromwell's
soul, the chancellor knowing full well that all this bravery was but an
appearance, and that his great scheme of Lutheranising England to the
greater glory of himself was irrevocably wrecked, and his own fate
sealed. The king went on to say that if it were not that the lady had
come so far, and for fear of making a ruffle in the world, and of
driving her brother into the emperor's arms and those of the French
king, he would not go through with the marriage ceremony.

As a forlorn hope of escape, the bride was asked to make a declaration
that she was free from all precontracts, which she did without the
least hesitation, and there was nothing to be done but for Henry "to
put his head into the yoke," and to make an insignificant political
alliance, which would thenceforth serve no political end. As a Catholic
king, Head of the Church and Defender of the Faith, there was no room
in his plans for a Lutheran queen. However, he no longer regarded the
marriage tie as a knot that could not be undone at a pinch. Cranmer
could be counted on to be pliable in that matter, and if Cromwell made
difficulties, a sword was hanging over him that could be made to fall
at any moment, and Henry knew that the death of the man who had been
the terror of England for ten years would be hailed with enthusiasm by
the whole nation. Henry's foreign policy had always been a
non-committal one, and Cromwell's daring intrigues had carried his
master further than he intended to go. As the chancellor could find no
means of getting him out of the mess, he lost his life, and Anne of
Cleves her barely assumed dignity.

The disgusting letters which Cromwell wrote from the Tower, in the hope
that his tardy playing into the king's hands would obtain him a pardon,
were of immense use to Henry in confusing the public mind as to the
real reason for his repudiation of Anne, for he was anxious in breaking
off from Protestant Germany not to turn the Duke of Cleves into an
enemy. The want of decency and the unchivalrous sacrifice of Anne's
honour and dignity are perhaps not surprising between such men as Henry
and Cromwell, but it is startling to find the lady's brother swallowing
the insult calmly. Nevertheless, Henry's diplomatic insight had
correctly gauged the coarsening effect of Luther's moral code on a mind
that could see less offence in a stain of this kind than in a frank
rupture of the marriage-treaty before Anne had been allowed to set foot
in England. There is this, however, to be said, that the possession of
the lady gave Henry a decided advantage over her brother.

A few weeks after the marriage, or what passed for such, Anne was sent
to Richmond on the pretext of being out of reach of the plague, but
there was no talk at that time of any plague, and if there had been,
Henry would certainly have gone away also, for no one feared the
epidemic more than he. On her departure, a commission was appointed
under the Great Seal to inquire into the validity of her marriage, and
in an incredibly short space of time it was declared null, by reason of
a pre-contract with the son of the Duke of Lorraine. Henry then endowed
his ex-queen with lands to the value of 4000 pounds annually, with a
house at Richmond, and another at Bletchingly.

Whatever she may have felt, Anne expressed herself willing to be
divorced--perhaps she was thankful to escape with her head--and desired
the Duke of Cleves' messenger "to commend her to her brother, and say
she was merry and well entreated." He reported of her that she said
this "with such alacrity and pleasant gesture, that he might well
testify that he found her not miscontented. After she had dined she
sent the King the ring delivered unto her at their pretended marriage,
desiring that it might be broken in pieces as a thing which she knew of
no force or value." Henry sent her many gifts and tokens "as his sister
and none otherwise," and told her that she was to be the first lady in
the realm next after the queen and the king's children. He exhorted her
to be "quiet and merry," and subscribed himself "your loving brother
and friend." After his fifth marriage she was designated as "the old
Queen, the King's sister."

The French ambassador, in a letter of the 6th August 1540, wrote:--

"The King being lately with a small party at Hampton Court, ten miles
hence, supped at Richmond with the Queen that was so merrily that some
thought he meant to reinstate her, but others think it was done to get
her consent to the dissolution of the marriage, and make her subscribe
what she had said thereupon, which is not only what they wanted, but
also what she thinks they expected. The latter opinion is the more
likely, as the King drew her apart, in company with the three first
councillors he had, who are not commonly called in to such confidence."

Marillac goes on to say that he thinks it would be great inconsistency
to take her back now, and that moreover she did not sup with him as she
did when she was queen, but at another table adjoining his, as other
ladies who are not of the blood do, when he eats in company.

On the 15th he wrote to the Duke de Montmorency:--

"As for her who is called Madame de Cleves, far from pretending to be
distressed, she is as joyous as ever, and wears new dresses every day,
which argues either prudent dissimulation or stupid forgetfulness of
what should so closely touch her heart. Be it as it may, it has thrown
the poor ambassador of Cleves into a fever, who sends every day to ask
if I have no news of his master."

Even if Anne's first feeling had been one of relief that a worse fate
had not befallen her, her gaiety was obviously forced, and no doubt the
lady did "protest too much," but she had been ordered to be "quiet and
merry," and if after such a mandate she had ventured to put on a
sorrowful countenance, or to express a vain regret, her quondam husband
would probably have been--such was his disposition--less flattered by
the compliment than irritated by the command disobeyed. And so she
prudently accepted her fate and "sate like patience on a monument
smiling at grief," as it afterwards transpired, and in her efforts to
please, imposed upon herself what must have been the most trying
ordeals.

Her marriage had taken place on the feast of the Epiphany, 1540, and in
July of the same year Henry was united to Katharine Howard,
grand-daughter of the Duke of Norfolk. This young woman's reputation
was already so notoriously bad, that it is impossible to believe that
the king could be in ignorance of the fact. Nevertheless, for the time
being, he was deeply in love, and his scruples and righteous anger were
wont to come--afterwards. Marillac describes the new queen "as rather
graceful than beautiful, and of short stature." He says:--

"The King is so amorous of her that he cannot treat her well enough,
and caresses her more than he did the others. She and all the Court
ladies dress in the French style, and her device is Non autre volonte
que la sienne. Madame de Cleves is as cheerful as ever, as her
brother's ambassador says."

But others besides Anne of Cleves had reason to mourn, and Melancthon
complained that atrocious crimes were reported from England, that the
divorce with the lady of Juliers was already made, and another married,
and that "good men of our opinion in religion are murdered."

On the 27th September, the papal nuncio wrote grimly to Cardinal
Farnese, that "SO FAR" the King of England was pleased with his new
wife, and the other, "sister of Cleeves has retired and 'LIVES.'"
Rumours, however, were persistently current that Henry intended to take
back Anne, until in November, Marillac informed his master that the new
queen had "completely acquired the King's grace," and that the other
was "no more thought of than if she were dead."

But Marillac had soon reason to see that in making this statement he
had somewhat exaggerated. The Princess Mary seems to have been well
informed of the loose character and behaviour of Katharine Howard, and
contrived to find pretexts for a long time for absenting herself from
court, so that the queen complained to Henry that his daughter did not
treat her with the respect she had shown to the two former queens.

But Anne of Cleves had no scruples about associating with Katharine,
and was perhaps keen to note every detail concerning her brilliant
rival, who had been more successful than herself in capturing the
king's roving fancy. She was probably as much in the dark as most
people, as to the politico-religious embarrassment she constituted.

The French ambassador gives an amusing description of her New Year's
visit to the court:--

"Sire, to omit nothing that may be written about this country, Madame
Anne, sister of the Duke of Cleves, formerly Queen of England, passed
the recent festivities at Richmond, four miles from Hampton Court, to
which place the King and also the Queen sent her, on the first day of
the year, rich presents of clothes, plate and jewels, valued at six or
seven thousand crowns. And on the second day she was summoned to appear
at Hampton Court, where she was very honourably conducted by several of
the nobility, and being arrived, the King received her very graciously,
as did also the Queen, with whom she remained nearly the whole
afternoon. They danced together, and seemed so happy that neither did
the new Queen appear to be jealous or afraid that the other had come to
raise the siege, as it was rumoured, nor did the said lady of Cleves
show any sign of discontent at seeing her rival in her place. Moreover,
Sire, if it please you to hear the end of this farce, that evening, and
the next, the two ladies supped at the King's table together, although
the lady of Cleves sat a little backward, in a corner, where the
Princess of England, Madame Mary, is wont to be; and the following day,
the said lady of Cleves returned with the same escort to Richmond,
where she is visited by all the personages of the court, which makes
people think she is about to be reinstated in her former position." *

* De Marillac, Correspondance Politique, p. 258.


Eustace Chapuys, the imperial ambassador, also wrote an account of this
strange visit. He says:--

"On the 3rd [January 1541], the lady Anne of Cleves sent the King a New
Year's present of two large horses, with violet velvet trappings, and
presented herself at Hampton Court, with her suite, accompanied only by
Lord William, the Duke of Norfolk's brother, who happened to meet her
on the road to this city. She was received by the Duchess of Suffolk,
the Countess of Hertford, and other ladies, who conducted her to her
lodgings and then to the Queen's apartments. She insisted on addressing
the Queen on her knees, for all the Queen could say, who showed her the
utmost kindness. The King then entered, and after a low bow to Lady
Anne, embraced and kissed her. She occupied a seat near the bottom of
the table at supper, but after the King had retired, the Queen and Lady
Anne danced together, and next day all three dined together. At this
time the King sent his Queen a present of a ring and two small dogs,
which she passed over to Lady Anne. That day Lady Anne returned to
Richmond."*

* Chapuys to the Emperor; Gairdner, Cal. 16, No. 436.


The public rumour of the likelihood of Anne's restoration arose
probably as much from the common talk of the queen's immoral conduct as
from the circumstance of Anne's appearance at court. The reports at
length reached Katharine's ears, and it was possibly her accusing
conscience that betrayed itself in her visible depression of spirits.

"Some days ago [wrote Chapuys to the Queen of Hungary on 6th May 1541],
this Queen being rather sad, the King wished to know the cause, and she
said it was owing to a rumour that he was going to take back Anne of
Cleves. The King told her that she was wrong to think such things, and
[that] even if he were in a position to marry, he had no mind to take
back Anne; which is very probable, as his love never returns for a
woman he has once abandoned. Yet many thought he would be reconciled to
her for fear of the King of France making war on him at the
solicitation of the Duke of Cleves and the King of Scotland."

This was the first intimation of the storm that was soon to burst When
it suited Henry to give ear to the scandals afloat about the queen, his
grief and indignation, or what it pleased him should pass for such,
knew no bounds.

The palace at Hampton Court where Katharine was imprisoned, was so
strictly guarded that none but certain officers could enter or leave
it. The Princess Mary, who had spent the last few months with her
stepmother, presenting a strange contrast to her surroundings, was now
sent to join Prince Edward, and her father announced that he was
heartbroken at the queen's immorality and perfidy. Anne was thought by
Chapuys to rejoice greatly at Katharine's fall, but her execution
caused little comment throughout the country. Either the nation was
indifferent or it had become accustomed to the disgrace of queen
consorts.

Marillac, writing to Francis I. on the 11th November, says:--

"The way taken is the same as with Queen Anne who was beheaded. She has
taken no kind of pastime, but kept in her chamber, whereas, before, she
did nothing but dance and rejoice; and now when the musicians come,
they are told that this is no more the time to dance . . . . As to whom
the King will take, everyone thinks it will be the lady he has left,
who has conducted herself wisely in her affliction, and is more
beautiful than she was, and more regretted and commiserated than Queen
Katharine (of Arragon) was in like case. Besides, the King shows no
inclination to any other lady, and will have some remorse of
conscience, and no man in England dare suggest one of such quality as
the lady in question, for fear, if she were repudiated of falling en
quelque gros inconvenient."

The imperial ambassador had, it is seen, estimated Henry's character
more correctly than Marillac did, for as to "remorse of conscience," we
do not find throughout the whole length of his life that the royal
miscreant ever made an attempt to expiate any one of his crimes, or to
make amends to a single individual for wrong done.

According to Marillac, the king was so shocked and grieved at
Katharine's behaviour, that he proposed never to take another wife; but
when it was suggested that in spite of her outrageous conduct the queen
might possibly escape the punishment of death, on account of her beauty
and her sweetness of disposition, the Duke of Norfolk said that she
must of necessity die, because the king could not marry again while she
lived.

Francis I. does not seem to have taken his envoy's account of Henry's
grief very seriously (he had known the King of England longer than
Marillac had), and replied with some apparent cheerfulness, that he was
sorry for his cousin's misfortune, and would soon send a gentleman to
condole with the king.

Chapuys, as usual, had with greater discernment, hit the more probable
mean.

"This King has wonderfully felt the case of the Queen, his wife, and
has certainly shown greater sorrow at her loss than at the fault, loss,
or divorce of his preceding wives. It is like the case of the woman who
cried more bitterly at the loss of her tenth husband than at the deaths
of all the others together, though they had all been good men; but it
was because she had never buried one of them before without being sure
of the next, and as yet it does not seem that he has formed any new
plan."

Katharine was beheaded on the 13th October 1542, on the same spot on
the Tower Green where Anne Boleyn had been executed. Her end, and that
of Lady Rochester who had encouraged her in her evil life, was
penitent, and even edifying. After the execution it was remarked that
the king was in better spirits, and during the last few days before
Lent there was much feasting at Court.

Chapuys describes the state of affairs thus:--

"Sunday was given up to the Lords of his Council, and Court; Monday to
the men of law; and Tuesday to the ladies, who all slept at the Court.
He himself in the morning did nothing but go from room to room to order
lodgings to be prepared for these ladies, and he made them great and
hearty cheer, without showing particular affection to any one. Indeed,
unless Parliament prays him to take another wife, he will not I think
be in a hurry to marry; besides, few if any ladies now at Court would
aspire to such an honour, for a law has just been passed, that should
any King henceforth wish to marry a subject, the lady will be bound on,
pain of death to declare if any charges of misconduct can be brought
against her, and all who know or suspect anything of the kind against
her, are bound to reveal it within twenty days, on pain of confiscation
of goods and imprisonment for life."

Perhaps it was this general indictment of the women of Henry's court,
most certainly the echo of public opinion, that had caused the people
to persist in the belief that Anne of Cleves would regain Katharine's
strangely coveted place. Where the reputation of a whole class was so
bad as to make the above kind of declaration impossible, virtue, such
as that attributed to the Lady Anne, was at a premium, and as it was
useless to think of a suitable foreign alliance in the state of Henry's
religious opinions, justice and necessity had alike seemed to point to
the reinstatement of the discarded queen. But Henry was exceedingly
annoyed at these repeated suggestions which, forsooth, had almost
appeared TO DICTATE TO HIM, and he determined to put a stop to the free
wagging of tongues on the subject of his matrimonial affairs.

After the fall of Katharine Howard, and before her execution, a State
Paper records that Jane Rattsay was "examined of her words to Elizabeth
Bassett, viz., 'What if God worketh this work to make the Lady Anne of
Cleves queen again?' She answered that it was an idle saying suggested
by Bassett's 'Praising the Lady Anne, and dispraising the Queen that
now is.' She declared that she never spoke at any other time of the
Lady Anne, and she thought the King's divorce from her good." Examined
as to her exclamation "What a man is the King! How many wives will he
have?" she answered that she said it "upon the sudden tidings declared
to her by Bassett, when she was sorry for the change and knew not so
much as she knows now."

But for all Anne's prudence, and the bold front the brave woman
presented to her misfortunes, she had been secretly hoping that when
the inevitable crash came, she would be restored to the rights which
she had only renounced, because she had no alternative. Henry, however,
made no sign, and in 1543 Katharine Parr appeared on the scene. The
first mention of the king's sixth wife in the public records is a
tailor's bill for numerous items of cotton, linen, buckram, etc., and
the making of Italian gowns, pleats, and sleeves, kirtles, French,
Dutch, and Venetian gowns, Venetian sleeves, French hoods, etc., of
various materials, the total amount of the bill being 8 pounds, 9s. 5d.
This bill was delivered "to my Lady Latymer," and was copied into the
book of Skutt the tailor.

Katharine Parr had been first married as a mere child to the old Lord
Borough of Gainsborough, and had been left a widow before she was
seventeen. She then married Lord Latimer, who died in 1543, and was
immediately sought in marriage by Sir Thomas Seymour, brother of the
king's third wife, who became Lord High Admiral in Edward's reign.
Katharine undoubtedly intended to become his wife, but as she
afterwards wrote, her "will was over-ruled by a higher power."

On the 20th June of the same year, Lady Latimer and her sister Mrs.
Herbert were at court "with my Lady Mary's Grace and my Lady
Elizabeth," and the next mention of her is in a licence of Thomas,
Archbishop of Canterbury, "authorised thereto by parliament to Henry
VIII. (who has deigned to marry the Lady Katharine, late wife of Lord
Latimer deceased) to have the marriage solemnised in any church,
chapel, or oratory, without the issue of banns." It took place on the
12th July following, in an upper oratory called the Queen's Privy
Closet, within the honour of Hampton Court, Gardiner, Bishop of
Winchester, officiating.

"Anne of Cleves [wrote Chapuys to Charles V.], would like to be in her
sherte [shroud] so to speak, with her mother, having especially taken
great grief and despair at the king's espousal of this last wife, who
is not nearly so beautiful as she, besides that there is no hope of
issue, seeing that she had none with her two former husbands."

Others, besides the poor, discarded Lady Anne were also in tribulation,
and a letter from one of the Lutherans in England to Henry Bullinger,
the reformer, reports that "the king has within these two months burnt
three godly men in one day. For in July he married the widow of a
nobleman named Latimer, and he is always wont to celebrate his nuptials
by some wickedness of this kind."

But Katharine herself was glad exceedingly, and told Lord Parr that "it
having pleased God to incline the king to take her as his wife, which
is the greatest joy and comfort that could happen to her, she informs
her brother of it as the person who has most cause to rejoice thereat,
and requires him to let her sometimes hear of his health, as friendly
as if she had not been called to this honour."

Wriothesley, in forwarding this letter from the queen, Lord Parr's
"gracious lady and kind sister," doubts not but that he will thank God,
and frame himself to be more and more an ornament to Her Majesty.

The marriage was in every way satisfactory. Katharine was twenty-six,
about one year younger than the Lady Mary, and was by universal fame
reported "a prudent, beautiful, and virtuous lady." The royal family
had reason to be grateful for her influence over the king, whom she
persuaded to restore both Mary and Elizabeth to their rank. To Edward
she was a second mother, and Henry seems to have looked upon her with
something akin to respect, appointing her regent when he crossed the
Channel to invade France in 1544.

She offended him, however, on one occasion, by venturing to express a
difference of opinion on a religious question, and it was said that
articles of heresy were drawn up against her. "A good hearing it is,"
exclaimed Henry, "when women become such clerks; and a thing much to my
comfort to come in mine old days to be taught by my wife! Her prudence
and tact saved her life, if it was ever seriously in danger."

Henry's sordid tragedy was played out on the 28th January 1547, when
the tyrant breathed his last, and left his two wives and two daughters
to unravel the skein which he had so persistently entangled for them.
Katharine Parr took her fate immediately into her own hands, and
thirty-five days after Henry's death, secretly married her former
admirer, Sir Thomas, now Lord Seymour, who was described by Hayward as
"fierce in courage, courtly in fashion, in personage stately, in voice
magnificent, but somewhat empty in matter." The union was not a happy
one, owing mainly to Seymour's intrigues with the Princess Elizabeth, a
circumstance that was thought to have shortened Katharine's life. The
ci-devant queen died at Sudeley Castle, after having given birth to a
daughter, in August 1548, aged thirty-six.

After the one tragic episode in her life, the course of Anne of Cleves
ran smoothly enough. Mary befriended her always, and made her quondam
stepmother a prominent figure at her coronation. She frequently paid
her visits, and treated her with all the respect imaginable. Anne never
left England after her ill-starred arrival, ending her days peacefully
in 1557.



III. A NOTABLE ENGLISHMAN

While Edward's Council thought that they had effectually closed every
issue through which news of the king's death might transpire, before
their seditious plans were completed, the Princess Mary was already on
her way into Norfolk, calling all loyal men and true to rally round her
standard. Two Norfolk gentlemen were mainly instrumental in placing her
on the throne. These were Sir Henry Jerningham and the subject of this
memoir, Sir Henry Bedingfeld of Oxburgh, who came in to her assistance
at Framlingham, with 140 well-armed men.

Bedingfeld proclaimed the queen at Norwich, and was afterwards rewarded
for his loyalty with an annual pension of 100 pounds out of the
forfeited estates of Sir Thomas Wyatt. Mary made him a Privy Councillor
and Knight Marshal of her army, and subsequently Lieutenant of the
Tower of London; and Captain of the Yeomen of the Guard, vice Sir Henry
Jerningham. She appointed him custodian of Elizabeth, when that
princess was confined in the Tower and at Woodstock, on suspicion of
being concerned in Wyatt's rebellion; and so little did Elizabeth
resent his severity during the time of her imprisonment, that after her
accession, she addressed him as her "trusty and well-beloved," employed
him in her service, and granted to him the manor of Caldecot in
Norfolk, which still forms part of the Oxburgh estate at the present
day.

He was undoubtedly one of the foremost Englishmen of his day, respected
by two sovereigns, and occupying prominent and honourable positions,
his loyalty being unimpeachable; yet Foxe, the martyrologist, with his
wonted dishonesty, has without the slightest foundation, and so
effectually, blackened his fame, that almost every subsequent writer on
this period has reproduced the calumnies set forth with malice prepense
in the Acts and Monuments.

Strype was the first unquestioning copyist of Foxe; Burnet was the
second; and Sir Reginald Hennell is the most recent.*

* In his volume "The History of the King's Bodyguard of the Yeomen of
the Guard."


Tennyson, in his dramatic poem Queen Mary, also went to Foxe for his
historical data, with the result that, while discarding the more
malicious interpretation of Bedingfeld's character, he has,
nevertheless, passed on to posterity a coarse and grotesque caricature
as though it were a portrait.

A fire broke out at Woodstock in May 1554, and Tennyson choosing to
suppose that Elizabeth suspected foul play, invented the following
absurd dialogue:--

LADY.
I woke Sir Henry--and he's true to you-
I read his honest horror in his eyes.

ELIZABETH.
Or true to you?

LADY.
Sir Henry Bedingfeld!
I will have no man true to me, your Grace,
But one that pares his nails; to me? the clown!
For like his cloak, his manners want the nap
And gloss of court; but of this fire he says,
Nay swears, it was no wicked wilfulness,
Only a natural chance.

ELIZABETH.
A chance-perchance
One of those wicked wilfuls that men make,
Nor shame to call it nature.

At the end of a long speech Elizabeth cries

God save the Queen. My jailor--

BEDINGFELD.
One, whose bolts,
That jail you from free life, bar you from death.
There haunt some Papist ruffians hereabout
Would murder you.

ELIZABETH.
I thank you heartily, sir,
But I am royal, tho' your prisoner,
And God hath blest or cursed me with a nose--
Your boots are from the horses.

This libel did not, however, pass unchallenged, and the father of the
present baronet wrote to the Poet Laureate the following protest:--

"Sir,--As a great admirer of your genius, I eagerly read your drama
Queen Mary, but was so surprised and pained at the ignoble part which
is allotted to Sir Henry Bedingfeld, that I cannot refrain from
addressing you on the subject. I feel justified in doing so, as I am
the direct descendant of Sir Henry, and date from the house which was
his home.

"The millions who will read Mary Tudor, or witness the play on the
stage, will carry away the impression that my ancestor was a vulgar
yeoman, in some way connected with the stables, whereas he was a man of
ancient lineage, a trusted friend and servant of the queen, who
confided to him in time of danger the Lieutenancy of the Tower, and the
custody of the Princess Elizabeth. This princess so respected Sir
Henry, that although she complained of his severity during her
captivity, she visited him at Oxburgh after her accession to the
throne, and treated him with the greatest consideration. Numerous
documents in my possession, including letters from the Sovereign, from
the Privy Council, arid from the most eminent men of the time, would
prove, were such proof required, the high position held by Sir Henry.

"I trust, therefore, to your feeling of justice that you will, if
possible, either strike out Sir Henry's name from future editions, or
allot to him a more dignified part on the stage, and one which will
convey a more correct view of his character and position.--I am, Sir,
your obedient servant,

"Henry Bedingfeld."

Tennyson's answer to the above, dated from the Isle of Wight, six
months later, though courteous, left the matter almost where it was, so
far as historical accuracy was secured:--

"Sir,--Your letter arrived when I was abroad, else would have been
answered at once; and therefore I waited till the play should be
announced for acting. I had made your ancestor an honest gentleman
though a rough one, as I found him reported to be, whether true or no;
and I regret that you should have been pained by my representation of
him. Now, in deference to your wishes, his name is not once mentioned
on the stage, and he is called in the play-bill merely 'Governor of
Woodstock.' Moreover, I have inserted a line in Elizabeth's part: 'But,
girl, you wrong a noble gentleman.'--I have the honour to be, Sir, your
obedient servant,

"A. Tennyson."

In spite, however, of the best intention on the part of the author, the
American edition of the play, priding itself on being "the only
unmutilated version," preserves the exact wording of the poem.* Thus
has history ever been medicated to suit the prejudices of the
uncritical and the ignorant.

* De Witt's acting plays, No. 181, Queen Mary; a drama. Edited by John
M. Kingdom.


Sir Henry Bedingfeld, who was born in the year 1509, was the grandson
of Sir Edmund Bedingfeld, the favourite of three successive kings,
Edward IV., Richard III., and Henry VII. This same Sir Edmund had
served in the Wars of the Roses, and Edward IV., by letters patent of
the twenty-second year of his reign, granted to him, "for his faithful
service, licence to build towers, walls, and such other fortifications
as he pleased in his manors of Oxburgh, together with a market there
weekly, and a court of pye-powder." He also bestowed on him his own
royal badge the Falcon and Fetterlock. Richard III. made him a Knight
of the Bath, and Henry VII. visited him at Oxburgh. In the third year
of his reign this king granted three manors in Yorkshire, Wold, Newton,
and Gaynton to him and his heirs male for ever, in return for his help
in crushing the rebellion in the north, which patent was renewed and
confirmed by Henry VIII. Sir Edmund died in 1496, and was succeeded by
his only son, another Edmund, who attended Henry VIII. in his foreign
wars, and was knighted for valour by Charles Brandon, Duke of Suffolk,
on the battle-field, after the taking of Montdidier in 1523. The king
appointed him steward to Katharine of Arragon at Kimbolton. He married
Grace, daughter of Henry, Lord Marny, and by her had four sons, Henry,
Edmund, Anthony, and Humphrey. Henry, who succeeded him in 1533, was
the famous Lieutenant of the Tower, and the "jailor" of the Princess
Elizabeth. Henry's wife was Katharine, daughter of Sir Roger Townshend,
one of the judges of the Court of Common Pleas, and ancestor of the
present Marquis Townshend. Sir Henry Bedingfeld kept up some state at
Oxburgh, having twenty servants in livery, besides those employed in
husbandry. When he was away on the queen's business, the management of
his estate devolved on Dame Katharine, and a letter from this lady
addressed "To the right worshipful, my very good husband," and dated
Oxburgh, October 1554, is a compte rendu of all she had done for his
property during his absence. This document which has had a chequered
career, has lately, with some others, found its way back to the Oxburgh
archives. Another, the draft of which has lately been discovered among
the muniments of this venerable old house, strikes a more pathetic
note, and testifies, to the affectionate dependence with which Lady
Bedingfeld leaned on her lord.

"Lady Bedingfeld to the lords of the Council, praying to have her
husband with her during her confinement:--

My Lords,--Being very near the time of my being brought to bed, and Sir
Henry Bedingfeld in the country, who is very tender in giving any
offence to the Queen's Majesty, this is humbly to beg your Lordships
will be pleased to confirm the order as he may have leave to be with me
till the time of my approaching danger be over, and I shall acknowledge
it as a very great favour done to your Lordships' most humble servant."

On the reverse side of this draft is a recipe for "Lime drinks against
the King's Evil, or any sharp humours."

Although a man does not necessarily write himself down angel or devil,
it is true of most people that their correspondence is a fair
indication of their character, tastes, and habits. The letters written
by and addressed to Sir Henry Bedingfeld reveal him as of the usual
type of country gentlemen of the period, interested in sport and
agriculture, but having also some experience of soldiering. He could be
counted on to raise a troop of horse or foot in an emergency, provided
it were in the service of the lawful sovereign. He made it his business
to become acquainted with the condition of Marshland, in order to
account to the queen for the fealty of those around him; and Elizabeth,
no less than Mary, knew that she could rely on him to uphold her
authority in the eastern Counties, His letters to Mary show that
notwithstanding his frankness, and his freedom from diplomatic
subtlety, his manners did not lack the polish of the courtier. In the
fulfilment of his charge he was ever prudent, cautious, and almost
timid in the matter of accepting responsibility; in no sense covetous
of office, he was yet so scrupulous in the discharge of duty, that he
scarcely ever acted on his own judgment if he could possibly wring
instructions from the Privy Council. His loyalty, uprightness,
courtesy, and modesty, stood him in lieu of more brilliant parts, and
his severity was at all times tempered by that quality of mercy which
"is not strained." To all this must be added his fidelity to his
religion in difficult and dangerous times.

His life after Mary's accession, to which he had materially
contributed, falls naturally into three parts: 1. The period during
which he had the care of the Princess Elizabeth. 2. His term of office
as Lieutenant of the Tower. 3. The twenty-five years after Mary's
death, which he spent for the most part in retirement in Norfolk.

On the 18th March 1554, this portentous missive was delivered to him:--

"My duty remembered, these shall be to advise you that on Friday my
lady Elizabeth was sent to the Tower at 10 of the clock. The Parliament
shall be holden at Westminster on the day aforesaid; and the Queen is
in good health, thanks be to God, who preserve you in much worship.
This Good Friday riding by the way.--Your servant to command,

"Thomas Waters.

"To the right worshipful Sir Henry Bedyngfeld give these, written in
haste."

The causes of Elizabeth's arrest were far-reaching. Circumstantial
evidence of her connection with Wyatt's rebellion was not wanting, and
if Mary had been willing to have her sister convicted on that evidence
alone, her head would undoubtedly have fallen on the block. Elizabeth
herself in numerous instances caused blood to flow on far less certain
grounds. But her guilt could not otherwise be brought home, and in her
first Parliament Mary had restored the ancient, constitutional law of
England, by which overt or spoken acts of treason must be proved,
before any English person could be convicted as a traitor.

The case against Elizabeth was this. The French Ambassador, de
Noailles, whose instructions were that he should play upon the popular
discontent in regard to the queen's proposed marriage to Philip of
Spain, in the interest of France, encouraged Elizabeth to associate
herself with the factious, and to become, as it were, the
stalking-horse of the disaffected. She was far too clever to commit
herself to any direct act of rebellion, but de Noailles was prodigal of
her name in all the intrigues that he fostered, and the plot organised
by means of Sir Peter Carew, in Devonshire and Cornwall, had for its
declared object the marriage of Elizabeth to Courtenay, Earl of Devon,
and the placing of these two on the throne. Sir Thomas Wyatt had
meanwhile raised the standard of revolt in the home counties, but
before leaving London for that purpose, he had written a letter to
Elizabeth, urging her for greater safety to retire to her castle of
Donnington. This letter fell into the hands of the Council, as did also
three letters from de Noailles to the French king, directly implicating
Elizabeth in the insurrection, and a copy of the letter which she had
written to Mary, refusing on the plea of illness to obey the queen's
summons to the Court. Lord Russell confessed to having carried
communications between the princess and Wyatt, and that traitor, being
brought to trial, owned that the object of his rising was to secure the
crown for Elizabeth and Courtenay. He subsequently repeated the
statement, adding that the French king had promised them men and money,
and was to attack Calais and Guisnes the moment the rebels were in
possession of London. Whether he really withdrew this accusation of
Elizabeth on the scaffold must always remain doubtful, the testimony of
the sheriffs being in direct contradiction to that of Lord Chandos, who
was also present. It was not until Wyatt had formerly declared
Elizabeth to be conspiring with Henry II. of France, that Mary was at
length convinced of the necessity of securing her person. She repeated
her summons, but not, as Foxe would have us believe, with inconsiderate
cruelty and rough haste. Elizabeth's uncle, Admiral Lord William
Howard, Sir Edward Hastings, and Sir Thomas Cornwallis, were sent to
escort her from Ashridge to Westminster, with two physicians who were
to decide whether she were well enough to travel. She was treated with
uniform courtesy and consideration, and the journey of thirty-three
miles, originally intended to occupy five days, was actually made to
cover a whole week. The imperial ambassador thus describes her
arrival*:--

* State Papers (Domestic), 1554, vol. xxi.; R.O.


"The lady Elizabeth arrived here yesterday, clad completely in white,
surrounded by a great assemblage of servants of the Queen, besides her
own people. Her countenance was pale, her look proud, lofty, and
superbly disdainful, an expression which she assumed to disguise the
mortification she felt. The Queen declined seeing her, and caused her
to be accommodated in a quarter of her palace from which neither she
nor her servants could go out without passing through the guards. Of
her suite, only two gentlemen, six ladies, and four servants are
permitted to wait on her, the rest of her train being lodged in the
city of London. The queen is advised to send her to the Tower, since
she is accused by Wyatt, named in the letters of the French ambassador,
suspected by her own councillors, and it is certain that the enterprise
was undertaken in her favour."*

* Record Office Transcripts (Belgian Archives), printed by Tytler in
his England under the reins of Edward VI. and Mary.


When charged with complicity in the plot, Elizabeth replied that she
knew nothing of it. The members of the Council were divided concerning
her, some maintaining that the legal proof against her was insufficient
to justify her being sent to the Tower, while others were for giving
her short shrift. Mary availed herself of this loophole, and caused
each lord of the Council in succession to be asked to undertake the
custody of the princess in his own house. Not one was willing to accept
the perilous office, and a warrant was therefore made out for her
committal. There was a very general impression at the time, that her
life would have been in danger, but for Mary's determination that the
law should not be infringed at her trial. Nothing could be adduced that
was not already known, and in spite of the emperor's reiterated demands
for her execution, Mary would not have her convicted on the only
evidence obtainable.

It was for Elizabeth's greater safety that the queen appointed Sir
Henry Bedingfeld to be her custodian, and Foxe's absurd description of
Bedingfeld's arrival with his hundred soldiers in blue-coats, and
Elizabeth's terror at the sight, is manifestly a fabrication of the
martyrologist's brain. We have already had a glimpse of Sir Henry's
antecedent history. He had materially contributed to Mary's triumph
over her enemies, and may be said to have been one of the train
instruments in placing the Queen on the throne; he was a distinguished
member of her Privy Council, therefore a public personage, and it is
inconceivable that Elizabeth should have asked who he was, as being "a
man unknown to her Grace," or that her attendants and friends should
have answered that "they were ignorant what manner of man he was." Foxe
himself had betaken himself to foreign parts on Mary's accession, and
may perhaps be pardoned for not knowing, although we find it hard to
forgive him for the baseless fabrication by which he sought to
discredit the queen and all those who served her faithfully.

"About that time," romances Foxe, "it was spread abroad that her Grace
should be carried from thence by this new jolly Captain and his
soldiers; but whither it could not be learned, which was unto her a
great grief, especially for that such a company was appointed to her
guard, requesting rather to continue there still, than to be led thence
with such a sort of rascals. At last plain answer was made by the Lord
Chandos, that there was no remedy but from thence she must needs depart
to the manor of Woodstock."

He goes on to say that on 19th May she was removed from the Tower,
"where Sir Henry Benifield [being appointed her jailor] did receive her
with a company of rake-hells to guard her, besides the Lord Derby's
band, wafting in the country about for moonshine in the water. Unto
whom at length came my Lord of Thame, joined in commission with the
said Sir Henry for the safeguarding of her to prison, and they together
conveyed her Grace to Woodstock, as hereafter followeth. The first day
they conducted her to Richmond, where she continued all night, being
restrained of her own men which were laid in out-chambers, and Sir
Henry Benifield's soldiers appointed in their rooms to give attendance
on her person. Whereat she being marvellously dismayed, thinking verily
some secret mischief to be a-working towards her, called her
gentleman-usher, and desired him with the rest of his company to pray
for her. 'For this night,' quoth she, 'I think to die.' Wherewith, he
being stricken to the heart, said, 'God forbid that any such wickedness
should be pretended against your Grace.' So comforting her as well as
he could, at last he burst out into tears, and went from her down into
the court, where were talking the Lord Thame and Sir Henry Benifield."

We may now dismiss Foxe and his egregious insinuations of foul play,
together with his monstrous inventions of boorishness on the part of
Elizabeth's custodian. In spite of his calumnies, it remains perfectly
clear that Elizabeth had every reason to be thankful that her "jailor"
was faithful to his trust, and that firmness and caution, rather than
weak indulgence, characterised all his conduct towards her. As for his
alleged want of courtesy towards her, there is not a shadow of evidence
to support it; he frequently knelt to address her, and even in speaking
or writing of her, maintained the same deferential mode of expression
as that which he used in her presence.

Each incident of the journey from the Tower to Woodstock is detailed in
Sir Henry's report to the Privy Council. Elizabeth apparently seized
every opportunity of making his difficult task yet more difficult; but
wayward and imperious as her temper often was, nothing in his demeanour
towards her ever approached to disrespect or even impatience. Even she
herself brought no other complaint against her custodian than that of
"scrupulousness" in the discharge of his duty, a charge which is in
itself a magnificent vindication, for the Elizabeth of history was not
one to forgive a man who had failed in the smallest degree to pay her
the homage due to her rank. Moreover, in regard to Sir Henry's
soldiers, no single instance is recorded on either side of misbehaviour
or want of decorum on their part.

In his first letter to the queen after their arrival at Woodstock, Sir
Henry says:--

"My lady Elizabeth's Grace did use [? peruse] the letter which your
Highness sent her, wherein she was right weary, to my judgment, the
occasion rising of the stark style of the same letter, being warpen and
cast. This present day she hath not been very well at ease, as your
Highness's women did declare unto me, and yet at the afternoon she
required to walk, and see another lodging in the house. In the which,
and other her like requests, I am marvellously perplexed to grant her
desire, or to say nay, seeing it hath been your Highness's pleasure to
remove her person from and out of the Tower of London where I was led
to do upon more certainty by the precedent of my good Lord Chamberlain
[Sir John Gage] and also by certain articles, by me exhibited unto my
lords of the Council and by them ordered, which were to me a perfect
rule at that time, and now is very hard to be observed in this place.
Wherefore I most lowly and heartily do desire your Highness to give me
authority and order in writing from your Majesty or your Council, how
to demean myself in this your Highness's service, whereby I shall be
the more able to do the same, and also receive comfort and heart's ease
to be your Highness's daily beadsman to God for persuasion of your most
princely and sovereign estate long to endure to God's honour.

"The 21 of May, 1554."*

* This and the next following letters are taken from the fourth volume
of the publications of the Norfolk and Norwich Archaeological Society,
"State Papers relating to the custody of the Princess Elizabeth at
Woodstock in 1554," being letters between Queen Mary and her Privy
Council and Sir Henry Bedingfeld, Knight, of Oxburgh, Norfolk,
communicated by the Rev. C.R. Manning, M.A., Hon. Sec. The originals
were formerly in Mr. Manning's possession, but have now disappeared.
The present writer has modernised the spelling.


In answer to this letter the Council wrote approving his doings, and
thanking Sir Henry on the part of the queen. A number of instructions
for his further conduct were also sent, the purport of which will be
gathered from his reply:--

"My letter answering to the former, the Council's letters.

"So it is, most honourable lords, that upon the return of my brother
Humphrey, I received instructions signed with the Queen's Majesty's
hand, and enclosed in a letter signed by your Lordships as a warrant to
direct my service how to be used during the Queen's Majesty's pleasure,
trusting only in God to make me able to do and accomplish the same. I
travail and shall do to the best of my power till God and her Highness
shall otherwise dispose for me, wishing that shortly it should come to
pass, if it may so stand with her Highness's good contention and your
honour. As touching the fifth article, which purported this in effect
that I should not suffer the lady Elizabeth's Grace to have conference
with any suspect person out of my hearing, that she do not by any means
either receive or send any message, letter or token, to or from any
manner of person, which, under your honourable corrections, must thus
answer to that, as touching conference with suspected persons, if your
Lordships mean strangers, and such as be not daily attending upon her
person by your assents and privities, with the help above said, I dare
take upon me that to do. But if you mean general conference with all
persons, as well within her house as without, I shall beseech you of
pardon, for that I dare not take upon me, nor yet for message, letter
or token, which may be conveyed by any of the three women of her privy
chamber, her two grooms of the same or the yeomen of the robes, all
which persons and none others be with her Grace at her going to her
lodging, and part of them all night, and until such time as her grace
cometh to her dining-chamber, the grooms always after going abroad
within the house, having full opportunity to do such matter as is
prohibited. And hereunto I beseech your honours ask my Lord Chamberlain
whether it will be within possibility for me to do it or no, whose
order in all things I have and do, according to my poor wit and
endeavour put in use; and upon his declaration to direct order
possible. At the present writing hereof one Marbery, my lady Grace's
servant, brought his wife, Elizabeth Marbery, to have been received to
have wait upon her Grace, in the stead of Elizabeth Sands, and because
I received no manner of warrant from you my Lords, to do it, I have
required the said Marbery to stay himself and his wife hereabouts, till
I might receive the same, which I pray you to do with all speed, for
they been very poor folks, and unable to bear their own charge as I
perceive.

"Her Grace, thanks be to God, continueth in reasonable health and
quietness, as far as I can perceive; but she claimeth promise of the
mouth of my Lords Treasurer and Chamberlain to have the liberty of walk
within the whole park of Woodstock. This she hath caused to come to
mine ear by my Lady Gray, but never spoke of it to me by express words
. . . . Her Grace hath not hitherto made any request to walk in any
other place than in the over and nether gardens with the orchard,
which, if she happens to do, I must needs answer I neither dare nor
will assent unto it, till by the Queen's Highness and your honours I be
authorised that to do . . . . Cornwallis, the gentleman-usher, did move
me to assent that the cloth of estate should be hanged up for her
Grace, whereunto I directly said nay, till your Lordships' pleasures
were known therein.

"Postscript.--There was some peril of fire within the house, which we
have without any loss to be regarded, escaped. Thanks be to God."

In answer to the above the Council thanked and commended Sir Henry for
all that he had hitherto done, adding:--

"Where ye desire to be resolved of certain doubts which you gather upon
your instructions, ye shall understand that although we well know ye
cannot meet such inconvenience as may happen by those that attend upon
the lady Elizabeth, in bringing unto her letters, messages or tokens,
yet if ye shall use your diligence and wisdom there as ye shall see
cause, it shall be your sufficient discharge. As for strangers, ye must
foresee that no persons suspect have any conference with her at all,
and yet to permit such strangers whom ye shall think honest and not
suspicious, upon any reasonable cause to speak with her in your hearing
only. As for placing Elizabeth Marbery in lieu of Sands, letters be
already sent from the Queen's Highness unto you therefore, which we
pray you to see executed accordingly. Where she claimeth promise of the
Lord Treasurer and me the Lord Chamberlain to walk in the park, as we
have heard nothing before this time thereof, so do not I the Lord
Chamberlain remember any such promise."

The queen's letter was as follows:--

"Marye The Quene. By the Quene

"Trusty and right well-beloved, we greet you well. And where we be
informed that Sands, one of the women presently attending about our
sister the Lady Elizabeth, is a person of an evil opinion, and not fit
to remain about our said sister's person, we let you wit, our will and
pleasure is, you shall travail with our said sister, and by the best
means ye can persuade her to be contented to have the said Sands
removed from her, and to accept in her place, Elizabeth Marbery,
another of her women, who shall be sent thither for that purpose: whom
at her coming we require you to be placed there, and to give order that
the said Sands may be removed from thence accordingly.

"Given under our signet, at our manor of St. James, the 26th day of
May, the first year of our reign."

It was soon found necessary to cancel the permission for strangers to
have access to the captive princess, and the Council accordingly wrote
to Sir Henry:--

"And forasmuch as it appeareth hereby that such private persons as be
disposed to disquiet will not let to take occasion if they may, to
convey messages or letters in and out by some secret practice, her
Majesty's further pleasure is for the avoiding hereof, that ye shall
henceforth suffer no manner person other than such as are already
appointed to, be about the Lady Elizabeth, to come unto her or have any
manner, talk, or conference with her, any former instructions or
letters heretofore sent you to the contrary notwithstanding."

Elizabeth made difficulties with regard to every detail of her custody,
and the substitution of Marbery, although she was one of her own women,
for Sands, was not effected without a struggle; but on the 5th June Sir
Henry was able to report that: "The same was done this present day,
about 2 of the clock in the afternoon, not without great mourning both
of my Lady's Grace and Sands. And she was conveyed into the town by my
brother Edmund, and by him delivered to Mr. Parry, who at my desire
yesternight did prepare horse and men to be ready to convey her either
to Clerkenwell beside London to her uncle there, or else into Kent, to
her father, towards the which he promised she should go. This I do
signify unto your lordships, because I think her a woman meet to be
looked unto for her obstinate disposition."

In another very long letter he certifies that the princess has asked
for an English Bible "of the smallest possible volume," desiring that
he would send to her cofferer for one. But the cofferer replied that he
had none at all, but sent a servant with three books, one of which
contained the Psalms of David and the Canticles. Leave was given for
her to have an English Bible, and for her to write to the Queen as she
desired.

On the 12th June Sir Henry wrote to the Council a letter highly
informative as to the difficulties of his position:--

"Pleaseth it your honourable lordships to be advertised, that the same
day I last wrote unto you, my lady Elizabeth's Grace demanded of me
whether I had provided her the book of the Bible in English of the
smallest volume, or no. I answered, because there were divers Latin
books in my hands ready to be delivered if it pleased her to have them,
wherein as I thought she should have more delight, seeing she
understandeth the same so well; therefore I had not provided the same,
which answer I perceived she took not in good part, and within
half-an-hour after that, in her walking in the nether garden, in the
most unpleasant sort that ever I saw her since her coming from the
Tower, she called me to her again, and said in these words: 'I have at
divers times spoken to you to write to my lords of certain my requests,
and you never make me answer to any of them. I think (quoth she) you
make none of my lords privy to my suit, but only my Lord Chamberlain,
who, although I know him to be a good gentleman, yet by age, and other
his earnest business, I know he hath occasion to forget many things.'
To this I answered that I did never write in her Grace's matter to any
of you my lords privately, and said unto her Grace further, that I
thought this was a time that your lordships had great business in,* and
therefore her Grace could not look for direct answer upon the first
suit. 'Well,' said she, 'once again I require you to do thus much for
me, to write unto my said lords, on my behalf to be means unto the
Queen's Majesty, to grant me leave to write unto her Highness with mine
own hand, and in this I pray you let me have answer as soon as you
can.' To this I answered: 'I shall do for your Grace that I am able to
do, which is to write to my said Lords, and then it must needs rest in
their honourable considerations whether I shall have answer or no,'
since which time her Grace never spoke to me. Surely, I take it that
the remembrance of Elizabeth Sands' departing, and the only placing
Marbery in her room, clearly against her late desire, is some cause of
her grief [grievance]."

* On account of the Queen's approaching marriage.


The effect produced by the princess's letter to Mary may be gathered
from the following reply, written by the Queen to Sir Henry:--

"Marye The Quene. By the Quene.

"Trusty and well-beloved, we greet you well. And where our pleasure was
of late signified unto you for the Lady Elizabeth to have licence to
write unto us, we have now received her letters, containing only
certain arguments devised for her declaration in such matters as she
hath been charged withal by the voluntary confessions of divers others.
In which arguments she would seem to persuade us, that the testimony of
those who have opened matters against her, either were not such as they
be, or being such should have no credit. But as we were most sorry at
the beginning, to have any occasion of suspicion, so when it appeared
unto us, that the copies of her secret letters unto us were found in
the packet of the French ambassador, that divers of the most notable
traitors made their chief account upon her, we can hardly be brought to
think that they would have presumed to do so, except they had had more
certain knowledge of her favour towards their unnatural conspiracy than
is yet by her confessed. And therefore, though we have for our part,
considering the matter brought to our knowledge against her, used more
clemency and favour towards her than in the like matter hath been
accustomed; yet cannot these fair words so much abuse [deceive] us, but
we do well understand how these things have been wrought. Conspiracies
be secretly practised, and things of that nature be many times judged
by probable conjectures, and other suspicions and arguments, where the
plain, direct proof may chance to fail; even as wise Solomon judged who
was the true mother of the child by the woman's behaviour and words,
when other proof failed and could not be had. By the argument and
circumstances of her said letter with other articles declared on your
behalf by your brother to our Privy Council, it may well appear her
meaning and purpose to be far otherwise than her letters purported.
Wherefore our pleasure is not to be hereafter any more molested with
such her disguise and colourable letters, but wish for her that it may
please our Lord to grant her His grace to be towards Him as she ought
to be; then shall she the sooner be towards us as becometh her. This
much have we thought good to write unto you, to the intent ye might
understand the effect of those letters, and so continue your accustomed
diligence in the charge by us committed to you.

"Given under our signet at the Castle of Farnham, the 25th day of June,
the first year of our reign."

The gist of this letter was communicated to Elizabeth by Sir Henry in
the manner he himself describes:--

"Yesterday I went to hear Mass in her Grace's chamber; that being
ended, in the time of doing my duty, thinking to have departed from her
Grace, she called me, and asked whether I had heard of any answer that
was or should be made by the Queen's Majesty to her late letters. Upon
which occasion, fitly as I took it, I made her Grace answer that I had
to declare unto her an answer on the Queen's Majesty's behalf,
whensoever she should command me. 'Let it be even now,' said her Grace.
'If you will,' I answered, 'because I was fearful to misreport;
therefore I have scribbled it as well as I can with mine own hand, and
if you will give me leave to fetch it,' and, being ready to go in to
her Grace with it, I received word from her Grace by one of the Queen's
Majesty's women to stay till her Grace had dined, and then she would
hear it. Within a mean pause after dinner she sent for me, and having
Mr. Tomiou in my company, who going with me into the outer chamber,
there staying, I went in to her Grace, and required her if it so stood
with her pleasure that he might hear the doing of the message. She
granted it, and I called him in, and kneeling by with me, I read unto
her Grace my message according to the effect of the Queen's Majesty's
letter. After once hearing of it she uttered certain words, bewailing
her own chance in that her Grace's letter, contrary to her
expectations, took no better effect, and desired to hear it once again,
which I did. And then her Grace said: 'I note especially to my great
discomfort [which I shall, nevertheless, willingly obey] that the
Queen's Majesty is not pleased that I should molest her Highness with
any more of my colourable letters, which, although they be termed
colourable, yet not offending the Queen's Majesty, I must say for
myself that it was the plain truth, even as I desire to be saved afore
God Almighty, and so let it pass. Yet, Mr. Bedyngfeld, if you think you
may do so much for me, I would have you to receive an answer which I
would make unto you touching your message, which I would at the least
way, my Lords of the Council might understand, and that ye would
conceive it upon my words, and put it in writing, and let me hear it
again. And if it be according to my meaning, so to pass it to my
lordships for my better comfort in mine adversity.' To this I answered
her Grace: 'I pray you, hold me excused that I do not grant your
request in the same.' Then she said: 'It is like that I shall be
offered more than ever any prisoner was in the Tower, for the prisoners
be suffered to open their mind to the Lieutenant, and he to declare the
same unto the Council, and you refuse to do the like.' To this I
answered her Grace that there was a diversity where the Lieutenant did
hear a prisoner declare matters touching his case, and should thereof
give notice unto the Council, and where the prisoner should, as it
were, command the Lieutenant to do his message to the Council.
Therefore, I desired that her Grace would give me leave with patience
not to agree to her desire herein, and so departed from her Grace.

"Yesterday morning again, about x of the clock, in the time of her
walk, she called me to her in the little garden, and said: 'I remember
yesterday ye refused utterly to write on my behalf unto my Lords of the
Council, and therefore, if you continue in that mind still, I shall be
in worse case than the worst prisoner In Newgate, for they be never
gainsaid in the time of their imprisonment by one friend or other to
have their cause opened or sued for, and this is and shall be such a
conclusion unto me, that I must needs continue this life without all
hope worldly, wholly resting to the truth of my cause, and that before
God to be opened, arming myself against whatsoever shall happen, to
remain the Queen's true subject as I have done during my life. It
waxeth wet, and therefore I will depart to my lodging again;' and so
she did. Thus much concerning her Grace, I thought it my duty to give
your lordships advertisement of, to be considered as it shall please
your honours, clearly omitting any part of the message, and such which
my lady's Grace would have had me to have taken upon me, and shall do
so, unless I have the Queen's Majesty's warrant for the same."

This report had the desired effect, and the Council gave Sir Henry
leave "to write those things that she shall desire you, and to signify
the same to us of her Majesty's Council, sending your letters touching
that matter enclosed in some paper directed to her Highness, so as she
may herself have the first sight thereof."

Mary's next letter was personal to Sir Henry himself:--

"Trusty and right well-beloved, we greet you well. And where we
understand that by occasion of certain our instructions lately given
unto you, ye do continually make your personal abode within that our
house at Woodstock, without removing from thence at any time, which
thing might, peradventure in continuance, be both some danger to your
health, and be occasion also that ye shall not be so well able to
understand the state of the country thereabouts, as otherwise ye might;
we let you wit that in consideration thereof; we are pleased ye may at
any time, when yourself shall think convenient, make your repair from
out of our said house, leaving one of your brethren to look to your
charge, and see to the good governance of that house in your absence,
so as, nevertheless, ye return back again yourself at night, for the
better looking to your said charge. And for your better ease and
recreation, we are, in like manner pleased that ye and your brethren
may, at your liberties, hawk for your pastime at the partridge, or hunt
the hare within that our manor of Woodstock, or any of our grounds
adjoining to the same, from time to time, when ye shall think most
convenient; and that also ye may, if ye shall so think good, cause your
wife to be sent for, and to remain there with you as long as yourself
shall think meet.

"Given under our signet at our Castle of Farnham, ye 7th of July, ye
second year of our reign."

Elizabeth was not slow to profit by the permission obtained for her to
write to the Council through the intermediary allowed, and Sir Henry's
letter-book contains the following transcript of his report written in
his own hand.

"My lady Elizabeth's Grace's suit:--

"My lady Elizabeth, this present 30th of July, required me to make
report of her Grace's mind as her suit to your honours to be means to
the Queen's Majesty on her behalf to this effect. To beseech your
lordships all to consider her woeful case, that being but once licensed
to write as an humble suitress unto the Queen's Highness, and received
thereby no such comfort as she hoped to have done, but to her further
discomfort in a message by me opened, that it was the Queen's
Highness's pleasure not to be any more molested with her Grace's
letters, that it may please the same, and that upon very pity,
considering her long imprisonment and restraint of liberty, either to
charge her with special matter to be answered unto and tried, or to
grant her liberty to come unto Her Highness's presence, which she saith
she would not desire, were it not that she knoweth herself to be clear,
even before God, of her allegiance. And if also by your good mediations
she might not enjoy the Queen's Highness's most gracious favour without
any scruples or suspicions of her truth, she had rather willingly
suffer this that she doth, and much more, than her Majesty should in
any case be troubled or disquieted, touching her whose honour surely
and preservation she saith she doth desire above all things in this
world. Requiring me further to move chiefly as many of you my lords as
were a Council, parties, and privy to and for the execution of the will
of the King's Majesty her father, to further this her Grace's suit
above said. And if neither of these two her suits may be obtained by
your lordships for her, that then it might please the Queen's Highness
to grant that some of you my lords may have leave to repair hither unto
her, and to receive her suit of her own mouth to be opened. Whereby she
may take a release not to think herself utterly desolate of all refuge
in this world."

To this the Council made reply on the 7th August that "the Queen's
Highness" would "take a time to consider, and at convenient leisure
make such answer thereunto as shall be` necessary"; but Elizabeth's
imperious temper brooked no delay, and Sir Henry was soon prevailed on
to jog their lordship's memories:--

"Upon Friday last," he wrote, "my lady Elizabeth's Grace, in the time
of her walk in the over garden here, in the forenoon of the same day,
said unto me, 'I have very slow speed in the answer of any of my suits,
and I know it is ever so, when that there is not one appointed to give
daily attendance in suit-making for answer. And therefore,' saith she,
'I pray you let me send a servant of mine own to whom I will do the
message in your hearing that he shall do by my commandment; and this I
think,' said she, 'is not against the order and service appointed unto
you.' To which I answered requiring her Grace to be contented, for I
neither could nor would assent to any such her request. 'Then,' said
she, 'I am at a marvellous afterdeal [disadvantage], for I have known
that the wife hath been received to sue for her husband, the kinsman,
friend or servant for them that hath been in the case I now am, and
never denied.' To that I answered: 'I myself am of small experience in
such case; that notwithstanding, I trust ye shall not be long, or my
lords of the Council will remember your suit, and answer the same.'"
And so her Grace ended.

Harsh as this refusal may appear at first sight, it must be admitted
that Sir Henry, in reporting his conversations with Elizabeth to the
Council often obtained for her if not exactly what she had asked for,
at least some concession, which, had she been entirely in good faith,
would have served her purpose as well. But in spite of her jailor's
"scrupulousness " she contrived to communicate pretty freely by means
of Parry, her cofferer, and others, with the outside world. Bolts and
bars were ineffectual so long as those who surrounded her were willing
intermediaries between her and the enemies of the queen, and Sir Henry
knew it well. He desired nothing more than to be rid of his onerous
charge, as is seen by the following letter to Thirlby, Bishop of Ely:--

"After my hearty commendations to your good lordship, so it is that as
you do know, I have continued this service by the space of fifteen
weeks, in care of mind and some travail of body, which I would be glad
to make suit to be relieved of, if I might know it should be taken in
good part. And having no friend whom I believe myself to be so assured
of as your lordship, even thereupon I am bold by these heartily to
desire your travail in my behalf [if it so stand with your good
opinion] to the Queen's Majesty, to grant me my discharge from the
same. Wherein I trust my Lord Chancellor* will join with you, if it
content you to move him thereunto, who, by words of marvellous effect
comprising both the Queen's commandment that I should enter into it,
and his earnest request at that time also, did cause me to take in hand
the same. And lest my, said Lord should forget, I pray you put him in
remembrance that he had this talk with me upon the causeway betwixt the
house of Saint James and Charing Cross. And what it shall content you
to do for me herein, I shall desire you to be ascertained by your
letters, upon the return of the messenger. I made late a suit to you
for your house at Blackfriars, and received answer that you had
otherwise disposed the same; yet remembering that you had an house of
my Lord of Bath in Holborn, which, as the case now standeth, I think
your Lordship will have little pleasure to use, and if, by your good
mean, I might obtain the same at my Lord of Bath's hands, you should do
unto me a great good turn, which have no house of refuge in London, but
the common inn, and would be glad to give large money to be avoided of
that inconvenience. And thus remaining at the Queen's Majesty's house
of Woodstock [out of which I was never, by the space of six hours, sith
my coming into the same], I leave to trouble your Lordship with this my
rude writing.

"At the house aforesaid, the 16th day of August 1554."

* Stephen Gardiner, Bishop of Winchester.


But nothing came of his efforts to get himself released, and the
unequal contest between his "scrupulousness," and Elizabeth's astute,
unfathomable diplomacy was still to be waged for many months. Her
request to be allowed to send a verbal message to the Council by one of
her servants was indeed declined, but she received permission to commit
her petition to paper. On the 20th September, Sir Henry wrote to the
Council:--

Upon the return of my brother Edmund with your honourable letters dated
at Hampton Court the 15th of this present month, I did take knowledge
that your lordships had obtained of the Queen's Majesty that my lady
Elizabeth's Grace might write unto your lordships, delivering the same
unto me to be addressed unto your honours, inclosed in my letter, by
one of her grace's extraordinary servants; whereupon the Monday, being
the 17th day in the forenoon of the same, I declared that your
lordships had granted her Grace's late desire in form above said, which
was glad tidings as I took it. Yet her Grace at that time did neither
command me to prepare things for her Grace to write with nor named who
should be her messenger, and so I departed. Her Grace never spake words
of that matter more till the Sunday following, in the time of her
Grace's walk at the afternoon, at which time her Grace commanded to
prepare her pen and ink and paper against the next day, which I did.
Upon Monday in the morning her Grace sent Mistress Morton, the Queen's
Highness's woman for the same, to whom I delivered a standsel [an
inkstand] with five pens, two sheets of fine paper and one coarse
sheet, enclosing the same with this request unto the said Mistress
Morton, that she should make suit to my lady's Grace on my behalf, that
it would please her Grace not to use the same but in the sight of
Mistress Tomio or her. And the same Mistress Morton did this, and
brought me word that her Grace had consented to my said suit, and that
I should also send word unto Francis Verney, her Grace's ordinary
servant lying in the town of Woodstock, with her cofferer to be
messenger. Where I perceive they use as much privy conference to her
Grace and from her as they list, even as I advertised your lordships
long ago. The house also being a common inn wherein they do lie, and
they so politic as they be, I can get no knowledge of their doings by
any espyal; this only I am sure of they meet not together in person. At
the afternoon, in her Grace's going to walk, I heard her say she had
such pain in her head that she could write no more that day. Tuesday in
the morning, as I learned of Mistress Morton, she washed her head."

On the 4th October he wrote to the queen:--

"May it please your Highness to be advertised that this great lady,
upon whose person ye have commanded mine attendance, is and hath been
in quiet state for the health of her body this month or six weeks, and
of her mind declareth nothing outwardly by word or deed that I can come
to the knowledge of, but all tending to the hope she saith she hath of
your clemency and mercy towards her. Marry, against my lords of your
most honourable Council I have heard her speak, words that declare that
she hath conceived great unkindness in them, if her meaning go with her
words, whereof God only is judge."

His task grew daily more complicated, and the next letter is a key to
the situation:--

"My humble duty remembered unto your honourable Lordships, these shall
be to advertise the same, that this present 21st day of October, my
lady Elizabeth's Grace commanded me to prepare things necessary for her
to write unto your lordships, whereupon I took occasion to declare onto
her Grace that the express words of your honourable Letters, dated at
Hampton Court, the 15th of September, did trot bear that the Queen's
Majesty was pleased that her Grace, upon any occasion from time to time
moving, and as often as it pleased her, might write unto you. And
therefore I prayed her Grace to stay her determination therein until I
might signify this my doubt unto your lordships, and receive your full
and plain determination therein for my discharge; which my suit she
took in so ill part that her Grace of displeasure therein did utter,
with more words of reproach of this my service, about her by the
Queen's commandment than ever I heard her speak afore: too long to
write. At afternoon her Grace sent for me by Mrs. Pomeyow, and then in
a more quieter sort, required me to write unto your honours, and
thereby to desire the same to be means for her unto the Queen's
Highness to grant that Drs. Wendy, Owen, and Huick, or two of them, may
be licensed with convenient speed to repair hither, for to minister
unto her physic, bringing of their own choice one expert surgeon to let
her Grace's blood, if the said doctors or two of them shall think it so
good, upon the view of her suit upon their coming . . . . Most heartily
desiring your honours to return with the same your absolute opinions to
the first matter which shall be done accordingly, with our Lord's leave
and help, to understand your pleasures and commandments aright, which
this great lady saith may have good meaning in me, but it lacketh
knowledge, experience, and all other accidents in such a service
requisite, which I must needs confess. The help only hereof resteth in
God and the Queen's Majesty, with your honourable advice; from whence
to receive the discharge of this my service, without offence to the
Queen's Majesty or you my good lords, were the joyfullest tidings that
ever came to me, as our Lord Almighty knoweth, to whom no secrets be
hidden."

The physicians were sent to Woodstock, and Elizabeth was "let blood,"
Sir Henry testifying that "by her own commandment" he saw it done "by
the bleeding of her army); and some hours later he saw her foot
"stricken and bled, since which time, thanks be to God, as far as I see
or hear she doeth reasonably well as that case requireth."

Some months later "the joyfullest tidings that ever came" were conveyed
in a letter from the queen. It was the herald of his longed-for
"discharge":--

"Marye The Quene. By the Quene.

"Trusty and well-beloved, we greet you well. And for as much as we have
resolved to have the lady Elizabeth to repair nearer unto us, we do
therefore pray and require you to declare unto her that our pleasure is
she shall come to us to Hampton Court in your company with as much
speed as you can have things in order for that purpose; wherein you
shall not need to make any delay for calling of any other numbers than
these, which be yourself and those now there attendant upon her. And of
the time of your setting forwards from thence, and by what day you
shall think you may be there, we require you to advertise us by your
letters with speed.

"Given under our signet at our honour of Hampton Court, the 17th of
April the 1st and 2nd of our reign."

On their arrival at court Sir Henry Bedingfeld was relieved, Sir Thomas
Pope being appointed to replace him. Elizabeth was soon afterwards
allowed to retire to Hatfield, where she remained under supervision
till her accession. In the meanwhile, Bedingfeld was appointed
Lieutenant of the Tower, and the following selection of letters from
the family archives at Oxburgh not only affords us a further insight
into his character, but shows at the same time in what manner the State
prisoners were treated by the Queen, the Council, and the Lieutenant.

The two first letters relate to Sir John Cheke who, together with Sir
Peter Carew, had been arrested in Flanders, and brought to the Tower
for implication in Wyatt's rebellion. Carew was released in October
1555.

"Sir Robert Rochester to Sir Henry Bedingfeld.

"Mr. Lieutenant,--My Lord Cardinal his Grace* being gone to Lambeth of
express purpose, there to have before him Mr. Cheke, hath required me
to write unto you, and to require you that the said Mr. Cheke may be
sent unto him unto Lambeth, in the company and with the Dean of Paul's.
Wherefore I pray you take order with the said Dean so as he may convey
him thither accordingly. The meaning is that no officer of the Tower
should be troubled with his conveyance thither, but only the Dean to be
charged by you with his person to bring to my Lord Cardinal's presence,
and he to bring him again when it shall please my said Lord to command
him, who hath the whole order and disposition of this case. This must
be done when Mr. Dean he cometh to you for the man. And so bids you
most heartily well to fare, from the Court this present morning, your
assured friend, R. Rochester."

*Cardinal Pole.


"Sir John Feckenham, Priest,* to Sir John Cheke.

* Abbot of Westminster, who was appointed to examine Cheke in matters
of religion.


"Gentle Mr. Cheke,--It was this day somewhat past l0 of the clock
before I could have any determinate answer of your coming unto the
Court, which is now appointed to be at 2 of the clock in the afternoon.
I shall send two of my servants to wait upon you from the Tower unto my
house, at 1 of the clock, and from thence I will go with you unto the
Court myself. I do think that Mr. Lieutenant is already put to
knowledge thereof, but if it be forgotten give unto him this my letter,
and he will not stay you. Your submission is very well liked, and the
Queen's Highness hath seen the same, with which her Majesty has found
no fault, but only that you had forgotten to make mention in the latter
end thereof of the King's Majesty. And therefore you must write it all
whole again, and in the latter end add these words which I have added
touching the King's Majesty, or else everything is as it was in your
own copy save that I added in one place the real presence of Christ's
Body and Blood. I pray you leave not out these words, and at your
coming I shall hear your cause, where notwithstanding your few lines
which is wrote unto me thereof, be you of good comfort; all things are
well, and imagined best for your furtherance. You have more friends
than you be ware of. Thus fare you well, this present 5 of Sep. 1556,
by your assured friend, John Fecknam, Priest.

"I pray you fail not to write it all again, and that as large and plain
as you can, for I am commanded to request you that you duly so do."

Dr. Cheke, having proved his innocence of conspiracy to the
satisfaction of the Council, and having recanted his heresy, was
released, and "through the efficacy of his language," about thirty
others followed his example, and saved their lives. He died the next
year, the heretics said, of remorse for what he had done against the
reformed religion.

Edward Lewkner, who according to Machyn's Diary had been groom-porter
to Edward VI. and Mary, "was cast to suffer death" in the third year of
Mary's reign for participation in the Dudley conspiracy. While in the
Tower he fell so grievously ill as to excite the Lieutenant's
compassion, and Sir Henry appears to have interceded with the Queen on
his behalf.

"To the Right Worshipful Sir Henry Bedingfeld, Knight, Lieutenant of
the Queen's Highness's Tower of London. Francis Malet, Priest.

"Right Worshipful,--After my hearty commendations these shall be to
certify your Mastership that where your charity was declared in that it
pleased you to take pains to declare by your wise and discreet letters
the piteous state of Lewkner, your prisoner, I was thereby the more
ready and yet not wanting the counsel of a counseller to move the
Queen's goodness in the matter. And her Grace being content to take
into her hands your letter, and going with it into her privy chamber,
said she would consider the matter, and that I should learn what her
Grace's resolute mind will be therein. And therefore to tarry this
messenger any longer at this time I thought but folly, for that I shall
be ready sooner at night if it please her Highness to understand what
answer she will make to my suit; or if it will not be known this night,
as I doubt, for her Grace is as it were ever defatigate with her late
business in dispatching the King of Bohemia's ambassadors, I shall know
as soon as I may what her Grace's determination shall be; and that
known, I shall with all expedition intimate the same unto you, that so
the poor man may be certified of her Grace's pleasure. And in the
meantime I shall most heartily beseech your Mastership to continue your
favour towards the man; and divers of those that be most nigh unto her
Grace's person desire the same at your hands, and saith plainly that
the Queen's Grace will not be discontent that he may have all the
commodity that may be showed him for the recovery of his health within
the Tower. I pray God show His will mercifully upon him, and I trust
the Queen's goodness shall be extended withal unto him to his great
comfort, as knoweth Almighty Jesus, who send you with much worship long
to live and well to live in both soul and body. Scribbled in haste with
the running hand of yours to command, Francis Malet, Priest."

The above letter is undated, but the sequel to the story is related by
the Lieutenant himself in the minutes of a letter to the Council.

"Please it your Grace and my Lords to be advertised that this present
Sunday, the 6th September, Edward Lewkner, prisoner, attainted by long
sickness, departed this transitory life to God, about the hour of eight
of the clock of the night. Who was a willing man in the forenoon of
this day to have received the blessed Sacrament, but the priest that
did serve in the absence of the . . . * did think him so well that it
was meet to be ministered to him but after he had heard his confession.
He did minister unto him the Sacrament of Oiling, or Extreme Unction,
at the which I was present. Tomorrow I intend by God's grace to see him
buried in form appertaining to his condition in life, as I have learned
of those that have seen the like order. Instead of a will he charged me
with his service to the Queen's Majesty, that it might please her
Highness, after forgiveness of his offences towards the same, to
vouchsafe to have pity of his wife and ten poor children, which I
promised to do upon my next waiting upon her Majesty, humbly beseeching
your Lordships all in time most meet to be good lords to the same his
petition. And so as your poor beadsman I take my leave of you.

"From the Queen's Majesty's Tower of London 1556, the night aforesaid,
about 11 of the clock.

"Henry Bedyngfeld."

* Illegible in the manuscript.


Many other letters among this collection give evidence of the kindness
and pity bestowed by the Lieutenant on the prisoners in the Tower, and
the consideration with which their friends were treated, these being
admitted to see them whenever it was practicable. His relations with
nearly all the members of the Privy Council were intimate and cordial,
but perhaps his closest friend was Sir Henry Jerningham, who was not
only a colleague, but the chosen companion of the rare occasions that
were devoted to recreation and pleasure. Their two families had always
been on terms of affectionate intimacy, although it was not until two
generations later that they became allied by marriage, when Thomas
Bedingfeld of Oxburgh, Sir Henry's grandson, married Frances, daughter
and co-heir of John Jerningham of Somerleyton.

On the 16th February 1557, Sir Henry Jerningham, having occasion to
write to the Lieutenant of the Tower on business, ended his letter thus:

"I do and will labour all that I can to have your company into Norfolk
this Lent, to course the hare and hawk the heron. And thus I commit you
to God, praying Him to send us our prosperity. Your assured friend,
Henry Jerningham."

During the years 1553, 1554, and 1557, Sir Henry Bedingfeld sat in
Parliament as one of the knights of the shire for Norfolk. In 1557 he
succeeded Sir Henry Jerningham as Captain of the Yeoman of the Guard,
at which time he was also made vice Chamberlain. But Mary's death in
1558 closed his public career, and he retired to Oxburgh, which, hemmed
in on the south side by miles of fen country, was in those days for all
practical purposes entirely cut off from the world. It was probably
during a temporary absence, and when he was purposing to entertain
guests in his beautiful Norfolk home, that the following letter was
written to him presumably by his steward:--

To the right worshipful and my especial good friend Sir Henry
Bedingfeld, Knight, be this delivered.

"Pleaseth it your Mastership that according to your Mastership's
commandment, I did write to Mr. R and he was not at home. I shall go to
him again, and you shall know by the next messenger; you shall
understand what plate and bedding may be had at his hand. What number
of capons and hens your Mastership would have me to provide I would
desire to know by the next messenger. I doubt fat capons are hard to be
gotten in these parts, therefore if you had any that were ready fed, or
could get any that were fed in Suffolk they might be stayed till the
time you should require them, and have them killed, and carried dead,
and have again instead of them fine lean capons. Lean capons are at 8d.
the piece, and 9d. and 10d. and 12d. Geese are at 6d. and 7d. a piece.
Lean hens 4d. and 5d. Wild fowl was never so hard to be gotten. There
is little taken; the fowlers do say the cause is the weather is so
rainy, and there is as much wait laid for the getting of it as ever
there was for my Lady's Grace and for divers others. I have done as
much as I could to have gotten some for your Mastership, and for my
masters your sons, and could get but six teals. Since Christmas there
is sent you of your own hawk's killing, eleven teals, two mallards, and
eleven bitterns. And I humbly take my leave of your Mastership. From
Oxburgh, 20 of December 1563, by your poor servant,

"Wm. Deye."

It would not have been surprising if Sir Henry Bedingfeld had fallen
more or less into disgrace at this time, for Elizabeth might now, if
she had wished, made him feel the effects of his "scrupulousness"
during the period of her captivity. The following letter from the queen
shows, however, that such was not the case:

"To our trusty and well-beloved Sir Henry Bedingfeld, Knight.

"Elizabeth R By the Quene.

"Trusty and well-beloved, we greet you well. Like as we doubt not, but
by the common report of the world, it appeareth what great
demonstrations of hostility the French make towards this realm, by
transporting great powers into Scotland, upon the pretence only of
their going about the conquest of the same, so have we thought meet
upon more certainty to us of their purpose, to have good regard thereto
in time. And being very jealous of our town of Berwick, the principal
key of all our realm, we have determined to send with speed, succours
both thitherward and to our frontier, as well horsemen as footmen, and
do also send our right trusty and entirely beloved cousin, the Duke of
Norfolk, to be our Lieutenant-General of all the North, from Trent
forward. For which purpose we have addressed our letters to sundry our
nobility and gentlemen in like manner as we do this unto you, willing
and requiring you as you tender and respect the honour of us and surety
of your country, to put in readiness, with all speed possible, one able
man, furnished with a good strong horse or gelding, and armed with a
corselet, and to send the same to Newcastle by such day, and with such
further order for the furniture as shall be appointed to you by our
trusty and well-beloved Sir Edward Wyndham, Knight, and Sir Christopher
Heydon, Knight, whom we have advertised of our further pleasure in that
behalf. And at the arriving of the said horseman at Newcastle, he shall
not only receive money for his route and conduct, but also beside his
wage shall be, by the discretion of our said cousin of Norfolk, so used
and entreated as ye shall not need to doubt of the safe return of the
same, if the casualty of death be not impeached. And herein we make
such sure account of your forwardness as we thereupon have signified
among others to our said cousin this our appointment and commandment.
So shall we make account of you in that behalf, whereof we pray you
fail not.

"Given under our signet at our Palace of Westminster, the 25th day of
September, in the second year of our reign."*

* The original letter is at Oxburgh.


It was in consideration of this or of some other service rendered about
this time that Elizabeth granted to Sir Henry Bedingfeld and to his
heirs for ever, the manor of Caldecot, in Norfolk "with the
impropriation thereof."

An undated manuscript, preserved at Oxburgh, containing a plan of an
itinerary for the queen's progress into Norfolk, would seem to support
the tradition that Elizabeth visited that place. Perhaps she intended
to visit it, for immediately after Walsingham, which then belonged to
the Sidneys, occurs the sentence: "Thence to Oxburgh, Sir Henry
Bedingfelds."* This document is printed in Blomefield's History of
Norfolk, and the date assigned to it is 1578, presumably because this
was the only time at which Elizabeth visited Norfolk. There are,
however, no details of any visit to Oxburgh, and Dr. Jessopp,
considering that the place was quite out of the line of progress, is of
the opinion that she never went there at all.**

* The so-called Queen's room, a large apartment above that in which
Henry VII. undoubtedly slept may, it appears to the present writer,
have been occupied by Elizabeth of York, wife of Henry VII., who, it is
well known, accompanied him on, at least, one pilgrimage to Walsingham.
As she also was Queen Elizabeth, this may account for the tradition,

** One Generation of a Norfolk House, p. 61.


But there are other and more weighty reasons than those of distance for
arriving at this conclusion. From the year 1569, when the foremost
English Catholics attempted to liberate Mary Queen of Scots, the penal
laws against Papists were redoubled in severity, and those who still
clung to the old religion fell into disfavour. Elizabeth did indeed
visit Euston Hall, near Thetford, in 1578, and Mr. Rookwood presumed to
kiss her hand. But the Lord Chamberlain severely reprimanded him for so
doing, sternly bade him stand aside, and charged him with being a
recusant, unfit to be in the presence, much less to touch the sacred
person, of his sovereign. He was required to attend the Council, under
surveillance, and when he reached Norwich, in the queen's train, was
committed to jail.

Many other recusants were treated in 1578 as Rookwood was. Two of the
Lovells, Humphrey Bedingfeld of Quidenham, Sir Henry's brother, one
Parry, and two others, "not worth memory for badness of belyffe," were
confined in Norwich Castle" for obstinate papystrie."*

* Mason, History of Norfolk, p. 150.


"At Norwich, the Queen lodged at the bishop's palace, and spent her
time, as far as the bad weather would allow, in listening to absurd
speeches and witnessing grotesque pageants, but on the 19th August, she
suddenly resolved to go a-hunting in the park of Cossey, five miles
from Norwich, which belonged to Mr. Henry Jerningham, ancestor of the
present Lord Stafford. Once more her host was a recusant, but this time
it would have been too shameless to proceed against him. Mr. Jerningham
had made himself very conspicuous in opposing the abominable attempts
to set aside Mary and Elizabeth as heirs to the Crown at the death of
Edward VI., and in return for his loyalty, had received this very
domain of Cossey at Queen Mary's hands; but for him and his gallantry
twenty years before, Elizabeth herself might never have been on the
throne. So Mr. Jerningham was left unmolested at present, though his
time was to come by-and-bye, and when three days after, the Council met
and made order for the committal to jail of such of the Norfolk gentry
as had not kept their church, and upon whom the hand of power had been
so astutely laid, Mr. Jerningham's name was omitted, though his
kinsman's, Mr. Bedingfeld's, name figures on the list, only to appear
again and again hereafter."*

*One Generation of a Norfolk House, p. 62. Dr. Jessopp is mistaken in
identifying this Mr. Jerningham with the friend and ally of Sir Henry
Bedingfeld, who was associated with him in placing Mary on the throne.
Sir Henry Jerningham died in 1572, aged 63, and Elizabeth's host at
Cossey was his son.


Among the Acts of the Privy Council for 1578, it is stated that:--"This
day [August 24th], there appeared before their lordships, as warned by
the Sheriff of Norfolk, amongst persons refusing to come to the church
within that county, Sir Henry Bedingfeld, Knight, and Edmund Wyndham,
Doctor of the Civil Law, who, standing in their obstinacy in refusing
to come to the church in time of prayer, sermons, and other divine
service, were ordered, as others of the same sort before, at Norwich:
Sir Henry Bedingfeld to be bound in 500 pounds, and Mr. Wyndham in 200
pounds, with the like conditions as they that were bound to remain in
their lodgings at Norwich, as by their obligations remaining in the
Council Chest it may appear. And for that their lordships were informed
that divers of the household servants of Sir Henry Bedingfeld did and
do refuse likewise to come to the church, it was ordered that the Lord
Bishop of Norwich, or some person appointed by him, should visit his
household, and so many of his said servants as should refuse to conform
themselves to come to the church should be discharged by the said
Bishop or his visitors, in that case, from his service."

The Council then wrote to two justices of the peace in Norfolk,
ordering them to discharge Sir Henry's servants "that will not come to
church as is above said, and that they be not maintained by the said
Sir Henry Bedingfeld nor any other of their friends with any exhibition
or otherwise, wheresoever they shall bestow themselves, nor that there
be not any other servants admitted to serve Sir Henry Bedingfeld in any
place or office about him that shall be suspected to be of that
disposition in religion." On receiving an order to present himself
before the Privy Council, Sir Henry, although suffering from illness,
set out for London. This letter, signed by five of the members, met him
on the road:--

"To our loving friend, Sir Henry Bedingfeld, Knight.

"After our hearty commendations. Whereas we are given to understand
that upon some letters heretofore written, you are on the way repairing
hither, forasmuch as we are informed by your son-in-law, Henry
Seckford, that your sickness and infirmity is such as without danger
you may not travel, we are very well contented if you shall not like to
repair up, that you return again to the place where you were committed,
there to remain until such time as further order shall be taken with
you. And so fare you well.

"From Richmond, the 1st Dec. 1578."

Further relief was extended to him, as appears by another letter from
the Council, allowing him to remain in his house till Lady Day, when he
was to appear and answer to the charge of papistry, "unless in the
meantime God shall turn his heart otherwise."

Slight as were the penalties inflicted on Sir Henry when compared with
those which his brothers were called upon to endure, troubles were not
wanting to him in his old age He was not only a prisoner within five
miles of his own house, subject to heavy fines for the privilege of
absenting himself from the new service, but he was liable at any time
to have his house searched* for priests and church-stuff, to have his
household dismissed, and to be called on to endure religious
conferences. He was, moreover, in feeble health, and to complete his
misfortunes, his devoted wife was taken from him. On this occasion a
letter from eight members of the Privy Council was delivered to him:--

* For "the search at Mr. Bedingfeld's house," and the anonymous letter
which led to it, see Calendar of State Payers, Dom. Eliz. 1581-1590, p.
648, No. 76. A copy of a letter found directed to Cromwell accused Sir
Henry of treasonable designs in conjunction with papists and recusants.
"Diligent searches have been made at the house of Mr. Henry
Bedingfelde, but nothing suspicious found."


"To our loving friend, Sir Henry Bedingfeld.

"We commend us unto you. Whereas about three years past, when you were
sent for to have appeared before us, touching your disobedience in
Religion, we were then moved in consideration of your sickness and
infirmity, and the humble suit of Henry Seckford, your son, you being
then in the way hitherward, to licence you to return back unto your own
house, whither you were before committed, there to remain until further
order should be taken with you. And whereas at this time your son has
made like humble suit unto us that you may be suffered to remove from
your said house unto St. Mary's, Wignollen, in Marshland, a house of
your daughter Seckford, there to remain for a season until you may pass
over the grief and remembrance of the lady, your wife, lately deceased,
these are in that respect to give you licence so to do. And therefore
you may, at your liking remove to that place, continuing yourself in
like degree of restraints as you did in your own house, and these shall
be your warrant in that behalf. So fare you well.

"From the Court at Whitehall, 28 of Dec. 1581. Your loving friends."*

* Exactly the same treatment was endured by his descendant Sir Henry
Arundell Bedingfeld in 1713. The following instance affords a proof of
the extraordinary persistence with which the penal laws against
Catholics were enforced 110 years after Elizabeth's death.


"Licence from the justices, August 10, 1713, for Sir Henry Bedingfeld
to go from home for a month.

"Whereas Sir Henry Bedingfeld of Oxburgh, Bart., being a recusant, and
confined to the usual place of his abode, or within the compass of five
miles from the same, and whereas it has been represented to us on the
part of the said Sir Henry Bedingfeld that he has very necessary and
urgent business, which does require his attention at this time, and
whereas the said Sir Henry Bedingfeld has made an oath before us of the
truth of the same, and that he will not make any causeless stay from
his said place of habitation, we therefore, four of his Majesty's
Justices of the Peace for the said county upon examination taken by us
as of the premisses, do give this our licence to the said Sir Henry
Bedingfeld to travel out of the precincts or compass of five miles from
the place of his abode limited by the statute at all times, from the 13
of this instant August, until the thirteenth of September following, by
which time he is to return again to his place of abode at the parish of
Oxburgh, aforesaid. Given under our hand and seal this Loth of August
1713." Signed in the margin, "E. Bacon, T. De Grey, Tho. Wright, Nath.
Life, H. Partridge, Dep. Lieut. I do assent to this licence."

Sir Henry Bedingfeld succumbed to his infirmities in 1583, and was
buried in the Bedingfeld chapel in Oxburgh church, where an elaborate
monument to his memory may still be seen. It is to be regretted that
the loss of the Privy Council Registers for the year 1583 entails also
the loss of any mention of the last days of this celebrated Englishman.



IV. THE CATHOLIC REFORMATION IN GERMANY

In spite of the valiant efforts of isolated Catholic reformers in
Germany, to stem the tide of corruption which threatened to sweep the
Church into a vortex of ruin, for a long time little impression was
made on the vast sea of abuses, and but little permanent good was
effected. It almost seemed as though the Poor Clares of Nuremburg, the
brave Dominicanesses of Strassburg, Johannes Busch, Johannes Geiler,
Cardinal Nicholas of Cusa, St. John Capistran, the Brethren of the
Common Life, and the celebrated author of the Imitation of Christ had
lived and fought, suffered and preached, in vain. They, and some few
others were like brilliant meteors, only making the darkness of the
night more apparent.

The nations were as little responsive to preachers of reform as were
the princes of Europe to the appeals of the Pope for a crusade against
the infidel Turk, who menaced, after his conquest of Constantinople,
the very centre of Christendom. While the citadel was in danger, those
who should have assembled vast cohorts in its defence were either
suffering from the inertia that follows on some kinds of disease, or
were actively employed in spreading the new heresies. Then at last
struck the hour for the dawning of a new day. And here perhaps lies the
solution to the problem why so much energy, self-denial, penance on the
part of the preachers of reform, produced so little result; why such
brave efforts failed to restore, renew and edify the Church. Was she
then incapable of rising to a new life? The answer lies in the words of
her Divine Founder: "My hour is not yet come." Until then, all
reformers preached more or less in the wilderness; for few had ears to
hear. God's hour was assuredly winging its flight, but it would not
come till the Church was almost in extremis; till decay of faith
following on decay of morals threatened her very existence. The
catastrophe was hastened by the fatal pouring of the new wine of the
later Renaissance into the old, now worn-out bottles of Mediaevalism,
thereby paganising Rome and corrupting the College of Cardinals to so
large an extent, that the election to the papacy of a Rodrigo Borgia
was made possible.

Neither the fiery denunciations of Fra Girolamo Savonarola, nor the
cold sarcasms of Erasmus of Rotterdam had a more lasting effect on the
world than had Busch's missionary zeal or Geiler's ascetic discourses.
Then arose Martin Luther, and centered in himself all those scandals
and floating heresies, which for a hundred years had poisoned the
spiritual and intellectual atmosphere. Insidious disease lurking in
dark places was now become a stalking pestilence that braved the
daylight unabashed. Faith was all but moribund. But the Church's
extremity was God's opportunity; His hour had struck at last, and the
spirit of the Lord brooded on the face of the waters.

Then the whole situation was changed. The enemy was not yet crushed,
but formidable hosts were everywhere set in opposition to him. Instead
of isolated efforts there was an almost universal movement towards
reform. Begun in Italy, it spread into every country of Europe.
Seminaries sprang up for the education of priests; St. Philip Neri
became the Apostle of Rome, St. Charles Borromeo that of Milan. The
Order of Theatines was founded, and the Barnabite Order, devoted to the
education of youth was ready to send its members wherever the need was
greatest. Above all, the long-deferred General Council, assembled at
Trent in 1545, gave cohesion to all the various movements that were set
on foot by defining disputed doctrines, and by drawing up a formula
which declared the belief of the Catholic Church on all points attacked
by the new sectaries. The Church was threatened with a dozen heresies,
but so completely did she vindicate her doctrines at the Council of
Trent, that for more than three hundred years no further General
Council was needed. If Italy may boast of the victories achieved by her
great Catholic reformers, France, though somewhat later in the field
had her Bossuet, Bourdaloue, St. Francis of Sales, St. Vincent of Paul,
and many other Catholic champions. To Spain were given St. Ignatius of
Loyola, St. Francis Borgia, St. Francis Xavier, St. Peter of Alcantara,
St. John of the Cross, St. John of God, St. Joseph Calasanctius, St.
Teresa, and others whose names have first added a splendour to their
native land, and have then gone forth to illumine the uttermost ends of
the earth.

St Ignatius died in 1556, but the effect of the Society of Jesus on the
Church was only just beginning. One of the earliest and most important
tasks of his immediate disciples was the formation of the Carmelite nun
Teresa, and her spiritual guidance in the unusual paths she was called
to tread. Even in Catholic Spain hearts had grown cold and minds lax.
The religious houses had long fallen from their first fervour. During
the space of sixteen years St. Teresa founded seventeen convents, all
following the original strict Carmelite rule. As early as 1474 Pope
Eugenius IV. had formed the project of re-establishing the strict
observance of the rule in all religious communities, but the times were
not then favourable for carrying it out. He had therefore approved
provisionally of a mitigated rule for all Carmelite houses, by means of
which discipline was to be restored. The Carmelite general, John
Soreth, made great efforts to enforce it, but his success was partial
and short-lived.

In 1524, when Teresa de Ahumeda was still a child, Clement VII.
addressed a brief to the General Chapter of the Carmelites, assembled
at Venice, commanding them to reform their order. The brief was
cordially received, and the Chapter passed many resolutions all aiming
at the removal of abuses, such as the careless and hasty admission of
members, so that thenceforth no person might be received into the order
without the consent of the provincial, or before the age of fifteen.
Another resolution passed in this Chapter referred to the private
property of the friars; but lest more harm than good should be done by
sudden and violent measures, it was decreed that in every province
certain houses should be set apart for those members who had received
the mitigated rule of Pope Eugenius, and who were therefore considered
as reformed. But together with these houses others should be tolerated
for a season, while the religious were gradually accustomed to a state
of discipline. Those who had not accepted the mitigated rule were to be
allowed temporarily to enjoy their patrimony, as also the emoluments
accruing to them from teaching, preaching, and other services rendered.
There was to be no difference in their treatment, and the religious
habit was to be the same for the reformed and the unreformed brethren.
Subsequent Chapters-General continued to pass similar wise regulations,
but they were by no means promptly carried out; and at Vicenza, in
1539, it was decreed that provincials and friars must undertake the
reform of their convents in the course of one year, in default of which
their subjects were to be released from the obedience they owed them.
Only reformed friars might be elected superiors.*

* Monsignanus, Bullarium, ii. 59 c, 47 b.


At this assembly, the representatives of the Lower Rhine Province were
Theodoric of Gouda, Martin Cuperus, and Eberhard Billick. They
presented a petition praying that the Universities of Mainz and Trier
might be included in the course open to Carmelite students, the reason
being that in order to successfully combat the Lutheran heresies, great
need was felt of men of wide knowledge, possessing degrees high enough
to inspire respect in their opponents. Many students, by reason of the
evil times, were not in a position to meet the expenses attendant upon
a sojourn at Cologne and Louvain, and the living at Mainz and Trier was
cheaper. To this petition the Carmelite general answered by ranking
Cologne first, Louvain second, Mainz third, and Trier fourth, in the
curriculum of studies.

But the progress made in Germany was the reverse of rapid; opposition
was encountered at every step; nevertheless, the resolutions passed at
the Chapter-General at Venice in 1524, had introduced the thin end of
the wedge, and it is apparent from the decrees of the Provincial
Chapter held at Mechlin in 1531, and presided over by the general
himself, that nearly all the houses of the Lower Rhine Province had by
that time accepted the mitigated rule. It was enforced in this Chapter
that if a convent fell away from the reform, the provincial was to
appoint a reformed prior, and to send thither reformed brethren. Friars
who refused the reform were to be banished for ten years. Another
accentuated point was the rule which forbade the possession of private
property. One common purse only was allowed, and thenceforth, no
Carmelite might, under pain of excommunication, keep money in his
possession for more than twenty-four hours. Absolution for an
infringement of this rule could only be obtained from the provincial or
general. Those religious, who at their death were found to possess
property were to be buried in unconsecrated ground. When, a year later,
Theodoric of Gouda presented himself at the Chapter-General held at
Padua, he was able to state that the Lower Rhine Province had joined
the observance, and was entitled to the privileges belonging thereto.

But another and more insidious danger had arisen. In many of the
Carmelite houses of Germany the new doctrines had been more than
favourably received; and at Strassburg, the rector, Tilmann Lyn had
been deprived of his office for having openly preached the Lutheran
heresy. Three other friars of the same house who with him had gone
astray were imprisoned. In vain the friars were forbidden, under pain
of excommunication, to possess or to read books that had been condemned
by the Holy See. Heretical writings continued to find entrance into
many of the religious houses, and were even read aloud in refectories,
and used as text-books by the professors. It must, however, be admitted
that some of these books, including several works of Erasmus which were
also prohibited, would now scarcely come into the category of heretical
writings. Still, many of the diatribes which Erasmus permitted himself
against the religious orders were not in any sense edifying, though
there was much truth in his pungent satire; so that the papal legate
Aleander did not hesitate to declare that the Dutch scholar had done
more to undermine faith than even Luther, and he accused him of being
the fomenter of all the troubles, of subverting the Netherlands, and
all the Rhine district. This may indeed have been the truth indirectly
in spite of the certainty that Erasmus had no intention of playing into
the hands of the Lutherans, whom he hated. But he was a cynic, and a
cynic's eyes are not the best through which to see things. The monks
offended him, and he poured out upon them, not the vials of his wrath
but the sharp vinegar of sarcasm. His favourite, oft-recurring themes,
the ignorance, immorality, and greed to be found in monasteries, the
quarrelsomeness and worldliness of the friars would lead the unwary to
suppose that there was not a religious community left where the rule
was kept and the religious led commonly respectable lives. But even a
slight acquaintance with Erasmus shows us that he is incapable of
justice towards monks and friars. They loved scholasticism, the enemy
which he considered himself born to slay, and there was war to the
knife between him and all upholders of Scotus and Aquinas. The monks of
the Charterhouse, who died the death of martyrs rather than perjure
themselves, win no meed of praise from Erasmus--they were, forsooth,
schoolmen; and the noble Friars-Observants who, when threatened with a
living tomb in the river Thames, for the same cause, calmly replied
that the road to heaven was as near by water as by land, are nothing to
him, for did they not learn their theology of Duns Scotus. Even Henry
VIII. himself at one time begged the Pope's favour for the Observants,
saying that he could not sufficiently express his admiration for their
strict adherence to poverty, for their sincerity, their charity, their
devotion;* but they were Scotists, and Erasmus could not therefore
admire them.

* Henry VIII. to Leo X., Add. MS. 15,387, f. 17; B.M. Printed by Ellis,
3, 1st series, 165.


From his own showing it appears that the Canons Regular of St.
Augustine at Emmaus in Holland led a good life, but he makes no
honourable exception of them when he denounces other houses. He
complains of all monks that they are gluttons and wine-bibbers, utterly
careless of their rule; yet his own plea for returning to the world
after taking his vows is that his health would not stand the fasts and
vigils, the long prayers and the fish diet, things which accord ill
with a reputation for laxity. In a letter to his former prior, he says:
"I left my profession, not because I had any fault to find with it, but
because I would not be a scandal to the order." And again, "My
constitution was too weak to bear your rule."* These are either empty
phrases, or they mean that the life was a strict one.

* Life and Letters of Erasmus, lectures delivered at Oxford by J. A.
Froude, pp. 24, 162.


Nevertheless it would be idle to say that there was not or had not been
a great falling-off in the fervour of monks and friars generally at
this period. As the new doctrines spread, so did also the distaste for
the religious life, and the number of those who renounced their vows
increased yearly. But many, from various causes, soon repented, and
desired to return to the cloister, and it became necessary to legislate
for such contingencies also. Moreover, it was made obligatory on every
prior to arrest notorious apostates, and all those who, without letters
of obedience, or who, abusing them, were found wandering about the
country. They were to be punished conformably to the rule, and if
necessary were to be imprisoned.

One good effect at least resulted from Erasmus's attacks on the
ignorance of monks, and this was the revival of learning in most of the
religious orders. Every inducement was offered by the Carmelite
superiors in the Lower Rhine Province to cultivate a taste for study.
Those who had gone through a three or four years' course of theology
creditably had a distinct right to a post of some dignity, and took
rank immediately after those priests of the order who had celebrated
their jubilee, and before all conventuals who had an inferior record as
to studies. The faithful discharge of offices for a prolonged period
was also rewarded by honourable recognition. The sentiments thus
appealed to may not have been of the loftiest, but it must be
remembered that the reform was to be gradual, and higher motives could
be suggested when the subject was ready for them. The superiors of this
province were supported in all their efforts by the general, who was
bent on a thorough renewal of the religious spirit throughout the
Order; but in the midst of all these righteous aspirations it is a
little startling to find that a decree of the Chapter-General was
needed to put down drinking-bouts in sundry houses of the Rhine
Province.*

* Dr. Alois Postina, Der Karmelit Eberhard Billick. Ein Lebensbild aus
dem 16, Jahrhundert, Freiburg im Breisgau, 1901, p. 25.


In 1541, Eberhard Billick was appointed provincial, and almost
immediately began to visit the houses in his jurisdiction. At Cologne
he found a condition of things sufficient to make the boldest reformer
quail. The Lutherans had entirely gained the upper hand, and a certain
Count William of Neuenar and Mors, who had been for some tine a
follower of the new doctrines, was bent on introducing them by force
into Mors. He first forbade the practise of the Catholic religion among
his tenants, and then tried to seduce the religious. They were
forbidden to say Mass except on Sundays, and then even none outside the
convent were to be admitted to it. Their church was given over to the
Lutherans, and the friars were forced into being present at the
Protestant sermons. Not content with this, Count William inflicted
seven Lutheran beneficiaries upon them, obliging them to lodge and feed
them gratis. Lutheran preachers and school teachers were salaried out
of the convent revenues, which the Count managed by fraud and cunning
to confiscate. That portion of the convent buildings which bordered on
his property he turned into stables for his own horses, so that
entrance to the friar's quarters was open to his servants, while the
Carmelites were themselves forbidden to go in and out on that side.

The new Provincial succeeded in time by dint of courage and firmness,
in getting back all that the Count had seized by force; but other
houses were in as deplorable a condition, and little could be done to
improve matters. Billick appealed to the Emperor, who had taken all the
Carmelite convents in Lower Germany under his protection; but the
Emperor's goodwill surpassed his power to help, the whole of his money
and energy being needed to oppose the Turks, the French, and the Duke
of Cleves.

The greatest danger and difficulty lay in the behaviour of Count
Hermann of Wied, Archbishop and Elector of Cologne. From the outset his
rule had been detrimental to the Church. The best that could be said of
him in his youth was that he was "kind and peace-loving, fond of
hunting, but not particularly learned." Charles V., in a letter to the
landgrave Philip of Hessen, who had joined the Lutherans, says: "How
should the good man be able to reform his diocese? He has no Latin, and
has never said more than three Masses in his life. He does not even
know the Confiteor." Philip replied: "I can assure your Majesty that he
reads German industriously, and interests himself in religious
questions."

Unfortunately, these "religious questions" threw the archbishop into
the arms of the Lutherans, and already in 1536, Aleander considered him
as much lost to the Church as Philip of Hessen himself, who made no
secret of his apostasy. Melancthon was his dear friend already when he
made the acquaintance of Martin Bucer at the Diet of Hagenau in 1540.

Two years later, Archbishop Hermann invited this violent and notorious
heretic to preach in the minster at Bonn. Immediately, Cologne rose up
in protest, and the Cathedral Chapter, the clergy and the Magistrate
presented the archbishop with a remonstrance. Hermann replied by
sending Melancthon to support Bucer at Bonn, and thus, by entrusting
the work of reform to men whose sole aim was to subvert Catholic
doctrine and to disorganise Christian society, proved himself faithless
to the solemn promise he had made neither to introduce religious
novelties into his diocese, nor to abolish customs founded on Catholic
tradition.

The Chapter, fully alive to the critical nature of the situation, drew
up a memorandum, dated 5th February 1543, in which they showed good
reasons why Bucer could not be tolerated as a minister of religion in
the diocese. His broken vows, his marriage, his open profession of
Luther's doctrines, proved sufficiently that he was no longer a member
of the Catholic Church. Further, his preaching at Strassburg had
resulted directly in the wholesale destruction of images and altars,
and ultimately in the abolition of the Mass in that place. The
memorandum went on to affirm that, in patronising such a man the
Archbishop was acting in direct disobedience to the Pope and to the
Emperor.

Bucer's answer to these objections was devised in such a manner as to
cause his opponents some embarrassment. It was written in the Swiss
dialect, an unknown tongue to the clergy of Cologne, as well as to the
university. Nevertheless, before long, an epitome of its purport was
furnished to the Chapter, and the refutation of the doctrines therein
set forth was entrusted to the Carmelite provincial, Billick.

The two champions were personally not unknown to each other, as they
had met at the Diets of Worms and Regensburg, where Billick had made a
point of studying the Strassburg heresiarch carefully. The Carmelite
now skilfully exposed the weakness of Bucer's arguments, together with
his frequent misinterpretation of Scripture and the Fathers, Billick
showing himself to be an experienced polemical writer; but the taste
and tone of his book are repugnant to modern ideas, and betray the same
acrimony which characterises the writings of Luther against Erasmus,
and vice versa. Accusations of hatred, cunning, lying, slandering, and
double-dealing, are cast like a hail of bullets, with no especial aim
at any of Bucer's arguments in particular. Interspersed with much able
criticism are choice epithets of abuse and reflections on Bucer's
personal character, which, although perfectly in accordance with
sixteenth century methods of controversy, are quite beside the mark,
and certainly not such as to promote peace in any age.

What the Church in Germany needed at this juncture, was not so much a
fiery defender of the faith, or a scholar to taunt the heretics in
finely-pointed sarcasm with their want of learning, as a saint,
demonstrating in his own life the beauty of holiness, while laying
aside polemics, he expounded the philosophy of Catholic doctrine. The
need for reform was patent to all; many, like the zealous Carmelite
provincial, were already putting their hands to the plough. The
movement had been set on foot, but it lacked an apostle to lead and
govern it. Such a man was at that moment being formed at the University
of Cologne-the second apostle of Germany, as St. Boniface had been the
first-Blessed Peter Canisius.

Canisius was a native of Nymwegen in the Low Countries, and was born on
8th May 1521. Having studied at Paris and Orleans, he became tutor to
the sons of Rene Duke of Lorraine, whose wife was Philippine of
Guelderland. From an early age Peter had desired to consecrate himself
to God in the priesthood, and his father having given his consent, the
young man proceeded to Cologne for his course of theology and civil and
canon law. No sooner did he appear in the lecture rooms than he
attracted universal attention. It was not merely the clearness and
conciseness of his reasoning, nor altogether the humility of his
bearing, but perhaps the mingled charm of each that roused the interest
of professors and students alike. That interest led them to watch him
closely, and they not only noticed that he seemed altogether
unconscious of the plaudits which he excited, but they discovered that
he was in the habit of imposing privations on himself, in order to have
money to give to poor students, that these might be better fed and
clothed, and more amply furnished with books. It was soon related of
him that he frequently went out of his way to instruct, counsel, and
rescue those (and there were many of them at Cologne) who had fallen
upon evil ways. Broad-minded, large-hearted, enlightened beyond his
companions, and possessing a strong and well balanced character, it
needed no great gift of prophecy to foresee that Peter Canisius would
do great things in the future.

In the meanwhile, Father Peter Faber, the first associate of St.
Ignatius, was at Mainz, whither he had been sent by Pope Paul III. to
counteract the spread of the new doctrines by all the means in his
power. His reputation for holiness Was so great in the Society of
Jesus, that St. Francis Xavier invoked him when in danger from a storm
at sea, and inserted his name in the Litany of the Saints while he was
yet living. At Mainz Father Faber gave the Spiritual Exercises of St.
Ignatius, and obtained many wonderful conversions.

His fame soon reached Cologne, where Canisius, yet uncertain as to his
future, was praying, studying, and exercising himself in all good
works. Suddenly, it became clear to him that his vocation would be made
known to him through Father Peter Faber. He hastened to Mainz, and at
their first interview Canisius was convinced that he was called to join
the new Society. He made the Spiritual Exercises, and on the fourth day
bound himself by a vow to do so. He returned to Cologne as a novice,
and continued to live much as before, pursuing his theological studies
and making a deep impression on all those with whom he came in contact.
Associated with two other novices, also university students-the
Spaniards Alfonsus Alvarez and John of Arragon--he received a common
rule of life from Faber, and in their zeal they soon exceeded it. They
preached, instructed children in Christian doctrine, begged alms for
the poor from door to door, nursed the sick in the hospitals, and, in
short, seized every opportunity of self-denial and humiliation.

When Faber heard of all this he wrote to Canisius, commending the
charity of the trio, but reminding them at the same time that study was
their paramount duty, and would lead to more valuable work in the
future than anything they could then do for souls.

"As obedience requires you to finish your course of theology," he
wrote, "you must not neglect it, thinking to do more by succouring your
neighbour in his temporal necessities."

Soon Faber came himself to Cologne, and lodged with the Carthusians,
those valiant sons of St. Bruno, whose boast it is never to have quite
departed from the spirit of their founder.

On the 8th May 1545, his twenty-fourth birthday, Peter Canisius made
the three simple vows of the Society and the same year was ordained
priest. By this time his reputation as a Catholic reformer was as great
as his reputation for learning. His capacity for work was prodigious.
He lectured twice daily; every Sunday he preached in one of the
churches, great crowds flocking to hear him. At home, every hour was
occupied either in teaching or in receiving those who came to him for
advice and help in their doubts. He answered them all with so much
insight, wisdom, gentleness, and humility, that even Lutherans dropped
the usual epithets, and spoke of him with respect. Every free moment
was devoted to literary work, which also obtained a certain celebrity.

But to all these strenuous efforts the Archbishop Elector Hermann von
Wied persistently remained a stranger. Relations between himself and
his Chapter were strained to the utmost. A deputation of his clergy had
waited upon him and solemnly entreated him to retrace his steps, and to
cancel the novelties he had introduced. On his refusal, they declared
that they would with a clear conscience, and for fear of incurring the
divine wrath if they further delayed, proceed by all legitimate means
to remove so grievous a scandal. Then the Chapter, including
representatives of the lower ranks of the clergy and the university,
made a public protest, and drew up appeals to the Pope and the Emperor.
They at once informed the archbishop of these measures, and again
attempted before taking irrevocable steps to bring about a peaceful
solution. But all was useless; and, forced to extremities, they
solicited for their appeal the support of other dioceses and learned
academies, in order to obtain more speedy relief. The best and most
distinguished of the bishops and clergy, as well as the universities of
the whole province, joined in the appeal, and the University of
Ingolstadt also signified its intention of seconding them.

The archbishop on his part was also careful to procure himself allies.
As Elector of Cologne he summoned the Landtag, and its members declared
themselves in his favour. The landgrave, Philip of Hessen, to whom
Luther had given licence to commit bigamy, and other Protestant princes
naturally promised him their support, and the Schmalkaldian League did
likewise.

The Catholics of Cologne agitated that the case might be brought before
the Reichstag at Worms, to which they had sent their representative,
the Dominican, Johann Pessel.

But the archbishop appealed to a General Council, or rather to a
National Synod, to be held in Germany and to be entirely independent of
the Pope.

At this juncture Eberhard Billick wrote one of his most violent letters
to Pessel, attacking the counter appeal of the archbishop which would
shortly be presented to the Reichstag, and which was calculated by its
affectation of piety to deceive even the elect. But let them be on
their guard. It would be seen that Hermann despised the Pope, the
Emperor, and the Oecumenical Council already assembled at Trent. He set
his own authority above all councils, although they had been instituted
by the common consent of Christendom, and he appealed to a lawless,
headless council which might only meet at Bonn or at Schmalkald, in
order that it might be unrestrained by any authority whatever. There
was, continued the Carmelite, no end to the archbishop's innovations.
In defiance of all justice and precedent he had transferred the Chapter
to Bonn, where people and preachers were split up into parties, and
persecuted each other with persistent malice. This he had done, not
because there was any greater safety at Bonn than at Cologne, where
senate, clergy, and people lived in peace and unity as before, and
where his friends in the Chapter might act with all freedom,* but
because at Bonn he was sure of a majority in his favour, for loyal
Catholics, in spite of his safe-conduct, would not go there. By this
stratagem it would appear as if all ranks in the diocese had consented
to his measures.

* Others maintained, however, that some of the canons known to be
inclined towards Lutheranism had been threatened with death.


Billick went on to complain bitterly that the sentence against the
archbishop announced by the papal nuncio, Verallo, as imminent, had not
yet been passed. "Every postponement of the imperial mandate," he
wrote, "means a weakening of our cause and a strengthening of that of
our opponents. At Worms they speak fair, and assume a supplicating
attitude; but at Cologne they go about their business boldly. Paintings
are scratched off the walls of the churches, statues are hurled from
their pedestals, heretical preachers are multiplied and forced upon the
Catholics against their will. Four days ago, the archbishop attacked
the parish priest of Bruhl, because he still said Mass, and forbade him
to do so in future. And much more is done in this enormous diocese
which entirely escapes our notice." In conclusion, Billick implored the
Dominican to do his utmost with the Emperor, the Cardinal of Augsburg,
the Apostolic Nuncio, and the other Catholic authorities in order that
the mandate might be issued without further delay, adding, "Gropper,
the indefatigable champion of our cause, is ill, otherwise he would
have sent a learned and luminous disquisition on this subject."

At last, the Emperor was moved to abandon the passive and
procrastinating attitude he had hitherto assumed; and towards the close
of the Reichstag he answered the Cologne appellants by citing the
archbishop to appear within thirty days, and answer the charges of
innovation brought against him. In the meanwhile he was to cancel all
the novelties he had introduced into the diocese.

Charles V. on his way to the Netherlands stopped at Cologne, and in a
personal interview with Hermann, represented to him the terrible
consequences that would ensue if he persisted in his disobedience.

The archbishop demanded a short time to consider and to consult with
his advisers. His answer, written on 19th August, after the Emperor's
departure, was to the effect that he could not change his opinions. He
was then cited to appear at Brussels within the space of thirty days.
At the same time Paul III. sent him a brief, commanding him and his
adherents to justify their conduct at Rome within sixty days.

Hermann paid no attention to either of these citations, but with
renewed zeal continued to advance the Protestant reformation. On the
8th January 1546, Verallo suspended him, and confiscated the revenues
of the diocese. The archbishop made a solemn protest, but showed no
sign of yielding, and on the 16th April, the Pope proceeded to his
ex-communication, at the same time depriving him of all his
ecclesiastical dignities, offices and benefices.

By a special brief of 3rd July, Hermann's coadjutor, Adolf von
Schauenburg, was made administrator of the archdiocese, and Gropper and
Billick were appointed to examine the deposed archbishop with regard to
his attitude towards the Catholic religion. The result was
unsatisfactory, but the Emperor could not be induced to take any
immediate steps against Hermann, his whole attention being directed
towards crushing the Schmalkaldian League. It was not till November
that the archbishop was officially informed of his excommunication,
when he made a further protest, declared the Pope incompetent to judge
him, and again appealed to a German Council. The time now seemed ripe
for putting pressure on Charles V. to carry out the Pope's sentence.
The imperial arms had been victorious over the league, and the
Catholics of Cologne commissioned Billick to proceed to the camp, and
to petition the emperor to formally depose the archbishop.

The biographers of Blessed Peter Canisius for the most part claim him
as the hero of this expedition, which was in fact entrusted to several
delegates, of whom the principals were the veteran Carmelite
provincial, and Johann von Isenburg. Canisius was deputed to go first
to Liege, and to beg that its bishop, George of Austria, son of
Maximilian I., and uncle to the Emperor, would facilitate their
journey, the country through which they would have to pass being
invested with the enemy's troops. During the time which he spent at
Liege, Canisius completely won the heart of the prince-bishop, who
ordered him to preach in his cathedral and in his private chapel,
expressing himself greatly edified with what he had heard. His visit
being unavoidably prolonged, Canisius gave the Spiritual Exercises,
took part in theological conferences with the Lutherans, visited the
sick in the hospitals, and catechised the children. Crowds followed him
wherever he went, and there was but one opinion of his learning,
eloquence, and charity.

It is probable that on his return to Cologne, having given an account
of his mission, he started with the other delegates for Worms.

Writing to the coadjutor Adolf, on 6th December, Billick says that at
Mainz they heard that all the roads were occupied by the enemy. In
order to avoid all appearance of an embassy they left their baggage
behind them at Mainz, and being advised by the vicar-general, Scholl,
the Carmelite separated from his companions, and hastened on alone to
Worms to present his letters to the Dean of St. Andrew's. Here he lay
hidden for four days, in the greatest anxiety and doubt as to his
further progress. Neither he nor his advisers could hit on a safe mode
of continuing the journey, as it was known that separate parties of
defeated Schmalkaldians were making their retreat good by various roads
back to the Rhine. To add to his alarm and embarrassment Billick
discovered that his horse had been rendered useless by a mysterious
wound, so that he had reason to think he had been betrayed. Just then,
however, he received information that the imperialists were in hot
pursuit of the Schmalkaldians, and having bought another horse from a
Jew, he set out for Speyer. At Speyer he fell in with a nobleman
belonging to the imperial army on his way back to the camp, and Billick
joined him, without however revealing his name or his mission, so
necessary was it to regard every stranger as a possible enemy.

At last the road to the Emperor was open, and the delegates, who all
arrived simultaneously at Krailsheim on the 5th December, were received
by Cardinal Granvelle. The object of their embassy was then speedily
attained. Charles V. issued a mandate, ordering the Landtag to assemble
at Cologne on the 24th January following; and at the date fixed two
imperial commissioners appeared to conduct the proceedings.

On the same day the coadjutor Adolf was inducted as archbishop, in
spite of the opposition of a large number of the representatives of the
Landtag, who, however, gave in their adhesion by the end of the month.
Hermann still offered a futile resistance, but on 28th February 1547
was at last forced from a position that had become untenable. He died
on the 15th August 1552.

During these proceedings Peter Canisius had attracted the attention of
Cardinal Otto Truchsess, who desired to have him as his second
theologian at the Council of Trent, Father Le Jay having already been
sent there as first theologian to that prelate. The cardinal, in a
letter to St. Ignatius, laid stress on the circumstance of Peter's
intimate acquaintance with the state of religion in Germany, and on his
being able therefore to suggest to the Council the best means of
meeting the prevalent evils. These reasons had great weight with St.
Ignatius, and scarcely had the young Jesuit returned to Cologne, when
he received orders to set out for Trent. Great was the lamentation
among the burghers of Cologne. All whom he met in the streets greeted
him with tears and supplications not to depart out of their midst. His
leaving, they declared, would mean triumph to the enemies of the
Church. The university conferred on him unanimously the title of doctor
of divinity as a proof of their gratitude, esteem, and regret at his
loss. The clergy and senate presented him with two precious relics--the
heads of two of the martyred companions of St. Ursula.

At Trent Canisius found four of his religious brethren, and joined them
at their lodgings in the hospital. Here the five Jesuits followed the
special rule of life which St. Ignatius had sent to them. "Three things
I wish you to bear in mind," he wrote:--

"(1) at the sessions of the Council the greatest glory of God, and the
general good of the Church; (2) outside the Council your fundamental
principle to labour for the salvation of souls, a matter that lies
especially near my heart in this your journey; (3) when at home not to
neglect yourselves." He recommended them to behave as prudently as
possible at the Council, not to speak hastily, and to be ever on the
side of peace. Every evening they were to confer with each other on the
day's proceedings, and to make resolutions for the morrow. "Moreover,"
he continued, "you will allow no opportunity to escape you of acquiring
merit in the service of your neighbour. You must always be on the watch
to hear confessions, to preach to the people, to instruct the little
ones, to visit the sick." In their sermons they were to avoid
controverted dogmas, and to lay stress on all that appertained to the
reform of morals, and obedience to the Church.

The meetings of the Council being adjourned till 1550, Canisius was
called to Rome, where he remained for five months, under the personal
guidance of St. Ignatius himself, who submitted him to the most
humiliating trials in order to prove his virtue. He sent him to beg and
to preach in the most frequented parts of the city, and to nurse the
sick in the hospitals, where he was day and night at the beck and call
of exacting officials, who set him to perform the most loathsome tasks,
and often curtailed his sleep and food. St. Ignatius would then cause
inquiries to be made at the hospitals concerning the behaviour of his
novice under this kind of treatment.

In the spring of 1548, Canisius was sent with eleven companions to
Messina, where the Viceroy, Don Juan de Vega, had founded a college. On
the eve of their departure St. Ignatius put to them four questions in
writing. Canisius answered the questions thus:--

1. "I am ready, with the help of God's grace, to remain here or to go
to Sicily, to India, or wherever it may be that obedience requires me.

2. "If I am sent to Sicily I affirm that I will accept with joy
whatever office is conferred on me, even should it be that of porter,
cook, or gardener.

3. "I am ready to learn or to teach in any department of science,
although hitherto I may have been quite unskilled in it.

4. "I will regard as best for me whatever my superiors may decide to do
with me, whether they entrust me with any office or with none. I
promise this day, the 5th February, for my whole life never to demand
anything for myself concerning my lodging, office or any other similar
thing, but once for all I leave the guidance of my soul, and every care
for my body in the complete submission of my judgment and will, to my
father in God, the Rev. Father General, 1548. Peter Canisius of
Nymwegen."

Hereupon St. Ignatius appointed him professor of rhetoric at Messina,
and Canisius wrote to his friends at Cologne: "As I am useless for any
spiritual office I am entrusted with the insipid department of belles
lettres. I teach rhetoric for which I have little aptitude, but I take
pains to form these good youths, and am always ready, with God's help,
to do all that obedience requires of me."

After a fruitful year, during which he had learned Italian, and having
preached in that language, had obtained some wonderful conversions from
sin, he was recalled to Rome, where he laid his four solemn vows* in
the hands of St. Ignatius. Immediately afterwards he was told to
prepare for his apostolate in Germany.

* The first three of the solemn vows taken by the Jesuits are those of
poverty, chastity, and obedience. The fourth vow is the promise to go
wherever the Pope may send them.


William IV., Duke of Bavaria, surnamed the valiant, on account of his
faithful adherence to the Catholic Church, at a time when so many of
the reigning princes of Germany fell away, saw, with distress and
alarm, the daily increasing dangers to which his beloved fatherland was
a prey. Even in the college which he had himself founded at Ingolstadt,
heresies were steadily gaining the upper hand, and he besought St.
Ignatius to send him learned men, imbued with the apostolic spirit, to
stay the progress of error.

The Church was not wanting at this time in men of learning and piety.
Theologians, such as Cardinal Cajetan, Gropper of Cologne, Eck of
Ingolstadt, Cochlaeus, and others, had a European reputation. The first
members of the Society of Jesus were all saints and scholars. Lainez,
Salmeron, Lefevre, Faber, Le Jay, Bobadilla, were formed for the
exigencies of the time; but for the special work required of him,
Canisius effaces them all, or rather, gathers up in his own character
each of the great qualities which they possessed. His strength,
moreover, was equal to his enormous task. Westphalia, Bavaria, Saxony,
Bohemia, Austria, Franconia, Suabia, Moravia, Tirol, Switzerland, from
the falls of the Rhine to its source in the Alps, both banks of the
Danube, from Freiburgim-Breisgau to Pressburg, the banks of the Main
and of the Vistula--all this was the scene of his labours during a
period of fifty-four years; and within these limits, it is an
incontrovertible fact that there is no city or district still remaining
Catholic but owes its faith to him.

St Ignatius answered the demand of the Duke of Bavaria by sending
Fathers Le Jay, Salmeron, and Peter Canisius, the three most
distinguished men of his Society. On the way to Germany they stopped at
Bologna, in order that the two first might receive the degree of
doctor, Canisius, as we know, being already a graduate of Cologne. The
German heretics prided themselves so much on the few individuals in
their ranks who had attained to it, that it was important to provide
them with opponents whom they might meet in controversy on equal
grounds. At Munich Duke William welcomed them, assuring them that
nothing lay nearer to his heart than the maintenance of the Catholic
religion in his states, but that heresy had already taken possession of
many of his towns and villages, and had even ventured to lift its head
in the University of Ingolstadt. The three missionaries proceeded at
once to that place, where they were received by the principal
dignitaries of the University.

A few days later they began their lectures: Salmeron, with a commentary
on the Epistle of St. Paul to the Romans; Canisius, with a dissertation
on the Sentences of Peter Lombard; Le Jay, with an exposition of the
Psalms. From the beginning their success was assured, but in a few
months the whole work devolved on Canisius, Le Jay being sent to the
Diet of Augsburg, Salmeron going to support Lainez, at the re-opened
Council of Trent, as the Pope's theologian.

So great was the confidence which Canisius inspired, that already, in
1550, the University, by unanimous consent, elected him its rector.
Humility prompted him to refuse the office, but St. Ignatius bade him
accept it. The need for drastic changes in various departments was only
too apparent; Canisius not only secured the good he aimed at, but by
his tact escaped the odium which so frequently attaches to the crusader
against time-honoured abuses. As he accepted none of the emoluments
belonging to his offices, he was the more free to insist on the perfect
probity with which the administration of the funds of all offices
should be conducted.

He next tools away from the students all heretical books, and obtained
from Duke William a mandate, forbidding the booksellers to sell such.
He abolished gambling, to which the students had been much addicted. He
settled disputes between them and their professors, and the ancient
rules and regulations concerning studies ceased to be a dead letter.
His words animated his hearers with a love of work, creating a stimulus
and a desire to excel. He re-established the unjustly discredited
syllogistic form of argument, and reverted to the learning of the
Schools in its primitive purity, deprived of the excrescences with
which would-be scholars had disfigured it. Lastly, he succeeded in
freeing the University from every reproach of immorality and license,
and this was, perhaps, his most signal victory at Ingolstadt. The
annals of the University abundantly testify to the greatness of the
work accomplished.

At the end of his six months' rectorship, Canisius gave an account of
his administration, and declined the chancellorship then offered to
him. Ingolstadt, in that short space of time, had been transformed, and
in order to perpetuate the benefits conferred on it, the Duke resolved
to found a college to be handed over to the sons of St. Ignatius.

Next to Bavaria, Austria was to share in the blessings which the very
presence of Canisius seemed to draw down from Heaven, but the whole
German-speaking world clamoured for his possession. The Bishop of
Saxony entreated him to come and change the deplorable state of his
diocese. Duke Albert, son and successor of William IV., stoutly
maintained that he was needed at Ingolstadt, and that he could not
suffer him to leave it; while St. Ignatius was besieged with demands
for the services of his most learned disciple. The Prince-Bishop of
Freising and the Bishop of Eichstadt each claimed him as his theologian
at the Council of Trent. Ferdinand, King of the Romans, urged that "the
Light of Germany" should be instantly sent to the capital of the
Austrian dominions, then plunged in the darkness of heresy. Pope Julius
III. solved the difficulty by desiring that he should proceed at once
to Vienna, and St. Ignatius softened the blow to Duke Albert in these
words: "The formal demand of his Holiness obliges me to send Father
Canisius to Vienna, but without taking him absolutely from your
Highness; I am merely lending him to the King of the Romans for a time,
after which he shall return to Ingolstadt."

The capital of Austria had fallen a complete prey to heresy. For twenty
years not a single priest had been ordained there; religious vocations
were no longer heard of. Scarcely the twentieth part of the population
had remained Catholic. Three hundred country parishes near the city
were entirely without priests. The University, instead of providing a
remedy, aggravated the existing evils by a teaching that was more or
less heterodox. Society, moreover, was rotten to the core, and needed
to be entirely reconstructed. Such was the condition of things when, at
the call of the feeble but devout Ferdinand I., Blessed Peter Canisius
arrived at Vienna in March 1552. Thirteen of his religious brethren had
preceded him by nearly a year, and had opened a college which already
promised well.

Canisius began by preaching sermons at court, and to the people, by
catechising children, and by seizing every possible opportunity of
doing good. Then the plague broke out, and he devoted himself to the
stricken. The Pope proclaimed a jubilee, and Canisius profited by the
occasion to vindicate the honour of indulgences. His method everywhere
seems to have been to do the next, the obvious thing, whatever it might
be, and to throw himself heart and soul into it. Not content with his
work in the city, he evangelised the country places. The poorest
hamlets attracted him most, and as he went on his way, he instructed,
consoled, heard the confessions of a life-time, gave the sacraments to
the living and the dying, and brought back many hundreds of lost sheep
to the fold. He continued to work thus without a break during the
winter months, among people who were Christian but in name,
intemperance, ignorance, and long neglect, having brutalised them
almost beyond human reach. But where he passed, every village changed
its aspect; conversions little short of miraculous marked his progress
everywhere. Words that from the mouth of another might have returned
unto him void, uttered by Canisius carried compunction into the hardest
hearts. It was his sanctity, his entire abnegation of self and
whole-hearted dependence on the Divine Will, far more than his
learning, vigour, or energy that gave his words wings, and worked
wonders among this forsaken and degraded country folk; and his charity
was such that he would have been well content to have laboured among
them for the rest of his life.

But meanwhile Vienna was suffering from his absence, and all sorts and
conditions of men clamoured for his return. The episcopal see having
become vacant, the king besought the Pope and St. Ignatius that it
might be conferred on Father Canisius. But the utmost he could obtain
after long importunity was that Canisius should administer the affairs
of the diocese for one year, pending the election of a bishop, with the
proviso that he should not touch a single farthing of the rich revenues
belonging to the see, which he was to govern as a simple religious.

The arrangement was one admirably adapted to the restoration of order
in the existing state of chaos, while no sacrifice of its discipline
was forced on the Society by the promotion of one of its members to
rank and dignity.

Canisius was afterwards made Dean of the University, in the hope that
he would do for it what he had already done for Ingolstadt, and he set
about the work in the same masterly fashion that distinguished all his
schemes of reform. His first act was to obtain a royal decree, limiting
the admission of professors to those who had submitted themselves to a
rigorous examination in religious doctrine, and had given irrefragable
proofs of orthodoxy. The same conditions were in future to be exacted
of all who presented themselves for degrees. The university teemed with
Lutheran literature; it was swept away by the same inexorable
root-and-branch measures that had been so successfully employed at
Ingolstadt.

The next care of the reformer was to petition the king for a seminary
wherein the ranks of the clergy, thinned almost to extinction, might be
reinforced by men carefully trained to a due appreciation of their high
calling. The result was the foundation of the seminary of priests of
noble family, recruited mainly from the college which the Jesuits had
opened at Vienna, and to which had flocked students from all the great
families of Hungary, Bohemia, Poland, etc. In conjunction with this
seminary, St. Ignatius, about the same tune, founded the celebrated
German College in Rome, for the regeneration of Germany by means of a
clergy that should be as learned as it was morally irreproachable.

In the midst of his multifarious occupations, Canisius continued his
sermons at court, in the Cathedral, and in the principal churches of
Vienna. Lutherans frequented them largely, and some, touched by the
power of his doctrine and eloquence, asked him for conferences, which
he gladly accorded them. Among these were two preachers of some
celebrity, pillars of Protestantism, who defied him to answer their
arguments in a public disputation. He accepted the challenge, and the
day, place, and hour were fixed. A great concourse of people, composed
largely of the new sectaries, were assembled, prepared to swell the
expected triumph of their champions. The two heretical doctors held
their dissertations, one after the other, and sat down amid the
applause of their sympathisers. Then Canisius stood up with religious
modesty and humility, his bearing expressive of the calmness and
benevolence of one who has the whole Catholic Church, past and present,
on his side. His prodigious memory and profound knowledge enabled him
to refute easily every charge brought by his adversaries, whom he
completely crushed with the overwhelming consistency of his logic. They
both acknowledged themselves defeated; one returned to the Catholic
Church, and a few months later entered the Society of Jesus, of which
he remained an edifying member till his death; the other became a more
determined advocate of heresy than before, and swore to avenge his
defeat by a persistent persecution of the Jesuits.

Nor were enemies wanting on any side; the more converts the Jesuits
made, the greater was the hatred they inspired. Calumnies were sown
broadcast, and the life of Father Canisius was in constant danger.
Ferdinand, warned of a plot to murder the holy man, obliged him,
greatly to his discomfiture, to accept a bodyguard whenever he went
out. But the work of reform and conversion went on steadily, and from
all parts of Germany, bishops, princes, and governors sought to obtain
the presence of the illustrious apostle. "I am ready," he wrote in this
regard to St. Ignatius, "to go wherever obedience calls me, and to work
for the salvation of souls however abandoned they may be, whether in
Poland, Lithuania, Russia, Tartary, or China, wherever I am sent."

He was sent to Prague, perhaps the most God-forsaken spot in the whole
empire. Every imaginable sect had accumulated in Bohemia during the
preceding twenty years. Scarcely a vestige of Catholicism remained, and
Hussites, Wicklifites, Vaudois, Lutherans, Zwinglians, and various
other offshoots of the principal sects, were busy relegating each other
in eloquent terms to eternal damnation, when the arrival of Catholic
missionaries gave the signal for a coalition against the common enemy
of them all. At Prague itself, where Canisius was charged to found a
college with the injunction not to leave Bohemia until it should be
solidly established and in a flourishing condition, the Hussites
outnumbered the others. Scarcely had he arrived and set to work, when
the Duke of Bavaria, reminding St. Ignatius that Canisius had only been
lent to Austria, claimed him, at least temporarily, for the foundation
of the college which the Society was to establish at Ingolstadt. The
claim was admitted to be just, and accordingly the affairs of Prague
could only be proceeded with four months later, when Canisius returned
from Germany, having been made provincial.

It was the beginning of Lent 1555, and on the 21st April twelve priests
sent to him from Rome by St. Ignatius, arrived to second him in his
perilous undertaking. The first time the Jesuits appeared in the
streets they were saluted with handfuls of mud cast at them by the city
urchins, who had been bribed to insult them. The cry "Dogs of Jesuits"
(a play upon the word Canisius) followed them wherever they went.
Father Peter was himself assailed with a large stone hurled through the
window of the church as he stood at the altar saying Mass. A plot was
formed to throw the whole community one by one into the Moldau, as they
passed over the bridge that connected the old and the new town; and
ruffians, who had received a part of their reward in advance, were
stationed in the middle of the bridge to waylay them. But a timely
edict issued by the Archduke of Bohemia threatened with the most severe
penalties whoever should raise a hand against any member of the
Society, or even treat any one of them disrespectfully. He went still
further, and sent a detachment of guards to the college daily, with
orders to accompany each of the priests wherever he went, and in
sufficient numbers to prevent any attack.

Added to the open enmity and fierce hatred which they inspired, the
Jesuits had to encounter the jealousy of the University professors, who
would have been willing enough that they should preach, but who, on the
opening of their college, did all they could to hamper them and
prejudice people against them.

The reputation of the Society for teaching was great all over Germany.
Wherever a college was established by them, it immediately attracted
students from all parts, and it was perhaps natural that other
educational institutions should fear for their own existence. But the
pettiness and meanness with which this fear was expressed at Prague
resulted for the Jesuits in a penury so abject, that for many months
they had nothing to eat but bread and cheese, and nothing to drink but
water from their own well. For several days they were even prevented
from going out for want of suitable garments. Nevertheless, however
much they might have to suffer in any one place, struggling through a
painful existence to the end in view, the work of reform went steadily
forward.

About this time, the cathedral at Regensburg was in need of a preacher;
the Diet was about to assemble in that city, all the princes and
electors of the empire were to take part in it, and the new sectaries
were expected in great numbers, in order to wrench, if it might be,
such concessions from the authorities as they had not yet been able to
obtain. The chapter therefore appealed to Father Canisius, and besought
him to throw himself into this important breach. Realising all that was
at stake, he started at once for Regensburg.

His first appearance in the cathedral pulpit was a splendid testimony
to the opinion in which he was held. The vast building was filled with
a brilliant throng, on the fringe of which the people hung in dense
crowds overflowing into the streets. In a letter to Father Lainez (who
had succeeded St. Ignatius as General of the Society) in September
1556, Canisius describes his efforts as successful in supporting and
strengthening the persecuted Catholics, but he goes on to say that the
Lutheran representatives at the Diet let loose a string of calumnies
against him, and did all they could to poison the minds of the weak and
simple. But for the States of the Empire they would have cast him out
of the city as one so dangerous to the Protestant cause that they
declared it would be wrecked altogether if Canisius continued to preach
there.

However, continue he did during the whole of the sessions, save for a
short interval of absence. In this interval he visited Innsbruck, in
which town a college of the Society was nearing completion; and
Augsburg, whose bishop, his old friend the celebrated Otto Truchsess,
desired to consult him on the affairs of his diocese. There,
overwhelmed with his almost superhuman labours, Canisius fell ill. He
desired to be taken to the college at Ingolstadt, and Cardinal
Truchsess accompanied him thither, while the Duke of Bavaria sent him
his physicians. Thanks to their skill and to the enforced rest of his
mental and physical powers, he soon recovered, and was able on the 1st
December to return to his post at Regensburg. On all the Sundays of
Advent he preached at the cathedral, but as it could not contain the
vast concourse of people who crowded to hear him, he was obliged to
preach three times in the week also. From the pulpit he went to the
confessional, and when he returned to his lodging he was besieged by
those who came to seek his advice-princes, concerning the interests of
religion in their dominions, prelates, in regard to the reform of their
dioceses, or to their own spiritual needs. The King of the Romans, and
the Duke of Bavaria often sent for him to confer with him, and all
admired the humility, simplicity, and patience with which he listened,
no less than the frankness and freedom from human respect with which he
proffered his advice. But time was wanting for all the demands made
upon him; and that all might be satisfied he drew up for the use of
bishops a short treatise on the means of reforming the clergy, and of
introducing good morals among their flocks.

The Diet of Regensburg ended in nothing but resolutions to continue the
controversy at Worms, and fearing the objections of Canisius, who was
known to feel great repugnance towards these public conferences with
heretics which never came to any practical conclusion, Ferdinand sought
to anticipate his refusal by obtaining a promise from Father Lainez
that so able a defender of Catholic doctrine should also be present.

Canisius had already written to the general thus:--

"Knowing as I do my poverty of intellect, my great want of aptitude,
and my incapacity, I confess that I should like to run away from this
place, and would rather go and beg in India than involve myself in
those dangerous disputes, out of which nothing can come but perpetual
disgrace to religion, and great harm to the rights of the Church. But
the Lord God will make known to me His will by His servant my Superior,
and when I know it I shall have no further fear, but shall appear with
boldness in the enemy's camp; for all my confidence and all my strength
are in obedience. I can be nothing else but a beast of burden in the
house of the Lord all the days of my life."

Father Lainez shared to the full the opinion of Canisius as to the
uselessness of these conferences, which were exacted by the Lutherans
in the hope of wresting something to their own temporal advantage, and
the Pope differed from neither in his estimation of the small amount of
good to be hoped from them. But as the Emperor was not to be restrained
from granting concessions which all Catholics agreed were futile, it
was extremely important that the interests of religion and the rights
of the Holy See should be ably defended; and Father Lainez therefore
insisted that Canisius should not only remain at the Diet of Regensburg
to the bitter end, but that he should hold himself in readiness to
reopen the campaign at Worms.

In the interval Canisius went to Rome to pay his respects to the new
General, and on his return to Germany visited Munich. The capital of
Bavaria was also a hot-bed of heresy, and after a brief sojourn there
he wrote to Father Lainez, entreating that he would send some Fathers
capable of attracting people by their sermons and of edifying them by
the holiness of their lives. He then went to Ingolstadt, and was
greatly consoled by the results that had been obtained by the newly
founded college. Heresy no longer ventured to raise its head where
formerly it had flaunted its colours unabashed, and in every respect
the university was worthy of the care that had been bestowed upon it.
The place was naturally dear to his heart, as the magnificent
first-fruits of his labours for Germany, but tearing himself
reluctantly from the piety and peace which he had so successfully
planted there, he proceeded to confront the enemy at Worms.

The greater number of the Lutheran disputants had already arrived, but
of the six Catholic theologians deputed to enter the lists against
them, the most celebrated, Johann Gropper, Archdeacon of Cologne, was
conspicuous by his absence. Canisius wrote to entreat him to come, but
Gropper was so thoroughly convinced of the uselessness of the
disputations, that he persistently refused to take part in them. The
organisation of the whole matter therefore devolved on Canisius, who
prepared the plan of defence, and appointed to each Catholic theologian
the subject of which he was to treat. Besides this, he continued to
preach, to hear confessions and to take counsel with his colleagues
daily. At night he allowed himself but a brief interval of sleep, the
rest of the time being spent in prayer and study.

He had stipulated before the opening of the conferences that none but
those Protestants who belonged to the Confession of Augsburg, and who
were the only regular, and to some extent, disciplined body among them
should take part in the disputations. This condition had been accepted,
but from the very beginning, Anabaptists, Sacramentarians, and heretics
of every imaginable sect appeared, and claimed the right of speech.
Those of the Augsburg Confession were furious, and refused to make
common cause with the new arrivals. Recriminations, invectives, and
threats were hurled about the Protestant camp till a formidable tumult
ensued. The Augsburg Lutherans at last succeeded in turning out the
other sects, but ashamed of the spectacle they had presented to the
eyes of the Catholics who were all united, they left Worms secretly,
and contented themselves with attacking each other in the usual
vituperative terms.

"It was," wrote Canisius, "as if the giants of old were seeking to
rebuild the Tower of Babel. God visited them with the same spirit of
confusion which prevented their understanding one another, so that
Melancthon was punished by the work of his own hands, like those who
are devoured by the wild beasts which they have themselves bred up with
great pains and difficulty."

Cologne, Strassburg, and his own native Nymwegen next came in for a
share in the apostles' labours. The Bishop of Trent begged him to come
and found a college in his diocese; the Duke of Bavaria called upon him
to organise the one he had already set on foot at Munich, and to
establish another at Landshut. But Straubing, by reason of its extreme
need, detained him longer than any of these places.

Charles V. had himself been mainly responsible for the worst of the
difficulties and complications that existed at Straubing, on account of
his famous interim, which granted to all, on his own personal
authority, permission to communicate under both kinds, pending the
decision of the Council of Trent on this point. Straubing had availed
itself without exception of the permission, and even after the decision
of the Council persisted in retaining the custom. A few priests had
attempted resistance, but numberless apostasies and half an
insurrection had followed on their action, and now the position had
come to be regarded as impregnable.

Canisius made no attempt to storm the fortress; he arrived, and was
gentleness itself. He had scarcely passed a week in the town when he
was regarded as the friend and adviser of all its principal citizens.
His sermons drew crowds as usual, and his instructions on the subject
of Holy Communion, of which his hearers proved to be strangely
ignorant, were continued in the confessional, and on every possible
occasion. At Easter nearly the whole population approached the
sacraments, and communicated without making the least difficulty, under
one kind. The apostle, broken with fatigue, for he had preached
throughout Lent, three times a week, besides catechising, visiting the
sick, hearing confessions, and answering the objections of all who came
to him, was yet beaming with joy, so markedly had his labours been
blessed.

It would be superfluous to follow Canisius in his journey to Poland, in
his fruitful sojourn at Augsburg, in his campaign against the ignorance
of the clergy at Wurzburg, against the Calvinism of the Swiss
Protestants. Everywhere the story is the same: ignorance, vice, and
heresy fled before the bright light of his presence, and his wisdom
provided, that where he had planted the good seed, others should follow
him, to keep it watered, so that there should be no return to the
former errors. Long after his death, the colleges of the Society which
he had founded continued his work, and formed an efficient barrier
against the modern spirit of revolt from authority and order.

If in a sense the old ages of faith were dead, the new age witnessed a
wonderful resurrection, the effect of which is still going on in our
own day. And the scourge of heresy wherewith the Church in Germany was
scourged to its ultimate salvation in the sixteenth century, lies now a
thing of nought, effete and all but lifeless, while the Bride of Christ
has renewed her youth like the eagle.



V. JESUITS AT COURT

Lacordaire once wrote in a letter to Madame Swetchine these remarkable
words concerning the disciples of St. Ignatius:

"Tout ce qui m'a tombe sous la main m'a toujours revolte par l'emphase
ridicule de l'eloge, ou par l'impudeur du blame. II semble que cette
nature d'hommes ait toujours ote la raison a ses amis et a ses ennemis.
Je voudrais leur consacrer dix annees d'etudes, ne fut ce que pour mon
plaisir propre; mais Dieu nous donne et nous prepare une bien autre
besogne, et il faut dire avec l'auteur de l'Imitation, 'relinque
curiosa.' Les Jesuites continueront a faire du bien, et a le faire mal
quelquefois; ils auront des amis frenetiques et des ennemis furieux, en
attendant le jour du jugement dernier, qui sera pour bien des raisons
un tres-interessant et tres-curieux jour."

At no time has the world been more occupied with the Jesuits than at
the present moment, and the prophecy of the celebrated Dominican above
quoted seems more than ever likely to be fulfilled. If their friends
are indeed still as extravagant in their praise as Lacordaire found
them, perhaps on the other hand criticism is even louder, hatred more
profound, accusation more wild and general. Most of the governments of
Europe have banished them, on the ground that they are the enemies to
progress, to liberal ideas, that they have meddled in politics, and
constitute a danger to the State, by seeking to grasp the helm of
public affairs, secretly stirring up the nations against their rulers.

The subject appears to be of perennial and universal application, since
even in this twentieth century, and in so tolerant a country as
England, people have been moved to some apprehension lest we should be
incurring a danger in suffering the Jesuit to live unmolested in our
midst. But it is not our present ambition to settle so burning a
question as the right of members of the Society of Jesus to exist
anywhere; rather would we make an excursion into the domain of history,
and inquire what have been the rules and regulations, and what has been
the practice of the Society concerning politics in the past, what has
been the attitude of its members, prescribed and actual towards kings,
potentates, and dynasties.

Certain facts have recently come to light, bearing on the history of
the Jesuits at the various German courts in the sixteenth century, and
the scattered remains of the private correspondence belonging to the
archives of the old Society before its suppression have been gathered
together. What was done more or less in secret is now proclaimed on the
housetops, and the result, as might be expected, is in many ways
interesting and instructive.*

* Die Jesuiten an den deutschen Furstenhofen des 16ten Jahrhunderts.
Auf Grund ungedruckter Quellen. Von Bernhard Duhr, S. J., Freiburg im
Breisgau, 1901.


This correspondence consists of communications between the rank and
file, and the superiors at Rome, and vice versa, and includes the
letters which passed between the General and the kings, archdukes and
other reigning princes, who were ostensibly friends of the Society, but
who did their best to put frequent spokes in the wheels of the
Constitutions.

The great dearth of learned preachers and confessors that prevailed
about the middle of the sixteenth century appealed strongly to the
Jesuits to throw themselves into the breach, and thus against the
original intention of their founder, they became the spiritual guides
of those who made the history of Europe for the next hundred years and
more. It was a delicate and an onerous task, fraught with temptations
from without and from within.

Ignatius of Loyola, being a man of the world as well as a saint, was
well aware of the perils to which he exposed his sons, in sending them
forth into the midst of vanities, while at the same time, having had
some experience of courts, he knew that princes love not contradiction.
But he decided after mature deliberation that after all his "least
Society" was created to do a certain work in the Church and in the
world, the need of which work was only too apparent in the decayed
state of faith and morals. It was not by turning his back on courts
that he could hope to regenerate them; but it would be interesting
could we discover whether by a contrary decision he would have averted
some of the odium which the name Jesuit has accumulated in the course
of ages.

John III. of Portugal was the first king to demand a Jesuit confessor,
and to him Ignatius sent Father Luis Gonzalez de Comara, much against
the desire of the said individual. To his entreaties and objections the
first General of the Society made answer, on the 9th August 1552, that
he was indeed edified by the humility which caused Father de Comara to
shrink from a position which many envied; nevertheless, he was of the
opinion that he should obey his Highness in this, as in other things,
"for the honour of God our Lord." St. Ignatius went on to say that he
need not occupy himself with any but good and pious objects, neither
had he reason to fear that the king would, against the will of the
Society, confer upon him those honours and dignities with which it was
the custom to distinguish other confessors. If moreover, his remaining
at court was a cross to him, he must bear it with patience as he would
all else that obedience required of him.

At the second General Congregation held in 1565, the question arose
whether Cardinal Otto of Augsburg might have a member of the Society
attached to his court, as theologian. The Congregation decided not to
allow any member to reside permanently at the court of any prince,
spiritual or secular, or to consent to his following the said court on
its travels, either in the capacity of preacher, theologian or
confessor, and that no appointment of such a kind should be permissible
for longer than one month or double that period at the most.

Ten years later, the Provincial Congregation of North Germany was
reminded of this decree in drawing up propositions to be placed before
the third General Congregation, and it was expressly stated that none
but the General of the Society himself should have the power to make
such appointments, that they should be made as rarely as possible,
experience having proved that more harm was done to the confessor by
his residing at court than good to the penitent by his ministrations.
The reply to this proposition was to the effect that with the General
alone should rest the appointment.

By degrees, further legislation became imperative, and the fifth
General Congregation, held in 1593, forbade in the most solemn form
every member of the Society to interfere in politics or any public
affairs whatever. The decree was so absolute that not only did it
ensure the imprudent from taking part in the questions of the day, but
timid confessors were thereby prevented by their scruples from giving
counsel, when appealed to on matters that could scarcely be supposed to
border on politics.

In order therefore, to correct all misapprehension, the General, Father
Aquaviva, issued an Instruction for the confessors of princes, which
was formally approved by the General Congregation of 16o8. This was
considered so important a document that it was incorporated into the
Institute, a sort of code, containing the Constitutions which St.
Ignatius drew up, as well as the decrees of General Congregations. The
Instruction was in fact a summary of all previous experience on the
subject. It provided, first of all, that in cases where the Society
could not avoid compliance with the demand for a confessor at court,
great care should be taken in the choice of the individual member to
fill the office, so that he might conduce to the welfare of the prince,
the edification of the people, and the avoidance of all injury to the
Order. The last clause bore reference to the fact that not infrequently
the Society was called upon to suffer in one place for wounds inflicted
on it in another. Rules for the said confessor were then laid down, to
fit every possible emergency, and in minute detail.

For instance, the king's confessor, although attached to the royal
chapel, must not only lodge exclusively in a college of his Order, but
he must remain subject to the rule, like any other member of the
Society. Even when travelling with the court he was obliged to sleep in
a house of his Order, or if passing through a town where no such house
existed, he must beg hospitality of any other religious community,
preferably to passing the night at court.

It was again solemnly impressed upon him not to allow himself to be
drawn into any secular concerns, which rule the king was humbly
petitioned to enforce.

Neither must the confessor undertake to be an emissary between the
prince, his penitent, and any of his ministers, or other officials.

As regarded the prince himself, he was bound to listen to his
confessor, not merely when he exhorted him on the subject-matter of his
confessions, but also in matters relating to the prevention of
injustice, oppression, or other scandals such as often came about
through the fault of officials, and which were unknown to the sovereign.

None might undertake the office of permanent confessor at court without
the consent of his provincial. It was, moreover, the duty of the
provincial before according such permission, to hand this Instruction
to the prince in order that he might thoroughly understand what the
Society was willing to bestow upon him. The prince was further to be
reminded in modest but decided terms, that superiors retained the right
to the obedience of the individual who became his confessor, as
absolutely as to that of any other member of the Society.

At first there seemed no great need for these precautions. The emperor,
Charles V., chose Dominicans for his confessors, and his successor,
Ferdinand, followed his example. But Ferdinand held the Society in
great esteem, and at his death Father Lainez, who was then General,
ordered that each priest in the college at Dillingen should offer
twelve Masses for the repose of his soul, and the lay-brothers were to
say certain prayers with the same intention. The Society was not only
indebted to him for his unvarying friendship, but owed to his
munificence the foundation of four colleges, viz., those of Vienna,
Prague, Innsbruck, and Tyrnau.

Ferdinand's son and successor, Maximilian, having Protestant leanings,
dispensed with a confessor altogether, but his wife, Doha Maria, sister
of Philip II. of Spain, was provided with a Spanish Franciscan, who was
chosen for her by her brother. Maximilian's sons all chose Jesuit
confessors, as did also his daughter, the Queen of Bohemia.

At that time the Lutherans thought that Catholicism was at its last
gasp, and they eagerly anticipated the banishment of the Jesuits. But
Maximilian, in spite of his Protestant tendencies, was well disposed
towards them, and their college at Vienna received many marks of his
favour, to the great disgust of his Lutheran subjects. The Protestant
nobles assembled at the Landtag held in Vienna, attached three
conditions to their votes of supplies for his war against the
Turks:--The abolition of the procession of Corpus Christi, the
confirmation of the Confession of Augsburg, and the banishment of the
Jesuits. They declared that if the emperor refused to grant these
requests, they would not furnish him with the required subsidy for the
war. Maximilian replied that it was his business to repulse the Turks;
the other things did not concern him, but the Pope.*

* Orig. G. Epist., 6, 48 seq.


Disappointed in their hopes, the Lutherans, allying themselves with the
enemies of the Jesuits within the Church, began to circulate false
reports against the Society. At one moment they accused Father Peter
Canisius of prejudicing the Pope against the emperor, at another, the
whole community at Vienna were declared guilty of openly insulting the
Protestants. Reiterated complaints poured into the emperor's ears ended
by alienating Maximilian from his former friends, and it was difficult,
almost impossible for them to obtain a hearing. But the empress
remained loyal to them, and would perhaps have been termed by
Lacordaire frenetique.

Father Maggio, who was then court preacher, seems to have been a man of
great prudence and mildness, thoroughly imbued with the spirit of
religion. By degrees he not only convinced Maximilian of the injustice
of the attacks made upon the Society, but the two became fast friends,
so that when he was made Provincial of Austria in 1566, the appointment
gave much satisfaction at court. He was frequently summoned to private
audiences, and the emperor treated him with so much confidence that
Father Maggio would sometimes venture to address to him written words
of exhortation, words which Maximilian invariably took in good part.
The empress, observing the affection of her husband for the Jesuit
would consult Father Maggio as to the best means of confirming him in
the Catholic religion.

When Father Maggio was made provincial, Father Antonio, a Portuguese
Jesuit, became court preacher, but so little to his own satisfaction
that he repeatedly appealed to the empress and to the General for his
release. He bewailed his unfitness for a post requiring so much
exceptional virtue, and expressed his desire to be sent to foreign
missions. If such were not the will of his superiors, he entreated that
he might have some humble office in a house of novices, where he might
live unnoticed by the world, and labour for his soul's health.

The General, Father Mercurian, replied, on the 18th March 1576, that he
had no one to replace him at court, and that he must perforce remain
where he was. Previously to this, Father Antonio had besought the
empress to dismiss him, but she had answered that she counted on his
ministrations at the hour of death. A month after Father Mercurian's
refusal to remove him, he again wrote to the General, begging that he
might apply to the empress for, at least, a year's leave of absence,
during which time a locum tenens might be dispensed with. Two days
later, he followed up this letter with another, giving the General his
opinion why it was inexpedient for any member of the Society to remain
at court for more than a short term, such as a month or two. There was,
he said, no bishop, ambassador, or person of consequence who did not
desire to have several of the Fathers about him; the door which, at
their profession, they had shut on the world, seemed in a certain sense
to be reopened by a residence at court; unfortunately, men were not
wanting who aspired to such offices, and great inconveniences ensued
thereby. Some grew accustomed to a certain independence, little in
accordance with the rules of the Society, some were altogether spoiled,
and brought disgrace on the Order. It was, perhaps, not astonishing
that after this letter the General showed even less inclination than
before to remove Father Antonio. One who thus appreciated the dangers
of the world would be less likely than another to fall a prey to them,
and was as safe at court as in fulfilling the humblest duties of the
noviceship.

But when all was said and done, the influence of the Jesuits at the
Court of Vienna was not very great. Their El Dorado was the Archducal
Court at Gratz, where reigned Ferdinand's son, Charles II. Here their
power was at least supposed to be so great that their enemies declared
that they possessed the master-key of all the doors in the palace, and
could pass through all the rooms composing the apartments of the
Archduchess at will. This, however, with other things, she declared
solemnly to be nothing but lies--nur lautere Lugen--and an attack on
her honour.*

* Hurter, Ferdinand II, 3, 578.


Apart from these unpleasant calumnies, the Society flourished at Gratz
as hardly anywhere else, and was able to train its novices, give the
Spiritual Exercises, and administer the sacraments undisturbed. The
only difficulties that arose were in connection with the right of the
provincial to move his men about as he chose, the archduke, like the
emperor, being inclined to regard his confessors as his own property.
This was notably the case with the celebrated Father Blyssem, who
received marching orders in 1578. The Archduke at once wrote to the
General, declaring that Father Blyssem's removal would be extremely
inconvenient, and was not to be contemplated. If the General were on
the spot he would be of the archduke's opinion. First, Father Blyssem
was his and the archduchess's confessor, and they both wished above all
things to keep him. Secondly, he was not only a vigilant rector of the
college under him, and an experienced confessor, but he was also an
excellent preacher. And finally, he was beloved by all, was well
acquainted with the idiosyncrasies of the country, enjoyed a good
reputation and inspired respect even in the opponents of the Catholic
religion. His sudden departure could not therefore but be injurious to
the temporal and spiritual welfare of the college, and detrimental to
the general good.

Not alone the archduke, the papal legate, Bishop Ringuarda, also
appealed to the General of the Jesuits in the same interest, saying
that he had already sought the intervention of the Pope and the
Cardinal of Como, to prevent the removal of Father Blyssem. As he now
heard that, in spite of his efforts, Father Blyssem was to go to Rome,
at least for three months, Bishop Ringuarda begged most urgently that
this order might be cancelled, the Father's absence for even a week, to
say nothing of a month, being likely to entail serious harm to the
Church in Austria. His daily presence was so necessary, that if he were
not already at Gratz, he must be sent there without delay. The legate
then went on to enumerate all the wonderful qualities possessed by the
rector, and ended his letter with the solemn entreaty that the General
would on no account remove him.*

* Orig. G. Epist., 3, 298.


Pressure such as this being frequently brought to bear on superiors,
they could scarcely be said to exercise undivided control over their
own subjects.

Driven into a corner, Aquaviva was obliged to leave the archduke's
confessor where he was, accommodating matters by making him Provincial
of Austria, in place of Father Maggio, Father Emerich Torsler replacing
Father Blyssem as rector of the college at Gratz. The archduke
expressed himself content with the arrangement, provided that Father
Blyssem did not absent himself on the business of the province when he
required him at his side.

The new provincial had occasion, in January 1582, to write to the
General about the sermons of a certain Father John Reinel, which were,
he complained, too lengthy and too violent. In regard to the first
fault he had improved somewhat, but no admonition had succeeded in
causing him to desist from his biting attacks on the heretics. His
Paternity was, therefore, requested to command him to observe more
moderation and gentleness, and instead of handling the heretics angrily
and roughly, to teach and exhort them with Christian charity. In this
manner he would convert a far greater number, as every one maintained.
But if he continued as heretofore, Father Blyssem would be obliged to
send him to another college, where he would have to adopt a different
style or give over preaching altogether, and take up another occupation.

But the removal of Father Reinel was not so simple a matter as it at
first appeared. Towards the end of the year, Father Blyssem again wrote
to Aquaviva on the same subject. It had been decided during the
preceding summer to send the unmanageable preacher to another sphere of
activity, he having been already so long a time at Gratz, where he was
too much engrossed in the court, which he had recently, against the
wishes of his superiors, accompanied in its journey of several months
through Bavaria and Suabia, to the neglect of the pulpit at Gratz.
Moreover, his harsh and aggressive manner of preaching was as repulsive
to the Catholics as to the Lutherans, but when, according to his
instructions, he was on the point of starting for Vienna, the
archduchess, whose confessions he sometimes heard in Father Blyssem's
temporary absence, was so much aggrieved at the change, that she
entreated her husband with many arguments and tears to prevent his
departure. Accordingly, the archduke begged the provincial to defer
Father Reinel's removal on account of his consort's distress, and this
he apparently did, but he wrote to the General asking him to insist on
the order being carried out, and to persuade the archduke to agree to
it.

Sometimes varying reports were sent to the General concerning the
behaviour of certain Fathers at court. Thus, the rector of the college
at Gratz wrote somewhat severely of Father Saxo, who also was a
favourite in the most exalted circle.

But Father Blyssem in a letter to Aquaviva, dated gist December 1585,
defended him, saying:--

"Your Paternity appears to be incorrectly informed as to Father Saxo.
In my judgment, and in that of other Fathers of consideration, he has
very greatly improved in his manner and conduct towards others. When I
was at Gratz last year he was in possession of a costly little alarum,
which he had received as a present from a nobleman. He was well pleased
that the clock should be taken from him, and sold for the benefit of
the noviceship. The seal which he used at missions, and which he would
willingly have kept afterwards, he gave up at once at the instance of
his superior. He had received a great many books as presents in the
course of his missions, to assist him in preaching, and these he
delivered up for the common use, after very little delay. The Fathers
whom I questioned answered that they had noticed nothing in Father Saxo
that might give scandal, nor had they ever heard anything of the kind
about him."

The complaints against Father Viller were less easily answered. He had
filled the office of Austrian Provincial between the years 1589 and
1595, and in the latter year was appointed rector of the college at
Gratz. During this time the Archduke Ferdinand chose him as his
confessor. Not long afterwards he was accused to the General of being a
courtier, an imputation so vague as to need a discursive reply. But his
long letter of self justification addressed to Father Aquaviva is
interesting on account of the vivid scenes it lays before us. Its main
contents are these:--

"Already fifteen or sixteen years ago, when Father Maggio had left the
province, certain Fathers in Vienna complained bitterly to the new
provincial, Father Blyssem, that I had a courtier-like mind, because
people about the court came to me, and I associated with them. I was,
it is true, in favour with the imperial council, with the bishops and
the Hungarian nobles, also with the apostolic nuntios Delphin and
Portia, and I laboured to the extent of my power in the interests of
religion. Father Provincial removed me from my office, and I became his
secretary and admonitor. Two years later, when a visitor, Father Oliver
came, he reinstated me as Master of the alumni, discipline among them
having become relaxed. When I had been another two years in this
office, I was again accused to the provincial. I was deposed, but in
the meantime, the baselessness of the charges brought against me having
been proved, I was appointed rector at Olmutz, and Father Provincial
assured me with tears that I had been unjustly treated. Five years
afterwards I was elected provincial, and the Father Visitor was able to
testify that I suffered much, even to the danger of losing my life, in
discharging the duties of this office in Bohemia and Hungary. The next
provincial (Father Ferdinand Alber) evinced dislike of me immediately
on his taking up office, the reason of which was, I believe, merely
that we do not share the same opinions. He, like Fathers Bader, Reinel,
and Scherer, is for public penitential exercises in the refectory
daily; I, on the contrary, am for a milder proceeding, such as I have
learned of Fathers Maggio, Everard (Mercurian) Goudan, Canisius, and
Lanoy. Therefore, I am called a courtier, even when I am not at court.
The whole college will bear witness that I go there less often than
Father Reinel, who at least went once a day, whereas I go on an average
but once a week.

"If it be objected that I suffer the princes to come frequently to the
college, I reply, as I replied to the Father Provincial, that I will
undertake they shall come no more, but the responsibility for this must
rest with others.

"I am further reproached with having invited the princes to dinner at
the vineyard, and also at the college, and that I even played with them
at the vineyard. As for the invitation, the princes themselves asked to
be invited, and the Apostolic Nuntio, and the Bishop of Laibach, were
present at the games, which were, in my judgment, honourable and modest.

"I have begged to be removed from both my offices, in order to remove
suspicion, and to obtain peace, for I see that I am not agreeable to my
provincial, he having forbidden me to hear the confessions of the
archduke and those of the dowager archduchess, who with her daughters
insists on confessing to me.

"If any one has told the provincial that the college is in a bad state,
ocular demonstration will prove the contrary; everything goes on in an
orderly way. The archduke receives Holy Communion every Sunday. He is
burning with desire to reinstate the Catholic religion, and he labours
for the conversion of the nobility. Only yesterday a man in a very high
position was received into the Church. As for your Paternity's
exhortation to guard against the spirit of the world, I thank you, but
I do not see how I am to do it, unless I flee from the court and from
those about it. I will take pains to satisfy my conscience and
obedience, but I fear that I shall not content those who look on the
dark side. If your Paternity thinks that I seek the favour of princes
more for my own sake than that of the Society, it is a bitter reproach,
for I would rather die than be guilty of such a fault. The archdukes
will bear me out how often I have spoken to them on this subject, and
how I have begged them to write nothing on my behalf to the General or
to the provincial; but they insist that if I lay down the rectorate I
must retain the confessorship."*

* Orig. G. Epist., 35, 479.


In the end, this suggested compromise was effected. Father Viller was
no longer rector of Gratz, but remained confessor to the archducal
family. Nevertheless, complaints of him did not cease, and he had to
defend himself against the charge of clinging inordinately to the
worldy advantages of his position. In a confidential letter to the
German Resident in Rome he wrote:--

"I call God to witness that I do not value the court and my present
office more than any other service which my superiors may call upon me
to render to the Society. I am cheerfully ready to leave the court at
any moment, and at the risk of losing the prince's favour, whenever my
superior expresses a wish that I should do so, to say nothing of
receiving a decided order. I have not so high an opinion of my person
that I seek consideration on account of the favour and affection of the
prince."

Still the attacks on Father Viller did not cease. Those who were for
unmitigated austerity looked on his broad views with horror. Father
Scherer, one of the most rigid, called him "the synagogue of
Libertines." The provincial, and the Spaniard, Father Ximenes, were
among those who judged him most severely. He was, moreover,
involved--and this is perhaps less to his credit than any supposed
laxness with which he was charged--in the squabbles between the
Hapsburg and Wittelsbach royal families, concerning the bishopric of
Passau. This had for long been an apple of contention between Austria
and Bavaria, and the new rector of the college at Gratz, Father Haller,
in describing the situation to the General, wrote: "Outsiders on either
side naturally throw oil on the flames, and as regards Ours, I doubt
whether they do their best to extinguish them, exercising the necessary
charity and prudence. Father Viller does the reverse, blaming and
condemning everything Bavarian, while he praises and defends the
Austrians indiscriminately. Both parties have their adherents, who
publish everything from their own point of view. As this one-sided
material is all that is laid before Ours, the danger is that the advice
given is not in favour of investigation. It is taken for granted that
all that comes before their eyes is true, and the other side is
condemned unheard. But as it is clear that the Christian cause in
Germany would be greatly benefited by a union of the two parties, it
would be well worth the trouble, seeing the immense influence which the
Society has over the princes and their advisers, for the members of the
Order to labour with more zeal than heretofore, to bring about this
reconciliation, particularly at Prague, Vienna, Munich, and Gratz." He
concludes with the wish that not alone the Society, but the rulers of
the Church also, might advance the cause of union.

In a postscript Father Haller returns to his charge against Father
Viller, who, he declares, has disregarded the rules of the fifth
General Congregation. At Ferrara, for instance, he engaged in a violent
controversy with the Bavarian agent, Sper, about the Passau question,
as well as that of the bishopric of Salzburg, which the Bavarians were
supposed to covet. Besides this, Father Viller, blinded by prejudice,
disapproved of the contemplated marriage between the Austrian Archduke
and the Princess Maria Anna of Bavaria, "which he would prevent if he
could. In short," wrote the provincial, "the good Father has
extravagant and dangerous notions, and gives no good example to the
college."

In his own defence Father Viller wrote that he was by no means averse
from the alliance, that he had himself secretly applied for, and
obtained, the necessary dispensation at Rome, and had frequently
expressed his earnest desire that the marriage might take place,
considering that a union between the two princely houses would conduce
to the honour of both, and to the protection and defence of the
Catholic religion in Germany.

Only, the health of the bride must be considered no less than her great
and remarkable piety, as it was important to provide for the
continuation of the line of the august house, into which it was
proposed she should enter. He had thought that as marriage was so
delicate an affair, foresight was needful, in order that no want of
physical health and beauty might in course of time change affection
into aversion, such as was to be daily observed in the marriages of so
many illustrious persons. This, Father Viller declared, was his whole
mind on the subject, and such as he had in all humility expressed it to
the prince. With his whole heart he wished both exalted personages the
tenderest love, firm union, and continuous happiness. He believed that
the Archduke Ferdinand could not form a more suitable alliance with any
other family in Europe, but at the same time, no one should quarrel
with him, Father Viller, for wishing that the bride might possess
sufficient corporal health and beauty to ensure the well-being of their
issue, and the continuance of conjugal affection. For this reason he
trusted in the great piety and noble character of the duke and duchess
that they would not endanger the future of their daughter, and that of
her children, as well as the happiness of their prospective son-in-law,
by concealing a want of health on the part of their most devout and
admirable daughter.*

* The reports as to the condition of the Princess Maria Anna's health
appear not to have been without foundation. Hurter mentions her
delicacy, and Koch says that she was unhealthy. She died on the 8th
March 1616.


But Duke William of Bavaria was deeply offended with the Archduke
Ferdinand's confessor, and even after the marriage which took place on
the 23rd April 1600, at Gratz, Father Viller having indiscreetly
reopened the subject of the bride's want of health, complaints of him
reached the General. But, in spite of all this, he did not lose the
archduke's favour, retaining his entire confidence to the end.

An incident connected with the jealousy with which the Society guarded
its rule of non-interference in politics, is furnished by the same
Father Viller, who, in 1599, was appointed to go to Rome on a mission
from the Austrian archduke. On this occasion the General, Father
Aquaviva, wrote to Father Viller as follows:--

"As at the present time general suspicion is aroused, especially in
Venice, by any semblance even of politics, it will be difficult to
avoid remarks, when it is seen that your reverence is charged with an
embassy from the archduke to the Pope. And as the good prince has
deserved so well of the Church and of the Society, and especially as
your reverence has resisted so long, excusing yourself in prudent and
religious fashion, it appears to me that a via media is possible, and
an exception may be made. That is to say, that if the mission has
nothing whatever to do with politics, but has merely regard to matters
of faith, concerning heretics or the Turks, your reverence is at
liberty to undertake it, and may set out as soon as is desired. But if
the business is a political one, you must entreat the archduke,
appealing to his love for the Society, to send some one more suitable
in your place. This will be better for the archduke himself, and will
confer a benefit on the Society."*

*Ad. Austr., 1573-1600.


It cannot be denied that during the reigns of the Archdukes Ferdinand,
Charles, and Rudolph, the Court of Gratz was a model of purity,
uprightness, and activity. As the Jesuits were all-powerful there
during the whole of this period, it is obvious that this satisfactory
condition must, in a large measure, be attributed to their influence.

The introduction of the Society into Innsbruck was the work of the
Emperor Ferdinand, and the first Jesuit to labour in the new field was
the Tyrolese, Father Charles Grim. At Innsbruck, in 1561, lived the
five so-called queens, daughters of the emperor, who lived a
semi-religious life, and who desired to be confessed, directed, and
preached to by members of the Society. In 1563 the emperor paid a visit
to his daughters, and inspected the new college at Innsbruck. He
expressed his satisfaction with it, and presented the community with a
garden.

The five "queens," Magdalen, Margaret, Barbara, Helena, Joanna, had a
great reputation for piety and charity. A young girl, who had received
severe injuries from a fire, was received into their palace and nursed
with the most loving care. Certain persons were charged by them to
inform them of cases of need as they arose. Father Edmund Hay told the
General that three of the "queens" had dedicated themselves to God by a
vow, and had resolved to remove as soon as possible from the turmoil
and luxury of the court into greater solitude. One of them was
especially pious, frequented the sacraments once a month and oftener,
and would practise very great austerities if her confessor would allow
her. In 1565 people already declared that the court of these
archduchesses was like a convent; every sign of pomp and splendour had
disappeared, and humility and modesty reigned in their stead.

On the 11th January 1566, Father Dirsius wrote to the General, St.
Francis Borgia, in behalf of the "queens" Margaret, Magdalen, and
Helena, telling him that their brothers, the emperor, and the Archdukes
Ferdinand and Charles, fully concurred in their making the
above-mentioned vow. They had wished, he said, to remove to Munich,
with their attendants, and to live there in a convent of Poor Clares,
apart from the world. But this plan their brothers opposed, and desired
them to remain in Austria. The emperor had even offered them deserted
convents in Corinthia, but in those parts there were too many heretics
to please the princesses. Everyone advised them to remain at Innsbruck,
where they already edified the faithful by their virtuous example, and
prevented apostasy. They themselves were willing to remain; at least
they wished to be in a place where there was a college of the Society,
and were thinking of taking the newly-built Franciscan convent, the
Italian Franciscans for whom it had been constructed being unlikely to
remain on account of the climate and the difficulties they experienced
in mastering the German language. In case the archduchesses did not get
possession of this convent they had also in view a house in the
neighbourhood of Innsbruck. In this event they humbly begged for
fathers to direct them spiritually, and to undertake the care of other
souls in the place.

In answering this letter St. Francis Borgia said that the Society was
ready to help the archduchesses spiritually, if only out of gratitude
to their father and brother, but that it was contrary to the Institute
for the members of the Society to live for any length of time apart
from their colleges or houses, and it would in any case be displeasing
to the Fathers themselves to forego the company and edifying example of
their religious brethren. It seemed, therefore, advisable that the
three princesses should take up their abode where there was a college
or house of the Society, and preferably at Innsbruck, where they might
inhabit the house built by their father, or some other of the same
description, where they might observe the rule of life they had
adopted, and keep the vow they had taken before God. The Fathers might
hear the confessions of the princesses and preach to them. A proviso
was afterwards made that, in the event of the "queens" founding a
convent, the Jesuits should no longer be their confessors, as this
would be directly contrary to the intention of St. Ignatius, as
expressed in the Institute.

The General then sent Father Canisius to Innsbruck to arrange matters,
and the holy apostle of Germany formulated the opinion that "Ours
should not easily receive permission to direct women, even the most
exalted in position, for we have experienced to our detriment and the
detriment of this college in particular, that Ours are liable in such
matters to suffer in their vocation, and as a consequence to become
unbearable."*

* Kroess, p. 177.


The next year (16th August 1567), Father Peter Canisius reiterated his
apprehension: "I consider it extremely difficult to keep Fathers to
their obedience and religious discipline when they are in any way bound
to the court," he said.

Meanwhile, the "queens" had chosen Hall, a little town near Innsbruck,
as their residence, and Father Dirsius announced the circumstance to
the General in these terms:--

"The Queens have purposed for years to withdraw from the world. Now,
with the consent of their brothers, they have decided to reside at
Hall, and there with some of their ladies and attendants who wish to
imitate them, to lead a religious life in common, but without adopting
a habit or the rule of any religious order. They need priests, however,
and wish for Fathers of the Society. They beg, therefore, that the
church to be built at Hall with all its treasures may be taken over by
the Society, for which they also wish to found a novitiate there."

But Father Borgia again objected, foreseeing nearly all the
difficulties which arose later on. The Society might not undertake the
direction of a community of women, even though these were not leading a
thoroughly conventual life. It was not advisable for the Fathers to
accept the church offered to them at Hall, because the college they
were to establish in that place would have its own church connected
with it, which would suffice. Further, it was not convenient that a
church, communicating with the house where the archduchesses lived with
their suite, should be handed over to them, and lastly, it was not the
custom of the Fathers to go daily from their own to another church at a
distance, to conduct divine service there. The General concluded his
letter with the remark that, as the project of the "queens" was
directly opposed to the Institute, nothing further need be said about
such a foundation.

In a second letter he instructed Blessed Peter Canisius to impress upon
the archduchesses that they should be content with the confessor chosen
by the Society as the one best suited to them. Canisius was then to
name Father Lanoy, whom the General was sending to Innsbruck from
Vienna, the empress having been very well contented with him. If they
demurred, it was to be represented to them that it was not becoming for
"Ours" to frequent palaces much. The less frequently they were seen
there the better, and the less people testified their affection for
them by sending them food and clothes, the better would they be enabled
to live a community life, and observe the Institute. The better also
would they be able to render spiritual service.

Father Borgia communicated this instruction to the rector of Innsbruck
College also, and added that he feared the Fathers were too much
spoiled by presents from the "queens," who were in the habit of sending
meals daily from their palace to them. In answer to the rector's
question as to what was to be done with the food thus sent, the General
replied that it was to be given to the sick, or to those in need. It
was to be desired that the "queens" might be persuaded to send no more
things of the sort. If they wished to bestow an alms on the college,
they should do so in a more useful way. On no consideration should
their confessor be allowed to take his meals in his own room; sickness
being the only exception to this rule.

It was some time before the princesses could be induced to give up
sending delicacies to their confessors, two lackeys being daily told
off to carry the various dishes from the palace to the college. At
last, however, the unwelcome favours were stopped by the rector
declaring that the dinners thus sent did not reach the destination
intended, but were distributed to the sick members of the community and
others, the "queens" confessors partaking of the ordinary fare.

Nevertheless, the archduchesses gained their point as regarded the
other matter, for in the end, the General gave an unwilling consent to
their choosing their own confessors, but he told Canisius that this
arrangement only held good during the lifetime of the "queens," and was
to form no precedent. After their death the Society would not continue
to direct the community of ladies which they had founded, such work not
being in accordance with the rules of the Institute, which, in this
particular as in others, had been approved by the Holy See.

In order to secure the Jesuits permanently as their directors, the
pious archduchesses determined to found a novitiate at Hall, and to
offer it to the General of the Society. St. Francis Borgia accepted the
offer, but on condition that no responsibility was to accrue to the
Society respecting the future of the community, and he wished it to be
impressed on the princesses how much he had condescended in allowing
their confessors to associate with their court, such frequent
intercourse with seculars, especially with ladies, being undesirable
for religious, and giving occasion to idle and frivolous remarks.

In the meanwhile, the Archduchess Magdalen had given notice that the
whole machinery of her court would be broken up in six months. Those of
her ladies, ladies' maids, and attendants who desired to do so might
follow her and her two sisters into their spiritual solitude at Hall,
no longer as servants, but as companions in the service of God.
Accordingly, by the end of October 1569, all was in readiness, and the
three princesses, accompanied by six of their suite who had resolved to
share their penance, removed to Hall, where they themselves performed
nearly the whole of the housework, two servants only being engaged for
the roughest portion of the labour. Hereupon, a storm of abuse broke
over the heads of the Innsbruck Jesuits, who had, of course, originated
the whole affair, seeking their own advantage. It was they who had
persuaded Magdalen to found a novitiate, and it was their fault that
the "queens" washed the clothes, plates, and dishes of the new
community with their own imperial hands, cooking also the meals of
which they partook. Rumours were afloat to the effect that the emperor
and the archdukes were furious.* All this was, however, but the
malicious invention of enemies, and the facts communicated to the
General by the Fathers at Innsbruck reveal nothing but satisfaction on
all sides. The archduke concurred in all that was done, and the
princesses were brought to acquiesce in the arrangement by which the
Fathers were to live at some distance from their house, and the Jesuits
rejoiced, inasmuch as they were left free to use the building handed
over to them as a school or a novitiate, or to put it to any use they
thought fit. Father Hoffaus wrote that the archduke had accorded him a
long and very gracious audience, and had assured him of his affection
and esteem for the Society. On the 5th December, High Mass had been
sung in their church at Innsbruck, and on the preceding day he had
announced a plenary Indulgence to all who should assist at it, on
account of the departure of the "queens." The archduke, the "queens,"
and the whole of the nobility had been present. The archduke had shown
himself extremely gracious and kind, and had paid a visit to Father
George Scharich, who was sick, and had sent him costly waters. By his
kindness he had consoled the whole community. The same day he had
conducted the "queens," his sisters, solemnly to their retreat at Hall,
and on the next had left for Prague, upon which Father Hoffaus had
taken possession of the new college.

* Orig. G. Epist., 9, 133.


On the 31st January 1570, the same Father wrote from Innsbruck:--

"The college at Hall is going on quietly. The queen scarcely worries us
at all; she has not yet entered our house since we went there, and she
seldom sends for us. In short, she leaves us in peace, and if this
continues, no one can complain of her, except that she generally
detains her confessor for nearly two hours after Mass. But this can be
borne, as there is no danger, and as I have often called her attention
to it and have blamed her for it, she is now rather more considerate."

The following extracts from "Queen" Magdalen's statutebook for her
