almost exhausted." Chicot looked, and saw,
indeed, that the poor animals were trembling from head to foot.

"Well! brother," said he, "we must take a resolution. You must
leave me."

"Leave you; why?"

"You go too slow."

"Slow! why, we have galloped for five hours this morning."

"That is not enough."

"Well, then, let us go on; the quicker we go, the sooner we shall
arrive, for I suppose we shall stop at last."

"But our animals are exhausted."

"What shall we do then?"

"Leave them here, and take them as we come back."

"Then how are we to proceed?"

"We will buy mules."

"Very well," said Gorenflot with a sigh. Two mules were soon
found, and they went so well that in the evening Chicot saw with
joy those of the three travelers, standing at the door of a
farrier's. But they were without harness, and both master and
lackeys had disappeared. Chicot trembled. "Go," said he, to
Gorenflot, "and ask if those mules are for sale, and where their
owners are." Gorenflot went, and soon returned, saying that a
gentleman had sold them, and had afterwards taken the road to
Avignon.

"Alone?"

"No, with a lackey."

"And where is the other lackey?"

"He went towards Lyons."

"And how did they go on?"

"On horses which they bought."

"Of whom?"

"Of a captain of troopers who was here, and they sold their mules
to a dealer, who is trying to sell them again to those Franciscan
monks whom you see there."

"Well, take our two mules and go and offer them to the monks instead;
they ought to give you the preference."

"But, then, how shall we go on?"

"On horseback, morbleu."

"Diable!"

"Oh! a good rider like you. You will find me again on the Grand
Place." Chicot was bargaining for some horses, when he saw the
monk reappear, carrying the saddles and bridles of the mules.

"Oh! you have kept the harness?"

"Yes."

"And sold the mules?"

"For ten pistoles each."

"Which they paid you?"

"Here is the money."

"Ventre de biche! you are a great man, let us go on."

"But I am thirsty."

"Well, drink while I saddle the beasts, but not too much."

"A bottle."

"Very well."

Gorenflot drank two, and came to give the rest of the money back
to Chicot, who felt half inclined to give it to him, but reflecting
that if Gorenflot had money he would no longer be obedient, he
refrained. They rode on, and the next evening Chicot came up
with Nicolas David, still disguised as a lackey, and kept him in
sight all the way to Lyons, whose gates they all three entered
on the eighth day after their departure from Paris.




CHAPTER XXX.

HOW CHICOT AND HIS COMPANION INSTALLED THEMSELVES AT THE HOTEL
OF THE CROSS, AND HOW THEY WERE RECEIVED BY THE HOST.

Chicot watched Nicolas David into the principal hotel of the
place, and then said to Gorenflot, "Go in and bargain for a private
room, say that you expect your brother, then come out and wait
about for me, and I will come in when it is dark, and you can
bring me straight to my room. Do you understand?"

"Perfectly."

"Choose a good room, as near as possible to that of the traveler
who has just arrived; it must look on to the street, and on no
account pronounce my name."

Gorenflot acquitted himself marvelously of the commission. Their
room was only separated by a partition from that of Nicolas David.

"You deserve a recompense," said Chicot to him, "and you shall
have sherry wine for supper."

"I never got tipsy on that wine; it would be agreeable."

"You shall to-night. But now ramble about the town."

"But the supper?"

"I shall be ready against your return; here is a crown meanwhile."

Gorenflot went off quite happy, and then Chicot made, with a
gimlet, a hole in the partition at about the height of his eye.
Through this, he could hear distinctly all that passed, and he
could just see the host talking to Nicolas David, who was professing
to have been sent on a mission by the king, to whom he professed
great fidelity. The host did not reply, but Chicot fancied he
could see an ironical smile on his lip whenever the king's name
was mentioned.

"Is he a leaguer?" thought Chicot; "I will find out."

When the host left David he came to visit Chicot, who said, "Pray
sit down, monsieur; and before we make a definitive arrangement,
listen to my history. You saw me this morning with a monk?"

"Yes, monsieur."

"Silence! that monk is proscribed."

"What! is he a disguised Huguenot?"

Chicot took an offended air. "Huguenot, indeed! he is my relation,
and I have no Huguenot relations. On the contrary, he is so fierce
an enemy of the Huguenots, that he has fallen into disgrace with
his majesty Henri III., who protects them, as you know."

The host began to look interested. "Silence," said he.

"Why, have you any of the king's people here?"

"I fear so; there is a traveler in there."

"Then we must fly at once, for proscribed, menaced----"

"Where will you go?"

"We have two or three addresses given to us by an innkeeper we
know, M. la Huriere."

"Do you know La Huriere?"

"Yes, we made his acquaintance on the night of St. Bartholomew."

"Well, I see you and your relation are holy people; I also know
La Huriere. Then you say this monk----"

"Had the imprudence to preach against the Huguenots, and with
so much success that the king wanted to put him in prison."

"And then?"

"Ma foi, I carried him off."

"And you did well."

"M. de Guise offered to protect him."

"What! the great Henri?"

"Himself; but I feared civil war."

"If you are friends of M. de Guise, you know this;" and he made
a sort of masonic sign by which the leaguers recognized each
other.

Chicot, who had seen both this and the answer to it twenty times
during that famous night, replied, "And you this?"

"Then," said the innkeeper, "you are at home here; my house is
yours, look on me as a brother, and if you have no money----"

Chicot drew out his purse. The sight of a well-filled purse is
always agreeable, even to a generous host.

"Our journey," continued Chicot, "is paid for by the treasurer
of the Holy Union, for we travel to propagate the faith. Tell
us of an inn where we may be safe."

"Nowhere more so than here, and if you wish it, the other traveler
shall turn out."

"Oh! no; it is better to have your enemies near, that you may
watch them. But, what makes you think he is our enemy?"

"Well! first he came disguised as a lackey, then he put on an
advocate's dress, and I am sure he is no more an advocate than
he is a lackey, for I saw a long rapier under his cloak. Then
he avowed he had a mission from the king!"

"From Herod, as I call him."

"Sardanapalus."

"Bravo!"

"Ah! I see we understand each other."

"Then we are to remain here?"

"I should think so."

"Not a word about my relation."

"Of course not."

"Nor of me."

"Oh, no! But hush! here is some one."

"Oh, it is the worthy man himself!"

The host turned to Gorenflot, and made a sign of the leaguers.
Gorenflot was struck with terror and astonishment.

"Reply, my brother," said Chicot; "he is a member."

"Of what?"

"Of the Holy Union," said Bernouillet, in a low tone.

"You see all is safe; reply," said Chicot.

Gorenflot replied, to the great joy of the innkeeper.

"But," said Gorenflot, who did not like the conversation, "you
promised me some sherry."

"Sherry, Malaga, Alicant--every wine in my cellar is at your
disposal."

Gorenflot looked at Chicot in amazement.

For three following days Gorenflot got drunk, first on sherry,
next on Malaga, then on Alicant; afterwards he declared he liked
Burgundy best, and returned to that. Meanwhile, Chicot had never
stirred from his room, and had constantly watched Nicolas David,
who, having appointed to meet Pierre de Gondy at this inn, would
not leave the house. On the morning of the sixth day he declared
himself ill, and the next day worse. Bernouillet came joyfully
to tell Chicot.

"What! do you think him in danger?"

"High fever, my dear brother; he is delirious, and tried to strangle
me and beat my servants. The doctors do not understand his
complaint."

"Have you seen him?"

"Yes; I tell you he tried to strangle me."

"How did he seem?"

"Pale and furious, and constantly crying out."

"What?"

"Take care of the king! they want to hurt the king! Then he
constantly says that he expects a man from Avignon, and wishes
to see him before he dies."

As for Gorenflot, he grew visibly fatter every day, so much so,
that he announced to Chicot with terror one day that the staircase
was narrowing. Neither David, the League, nor religion occupied
him; he thought of nothing but how to vary his dinner and wine,
so that Bernouillet often exclaimed in astonishment, "To think
that that man should be a torrent of eloquence!"




CHAPTER XXXI.

HOW THE MONK CONFESSED THE ADVOCATE, AND THE ADVOCATE THE MONK.

At last M. Bernouillet came into Chicot's room, laughing
immoderately.

"He is dying," said he, "and the man has arrived from Avignon."

"Have you seen him?"

"Of course."

"What is he like?"

"Little and thin."

"It is he," thought Chicot; and he said, "Tell me about his arrival."

"An hour ago I was in the kitchen, when I saw a great horse,
ridden by a little man, stop before the door. 'Is M. Nicolas
here?' asked he. 'Yes, monsieur,' said I. 'Tell him that the
person he expects from Avignon is here.' 'Certainly, monsieur,
but I must warn you that he is very ill.' 'All the more reason
for doing my bidding at once.' 'But he has a malignant fever.'
'Oh, pray, then, be quick!' 'How! you persist?' 'I persist.'
'In spite of the danger!' 'In spite of everything I must see
him.' So I took him to the room, and there he is now. Is it not
odd?"

"Very droll."

"I wish I could hear them."

"Go in."

"He forbade me to go in, saying he was going to confess."

"Listen at the door."

Bernouillet went, and Chicot went also to his hole: but they
spoke so low that he could hear nothing, and in a few minutes
Gondy rose and took leave. Chicot ran to the window, and saw a
lackey waiting with a horse, which M. de Gondy mounted and rode
off.

"If he only has not carried off the genealogy. Never mind, I
shall soon catch him if necessary; but I suspect it is left here.
Where can Gorenflot be?"

M. Bernouillet returned, saying, "He is gone."

"The confessor?"

"He is no more a confessor than I am."

"Will you send me my brother as soon as he comes in."

"Even if he be drunk?"

"Whatever state he is in."

Bernouillet went, and Chicot remained in a state of indecision
as to what to do, for he thought, "If David is really so ill,
he may have sent on the despatches by Gondy." Presently he heard
Gorenflot's voice, singing a drinking song as he came up the
stairs.

"Silence, drunkard!" said Chicot.

"Drunkard, indeed!"

"Yes; but come here and speak seriously, if you can."

"What is it now?"

"It is, that you never think of the duties of your profession,
that you wallow in greediness and drunkenness, and let religion
go where it pleases."

Gorenflot looked astonished. "I!" he gasped.

"Yes, you; you are disgraceful to see; you are covered with mud;
you have been drunk in the streets."

"It is too true!"

"If you go on so, I will abandon you."

"Chicot, my friend, you will not do that? Am I very guilty?"

"There are archers at Lyons."

"Oh, pity! my dear protector, pity!"

"Are you a Christian or not?"

"I not a Christian!"

"Then do not let a neighbor die without confession."

"I am ready, but I must drink first, for I am thirsty."

Chicot passed him a jug of water, which he emptied.

"Now who am I to confess?"

"Our unlucky neighbor who is dying."

"Let them give him a pint of wine with honey in it."

"He needs spiritual aid as well as temporal. Go to him."

"Am I fit?" said Gorenflot, timidly.

"Perfectly."

"Then I will go."

"Stay; I must tell you what to do."

"Oh! I know."

"You do not know what I wish."

"What you wish?"

"If you execute it well, I will give you one hundred pistoles
to spend here."

"What must I do?"

"Listen; your robe gives you authority; in the name of God and
the King, summon him to give up the papers he has just received
from Avignon."

"What for?"

"To gain one hundred pistoles, stupid."

"Ah! true; I go."

"Wait a minute. He will tell you he has confessed."

"But if he has?"

"Tell him he lies; that the man who has just left him is no
confessor, but an intriguer like himself."

"But he will be angry."

"What does that matter, since he is dying?"

"True."

"Well; one way or the other, you must get hold of those papers."

"If he refuses?"

"Refuse him absolution, curse him, anathematize him----"

"Oh, I will take them by force."

"Good; and when you have got them, knock on the wall."

"And if I cannot get them?"

"Knock also."

"Then, in any case I am to knock?"

"Yes."

Gorenflot went, and Chicot placed his ear to the hole in the
wall. When Gorenflot entered, the sick man raised himself in his
bed, and looked at him with wonder.

"Good day, brother," said Gorenflot.

"What do you want, my father?" murmured the sick man, in a feeble
voice.

"My son, I hear you are in danger, and I come to speak to you
of your soul."

"Thank you, but I think your care is needless; I feel better."

"You think so?"

"I am sure of it."

"It is a ruse of Satan, who wishes you to die without confession."

"Then he will be deceived, for I have just confessed."

"To whom?"

"To a worthy priest from Avignon."

"He was not a priest."

"Not!"

"No."

"How do you know?"

"I knew him."

"You knew the man who has just gone?"

"Yes; and as you are not better, and this man was not a priest,
you must confess."

"Very well," replied the patient, in a stronger voice, "but I
will chose to whom I will confess."

"You will have no time to send for another priest, and I am here."

"How! no time, when I tell you I am getting well?"

Gorenflot shook his head. "I tell you, my son, you are condemned
by the doctors and by Providence; you may think it cruel to tell
you so, but it is what we must all come to sooner or later. Confess,
my son, confess."

"But I assure you, father, that I feel much stronger."

"A mistake, my son, the lamp flares up at the last, just before
it goes out. Come, confess all your plots, your intrigues, and
machinations!"

"My intrigues and plots!" cried David, frightened at this singular
monk, whom he did not know, but who seemed to know him so well.

"Yes; and when you have told all that, give me up the papers,
and perhaps God will let me absolve you."

"What papers?" cried the sick man, in a voice as strong as though
he were quite well.

"The papers that the pretended priest brought you from Avignon."

"And who told you that he brought me papers?" cried the patient,
putting one leg out of bed.

Gorenflot began to feel frightened, but he said firmly, "He who
told me knew well what he was saying; give me the papers, or
you shall have no absolution."

"I laugh at your absolution," cried David, jumping out of bed,
and seizing Gorenflot by the throat, "and you shall see if I
am too ill to strangle you."

Gorenflot was strong, and he pushed David back so violently that
he fell into the middle of the room. But he rose furious, and
seizing a long sword, which hung on the wall behind his clothes,
presented it to the throat of Gorenflot, who sank on a chair
in terror.

"It is now your turn to confess," said he, "speak, or you die."

"Oh!" cried Gorenflot, "then you are not ill--not dying."

"It is not for you to question, but to answer."

"To answer what?"

"Who are you?"

"You can see that."

"Your name?"

"Brother Gorenflot."

"You are then a real monk?"

"I should think so."

"What brings you to Lyons?"

"I am exiled."

"What brought you to this inn?"

"Chance."

"How long have you been here?"

"A fortnight."

"Why did you watch me?"

"I did not."

"How did you know that I had the papers?"

"Because I was told so."

"Who told you?"

"He who sent me here."

"Who was that?"

"I cannot tell you."

"You must."

"Oh! oh! I will cry out."

"And I will kill."

Gorenflot cried out, and a spot of blood appeared on the point
of the sword.

"His name?" cried David.

"Oh! I can hold out no more."

"Speak."

"It was Chicot."

"The king's jester!"

"Himself."

"And where is he?"

"Here!" cried a voice, and Chicot appeared at the door with a
drawn sword in his hand.




CHAPTER XXXII.

HOW CHICOT USED HIS SWORD.

Nicolas David, in recognizing him whom he knew to be his mortal
enemy, could not repress a movement of terror, during which Gorenflot
slipped a little to the side, crying out, "Help, friend! come to
my aid!"

"Ah, Monsieur David, it is you!" said Chicot; "I am delighted
to meet you again!" Then, turning to Gorenflot, he said, "My
good Gorenflot, your presence as monk was very necessary just
now, when we believed monsieur dying; but now that he is so well,
it is with me he must deal; therefore, do me the favor to stand
sentinel on the threshold, and prevent any one from coming in
to interrupt our little conversation." Gorenflot, who asked no
better than to go, was soon out of the room; but David, having
now recovered from his surprise, and confident in his skill as
a swordsman, stood waiting for Chicot, with his sword in his
hand and a smile on his lips.

"Dress yourself, monsieur," said Chicot; "I do not wish to take
any advantage of you. Do you know what I have come to seek in
this room?"

"The rest of the blows which I have owed you on account of the
Duc de Mayenne, since that day when you jumped so quickly out
of the window."

"No, monsieur; I know the number, and will return them. Be easy.
What I have come for is a certain genealogy which M. Pierre de
Gondy took to Avignon, without knowing what he carried, and,
equally in ignorance, brought back to you just now."

David turned pale. "What genealogy?" he said.

"That of M. de Guise, who descends, as you know, in a direct line
from Charlemagne."

"Ah, you are a spy! I thought you only a buffoon."

"Dear M. David, I will be both if you wish it: a spy to hang you,
and a buffoon to laugh at it after."

"To hang me!"

"High and dry, monsieur; I hope you do not lay claim to be beheaded
like a gentleman."

"And how will you do it?"

"Oh, very easily; I will relate the truth, for I must tell you,
dear M. David, that I assisted last month at the meeting held
in the convent of St. Genevieve."

"You!"

"Yes; I was in the confessional in front of yours, and it was
very uncomfortable there, especially as I was obliged to wait
to go out until all was finished. Therefore I heard all, saw
the coronation of M. d'Anjou, which was not very amusing; but
then the genealogy was delightful."

"Ah! you know about the genealogy?" cried David, biting his lips
with anger.

"Yes, and I found it very ingenious, especially that part about
the Salic law; only it is a misfortune to have so much intellect,
one gets hung for it; therefore, feeling myself moved with tender
pity for so ingenious a man, I said to myself, 'Shall I let this
brave M. David be hung?' and I took the resolution of traveling
with, or rather behind, you. I followed you, therefore, not without
trouble, and at last we arrived at Lyons. I entered the hotel
an hour after you, and have been in the adjoining room; look,
there is only a partition between, and, as you may imagine, I
did not travel all the way from Paris to Lyons to lose sight
of you now. I pierced a little hole, through which I had the
pleasure of watching you when I liked, and I confess I gave myself
this pleasure several times a day. At last you fell ill; the
host wished to get rid of you, but you were determined to wait
here for M. de Gondy. I was duped by you at first, for you might
really have been ill, so I sent you a brave monk, to excite you
to repentance; but, hardened sinner that you are, you tried to
kill him, forgetting the Scripture maxim, 'He who strikes with
the sword shall perish with the sword.' Then I came to you, and
said, 'We are old friends; let us arrange the matter.'"

"In what manner?"

"It would be a pity that such a man as you should disappear from
the world; give up plots, trust me, break with the Guises, give
me your papers, and, on the faith of a gentleman, I will make
your peace with the king."

"While, on the contrary, if I do not give them to you?"

"Ah! then, on the faith of a gentleman, I will kill you! But if
you give them to me, all shall be forgotten. You do not believe
me, perhaps, for your nature is bad, and you think my resentment
can never be forgotten. But, although it is true that I hate you,
I hate M. de Mayenne more; give me what will ruin him, and I will
save you. And then, perhaps, you will not believe this either,
for you love nothing; but I love the king, foolish and corrupted
as he is, and I wish that he should reign tranquilly--which is
impossible with the Mayennes and the genealogy of Nicolas David.
Therefore, give me up the genealogy, and I promise to make your
name and your fortune."

David never moved.

"Well," said Chicot, "I see all that I say to you is but wasted
breath; therefore, I go to get you hanged. Adieu, M. David,"
and he stepped backwards towards the door.

"And you think I shall let you go out," cried the advocate.

"No, no, my fine spy; no, no, Chicot, my friend, those who know
of the genealogy must die. Those who menace me must die."

"You put me quite at my ease; I hesitated only because I am sure
to kill you. Crillon, the other day, taught me a particular thrust,
only one, but that will suffice. Come, give me the papers, or
I will kill you; and I will tell you how--I will pierce your
throat just where you wished to bleed Gorenflot."

Chicot had hardly finished, when David rushed on him with a savage
laugh. The two adversaries were nearly matched in height, but
Chicot, who fenced nearly every day with the king, had become
one of the most skilful swordsmen in the kingdom. David soon
began to perceive this, and he retreated a step.

"Ah! ah!" said Chicot, "now you begin to understand. Once more;
the papers."

David, for answer, threw himself again upon Chicot, and a new
combat ensued. At last Chicot called out,--

"Here is the thrust," and as he spoke, he thrust his rapier half
through his throat.

David did not reply, but fell at Chicot's feet, pouring out a
mouthful of blood. But by a natural movement he tried to drag
himself towards his bed, so as to defend his secret to the last.

"Ah!" cried Chicot, "I thought you cunning, but I see you are
a fool. I did not know where the papers were, and you have shown
me----" and while David rolled in the agonies of death, he ran
to the bed, raised the mattress, and found under it a roll of
parchment. At the moment in which he unrolled it to see if it
was the document he sought, David raised himself in a rage and
then fell back dead. Chicot saw with joy that he held what he
wanted. The Pope had written at the bottom, "Fiat ut voluit Deus;
Deus jura hominum fecit." After placing it in his breast, he
took the body of the advocate, who had died without losing more
blood, the nature of the wound making him bleed inwardly, put
it back in the bed, turned the face to the wall, and, opening
the door, called Gorenflot.

"How pale you are!" said the monk, as he entered.

"Yes, the last moments of that man caused me some emotion."

"Then he is dead?"

"Yes."

"He was so well just now."

"Too well; he swallowed something difficult of digestion, and
died of it."

"The wretch wanted to strangle me, a holy man, and he is punished
for it."

"Pardon him, you are a Christian."

"I do, although he frightened me much."

"You must do more; you must light the lamps, and say some prayers
by his bed."

"Why?"

"That you may not be taken prisoner as his murderer."

"I, a murderer! it was he who tried to murder me."

"Mon Dieu! yes, and as he could not succeed, his rage made him
break a blood-vessel. But till your innocence is established
they might annoy you much."

"I fear you are right."

"Then do what I tell you. Install yourself here, and recite all
the prayers you know, or do not know; then, when evening comes,
go out and call at the ironmonger's at the corner of the street.
There you will find your horse; mount him, and take the road to
Paris; at Villeneuve-le-Roi sell him, and take Panurge back."

"Ah! that good Panurge; I shall be delighted to see him again.
But how am I to live?"

Chicot drew from his pocket a handful of crowns and put them into
the large hand of the monk.

"Generous man!" cried Gorenflot. "Let me stay with you at Lyons;
I love Lyons."

"But I do not stay here; I set off at once, and travel too rapidly
for you to follow me."

"So be it, then."

Chicot installed the monk by the bed, and went downstairs to the
host.

"M. Bernouillet," said he, "a great event has taken place in your
house."

"What do you mean?"

"The hateful royalist, the enemy of our religion upstairs, received
to-day a messenger from Rome."

"I know that: it was I who told you."

"Well, our holy father, the Pope, had sent him to this conspirator,
who, however, probably did not suspect for what purpose."

"And why did he come?"

"Go up-stairs, lift up the bedclothes, look at his neck, and you
will see."

"You frighten me."

"I say no more. The Pope did you honor in choosing your house
for the scene of his vengeance."

Then Chicot put ten crowns into the hand of the host, and went
down to the stable to get out the horses. M. Bernouillet went
up and found Gorenflot praying. He looked as directed, and found
the wound.

"May every enemy of our religion die thus," said he to Gorenflot.

"Amen," replied the monk.

These events passed about the same time that Bussy brought the
Baron de Meridor back to his daughter.




CHAPTER XXXIII.

HOW THE DUC D'ANJOU LEARNED THAT DIANA WAS NOT DEAD.

The month of April had arrived. The great cathedral of Chartres
was hung with white, and the king was standing barefooted in the
nave. The religious ceremonies, which were for the purpose of
praying for an heir to the throne of France, were just finishing,
when Henri, in the midst of the general silence, heard what seemed
to him a stifled laugh. He turned round to see if Chicot were
there, for he thought no one else would have dared to laugh at
such a time. It was not, however, Chicot who had laughed at the
sight of the two chemises of the Holy Virgin which were said to
have such a prolific power, and which were just being drawn from
their golden box; but it was a cavalier who had just stopped
at the door of the church, and who was making his way with his
muddy boots through the crowd of courtiers in their penitents'
robes and sacks. Seeing the king turn, he stopped for a moment,
and Henri, irritated at seeing him arrive thus, threw an angry
glance at him. The newcomer, however, continued to advance until
he reached the velvet chair of M. le Duc d'Anjou, by which he
knelt down. He, turning round, said, "Bussy!"

"Good morning, monseigneur."

"Are you mad?"

"Why so?"

"To come here to see this nonsense."

"Monseigneur, I wish to speak to you at once."

"Where have you been for the last three weeks?"

"That is just what I have to tell you."

"Well, you must wait until we leave the church."

"So much the worse."

"Patience, here is the end."

Indeed, the king was putting on one of these chemises, and the
queen another. Then they all knelt down, and afterwards the king,
taking off his holy tunic, left the church.

"Now, monseigneur," said Bussy, "shall we go to your house?"

"Yes, at once, if you have anything to tell me."

"Plenty of things which you do not expect."

When they were in the hotel the duke said, "Now sit down and tell
me all; I feared you were dead."

"Very likely, monseigneur."

"You left me to look after my beautiful unknown. Who is this woman,
and what am I to expect?"

"You will reap what you have sown, monseigneur--plenty of shame."

"What do you mean?" cried the duke.

"What I said."

"Explain yourself, monsieur; who is this woman?"

"I thought you had recognized her."

"Then it was her?"

"Yes, monseigneur."

"You saw her?"

"Yes."

"And she spoke to you?"

"Certainly. Doubtless you had reason to think her dead, and you
perhaps hoped she was so."

The duke grew pale.

"Yes, monseigneur," continued Bussy, "although you pushed to
despair a young girl of noble race, she escaped from death; but
do not breathe yet, do not think yourself absolved, for, in
preserving her life, she found a misfortune worse than death."

"What is it? what has happened to her?"

"Monseigneur, a man preserved her honor and saved her life, but
he made her pay for this service so dearly that she regrets his
having rendered it."

"Finish."

"Well, monseigneur, Mademoiselle de Meridor, to escape becoming
the mistress of the Duc d'Anjou, has thrown herself into the arms
of a man whom she detests, and is now Madame de Monsoreau."

At these words the blood rushed furiously into the duke's face.

"Is this true?" said he.

"Pardieu! I said it," said Bussy, haughtily.

"I did not mean that; I did not doubt your word, Bussy, I wondered
only if it were possible that one of my gentlemen had had the
audacity to interfere between me and a woman whom I honored with
my love."

"And why not?"

"Then you would have done so?"

"I would have done better; I would have warned you that your honor
was being lost."

"Listen, Bussy," said the prince, becoming calmer, "I do not
justify myself, but M. de Monsoreau has been a traitor towards
me."

"Towards you?"

"Yes, he knew my intentions."

"And they were?"

"To try and make Diana love me."

"Love you!"

"Yes, but in no case to use violence."

"Those were your intentions?" said Bussy, with an ironical smile.

"Certainly, and these intentions I preserved to the last, although
M. de Monsoreau constantly combated them."

"Monseigneur, what do you say! This man incited you to dishonor
Diana?"

"Yes."

"By his counsels?"

"By his letters. Would you like to see them?"

"Oh! if I could believe that!"

"You shall see."

And the duke, opening a little cabinet, and taking out a letter,
said, "Since you doubt your prince's words, read."

Bussy took it and read,--


"MONSEIGNEUR,

"Be quite easy; the coup-de-main can be executed without risk,
for the young person sets off this evening to pass a week with an
aunt who lives at the chateau of Lude. I charge myself with it,
and you need take no trouble as for the scruples of the young lady,
be sure that they will vanish in the presence of your highness:
meanwhile I act; and this evening she will be at the chateau of
Beauge.

           "Your highness's respectful servant,
                         "BRYAN DE MONSOREAU."


"Well, what do you say, Bussy?"

"I say that you are well served, monseigneur."

"You mean betrayed."

"Ah, true; I forgot the end."

"The wretch! he made me believe in the death woman----"

"Whom he stole from you; it is black enough."

"How did he manage?"

"He made the father believe you the ravisher, and offered himself
to rescue the lady, presented himself at the chateau of Beauge
with a letter from the Baron de Meridor, brought a boat to the
windows, and carried away the prisoner; then shut her up in the
house you know of, and by constantly working upon her fears,
forced her to become his wife."

"Is it not infamous?"

"Only partly excused by your conduct, monseigneur."

"Ah! Bussy, you shall see how I will revenge myself!"

"Princes do not revenge themselves, they punish," said Bussy.

"How can I punish him?"

"By restoring happiness to Madame de Monsoreau."

"But can I?"

"Certainly."

"How?"

"By restoring her to liberty. The marriage was forced, therefore
it is null."

"You are right."

"Get it set aside, then, and you will have acted like a gentleman
and a prince."

"Ah, ah!" said the prince, "what warmth! you are interested in
it, Bussy."

"I! not at all, except that I do not wish people to say that
Louis de Clermont serves a perfidious prince and a man without
honor."

"Well, you shall see. But how to do it?"

"Nothing more easy; make her father act."

"But he is buried in Anjou."

"Monseigneur, he is here in Paris."

"At your house?"

"No, with his daughter. Speak to him, monseigneur, that he may
see in you, not what he does now, an enemy, but a protector--that
he who now curses your name may bless you."

"And when can I see him?"

"As soon as you return Paris."

"Very well."

"It is agreed, then?"

"Yes."

"On your word as a gentleman?"

"On my faith as a prince."

"And when do you return?"

"This evening; will you accompany me?"

"No, I go first; where shall I meet your highness?"

"To-morrow; at the king's levee."

"I will be there, monseigneur."

Bussy did not lose a moment, and the distance that took the duke
fifteen hours to accomplish, sleeping in his litter, the young
man, who returned to Paris, his heart beating with joy and love,
did in five, to console the baron and Diana the sooner.




CHAPTER XXXIV.

HOW CHICOT RETURNED TO THE LOUVRE, AND WAS RECEIVED BY THE KING
HENRI III.

All was quiet at the Louvre, for the king, fatigued with his
pilgrimage, had not yet risen, when two men presented themselves
together at the gates.

"M. Chicot," cried the younger, "how are you this morning?"

"Ah, M. de Bussy."

"You come for the king's levee, monsieur?"

"And you also, I presume?"

"No; I come to see M. le Duc d'Anjou. You know I have not the
honor of being a favorite of his majesty's."

"The reproach is for the king, and not for you."

"Do you come from far? I heard you were traveling."

"Yes, I was hunting. And you?"

"Yes, I have been in the provinces; and now will you be good enough
to render me a service?"

"I shall be delighted."

"Well, you can penetrate into the Louvre, while I remain in the
ante-chamber; will you tell the duke I am waiting for him?"

"Why not come in with me?"

"The king would not be pleased."

"Bah!"

"Diable! he has not accustomed me to his most gracious smiles."

"Henceforth, for some time, all that will change."

"Ah, ah! are you a necromancer, M. Chicot?"

"Sometimes; come, take courage, and come in with me."

They entered together; one went towards the apartments of the
Duc d'Anjou, and the other to those of the king.

Henri was just awake, and had rung, and a crowd of valets and
friends had rushed in; already the chicken broth and the spiced
wine were served, when Chicot entered, and without saying a word,
sat down to eat and drink.

"Par la mordieu!" cried the king, delighted, although he affected
anger; "it is that knave of a Chicot, that fugitive, that vagabond!"

"What is the matter, my son?" said Chicot, placing himself on
the immense seat, embroidered with fleur-de-lis, on which the
king was seated.

"Here is my misfortune returned," said Henri; "for three weeks
I have been so tranquil."

"Bah! you always grumble. One would think you were one of your
own subjects. Let me hear, Henriquet, how you have governed this
kingdom in my absence."

"Chicot!"

"Have you hung any of your curled gentlemen? Ah! pardon, M. Quelus,
I did not see you."

"Chicot, I shall be angry," said the king; but he ended by laughing,
as he always did; so he went on: "But what has become of you? Do
you know that I have had you sought for in all the bad parts
of Paris?"

"Did you search the Louvre?"

Just then M. de Monsoreau entered.

"Ah! it is you, monsieur," said the king; "when shall we hunt
again?"

"When it shall please your majesty; I hear there are plenty of
wild boars at St. Germain en Laye."

"The wild boar is dangerous," said Chicot; "King Charles IX.,
I remember, was nearly killed by one. And then spears are sharp
also; is it not so, Henri? and do you know your chief huntsman
must have met a wolf not long ago?"

"Why so?"

"Because he has caught the likeness; it is striking."

M. de Monsoreau grew pale, and turning to Chicot, said:

"M. Chicot, I am not used to jesters, having lived little at
court, and I warn you that before my king I do not like to be
humiliated, above all when I speak of my duties."

"Well, monsieur," said Chicot, "we are not like you, we court
people laughed heartily at the last joke."

"And what was that?"

"Making you chief huntsman."

Monsoreau looked daggers at Chicot.

"Come, come," said Henri, "let us speak of something else."

"Yes, let us speak of the merits of Notre Dame de Chartres."

"Chicot, no impiety."

"I impious! it is you, on the contrary; there were two chemises
accustomed to be together, and you separated them. Join them
together and a miracle may happen."

This illusion to the estrangement of the king and queen made everyone
laugh.

Monsoreau then whispered to Chicot, "Pray withdraw with me into
that window, I wish to speak to you." When they were alone, he went
on, "Now, M. Chicot, buffoon as you are, a gentleman forbids you;
do you understand? forbids you to laugh at him, and to remember
that others may finish what M. de Mayenne began."

"Ah! you wish me to become your creditor, as I am his, and to
give you the same place in my gratitude."

"It seems to me that, among your creditors, you forget the
principal."

"Indeed, I have generally a good memory. Who may it be?"

"M. Nicolas David."

"Oh! you are wrong; he is paid."

At this moment Bussy entered.

"Monsieur," said he to the count, "M. le Duc d'Anjou desires to
speak with you."

"With me?"

"With you, monsieur."

"Do you accompany me?"

"No, I go first, to tell the duke you are coming," and he rapidly
disappeared.

"Well?" said the duke.

"He is coming."

"And he suspects nothing?"

"Nothing; but if he did, what matter? is he not your creature?
Does he seem to you less guilty than he did yesterday?"

"No, a hundred times more so."

"He has carried off, by treason, a noble young girl, and married
her equally treasonably; either he must ask for the dissolution
of the marriage himself, or you must do it for him."

"I have promised."

"I have your word?"

"You have."

"Remember that they know and are anxiously waiting."

"She shall be free, Bussy; I pledge my word."

Bussy kissed the hand which had signed so many false promises.
As he did so, M. de Monsoreau entered, and Bussy went to the
corridor, where were several other gentlemen. Here he had to
wait as patiently as might be for the result of this interview,
on which all his future happiness was at stake. He waited for
some time, when suddenly the door of the duke's room opened,
and the sound of M. de Monsoreau's voice made Bussy tremble,
for it sounded almost joyful. Soon the voices approached, and
Bussy could see M. de Monsoreau bowing and retiring, and he heard
the duke say:

"Adieu, my friend."

"My friend!" murmured Bussy.

Then Monsoreau said, "Your highness agrees with me that publicity
is best?"

"Yes, yes; an end to all mysteries."

"Then this evening I will present her to the king."

"Do so; I will prepare him."

"Gentlemen," then said Monsoreau, turning towards those in the
corridor, "allow me to announce to you a secret; monseigneur
permits me to make public my marriage with Mademoiselle Diana
de Meridor, who has been my wife for more than a month, and whom
I intend this evening to present to the court."

Bussy, who had been hidden behind a door, staggered, and almost
fell at this unexpected blow. However, he darted a glance of
contempt at the duke, towards whom he made a step, but he, in
terror, shut his door, and Bussy heard the key turn in the lock.
Feeling that if he stayed a moment longer he should betray before
everyone the violence of his grief, he ran downstairs, got on
his horse, and galloped to the Rue St. Antoine. The baron and
Diana were eagerly waiting for him, and they saw him enter pale
and trembling.

"Madame," cried he, "hate me, despise me; I believed I could do
something and I can do nothing. Madame, you are now the recognized
wife of M. de Monsoreau, and are to be presented this evening.
I am a fool--a miserable dupe, or rather, as you said, M. le
Baron, the duke is a coward and a villain."

And leaving the father and daughter overcome with grief, he rushed
wildly away.




CHAPTER XXXV.

WHAT PASSED BETWEEN M. DE MONSOREAU AND THE DUKE.

It is time to explain the duke's sudden change of intention with
regard to M. de Monsoreau. When he first received him, it was
with dispositions entirely favorable to Bussy's wishes.

"Your highness sent for me?" said Monsoreau.

"You have nothing to fear, you who have served me so well, and
are so much attached to me. Often you have told me of the plots
against me, have aided my enterprises forgetting your own interests,
and exposing your life."

"Your highness----"

"Even lately, in this last unlucky adventure----"

"What adventure, monseigneur?"

"This carrying off of Mademoiselle de Meridor--poor young creature!"

"Alas!" murmured Monsoreau.

"You pity her, do you not?" said the duke.

"Does not your highness?"

"I! you know how I have regretted this fatal caprice. And, indeed,
it required all my friendship for you, and the remembrance of
all your good services, to make me forget that without you I
should not have carried off this young girl."

Monsoreau felt the blow. "Monseigneur," said he, "your natural
goodness leads you to exaggerate, you no more caused the death
of this young girl than I did."

"How so?"

"You did not intend to use violence to Mademoiselle de Meridor."

"Certainly not."

"Then the intention absolves you; it is a misfortune, nothing
more."

"And besides," said the duke, looking at him, "death has buried
all in eternal silence."

The tone of his voice and his look struck Monsoreau. "Monseigneur,"
said he, after a moment's pause, "shall I speak frankly to you?"

"Why should you hesitate?" said the prince, with astonishment
mingled with hauteur.

"Indeed, I do not know, but your highness has not thought fit
to be frank with me."

"Really!" cried the duke, with an angry laugh.

"Monseigneur, I know what your highness meant to say to me."

"Speak, then."

"Your highness wished to make me understand that perhaps Mademoiselle
de Meridor was not dead, and that therefore those who believed
themselves her murderers might be free from remorse."

"Oh, monsieur, you have taken your time before making this consoling
reflection to me. You are a faithful servant, on my word; you
saw me sad and afflicted, you heard me speak of the wretched
dreams I had since the death of this woman, and you let me live
thus, when even a doubt might have spared me so much suffering.
How must I consider this conduct, monsieur?"

"Monseigneur, is your highness accusing me?"

"Traitor!" cried the duke, "you have deceived me; you have taken
from me this woman whom I loved----"

Monsoreau turned pale, but did not lose his proud, calm look.
"It is true," said he.

"True, knave!"

"Please to speak lower, monseigneur; your highness forgets, that
you speak to a gentleman and an old servant."

The duke laughed.

"My excuse is," continued he, "that I loved Mademoiselle de Meridor
ardently."

"I, also," replied Francois, with dignity.

"It is true, monseigneur; but she did not love you."

"And she loved you?"

"Perhaps."

"You lie! you know you lie! You used force as I did; only I, the
master, failed, while you, the servant, succeeded by treason."

"Monseigneur, I loved her."

"What do I care?"

"Monseigneur, take care. I loved her, and I am not a servant.
My wife is mine, and no one can take her from me, not even the
king. I wished to have her, and I took her."

"You took her! Well! you shall give her up."

"You are wrong, monseigneur. And do not call," continue he, stopping
him, "for if you call once--if you do me a public injury----"

"You shall give up this woman."

"Give her up! she is my wife before God----"

"If she is your wife before God, you shall give her up before
men. I know all, and I will break this marriage, I tell you.
To-morrow, Mademoiselle de Meridor shall be restored to her father;
you shall set off into the exile I impose on you; you shall have
sold your place; these are my conditions, and take care, or I will
break you as I break this glass." And he threw down violently
a crystal cup.

"I will not give up my wife, I will not give up my place, and
I will remain in France," replied Monsoreau.

"You will not?"

"No, I will ask my pardon of the King of France--of the king
anointed at the Abbey of St. Genevieve; and this new sovereign
will not, I am sure, refuse the first request proffered to him."
Francois grew deadly pale, and nearly fell.

"Well, well," stammered he, "this request, speak lower--I listen."

"I will speak humbly, as becomes the servant of your highness.
A fatal love was the cause of all. Love is the most imperious
of the passions. To make me forget that your highness had cast
your eyes on Diana, I must have been no longer master of myself."

"It was a treason."

"Do not overwhelm me, monseigneur; I saw you rich, young and
happy, the first Christian prince in the world. For you are so,
and between you and supreme rank there is now only a shadow easy
to dispel. I saw all the splendor of your future, and, comparing
your proud position with my humble one, I said, 'Leave to the
prince his brilliant prospects and splendid projects, scarcely
will he miss the pearl that I steal from his royal crown.'"

"Comte! comte!"

"You pardon me, monseigneur, do you not?"

At this moment the duke raised his eyes, and saw Bussy's portrait
on the wall. It seemed to exhort him to courage, and he said, "No,
I cannot pardon you; it is not for myself that I hold out, it is
because a father in mourning--a father unworthily deceived--cries
out for his daughter; because a woman, forced to marry you, cries
for vengeance against you; because, in a word, the first duty
of a prince is justice."

"Monseigneur, if justice be a duty, gratitude is not less so;
and a king should never forget those to whom he owes his crown.
Now, monseigneur, you owe your crown to me."

"Monsoreau!" cried the duke, in terror.

"But I cling to those only who cling to me."

"I cannot--you are a gentleman, you know I cannot approve of
what you have done. My dear count, this one more sacrifice; I
will recompense you for it; I will give you all you ask."

"Then your highness loves her still!" cried Monsoreau, pale with
jealousy.

"No, I swear I do not."

"Then, why should I? I am a gentleman; who can enter into the
secrets of my private life?"

"But she does not love you."

"What matter?"

"Do this for me, Monsoreau."

"I cannot."

"Then----" commenced the duke, who was terribly perplexed.

"Reflect, sire."

"You will denounce me?"

"To the king dethroned for you, yes; for if my new king destroyed
my honor and happiness, I would return to the old."

"It is infamous."

"True, sire; but I love enough to be infamous."

"It is cowardly."

"Yes, your majesty, but I love enough to be cowardly. Come,
monseigneur, do something for the man who has served you so well."

"What do you want?"

"That you should pardon me."

"I will."

"That you should reconcile me with M. de Meridor."

"I will try."

"That you will sign my marriage contract with Mademoiselle de
Meridor."

"Yes," said the prince, in a hoarse voice.

"And that you shall honor my wife with a smile when I shall present
her to his majesty."

"Yes; is that all?"

"All, monseigneur."

"You have my word."

"And you shall keep the throne to which I have raised you.--There
remains now, only," thought Monsoreau, "to find out who told
the duke."




CHAPTER XXXVI.

CHICOT AND THE KING.

That same evening M. de Monsoreau presented his wife in the queen's
circle. Henri, tired, had gone to bed, but after sleeping three or
four hours, he woke, and feeling no longer sleepy, proceeded to
the room where Chicot slept, which was the one formerly occupied
by St. Luc; Chicot slept soundly, and the king called him three
times before he woke. At last he opened his eyes and cried out,
"What is it?"

"Chicot, my friend, it is I."

"You; who?"

"I, Henri."

"Decidedly, my son, the pheasants must have disagreed with you;
I warned you at supper, but you would eat so much of them, as
well as of those crabs."

"No; I scarcely tasted them."

"Then you are poisoned, perhaps. Ventre de biche! how pale you
are!"

"It is my mask," said the king.

"Then you are not ill?"

"No."

"Then why wake me?"

"Because I am annoyed."

"Annoyed! if you wake a man at two o'clock in the morning, at
least you should bring him a present. Have you anything for me?"

"No; I come to talk to you."

"That is not enough."

"Chicot, M. de Morvilliers came here last evening."

"What for?"

"To ask for an audience. What can he want to say to me, Chicot?"

"What! it is only to ask that, that you wake me?"

"Chicot, you know he occupies himself with the police."

"No; I did not know it."

"Do you doubt his watchfulness?"

"Yes, I do, and I have my reasons."

"What are they?"

"Will one suffice you?"

"Yes, if it be good."

"And you will leave me in peace afterwards?"

"Certainly."

"Well, one day--no, it was one evening, I beat you in the Rue
Foidmentel; you had with you Quelus and Schomberg."

"You beat me?"

"Yes, all three of you."

"How, it was you! wretch!"

"I, myself," said Chicot, rubbing his hands, "do I not hit hard?"

"Wretch!"

"You confess, it was true?"

"You know it is, villain."

"Did you send for M. de Morvilliers the next day?"

"You know I did, for you were there when he came."

"And you told him the accident that had happened to one of your
friends?"

"Yes."

"And you ordered him to find out the criminal?"

"Yes."

"Did he find him?"

"No."

"Well, then, go to bed, Henri; you see your police is bad." And,
turning round, Chicot refused to say another word, and was soon
snoring again.

The next day the council assembled. It consisted of Quelus, Maugiron,
D'Epernon, and Schomberg. Chicot, seated at the head of the table,
was making paper boats, and arranging them in a fleet. M. de
Morvilliers was announced, and came in, looking grave.

"Am I," said he, "before your majesty's council?"

"Yes, before my best friends; speak freely."

"Well, sire, I have a terrible plot to denounce to your majesty."

"A plot!" cried all.

"Yes, your majesty."

"Oh, is it a Spanish plot?"

At this moment the Duc d'Anjou, who had been summoned to attend
the council, entered.

"My brother," said Henri, "M. de Morvilliers comes to announce
a plot to us."

The duke threw a suspicious glance round him. "Is it possible?"
he said.

"Alas, yes, monseigneur," said M. de Morvilliers.

"Tell us all about it," said Chicot.

"Yes," stammered the duke, "tell us all about it, monsieur."

"I listen," said Henri.

"Sire, for some time I have been watching some malcontents, but
they were shopkeepers, or junior clerks, a few monks and students."

"That is not much," said Chicot.

"I know that malcontents always make use either of war or of
religion."

"Very sensible!" said the king.

"I put men on the watch, and at last I succeeded in persuading
a man from the provosty of Paris to watch the preachers, who go
about exciting the people against your majesty. They are prompted
by a party hostile to your majesty, and this party I have studied,
and now I know their hopes," added he, triumphantly. "I have men
in my pay, greedy, it is true, who, for a good sum of money,
promised to let me know of the first meeting of the conspirators."

"Oh! never mind money, but let us hear the aim of this conspiracy."

"Sire, they think of nothing less than a second St. Bartholomew."

"Against whom?"

"Against the Huguenots."

"What have you paid for your secret?" said Chicot.

"One hundred and sixty thousand livres."

Chicot turned to the king, saying, "If you like, for one thousand
crowns, I will tell you all the secrets of M. de Morvilliers."

"Speak."

"It is simply the League, instituted ten years ago; M. de Morvilliers
has discovered what every Parisian knows as well as his _ave_."

"Monsieur," interrupted the chancellor.

"I speak the truth, and I will prove it," cried Chicot.

"Tell me, then, their place of meeting."

"Firstly, the public streets; secondly, the public streets."

"M. Chicot is joking," said the chancellor; "tell me their rallying
sign."

"They are dressed like Parisians, and shake their legs when they
walk."

A burst of laughter followed this speech; then M. de Morvilliers
said, "They have had one meeting-place which M. Chicot does not
know of."

"Where?" asked the king.

"The Abbey of St. Genevieve."

"Impossible!" murmured the duke.

"It is true," said M. de Morvilliers, triumphantly.

"What did they decide?" asked the king.

"That the Leaguers should choose chiefs, that every one should
arm, that every province should receive a deputy from the
conspirators, and that all the Huguenots cherished by his majesty
(that was their expression)----"

The king smiled.

"Should be massacred on a given day."

"Is that all?" said the duke.

"No, monseigneur."

"I should hope not," said Chicot; "if the king got only that
for one hundred and sixty thousand livres, it would be a shame."

"There are chiefs----"

The Duc d'Anjou could not repress a start.

"What!" cried Chicot, "a conspiracy that has chiefs! how wonderful!
But we ought to have more than that for one hundred and sixty
thousand livres."

"Their names?" asked the king.

"Firstly, a fanatic preacher; I gave ten thousand livres for his
name."

"Very well."

"A monk called Gorenflot."

"Poor devil!" said Chicot.

"Gorenflot?" said the king, writing down the name; "afterwards----"

"Oh!" said the chancellor, with hesitation, "that is all." And
he looked round as if to say, "If your majesty were alone, you
should hear more."

"Speak, chancellor," said the king, "I have none but friends here."

"Oh! sire, I hesitate to pronounce such powerful names."

"Are they more powerful than I am?" cried the king.

"No, sire; but one does not tell secrets in public."

"Monsieur," said the Duc d'Anjou, "we will retire."

The king signed to the chancellor to approach him, and to the
duke to remain. M. de Morvilliers had just bent over the king to
whisper his communication, when a great clamor was heard in the
court of the Louvre. The king jumped up, but Chicot, running to
the window, called out, "It is M. de Guise entering the Louvre."

"The Duc de Guise," stammered the Duc d'Anjou.

"How strange that he should be in Paris," said the king, reading
the truth in M. de Morvilliers' look. "Was it of him you were
about to speak?" he asked.

"Yes, sire; he presided over the meeting."

"And the others?"

"I know no more."

"You need not write that name on your tablets! you will not forget
it," whispered Chicot.

The Duc de Guise advanced, smiling, to see the king.




CHAPTER XXXVII.

WHAT M. DE GUISE CAME TO DO AT THE LOUVRE.

Behind M. de Guise there entered a great number of officers,
courtiers, and gentlemen, and behind them a concourse of the
people; an escort less brilliant, but more formidable, and it was
their cries that had resounded as the duke entered the Louvre.

"Ah! it is you, my cousin," said the king; "what a noise you bring
with you! Did I not hear the trumpets sound?"

"Sire, the trumpets sound in Paris only for the king, and in
campaigns for the general. Here the trumpets would make too much
noise for a subject; there they do not make enough for a prince."

Henri bit his lips. "Have you arrived from the siege of La Charite
only to-day?"

"Only to-day, sire," replied the duke, with a heightened color.

"Ma foi! your visit is a great honor to us."

"Your majesty jests, no doubt. How can my visit honor him from
whom all honor comes?"

"I mean, M. de Guise," replied Henri, "that every good Catholic
is in the habit, on returning from a campaign, to visit God first
in one of his temple's--the king only comes second. 'Honor God,
serve the king,' you know, my cousin."

The heightened color of the duke became now still more distinct;
and the king, happening to turn towards his brother, saw with
astonishment, that he was as pale as the duke was red. He was
struck by this emotion in each, but he said:

"At all events, duke, nothing equals my joy to see that you have
escaped all the dangers of war, although you sought them, I was
told in the rashest manner; but danger knows you and flies you."

The duke bowed.

"But I must beg you, my cousin, not to be so ambitious of mortal
perils, for you put to shame sluggards like us, who sleep, eat,
and invent new prayers."

"Yes, sire," replied the duke, "we know you to be a pious prince,
and that no pleasure can make you forget the glory of God and
the interests of the Church. That is why we have come with so
much confidence to your majesty."

"With confidence! Do you not always come to me with confidence,
my cousin?"

"Sire, the confidence of which I speak refers to the proposition
I am about to make to you."

"You have a proposition to make to me! Well, speak, as you say,
with confidence. What have you to propose?"

"The execution of one of the most beautiful ideas which has been
originated since the Crusades."

"Continue, duke."

"Sire, the title of most Christian king is not a vain one; it
makes an ardent zeal for religion incumbent on its possessor."

"Is the Church menaced by the Saracens once more?"

"Sire, the great concourse of people who followed me, blessing
my name, honored me with this reception only because of my zeal
to defend the Church. I have already had the honor of speaking
to your majesty of an alliance between all true Catholics."

"Yes, yes," said Chicot, "the League; ventre de biche, Henri,
the League. By St. Bartholomew! how can you forget so splendid
an idea, my son?"

The duke cast a disdainful glance on Chicot, while d'Anjou, who
stood by, as pale as death, tried by signs, to make the duke stop.

"Look at your brother, Henri," whispered Chicot.

"Sire," continued the Duc de Guise, "the Catholics have indeed
called this association the Holy League, and its aim is to fortify
the throne against the Huguenots, its mortal enemies; but to
form an association is not enough, and in a kingdom like France,
several millions of men cannot assemble without the consent of
the king."

"Several millions!" cried Henri, almost with terror.

"Several millions!" repeated Chicot; "a small number of malcontents,
which may bring forth pretty results."

"Sire," cried the duke, "I am astonished that your majesty allows
me to be interrupted so often, when I am speaking on serious
matters."

"Quite right," said Chicot; "silence there."

"Several millions!" repeated the king; "and against these millions,
how many Huguenots are there in my kingdom?"

"Four," said Chicot.

This new sally made the king and his friends laugh, but the duke
frowned, and his gentlemen murmured loudly.

Henri, becoming once more serious, said, "Well, duke, what do
you wish? To the point."

"I wish, sire--for your popularity is dearer to me than my own--that
your majesty should be superior to us in your zeal for religion--I
wish you to choose a chief for the League."

"Well!" said the king, to those who surrounded him, "what do you
think of it, my friends?"

Chicot, without saying a word, drew out a lion's skin from a corner,
and threw himself on it.

"What are you doing, Chicot?" asked the king.

"Sire, they say that night brings good counsel; that must be
because of sleep; therefore I am going to sleep, and to-morrow
I will reply to my cousin Guise."

The duke cast a furious glance on Chicot, who replied by a loud
snore.

"Well, sire!" said the duke, "what does your majesty say?"

"I think that, as usual, you are in the right, my cousin; convoke,
then, your principal leaguers, come at their head, and I will
choose the chief."

"When, sire?"

"To-morrow."

The Duc de Guise then took leave, and the Duc d'Anjou was about
to do the same, when the king said,--

"Stay, my brother, I wish to speak to you."




CHAPTER XXXVIII.

CASTOR AND POLLUX.

The king dismissed all his favorites, and remained with his brother.
The duke, who had managed to preserve a tolerably composed
countenance throughout, believed himself unsuspected, and remained
without fear.

"My brother," said Henri, after assuring himself that, with the
exception of Chicot, no one remained in the room, "do you know
that I am a very happy prince?"

"Sire, if your majesty be really happy, it is a recompense from
Heaven for your merits."

"Yes, happy," continued the king, "for if great ideas do not
come to me, they do to my subjects. It is a great idea which has
occurred to my cousin Guise."

The duke make a sign of assent, and Chicot opened his eyes to
watch the king's face.

"Indeed," continued Henri, "to unite under one banner all the
Catholics, to arm all France on this pretext from Calais to
Languedoc, from Bretagne to Burgundy, so that I shall always
have an army ready to march against England, Holland, or Spain,
without alarming any of them--do you know, Francois, it is a
magnificent idea?"

"Is it not, sire?" said the duke, delighted.

"Yes, I confess I feel tempted to reward largely the author of
this fine project."

Chicot opened his eyes, but he shut them again, for he had seen
on the face of the king one of his almost imperceptible smiles,
and he was satisfied.

"Yes," continued Henri, "I repeat such a project merits recompense,
and I will do what I can for the author of this good work, for
the work is begun--is it not, my brother?"

The duke confessed that it was.

"Better and better; my subjects not only conceive these good
ideas, but, in their anxiety to be of use to me, hasten to put
them in execution. But I ask you, my dear Francois, if it be
really to the Duc de Guise that I am indebted for this royal
thought?"

"No, sire, it occurred to the Cardinal de Lorraine twenty years
ago, only the St. Bartholomew rendered it needless for the time."

"Ah! what a pity he is dead; but," continued Henri, with that
air of frankness which made him the first comedian of the day,
"his nephew has inherited it, and brought it to bear. What can
I do for him?"

"Sire," said Francois, completely duped by his brother, "you
exaggerate his merits. He has, as I say, but inherited the idea,
and another man has given him great help in developing it."

"His brother the cardinal?"

"Doubtless he has been occupied with it, but I do not mean him."

"Mayenne, then?"

"Oh! sire, you do him too much honor."

"True, how could any good ideas come to such a butcher? But to
whom, then, am I to be grateful for aid to my cousin Guise?"

"To me, sire."

"To you!" cried Henri, as if in astonishment. "How! when I saw
all the world unchained against me, the preachers against my
vices, the poets against my weaknesses, while my friends laughed
at my powerlessness, and my situation was so harassing, that
it gave me gray hairs every day: such an idea came to you,
Francois--to you, whom I confess, for man is feeble and kings are
blind, I did not always believe to be my friend! Ah! Francois,
how guilty I have been." And Henri, moved even to tears, held
out his hand to his brother.

Chicot opened his eyes again.

"Oh!" continued Henri, "the idea is triumphant. Not being able
to raise troops without raising an outcry, scarcely to walk,
sleep, or love, without exciting ridicule, this idea gives me
at once an army, money, friends, and repose. But my cousin spake
of a chief?"

"Yes, doubtless."

"This chief, you understand, Francois, cannot be one of my favorites;
none of them has at once the head and the heart necessary for
so important a post. Quelus is brave, but is occupied only by
his amours. Maugiron is also brave, but he thinks only of his
toilette. Schomberg also, but he is not clever. D'Epernon is
a valiant man, but he is a hypocrite, whom I could not trust,
although I am friendly to him. But you know, Francois, that one
of the heaviest taxes on a king is the necessity of dissimulation;
therefore, when I can speak freely from my heart, as I do now,
I breathe. Well, then, if my cousin Guise originated this idea,
to the development of which you have assisted, the execution
of it belongs to him."

"What do you say, sire?" said Francois, uneasily.

"I say, that to direct such a movement we must have a prince of
high rank."

"Sire, take care."

"A good captain and a skilful negotiator."

"The last particularly."

"Well, is not M. de Guise all this?"

"My brother, he is very powerful already."

"Yes, doubtless; but his power makes my strength."

"He holds already the army and the bourgeois; the cardinal holds
the Church, and Mayenne is their instrument; it is a great deal
of power to be concentrated in one family."

"It is true, Francois; I had thought of that."

"If the Guises were French princes, their interest would be to
aggrandize France."

"Yes, but they are Lorraines."

"Of a house always rival to yours."

"Yes, Francois; you have touched the sore. I did not think you
so good a politician. Yes, there does not pass a day but one or
other of these Guises, either by address or by force, carries
away from me some particle of my power. Ah! Francois, if we had
but had this explanation sooner, if I had been able to read your
heart as I do now, certain of support in you, I might have resisted
better, but now it is too late."

"Why so?"

"Because all combats fatigue me; therefore I must make him chief
of the League."

"You will be wrong, brother."

"But who could I name, Francois? who would accept this perilous
post? Yes, perilous; for do you not see that he intended me to
appoint him chief, and that, should I name any one else to the
post, he would treat him as an enemy?"

"Name some one so powerful that, supported by you, he need not
fear all the three Lorraine princes together."

"Ah, my good brother, I know no such person."

"Look round you, brother."

"I know no one but you and Chicot who are really my friends."

"Well, brother."

Henri looked at the duke as if a veil had fallen from his eyes.
"Surely you would never consent, brother! It is not you who could
teach all these bourgeois their exercise, who could look over
the discourses of the preachers, who, in case of battle, would
play the butcher in the streets of Paris; for all this, one must
be triple, like the duke, and have a right arm called Charles
and a left called Louis. What! you would like all this? You, the
first gentleman of our court! Mort de ma vie! how people change
with the age!"

"Perhaps I would not do it for myself, brother, but I would do
it for you."

"Excellent brother!" said Henri, wiping away a tear which never
existed.

"Then," said the duke, "it would not displease you for me to assume
this post?"

"Displease me! On the contrary, it would charm me."

Francois trembled with joy. "Oh! if your majesty thinks me worthy
of this confidence."

"Confidence! When you are the chief, what have I to fear? The
League itself? That cannot be dangerous can it, Francois?"

"Oh, sire?"

"No, for then you would not be chief, or at least, when you are
chief, there will be no danger. But, Francois, the duke is doubtless
certain of this appointment, and he will not lightly give way."

"Sire, you grant me the command?"

"Certainly."

"And you wish me to have it?"

"Particularly; but I dare not too much displease M. de Guise."

"Oh, make yourself easy, sire; if that be the only obstacle, I
pledge myself to arrange it."

"When?"

"At once."

"Are you going to him? That will be doing him too much honor."

"No, sire; he is waiting for me."

"Where?"

"In my room."

"Your room! I heard the cries of the people as he left the Louvre."

"Yes; but after going out at the great door he came back by the
postern. The king had the right to the first visit, but I to
the second."

"Ah, brother, I thank you for keeping up our prerogative, which
I had the weakness so often to abandon. Go, then, Francois, and
do your best."

Francois bent down to kiss the king's hand, but he, opening his
arms, gave him a warm embrace, and then the duke left the room
to go to his interview with the Duc de Guise. The king, seeing
his brother gone, gave an angry growl, and rapidly made his way
through the secret corridor, until he reached a hiding-place
whence he could distinctly hear the conversation between the two
dukes.

"Ventre de biche!" cried Chicot, starting up, "how touching these
family scenes are! For an instant I believed myself in Olympus,
assisting at the reunion of Castor and Pollux after six months'
separation."




CHAPTER XXXIX.

IN WHICH IT IS PROVED THAT LISTENING IS THE BEST WAY TO HEAR.

The Duc d'Anjou was well aware that there were few rooms in the
Louvre which were not built so that what was said in them could be
heard from the outside; but, completely seduced by his brother's
manner, he forgot to take any precautions.

"Why, monseigneur," said the Duc de Guise. "how pale you are!"

"Visibly?"

"Yes, to me."

"The king saw nothing?"

"I think not; but he retained you?"

"Yes."

"And what did he say, monseigneur?"

"He approves the idea, but the more gigantic it appears, the more
he hesitates to place a man like you at the head."

"Then we are likely to fail."

"I fear so, my dear duke; the League seems likely to fail."

"Before it begins."

At this moment Henri, hearing a noise, turned and saw Chicot
by his side, listening also. "You followed me, Knave!" said he.

"Hush, my son," said Chicot; "you prevent me from hearing."

"Monseigneur," said the Duc de Guise, "it seems to me that in
this case the king would have refused at once. Does he wish to
dispossess me?"

"I believe so."

"Then he would ruin the enterprise?"

"Yes; but I aided you with all my power."

"How, monseigneur?"

"In this--the king has left me almost master, to kill or reanimate
the League."

"How so?" cried the duke, with sparkling eyes.

"Why, if, instead of dissolving the League, he named me chief----"

"Ah!" cried the duke, while the blood mounted to his face.

"Ah! the dogs are going to fight over their bones," said Chicot;
but to his surprise, and the king's, the Duc de Guise suddenly
became calm, and exclaimed, in an almost joyful tone:

"You are an adroit politician, monseigneur, if you did this."

"Yes, I did; but I would not conclude anything without speaking
to you."

"Why so, monseigneur?"

"Because I did not know what it would lead us to."

"Well, I will tell you, monseigneur, not to what it will lead
us--that God alone knows--but how it will serve us. The League
is a second army, and as I hold the first, and my brother the
Church, nothing can resist us as long as we are united."

"Without counting," said the Duc d'Anjou, "that I am heir presumptive
to the throne."

"True, but still calculate your bad chances."

"I have done so a hundred times."

"There is, first, the King of Navarre."

"Oh! I do not mind him; he is entirely occupied by his amours
with La Fosseuse."

"He, monseigneur, will dispute every inch with you; he watches
you and your brother; he hungers for the throne. If any accident
should happen to your brother, see if he will not be here with
a bound from Pau to Paris."

"An accident to my brother," repeated Francois.

"Listen, Henri," said Chicot.

"Yes, monseigneur," said the Duc de Guise, "an accident. Accidents
are not rare in your family; you know that, as well as I do.
One prince is in good health, and all at once he falls ill of
a lingering malady; another is counting on long years, when,
perhaps, he has but a few hours to live."

"Do you hear, Henri?" said Chicot, taking the hand of the king,
who shuddered at what he heard.

"Yes, it is true," said the Duc d'Anjou, "the princes of my house
are born under fatal influences; but my brother Henri is, thank
God, strong and well; he supported formerly the fatigues of war,
and now that his life is nothing but recreation--"

"Yes; but, monseigneur, remember one thing; these recreations
are not always without danger. How did your father, Henri II.,
die, for example? He, who also had happily escaped the dangers
of war. The wound by M. de Montgomery's lance was an accident.
Then your poor brother, Francois, one would hardly call a pain
in the ears an accident, and yet it was one; at least, I have
often heard it said that this mortal malady was poured into his
ear by some one well known."

"Duke!" murmured Francois, reddening.

"Yes, monseigneur; the name of king has long brought misfortune
with it. Look at Antoine de Bourbon, who died from a spot in
the shoulder. Then there was Jeanne d'Albret, the mother of the
Bearnais, who died from smelling a pair of perfumed gloves, an
accident very unexpected although there were people who had great
interest in this death. Then Charles IX., who died neither by
the eye, the ear, nor the shoulder, but by the mouth----"

"What do you say?" cried Francois, starting back.

"Yes, monseigneur, by the mouth. Those hunting books are very
dangerous, of which the pages stick together, and can only be
opened by wetting the finger constantly."

"Duke! duke! I believe you invent crimes."

"Crimes! who speaks of crimes? I speak of accidents. Was it not
also an accident that happened to Charles IX. at the chase? You
know what chase I mean; that of the boar, where, intending to
kill the wild boar, which had turned on your brother, you, who
never before had missed your aim, did so then, and the king would
have been killed, as he had fallen from his horse, had not Henri
of Navarre slain the animal which you had missed."

"But," said the Duc d'Anjou, trying to recover himself, "what
interest could I have had in the death of Charles IX., when the
next king would be Henri III.?"

"Oh! monseigneur, there was already one throne vacant, that of
Poland. The death of Charles IX. would have left another, that
of France; and even the kingdom of Poland might not have been
despised. Besides, the death of Charles would have brought you
a degree nearer the throne, and the next accident would have
benefited you."

"What do you conclude from all this, duke?" said the Duc d'Anjou.

"Monseigneur, I conclude that each king has his accident, and
that you are the inevitable accident of Henri III., particularly
if you are chief of the League."

"Then I am to accept?"

"Oh! I beg you to do so."

"And you?"

"Oh! be easy; my men are ready, and to-night Paris will be curious."

"What are they going to do in Paris to-night?" asked Henri.

"Oh! how foolish you are, my friend; to-night they sign the League
publicly."

"It is well," said the Duc d'Anjou, "till this evening then."

"Yes, till this evening," said Henri.

"How!" said Chicot, "you will not risk going into the streets
to-night?"

"Yes, I shall."

"You are wrong, Henri; remember the accidents."

"Oh! I shall be well accompanied; will you come with me?"

"What! do you take me for a Huguenot? I shall go and sign the
League ten times. However, Henri, you have a great advantage over
your predecessors, in being warned, for you know your brother,
do you not?"

"Yes, and, mordieu! before long he shall find it out."




CHAPTER XI.

THE EVENING OF THE LEAGUE.

Paris presented a fine sight, as through its then narrow streets
thousands of people pressed towards the same point, for at eight
o'clock in the evening, M. le Duc de Guise was to receive the
signatures of the bourgeois to the League. A crowd of citizens,
dressed in their best clothes, as for a fete, but fully armed,
directed their steps towards the churches. What added to the
noise and confusion was that large numbers of women, disdaining
to stay at home on such a great day, had followed their husbands,
and many had brought with them a whole batch of children. It was
in the Rue de l'Arbre Sec that the crowd was the thickest. The
streets were literally choked, and the crowd pressed tumultuously
towards a bright light suspended below the sign of the Belle
Etoile. On the threshold a man, with a cotton cap on his head
and a naked sword in one hand and a register in the other, was
crying out, "Come come, brave Catholics, enter the hotel of the
Belle Etoile, where you will find good wine; come, to-night the
good will be separated from the bad, and to-morrow morning the
wheat will be known from the tares; come, gentlemen, you who
can write, come and sign;--you who cannot write, come and tell
your names to me, La Huriere; vive la messe!" A tall man elbowed
his way through the crowd, and in letters half an inch high, wrote
his name, 'Chicot.' Then, turning to La Huriere, he asked if he
had not another register to sign. La Huriere did not understand
raillery, and answered angrily. Chicot retorted, and a quarrel
seemed approaching, when Chicot, feeling some one touch his arm,
turned, and saw the king disguised as a simple bourgeois, and
accompanied by Quelus and Maugiron, also disguised, and carrying
an arquebuse on their shoulders.

"What!" cried the king, "good Catholics disputing among themselves;
par la mordieu, it is a bad example."

"Do not mix yourself with what does not concern you," replied
Chicot, without seeming to recognize him. But a new influx of
the crowd distracted the attention of La Huriere, and separated
the king and his companions from the hotel.

"Why are you here, sire?" said Chicot.

"Do you think I have anything to fear?"

"Eh! mon Dieu! in a crowd like this it is so easy for one man
to put a knife into his neighbor, and who just utters an oath
and gives up the ghost."

"Have I been seen?"

"I think not; but you will be if you stay longer. Go back to the
Louvre, sire."

"Oh! oh! what is this new outcry, and what are the people running
for?"

Chicot looked, but could at first see nothing but a mass of people
crying, howling, and pushing. At last the mass opened, and a monk,
mounted on a donkey, appeared. The monk spoke and gesticulated,
and the ass brayed.

"Ventre de biche!" cried Chicot, "listen to the preacher."

"A preacher on a donkey!" cried Quelus.

"Why not?"

"He is Silenus," said Maugiron.

"Which is the preacher?" said the king, "for they speak both at
once."

"The underneath one is the most eloquent," said Chicot, "but the
one at the top speaks the best French; listen, Henri."

"My brethren," said the monk, "Paris is a superb city; Paris is
the pride of France, and the Parisians a fine people." Then he
began to sing, but the ass mingled his accompaniment so loudly
that he was obliged to stop. The crowd burst out laughing.

"Hold your tongue, Panurge, hold your tongue," cried the monk,
"you shall speak after, but let me speak first."

The ass was quiet.

"My brothers," continued the preacher, "the earth is a valley
of grief, where man often pan quench his thirst only with his
tears."

"He is drunk," said the king.

"I should think so."

"I, who speak to you," continued the monk, "I am returning from
exile like the Hebrews of old, and for eight days Panurge and
I have been living on alms and privations."

"Who is Panurge?" asked the king.

"The superior of his convent, probably but let me listen."

"Who made me endure this? It was Herod; you know what Herod I
speak of. I and Panurge have come from Villeneuve-le-Roi, in
three days, to assist at this great solemnity; now we see, but
we do not understand. What is passing, my brothers? Is it to-day
that they depose Herod? Is it to-day that they put brother Henri
in a convent?--Gentlemen," continued he, "I left Paris with two
friends; Panurge, who is my ass, and Chicot, who is his majesty's
jester. Can you tell me what has become of my friend Chicot?"

Chicot made a grimace.

"Oh," said the king, "he is your friend." Quelus and Maugiron
burst out laughing. "He is handsome and respectable," continued
the king.

"It is Gorenflot, of whom M. de Morvilliers spoke to you."

"The incendiary of St. Genevieve?"

"Himself!"

"Then I will have him hanged!"

"Impossible!"

"Why?"

"He has no neck."

"My brothers," continued Gorenflot: "I am a true martyr, and it
is my cause that they defend at this moment or, rather, that
of all good Catholics. You do not know what is passing in the
provinces, we have been obliged at Lyons to kill a Huguenot who
preached revolt. While one of them remains in France, there will
be no tranquillity for us. Let us exterminate them. To arms!
to arms!"

Several voices repeated, "To arms!"

"Par la mordieu!" said the king, "make this fellow hold his tongue,
or he will make a second St. Bartholomew!"

"Wait," said Chicot, and with his stick he struck Gorenflot with
all his force on the shoulders.

"Murder!" cried the monk.

"It is you!" cried Chicot.

"Help me, M. Chicot, help me! The enemies of the faith wish to
assassinate me, but I will not die without making my voice heard.
Death to the Huguenots!"

"Will you hold your tongue?" cried Chicot. But at this moment
a second blow fell on the shoulders of the monk with such force
that he cried out with real pain. Chicot, astonished, looked
round him, but saw nothing but the stick. The blow had been given
by a man who had immediately disappeared in the crowd after
administering this punishment.

"Who the devil could it have been?" thought Chicot, and he began
to run after the man, who was gliding away, followed by only
one companion.




CHAPTER XLI.

THE RUE DE LA FERRONNERIE.

Chicot had good legs, and he would have made the best use of them
to join the man who had beaten Gorenflot if he had not imagined
that there might be danger in trying to recognize a man who so
evidently wished to avoid it. He thought the best way not to
seem to watch them was to pass them; so he ran on, and passed
them at the corner of the Rue Tirechappe, and then hid himself
at the end of the Rue des Bourdonnais. The two men went on, their
hats slouched over their eyes, and their cloaks drawn up over
their faces, with a quick and military step, until they reached
the Rue de la Ferronnerie. There they stopped and looked round
them. Chicot, who was still ahead, saw in the middle of the street,
before a house so old that it looked falling to pieces, a litter,
attached to which were two horses. The driver had fallen asleep,
while a woman, apparently unquiet, was looking anxiously through
the blind. Chicot hid himself behind a large atone wall, which
served as stalls for the vegetable sellers on the days when the
market was held in this street, and watched. Scarcely was he
hidden, when he saw the two men approach the litter, one of whom,
on seeing the driver asleep, uttered an impatient exclamation, while
the other pushed him to awaken him. "Oh, they are compatriots!"
thought Chicot. The lady now leaned out of the window, and Chicot
saw that she was young, very pale, but very beautiful. The two
men approached the litter, and the taller of the two took in
both of his the little white hand which was stretched out to him.

"Well, ma mie," asked he, "how are you?"

"I have been very anxious," replied she.

"Why the devil did you bring madame to Paris?" said the other
man rudely.

"Ma foi! it is a malediction that you must always have a petticoat
tacked to your doublet!"

"Ah, dear Agrippa," replied the man who had spoken first, "it
is so great a grief to part from one you love."

"On my soul, you make me swear to hear you talk! Did you come
to Paris to make love? It seems to me that Bearn is large enough
for your sentimental promenades, without continuing them in this
Babylon, where you have nearly got us killed twenty times to-day.
Go home, if you wish to make love, but, here, keep to your political
intrigues, my master."

"Let him scold, ma mie, and never mind him; I think he would be
ill if he did not."

"But, at least, ventre St. Gris, as you say, get into the litter,
and say your sweet things to madame; you will run less risk of
being recognized there than in the open street."

"You are right, Agrippa. Give me a place, ma mie, if you permit
me to sit by your side."

"Permit, sire; I desire it ardently," replied the lady.

"Sire!" murmured Chicot, who, carried away by an impulse, tried
to raise his head, and knocked it against the stone wall. Meanwhile
the happy lover profited by the permission given, and seated
himself in the litter.

"Oh! how happy I am," he cried, without attending in the least
to the impatience of his friend--"ventre St. Gris, this is a
good day. Here are my good Parisians, who execrate me with all
their souls, and would kill me if they could, working to smooth
my way to the throne, and I have in my arms the woman I love.
Where are we, D'Aubigne? when I am king, I will erect here a
statue to the genius of the Bearnais."

"The Bearn----" began Chicot, but he stopped, for he had given his
head a second bump.

"We are in the Rue de la Ferronnerie, sire," said D'Aubigne, "and
it does not smell nice."

"Get in then, Agrippa, and we will go on."

"Ma foi, no, I will follow behind; I should annoy you, and, what
is worse, you would annoy me."

"Shut the door then, bear of Bearn, and do as you like." Then
to the coachman he said, "Lavarrenne, you know where."

The litter went slowly away, followed by D'Aubigne.

"Let me see," said Chicot, "must I tell Henri what I have seen?
Why should I? two men and a woman, who hide themselves; it would be
cowardly. I will not tell; that I know it myself is the important
point, for is it not I who reign? His love was very pretty, but
he loves too often, this dear Henri of Navarre. A year ago it
was Madame de Sauve, and I suppose this was La Fosseuse. However,
I love the Bearnais, for I believe some day he will do an ill
turn to those dear Guises. Well! I have seen everyone to-day
but the Duc d'Anjou; he alone is wanting to my list of princes.
Where can my Francois III. be? Ventre de biche, I must look for
the worthy monarch."

Chicot was not the only person who was seeking for the Duc d'Anjou,
and unquiet at his absence. The Guises had also sought for him on
all sides, but they were not more lucky than Chicot. M. d'Anjou
was not the man to risk himself imprudently, and we shall see
afterwards what precautions had kept him from his friends. Once
Chicot thought he had found him in the Rue Bethisy; a numerous
group was standing at the door of a wine-merchant; and in this
group Chicot recognized M. de Monsoreau and M. de Guise, and
fancied that the Duc d'Anjou could not be far off. But he was
wrong. MM. de Monsoreau and Guise were occupied in exciting still
more an orator in his stammering eloquence. This orator was
Gorenflot, recounting his journey to Lyons, and his duel in an
inn with a dreadful Huguenot. M. de Guise was listening intently,
for he began to fancy it had something to do with the silence
of Nicolas David. Chicot was terrified; he felt sure that in
another moment Gorenflot would pronounce his name, which would
throw a fatal light on the mystery. Chicot in an instant cut the
bridles of some of the horses that were fastened up, and giving
them each a violent blow, sent them galloping among the crowd,
which opened, and began to disperse in different directions. Chicot
passed quickly through the groups, and approaching Gorenflot,
took Panurge by the bridle and turned him round. The Duc de Guise
was already separated from them by the rush of the people, and
Chicot led off Gorenflot to a kind of cul-de-sac by the church
of St. Germain l'Auxerrois.

"Ah! drunkard!" said he to him, "ah! traitor! you will then always
prefer a bottle of wine to your friend.'

"Ah! M. Chicot," stammered the monk.

"What! I feed you, wretch, I give you drink, I fill your pockets
and your stomach, and you betray me."

"Ah! M. Chicot!"

"You tell my secrets, wretch."

"Dear friend."

"Hold your tongue; you are but a sycophant, and deserve punishment."

And the monk, vigorous and strong, powerful as a bull, but overcome
by wine and repentance, remained without defending himself in
the hands of Chicot, who shook him like a balloon full of air.

"A punishment to me, to your friend, dear M. Chicot!"

"Yes, to you," said Chicot, striking him over the shoulders with
his stick.

"Ah! if I were but fasting."

"You would beat me, I suppose; I, your friend."

"My friend! and you treat me thus!"

"He who loves well chastises well," said Chicot, redoubling his
proofs of friendship. "Now," said he, "go and sleep at the Corne
d'Abondance."

"I can no longer see my way," cried the monk, from whose eyes
tears were falling.

"Ah!" said Chicot, "if you wept for the wine you have drunk! However,
I will guide you."

And taking the ass by the bridle, he led him to the hotel, where
two men assisted Gorenflot to dismount, and led him up to the
room which our readers already know.

"It is done," said the host, returning.

"He is in bed?"

"Yes, and snoring."

"Very well. But as he will awake some day or other, remember
that I do not wish that he should know how he came here; indeed,
it will be better that he should not know that he has been out
since the famous night when he made such a noise in the convent,
and that he should believe that all that has passed since is a
dream."

"Very well, M. Chicot; but what has happened to the poor monk?"

"A great misfortune. It appears that at Lyons he quarreled with
an agent of M. de Mayenne's and killed him."

"Oh! mon Dieu!"

"So that M. de Mayenne has sworn that he will have him broken
on the wheel."

"Make yourself easy, monsieur; he shall not go out from here on
any pretext."

"Good. And now," said Chicot, as he went away, "I must find the
Duc d'Anjou."




CHAPTER XLII.

THE PRINCE AND THE FRIEND.

We may remember that the Duc de Guise had invited the Duc d'Anjou
to meet him in the streets of Paris that evening. However, he
determined not to go out of his palace unless he was well
accompanied; therefore the duke went to seek his sword, which
was Bussy d'Amboise. For the duke to make up his mind to this
step he must have been very much afraid; for since his deception
with regard to M. de Monsoreau he had not seen Bussy, and stood
in great dread of him. Bussy, like all fine natures, felt sorrow
more vividly than pleasure; for it is rare that a man intrepid
in danger, cold and calm in the face of fire and sword, does not
give way to grief more easily than a coward. Those from whom a
woman can draw tears most easily are those most to be feared by
other men. Bussy had seen Diana received at court as Comtesse
de Monsoreau, and as such admitted by the queen into the circle
of her maids of honor; he had seen a thousand curious eyes fixed
on her unrivaled beauty. During the whole evening he had fastened
his ardent gaze on her, who never raised her eyes to him, and
he, unjust, like every man in love, never thought how she must
have been suffering from not daring to meet his sympathizing
glance.

"Oh," said he to himself, seeing that he waited uselessly for
a look, "women have skill and audacity only when they want to
deceive a guardian, a husband, or a mother; they are awkward
and cowardly when they have simply a debt of gratitude to pay,
they fear so much to seem to love--they attach so exaggerated
a value to their least favor, that they do not mind breaking
their lover's heart, if such be their humor. Diana might have
said to me frankly, 'I thank you for what you have done for me,
but I do not love you.' The blow would have killed or cured me.
But no; she prefers letting me love her hopelessly; but she has
gained nothing by it, for I no longer love her, I despise her."

And he went away with rage in his heart.

"I am mad," thought he, "to torment myself about a person who
disdains me. But why does she disdain me, or for whom? Not,
surely, for that long, livid-looking skeleton, who, always by
her side, covers her incessantly with his jealous glances. If
I wished it, in a quarter of an hour I could hold him mute and
cold under my knee with ten inches of steel in his heart, and
if I cannot be loved, I could at least be terrible and hated.
Oh, her hatred! Rather than her indifference. Yes, but to act
thus would be to do what a Quelus or a Maugiron would do if they
knew how to love. Better to resemble that hero of Plutarch whom
I so much admired, the young Antiochus, dying of love and never
avowing it, nor uttering a complaint. Am I not called the brave
Bussy?"

He went home, and threw himself on a chair. How long he remained
there he did not know when a man approached him.

"M. le Comte," said he, "you are in a fever."

"Ah, is it you, Remy?"

"Yes, count. Go to bed,"

Bussy obeyed, and all the next day Remy watched by him, with
refreshing drinks for his body and kind words for his mind. But
on the day after Bussy missed him. "Poor lad!" thought he, "he
was tired and wanted air; and then doubtless Gertrude expected
him; she is but a femme de chambre, but she loves, and a femme
de chambre who loves is better than a queen who does not."

The day passed, and Remy did not return. Bussy was angry and
impatient. "Oh!" cried he, "I, who still believed in gratitude
and friendship, will henceforth believe in nothing." Towards
evening he heard voices in his ante-chamber, and a servant entered,
saying, "It is Monseigneur the Duc d'Anjou."

"Let him enter," said Bussy, frowning.

The duke, on entering the room, which was without lights, said,
"It is too dark here, Bussy."

Bussy did not answer; disgust closed his mouth. "Are you really
ill," said the duke, "that you do not answer?"

"I am very ill."

"Then that is why I have not seen you for two days?"

"Yes, monseigneur."

The prince, piqued at these short answers, began to examine the
room.

"You seem to me well lodged, Bussy," said he.

Bussy did not reply.

"Bussy must be very ill," said the duke to an attendant who stood
by, "why was not Miron called? The king's doctor is not too good
for Bussy." When the servant was gone, "Are you in grief, Bussy?"
said the duke.

"I do not know."

The duke approached, becoming more and more gracious as he was
rebuffed. "Come, speak frankly, Bussy," said he.

"What am I to say, monseigneur?"

"You are angry with me?"

"I! for what? besides, it is no use to be angry with princes."
The duke was silent.

"But," said Bussy, "we are losing time in preambles; to the point,
monseigneur. You have need of me, I suppose?"

"Ah, M. de Bussy!"

"Yes, doubtless; do you think I believe that you come here through
friendship; you, who love no one?"

"Oh, Bussy, to say such things to me!"

"Well, be quick, monseigneur, what do you want? When one serves
a prince, and he dissimulates to the extent of calling you his
friend, one must pay for the dissimulation by being ready to
sacrifice everything, even life, if necessary."

The duke colored, but it was too dark to see it. "I wanted nothing
of you, Bussy, and you deceive yourself in thinking my visit
interested. I desire only, seeing the fine evening, and that
all Paris is out to sign the League, that you should accompany
me a little about the streets."

Bussy looked at him. "Have you not Aurilly to go with you?"

"A lute-player!"

"Ah, monseigneur, you do not mention all his qualities; I believed
that he fulfilled other functions for you. Besides, you have a
dozen other gentlemen; I hear them in the ante-chamber."

At this moment the door opened. "Who is there?" said the duke,
haughtily. "Who enters unannounced where I am?"

"I, Remy," replied the young man, without any embarrassment.

"Who is Remy?"

"The doctor, monseigneur," said the young man.

"And my friend," said Bussy. "You heard what monseigneur asks?"
continued he, turning to Remy.

"Yes, that you should accompany him; but----"

"But what?" said the duke.

"But you cannot do it!"

"And why so?" cried the duke.

"Because it is too cold out of doors."

"Too cold!" cried the duke, surprised that any one should oppose
him.

"Yes, too cold. Therefore I, who answer for M. Bussy's life to
himself and to his friends, must forbid him to go out." And he
pressed Bussy's hand in a significant manner.

"Very well," said the duke, "if the risk be so great, he must
stay." And he turned angrily to the door; but returning to the
bed, he said, "Then you have decided not to come?"

"Monseigneur, you hear that the doctor forbids me."

"You ought to see Miron, he is a great doctor."

"I prefer my friend."

"Then adieu."

"Adieu, monseigneur."

No sooner was the duke gone than Remy said, "Now, monsieur, get
up at once, if you please."

"What for?"

"To come out with me. This room is too warm."

"You said just now to the duke that it was too cold outside."

"The temperature has changed since."

"So that----" said Bussy, with curiosity.

"So that now I am convinced that the air will do you good."

"I do not understand."

"Do you understand the medicines I give you? Yet you take them.
Come, get up; a walk with M. d'Anjou is dangerous, with me it is
healthy. Have you lost confidence in me? If so, send me away."

"Well, as you wish it." Ana he rose, pale and trembling.

"An interesting paleness," said Remy.

"But where are we going?"

"To a place where I have analyzed the air to-day."

"And this air?"

"Is sovereign for your complaint, monseigneur."

Bussy dressed, and they went out.




CHAPTER XLIII.

ETYMOLOGY OF THE RUE DE LA JUSSIENNE.

Remy took his patient by the arm, and led him by the Rue Coquilliere
down to the rampart.

"It is strange," said Bussy, "you take me near the marsh of the
Grange-Batelier, and call it healthy."

"Oh, monsieur, a little patience; we are going to turn round
the Rue Pagavin, and get into the Rue Montmartre--you will see
what a fine street that is."

"As if I do not know it."

"Well, so much the better; I need not lose time in showing you
its beauties, and I will lead you at once into a pretty little
street."

Indeed, after going a few steps down the Rue Montmartre, they
turned to the right.

"This," said Remy, "is the Rue de la Gypecienne, or Egyptienne,
which you like; often called by the people the Rue de la Gyssienne,
or Jussienne."

"Very likely; but where are we going?"

"Do you see that little church?" said Remy. "How nicely it is
situated; I dare say you never remarked it before."

"No, I did not know it."

"Well, now that you have seen the exterior, enter and look at
the windows--they are very curious."

There was such a pleased smile on the young man's face, that
Bussy felt sure there must have been some other reason for making
him enter than to look at the windows which it was too dark to
see. The chapel was lighted, however, for service, and Remy began
examining a fresco of the Virgin Mary, which was a continual
source of complaint to the women who frequented the church, as
they said that it attracted the attention of the young shopkeepers
away from them.

"You had some other object in bringing me here than that I should
admire the St. Marie, had you not?"

"Ma foi! no."

"Then let us go."

"Wait a moment; the service is finishing."

"Now let us go," said Bussy; "they are moving;" and he walked
to the door.

"At least take some holy water."

Bussy obeyed, and Remy making a sign to a woman who stood near,
she advanced, and Bussy grew suddenly pale, for he recognized
Gertrude. She saluted him and passed on, but behind her came
a figure which, although closely veiled, made his heart beat
fast. Remy looked at him, and Bussy knew now why he had brought
him to this church. Bussy followed the lady, and Remy followed
him. Gertrude had walked on before, until she came to an alley
closed by a door. She opened it, and let her mistress pass. Bussy
followed, and the two others disappeared.

It was half-past seven in the evening, and near the beginning
of May; the air began to have the feeling of spring, and the
leaves were beginning to unfold themselves. Bussy looked round
him, and found himself in a little garden fifty feet square,
surrounded by high walls covered with vines and moss. The first
lilacs which had begun to open in the morning sun sent out their
sweet emanations, and the young man felt tempted to think that
so much perfume and warmth and life came to him only from the
presence of the woman he loved so tenderly.

On a little wooden bench sat Diana, twisting in her fingers a
sprig of wall-flower, which she had picked, without knowing what
she did. As Bussy approached her, she raised her head, and said
timidly, "M. le Comte, all deception would be unworthy of us;
if you found me at the church of St. Marie l'Egyptienne, it was
not chance that brought you there."

"No, madame; Remy took me out without my knowing where I was going,
and I swear to you that I was ignorant----"

"You do not understand me, monsieur, I know well that M. Remy
brought you there, by force, perhaps."

"No, madame, not by force; I did not know that he was going to
take me to see any one."

"That is a harsh speech," said Diana, sadly, and with tears in
her eyes. "Do you mean that had you known, you would not have
come?"

"Oh, madame!"

"It would have been but just, monsieur; you did me a great service,
and I have not thanked you. Pardon me, and receive all my thanks."

"Madame----" Bussy stopped; he felt so overcome, that he had neither
words nor ideas.

"But I wished to prove to you," continued Diana, "that I am not
ungrateful, nor forgetful. It was I who begged M. Remy to procure
for me the honor of this interview; it was I who sought for it,
forgive me if I have displeased you."

"Oh, madame! you cannot think that."

"I know," continued Diana, who was the strongest, because she
had prepared herself for this interview, "how much trouble you
had in fulfilling my commission; I know all your delicacy; I
know it and appreciate it, believe me. Judge, then, what I must
have suffered from the idea that you would misunderstand the
sentiments of my heart."

"Madame, I have been ill for three days."

"Oh! I know," cried Diana, with a rising color, "and I suffered
more than you, for M. Remy, he deceived me, no doubt; for he
made me believe----"

"That your forgetfulness caused it. Oh! it is true."

"Then I have been right to do as I have done; to see you, to thank
you for your kindness, and to swear to you an eternal gratitude.
Do you believe that I speak from the bottom of my heart?"

Bussy shook his head sadly, and did not reply.

"Do you doubt my words?" said Diana.

"Madame, those who feel a kindness for you, show it when they
can. You knew I was at the palace the night of your presentation,
you knew I was close to you, you must have felt my looks fixed
on you, and you never raised your eyes to me, you never let me
know by a word, a sign, or a gesture, that you were aware of
my presence; but perhaps you did not recognize me, madame, you
have only seen me twice." Diana replied with so sad a glance
of reproach, that Bussy was moved by it.

"Pardon, madame," said he; "you are not an ordinary woman, and
yet you act like them. This marriage----"

"I was forced to conclude it."

"Yes, but it was easy to break."

"Impossible, on the contrary."

"Did you not know that near you watched a devoted friend?"

"Even that made me fear."

"And you did not think of what my life would be, when you belonged
to another. But perhaps you kept the name of Monsoreau from
choice?"

"Do you think so?" murmured Diana; "so much the better." And
her eyes filled with tears. Bussy walked up and down in great
agitation.

"I am to become once more a stranger to you," said he.

"Alas!"

"Your silence says enough."

"I can only speak by my silence."

"At the Louvre you would not see me, and now you will not speak
to me."

"At the Louvre I was watched by M. de Monsoreau, and he is jealous."

"Jealous! What does he want then? mon Dieu! whose happiness can
he envy, when all the world is envying his?"

"I tell you he is jealous; for the last two or three days he has
seen some one wandering round our new abode."

"Then you have quitted the Rue St. Antoine?"

"How!" cried Diana thoughtlessly, "then it was not you?"

"Madame, since your marriage was publicly announced, since that
evening at the Louvre, where you did not deign to look at me, I
have been in bed, devoured by fever, so you see that your husband
could not be jealous of me, at least."

"Well! M. le Comte, if it be true that you had any desire to see
me, you must thank this unknown man; for knowing M. de Monsoreau
as I know him, this man made me tremble for you, and I wished
to see you and say to you, 'Do not expose yourself so, M. le
Comte; do not make me more unhappy than I am.'"

"Reassure yourself, madame; it was not I."

"Now, let me finish what I have to say. In the fear of this man--whom
I do not know, but whom M. de Monsoreau does perhaps--he exacts
that I should leave Paris, so that," said Diana, holding out her
hand to Bussy, "you may look upon this as our last meeting, M. le
Comte. To-morrow we start for Meridor."

"You are going, madame?"

"There is no other way to reassure M. de Monsoreau; no other way
for me to be at peace. Besides, I myself detest Paris, the world,
the court, and the Louvre. I wish to be alone with my souvenirs
of my happy past; perhaps a little of my former happiness will
return to me there. My father will accompany me, and I shall
find there M. and Madame de St. Luc, who expect me. Adieu, M.
de Bussy."

Bussy hid his face in his hands. "All is over for me," he murmured.

"What do you say?" said Diana.

"I say, madame, that this man exiles you, that he takes from
me the only hope left to me, that of breathing the same air as
yourself, of seeing you sometimes, of touching your dress as
you pass. Oh! this man is my mortal enemy, and if I perish for
it, I will destroy him with my own hands."

"Oh! M. le Comte!"

"The wretch; it is not enough for him that you are his wife:
you, the most beautiful and most charming of creatures, but he
is still jealous. Jealous! The devouring monster would absorb
the whole world!"

"Oh! calm yourself, comte; mon Dieu; he is excusable, perhaps."

"He is excusable! you defend him, madame?"

"Oh! if you knew!" cried Diana, covering her face with her hands.

"If I knew! Oh! madame, I know one thing; he who is your husband
is wrong to think of the rest of the world."

"But!" cried Diana, in a broken voice, "if you were wrong, M.
le Comte, and if he were not."

And the young woman, touching with her cold hand the burning ones
of Bussy, rose and fled among the somber alleys of the garden,
seized Gertrude's arm and dragged her away, before Bussy, astonished
and overwhelmed with delight, had time to stretch out his arms
to retain her. He uttered a cry and tottered; Remy arrived in
time to catch him in his arms and make him sit down on the bench
that Diana had just quitted.




CHAPTER XLIV.

HOW D'EPERNON HAD HIS DOUBLET TORN, AND HOW CHOMBERG WAS STAINED
BLUE.

While M. la Huriere piled signature upon signature, while Chicot
consigned Gorenflot to the Corne d'Abondance, while Bussy returned
to life in the happy little garden full of perfume and love,
the king, annoyed at all he had seen in the city, and furious
against his brother, whom he had seen pass in the Rue St. Honore,
accompanied by MM. de Guise and Monsoreau, and followed by a
whole train of gentlemen, re-entered the Louvre, accompanied
by Maugiron and Quelus. He had gone out with all four of his
friends, but, at some steps from the Louvre, Schomberg and D'Epernon
had profited by the first crush to disappear, counting on some
adventures in such a turbulent night. Before they had gone one
hundred yards D'Epernon had passed his sword-sheath between the
legs of a citizen who was running, and who tumbled down in
consequence, and Schomberg had pulled the cap off the head of
a young and pretty woman. But both had badly chosen their day
for attacking these good Parisians, generally so patient; for a
spirit of revolt was prevalent in the streets, and the bourgeois
rose, crying out for aid, and the husband of the young woman
launched his apprentices on Schomberg. He was brave; therefore
he stopped, put his hand on his sword, and spoke in a high tone.
D'Epernon was prudent; he fled.

Henri had entered his room at the Louvre, and, seated in his
great armchair, was trembling with impatience, and seeking a
good pretext for getting into a passion. Maugiron was playing
with Narcissus, the large greyhound, and Quelus was sitting near.

"They go on!" cried Henri, "their plot advances; sometimes tigers,
sometimes serpents; when they do not spring they glide."

"Oh, sire!" said Quelus, "are there not always plots in a kingdom?
What the devil could all the sons, brothers, and cousins of kings
do if they did not plot?" And Quelus irreverently turned his
back to the king.

"Hear, Maugiron," said the king, "with what nonsense he tries
to put me off."

"Well, sire, look at Narcissus; he is a good dog, but when you
pull his ears, he growls, and when you tread on his toes he bites."

"Here is the other comparing me to my dog!"

"Not so, sire; I place Narcissus far above you, for he knows
how to defend himself, and you do not." And he also turned his
back.

"That is right," cried the king, "my good friends, for whom they
accuse me of despoiling the kingdom, abandon me, insult me! Ah,
Chicot! if you were here."

At this moment, however, the door opened, and D'Epernon appeared,
without hat or cloak, and with his doublet all torn.

"Bon Dieu!" cried Henri, "what is the matter?"

"Sire," said D'Epernon, "look at me; see how they treat the friends
of your majesty."

"Who has treated you thus?"

"Mordieu, your people; or rather the people of; M. le Duc d'Anjou,
who cried, 'Vive la Messe!' 'Vive Guise!' 'Vive Francois!--vive
everyone, in fact, except the king."

"And what did you do to be treated thus?"

"I? nothing. What can a man do to a people? They recognized me
for your majesty's friend, and that was enough."

"But Schomberg?"

"Well?"

"Did he not come to your aid? did he not defend you?"

"Corboeuf! he had enough to do on his own account."

"How so?"

"I left him in the hands of a dyer whose wife's cap he had pulled
off, and who, with his five or six apprentices, seemed likely
to make him pass an unpleasant quarter of an hour."

"Par la mordieu! and where did you leave my poor Schomberg? I
will go myself to his aid. They may say," continued he, looking
at Maugiron and Quelus, "that my friends abandon me, but they
shall never say that I abandon them."

"Thanks, sire," said a voice behind Henri; "thanks, but here
I am; I extricated myself without assistance; but, mein Gott!
it was not without trouble."

"It is Schomberg's voice," cried all, "but where the devil is
he?"

"Here I am," cried the voice; and indeed, in the corner of the
room they saw something that looked not like a man but a shadow.

"Schomberg," cried the king, "where do you come from, and why
are you that color?"

Indeed, Schomberg from head to foot was of a most beautiful blue.

"Der Teufel!" cried he, "the wretches! It is not wonderful that
the people ran after me."

"But what is the matter?"

"The matter is, that they dipped me in a vat, the knaves; I believed
that it was only water, but it was indigo."

"Oh, mordieu!" cried Quelus, bursting out laughing, "indigo is
very dear; you must have carried away at least twenty crowns'
worth of indigo."

"I wish you had been in my place."

"And you did not kill any one?"

"I left my poniard somewhere, that is all I know, up to the hilt
in a sheath of flesh; but in a second I was taken, carried off,
dipped in the vat, and almost drowned."

"And how did you get out of their hands?"

"By committing a cowardice, sire."

"What was that?"

"Crying, 'Vive la Ligue!'"

"That was like me; only they made me add, 'Vive le Duc d'Anjou!'"
said D'Epernon.

"And I also," cried Schomberg; "but that is not all."

"What, my poor Schomberg, did they make you cry something else?"

"No, that was enough, God knows; but just as I cried, 'Vive le
Duc d'Anjou,' guess who passed."

"How can I guess?"

"Bussy; his cursed Bussy, who heard me."

"He could not understand."

"Parbleu! it was not difficult to understand. I had a poniard
at my throat, and I was in a vat."

"And he did not come to your rescue?"

"It seemed as though he was in a dreadful hurry; he scarcely seemed
to touch the ground."

"Perhaps he did not recognize you, as you were blue."

"Ah! very likely."

"He would be excusable," said the king; "for, indeed, my poor
Schomberg, I should hardly have known you myself."

"Never mind; we shall meet some other time, when I am not in a
vat."

"Oh! as for me," said D'Epernon, "it is his master I should like
to punish."

"The Duc d'Anjou, whose praises they are singing all over Paris,"
said Quelus.

"The fact is, that he is master of Paris to-night," said D'Epernon.

"Ah, my brother! my brother!" cried the king. "Ah! yes, sire;
you cry, 'my brother,' but you do nothing against him; and yet
it is clear to me that he is at the head of some plot." said
Schomberg.

"Eh, mordieu! that is what I was saying just before you came in,
to these gentlemen, and they replied by shrugging their shoulders
and turning their backs."

"Not because you said there was a plot, sire, but because you
do nothing to suppress it."

"And, now," said Quelus, "we say, 'Save us,' sire; or rather,
save yourself; to-morrow M. de Guise will come to the Louvre, and
ask you to name a chief for the League; if you name M. d'Anjou, as
you promised, he, at the head of one hundred thousand Parisians,
excited by this night, can do what he likes."

"Then," said Henri, "if I take a decisive step, you will support
me?"

"Yes, sire."

"If, sire, you will only give me time to remodel my dress," said
D'Epernon.

"Go to my room, D'Epernon; my valet de chambre will give you what
you want."

"And I, sire, must have a bath," said Schomberg.

"Go to my bath."

"Then I may hope, sire, that my insult will not remain unavenged."

Henri remained silent a moment, and then said, "Quelus, ask if
M. d'Anjou has returned to the Louvre."

Quelus went, but came back, and said that the duke had not yet
returned.

"Well, you, Quelus and Maugiron, go down and watch for his entrance."

"And then?"

"Have all the doors shut."

"Bravo! sire."

"I will be back in ten minutes, sire," said D'Epernon.

"And my stay will depend on the quality of the dye," said Schomberg.

"Come as soon as possible," said the king.

The young men went out, and the king, left alone, kneeled down
on his prie-Dieu.




CHAPTER XLV.

CHICOT MORE THAN EVER KING OF FRANCE.

The gates of the Louvre were generally closed at twelve, but
the king gave orders that they should be left open on this night
till one. At a quarter to one Quelus came up.

"Sire," said he, "the duke has come in."

"What is Maugiron doing?"

"Watching that he does not go out again."

"There is no danger."

"Then----"

"Let him go to bed quietly. Whom has he with him?"

"M. de Monsoreau and his ordinary gentlemen."

"And M. de Bussy?"

"No; he is not there."

"So much the better."

"What are your orders, sire?"

"Tell Schomberg and D'Epernon to be quick, and let M. de Monsoreau
know that I wish to speak to him."

Five minutes after, Schomberg and D'Epernon entered; the former
with only a slight blue tint left, which it would take several
baths to eradicate, and the latter newly clothed. After them,
M. de Monsoreau appeared. "The captain of the guards has just
announced to me that your majesty did me the honor to send for
me," said he.

"Yes, monsieur; when I was out this evening, I saw the stars
so brilliant, and the moon so clear, that I thought it would
be splendid weather for the chase to-morrow; so, M. le Comte,
set off at once for Vincennes, and get a stag turned out ready
for me."

"But, sire, I thought that to-morrow your majesty had given a
rendezvous to Monsieur le Duc d'Anjou and M. de Guise, in order
to name a chief for the League."

"Well, monsieur?" said the king haughtily.

"Sire, there might not be time."

"There is always time, monsieur, for those who know how to employ
it; that is why I tell you to set off at once, so that you may
have all ready for to-morrow morning at ten. Quelus, Schomberg,
have the door of the Louvre opened for M. de Monsoreau, and have
it closed behind him."

The chief huntsman retired in astonishment. "It is a whim of the
king's," said he to the young men.

"Yes."

They watched him out, and then returned to the king.

"Now," said Henri, "silence, and all four of you follow me."

"Where are we going, sire?" said D'Epernon.

"Those who follow will see."

The king took a lantern in his hand, and led the young men along
the secret corridor, which led to his brother's rooms. A
valet-de-chambre watched here; but before he had time to warn
his master, Henri ordered him to be silent, and the young men
pushed him into a room and locked the door.

Henri opened his brother's door. Francois had gone to bed full of
dreams of ambition, which the events of the evening had nourished;
he had heard his name exalted, and the king's abused. Conducted
by the Duc de Guise, he had seen the Parisians open everywhere
for him and his gentlemen, while those of the king were insulted
and hooted. Never since the commencement of his career had he
been so popular, and consequently so hopeful. He had placed on
the table a letter from M. de Guise, which had been brought to
him by M. de Monsoreau. His surprise and terror were great when
he saw the secret door open, and still more when he recognized
the king. Henri signed to his companions to remain on the
threshold, and advanced to the bed, frowning, but silent.

"Sire," stammered the duke, "the honor that your majesty does
me is so unlooked for----"

"That it frightens you, does it not? But stay where you are, my
brother; do not rise."

"But, sire, only--permit me----" and he drew towards him the letter
of M. de Guise.

"You are reading?" asked the king.

"Yes, sire."

"Something interesting to keep you awake at this time of night?"

"Oh, sire, nothing very important; the evening courier----"

"Oh, yes, I understand--Courier of Venus; but no, I see I am
wrong--they do not seal billet-doux with seals of that size."

The duke hid the letter altogether.

"How discreet this dear Francois is!" said the king, with a smile
which frightened his brother. However, making an effort to recover
himself, he said:

"Did your majesty wish to say anything particular to me?"

"What I have to say to you, monsieur, I wish to say before witnesses.
Here, gentlemen," continued he, turning to the four young men,
"listen to us; I order you."

"Sire," said the duke, with a glance full of rage and hatred,
"before insulting a man of my rank, you should have refused me
the hospitality of the Louvre; in the Hotel d'Anjou, at least,
I should have been free to reply to you."

"Really, you forget, then, that wherever you are, you are my
subject; that I am the king, and that every house is mine."

"Sire, I am at the Louvre, at my mother's."

"And your mother is in my house. But to the point--give me that
paper."

"Which?"

"That which you were reading, which was on your table, and which
you hid when I came in."

"Sire, reflect."

"On what?"

"On this, that you are making a request unworthy of a gentleman,
and fit only for a police-officer."

The king grew livid. "That letter, monsieur!"

"A woman's letter, sire."

"There are some women's letters very good to see, and dangerous
not to see--such as those our mother writes."

"Brother!"

"This letter, monsieur!" cried the king, stamping his foot, "or
I will have it torn from you by my Swiss!"

The duke jumped out of bed, with the letter crumpled in his hand,
evidently with the intention of approaching the fire. But Henri,
divining his intention, placed himself between him and the fire.

"You would not treat your brother thus?" cried the duke.

"Not my brother, but my mortal enemy. Not my brother, but the
Duc D'Anjou, who went all through Paris with M. de Guise, who
tries to hide from me a letter from one of his accomplices, the
Lorraine princes."

"This time," said the duke, "your police are wrong."

"I tell you I saw on the seal the three merlets of Lorraine. Give
it to me, mordieu! or----"

Henri advanced towards his brother and laid his hand on his shoulder.
Francois had no sooner felt the touch of his hand than, falling
on his knees, he cried out, "Help! help! my brother is going
to kill me."

These words, uttered in an accent of profound terror, startled
the king and mitigated his rage. The idea passed quickly through
his mind that in their family, as by a curse, brother had always
assassinated brother.

"No, my brother," said he, "you are wrong; I do not wish to hurt
you, but you cannot contend with me. I am the master, and if
you did not know it before, you know it now."

"Yes, my brother, I acknowledge it."

"Very well, then give me that letter; the king orders it."

The duke let it fall, and the king picked it up, but without reading
it put it in his pocket-book.

"Is that all?" said the duke, with his sinister glance.

"No, monsieur, you must keep your room until my suspicions with
respect to you are completely dissipated. The room is commodious,
and not much like a prison; stay here. You will have good company--at
least, outside the door, for this night these four gentlemen
will guard you; to-morrow they will be relieved by a guard of
Swiss."

"But, my friends--cannot I see them?"

"Who do you call your friends?"

"M. de Monsoreau, M. de Ribeirac, M. Antragues, and M. de Bussy."

"Oh, yes, he, of course."

"Has he had the misfortune to displease your majesty?"

"Yes."

"When, sire?"

"Always, but particularly to-night."

"To-night! what did he do?"

"Insulted me in the streets of Paris."

"You?"

"My followers, which is the same thing."

"Bussy! you have been deceived, sire."

"I know what I say."

"Sire, M. de Bussy has not been out of his hotel for two days.
He is at home, ill in bed, burning with fever."

The king turned to Schomberg, who said, "If he had fever, at all
events he had it in the Rue Coquilliere."

"Who told you he was there?" said the duke.

"I saw him."

"You saw Bussy out of doors?"

"Yes, looking well and happy, and accompanied by his ordinary
follower, that Remy."

"Then I do not understand it; I saw him in bed myself; he must
have deceived me."

"It is well; he will be punished with the rest," said the king.

"If M. de Bussy went out alone after refusing to go out with
me----"

"You hear, gentlemen, what my brother says. But we will talk
of him another time; now I recommend my brother to your care;
you will have the honor of serving as guard to a prince of the
blood."

"Oh! sire," said Quelus, "be satisfied; we know what we owe to
M. le Duc."

"It is well; adieu, gentlemen."

"Sire," cried the duke, "am I really a prisoner, are my friends
not to visit me, and am I not to go out?" And the idea of the
next day presented itself to his mind, when his presence would
be so necessary to M. de Guise. "Sire," cried he again, "let me
at least remain near your majesty; it is my place, and I can be
as well guarded there as elsewhere. Sire, grant me this favor."

The king was about to yield to this request and say, "Yes," when
his attention was attracted to the door, where a long body, with
its arms, its head, and everything that it could move, was making
signs to him to say "No." It was Chicot.

"No," said Henri to his brother; "you are very well here, and
here you must stay."

"Sire----"

"It is my pleasure, and that is enough," said the king, haughtily.

"I said I was the real King of France," murmured Chicot.




CHAPTER XLVI.

HOW CHICOT PAID A VISIT TO BUSSY, AND WHAT FOLLOWED.

The next morning, about nine, Bussy was eating his breakfast,
and talking with Remy over the events of the previous day.

"Remy," said he, "did you not think you had seen somewhere that
gentleman whom they were dipping in a vat in the Rue Coquilliere?"

"Yes, M. le Comte, but I cannot think of his name."

"I ought to have helped him," said Bussy, "it is a duty one gentleman
owes to another; but, really, Remy, I was too much occupied with
my own affairs."

"But he must have recognized us, for we were our natural color,
and it seemed to me that he rolled his eyes frightfully, and
shook his fist at us."

"Are you sure of that, Remy? We must find out who it was; I cannot
let such an insult pass."

"Oh!" cried Remy, "I know now who he was."

"How so?"

"I heard him swear."

"I should think so; any one would have sworn in such a situation."

"Yes, but he swore in German."

"Bah!"

"Yes, he said, 'Gott verdomme.'"

"Then it was Schomberg?"

"Himself, M. le Comte."

"Then, my dear Remy, get your salves ready."

"Why so, monsieur?"

"Because, before long, you will have to apply them either to his
skin or to mine."

"You would not be so foolish as to get killed, now you are so
well and so happy; St. Marie l'Egyptienne has cured you once,
but she will get tired of working miracles for you."

"On the contrary, Remy, you cannot tell how pleasant it feels to
risk your life when you are happy. I assure you I never fought
with a good heart when I had lost large sums at play, when things
had gone wrong, or when I had anything to reproach myself with;
but when my purse is full, my heart light, and my conscience
clear, I go boldly to the field, for I am sure of my hand; it
is then I am brilliant. I should fight well to-day, Remy, for,
thanks to you," said he, extending his hand to the young man,
"I am very happy."

"Stay a moment, however; you will, I hope, deprive yourself of
this pleasure. A beautiful lady of my acquaintance made me swear
to keep you safe and sound, under pretext that your life belongs
to her."

"Good Remy!"

"You call me good Remy, because I brought you to see Madame de
Monsoreau, but shall you call me so when you are separated from
her? and unluckily the day approaches, if it be not come."

"What do you mean?"

"Do you not know that she is going to Anjou, and that I myself
have the grief of being separated from Gertrude. Ah----"

Bussy could not help smiling at the pretended grief of the young
man.

"You love her, then?" he said.

"I should think so; you should see how she beats me."

"And you let her do it?"

"Oh! yes."

"But to return to Diana, Remy; when shall we set off?"

"Ah! I expected that. On the latest possible day I should say."

"Why so?"

"Firstly, because it seems to me that M. le Duc d'Anjou will want
you here."

"After?"

"Because M. de Monsoreau, by a special blessing, does not suspect
you in the least, and would suspect something immediately if he
saw you disappear from Paris at the same time as his wife."

"What do I care for that?"

"No; but I care. I charge myself with curing the sword strokes
received in duels, for, as you manage your sword well, you never
receive very serious ones; but not the blows given secretly by
jealous husbands; they are animals, who, in such cases, strike
hard."

"Well I my dear friend, if it is my destiny to be killed by M.
de Monsoreau."

"Well!"

"Well! he will kill me."

"And then, a week after, Madame de Monsoreau will be reconciled
to her husband, which will dreadfully enrage your poor soul, which
will see it from above or below, without being able to prevent
it."

"You are right, Remy; I will live."

"Quite right; but that is not all, you must be charmingly polite
to him; he is frightfully jealous of the Duc d'Anjou, who, while
you were ill in bed, promenaded before the house with his Aurilly.
Make advances, then, to this charming husband, and do not even
ask him what has become of his wife, since you know quite well."

"You are right, Remy, I believe. Now I am no longer jealous of
the bear, I will be civil to him."

At this moment some one knocked at the door.

"Who is there?" cried Bussy.

"Monsieur," replied a page, "there is a gentleman below who wishes
to speak to you."

"To speak to me so early; who is it?"

"A tall gentleman, dressed in green velvet."

"Can it be Schomberg?"

"He said a tall man."

"True, then Monsoreau, perhaps; well, let him enter." After a
minute the visitor entered.

"M. Chicot!" cried Bussy.

"Himself, M. le Comte."

Remy retired into another room, and then Chicot said, "Monsieur,
I come to propose to you a little bargain."

"Speak, monsieur," said Bussy, in great surprise.

"What will you promise me if I render you a great service?"

"That depends on the service, monsieur," replied Bussy, disdainfully.

Chicot feigned not to remark this air of disdain. "Monsieur,"
said he, sitting down and crossing his long legs, "I remark that
you do not ask me to sit down."

The color mounted to Bussy's face.

"Monsieur," continued Chicot, "have you heard of the League?"

"I have heard much of it," said Bussy.

"Well, monsieur, you ought to know that it is an association
of honest Christians, united for the purpose of religiously
massacring their neighbors, the Huguenots. Are you of the League,
monsieur? I am."

"But--monsieur----"

"Say only yes, or no."

"Allow me to express my astonishment----"

"I did myself the honor of asking you if you belonged to the League."

"M. Chicot, as I do not like questions whose import I do not
understand, I beg you to change the conversation before I am
forced to tell you that I do not like questioners. Come, M. Chicot,
we have but a few minutes left."

"Well! in a few minutes one can say a great deal; however, I
might have dispensed with asking you the question, as if you
do not belong to the League now, you soon will, as M. d'Anjou
does."

"M. d'Anjou! Who told you that?"

"Himself, speaking to me in person, as the gentlemen of the law
say, or rather write; for example, that dear M. Nicolas David,
that star of the Forum Parisiense. Now you understand that as
M. d'Anjou belongs to the League, you cannot help belonging to
it also; you, who are his right arm. The League knows better
than to accept a maimed chief."

"Well, M. Chicot, what then?"

"Why, if you do belong to it, or they think you are likely to
do so, what has happened to his royal highness will certainly
happen to you."

"And what has happened to him?"

"Monsieur," said Chicot, rising and imitating M. de Bussy's manner
of a little before, "I do not love questions, nor questioners,
therefore I have a great mind to let them do to you what they
have done to-night to the duke."

"M. Chicot," said Bussy, with a smile, "speak, I beg of you; where
is the duke?"

"He is in prison?"

"Where?"

"In his own room. Four of my good friends guard him. M. de Schomberg,
who was dyed blue yesterday, as you know, since you passed during
the operation; M. d'Epernon, who is yellow from the fright he
had; M. de Quelus, who is red with anger; and M. de Maugiron,
who is white with ennui; it is beautiful to see; not to speak
of the duke, who is going green with terror, so that we shall
have a perfect rainbow to delight our eyes."

"Then, monsieur, you think my liberty in danger?"

"Danger! monsieur; suppose that they are already on the way to
arrest you."

Bussy shuddered.

"Do you like the Bastile, M. de Bussy? it is a good place for
meditation, and M. Laurent Testu, the governor, keeps a good
cook."

"They would send me to the Bastile?"

"Ma foi! I ought to have in my pocket something like an order
to conduct you there. Would you like to see it?" and Chicot drew
from his pocket an order from the king in due form, to apprehend,
wherever he might be, M. Louis de Clermont, Seigneur de Bussy.
"Written very nicely by M. Quelus," continued Chicot.

"Then, monsieur," cried Bussy, "you are really rendering me a
service?"

"I think so; do you agree with me?"

"Monsieur, I beg you to tell me why you do it; for you love the
king, and he hates me."

"M. le Comte, I save you; think what you please of my action.
But do you forget that I asked for a recompense?"

"Ah, true."

"Well?"

"Most willingly, monsieur."

"Then some day you will do what I ask you?"

"On my honor, if possible."

"That is enough. Now mount your horse and disappear; I go to carry
this order to those who are to use it."

"Then you were not to arrest me yourself?"

"I! for what do you take me?"

"But I should abandon my master."

"Have no scruples; he abandons you."

"You are a gentleman, M. Chicot."

Bussy called Remy. To do him justice, he was listening at the
door.

"Remy, our horses!"

"They are saddled, monsieur."

"Ah!" said Chicot, "this young man knows what he is about."

Bussy thanked Chicot once more, and went down.

"Where are we going?" said Remy.

"Well----" said Bussy, hesitating.

"What do you say to Normandy?" said Chicot.

"It is too near."

"Flanders, then?"

"Too far."

"Anjou is a reasonable distance, monsieur," said Remy.

"Well, then, Anjou," said Bussy, coloring.

"Adieu, monsieur!" said Chicot.

"It is destiny," said Remy, when he was gone.

"Let us be quick, and perhaps we may overtake her," said Bussy.




CHAPTER XLVII.

THE CHESS OF M. CHICOT, AND THE CUP AND BALL OF M. QUELUS.

Chicot returned joyfully to the Louvre. It was a great satisfaction
to him to have saved a brave gentleman like Bussy.

M. de Guise, after having received in the morning the principal
Leaguers, who came to bring him the registers filled with signatures,
and after having made them all swear to recognize the chief that
the king should appoint, went out to visit M. d'Anjou, whom he
had lost sight of about ten the evening before. The duke found
the prince's valet rather unquiet at his master's absence, but
he imagined that he had slept at the Louvre.

The Due de Guise asked to speak to Aurilly, who was most likely
to know where his master was. Aurilly came, but stated he had
been separated from the prince the evening before by a pressure
of the crowd, and had come to the Hotel d'Anjou to wait for him,
not knowing that his highness had intended to sleep at the Louvre.
He added that he had just sent to the Louvre to inquire, and that
a message had been returned that the duke was still asleep.

"Asleep at eleven o'clock! not likely. You ought to go to the
Louvre, Aurilly."

"I did think of it, monseigneur, but I feared that this was only
a tale invented to satisfy my messenger, and that the prince was
seeking pleasure elsewhere, and might be annoyed at my seeking
him."

"Oh, no; the duke has too much sense to be pleasure-seeking on
a day like this. Go to the Louvre; you will be sure to find him
there."

"I will if you wish it; but what shall I say to him?"

"Say that the convocation at the Louvre is fixed for two o'clock,
and that it is necessary that we should have a conference first.
It is not at the time when the king is about to choose a chief
for the League that he should be sleeping."

"Very well, monseigneur, I will beg his highness to come here."

"And say that I am waiting impatiently for him.
Meanwhile I will go and seek M. de Bussy."

"But if I do not find his highness, what am I to do?"

"Then make no further search for him. In any event I shall be
at the Louvre at a quarter before two."

Aurilly passed through the courtiers who crowded the Louvre,
and made his way to the duke's apartments. At the door he found
Chicot playing chess. Aurilly tried to pass, but Chicot, with
his long legs blocked up the doorway. He was forced to touch
him on the shoulder.

"Ah, it is you, M. Aurilly."

"What are you doing, M. Chicot?"

"Playing chess, as you see."

"All alone?"

"Yes, I am studying; do you play?"

"Very little."

"Yes, I know you are a musician, and music is so difficult an
art, that those who give themselves to it must sacrifice all
their time."

"You seem very serious over your game."

"Yes, it is my king who disquiets me; you must know, M. Aurilly,
that at chess the king is a very insignificant person, who has
no will, who can only go one step forward or back, or one to
the right or left, while he is surrounded by active enemies, by
knights who jump three squares at a time, by a crowd of pawns
who surround him, so that if he be badly counseled he is a ruined
king in no time, ma foi."

"But, M. Chicot, how does it happen that you are studying this
at the door of his royal highness' room?"

"Because I am waiting for M. Quelus, who is in there."

"Where?"

"With his highness."

"With his highness! What is he doing there? I did not think they
were such friends."

"Hush!" then he whispered in Aurilly's ear "he is come to ask
pardon of the duke for a little quarrel they had yesterday."

"Really!"

"It was the king who insisted on it; you know on what excellent
terms the brothers are just now. The king would not suffer an
impertinence of Quelus's to pass, and ordered him to apologize."

"Really!"

"Ah! M. Aurilly, I think that we are entering the golden age; the
Louvre is about to become Arcadia, and the two brothers Arcades
ambo."

Aurilly smiled, and passed into the ante-chamber, where he was
courteously saluted by Quelus, between whose hands a superb cup
and ball of ebony inlaid with ivory was making rapid evolutions.

"Bravo! M. Quelus," said Aurilly.

"Ah! my dear M. Aurilly, when shall I play cup and ball as well
as you play the lute?"

"When you have studied your plaything as long as I have my
instrument. But where is monseigneur? I thought you were with
him."

"I have an audience with him, but Schomberg comes first."

"What! M. de Schomberg, also!"

"Oh! mon Dieu; yes. The king settled all that. He is in the
next room. Enter, M. Aurilly, and remind the prince that we are
waiting for him."

Aurilly opened the second door and saw Schomberg reclining on
a kind of couch, from which he amused himself by sending from a
tube little balls of earth through a gold ring, suspended from
the ceiling by a silk thread, while a favorite dog brought him
back the balls as they fell.

"Ah! guten morgen, M. Aurilly, you see I am amusing myself while
I wait for my audience."

"But where is monseigneur?"

"Oh! he is occupied in pardoning D'Epernon and Maugiron. But will
you not enter, you who are privileged?"

"Perhaps it would be indiscreet."

"Not at all; enter, M. Aurilly, enter." And he pushed him into
the next room, where the astonished musician perceived D'Epernon
before a mirror, occupied in stiffening his mustachios, while
Maugiron, seated near the window, was cutting out engravings, by
the side of which the bas-reliefs on the temple of Venus Aphrodite
would have looked holy.

The duke, without his sword, was in his armchair between these
two men, who only looked at him to watch his movements, and only
spoke to him to say something disagreeable: seeing Aurilly, he
got up to meet him.

"Take care monseigneur," said Maugiron, "you are stepping on my
figures."

"Mon Dieu!" cried the musician, "he insults my master!"

"Dear M. Aurilly," said D'Epernon, still arranging his mustachois,
"how are you?"

"Be so kind as to bring me here your little dagger," said Maugiron.

"Gentlemen, gentlemen, do you not remember where you are?"

"Yes, yes, my dear Orpheus, that is why I ask for your dagger;
you see M. le Duc has none."

"Aurilly!" cried the duke, in a tone full of grief and rage, "do
you not see that I am a prisoner?"

"A prisoner! to whom?"

"To my brother; you might know that by my jailers."

"Oh! if I had but guessed it."

"You would have brought your lute to amuse his highness," said
a mocking voice behind them, "but I thought of it, and sent for
it; here it is."

"How does your chess go on, Chicot?" said D'Epernon.

"I believe I shall save the king, but it is not without trouble.
Come, M. Aurilly, give me your poniard in return for the lute;
a fair exchange."

The astonished musician obeyed.

"There is one rat in the trap," said Quelus, who returned to
his post in the antechamber, only exchanging his cup and ball
for Schomberg's shooting tube.

"It is amusing to vary one's pleasures," said Chicot; "so for
a change I will go and sign the League."




CHAPTER XLVIII.

THE RECEPTION OF THE CHIEFS OF THE LEAGUE.

The time for the great reception drew near. Paris, nearly as
tumultuous as the evening before, had sent towards the Louvre
its deputation of leaguers, its bodies of workmen, its sheriffs,
its militia, and its constantly-increasing masses of spectators.

The king, on his throne in the great hall, was surrounded by his
officers, his friends, his courtiers, and his family, waiting for
all the corporations to defile before him, when M. de Monsoreau
entered abruptly.

"Look, Henriquet," said Chicot, who was standing near the king.

"At what?"

"At your chief huntsman; pardieu, he is well worth it. See how
pale and dirty he is!"

Henri made a sign to M. de Monsoreau, who approached.

"How is it that you are at the Louvre, monsieur? I thought you
at Vincennes."

"Sire, the stag was turned off at seven o'clock this morning, but
when noon came, and I had no news, I feared that some misfortune
had happened to your majesty, and I returned."

"Really!"

"Sire, if I have done wrong, attribute it to an excess of devotion."

"Yes, monsieur, and I appreciate it."

"Now," said the count, hesitatingly, "if your majesty wishes me
to return to Vincennes, as I am reassured----"

"No, no, stay; this chase was a fancy which came into our head,
and which went as it came; do not go away, I want near me devoted
subjects, and you have just classed yourself as such."

Monsoreau bowed, and said, "Where does your majesty wish me to
remain?"

"Will you give him to me for half an hour?" said Chicot to the
king, in a low voice.

"What for?"

"To torment him a little. You owe me some compensation for obliging
me to be present at this tiresome ceremony."

"Well, take him."

"Where does your majesty wish me to stand?" again asked M. de
Monsoreau.

"Where you like; go behind my armchair, that is where I put my
friends."

"Come here," said Chicot, making room for M. de Monsoreau, "come
and get the scent of these fellows. Here is game which can be
tracked without a hound. Here are the shoemakers who pass, or
rather, who have passed; then here are the tanners. Mort de ma
vie! if you lose their scent, I will take away your place."

M. de Monsoreau listened mechanically; he seemed preoccupied,
and looked around him anxiously.

"Do you know what your chief huntsman is hunting for now?" said
Chicot, in an undertone, to the king.

"No."

"Your brother."

"The game is not in sight."

"Just ask him where his countess is."

"What for?"

"Just ask."

"M. le Comte," said Henri, "what have you done with Madame de
Monsoreau? I do not see her here."

The count started, but replied, "Sire, she is ill, the air of
Paris did not agree with her; so having obtained leave from the
queen, she set out last night, with her father, for Meridor."

"Paris is not good for women in her situation," said Chicot.

Monsoreau grew pale and looked furiously at him.

"This poor countess!" continued Chicot, "she will die of ennui
by the way."

"I said that she traveled with her father."

"A father is very respectable, I allow, but not very amusing;
and if she had only that worthy baron to amuse her it would be
sad; but luckily----"

"What!" cried the count.

"What?"

"What do you mean by 'luckily'?"

"Ah, it was an ellipsis I used."

The count shrugged his shoulders.

"Oh, but it was. Ask Henri, who is a man of letters."

"Yes," said the king; "but what did your adverb mean?"

"What adverb?"

"'Luckily.'"

"'Luckily' means luckily. Luckily, then, there exist some of our
friends, and very amusing ones, who, if they meet the countess,
will amuse her, and as they are going the same way, it is probable
they will. Oh, I see them from here; do you not, Henri; you, who
are a man of imagination? There they go, on a good road, well
mounted, and saying sweet things to Madame la Comtesse, which
she likes very much, dear lady."

M. de Monsoreau was furious, but he could not show it before the
king; so he said as mildly as he could, "What, have you friends
traveling to Anjou?"

"Good; pretend to be mysterious."

"I swear to you----"

"Oh! you know they are there, although I saw you just now seeking
for them mechanically among the crowd."

"You saw me?"

"Yes, you, the palest of all chief huntsmen, past, present, and
future, from Nimrod to M. d'Aulefort, your predecessor."

"M. Chicot!"

"The palest, I repeat."

"Monsieur, will you return to the friends of whom you spoke, and
be so good as to name them, if your super-abundant imagination
will let you."

"Seek, monsieur. Morbleu, it is your occupation to hunt out animals,
witness the unlucky stag whom you deranged this morning, and who
thought it very unkind of you. Seek."

The eyes of M. de Monsoreau wandered anxiously again.

"What!" cried he, seeing a vacant place by the king, "not the
Duc d'Anjou?"

"Taint! Taint! the beast is found."

"He is gone to-day."

"He is gone to-day, but it is possible that he set out last night.
When did your brother disappear, Henri?"

"Last night."

"The duke gone!" murmured Monsoreau, paler than ever.

"I do not say he is gone, I say only that he disappeared last
night, and that his best friends do not know where he is," said
the king.

"Oh!" cried the count, "if I thought so----"

"Well; what should you do? Besides, what harm if he does talk
nonsense to Madame de Monsoreau? He is the gallant of the family,
you know."

"I am lost!" murmured the count, trying to go away. But Chicot
detained him.

"Keep still; mordieu! you shake the king's chair. Mort de ma
vie, your wife will be quite happy with the prince to talk to,
and M. Aurilly to play the lute to her." Monsoreau trembled with
anger.

"Quietly, monsieur," continued Chicot; "hide your joy, here is
the business beginning; you should not show your feelings so
openly; listen to the discourse of the king."

M. de Monsoreau was forced to keep quiet. M. de Guise entered
and knelt before the king, not without throwing an uneasy glance
of surprise on the vacant seat of M. d'Anjou. The king rose,
and the heralds commanded silence.




CHAPTER XLIX.

HOW THE KING N AXED A CHIEF WHO WAS NEITHER THE DUC DE GUISE NOR
M. D'ANJOU.

"Gentlemen," said the king, after assuring himself that his four
friends, now replaced by ten Swiss, were behind him, "a king
hears equally the voices which come to him from above and from
below, that is to say, what is commanded by God, or asked by
his people. I understand perfectly that there is a guarantee
for my people, in the association of all classes which has been
formed to defend the Catholic faith, and therefore I approve of
the counsels of my cousin De Guise. I declare, then, the Holy
League duly constituted, and as so great a body must have a powerful
head, and as it is necessary that the chief called to sustain
the Church should be one of its most zealous sons, I choose a
Christian prince for the chief, and declare that this chief shall
be"--he made a slight pause--"Henri de Valois, King of France
and Poland."

The Duc de Guise was thunderstruck. Large drops stood on his
forehead, and he looked from one to the other of his brothers.
All the leaguers uttered a murmur of surprise and discontent.
The cardinal stole up to his brother, and whispered:

"Francois; I fear we are no longer in safety here. Let us haste
to take leave, for the populace is uncertain, and the king whom
they execrated yesterday, will be their idol for two or three
days."

During this time the king had signed the act prepared beforehand
by M. de Morvilliers, the only person, with the exception of
the queen mother, who was in the secret, then he passed the pen
to the Duc de Guise, saying:

"Sign, my cousin; there, below me, now pass it to M. le Cardinal
and M. de Mayenne."

But these two had already disappeared. The king remarked their
absence, and added, "Then pass the pen to M. de Monsoreau."

The duke did so, and was about to retire, but the king said, "Wait."

And while the others signed, he added, "My cousin, it was your
advice, I believe, to guard Paris with a good army, composed of
all the forces of the League. The army is made, and the natural
general of the Parisians is the king."

"Assuredly, sire."

"But I do not forget that there is another army to command, and
that this belongs of right to the bravest soldier in my kingdom;
therefore go and command the army."

"And when am I to set out, sire?"

"Immediately."

"Henri, Henri!" whispered Chicot; but, in spite of his signs
and grimaces, the king gave the duke his brevet ready signed.
He took it and retired, and was soon out of Paris. The rest of
the assembly dispersed gradually, crying, "Vive le Roi! and Vive
la Ligue!"

"Oh, sire!" cried the favorites, approaching the king, "what a
sublime idea you have had!"

"They think that gold is going to rain on them like manna," said
Chicot, who followed his master about everywhere with lamentations.
As soon as they were left alone, "Ah! M. Chicot!" said Henri, "you
are never content. Diable! I do not ask even for complaisance,
but for good sense."

"You are right, Henri; it is what you want most."

"Confess I have done well."

"That is just what I do not think."

"Ah! you are jealous, M. Roi de France."

"I! Heaven forbid. I shall choose better subjects for jealousy."

"Corbleu."

"Oh! what self-love."

"Am I or not king of the League?"

"Certainly you are; but----"

"But what?"

"You are no longer King of France."

"And who is king then?"

"Everybody, except you; firstly, your brother----"

"My brother!"

"Yes, M. d'Anjou."

"Whom I hold prisoner."

"Yes, but prisoner as he is, he was consecrated."

"By whom was he consecrated?"

"By the Cardinal de Guise. Really, Henri, you have a fine police.
They consecrate a king at Paris before thirty-three people, in
the church of St. Genevieve, and you do not know of it!"

"Oh! and you do?"

"Certainly I do."

"How can you know what I do not?"

"Ah! because M. de Morvilliers manages your police, and I am my
own."

The king frowned.

"Well, then, without counting Henri de Valois, we have Francois
d'Anjou for king," continued Chicot; "and then there is the Duc
de Guise."

"The Duc de Guise!"

"Yes, Henri de Guise, Henri le Balfre."

"A fine king! whom I exile, whom I send to the army."

"Good! as if you were not exiled to Poland; and La Charite is
nearer to the Louvre than Cracow is. Ah, yes, you send him to the
army--that is so clever; that is to say, you put thirty thousand
men under his orders, ventre de biche! and a real army, not like
your army of the League; no, no, an army of bourgeois is good
for Henri de Valois, but Henri de Guise must have an army of
soldiers--and what soldiers? hardened warriors, capable of destroying
twenty armies of the League; so that if, being king in fact,
Henri de Guise had the folly one day to wish to be so in name,
he would only have to turn towards the capital, and say, 'Let us
swallow Paris, and Henri de Valois and the Louvre at a mouthful,'
and the rogues would do it. I know them."

"You forget one thing in your argument, illustrious politician."

"Ah, diable! it is possible! If you mean a fourth king----"

"No; you forget that before thinking of reigning in France, when
a Valois is on the throne, it would be necessary to look back
and count your ancestors. That such an idea might come to M.
d'Anjou is possible; his ancestors are mine, and it is only a
question of primogeniture. But M. de Guise!"

"Ah! that is just where you are in error."

"How so?"

"M. de Guise is of a better race than you think."

"Better than me, perhaps," said Henri, smiling.

"There is no perhaps in it."

"You are mad. Learn to read, my friend."

"Well, Henri, you who can read, read this;" and he drew from
his pocket the genealogy which we know already, handing it to
Henri, who turned pale as he recognized, near to the signature
of the prelate, the seal of St. Peter.

"What do you say, Henri? Are not your fleur-de-lys thrown a little
in the background?"

"But how did you get this genealogy?"

"I! Do I seek these things? It came to seek me."

"Where?"

"Under the bolster of a lawyer."

"And what was his name?"

"M. Nicolas David."

"Where was he?"

"At Lyons."

"And who took it from under the bolster?"

"One of my good friends."

"Who is he?"

"A monk."

"His name?"

"Gorenflot."

"What! that abominable leaguer, who uttered those incendiary
discourses at St. Genevieve, and again yesterday in the streets
of Paris?"

"You remember the history of Brutus, who pretended to be a fool?"

"He is, then, a profound politician? Did he take it from the
advocate?"

"Yes, by force."

"Then he is brave?"

"Brave as Bayard."

"And having done this, he has not asked for any recompense?"

"He returned humbly to his convent, and only asks me to forget
that he ever came out."

"Then he is modest?"

"As St. Crepin."

"Chicot, your friend shall be made a prior on the first vacancy."

"Thanks for him, Henri."

"Ma foi!" said Chicot to himself, "if he escapes being hung by
Mayenne, he will have an abbey."




CHAPTER L.

ETEOCLES AND POLYNICES.

This day of the League terminated brilliantly and tumultuously,
as it began. The friends of the king rejoiced, the preachers
proposed to canonize Brother Henri, and spoke everywhere of the
great deeds of the Valois. The favorites said, "The lion is roused."
The leaguers said, "The fox has discovered the snare."

The three Lorraine princes, as we have seen, had left Paris,
and their principal agent, M. de Monsoreau, was ready to start
for Anjou. But as he was leaving the Louvre, Chicot stopped him.

"Where are you going in such a hurry?" said he.

"To his highness."

"His highness?"

"Yes, I am unquiet about him. We do not live in times when a prince
ought to travel without a good escort."

"Well, if you are unquiet, so am I."

"About what?"

"About his highness also."

"Why?"

"Do you not know what they say?"

"That he has gone to Anjou."

"No; that he is dead."

"Bah!" said Monsoreau, with a tone of surprise, not unmixed with
joy, "you told me he was traveling."

"Diable! they persuaded me so, but now I have good reason to think
that if the poor prince be traveling, it is to another world."

"What gives you these mournful ideas?"

"He entered the Louvre yesterday, did he not?"

"Certainly; I came in with him."

"Well! he has never been seen to come out."

"From the Louvre?"

"No."

"Where is Aurilly?"

"Disappeared."

"But his people?"

"Disappeared."

"You are joking, are you not, M. Chicot?"

"Ask!"

"Whom?"

"The king."

"I cannot question his majesty."

"Oh! yes, if you go about it in the right way."

"Well," said the count. "I cannot remain in this uncertainty."
And leaving Chicot, he went to the king's apartment.

"Where is the king?" he asked: "I have to render an account to
him of the execution of some orders he gave me."

"With M. le Duc d'Anjou," replied the man.

"With the Duke; then he is not dead?"

"I am not so sure of that."

M. de Monsoreau was thoroughly bewildered; for if M. d'Anjou
were in the Louvre, his absence on such a day was unaccountable.

Immediately after the sitting, Quelus, Maugiron, Schomberg, and
D'Epernon, in spite of the ennui they experienced there, were
so anxious to be disagreeable to the duke that they returned to
him. He, on his part, was mortally ennuye, as well as anxious,
which, it must be confessed, the conversation of these gentlemen
was not calculated to remove.

"Do you know, Quelus," said Maugiron, "that it is only now I
begin to appreciate our friend Valois; really he is a great
politician."

"Explain yourself," said Quelus, who was lounging on a chair.

"While he was afraid of the conspiracy, he kept it quiet; now
he speaks of it openly, therefore he is no longer afraid of it."

"Well?"

"If he no longer fears it, he will punish it; you know Valois,
he has certainly many good qualities, but clemency is not one
of them."

"Granted."

"Then if he punishes these conspirators there will be a trial,
and we shall have a fine spectacle."

"Unless, which is possible, on account of the rank of the accused,
they arrange it all quietly."

"That would be my advice, certainly; it is better in family affairs."

Aurilly glanced at the prince.

"Ma foi," said Maugiron, "I know one thing; that in the king's
place I would not spare the high heads, which are always the
most guilty. I would make an example of one or two--one, at all
events."

"I think it would be well to revive the famous invention of sacks."

"What was that?"

"A royal fancy in the year 1550; they shut up a man in a sack, in
company with three or four cats, and threw them into the water.
The minute the cats felt the water they attacked the man, and
there passed in the sack things which unluckily could never be
seen."

"Really, Quelus, you are a well of science, and your conversation
is most interesting."

"They could not apply this invention to the chiefs; they have the
right to be beheaded; but to the small fry, I mean the favorites,
squires, and lute-players."

"Gentlemen----" stammered Aurilly.

"Do not reply to them, Aurilly," said Francois, "it cannot be
addressed to me." As he spoke the king appeared on the threshold.
The duke rose. "Sire," cried he, "I appeal against the unworthy
treatment I meet with from your followers."

Henri did not seem to hear. "Good morning, Quelus," said he kissing
his favorite on both cheeks; "good morning, the sight of you
rejoices my soul, and you, my poor Maugiron, how are you?"

"I am terribly ennuye, sire; when I undertook to guard your brother,
I thought he was more amusing. Oh I the tiresome prince; are you
sure he is the son of your father and mother?"

"Sire! you hear," cried the prince, "is it your wish that your
brother should be insulted?"

"Silence, monsieur," said Henri, "I do not like my prisoners to
complain."

"Prisoner, or not, I am your----"

"The title which you are about to invoke," interrupted the king,
"is fatal to you. My brother guilty, is doubly guilty."

"But if he is not?"

"He is."

"Of what crime?"

"Of having displeased me."

"Sire, have our family quarrels need of witnesses?"

"You are right, monsieur. My friends, let, me speak a little to
my brother."

"I will take Aurilly," said Maugiron.

"Now we are alone, monsieur," said the king, when they were gone.

"I waited for this moment impatiently."

"And I also; ah, you want my crown, my worthy Eteocles; you made of
the League a means, and of the throne an aim, and were consecrated
in a corner of Paris, to be able to proclaim yourself to the
Parisians shining with holy oil."

"Alas! your majesty will not let me speak."

"What for?--to lie, or to tell me things which I know already?
But no, you would lie; for to confess what you have done, would
be to confess that you merit death. You would lie, and I would
spare you that shame."

"My brother, is it your intention to overwhelm me with outrages?"

"If what I say is an outrage, it is I who lie, and I ask no better.
Speak then, I listen; tell me you are not disloyal, and at the
same time unskilful."

"I do not know what your majesty means; you speak enigmas."

"Then I will explain my words; you have conspired against me,
as formerly you conspired against my brother Charles, only then
it was by the aid of Henri of Navarre, and now it is with the
assistance of the Duc de Guise. It is true that formerly you
crawled like a serpent; now you wish to spring like the lion;
after perfidy, open force; after poison, the sword."

"Poison! what do you mean?" cried Francois, with flashing eyes.

"The poison with which you assassinated our brother Charles,
which you destined for Henry of Navarre, your associate. That
fatal poison is known; our mother has used it so often, which
is doubtless the reason why you renounced it on this occasion,
and preferred rather the part of captain of the League. But look
me in the face, Francois, and learn that a man like you shall
never kill me. A sword! Ah! I should like to see you here in
this room alone with me, holding a sword. I have conquered you
in cunning, and in a combat you would be killed. Dream no longer
of struggling against me in any manner, for from this moment I
act as king--as master--as despot; I shall watch you everywhere,
follow you everywhere, and, at the least suspicion, I will throw
you to the axe of my executioner. This is what I had to say to
you in private, and I will order you to be left alone to-night
to ponder over my words."

"Then, sire, for a suspicion, I have fallen into disgrace with
you?"

"Say, under my justice."

"But, at least, sire, fix a term to my captivity, that I may know
what to expect?"

"You will know when you hear your sentence read."

"Can I not see my mother?"

"What for? There were but three copies in the world of the famous
hunting-book which killed my poor brother, and of the two others,
one is in London and the other at Florence. Besides, I am not
a Nimrod, like my poor brother; adieu, Francois."

"Gentlemen," said the king, opening the door, "the Duc d'Anjou
has requested to be alone to-night to reflect on an answer he
has to make to me to-morrow morning. Leave him then alone, except
occasional visits of precaution. If he be troublesome, call me;
I have the Bastile ready, and the governor, M. Laurent Testu,
is the best man in the world to conquer ill tempers."

"Sire," cried Francois, trying a last effort, "remember I am
your----"

"You were also the brother of Charles IX., I think."

"At least restore me to my friends."

"I deprive myself of mine to give them to you." And Henri shut
the door, while the duke fell in despair into his armchair.




CHAPTER LI.

HOW PEOPLE DO NOT ALWAYS LOSE THEIR TIME BY SEARCHING EMPTY DRAWERS.

The scene which the duke had just had with the king made him
regard his position as desperate. The minions had not allowed him
to be ignorant of what had passed, and he had heard the people
cry, "Vive le roi!" He felt himself abandoned by the other chiefs,
who had themselves to save. In his quarrels with his brother
Charles he had always had for confidants, or rather dupes, those
two devoted men, Coconnas and La Mole, and, for the first time
in his life, feeling himself alone and isolated, he felt a kind
of remorse at having sacrificed them. During that time his sister
Marguerite loved and consoled him. How had he recompensed her?

He had recently had near him a brave and valiant heart and
sword--Bussy, the brave Bussy. And he had offended him to please
Monsoreau, who had his secret, with which he always threatened him,
and which was now known to the king. He had therefore quarreled
with Bussy gratuitously, and, above all, uselessly, which as a
great politician once said, "was more than a crime, it was a
mistake!" How he would have rejoiced in his present situation,
to know that Bussy was watching over him; Bussy the loyal, Bussy
the universal favorite. It would have been probable liberty and
certain vengeance.

But as we have said, Bussy, wounded to the heart, kept away from
the prince, so the prisoner remained fifty feet above the ground,
with the four favorites in the corridor, without counting the
court full of Swiss. Besides this, one or other of the young men
entered from time to time, and, without seeming even to notice
the prince, went round the room, examined the doors and windows,
looked under the beds and tables, and glanced at the curtains
and sheets.

"Ma foi!" said Maugiron, after one of these visits, "I have done;
I am not going to look after him any more to-night."

"Yes," said D'Epernon, "as long as we guard him, there is no need
of going to look at him."

"And he is not handsome to look at," said Quelus.

"Still," said Schomberg, "I think we had better not relax our
vigilance, for the devil is cunning."

"Yes, but not cunning enough to pass over the bodies of four men
like us."

"That is true," said Quelus.

"Oh!" said Schomberg, "do you think, if he wants to fly, he will
choose our corridor to come through? He would make a hole in
the wall."

"With what?"

"Then he has the windows."

"Ah! the windows, bravo, Schomberg; would you jump forty-five
feet?"

"I confess that forty-five feet----"

"Yes, and he who is lame, and heavy, and timid as----"

"You," said Schomberg.

"You know I fear nothing but phantoms--that is an affair of the
nerves."

"The last phantom was," said Quelus, "that all those whom he had
killed in duels appeared to him one night."

"However," said Maugiron, "I have read of wonderful escapes; with
sheets, for instance."

"Ah! that is more sensible. I saw myself, at Bordeaux, a prisoner
who escaped by the aid of his sheets."

"You see, then?"

"Yes, but he had his leg broken, and his neck, too; his sheets
were thirty feet too short, and he had to jump, so that while
his body escaped from prison, his soul escaped from his body."

"Besides," said Quelus, "if he escapes, we will follow him, and
in catching him some mischief might happen to him."

So they dismissed the subject. They were perfectly right that
the duke was not likely to attempt a perilous escape. From time
to time his pale face was at the window which overlooked the
fosses of the Louvre, beyond which was an open space about fifteen
feet broad, and then the Seine rolled calm as a mirror. On the
other side rose, like a giant, the tower of Nesle.

He had watched the sunset and the gradual extinction of all the
lights. He had contemplated the beautiful spectacle of old Paris,
with its roofs gilded by the last rays of the sun, and silvered
by the first beams of the moon; then little by little he was
seized with a great terror at seeing immense clouds roll over
the sky and announce a storm. Among his other weaknesses, the Duc
d'Anjou was afraid of thunder, and he would have given anything
to have had his guardians with him again, even if they insulted
him. He threw himself on his bed, but found it impossible to
sleep. Then he began to swear, and break everything near him.
It was a family failing, and they were accustomed to it at the
Louvre. The young men had opened the door to see what the noise
meant, and seeing that it was the duke amusing himself, they had
shut it again, which redoubled his anger. He had just broken
a chair, when a crashing of glass was heard at the window, and
he felt a sharp blow on his thigh. His first idea was that he
was wounded by some emissary of the king's.

"Ah! I am dead!" he cried, and fell on the carpet. But as he
fell his hand came in contact with a larger and rougher substance
than a ball.

"Oh! a stone," thought he, and feeling his leg, he found it
uninjured. He picked up the stone and looked at it, and saw that
it was wrapped in a piece of paper. Then the duke's ideas began
to change. Might not this stone come from a friend as well as
an enemy. He approached the light, cut the silk which tied the
paper round the stone and read,--


"Are you tired of keeping your room? Do you love open air and
liberty? Enter the little room where the Queen of Navarre hid
your poor friend, M. de la Mole, open the cupboard, and, by
displacing the lowest bracket, you will find a double bottom; in
this there is a silk ladder; attach it yourself to the balcony,
two vigorous arms will hold it at the bottom. A horse, swift as
thought, will lead you to a safe place.

"A FRIEND."


"A friend!" cried the prince; "oh! I did not know I had a friend.
Who is this friend who thinks of me?" And the duke ran to the
window, but could see no one.

"Can it be a snare?" thought he; "but first let me see if there
is a double bottom and a ladder."

The duke then, leaving the light where it was for precaution,
groped his way to the cabinet, which he knew so well. He opened
it, felt for the bottom shelf, and, to his great joy, found what
he looked for. As a thief escapes with his booty, the duke rushed
into the next room with his prey. Ten o'clock struck; the duke
thought of his hourly visitors, and hid his ladder under a cushion,
on which he sat down. Indeed, five minutes had not passed before
Maugiron appeared in a dressing-gown, with a sword in one hand
and a light in the other. As he came in one of his friends said
to him, "The bear is furious, he was breaking everything just
now; take care he does not devour you, Maugiron."

Maugiron made his usual examination; he saw a broken window, but
thought the duke had done it in his rage.

"Maugiron!" cried Schomberg, from outside, "are you already eaten
that you do not speak? In that case, sigh, at least, that we
may know and avenge you."

The duke trembled with impatience.

"No, no," said Maugiron, "on the contrary, my bear is quite
conquered."

And so saying he went out and locked the door. When the key had
ceased to turn in the lock the duke murmured,--

"Take care, gentlemen, or the duke will be too much for you."




CHAPTER LII.

VENTRE ST. GRIS.

Left alone, the duke, knowing he had at least an hour before
him, drew out his ladder and carefully examined the fastenings.

"The ladder is good," said he, at length, "and will not break."

Then he unrolled it all, and counted thirty-eight rounds of fifteen
inches each.

"The length is sufficient," said he, "there is nothing to fear
on that point. Ah! but if it were some of those cursed minions
who sent me to the ladder? If I attach it to the balcony they
will let me do it, and while I am descending they will cut the
cords. But, no; they could not be foolish enough to think I would
fly without barricading the door, and I should have time to fly
before they could force it. But what person in the world, except my
sister herself, could know of a ladder hidden in her dressing-room?
What friend of mine can it be?"

Suddenly an idea struck him, and he cried, "Bussy!"

Indeed, Bussy, whom so many ladies adored, Bussy was a hero to
the Queen of Navarre, and his only true friend--was it Bussy?
Everything made him think so. The duke, of course, did not know
all his motives for being angry with him, for he did not know
his love for Diana, and believed him to be too noble to think of
resentment when his master was a prisoner. He approached the window
again, and fancied he could see in the fog the indistinct forms
of three horses and two men by the river. Two men. These must be
Bussy and Remy. He then looked through the keyhole, and saw his
four guardians; two were asleep, and two had inherited Chicot's
chessboard and were playing. He extinguished his light.

Then he opened his window, and looked over the balcony; the gulf
below him looked dreadful in the darkness, and he drew back. But
air and liberty have an attraction so irresistible to a prisoner,
that Francois, on withdrawing from the window, felt as if he
were being stifled, and for an instant something like disgust
of life and indifference to death passed through his mind. He
fancied he was growing courageous, and, profiting by this moment
of excitement, he seized the ladder, fixed it to the balcony,
then barricaded the door as well as he could, and returned to
the window. The darkness was now great, and the first growlings
of the storm began to make themselves heard; a great cloud with
silver fringes extended itself like a recumbent elephant from one
side to the other of the river. A flash of lightning broke the
immense cloud for a moment, and the prince fancied that he saw
below him in the fosse the same figures he had imagined before. A
horse neighed; there was no more doubt--he was waited for.

He shook the ladder to see if it was firm, then he put his leg
over the balustrade and placed his foot on the first step. Nothing
can describe the anguish of the prisoner at this moment, placed
between a frail silk cord on the one hand and his brother's cruel
menaces on the other. But as he stood there he felt the ladder
stiffened; some one held it. Was it a friend or an enemy? Were
they open arms or armed ones which waited for him? An irresistible
terror seized him; he still held the balcony with his left hand,
and made a movement to remount, when a very slight pull at the
ladder came to him like a solicitation. He took courage, and
tried the second step. The ladder was held as firm as a rock,
and he found a steady support for his foot. He descended rapidly,
almost gliding down, when all at once, instead of touching the
earth, which he knew to be near, he felt himself seized in the
arms of a man who whispered, "You are saved." Then he was carried
along the fosse till they came to the end, when another man seized
him by the collar and drew him up, and after having aided his
companion in the same way, they ran to the river, where stood
the horses. The prince knew he was at, the mercy of his saviours,
so he jumped at once on a horse, and his companions did the same.
The same voice now said, "Quick!" And they set off at a gallop.

"All goes well at present," thought the prince, "let us hope it
will end so. Thanks, my brave Bussy," said he to his companion
on the right, who was entirely covered with a large cloak.

"Quick!" replied the other.

They arrived thus at the great ditch of the Bastile, which they
crossed on a bridge improvised by the Leaguers the night before.
The three cavaliers rode towards Charenton, when all at once
the man on the right entered the forest of Vincennes, saying
only, "Come." The prince's horse neighed, and several others
answered from the depths of the forest. Francois would have stopped
if he could, for he feared they were taking him to an ambush,
but it was too late, and in a few minutes he found himself in
a small open space, where eight or ten men on horseback were
drawn up.

"Oh! oh!" said the prince, "what does this mean, monsieur?"

"Ventre St. Gris! it means that we are saved."

"You! Henri!" cried the duke, stupefied, "you! my liberator?"

"Does that astonish you? Are we not related, Agrippa?" continued
he, looking round for his companion.

"Here I am," said D'Aubigne.

"Are there two fresh horses, with which we can go a dozen leagues
without stopping?"

"But where are you taking me, my cousin?"

"Where you like, only be quick, for the King of France has more
horses than I have, and is rich enough to kill a dozen if he
wishes to catch us."

"Really, then, I am free to go where I like?"

"Certainly, I wait your orders."

"Well, then, to Angers."

"To Angers; so be it, there you are at home."

"But you?"

"I! when we are in sight of Angers I shall leave you, and ride
on to Navarre, where my good Margot expects me, and must be much
ennuyee at my absence."

"But no one knew you were here?"

"I came to sell three diamonds of my wife's."

"Ah! very well."

"And also to know if this League was really going to ruin me."

"You see there is nothing in it."

"Thanks to you, no."

"How! thanks to me?"

"Certainly. If, instead of refusing to be chief of the League,
when you knew it was directed against me, you had accepted, I
was ruined. Therefore, when I heard that the king had punished
your refusal with imprisonment, I swore to release you, and I
have done so."

"Always so simple-minded," thought Francois, "really, it is easy
to deceive him."

"Now for Anjou," thought the king. "Ah! M. de Guise, I send you
a companion you do not want."




CHAPTER LIII.

THE FRIENDS.

While Paris was in this ferment, Madame de Monsoreau, escorted
by her father and two servants, pursued their way to Meridor. She
began to enjoy her liberty, precious to those who have suffered.
The azure of the sky, compared to that which hung always menacingly
over the black towers of the Bastile, the trees already green,
all appeared to her fresh and young, beautiful and new, as if
she had really come out of the tomb where her father had believed
her. He, the old baron, had grown young again. We will not attempt
to describe their long journey, free from incidents. Several
times the baron said to Diana,--

"Do not fear, my daughter."

"Fear what?"

"Were you not looking if M. de Monsoreau was following us?"

"Yes, it was true, I did look," replied she, with a sigh and another
glance behind.

At last, on the eighth day, they reached the chateau of Meridor,
and were received by Madame de St. Luc and her husband. Then
began for these four people one of those existences of which
every man has dreamed in reading Virgil or Theocritus. The baron
and St. Luc hunted from morning till evening; you might have
seen troops of dogs rushing from the hills in pursuit of some
hare or fox, and startling Diana and Jeanne, as they sat side
by side on the moss, under the shade of the trees.

"Recount to me," said Jeanne, "all that happened to you in the
tomb, for you were dead to us. See, the hawthorn is shedding
on us its last flowers, and the elders send out their perfume.
Not a breath in the air, not a human being near us; recount,
little sister."

"What can I say?"

"Tell me, are you happy? That beautiful eye often swimming in
tears, the paleness of your cheeks, that mouth which tries a
smile which it never finishes--Diana, you must have many things
to tell me."

"No, nothing."

"You are, then, happy with M. de Monsoreau?"

Diana shuddered.

"You see!" said Jeanne.

"With M. de Monsoreau! Why did you pronounce that name? why do
you evoke that phantom in the midst of our woods, our flowers,
our happiness?"

"You told me, I think," said Jeanne, "that M. de Bussy showed
much interest in you."

Diana reddened, even to her round pretty ears.

"He is a charming creature," continued Jeanne, kissing Diana.

"It is folly," said Diana; "M. de Bussy thinks no more of Diana
de Meridor."

"That is possible; but I believe he pleases Diana de Monsoreau
a little."

"Do not say that."

"Does it displease you?"

"I tell you he thinks no more of me; and he does well--oh, I was
cowardly."

"What do you say?"

"Nothing, nothing."

"Now, Diana, do not cry, do not accuse yourself. You cowardly!
you, my heroine! you were constrained."

"I believed it; I saw dangers, gulfs under my feet. Now, Jeanne,
these dangers seem to me chimerical, these gulfs as if a child
could cross them. I was cowardly, I tell you; oh, I had no time
to reflect."

"You speak in enigmas."

"No," cried Diana, rising, "it was not my fault, it was his.
The Duc d'Anjou was against him; but when one wishes a thing,
when one loves, neither prince nor master should keep you back.
See, Jeanne, if I loved----"

"Be calm, dear friend."

"I tell you, _we_ were cowardly."

"'We!' of whom do you speak? That 'we' is eloquent, my dearest
Diana."

"I mean my father and I; you did not think anything else, did
you? My father is a nobleman--he might have spoken to the king;
I am proud, and do not fear a man when I hate him. But _he_
did not love me."

"You lie to yourself! you know the contrary, little hypocrite!"

"You may believe in love, Jeanne, you, whom M. de St. Luc married
in spite of the king; you, whom he carried away from Paris; you,
who pay him by your caresses for proscription and exile."

"And he thinks himself richly repaid."

"But I--reflect a little, do not be egotistical--I, whom that
fiery young man pretended to love--I, who fixed the regards of
that invincible Bussy, he who fears no one--I was alone with him
in the cloister of l'Egyptienne--we were alone; but for Gertrude
and Remy, our accomplices, he could have carried me off. At that
moment I saw him suffering because of me; I saw his eyes languishing,
his lips pale and parched with fever. If he had asked me to die
to restore the brightness to his eyes, and the freshness to his
lips, I should have died. Well, I went away, and he never tried
to detain me. Wait still. He knew that I was leaving Paris, that
I was returning to Meridor; he knew that M. de Monsoreau--I blush
as I tell it--was only my husband in name; he knew that I traveled
alone; and along the road, dear Jeanne, I kept turning, thinking
I heard the gallop of his horse behind us. But no, it was only
the echo of my own. I tell you he does not think of me. I am
not worth a journey to Anjou while there are so many beautiful
women at the court of France, whose smiles are worth a hundred
confessions from the provincial, buried at Meridor. Do you understand
now? Am I forgotten, despised----"

She had not finished when the foliage of the oak rustled, a quantity
of mortar and moss fell from the old wall, and a man threw himself
at the feet of Diana, who uttered an affrighted cry.

Jeanne ran away--she recognized him.

"Here I am!" cried Bussy, kissing the dress of Diana.

She too recognized him, and, overcome by this unexpected happiness,
fell unconscious into the arms of him whom she had just accused
of indifference.




CHAPTER LIV.

BUSSY AND DIANA.

Faintings from love seldom last any length of time, nor are they
very dangerous. Diana was not long in opening her eyes, and finding
herself supported by Bussy.

"Oh!" murmured she, "it was shocking, count, to surprise us thus."

Bussy expected other words, men are so exacting, but Diana said
no more, and, disengaging herself gently from his arms, ran to
her friend, who, seeing her faint, had returned softly, and stood
a little way off.

"Is it thus that you receive me, madame?"

"No, M. de Bussy, but----"

"Oh! no 'but,' madame," sighed Bussy, drawing near again.

"No, no, not on your knees!"

"Oh! let me pray to you an instant, thus!" cried the count. "I
have so longed for this place."

"Yes, but to come to it, you jumped over the wall. Not only is it
not suitable for a man of your rank, but it is very imprudent."

"How so?"

"If you had been seen?"

"Who could have seen me?"

"Our hunters, who, a quarter of an hour ago, passed by this wall."

"Do not be uneasy, madame, I hide myself too carefully to be seen."

"Hidden! really!" said Jeanne, "tell us how, M. de Bussy."

"Firstly, if I did not join you on the road, it was not my fault,
I took one route and you another. You came by Rambouillet, and I
by Chartres. And then judge if your poor Bussy be not in love;
I did not dare to join you. It was not in the presence of your
father and your servants that I wished to meet you again, for I
did not desire to compromise you, so I made the journey stage by
stage, devoured by impatience. At last you arrived. I had taken
a lodging in the village, and, concealed behind the window, I
saw you pass."

"Oh! mon Dieu! are you then at Angers under your own name?"

"For what do you take me? I am a traveling merchant; look at my
costume, it is of a color much worn among drapers and goldsmiths.
I have not been remarked."

"Bussy, the handsome Bussy, two days in a provincial town and
not remarked; who would believe that at court?" said Jeanne.

"Continue, count," said Diana, blushing; "how do you come here
from the town?"

"I have two horses of a chosen race; I leave the village on one,
stopping to look at all the signs and writings, but when out of
sight my horse takes to a gallop, which brings him the four miles
in half an hour. Once in the wood of Meridor I ride to the park wall,
but it is very long, for the park is large. Yesterday I explored
this wall for more than four hours, climbing up here and there,
hoping to see you. At last, when I was almost in despair, I saw
you in the evening returning to the house; the two great dogs of
the baron were jumping round you. When you had disappeared, I jumped
over, and saw the marks on the grass where you had been sitting.
I fancied you might have adopted this place, which is charming,
during the heat of the sun, so I broke away some branches that I
might know it again, and sighing, which hurts me dreadfully----"

"From want of habit," said Jeanne.

"I do not say no, madame; well, then, sighing, I retook my way
to the town. I was very tired, I had torn my dress in climbing
trees, but I had seen you, and I was happy."

"It is an admirable recital," said Jeanne, "and you have surmounted
dreadful obstacles; it is quite heroic; but in your place I would
have preserved my doublet, and above all, have taken care of
my white hands. Look at yours, how frightful they are with
scratches."

"Yes, but then I should not have seen her whom I came to see."

"On the contrary, I should have seen her better than you did."

"What would you have done then?"

"I would have gone straight to the Chateau de Meridor. M. le
Baron would have pressed me in his arms, Madame de Monsoreau
would have placed me by her at table, M. de St. Luc would have
been delighted to see me, and his wife also. It was the simplest
thing in the world, but lovers never think of what is straight
before them."

Bussy smiled at Diana. "Oh, no," he said, "that would not have
done for me."

"Then I no longer understand what good manners are."

"No," said Bussy, "I could not go to the castle; M. le Baron would
watch his daughter."

"Good!" said Jeanne, "here is a lesson for me," and kissing Diana
on the forehead, she ran away. Diana tried to stop her, but Bussy
seized her hands, and she let her friend go. They remained alone.

"Have I not done well, madame," said Bussy, "and do you not approve?"

"I do not desire to feign," said Diana, "besides, it would be
useless; you know I approve; but here must stop my indulgence;
in calling for you as I did just now I was mad--I was guilty."

"Mon Dieu! What do you say?"

"Alas I count, the truth; I have a right to make M. de Monsoreau
unhappy, to withhold from him my smiles and my love, but I have
no right to bestow them on another: for, after all, he is my
master."

"Now, you will let me speak, will you not?"

"Speak!"

"Well! of all that you have just said, you do not find one word
in your heart."

"How!"

"Listen patiently; you have overwhelmed me with sophisms. The
commonplaces of morality do not apply here; this man is your
master, you say, but did you choose him? No; fate imposed him
on you, and you submitted. Now, do you mean to suffer all your
life the consequences, of this odious constraint? I will deliver
you from it."

Diana tried to speak, but Bussy stopped her.

"Oh! I know what you are going to say; that if I provoke M. de
Monsoreau and kill him, you will see me no more. So be it; I
may die of grief, but you will live free and happy, and you may
render happy some gallant man, who in his joy will sometimes bless
my name, and cry, 'Thanks, Bussy, thanks, for having delivered
us from that dreadful Monsoreau;' and you, yourself, Diana, who
will not dare to thank me while living, will thank me dead."

Diana seized his hand.

"You have not yet implored me, Bussy; you begin with menaces."

"Menace you! oh! could I have such an intention, I, who love
you so ardently, Diana. I know you love me; do not deny it, I
know it, for you have avowed it. Here, on my knees before you,
my hand on my heart, which has never lied, either from interest
or from fear, I say to you, Diana, I love you, for my whole life.
Diana, I swear to you, that if I die for you, it will be in adoring
you. If you still say to me, 'go,' I will go without a sigh, or
complaint, from this place where I am so happy, and I should
say, 'this woman does not love me, and never will love me.' Then
I should go away, and you would see me no more, but as my devotion
for you is great, my desire to see you happy would survive the
certainty that I could never be happy myself."

Bussy said this with so much emotion, and, at the same time firmness,
that Diana felt sure that he would do all he said, and she cried,--

"Thanks, count, for you take from me all remorse by your threats."

Saying these words, she gave him her hand, which he kissed
passionately. Then they heard the light steps of Jeanne, accompanied
by a warning cough. Instinctively the clasped hands parted. Jeanne
saw it.

"Pardon, my good friends, for disturbing you," said she, "but
we must go in if we do not wish to be sent for. M. le Comte,
regain, if you please, your excellent horse, and let us go to
the house. See what you lose by your obstinacy, M. de Bussy,
a dinner at the chateau, which is not to be despised by a man
who has had a long ride, and has been climbing trees, without
counting all the amusement we could have had, or the glances
that might have passed. Come, Diana, come away."

Bussy looked at the two friends with a smile. Diana held out her
hand to him.

"Is that all?" said he; "have you nothing to say?"

"Till to-morrow," replied she.

"Only to-morrow."

"To-morrow, and always."

Bussy uttered a joyful exclamation, pressed his lips to her hand,
and ran off. Diana watched him till he was out of sight.

"Now!" said Jeanne, when he had disappeared, "will you talk to
me a little?"

"Oh! yes."

"Well! to-morrow I shall go to the chase with St. Luc and your
father."

"What, you will leave me alone at the chateau!"

"Listen, dear friend; I also have my principles, and there are
certain things that I cannot consent to do."

"Oh, Jeanne!" cried Diana, growing pale, "can you say such things
to me?"

"Yes, I cannot continue thus."

"I thought you loved me, Jeanne. What cannot you continue?"

"Continue to prevent two poor lovers from talking to each other
at their ease." Diana seized in her arms the laughing young woman.

"Listen!" said Jeanne, "there are the hunters calling us, and
poor St. Luc is impatient."




CHAPTER LV.

HOW BUSSY WAS OFFERED THREE HUNDRED PISTOLES FOR HIS HORSE, AND
PARTED WITH HIM FOR NOTHING.

The next day, Bussy left Angers before the most wakeful bourgeois
had had their breakfast. He flew along the road, and Diana, mounted
on a terrace in front of the castle, saw him coming, and went
to meet him. The sun had scarcely risen over the great oaks,
and the grass was still wet with dew, when she heard from afar,
as she went along, the horn of St. Luc, which Jeanne incited
him to sound. She arrived at the meeting-place just as Bussy
appeared on the wall. The day passed like an hour. What had they
to say? That they loved each other. What had they to wish for?
They were together.

"Diana," said Bussy at length, "it seems to me as though my life
had begun only to-day. You have shown me what it is to live."

"And I," replied she, "who not long ago would have willingly
thrown myself into the arms of death, would now tremble to die
and lose your love. But why do you not come to the castle? My
father would be glad to see you, and M. de St. Luc is your friend."

"Alas, Diana, if I came once, I should be always there; all the
province would know it, and if it came to the ears of that ogre,
your husband, he would hasten here. You forbid me to deliver
you from him----"

"Oh, yes!"

"Well, then, for the safety of our happiness, we must guard our
secret. Madame de St. Luc knows it, and her husband soon will. I
have written him a line this morning, asking him for an interview
at Angers, and when he comes I will make him promise never to
breathe a word of this. It is the more important, dear Diana,
as doubtless they are seeking me everywhere. Things looked grave
when I left Paris.

"You are right; and then my father is so scrupulous that, in
spite of his love for me, he is capable of denouncing me to M.
de Monsoreau."

"Let us hide ourselves well, then; I fear some evil spirit, jealous
of our happiness."

"Say adieu to me, then; and do not ride so fast--your horse frightens
me."

"Fear nothing; he knows the way, and is the gentlest and safest
horse I ever rode. When I return to the city, buried in sweet
thoughts, he takes the way without my touching the bridle."

At last the sound of the returning chase was heard, the horns
playing an air agreed upon with Jeanne, and Bussy left. As he
approached the city, he remarked that the time was approaching
when the gates of the city would be closed. He was preparing to
ride on quickly, when he heard behind him the gallop of horses.
For a lover who wishes to remain concealed, as for a robber,
everything seems a menace. Bussy asked himself whether he should
ride on or draw up and let them pass, but their course was so
rapid that they were up to him in a moment. There were two.

"Here is the city," said one, with a Gascon accent; "three hundred
more blows with the whip, and one hundred with the spur; courage
and vigor!"

"The beast has no more breath--he shivers and totters; he will
not go on; and yet I would give a hundred horses to be in my
city before nightfall."

"It is some Angers man out late," thought Bussy. "But look, the
horse is falling; take care, monsieur," cried he; "quit your
horse--he is about to fall."

Indeed, as he spoke the animal fell heavily on his side, shook
his legs convulsively, then suddenly his breath stopped, his
eyes grew dim, and he was dead.

"Monsieur!" cried the cavalier to Bussy, "three hundred pistoles
for your horse!"

"Ah, mon Dieu!" cried Bussy, drawing near.

"Do you hear me, monsieur? I am in haste."

"Ah! my prince, take it for nothing," cried Bussy, who had recognized
tae Duc d'Anjou.

At the same moment they heard the click of a pistol, which was
cocked by the duke's companion.

"Stop, M. d'Aubigne," cried the duke, "it is Bussy, I believe."

"Oh! yes, my prince, it is I. But what, in Heaven's name are you
doing, killing horses on the road at this hour?"

"Ah! is it M. de Bussy?" said D'Aubigne, "then you do not want
me any more. Permit me to return to him who sent me?"

"Not without receiving my sincere thanks and the promise of a
lasting friendship."

"I accept it, monseigneur, and will recall your words to you some
day."

"M. D'Aubigne! I am in the clouds," murmured Bussy.

"Did you not know? As you are here, did you not expect me?" said
the prince, with an air of suspicion which did not escape Bussy,
who began to reflect that his secret residence in Anjou might
seem very strange to the prince.

"I did better than expect you," said Bussy, "and as you wish to
enter the town before the gates are closed, jump into the saddle,
monseigneur."

The prince accepted, and Bussy mounted behind him, asking himself
if this prince, dressed in black, were not the evil spirit sent
already to disturb his happiness.

"Where do we go now, monseigneur?" said he, as they entered the
city.

"To the castle. Let them hoist my banner and convoke the nobility
of the district."

"Nothing more easy," said Bussy, full of surprise, but willing
to be docile. The news was soon spread through the city that
the duke had arrived, and a crowd soon collected.

"Gentlemen!" cried the duke, "I have come to throw myself into my
good city of Angers. At Paris the most terrible dangers have menaced
my life--I had lost even my liberty. I succeeded in escaping, thanks
to some good friends, and now I am here I feel my tranquillity
and my life assured."

The people cried, "Long live our seigneur."

"Now let me sup," said the prince, "I have had nothing since the
morning."

The city was illuminated, guns were fired, the bells of the cathedral
were rung, and the wind carried to Meridor the noisy joy of the
good Angevins.




CHAPTER LVI.

THE DIPLOMACY OF THE DUC D'ANJOU.

When the duke and Bussy were left alone, the duke said, "Let us
talk."

Francois, who was very quick, had perceived that Bussy had made
more advances to him than usual, therefore he judged that he was
in some embarrassing situation, and that he might, by a little
address, get an advantage over him. But Bussy had had time to
prepare himself, and he was quite ready.

"Yes, let us talk, monseigneur," replied he.

"The last day I saw you, my poor Bussy, you were very ill."

"It is true, monseigneur, I was very ill, and it was almost a
miracle that saved me."

"There was near you a doctor very devoted to you, for he growled
at everyone who approached you."

"True, prince, Remy loves me."

"He kept you rigorously to your bed, did he not?"

"At which I was in a great rage, as your highness might have seen."

"But, if that were the case, why did you not send the doctor to
the devil, and come out with me as I begged you to do? But as
it was a grave affair, you were afraid to compromise yourself."

"Did you say I was afraid?"

"I did say so."

"Well, then, it was a lie!" said Bussy, jumping up from his chair;
you lied to yourself, monseigneur, for you do not believe a single
word of what you say. There are twenty scars on my body, which
prove the contrary. I never knew fear, and, ma foi, I know people
who cannot say the same."

"You have always unanswerable arguments, M. de Bussy," cried the
duke, turning very pale; "when you are accused, you cry louder
than your accuser, and then you think you are right."

"Oh! I am not always right, I know well, but I know on what occasions
I am wrong."

"And what are they?"

"When I serve ungrateful people."

"Really, monsieur, I think you forget yourself," said the duke,
with some dignity. Bussy moved towards the door, but the prince
stopped him.

"Do you deny, monsieur," said he, "that after refusing to go out
with me, you went out immediately after?"

"I deny nothing, monseigneur, but I will not be forced to
confession."

"Tell me why you would not go out with me."

"I had business."

"At home?"

"Or elsewhere."

"I thought that when a gentleman was in the service of a prince,
his principal business was that of the prince."

"And who does your business generally, monseigneur, if not I?"

"I do not say no; generally I find you faithful and devoted, and,
I will say more, I excuse your bad humor."

"You are very good."

"Yes, for you had some reason to be angry."

"Ah! you confess it."

"Yes, I promised you the disgrace of M. de Monsoreau. It seems
you hate him very much."

"I! not at all. I find him very ugly, and should have liked him
away from court, not to have had to look at him. It seems, however,
that you admire him, and there is no accounting for tastes."

"Well, then, as that was your sole excuse, you were doubly wrong
to refuse to accompany me, and then to go out after, and commit
follies."

"Follies! what did I do?"

"Doubtless, you do not like MM. d'Epernon and Schomberg, neither
do I, but one must have some prudence. Kill them, and I should
be grateful to you, but do not exasperate them."

"What did I do to them?"

"Why, you had D'Epernon stoned."

"I!"

"Yes, so that his clothes were torn to pieces."

"Good! and what about M. Schomberg?"

"You will not deny that you had him dyed indigo color? When I
saw him three hours after, he was still bright blue. Do you call
that a joke?" And the prince laughed in spite of himself, and
Bussy joined him.

"Then," said he, "they think it was I who played them these tricks!"

"Perhaps it was I."

"And you have the conscience to reproach a man who had such fine
ideas."

"Well, I pardon you. But I have another complaint to make. What
did you do to deliver me from my unlucky situation?"

"You see, I came to Anjou."

"It seems to me that you would have been more useful nearer."

"Ah! there we differ; I preferred coming to Anjou."

"Your caprice is a bad reason."

"But, if I came to gather your partisans?"

"Ah! that is different. What have you done?"

"I will explain that to you to-morrow; at present I must leave
you."

"Why!"

"I have to see an important person."

"Oh, very well; but be prudent."

"Prudent! are we not the strongest here?"

"Never mind, risk nothing. Have you done much?"

"I have only been here two days."

"But you keep yourself concealed, I hope."

"I should think so. Look at my dress; am I in the habit of wearing
cinnamon-colored clothes?"

"And where are you lodging?"

"Ah! I hope you will appreciate my devotion; in a tumble-down
old house, near the ramparts. But you, my prince, how did you
get out of the Louvre? How was it that I found you on the road,
with M. d'Aubigne for a companion?"

"Because I have friends."

"You! friends!"

"Yes, friends that you do not know."

"Well, and who are they?"

"The King of Navarre and D'Aubigne, whom you saw."

"The King of Navarre! Ah! true, did you not conspire together?"

"I never conspired, M. de Bussy."

"No; ask poor La Mole and Coconnas."

"La Mole," said the prince, gloomily, "died for another crime
than the one alleged against him."

"Well, never mind him. How the devil did you get out of the Louvre?"

"Through the window."

"Which window?"

"That of my bedroom."

"Then you knew of the rope-ladder?"

"What rope-ladder?"

"In the cupboard."

"Ah! it seems you knew it," cried the prince, turning pale.

"Oh! your highness knows I have sometimes had the happiness of
entering that room."

"In the time of my sister Margot. Then you came in by the window?"

"As you came out. All that astonishes me is, that you knew of
the ladder."

"It was not I who found it."

"Who then?"

"I was told of it."

"By whom?"

"By the King of Navarre."

"Ah! the King of Navarre knew of it; I should not have thought
so. However, now you are here safe and sound, we will put Anjou
in flames, and Bearn and Angoumois will catch the light, so we
shall have a fine blaze."

"But did you not speak of a rendezvous?"

"It is true; the interest of the conversation was making me forget.
Adieu, monseigneur."

"Do you take your horse?"

"If it will be useful to you, monseigneur, you may keep it, I
have another."

"Well! I accept; we will settle that later."

The duke gave Bussy his hand, and they separated.




CHAPTER LVII.

THE IDEAS OF THE DUC D'ANJOU.

Bussy returned home, but instead of St. Luc, whom he expected,
he found only a letter fixing their meeting for the next day.
About six in the morning St. Luc started, and rode straight to
Bussy's house.

"Accept the hospitality of my poor hut, St. Luc," said Bussy,
"I am encamped here."

"Yes, like a conqueror on the field of battle."

"What do you mean?"

"I mean, dear Bussy, that my wife has no secrets from me, and
has told me all. Receive my compliments, but, since you have
sent for me, permit me to give you a piece of advice."

"Well."

"Get rid as soon as possible of that abominable Monsoreau; no
one at the court knows of your love for his wife, so when you
marry the widow, no one will say you killed him on purpose."

"There is but one obstacle to this project, which presented itself
to my mind, as to yours."

"What is it?"

"That I have sworn to Diana to respect the life of her husband,
as long as he does not attack me."

"You were very wrong."

"Why so?"

"Because if you do not take the initiative, he will discover you,
and will kill you."

"I cannot break my oath to Diana. Besides, he who is now a monster
in all eyes, would be thought an angel in his tomb."

"Therefore I do not advise you to kill him yourself."

"Oh, St. Luc, no assassins."

"Who spoke of assassins?"

"Of what then?"

"Nothing; an idea passed through my mind; I will tell you what
it was at another time. I do not love this Monsoreau much more
than you, although I have not the same reason to detest him,
so let us speak of the wife instead of the husband."

Bussy smiled. "You are a capital companion, St Luc," said he,
"and you may count on my friendship. Now my friendship consists
of three things, my purse, my sword, and my life. Now, what about
Diana?"

"I wished to ask if you were not coming to Meridor."

"My dear friend, I thank you, but you know my scruples."

"I know all. At Meridor you fear to meet Monsoreau, although
he is eighty leagues off; fear to have to shake his hand, and
it is hard to shake the hand of the man you wish to strangle;
you fear to see him embrace Diana, and it is hard to see that
of the woman you love."

"Ah! how well you understand!" cried Bussy, with rage; "but,
my dear friend, did you not hear last night the noise of bells
and guns?"

"Yes; and we wondered what it meant."

"It meant that the Duc d'Anjou arrived last night."

St. Luc jumped up. "The duke here! We heard he was imprisoned
at the Louvre."

"That is just why he is now at Angers. He managed to escape through
a window, and came here."

"Well?"

"Well, here is an excellent opportunity to revenge yourself for
the king's persecutions. The prince has already a party, he will
soon have troops, and we shall have something like a little civil
war."

"Oh! oh!"

"And I reckoned on you to help us."

"Against the king?" said St. Luc, with sudden coldness.

"Not precisely against the king, but against those who fight against
us."

"My dear Bussy, I came here for country air, not to fight against
his majesty."

"But let me present you to monseigneur."

"Useless, my dear Bussy, I do not like Angers."

"My dear St. Luc, you will do me a great service by consenting;
the duke asked me what I came here for, and, not being able to
tell because of his own passion for Diana, I said that I had
come to draw to his cause all the gentlemen in the Canton; I even
told him I had a rendezvous with one this morning."

"Well! tell him you have seen the gentleman, and that he asks
six months to consider. Listen, I will always help you to defend
Diana, you shall help me to defend my wife. We will make a treaty
for love, but not for politics."

"I see, I must yield to you, St. Luc, for you have the advantage
over me. I want you, and you do not want me."

"On the contrary, it is I who claim your protection."

"How so?"

"Suppose the rebels besiege and sack Meridor."

The two friends laughed; then, as the duke had sent to inquire
for Bussy, they separated with renewed promises of friendship,
and charmed with each other.

Bussy went to the ducal palace, where already all the nobility of
the provinces were arriving. He hastened to arrange an official
reception, a repast and speeches, and having thus cut out some
hours' occupation for the prince, mounted his other horse, and
galloped to Meridor. The duke made some good speeches, and produced
a great effect, giving himself out for a prince persecuted by
the king on account of the love of the Parisians for him. When
Bussy returned, it was four in the afternoon; he dismounted,
and presented himself to the duke all covered with dust.

"Ah! my brave Bussy, you have been at work?"

"You see, monseigneur."

"You are very hot."

"I have ridden fast."

"Take care not to get ill again."

"There is no danger."

"Whence do you come?"

"From the environs. Is your highness content? have you had a numerous
assemblage?"

"Yes, I am pretty well satisfied, but I missed some one."

"Who?"

"Your protege, the Baron de Meridor."

Bussy changed color.

"And yet we must not neglect him," continued the duke, "he is
influential here."

"You think so?"

"I am sure of it. He was the correspondent of the League at Angers,
chosen by M. de Guise, and the Guises choose their men well. He
must come, Bussy."

"But if he does not come?"

"I will go to him."

"To Meridor?"

"Why not?"

"Oh, why not, certainly," cried Bussy, with flashing eyes, "a
prince may do anything."

"Then you think he is still angry with me?"

"How should I know?"

"You have not seen him?"

"No."

"As one of the great men of the province, I thought----"

"I was not sufficiently fortunate in the former promises I made
him to be in a hurry to present myself to him."

"Has he not attained his object?"

"How so?"

"He wanted his daughter to marry the count, and she has done so."

Bussy turned his back on the duke, who, at the same moment, moved
towards another gentleman who entered the room. Bussy began to
reflect on what the duke's projects were with regard to the
baron--whether they were purely political, or whether he was still
seeking to approach Diana; but he imagined that, embroiled with
his brother, banished from the Louvre, and the chief of provincial
insurrection, he had sufficiently grave interests at stake to
outweigh his love fancies. He passed the night banqueting with
the duke and the Angevin gentlemen, then in dancing with the
Angevin ladies. It is needless to say that he was the admiration
of the latter, and the hatred of the husbands, several of whom
looked at him in a way which did not please him, so that, curling
his mustachios, he invited three or four of them to take a walk
with him by moonlight; but his reputation had preceded him, and
they all declined.

At the door Bussy found a laughing face waiting for him, which
he believed to be eighty leagues off.

"Ah," cried he joyfully, "it is you, Remy."

"Yes monsieur."

"I was going to write to you to join me."

"Really!"

"On my word."

"That is capital; I was afraid you would scold me."

"For what?"

"For coming without leave. But I heard that Monsieur le Duc d'Anjou
had escaped, and had fled here. I knew you were here also, and I
thought there might be civil war, and many holes made in skins,
so I came."

"You did well, Remy; I wanted you."

"How is Gertrude, monsieur?"

"I will ask Diana the first time I see her."

"And, in return, every time I see her I will ask for news of Madame
de Monsoreau."

"You are charming."

Meanwhile they had reached Bussy's lodging.

"Here is my palace; you must lodge as you can."

"It will not be difficult; I could sleep standing, I am so tired."

Bussy rose early the next morning, and went to the ducal palace,
leaving word for Remy to follow him. The duke had prepared a
list of important things to be done: firstly, a walk round the
walls to examine the fortifications; secondly, a review of the
inhabitants and their arms; thirdly, a visit to the arsenal;
fourthly, correspondence.

"Ah!" cried the duke, "you already!"

"Ma foi! yes, monseigneur; I could not sleep, your highness's
interests were so much on my mind. What shall we do this morning?
Shall we hunt?"

"How!" said the duke, "you pretend to have been thinking all
night of my interests, and the result of so much meditation is
to propose to me a hunt!"

"True," said Bussy; "besides, we have no hounds."

"And no chief huntsman."

"Ah, ma foi! the chase would be more agreeable without him."

"Ah, I am not like you--I want him; he would have been very useful
to us here."

"How so?"

"He has property here."

"He!"

"He or his wife."

Bussy bit his lips.

"Meridor is only three leagues off, you know that," continued
the duke, "you, who brought the old baron to me."

"Dame! I brought him because he hung on to my cloak. However,
my protection did not do him much good."

"Listen," said the duke, "I have an idea."

"Diable!" said Bussy, who was always suspicious of the duke's
ideas.

"Yes; it is that, if Monsoreau had the advantage over you at first,
you shall have it now."

"What do you mean?"

"It is very simple; you know me, Bussy?"

"I have that misfortune."

"Think you I am the man to submit to an affront with impunity?"

"Explain yourself, monseigneur."

"Well, he stole the young girl I loved to make her his wife; now
I will steal his wife!"

Bussy tried to smile, but made a grimace instead.

"Steal his wife!" stammered he.

"Nothing more easy, she is here, and you told me she hated her
husband; therefore, without too much vanity, I may flatter myself
she will give me the preference, if I promise her----"

"What, monseigneur?"

"To get rid of her husband for her."

"You will do that?"

"You shall see. Meanwhile I will pay a visit to Meridor."

"You will dare?"

"Why not?"

"You will present yourself before the old baron, whom you abandoned
after promising me----"

"I have an excellent excuse to give him."

"Where the devil will you find it?"

"Oh! I will say to him, I did not break this marriage, because
Monsoreau, who knew that you were one of the principal agents
to the League, threatened to denounce you to the king."

"Has your highness invented that?"

"Not entirely."

"Then I understand."

"Yes, I shall make him believe that by marrying his daughter I
saved his life."

"It is superb."

"Well! order the horses, and we will go to Meridor."

"Immediately, monseigneur." Bussy then went to the door, but
turned back and said, "How many horses will your highness have?"

"Oh, four or five, what you like."

"If you leave it to me, I shall take a hundred."

"What for?" cried the prince, surprised.

"To have at least twenty-five I can rely on in case of attack."

"Attack!"

"Yes, I have heard that there are thick woods in that neighborhood,
and it would not surprise me if we fell into some ambush."

"Ah, do you think so?"

"Monseigneur knows that true courage does not exclude prudence;
I will order one hundred and fifty."

And he moved towards the door.

"A moment," said the prince. "Do you think I am in safety at Angers?"

"Why, the town is not very strong, but well defended----"

"Yes, but it may be badly defended; however brave you are, you
can be but in one place at a time."

"True."

"Then if I am not in safety here--and I am not if Bussy doubts----"

"I did not say I doubted."

"If I am not safe, I had better make myself so. I will go to the
castle and entrench myself."

"You are right, monseigneur."

"And then another idea."

"The morning is fruitful."

"I will make the Meridors come here."

"Monseigneur, you are grand to-day. Now let us visit the castle."

Bussy went out while the prince was getting ready, and found
Remy waiting. He wrote hastily a little note, picked a bunch of
roses from the conservatory, rolled the note round the stems,
went to the stable, brought out his horse, and, putting Remy
on it, and giving him the bouquet, led him out of the city.

"Now," said he, "let Roland go; at the end of this road you will
find the forest, in the forest a park, round the park a wall,
and at that part of the wall where Roland stops, throw over this
bouquet."

"He whom you expect does not come," said the note, "because he
who was not expected has come, and is more menacing than ever,
for he loves still. Take with the lips and the heart all that
is invisible to the eyes in this paper."

In half an hour Remy reached his destination, carried by his
horse, and threw over the bouquet; a little cry from the other
side told him it had been received. Then Remy returned, in spite
of his horse, which seemed much put out at losing its accustomed
repast on the acorns. Remy joined Bussy as he was exploring a
cave with the prince.

"Well," said he to his messenger, "what did you hear or see?"

"A wall, a cry, seven leagues," replied Remy laconically.




CHAPTER LVIII.

A FLIGHT OF ANGEVINS.

Bussy contrived to occupy the duke so well with his preparations
for war during two days, that he found no time to think of Meridor,
and from time to time, under pretext of examining the outer
fortifications, jumped on Roland, and arrived at a certain wall,
which he got over all the more quickly because each time he made
some stone fall, and was, in fact, gradually making a breach.

Towards the end of the third day, as an enormous convoy of provisions
was entering the city, the produce of a tax levied by the duke
on his good Angevins, as M. d'Anjou, to make himself popular,
was tasting the black bread and salt fish of the soldiers, they
heard a great noise at one of the gates of the city, where a man,
mounted on a white horse, had presented himself. Now Bussy had
had himself named Captain-General of Anjou, and had established
the most severe discipline in Angers; no one could go out of or
enter the town without a password; all which had no other aim
than to prevent the duke from sending a messenger to Meridor
without his knowledge.

The man on the white horse had arrived at a furious gallop, and
had attempted to enter, but had been stopped.

"I am Antragues," said he, "and desire to speak to the Duc d'Anjou."

"We do not know Antragues," they replied, "but as for seeing
the duke, you shall be satisfied, for we shall arrest you, and
conduct you to him."

"You are a nice fellow, truly, to talk of arresting Charles Balzac
d'Antragues, Baron de Cuneo, and Comte de Graville."

"We will do so, however," replied the bourgeois, who had twenty
men behind him.

"Wait a little, my good friends. You do not know the Parisians.
Well, I will show you a specimen of what they can do."

"Let us arrest him!" cried the furious militia.

"Softly, my little lambs of Anjou; it is I who will have that
pleasure."

"What does he say?" asked the bourgeois.

"He says that his horse has only gone ten leagues, and will ride
over you all." And drawing his sword and swinging it furiously
round, he cut off in his passage the blades of the nearest halberts,
and in less than ten minutes fifteen or twenty of them were changed
into broom-handles.

"Ah! this is very amusing!" cried he, laughing, and as he spoke
stunning one of the bourgeois with a blow on the head with the
flat of his sword. However, as more and more bourgeois crowded
to the attack, and Antragues began to feel tired, he said, "Well,
you are as brave as lions; I will bear witness to it; but, you
see, you have nothing left but the handles of your halberts,
and you do not know how to load your muskets. I had resolved
to enter the city, but I did not know it was guarded by an army
of Casars. I renounce my victory over you. Good evening, I am
going away; only tell the prince that I came here expressly to
see him."

However, the captain had managed to communicate the fire to the
match of his musket, but just as he was raising it to his shoulder,
Antragues gave him such a furious blow upon the fingers that he
dropped it.

"Kill him! kill him!" cried several voices, "do not let him escape!"

"Ah!" said Antragues, "just now you would not let me come in,
now you will not let me go out. Take care, that will change my
tactics, and instead of the flat of my sword, I will use the
point--instead of cutting the halberts, I will cut the wrists.
Now, will you let me go?"

"No, no, he is tired, kill him!"

"Well, then, take care of your hands!"

Scarcely had he spoken when another cavalier appeared, riding
furiously also, and who cried out as he approached:

"Antragues, what are you doing among all these bourgeois?"

"Livarot!" cried Antragues. "Mon Dieu, you are welcome; Montjoie
and St. Denis, to the rescue!"

"I heard four hours ago that you were before me, and I have been
trying to catch you. But what is the matter; do they want to
massacre you?"

"Yes, they will neither let me in nor out."

"Gentlemen!" said Livarot, "will you please to step either to
the right or left, and let us pass."

"They insult us! kill them!" cried the people.

"Oh! this is Angers' manners!" said Livarot, drawing his sword.

"Yes, you see; unluckily, there are so many of them."

"If there were but three of us!"

"And here is Ribeirac coming."

"Do you hear him?"

"I see him. Here, Ribeirac!"

"Are you fighting?" cried Ribeirac.

"Good morning, Livarot; good morning, Antragues."

"Let us charge them," said Antragues.

The bourgeois looked in stupefaction at this reinforcement that
was about to join the attacking party.

"They are a regiment," said the captain of the militia.

"This is only the advanced guard," cried another.

"We are fathers of families, and our lives belong to our children,"
said others, and they all tried to fly, fighting with each other
to get out of the way.

At this stage of the affair Bussy and the prince arrived, followed
by twenty cavaliers, to ascertain the cause of the tumult. They
were told that it was three incarnate devils from Paris who were
making all the disturbance.

"Three men, Bussy; see who they are."

Bussy raised himself in his stirrups, and his quick eye soon
recognized Livarot.

"Mort de ma vie, monseigneur," cried he, "they are our friends
from Paris who are besieging us."

"No!" cried Livarot, "on the contrary, it is these people who
are killing us."

"Down with your arms, knaves," cried the duke, "these are friends."

"Friends!" cried the bourgeois, "then they should have had the
password; for we have been treating them like Pagans and they
us like Turks."

Livarot, Antragues, and Ribeirac advanced in triumph to kiss the
duke's hand.

"Monseigneur," said Bussy, "how many militia do you think there
were here?"

"At least one hundred and fifty."

"You have not very famous soldiers, since three men beat them."

"True, but I shall have the three men who did beat them."




CHAPTER LIX.

ROLAND.

Thanks to the reinforcement which had arrived, M. le Duc d'Anjou
could go where he pleased; he explored the ramparts of the
surrounding country and castles. The Angevin gentlemen found
liberty and amusement at the court of the duke, and the three
friends were soon intimate with many of these nobles, especially
those who had pretty wives. The general joy was at its height
when twenty-two riding horses, thirty carriage horses, and forty
mules, together with litters, carriages and wagons, arrived at
Angers, all the property of the duke. We must allow that the
saddles were not paid for, and that the coffers were empty, but
still it made a magnificent effect. The duke's reputation for
wealth was henceforward solidly established, and all the province
remained convinced that he was rich enough to war against all
Europe if need were, therefore they did not grudge the new tax
which the prince imposed upon them. People never mind giving or
lending to rich people, only to poor ones; therefore the worthy
prince lived like a patriarch on all the fat of the land. Numerous
cavaliers arrived to offer to him their adhesions, or their offers
of service. One afternoon, however, about four o'clock, M. de
Monsoreau arrived on horseback at the gates of Angers. He had
ridden eighteen leagues that day; therefore his spurs were red,
and his horse covered with foam, and half dead. They no longer
made difficulties about letting strangers enter, therefore M.
de Monsoreau went straight through the city to the palace, and
asked for the duke.

"He is out reconnoitering," replied the sentinel.

"Where?"

"I do not know."

"Diable! What I have to say to him is very pressing."

"First put your horse in the stable, or he will fall."

"The advice is good; where are the stables?"

As he spoke a man approached and asked for his name. M. de Monsoreau
gave it. The major-domo (for it was he) bowed respectfully, for
the chief huntsman's name was well known in Anjou.

"Monsieur," said he, "please to enter and take some repose.
Monseigneur has not been out more than ten minutes, and will not
be back till eight o'clock."

"Eight o'clock! I cannot wait so long; I am the bearer of news
which cannot be too soon known to his highness. Can I not have
a horse and a guide?"

"There are plenty of horses, but a guide is a different thing,
for his highness did not say where he was going."

"Well, I will take a fresh horse, and try to discover him."

"Probably you will hear where he has passed, monsieur."

"Do they ride fast?"

"Oh no."

"Well, get me a horse then."

"Will monsieur come into the stables and choose one? they all
belong to the duke." Monsoreau entered. Ten or twelve fine horses,
quite fresh, were feeding from the manger, which was filled with
grain.

Monsoreau looked over them, and then said, "I will take this bay."

"Roland?"

"Is that his name?"

"Yes, and it is his highness's favorite horse. M. de Bussy gave
him to the duke, and it is quite a chance that it is here to-day."

Ronald was soon saddled, and Monsoreau rode out of the stable.

"In which direction did they start?" asked he.

The man pointed it out.

"Ma foi!" said Monsoreau, "the horse seems to know the way."

Indeed, the animal set off without being urged, and went deliberately
out of the city, took a short cut to the gate, and then began to
accelerate his pace: Monsoreau let him go. He went along the
boulevard, then turned into a shady lane, which cut across the
country, passing gradually from a trot to a gallop.

"Oh!" thought Monsoreau, as they entered the woods, "one would
say we were going to Meridor. Can his highness be there?" and
his face grew black at the thought.

"Oh!" murmured he, "I who was going to see the prince, and putting
off till to-morrow to see my wife; shall I see them both at the
same time?"

The horse went on, turning always to the right.

"We cannot be far from the park," said he.

At that moment his horse neighed, and another answered him. In
a minute Monsoreau saw a wall, and a horse tied to a neighboring
tree.

"There is some one," thought he, turning pale.




CHAPTER LX.

WHAT M. DE MONSOREAU CAME TO ANNOUNCE.

As M. de Monsoreau approached, he remarked the dilapidation of
the wall; it was almost in steps, and the brambles had been torn
away, and were lying about. He looked at the horse standing there.
The animal had a saddle-cloth embroidered in silver, and in one
corner an F. and an A. There was no doubt, then, that it came
from the prince's stables; the letters stood for Francois d'Anjou.
The count's suspicions at this sight became real alarm; the duke
had come here, and had come often, for, besides the horse waiting
there, there was a second that knew the way. He tied up his horse
near to the other, and began to scale the wall. It was an easy
task; there were places for both feet and hands, and the branches
of an oak-tree, which hung over, had been carefully cut away.
Once up, he saw at the foot of a tree a blue mantilla and a black
cloak, and not far off a man and woman, walking hand in hand,
with their backs turned to the wall, and nearly hidden by the
trees. Unluckily, with M. de Monsoreau's weight a stone fell
from the wall on the crackling branches with a great noise.

At this noise the lovers must have turned and seen him, for the
cry of a woman was heard, and a rustling of the branches as they
ran away like startled deer. At this cry, Monsoreau felt cold
drops on his forehead, for he recognized Diana's voice. Full of
fury, he jumped over the wall, and with his drawn sword in his
hand, tried to follow the fugitives, but they had disappeared,
and, there was not a trace or a sound to guide him. He stopped,
and considered that he was too much under the influence of passion
to act with prudence against so powerful a rival. Then a sublime
idea occurred to him; it was to climb back again over the wall,
and carry off with his own the horse he had seen there. He retraced
his steps to the wall and climbed up again; but on the other
side no horse was to be seen; his idea was so good, that before
it came to him it had come to his adversary. He uttered a howl
of rage, clenching his fists, but started off at once on foot.
In two hours and a half, he arrived at the gates of the city,
dying with hunger and fatigue, but determined to interrogate
every sentinel, and find out by what gate a man had entered with
two horses. The first sentinel he applied to said that, about
two hours before, a horse without a rider had passed through
the gate, and had taken the road to the palace; he feared some
accident must have happened to his rider. Monsoreau ground his
teeth with passion, and went on to the castle. There he found great
life and gaiety, windows lighted up, and animation everywhere. He
went first to the stable, and found his horse in the stall he
had taken him from; then, without changing his dress, he went
to the dining-room. The prince and all his gentlemen were sitting
round a table magnificently served and lighted. The duke, who
had been told of his arrival, received him without surprise,
and told him to sit down and sup with him.

"Monseigneur," replied he, "I am hungry, tired, and thirsty; but
I will neither eat, drink, nor sit down till I have delivered
my important message."

"You come from Paris?"

"Yes, in great haste."

"Well, speak."

Monsoreau advanced, with a smile on his lips and hatred In his
heart, and said, "Monseigneur, your mother is advancing hastily
to visit you."

The duke looked delighted. "It is well," said he; "M. de Monsoreau,
I find you to-day, as ever, a faithful servant; let us continue
our supper, gentlemen."

Monsoreau sat down with them, but gloomy and preoccupied. He
still seemed to see the two figures among the trees, and to hear
the cry of Diana.

"You are overcome with weariness," said the prince to him, "really,
you had better go to bed."

"Yes," said Livarot, "or he will go to sleep in his chair."

"Pardon, monseigneur, I am tired out."

"Get tipsy," said Antragues; "there is nothing so good when you
are tired. To your health, count!"

"You must give us some good hunts," said Ribeirac, "you know the
country."

"You have horses and woods here," said Antragues.

"And a wife," added Livarot.

"We will hunt a boar, count," said the prince.

"Oh, yes, to-morrow!" cried the gentlemen.

"What do you say, Monsoreau?"

"I am always at your highness's orders, but I am too much fatigued
to conduct a chase to-morrow; besides which, I must examine the
woods."

"And we must leave him time to see his wife," cried the duke.

"Granted," cried the young men; "we give him twenty-four hours
to do all he has to do."

"Yes, gentlemen, I promise to employ them well."

"Now go to bed," said the duke, and M. de Monsoreau bowed, and
went out, very happy to escape.




CHAPTER LXI.

HOW THE KING LEARNED THE FLIGHT OF HIS BELOVED BROTHER, AND WHAT
FOLLOWED.

When Monsoreau had retired, the repast continued, and was more
gay and joyous than ever.

"Now, Livarot," said the duke, "finish the recital of your flight
from Paris, which Monsoreau interrupted."

Livarot began again, but as our title of historian gives us the
privilege of knowing better than Livarot himself what had passed,
we will substitute our recital for that of the young man.

Towards the middle of the night Henri III. was awoke by an
unaccustomed noise in the palace. It was oaths, blows on the
wall, rapid steps in the galleries, and, amidst all, these words
continually sounding, "What will the king say?"

Henri sat up and called Chicot, who was asleep on the couch.

Chicot opened one eye.

"Ah, you were wrong to call me, Henri," said he; "I was dreaming
that you had a son."

"But listen."

"To what? You say enough follies to me by day, without breaking
in on my nights."

"But do you not hear?"

"Oh, oh! I do hear cries."

"Do you hear, 'What will the king say?'"

"It is one of two things--either your dog Narcissus is ill, or
the Huguenots are taking their revenge for St. Bartholomew."

"Help me to dress."

"If you will first help me to get up."

"What a misfortune!" sounded from the antechamber.

"Shall we arm ourselves?" said the king.

"We had better go first and see what is the matter."

And almost immediately they went out by the secret door into the
gallery. "I begin to guess," said Chicot; "your unlucky prisoner
has hanged himself."

"Oh, no; it cannot be that."

"So much the worse."

"Come on;" and they entered the duke's chamber.

The window was open, and the ladder still hung from it. Henri
grew as pale as death.

"Oh, my son, you are not so blase as I thought!" said Chicot.

"Escaped!" cried Henri, in such a thundering voice that all the
gentlemen who were crowded round the window turned in terror.
Schomberg tore his hair, Quelus and Maugiron struck themselves
like madmen; as for D'Epernon, he had vanished. This sight calmed
the king.

"Gently, my son," said he, laying hold of Maugiron.

"No! mordieu!" cried he, "I will kill myself!" and he knocked
his head against the wall.

"Hola! help me to hold him."

"It would be an easier death to pass your sword through your body!"
said Chicot.

"Quelus, my child," said the king, "you will be as blue as Schomberg
when he came out of the indigo."

Quelus stopped, but Schomberg still continued to tear at his hair.

"Schomberg, Schomberg, a little reason, I beg."

"It is enough to drive one mad!"

"Indeed, it is a dreadful misfortune; there will be a civil war
in my kingdom. Who did it--who furnished the ladder? Mordieu!
I will hang all the city! Who was it? Ten thousand crowns to
whoever will tell me his name, and one hundred thousand to whoever
will bring him to me, dead or alive!"

"It must have been some Angevin," said Maugiron.

"Oh yes! we will kill all the Angevins!" cried Quelus. However,
the king suddenly disappeared; he had thought of his mother,
and, without saying a word, went to her. When he entered, she
was half lying in a great armchair: She heard the news without
answering.

"You say nothing, mother. Does not this flight seem to you criminal,
and worthy of punishment?"

"My dear son, liberty is worth as much as a crown; and remember,
I advised you to fly in order to gain a crown."

"My mother, he braves me--he outrages me!"

"No; he only saves himself."

"Ah! this is how you take my part."

"What do you mean, my son?"

"I mean that with age the feelings grow calm--that you do not
love me as much as you used to do."

"You are wrong, my son," said Catherine coldly; "you are my beloved
son, but he of whom you complain is also my son."

"Well, then, madame, I will go to find other counselors capable
of feeling for me and of aiding me."

"Go, my son; and may God guide your counselors, for they will
have need of it to aid you in this strait."

"Adieu, then, madame!"

"Adieu, Henri! I do not pretend to counsel you--you do not need
me, I know--but beg your counselors to reflect well before they
advise, and still more before they execute."

"Yes, madame, for the position is difficult."

"Very grave," replied she, raising her eyes to heaven.

"Have you any idea who it was that carried him off?" Catherine
did not reply.

"I think it was the Angevins," continued the king.

Catherine smiled scornfully.

"The Angevins!"

"You do not think so?"

"Do you, really?"

"Tell me what you think, madame."

"Why should I?"

"To enlighten me."

"Enlighten you! I am but a doting old woman, whose only influence
lies in her prayers and repentance."

"No, mother; speak, you are the cleverest of us all."

"Useless; I have only ideas of the last century; at my age it
is impossible I should give good counsel."

"Well, then, mother, refuse me your counsel, deprive me of your
aid. In an hour I will hang all the Angevins in Paris."

"Hang all the Angevins!" cried Catherine, in amazement.

"Yes, hang, slay, massacre, burn; already, perhaps, my friends
are out to begin the work."

"They will ruin themselves, and you with them."

"How so?"

"Blind! Will kings eternally have eyes, and not see?"

"Kings must avenge their injuries, it is but justice, and in this
case all my subjects will rise to defend me."

"You are mad."

"Why so?"

"You will make oceans of blood flow. The standard of revolt will
soon be raised; and you will arm against you a host who never
would rise for Francois."

"But if I do not revenge myself they will think I am afraid."

"Did any one ever think I was afraid? Besides, it was not the
Angevins."

"Who was it then? it must have been my brother's friends."

"Your brother has no friends."

"But who was it then?"

"Your enemy."

"What enemy?"

"O! my son, you know you have never had but one; yours, mine,
your brother Charles's; always the same."

"Henri of Navarre, you mean?"

"Yes, Henri of Navarre."

"He is not at Paris."

"Do you know who is at Paris, and who is not? No, you are all
deaf and blind."

"Can it have been he?"

"My son, at every disappointment you meet with, at every misfortune
that happens to you of which the author is unknown, do not seek
or conjecture; it is useless. Cry out, it is Henri of Navarre,
and you will be sure to be right. Strike on the side where he
is, and you will be sure to strike right. Oh! that man, that
man; he is the sword suspended over the head of the Valois."

"Then you think I should countermand my orders about the Angevins?"

"At once, without losing an instant. Hasten; perhaps you are already
too late."

Henry flew out of the Louvre to find his friends, but found only
Chicot drawing figures in the sand with a stone.




CHAPTER LXII.

HOW, AS CHICOT AND THE QUEEN MOTHER WERE AGREED, THE KING BEGAN
TO AGREE WITH THEM.

"Is this how you defend your king?" cried Henri.

"Yes, it is my manner, and I think it is a good one."

"Good, indeed!"

"I maintain it, and I will prove it."

"I am curious to hear this proof."

"It is easy; but first, we have committed a great folly."

"How so?" cried Henri, struck by the agreement between Chicot
and his mother.

"Yes," replied Chicot, "your friends are crying through the city,
'Death to the Angevins!' and now that I reflect, it was never
proved that they had anything to do with the affair. And your
friends, crying thus through the city, will raise that nice little
civil war of which MM. de Guise have so much need, and which
they did not succeed in raising for themselves. Besides which,
your friends may get killed, which would not displease me, I
confess, but which would afflict you, or else they will chase
all the Angevins from the city, which will please M. d'Anjou
enormously."

"Do you think things are so bad?"

"Yes, it not worse."

"But all this does not explain what you do here, sitting on a
stone."

"I am tracing a plan of all the provinces that your brother will
raise against you, and the number of men each will furnish to
the revolt."

"Chicot, Chicot, you are a bird of bad augury."

"The owl sings at night, my son, it is his hour. Now it is dark,
Henri, so dark that one might take the day for the night, and
I sing what you ought to hear. Look!"

"At what?"

"My geographical plan. Here is Anjou, something like a tartlet,
you see; there your brother will take refuge. Anjou, well managed,
as Monsoreau and Bussy will manage it, will alone furnish to
your brother ten thousand combatants."

"Do you think so?"

"That is the minimum; let us pass to Guyenne; here it is, this
figure like a calf walking on one leg. Of course, you will not
be astonished to find discontent in Guyenne; it is an old focus
for revolt, and will be enchanted to rise. They can furnish 8,000
soldiers; that is not much, but they are well trained. Then we
have Bearn and Navarre; you see these two compartments, which look
like an ape on the back of an elephant--they may furnish about
16,000. Let us count now--10,000 for Anjou, 8,000 for Guyenne,
16,000 for Bearn and Navarre; making a total of 34,000."

"You think, then, that the King of Navarre will join my brother?"

"I should think so."

"Do you believe that he had anything to do with my brother's escape?"

Chicot looked at him. "That is not your own idea, Henri."

"Why not?"

"It is too clever, my son."

"Never mind whose idea it was; answer my question."

"Well! I heard a 'Ventre St. Gris' in the Rue de la Ferronnerie."

"You heard a 'Ventre St. Gris!' But it might not have been he."

"I saw him."

"You saw Henri of Navarre in Paris?"

"Yes."

"You saw my mortal enemy here, and did not tell me?"

"I am not a spy. Then there are the Guises; 20,000 or 25,000
men under the orders of the Duc de Guise will make up altogether
a nice little army."

"But Henri of Navarre and the Duc de Guise are enemies."

"Which will not prevent them from uniting against you; they will
be free to fight with each other when they have conquered you."

"You are right, Chicot, and my mother is right. I will call the
Swiss."

"Oh, yes! Quelus has got them."

"My guards, then."

"Schomberg has them."

"My household at least."

"They have gone with Maugiron."

"Without my orders?"

"And when do you ever give orders, except, perhaps, to flagellate
either your own skin, or that of others?--But about government.--Bah!
allow me to observe that you have been a long time finding out
that you rank seventh or eighth in this kingdom."

"Here they are!" cried the king, as three cavaliers approached,
followed by a crowd of men on foot and on horseback.

"Schomberg! Quelus! come here," cried the king. They approached.

"I have been seeking you, and waiting for you impatiently. What
have you done? Do not go away again without my permission."

"There is no more need," said Maugiron, who now approached, "since
all is finished."

"All is finished?"

"Heaven be praised," said D'Epernon, appearing all at once, no
one knew from whence.

"Then you have killed them?" cried the king; "well, at least the
dead do not return."

"Oh! we had not that trouble; the cowards ran away, we had scarcely
time to cross our swords with them."

Henri grew pale. "With whom?" said he.

"With Antragues?"

"On the contrary, he killed a lackey of Quelus's."

"Oh!" murmured the king, "here is a civil war lighted up."

Quelus started. "It is true," said he.

"Ah" said Chicot. "You begin to perceive it, do you?"

"But, M. Chicot, you cried with us, 'Death to the Angevins!'"

"Oh! that is a different thing; I am a fool, and you are clever
men."

"Come, peace, gentlemen; we shall have enough of war soon."

"What are your majesty's orders?"

"That you employ the same ardor in calming the people as you have
done in exciting them, and that you bring back all the Swiss,
my guards, and my household, and have the doors of the Louvre
closed, so that perhaps tomorrow the bourgeois may take the whole
thing for a sortie of drunken people."

The young men went off, and Henri returned to his mother.

"Well," said she, "what has passed?"

"All you foresaw, mother."

"They have escaped?"

"Alas! yes."

"What else?"

"Is not that enough?"

"The city?"

"Is in tumult; but that is not what disquiets me."

"No, it is the provinces."

"Which will revolt."

"What shall you do?"

"I see but one thing."

"What is that?"

"To withdraw the army from La Charite, and march on Anjou."

"And M. de Guise?"

"Oh, I will arrest him if necessary."

"And you think violent measures will succeed?"

"What can I do, then?"

"Your plan will not do."

"Well, what is your idea?"

"Send an ambassador."

"To whom?"

"To your brother."

"An ambassador to that traitor! You humiliate me, mother."

"This is not a moment to be proud."

"An ambassador will ask for peace?"

"Who will buy it if necessary."

"With what? mon Dieu!"

"If it were only to secure quietly, afterwards, those who have
gone to make war on you."

"I would give much for that."

"Well, then, the end is worth the means."

"I believe you are right, mother; but whom shall I send?"

"Seek among your friends."

"My mother, I do not know a single man to whom I could confide
such a mission."

"Confide it to a woman, then."

"My mother, would you consent?"

"My son, I am very old, and very weak, and death will perhaps
await me on my return; but I will make this journey so rapidly
that your brother and his friends will not have had time to learn
their own power."

"Oh, my good mother!" cried Henri, kissing her hands, "you are
my support, my benefactress!"

"That means that I am still Queen of France," murmured she.




CHAPTER LXIII.

IN WHICH IT IS PROVED THAT GRATITUDE WAS ONE OF ST. LUC'S VIRTUES.

The next morning, M. de Monsoreau rose early, and descended into
the courtyard of the palace. He entered the stable, where Roland
was in his place.

"Are the horses of monseigneur taught to return to their stable
alone?" asked he of the man who stood there.

"No, M. le Comte."

"But Roland did so yesterday."

"Oh, he is remarkably intelligent."

"Has he ever done it before?"

"No, monsieur; he is generally ridden by the Duc d'Anjou, who
is a good rider, and never gets thrown."

"I was not thrown," replied the count, "for I also am a good
rider; no, I tied him to a tree while I entered a house, and
at my return he had disappeared. I thought he had been stolen,
or that some passer-by had played a bad joke by carrying him
away; that was why I asked how he returned to the stable."

"He returned alone, as monsieur said just now."

"It is strange. Monseigneur often rides this horse, you say?"

"Nearly every day."

"His highness returned late last night?"

"About an hour before you."

"And what horse did he ride? was it a bay with a white star on
his forehead?"

"No, monsieur, he rode Isolin, which you see here."

"And in the prince's escort is there any one who rides such a
horse as I describe?"

"I know of no one."

"Well," said Monsoreau, impatiently, "saddle me Roland."

"Roland?"

"Yes, are there any orders against it?"

"No; on the contrary, I was told to let you have any horse you
pleased."

When Roland was saddled, Monsoreau said to the man, "What are
your wages?"

"Twenty crowns, monsieur."

"Will you earn ten times that sum at once?"

"I ask no better. But how?"

"Find out who rode yesterday the horse I described."

"Ah, monsieur, what you ask is very difficult, there are so many
gentlemen come here."

"Yes, but two hundred crowns are worth some trouble."

"Certainly, M. le Comte, and I will do my best to discover."

"That is right, and here are ten crowns to encourage you."

"Thanks, M. le Comte."

"Well, tell the prince I have gone to reconnoiter the wood for
the chase."

As he spoke he heard steps behind him, and turned.

"Ah, M. de Bussy!" he cried.

"Why, M. le Comte, who would have thought of seeing you here!"

"And you, who they said was so ill."

"So I am; my doctor orders absolute rest, and for a week I have
not left the city. Ah! you are going to ride Roland; I sold him
to the duke, who is very fond of him."

"Yes, he is an excellent animal; I rode him yesterday."

"Which makes you wish for him again to-day?"

"Yes."

"You were speaking of a chase."

"Yes, the prince wishes for one."

"Whereabouts is it to be?"

"Near Meridor. Will you come with me?"

"No, thank you, I do not feel well."

"Oh!" cried a voice from behind, "there is M. de Bussy out without
permission."

"Ah! there is my doctor scolding. Adieu, comte."

Bussy went away, and Monsoreau jumped into the saddle.

"What is the matter?" said Remy; "you look so pale, I believe
you are really ill."

"Do you know where he is going?"

"No."

"To Meridor."

"Well, did you hope he would not?"

"Mon Dieu! what will happen, after what he saw yesterday?"

"Madame de Monsoreau will deny everything."

"But he saw her."

"She will say he did not."

"She will never have the courage."

"Oh, M. de Bussy, is it possible you do not know women better
than that!"

"Remy, I feel very ill."

"So I see. Go home, and I will prescribe for you."

"What?"

"A slice of fowl and ham, and some lobster."

"Oh, I am not hungry."

"The more reason I should order you to eat."

"Remy, I fear that that wretch will make a great scene at Meridor.
I ought to have gone with him when he asked me."

"What for?"

"To sustain Diana."

"Oh, she will sustain herself. Besides, you ought not to be out;
we agreed you were too ill."

"I could not help it, Remy, I was so unquiet."

Remy carried him off, and made him sit down to a good breakfast.

M. de Monsoreau wished to see if it were chance or habit that
had led Roland to the park wall; therefore he left the bridle on
his neck. Roland took precisely the same road as on the previous
day, and before very long M. de Monsoreau found himself in the
same spot as before. Only now the place was solitary, and no
horse was there. The count climbed the wall again, but no one
was to be seen; therefore, judging that it was useless to watch
for people on their guard, he went on to the park gates. The
baron, seeing his son-in-law coming over the drawbridge, advanced
ceremoniously to meet him. Diana, seated under a magnificent
sycamore, was reading poetry, while Gertrude was embroidering
at her side. The count, seeing them, got off his horse, and
approached them.

"Madame," said he, "will you grant me the favor of an interview?"

"Willingly, monsieur."

"What calm, or rather what perfidy!" thought the count.

"Do you do us the honor of remaining at the chat?" asked the baron.

"Yes, monsieur, until to-morrow, at least."

The baron went away to give orders, and Diana reseated herself,
while Monsoreau took Gertrude's chair, and, with a look sufficient
to intimidate most people, said:

"Madame, who was in the park with you yesterday?"

"At what time?" said Diana, in a firm voice.

"At six."

"Where?"

"Near the copse."

"It must have been some one else, it was not I."

"It was you, madame."

"What do you know about it?"

"Tell me the man's name!" cried Monsoreau, furiously.

"What man?"

"The man who was walking with you."

"I cannot tell, if it was some other woman."

"It was you, I tell you."

"You are wrong, monsieur."

"How dare you deny it? I saw you."

"You, monsieur?"

"Yes, madame, myself. And there is no other lady here."

"You are wrong again; there is Jeanne de Brissac."

"Madame de St. Luc?"

"Yes, my friend."

"And M. de St. Luc?"

"Never leaves her; theirs was a love-match; you must have seen
them."

"It was not them; it was you, with some man whom I do not know,
but whom I will know, I swear. I heard your cry."

"When you are more reasonable, monsieur, I shall be ready to hear
you; at present I will retire."

"No, madame, you shall stay."

"Monsieur, here are M. and Madame de St. Luc, I trust you will
contain yourself."

Indeed, M. and Madame de St. Luc approached. She bowed to Monsoreau,
and St. Luc gave him his hand; then, leaving his wife to Monsoreau,
took Diana, and after a walk they returned, warned by the bell for
dinner, which was early at Meridor, as the baron preserved the
old customs. The conversation was general, and turned naturally
on the Duc d'Anjou, and the movement his arrival had caused.
Diana sat far from her husband, between St. Luc and the baron.




CHAPTER LXIV.

THE PROJECT OF M. DE ST. LUC.

When the repast was over, Monsoreau took St. Luc's arm and went
out. "Do you know," said he, "that I am very happy to have found
you here, for the solitude of Meridor frightened me."

"What, with your wife? As for me, with such a companion I should
find a desert delightful."

"I do not say no, but still----"

"Still, what?"

"I am very glad to have met you here."

"Really, monsieur, you are very polite, for I cannot believe
that you could possibly fear ennui with such a companion, and
such a country."

"Bah! I pass half my life in the woods."

"The more reason for being fond of them, it seems to me. I know
I shall be very sorry to leave them; unluckily, I fear I shall
be forced to do so before long."

"Why so?"

"Oh! monsieur, when is man the arbiter of his own destiny? He
is like the leaf of the tree, which the wind blows about. You
are very fortunate."

"Fortunate; how?"

"To live amongst these splendid trees."

"Oh! I do not think I shall stay here long; I am not so fond
of nature, and I fear these woods; I think they are not safe."

"Why? on account of their loneliness, do you mean?"

"No, not that, for I suppose you see friends here."

"Not a soul."

"Ah! really. How long is it since you had any visitor?"

"Not since I have been here."

"Not one gentleman from the court at Angers?"

"Not one."

"Impossible."

"It is true."

"Then I am wrong."

"Perfectly; but why is not the park safe, are there bears here?"

"Oh, no."

"Wolves?"

"No."

"Robbers?"

"Perhaps. Tell me, monsieur, Madame de St. Luc seemed to me very
pretty; is she not?"

"Why, yes."

"Does she often walk in the park?"

"Often; she adores the woods, like myself."

"And do you accompany her?"

"Always."

"Nearly always?"

"What the devil are you driving at?"

"Oh; mon Dieu, nothing; or, at least, a trifle."

"I listen."

"They told me----"

"Well?"

"You will not be angry?"

"I never am so."

"Besides, between husbands, these confidences are right; they
told me a man had been seen wandering in the park."

"A man."

"Yes."

"Who came for my wife?"

"Oh! I do not say that."

"You would be wrong not to tell me, my dear Monsoreau. Who saw
him? pray tell me."

"Oh! to tell you the truth, I do not think it was for Madame de
St. Luc that he came."

"For whom, then?"

"Ah! I fear it is for Diana."

"Oh! I should like that better."

"What?"

"Certainly; you know we husbands are an egotistical set. Everyone
for himself, and God for us all."

"The devil rather."

"Then you think a man entered here?"

"I think so."

"And I do more than think," said St. Luc, "for I saw him."

"You saw a man in the park?"

"Yes."

"When?"

"Yesterday."

"Alone?"

"With Madame de Monsoreau."

"Where?"

"Just here to the left." And as they had walked down to the old
copse, St. Luc pointed out the spot where Bussy always came over.

"Ah!" continued he, "here is a wall in a bad state; I must warn
the baron."

"Whom do you suspect?"

"Of what?"

"Of climbing over here to talk to my wife." St. Luc seemed to
reflect.

"Diable!" said he, "it could only have been----"

"Whom?"

"Why, yourself."

"Are you joking, M. de St. Luc?"

"Ma foi, no; when I was first married I did such things."

"Come! you are trying to put me off; but do not fear, I have courage.
Help me to seek, you will do me an immense favor."

St. Luc shook his head. "It must have been you," said he.

"Do not jest, I beg of you; the thing is serious."

"Do you think so?"

"I am sure of it."

"Oh! and how does this man come?"

"Secretly."

"Often?"

"I fear so; look at the marks in the wall."

"Well, I suspected it, but I always fancied it was you."

"But I tell you, no!"

"Oh, I believe you, my dear sir."

"Well, then----"

"It must have been some one else."

Monsoreau began to look black, but St. Luc preserved his easy
nonchalance.

"I have an idea," said he.

"Tell me."

"If it were----"

"Well!"

"But, no."

"Pray speak."

"The Duc d'Anjou."

"I thought so at first, but I have made inquiries, and it could
not have been he."

"Oh! he is very cunning."

"Yes, but it was not he."

"Wait, then."

"Well!"

"I have another idea; if it was neither you nor the duke, it must
have been I."

"You?"

"Why not?"

"You to come on horseback to the outside of the park, when you
live inside!"

"Oh, mon Dieu! I am such a capricious being."

"You, who fled away when you saw me!"

"Oh! any one would do that."

"Then you were doing wrong," cried the count, no longer able to
keep in his anger.

"I do not say so."

"You are mocking me," cried the count, growing very pale, "and
have been doing so for a quarter of an hour."

"You are wrong, monsieur," said St. Luc, drawing out his watch,
and looking steadily at him; "it has been twenty minutes."

"You insult me."

"And you insult me with your questions like a constable."

"Ah! now I see clearly."

"How wonderful, at ten o'clock in the morning. But what do you
see?"

"I see that you act in concert with the traitor, the coward, whom
I saw yesterday."

"I should think so; he is my friend."

"Then I will kill you in his place."

"Bah! in your own house, and without crying, gare. Ah! M. de
Monsoreau, how badly you have been brought up, and how living
among beasts spoils the manners."

"Do you not see that I am furious?" howled the count.

"Yes, indeed, I do see it, and it does not become you at all;
you look frightful."

The count drew his sword.

"Ah!" said St. Luc, "you try to provoke me; you see I am perfectly
calm."

"Yes, I do provoke you."

"Take the trouble to get over the wall; on the other side we shall
be on neutral ground."

"What do I care!"

"I do; I do not want to kill you in your own house."

"Very well!" said Monsoreau, climbing over.

"Take care; pray do not hurt yourself, my dear count; those stones
are loose," said St. Luc. Then he also got over.




CHAPTER LXV.

HOW M. DE ST. LUC SHOWED M. DE MONSOREAU THE THRUST THAT THE KING
HAD TAUGHT HIM.

"Are you ready?" cried Monsoreau.

"No; I have the sun in my eyes."

"Move then; I warn you I shall kill you."

"Shall you really? Well, man proposes, and God disposes. Look
at that bed of poppies and dandelions."

"Well!"

"Well, I mean to lay you there." And he laughed as he drew his
sword. Monsoreau began the combat furiously, but St. Luc parried
his thrusts skilfully.

"Pardieu! M. de Monsoreau," said he, "you use your sword very
well; you might kill any one but Bussy or me."

Monsoreau grew pale.

"As for me," continued St. Luc, "the king, who loves me, took
the trouble to give me a great many lessons, and showed me, among
other things, a thrust, which you shall see presently. I tell
you, that you may have the pleasure of knowing you are killed
by the king's method; it is very flattering." And then suddenly
he rushed furiously on Monsoreau, who, half wild with rage as
he was, parried five thrusts, but received the sixth full in
his chest.

"Ah!" said St. Luc, "you will fall just where I told you," as
Monsoreau sank down on the poppies. Then, wiping his sword, he
stood quietly by, watching the changes which came over the face
of the dying man.

"Ah, you have killed me!" cried Monsoreau.

"I intended to do so, but now I see you dying, devil take me if
I am not sorry for what I have done. You are horribly jealous,
it is true, but you were brave. Have you any last wish? If so,
tell it to me; and, on the faith of a gentleman, it shall be
executed. Are you thirsty? Shall I get you water?"

Monsoreau did not reply. He turned over with his face to the
earth, biting the ground, and struggling in his blood. Then he
tried to raise his head, but fell back with a groan.

"Come, he is dead; let me think no more about him. Ah! but that
is not so easy, when you have killed a man." And jumping back
over the wall, he went to the chateau. The first person he saw
was Diana talking to his wife.

"How well she will look in black," thought he. Then, approaching
them, "Pardon me," said he, "but may I say a few words to Jeanne?"

"Do so; I will go to my father,"

"What is it?" said Jeanne, when Diana was gone; "you look rather
gloomy."

"Why, yes."

"What has happened?"

"Oh, mon Dieu! an accident."

"To you?"

"Not precisely to me, but to a person who was near me."

"Who was it?"

"The person I was walking with."

"M. de Monsoreau?"

"Alas! yes; poor dear man."

"What has happened to him?"

"I believe he is dead."

"Dead!" cried Jeanne, starting back in horror.

"Just so."

"He who was here just now talking----"

"Yes, that is just the cause of his death; he talked too much."

"St. Luc, you are hiding something from me!" cried Jeanne, seizing
his hands.

"I! Nothing; not even the place where he lies."

"Where is it?"

"Down there behind the wall; just where Bussy used to tie his
horse."

"It was you who killed him."

"Parbleu! that is not very difficult to discover."

"Unlucky that you are!"

"Ah, dear friend! he provoked me, insulted me, drew the sword
first."

"It is dreadful! the poor man!"

"Good; I was sure of it; before a week is over he will be called
St. Monsoreau."

"But you cannot stay here in the house of the man you have killed."

"So I thought at once, and that is why I came to ask you to get
ready."

"He has not wounded you?"

"No, I am perfectly unhurt."

"Then, we will go."

"As quickly as possible, for you know the accident may be discovered
at any moment."

"Then Diana is a widow."

"That is just what I thought of."

"After you killed him?"

"No, before."

"Well, I will go and tell her."

"Spare her feelings."

"Do not laugh. Meanwhile you get the horses saddled. But where
shall we go?"

"To Paris."

"But the king?"

"Oh! he will have forgotten everything by this time; besides,
if there is to be war, as seems probable, he will be glad of
me. But I must have pen and ink."

"For what?"

"To write to Bussy; I cannot leave Anjou without telling him why."

"No, of course not; you will find all that you require in my room."
St. Luc went in, and wrote,--


"DEAR FRIEND,

"You will learn, by report, ere long, the accident which has
happened to M. de Monsoreau; we had together, by the old copse,
a discussion on broken-down walls and horses that go home alone.
In the heat of the argument, he fell on a bed of poppies and
dandelions so hard that he died there.

  "Your friend for life,
    "St. Luc.

"P. S. As you may think this rather improbable, I must add that
we had our swords in our hands. I set off at once for Paris to
make peace with the king, Anjou not seeming to me very safe after
what has occurred."


Ten minutes after a servant set off for Angers with this letter,
while M. and Madame de St. Luc went out by another door, leaving
Diana much grieved at their departure, and much embarrassed how
to tell the baron what had occurred. She had turned away her
eyes from St. Luc as he passed.

"That is the reward for serving your friends," said he to his
wife; "decidedly all people are ungrateful excepting me."




CHAPTER LXVI.

IN WHICH WE SEE THE QUEEN-MOTHER ENTER THE TOWN OF ANGERS, BUT
NOT TRIUMPHANTLY.

At the same time that M. de Monsoreau fell under the sword of
St. Luc, a flourish of trumpets sounded at the closed gates of
Angers. It was Catherine de Medicis, who arrived there with rather
a large suite. They sent to tell Bussy, who rose from his bed,
and went to the prince, who immediately got into his. Certainly
the airs played by the trumpets were fine, but they had not the
virtue of those which made the walls of Jericho fall, for the
gates did not open. Catherine leaned out of her litter to show
herself to the guards, hoping the sight of her would do more
than the sound of the trumpets. They saw her, and saluted her
courteously, but did not open the gates. Then she sent a gentleman
to demand admittance, but they replied that Angers being in a
state of war, the gates could not be opened without some necessary
formalities. Catherine was furious. At last Bussy appeared, with
five other gentlemen.

"Who is there?" cried he.

"It is her majesty the queen mother, who has come to visit Angers."

"Very well, go to the left, and about eighty steps off you will
find the postern."

"A postern for her majesty!" cried the gentleman. But Bussy was
no longer there to hear, he and his friends had ridden off towards
the indicated spot.

"Did your majesty hear?" asked the gentleman.

"Oh! yes, monsieur, I heard; let us go there, if that be the only
way to get in."

The cortege turned to the left, and the postern opened.

"Your majesty is welcome to Angers," said Bussy.

"Thank you, M. de Bussy," said the queen, descending from her
litter, and advancing towards the little door. Bussy stopped
her. "Take care, madame," said he, "the door is low, and you will
hurt yourself."

"Must I then stoop?" replied she; "it is the first time I ever
entered a city so."

Once through the gate she re-entered her litter to go to the palace,
Bussy and his friends escorting her.

"Where is my son?" cried she; "why do I not see M. d'Anjou?"

"Monseigneur is ill, madame, or else your majesty cannot doubt
that he would have come himself to do the honors of his city."

Catherine was sublime in hypocrisy.

"Ill--my poor child, ill!" cried she; "ah! let us hasten to him;
is he well taken care of?"

"Yes, madame, we do our best."

"Does he suffer?"

"Horribly, he is subject to these sudden indispositions."

"It was sudden, then?"

"Mon Dieu! yes, madame."

When they arrived at the palace, Bussy ran up first to the duke.

"Here she is!" cried he.

"Is she furious?"

"Exasperated."

"Does she complain?"

"No, she does worse, she smiles."

"What do the people say?"

"They looked at her in mute terror; now, monseigneur, be careful."

"We stick to war?"

"Pardieu, ask one hundred to get ten, and with her you will only
get five."

"Bah! you think me very weak. Are you all here? Where is Monsoreau?"

"I believe he is at Meridor."

"Her majesty the queen mother!" cried the usher at the door.

Catherine entered, looking pale. The duke made a movement to
rise, but she threw herself into his arms and half stifled him
with kisses. She did more--she wept.

"We must take care," said Antragues to Ribeirac, "each tear will
be paid for by blood."

Catherine now sat down on the foot of the bed. At a sign from
Bussy everyone went away but himself.

"Will you not go and look after my poor attendants, M. de Bussy?
you who are at home here," said the queen.

It was impossible not to go, so he replied, "I am happy to please
your majesty," and he also retired.

Catherine wished to discover whether her son were really ill or
feigning. But he, worthy son of such a mother, played his part
to perfection. She had wept, he had a fever. Catherine, deceived,
thought him really ill, and hoped to have more influence over a
mind weakened by suffering. She overwhelmed him with tenderness,
embraced him, and wept so much that at last he asked her the
reason.

"You have run so great a risk," replied she.

"In escaping from the Louvre, mother?"

"No, after."

"How so?"

"Those who aided you in this unlucky escape----"

"Well?"

"Were your most cruel enemies."

"She wishes to find out who it was," thought he.

"The King of Navarre," continued she, "the eternal scourge of
our race----"

"Ah! she knows."

"He boasts of having gained much by it."

"That is impossible, for he had nothing to do with it; and if
he had, I am quite safe, as you see. I have not seen the King
of Navarre for two years."

"It was not only of danger I spoke!"

"Of what, then?" replied the duke, smiling, as he saw the tapestry
shake behind the queen.

"The king's anger," said she, in a solemn voice; "the furious
anger which menaces you----"

"This danger is something like the other, madame; he may be furious,
but I am safe here."

"You believe so?"

"I am sure of it; your majesty has announced it to me yourself."

"How so?"

"Because if you had been charged only with menaces, you would
not have come, and the king in that case would have hesitated
to place such a hostage in my hands."

"A hostage! I!" cried she, terrified.

"A most sacred and venerable one," replied the duke, with a
triumphant glance at the wall.

Catherine was baffled, but she did not know that Bussy was
encouraging the duke by signs.

"My son," said she at length, "you are quite right; they are words
of peace I bring to you."

"I listen, mother, and I think we shall now begin to understand
each other."




CHAPTER LXVII.

LITTLE CAUSES AND GREAT EFFECTS.

Catherine had, as we have seen, had the worst of the argument.
She was surprised, and began to wonder if her son were really
as decided as he appeared to be, when a slight event changed
the aspect of affairs. Bussy had been, as we said, encouraging
the prince secretly at every word that he thought dangerous to
his cause. Now his cause was war at any price, for he wished to
stay in Anjou, watch M. de Monsoreau, and visit his wife. The
duke feared Bussy, and was guided by him. Suddenly, however,
Bussy felt himself pulled by his cloak; he turned and saw Remy,
who drew him gently towards him.

"What is it, Remy?" said he impatiently. "Why disturb me at such
a moment?"

"A letter."

"And for a letter you take me from this important conversation."

"It is from Meridor."

"Oh! thank you, my good Remy."

"Then I was not wrong?"

"Oh, no; where is it?"

"That is what made me think it of importance; the messenger would
only give it to you yourself."

"Is he here?"

"Yes."

"Bring him in."

Remy opened the door, and a servant entered.

"Here is M. de Bussy," said Remy.

"Oh, I know him well," said the man, giving the letter.

"Did she give it to you?"

"No; M. de St. Luc."

As Bussy read, he grew first pale, then crimson. Remy dismissed
the servant, and Bussy, with a bewildered look, held out the
letter to him.

"See," said he, "what St. Luc has done for me."

"Well," said Remy, "this appears to me to be very good and St.
Luc is a gallant fellow."

"It is incredible!" cried Bussy.

"Certainly; but that is nothing. Here is our position quite changed;
I shall have a Comtesse de Bussy for a patient."

"Yes, she shall be my wife. So he is dead."

"So, you see, it is written."

"Oh, it seems like a dream, Remy. What! shall I see no more that
specter, always coming between me and happiness? It cannot be
true."

"It is true; read again, 'he died there.'"

"But Diana cannot stay at Meridor--I do not wish it; she must
go where she will forget him."

"Paris will be best; people soon forget at Paris."

"You are right; we will return to the little house in the Rue
des Tournelles, and she shall pass there her months of widowhood
in obscurity."

"But to go to Paris you must have----"

"What?"

"Peace in Anjou."

"True; oh, mon Dieu! what time lost."

"That means that you are going at once to Meridor."

"No, not I, but you; I must stay here; besides, she might not
like my presence just now."

"How shall I see her? Shall I go to the castle?"

"No; go first to the old copse and see if she is there; if she
is not then go to the castle."

"What shall I say to her?"

"Say that I am half mad." And pressing the young man's hand, he
returned to his place behind the tapes try.

Catherine had been trying to regain her ground.

"My son," she had said, "it seemed to me that a mother and son
could not fail to understand each other."

"Yet you see that happens sometimes."

"Never when she wishes it."

"When they wish it, you mean," said the duke, seeking a sign of
approbation from Bussy for his boldness.

"But I wish it, my son, and am willing to make any sacrifices
to attain peace."

"Oh!"

"Yes, my dear child. What do you ask?--what do you demand? Speak."

"Oh, my mother!" said Francois, almost embarrassed at his own
easy victory.

"Listen, my son. You do not wish to drown the kingdom in blood--it
is not possible; you are neither a bad Frenchman nor a bad brother."

"My brother insulted me, madame, and I owe him nothing, either
as my brother or king."

"But I, Francois--you cannot complain of me?"

"Yes, madame, you abandoned me."

"Ah! you wish to kill me. Well, a mother does not care to live
to see her children murder each other!" cried Catherine, who
wished very much to live.

"Oh, do not say that, madame, you tear my heart!" cried Francois,
whose heart was not torn at all.

Catherine burst into tears. The duke took her hands, and tried
to reassure her, not without uneasy glances towards the tapestry.

"But what do you want or ask for, mother? I will listen," said
he.

"I wish you to return to Paris, dear child, to return to your
brother's court, who will receive you with open arms."

"No, madame, it is not he whose arms are open to receive me--it
is the Bastile."

"No; return, and on my honor, on my love as a mother, I solemnly
swear that you shall be received by the king as though you were
king and he the Duc d'Anjou."

The duke looked to the tapestry.

"Accept, my son; you will have honors, guards."

"Oh, madame, your son gave me guards--his four minions!"

"Do not reply so; you shall choose your own guards, and M. de.
Bussy shall be their captain, if you like."

Again the duke glanced to the wall, and, to his surprise, saw
Bussy smiling and applauding by every possible method.

"What is the meaning of this change?" thought the duke; "is it
that he may be captain of my guards? Then must I accept?" said
he aloud, as though talking to himself.

"Yes, yes!" signed Bussy, with head and hands.

"Quit Anjou, and return to Paris?"

"Yes!" signed Bussy, more decidedly than ever.

"Doubtless, dear child," said Catherine, "it is not disagreeable
to return to Paris."

"Well, I will reflect," said the duke, who wished to consult with
Bussy.

"I have won," thought Catherine.

They embraced once more, and separated.




CHAPTER LXVIII.

HOW M. DE MONSOREAU OPENED AND SHUT HIS EYES, WHICH PROVED THAT
HE WAS NOT DEAD.

Remy rode along, wondering in what humor he should find Diana,
and what he should say to her. He had just arrived at the park
wall, when his horse, which had been trotting, stopped so suddenly
that, had he not been a good rider, he would have been thrown
over his head. Remy, astonished, looked to see the cause, and
saw before him a pool of blood, and a little further on, a body,
lying against the wall. "It is Monsoreau!" cried he; "how strange!
he lies dead there, and the blood is down here. Ah! there is
the track; he must have crawled there, or rather that good M.
de St. Luc leaned him up against the wall that the blood might
not fly to his head. He died with his eyes open, too."

All at once Remy started back in horror; the two eyes, that he
had seen open, shut again, and a paleness more livid than ever
spread itself over the face of the defunct. Remy became almost
as pale as M. de Monsoreau, but, as he was a doctor, he quickly
recovered his presence of mind, and said to himself that if Monsoreau
moved his eyes, it showed he was not dead. "And yet I have read,"
thought he, "of strange movements after death. This devil of a
fellow frightens one even after death. Yes, his eyes are quite
closed; there is one method of ascertaining whether he is dead
or not, and that is to shove my sword into him, and if he does
not move, he is certainly dead." And Remy was preparing for this
charitable action, when suddenly the eyes opened again. Remy
started back, and the perspiration rolled off his forehead as
he murmured, "He is not dead; we are in a nice position. Yes,
but if I kill him he will be dead." And he looked at Monsoreau,
who seemed also to be looking at him earnestly.

"Oh!" cried Remy, "I cannot do it. God knows that if he were
upright before me I would kill him with all my heart; but as he
is now, helpless and three parts dead, it would be an infamy."

"Help!" murmured Monsoreau, "I am dying."

"Mordieu!" thought Remy, "my position is embarrassing. I am a
doctor, and, as such, bound to succor my fellow-creatures when
they suffer. It is true that Monsoreau is so ugly that he can
scarcely be called a fellow-creature, still he is a man. Come,
I must forget that I am the friend of M. de Bussy, and do my
duty as a doctor."

"Help!" repeated the wounded man.

"Here I am," said Remy.

"Fetch me a priest and a doctor."

"The doctor is here, and perhaps he will dispense with the priest."

"Remy," said Monsoreau, "by what chance--"

Remy understood all the question might mean. This was no beaten
road, and no one was likely to come without particular business.

"Pardieu!" he replied, "a mile or two off I met M. de St. Luc----"

"Ah! my murderer."

"And he said, 'Remy, go to the old copse, there you will find
a man dead.'"

"Dead?"

"Yes, he thought so; well, I came here and saw you."

"And now, tell me frankly, am I mortally wounded?"

"I will try to find out."

Remy approached him carefully, took off his cloak, his doublet
and shirt. The sword had penetrated between the sixth and seventh
ribs.

"Do you suffer much?"

"In my back, not in my chest."

"Ah, let me see; where?"

"Below the shoulder bone."

"The steel must have come against a bone." And he began to examine.
"No, I am wrong," said he, "the sword came against nothing, but
passed right through." Monsoreau fainted after this examination.

"Ah! that is all right," said Remy, "syncope, low pulse, cold in
the hands and legs: Diable! the widowhood of Madame de Monsoreau
will not last long, I fear."

At this moment a slight bloody foam rose to the lips of the wounded
man.

Remy drew from his pocket his lancet case; then tearing off a
strip from the patient's shirt, bound it round his arm.

"We shall see," said he, "if the blood flows. Ah, it does! and
I believe that Madame de Monsoreau will not be a widow. Pardon,
my dear M. de Bussy, but I am a doctor."

Presently the patient breathed, and opened his eyes.

"Oh!" stammered he, "I thought all was over."

"Not yet, my dear monsieur; it is even possible----"

"That I live!"

"Oh, mon Dieu! yes; but let me close the wound. Stop; do not
move; nature at this moment is aiding my work. I make the blood
flow, and she stops it. Ah! nature is a great doctor, my dear
sir. Let me wipe your lips. See the bleeding has stopped already.
Good; all goes well, or rather badly."

"Badly!"

"No, not for you; but I know what I mean."

"You think I shall get well?"

"Alas! yes."

"You are a singular doctor, M. Remy."

"Never mind, as long as I cure you," said he, rising.

"Do not abandon me," said the count.

"Ah! you talk too much. Diable! I ought to tell him to cry out."

"What do you mean?"

"Never mind; your wound is dressed. Now I will go to the castle
and fetch assistance."

"And what must I do meanwhile?"

"Keep quite still; do not stir; breathe lightly, and try not to
cough. Which is the nearest house?"

"The chateau de Meridor."

"Which is the way to it?" said Remy, affecting ignorance.

"Get over the wall, and you will find yourself in the park."

"Very well; I go."

"Thanks, generous man."

"Generous, indeed, if you only knew all."

He soon arrived at the chateau, where all the inhabitants were
busy looking for the body of the count; for St. Luc had given
them a wrong direction. Remy came among them like a thunderbolt,
and was so eager to bring them to the rescue, that Diana looked
at him with surprise, "I thought he was Bussy's friend," murmured
she, as Remy disappeared, carrying with him a wheelbarrow, lint
and water.




CHAPTER LXIX.

HOW M. LE DUC D'ANJOU WENT TO MERIDOR TO CONGRATULATE MADAME
DE MONSOREAU ON THE DEATH OF HER HUSBAND, AND FOUND HIM THERE
BEFORE HIM.

As soon as the duke left his mother, he hastened to Bussy to know
the meaning of all his signs. Bussy, who was reading St. Luc's
letter for the fifth time, received the prince with a gracious
smile.

"How! monseigneur takes the trouble to come to my house to seek
me."

"Yes mordieu, I want an explanation."

"From me?"

"Yes, from you."

"I listen, monseigneur."

"You tell me to steel myself against the suggestions of my mother,
and to sustain the attack valiantly. I do so; and in the hottest
of the fight you tell me to surrender."

"I gave you all those charges, monseigneur, because I was ignorant
of the object for which your mother came; but now that I see that
she has come to promote your highness's honor and glory----"

"How! what do you mean?"

"Doubtless: what does your highness want? To triumph over your
enemies, do you not? For I do not believe, as some people say,
that you wish to become King of France."

The duke looked sullen.

"Some might counsel you to it, but believe me they are your most
cruel enemies. Consider for yourself, monseigneur; have you one
hundred thousand men--ten millions of livres--alliance with
foreigners--and, above all, would you turn against your king?"

"My king did not hesitate to turn against me."

"Ah! there you are right. Well! declare yourself--get crowned--take
the title of King of France--and if you succeed, I ask no better;
I should grow great with you."

"Who speaks of being king?" cried the duke, angrily; "you discuss
a question which I have never proposed, even to myself."

"Well, then, that is settled. Let them give you a guard and five
hundred thousand livres. Obtain, before peace is signed, a subsidy
from Anjou, to carry on the war. Once you have it, you can keep
it. So, we should have arms and money, and we could do----God
knows what."

"But once they have me at Paris, they will laugh at me."

"Oh! impossible, monseigneur; did you not hear what the queen
mother offered you?"

"She offered me many things."

"That disquiets you?"

"Yes."

"But, among other things, she offered you a company of guards,
even if I commanded it."

"Yes, she offered that."

"Well, accept; I will be captain; Antragues and Livarot lieutenants;
and Ribeirac ensign. Let us get up your company for you, and see
if they dare to laugh at you then."

"Ma foi! I believe you are right, Bussy; I will think of it."

"Do so, monseigneur."

"What were you reading so attentively when I came in?"

"Oh! a letter, which interests you still more than me. Where the
devil were my brains, that I did not show it to you?"

"What is it?"

"Sad news, monseigneur; Monsoreau is dead."

"What!" cried the duke, with a surprise which Bussy thought was
a joyful one.

"Dead, monseigneur."

"M. de Monsoreau!"

"Mon Dieu! yes; are we not all mortal?"

"Yes; but so suddenly."

"Ah! but if you are killed?"

"Then, he was killed?"

"So it seems; and by St. Luc, with whom he quarreled."

"Oh, that dear St. Luc!"

"I did not think he was one of your highness's friends."

"Oh, he is my brother's, and, since we are to be reconciled, his
friends are mine. But are you sure?"

"As sure as I can be. Here is a letter from St. Luc, announcing
it; and I have sent Remy, my doctor, to present my condolences
to the old baron."

"Oh, Monsoreau!" cried the prince, with his malignant smile.

"Why monseigneur, one would say you hated the poor count."

"No, it was you."

"Of course I did; did he not humiliate me through you?"

"You remember it still."

"But you, monseigneur, whose friend and tool he was----"

"Well, well, get my horse saddled, Bussy."

"What for?"

"To go to Meridor; I wish to pay a visit to Madame Monsoreau.
I have been projecting one for some time, and I do not know why
it has not taken place sooner."

"Now Monsoreau is dead," thought Bussy, "I do not care; I will
protect Diana. I will go with him, and see her."

A quarter of an hour after, the prince, Bussy, and ten gentlemen
rode to Meridor, with that pleasure which fine weather, turf,
and youth always inspire in men on horseback.

The porter at the chateau came to ask the names of the visitors.

"The Duc d'Anjou," replied the prince.

The porter blew his horn, and soon windows were opened, and they
heard the noise of bolts and bars as the door was unfastened,
and the old baron appeared on the threshold, holding in his hand
a bunch of keys. Immediately behind him stood a lady.

"Ah, there is the beautiful Diana!" cried the duke; "do you see
her, Bussy?"

Diana, indeed, came out of the house, and behind her came a litter,
on which lay Monsoreau, his eyes shining with fever and jealousy
as he was carried along.

"What does this mean?" cried the duke to his companion, who had
turned whiter than the handkerchief with which he was trying
to hide his emotion.

"Long live the Duc d'Anjou!" cried Monsoreau, raising his hand
in the air by a violent effort.

"Take care, you will hurt yourself," said a voice behind him.
It was Remy.

Surprise does not last long at court, so, with a smile, the duke
said, "Oh, my dear count, what a happy surprise! Do you know
we heard you were dead?"

"Come near, monseigneur, and let me kiss your hand. Thank God,
not only I am not dead, but I shall live; I hope to serve you
with more ardor than ever."

As for Bussy, he felt stunned, and scarcely dared to look at
Diana. This treasure, twice lost to him, belonged still to his
rival.

"And you, M. de Bussy," said Monsoreau, "receive my thanks, for
it is almost to you that I owe my life."

"To me!" stammered the young man, who thought the count was mocking
him.

"Yes, indirectly, it is true, for here is my saviour," said he,
turning to Remy, who would willingly have sunk into the earth.
Then, in spite of his signs, which he took for precautions to
himself, he recounted the care and skill which the young doctor
had exhibited towards him.

The duke frowned, and Bussy looked thunders. The poor fellow raised
his hands to heaven.

"I hear," continued the count, "that Remy one day found you dying,
as he found me. It is a tie of friendship between us, M. de Bussy,
and when Monsoreau loves, he loves well; it is true that when
he hates, it is also with all his heart."

"Come, then," said the duke, getting off his horse, "deign, beautiful
Diana, to do us the honors of the house, which we thought to find
in grief, but which we find still the abode of joy. As for you,
Monsoreau, rest--you require it."

"Monseigneur!" said the count, "it shall never be said that
Monsoreau, while he lived, allowed another to do the honors of
his house to you; my servants will carry me, and wherever you
go, I shall follow."

Bussy approached Diana, and Monsoreau smiled; he took her hand,
and he smiled again. It was only the duke he feared.

"Here is a great change, M. le Comte," said Diana.

"Alas! why is it not greater!"




CHAPTER LXX.

THE INCONVENIENCE OF LARGE LITTERS AND NARROW DOORS.

Bussy did not quit Diana; the smiles of Monsoreau gave him a liberty
which he was only too glad to make use of.

"Madame," said he to Diana, "I am in truth the most miserable
of men. On the news of his death, I advised the prince to return
to Paris, and to come to terms with his mother; he did so, and
now you remain in Anjou."

"Oh, Louis," replied she, "we dare not say that we are unhappy;
so many happy days, so many joys--do you forget them all?"

"I forget nothing, madame; on the contrary, I remember but too
much, and that is why I suffer as I do at losing this happiness.
What shall I do if I return to Paris, a hundred leagues from
you? My heart sinks at the thought, Diana."

Diana looked at him, and saw so much grief in his eyes, that she
said, "Well, if you go to Paris, I will go also."

"How! will you quit M. de Monsoreau?"

"No, he would not allow me to do so; he must come with us."

"Wounded, ill as he is? Impossible!"

"He will come, I tell you." And, leaving Bussy, she went to the
prince. The count frowned dreadfully.

"Monseigneur," said she, "they say your highness is fond of flowers;
if you will come with me, I will show you the most beautiful in
Anjou."

The duke offered her his hand.

"Where are you about to take monseigneur?" asked Monsoreau uneasily.

"Into the greenhouse."

"Ah! well, carry me there."

"Ma foi!" thought Remy, "I was right not to kill him, for he
will soon kill himself."

Diana smiled on Bussy, and said to him, in a low voice, "Do not
let M. de Monsoreau suspect that you are about to leave Anjou,
and I will manage all."

"Good!" said Bussy, and approaching the prince, he whispered,
"Do not let Monsoreau know that we intend to make peace."

"Why not?"

"Because he might tell the queen-mother, to make a friend of her."

"You suspect him, then?"

"Yes, I do."

"Well, so do I; I believe he only counterfeited death to deceive
us."

"No, he really received a sword-thrust through his body, and
but for that fool of a Remy, he would have died; I believe his
soul must be glued to his body."

They arrived at the conservatory, and Diana continued to smile
charmingly on the prince. He passed first, then Diana, and Monsoreau
wished to follow, but it was impossible. His litter was too large
to go through the door. At this sight he uttered a groan. Diana
went on quietly, without looking at him, but Bussy, who understood
her, said to him:

"It is useless to try, M. le Comte, your litter will not pass."

"Monseigneur!" cried Monsoreau, "do not go into that conservatory,
some of the flowers exhale dangerous perfumes."

Then he fainted, and was carried to his room.

Bussy went to tell Diana what had happened, and she left the duke
to go to the castle.

"Have we succeeded?" said Bussy to her as she passed.

"I hope so; do not go away without having seen Gertrude."

When Monsoreau opened his eyes again, he saw Diana standing at
his bedside.

"Ah! it is you, madame," said he, "to-night we leave for Paris."

Remy cried out in horror, but Monsoreau paid no attention.

"Can you think of such a thing, with your wound?" said Diana,
quietly.

"Madame, I would rather die than suffer, and were I to die on
the road, we start to-night."

"As you please, monsieur."

"Then make your preparations."

"My preparations are soon made, but may I ask the reason of this
sudden determination?"

"I will tell you, madame, when you have no more flowers to show to
the prince, and when my doors are large enough to admit litters."

Diana bowed.

"But, madame----" said Remy.

"M. le Comte wishes it," replied she, "and my duty is to obey."
And she left the room.

As the duke was making his adieux to the Baron de Meridor, Gertrude
appeared, and said aloud to the duke that her mistress regretted that
she could not have the honor of saying farewell to his highness; and
softly to Bussy that Diana would set off for Paris that evening.
As they went home again, the duke felt unwilling to leave Anjou
now that Diana smiled on him. Therefore he said, "I have been
reflecting, Bussy," said he.

"On what, monseigneur?"

"That it is not wise to give in at once to my mother."

"You are right, she thinks herself clever enough without that."

"But by dragging it on for a week, and giving fetes, and calling
the liability around us, she will see how strong we are."

"Well reasoned, but still----"

"I will stay here a week; depend upon it I shall draw new concessions
from the queen."

Bussy appeared to reflect. "Well, monseigneur," said he, "perhaps
you are right, but the king, not knowing your intentions, may
become annoyed; he is very irascible."

"You are right, but I shall send some one to the king to announce
my return in a week."

"Yes, but that some one will run great risks."

"If I change my mind, you mean."

"Yes, and in spite of your promise, you would do so if you thought
it your interest."

"Perhaps."

"Then they will send your messenger to the Bastile."

"I will give him a letter, and not let him know what he is carrying."

"On the contrary, give him no letter, and let him know."

"Then no one will go."

"Oh! I know some one."

"Who?"

"I, myself."

"You!"

"Yes, I like difficult negotiations."

"Bussy, my dear Bussy, if you will do that, I shall be eternally
grateful."

Bussy smiled. The duke thought he hesitated.

"And I will give you ten thousand crowns for your journey," added
he.

"Thanks, monseigneur, but these things cannot be paid for."

"Then you will go?"

"Yes."

"When?"

"Whenever you like."

"The sooner the better."

"This evening if you wish it."

"Dear Bussy."

"You know I would do anything for your highness. I will go to-night;
you stay here and enjoy yourself, and get me something good from
the queen-mother."

"I will not forget."

Bussy then prepared to depart as soon as the signal arrived from
Meridor. It did not come till the next morning, for the count had
felt himself so feeble that he had been forced to take a night's
rest. But early in the morning a messenger came to announce to
Bussy that the count had set off for Paris in a litter, followed
on horseback by Remy, Diana, and Gertrude. Bussy jumped on his
horse, and took the same road.




CHAPTER LXXI.

WHAT TEMPER THE KING WAS IN WHEN ST. LUC REAPPEARED AT THE LOUVRE.

Since the departure of Catherine, Henri, however, confident in
his ambassador, had thought only of arming himself against the
attacks of his brother. He amused, or rather ennuyed, himself by
drawing up long lists of proscriptions, in which were inscribed
in alphabetical order all who had not shown themselves zealous
for his cause. The lists became longer every day, and at the
S---- and the L----, that is to say, twice over, was inscribed
the name of M. de St. Luc. Chicot, in the midst of all this,
was, little by little, and man by man, enrolling an army for
his master. One evening Chicot entered the room where the king
sat at supper.

"What is it?" asked the king.

"M. de St. Luc."

"M. de St. Luc?"

"Yes."

"At Paris?"

"Yes."

"At the Louvre?"

"Yes."

The king rose, red and agitated.

"What has he come for? The traitor!"

"Who knows?"

"He comes, I am sure, as deputy from the states of Anjou--as an
envoy from my rebellious brother. He makes use of the rebellion
as a safe conduct to come here and insult me."

"Who knows?"

"Or perhaps he comes to ask me for his property, of which I have
kept back the revenues, which may have been rather an abuse of
power, as, after all, he has committed no crime."

"Who knows?"

"Ah, you repeat eternally the same thing; mort de ma vie! you
tire my patience out with your eternal 'Who knows?'"

"Eh! mordieu! do you think you are very amusing with your eternal
questions?"

"At least you might reply something."

"And what should I reply? Do you take me for an ancient oracle?
It is you who are tiresome with your foolish suppositions."

"M. Chicot?"

"M. Henri."

"Chicot, my friend, you see my grief and you laugh at me."

"Do not have any grief."

"But everyone betrays me."

"Who knows? Ventre de biche! who knows?"

Henri went down to his cabinet, where, at the news of his return,
a number of gentlemen had assembled, who were looking at St.
Luc with evident distrust and animosity. He, however, seemed
quite unmoved by this. He had brought his wife with him also,
and she was seated, wrapped in her traveling-cloak, when the
king entered in an excited state.

"Ah, monsieur, you here!" he cried.

"Yes, sire," replied St. Luc.

"Really, your presence at the Louvre surprises me."

"Sire, I am only surprised that, under the circumstances, your
majesty did not expect me."

"What do you mean, monsieur?"

"Sire, your majesty is in danger."

"Danger!" cried the courtiers.

"Yes, gentlemen, a real, serious danger, in which the king has
need of the smallest as well as the greatest of those devoted
to him; therefore I come to lay at his feet my humble services."

"Ah!" said Chicot, "you see, my son, that I was right to say,
'who knows.'"

Henri did not reply at once; he would not yield immediately.
After a pause, he said, "Monsieur, you have only done your duty;
your services are due to us."

"The services of all the king's subjects are due to him, I know,
sire; but in these times many people forget to pay their debts.
I, sire, come to pay mine, happy that your majesty will receive
me among the number of your creditors."

"Then," said Henri, in a softer tone, "you return without any
other motive than that which you state; without any mission,
or safe-conduct?"

"Sire, I return simply and purely for that reason. Now, your
majesty may throw me into the Bastile, or have me shot, but I
shall have done my duty. Sire, Anjou is on fire; Touraine is
about to revolt; Guienne is rising. M. le Duc d'Anjou is hard
at work."

"He is well supported, is he not?"

"Sire, M. de Bussy, firm as he is, cannot make your brother brave."

"Ah! he trembles, then, the rebel."

"Let me go and shake St. Luc's hand," said Chicot, advancing.

The king followed him, and going up to his old favorite, and laying
his hand on his shoulder, said,--

"You are welcome, St. Luc!"

"Ah! sire," cried St. Luc, kissing the king's hand, "I find again
my beloved master."

"Yes, but you, my poor St. Luc, you have grown thin."

"It is with grief at having displeased your majesty," said a
feminine voice. Now, although the voice was soft and respectful,
Henri frowned, for it was as distasteful to him as the noise
of thunder was to Augustus.

"Madame de St. Luc!" said he. "Ah! I forgot."

Jeanne threw herself at his feet.

"Rise, madame," said he, "I love all that bear the name of St.
Luc." Jeanne took his hand and kissed it, but he withdrew it
quickly.

"You must convert the king," said Chicot to the young woman, "you
are pretty enough for it."

But Henri turned his back to her, and passing his arm round St.
Luc's neck, said,--

"Then we have made peace, St. Luc?"

"Say rather, sire, that the pardon is granted."

"Madame!" said Chicot, "a good wife should not leave her husband,"
and he pushed her after the king and St. Luc.




CHAPTER LXXII.

IN WHICH WE MEET TWO IMPORTANT PERSONAGES WHOM WE HAVE LOST SIGHT
OF FOR SOME TIME.

There are two of the personages mentioned in this story, about
whom the reader has the right to ask for information. We mean an
enormous monk, with thick eyebrows and large lips, whose neck was
diminishing every day; and a large donkey whose sides were gradually
swelling out like a balloon. The monk resembled a hogshead; and
the ass was like a child's cradle, supported by four posts.

The one inhabited a cell at St. Genevieve, and the other the
stable at the same convent. The one was called Gorenflot, and
the other Panurge. Both were enjoying the most prosperous lot
that ever fell to a monk and an ass.

The monks surrounded their illustrious brother with cares and
attentions, and Pan urge fared well for his master's sake.

If a missionary arrived from foreign countries, or a secret legate
from the Pope, they pointed out to him Brother Gorenflot, that
double model of the church preaching and militant; they showed
Gorenflot in all his glory, that is to say, in the midst of a
feast, seated at a table in which a hollow had been cut on purpose
for his sacred stomach, and they related with a noble pride that
Gorenflot consumed the rations of eight ordinary monks. And when
the newcomer had piously contemplated this spectacle, the prior
would say, "See how he eats! And if you had but heard his sermon
one famous night, in which he offered to devote himself for the
triumph of the faith. It is a mouth which speaks like that of
St. Chrysostom, and swallows like that of Gargantua."

Every time that any one spoke of the sermon, Gorenflot sighed
and said:

"What a pity I did not write it!

"A man like you has no need to write," the prior would reply.
"No, you speak from inspiration; you open your mouth, and the
words of God flow from your lips."

"Do you think so?" sighed Gorenflot.

However, Gorenflot was not perfectly happy. He, who at first
thought his banishment from the convent an immense misfortune,
discovered in his exile infinite joys before unknown to him. He
sighed for liberty; liberty with Chicot, the joyous companion,
with Chicot, whom he loved without knowing why. Since his return
to the convent, he had never been allowed to go out. He never
attempted to combat this decision, but he grew sadder from day
to day. The prior saw this, and at last said to him:

"My dear brother, no one can fight against his vocation; yours
is to fight for the faith; go then, fulfil your mission, only
watch well over your precious life, and return for the great
day."

"What great day?"

"That of the Fete Dieu."

"Ita," replied Gorenflot; it was the only Latin word he knew,
and used it on all occasions. "But give me some money to bestow
in alms in a Christian manner."

"You have your text, have you not, dear brother?"

"Yes, certainly."

"Confide it to me."

"Willingly, but to you alone; it is this: 'The flail which threshes
the corn.'"

"Oh, magnificent! sublime!" cried the prior.

"Now, my father, am I free?"

"Yes, my son, go and walk in the way of the Lord."

Gorenflot saddled Panurge, mounted him with the aid of two vigorous
monks, and left the convent about seven in the evening. It was
the same day on which St. Luc arrived at Paris from Meridor.

Gorenflot, having passed through the Rue St. Etienne, was going
to have turned to the right, when suddenly Panurge stopped; a
strong hand was laid on his croup.

"Who is there?" cried Gorenflot, in terror.

"A friend."

Gorenflot tried to turn, but he could not.

"What do you want?" said he.

"Will my venerable brother show me the way to the Corne d'Abondance?"

"Morbleu! it is M. Chicot," cried Gorenflot, joyfully.

"Just so; I was going to seek you at the convent, when I saw
you come out, and followed you until we were alone. Ventre de
biche! how thin you are!"

"But what are you carrying, M. Chicot?" said the monk, "you appear
laden."

"It is some venison which I have stolen from the king."

"Dear M. Chicot! and under the other arm?"

"A bottle of Cyprus wine sent by a king to my king."

"Let me see!"

"It is my wine, and I love it much; do not you, brother?"

"Oh! oh!" cried Gorenflot, raising his eyes and hands to Heaven,
and beginning to sing in a voice which shook the neighboring
windows. It was the first time he had sung for a month.




CHAPTER LXXIII.

DIANA'S SECOND JOURNEY TO PARIS.

Let us leave the two friends entering the Corne d'Abondance,
and return to the litter of M. Monsoreau and to Bussy, who set
out with the intention of following them. Not only is it not
difficult for a cavalier well mounted to overtake foot travelers,
but it is difficult not to pass them. This happened to Bussy.

It was the end of May, the heat was great, and about noon M.
de Monsoreau wished to make a halt in a little wood, which was
near the road, and as they had a horse laden with provisions,
they remained there until the great heat of the day had gone by.
During this time Bussy passed them, but he had not traveled, as
we may imagine, without inquiring if a party on horseback, and
a litter carried by peasants, had been seen. Until he had passed
the village of Durtal, he had obtained the most satisfactory
information, and, convinced that they were before him, had ridden
on quickly. But he could see nothing of them, and suddenly all
traces of them vanished, and on arriving at La Fleche he felt
certain he must have passed them on the road. Then he remembered
the little wood, and doubted not that they had been resting there
when he passed. He installed himself at a little inn, which had
the advantage of being opposite the principal hotel, where he
doubted not that Monsoreau would stop; and he remained at the
window watching. About four o'clock he saw a courier arrive,
and half an hour afterwards the whole party. He waited till nine
o'clock, and then he saw the courier set out again, and after
him the litter, then Diana, Remy, and Gertrude on horseback.
He mounted his horse and followed them, keeping them in sight.
Monsoreau scarcely allowed Diana to move from his side, but kept
calling her every instant. After a little while, Bussy gave a long,
shrill whistle, with which he had been in the habit of calling
his servants at his hotel. Remy recognized it in a moment. Diana
started, and looked at the young man, who made an affirmative
sign; then he came up to her and whispered:

"It is he!"

"Who is speaking to you, madame?" said Monsoreau.

"To me, monsieur?"

"Yes, I saw a shadow pass close to you, and heard a voice."

"It is M. Remy; are you also jealous of him?"

"No, but I like people to speak out, it amuses me."

"There are some things which cannot be said aloud before M. le
Comte, however," said Gertrude, coming to the rescue.

"Why not?"

"For two reasons; firstly, because some would not interest you,
and some would interest you too much."

"And of which kind is what M. Remy has just whispered?"

"Of the latter."

"What did Remy say to you, madame?"

"I said, M. le Comte, that if you excite yourself so much, you
will be dead before we have gone a third of the way."

Monsoreau grew deadly pale.

"He is expecting you behind," whispered Remy, again, "ride slowly,
and he will overtake you."

Monsoreau, who heard a murmur, tried to rise and look back after
Diana.

"Another movement like that, M. le Comte, and you will bring on
the bleeding again," said Remy.

Diana turned and rode back a little way, while Remy walked by
the litter to occupy the count. A few seconds after, Bussy was
by her side.

"You see I follow you," said he, after their first embrace.

"Oh! I shall be happy, if I know you are always so near to me."

"But by day he will see us."

"No; by day you can ride afar off; it is only I who will see
you, Louis. From the summit of some hill, at the turn of some
road, your plume waving, your handkerchief fluttering in the
breeze, would speak to me in your name, and tell me that you
love me."

"Speak on, my beloved Diana; you do not know what music I find
in your voice."

"And when we travel by night, which we shall often do, for Remy
has told him that the freshness of the evening is good for his
wounds, then, as this evening, from time to time, I will stay
behind, and we will tell each other, with a rapid pressure of
the hands, all our thoughts of each other during the day."

"Oh! I love you! I love you!" murmured Bussy. "Oh! to see you,
to press your hand, Diana."

Suddenly they heard a voice which made them both tremble, Diana
with fear, and Bussy with anger.

"Diana!" it cried, "where are you? Answer me."

"Oh! it is he! I had forgotten him," said Diana. "Sweet dream,
frightful awaking."

"Listen, Diana; we are together. Say one word, and nothing can
separate us more; Diana, let us fly! What prevents us? Before
us is happiness and liberty. One word, and we go; one word, and
lost to him, you belong to me forever."

"And my father?"

"When he shall know how I love you?"

"Oh! a father!"

"I will do nothing by violence, dear Diana; order, and I obey."

"It is our destiny, Bussy; but be strong, and you shall see if
I know how to love."

"Must we then separate?"

"Comtesse!" cried the voice, "reply, or, if I kill myself in doing
it, I will jump from this infernal litter."

"Adieu, Bussy, he will do as he says."

"You pity him?"

"Jealous!" said Diana, with an adorable smile.

Bussy let her go.

In a minute she was by the litter, and found the count half fainting.

"Ah!" cried he, "where were you, madame?"

"Where should I have been? Behind you."

"At my side, madame; do not leave me again."

From time to time this scene was renewed. They all hoped he would
die with rage; but he did not die: on the contrary, at the end of
ten days, when they arrived at Paris, he was decidedly better.
During these ten days Diana had conquered all Bussy's pride,
and had persuaded him to come and visit Monsoreau, who always
showed him much friendship. Remy watched the husband and gave
notes to the wife.

"Esculapius and Mercury," said he; "my functions accumulate."




CHAPTER LXXIV.

HOW THE AMBASSADOR OF THE DUC D'ANJOU ARRIVED AT THE LOUVRE, AND
THE RECEPTION HE MET WITH.

As neither Catherine nor the Duc d'Anjou reappeared at the Louvre,
the dissension between the brothers became apparently every day
more and more certain. The king thought, "No news, bad news."
The minions added, "Francois, badly counseled, has detained the
queen-mother."

Badly counseled. In these words were comprised all the policy of
this singular reign, and the three preceding ones. Badly counseled
was Charles IX. when he authorized the massacre of St. Bartholomew.
Badly counseled was Francois II. when he ordered the massacre
at Amboise. Badly counseled had been Henri II. when he burned
so many heretics and conspirators. And now they dared not say,
"Your brother has the family blood in his veins; he wishes, like
the rest, to dethrone or poison; he would do to you what you
did to your elder brother; what your elder brother did to his,
what your mother has taught you to do to one another." Therefore
they said, "Your brother is badly counseled."

Now, as only one person was able to counsel Francois, it was
against Bussy that the cry was raised, which became every day
more and more furious. At last the news was spread that the duke
had sent an ambassador. At this the king grew pale with anger,
and the minions swore that he should be cut to pieces, and a
piece sent to all the provinces of France as a specimen of the
king's anger. Chicot said nothing, but he reflected. Now the
king thought much of Chicot's reflections, and he questioned him
about them.

"Sire," replied he, "if your brother sends an ambassador, it
is because he feels himself strong enough to do so; he who is
prudence itself. Now, if he is strong, we must temporize with him.
Let us respect his ambassador, and receive him with civility. That
engages you to nothing. Do you remember how your brother embraced
Admiral Coligny, who came as ambassador from the Huguenots?"

"Then you approve of the policy of my brother Charles?"

"Not so, but I cite a fact; and I say to you, do not hurt a poor
devil of a herald, or ambassador; perhaps we may find the way to
seize the master, the mover, the chief, the great Duc d'Anjou,
with the three Guises; and if you can shut them up in a place
safer than the Louvre, do it."

"That is not so bad."

"Then why do you let all your friends bellow so?"

"Bellow!"

"Yes; I would say, roar, if they could be taken for lions, but
they are more like bearded apes."

"Chicot, they are my friends."

"Friends! I would lay any bet to make them all turn against you
before to-morrow."

"Well, what do you advise?"

"To wait, my son. Half the wisdom of Solomon lies in that word.
If an ambassador arrive, receive him courteously. And as to your
brother, kill him if you can and like, but do not degrade him.
He is a great knave, but he is a Valois; besides, he can do that
well enough for himself."

"It is true, Chicot."

"One more lesson that you owe me. Now let me sleep, Henri; for
the last week I have been engaged in fuddling a monk."

"A monk! the one of whom you have already spoken to me?"

"Just so. You promised him an abbey."

"I?"

"Pardieu! it is the least you can do for him, after all be has
done for you."

"He is then still devoted to me?"

"He adores you. Apropos, my son----"

"What?"

"In three weeks it will be the Fete Dieu."

"Well!"

"Are we to have some pretty little procession?"

"I am the most Christian king, and it is my duty to set an example
to my subjects."

"And you will, as usual, stop at the four great convents of Paris?"

"Yes."

"At St. Genevieve?"

"Yes, that is the second I stop at."

"Good."

"Why do you ask?"

"Oh, nothing--I was curious. Now I know all I want, so good night,
Henri!"

But just as Chicot prepared to leave, a great noise was heard.

"What is that noise?" said the king.

"It is ordained that I am not to sleep. Henri, you must get me
a room in the town, or I must leave your service; the Louvre
becomes insupportable."

At this moment the captain of the guards entered, saying, "Sire,
it is an envoy from M. le Duc d'Anjou."

"With a suite?"

"No, sire, alone."

"Then you must receive him doubly well, Henri, for he is a brave
fellow."

"Well," said the king, very pale, but trying to look calm, "let
all my court assemble in the great hall."





CHAPTER LXXV.

WHICH IS ONLY THE END OF THE PRECEDING ONE.

Henri sat on his throne in the great hall, and around him was
grouped an eager crowd. He looked pale and frowning.

"Sire," said Quelus to the king, "do you know the name of the
ambassador?"

"No; but what does it matter?"

"Sire, it is M. de Bussy; the insult is doubled."

"I see no insult," said the king, with affected sang-froid.

"Let him enter," continued he. Bussy, with his hat in his hand,
and his head erect, advanced straight to the king, and waited,
with his usual look of pride, to be interrogated.

"You here, M. de Bussy!" said the king; "I thought you were in
Anjou."

"Sire, I was, but you see I have quitted it."

"And what brings you here?"

"The desire of presenting my humble respects to your majesty."

The king and courtiers looked astonished; they expected a different
answer.

"And nothing else?" said the king.

"I will add, sire, the orders I received from the Duc d'Anjou
to join his respects to mine."

"And the duke said nothing else?"

"Only that he was on the point of returning with the queen-mother,
and wished me to apprise your majesty of the return of one of
your most faithful subjects."

The king was choked with surprise.

"Good morning, M. de Bussy," said Chicot.

Bussy turned, astonished to find a friend in that place.

"Good day, M. Chicot; I am delighted to see you."

"Is that all you have to say, M. de Bussy?" asked the king.

"Yes, sire; anything that remains to be said, will be said by
the duke himself."

The king rose and went away, and Bussy continued to converse
with Chicot, until the king called to him. As soon as Bussy was
alone, Quelus approached him.

"Good morning, M. Quelus," said Bussy graciously; "may I have
the honor of asking how you are?"

"Very bad."

"Oh, mon Dieu! what is the matter?"

"Something annoys me infinitely."

"Something! And are you not powerful enough to get rid of it?"

"It is not something, but some one, that M. Quelus means," said
Maugiron, advancing.

"And whom I advise him to get rid of," said Schomberg, coming
forward on the other side.

"Ah, M. de Schomberg! I did not recognize you."

"Perhaps not; is my face still blue?"

"Not so; you are very pale. Are you not well?"

"Yes, it is with anger."

"Oh I then you have also some one who annoys you?"

"Yes, monsieur."

"And I also," said Maugiron.

"Really, gentlemen, you all look very gloomy."

"You forget me," said D'Epernon, planting himself before Bussy.

"Pardon me, M. d'Epernon, you were behind the others, as usual,
and I have so little the pleasure of knowing you, that it was
not for me to speak first."

It was strange to see Bussy smiling and calm among those four
furious faces, whose eyes spoke with so terrible an eloquence,
that he must have been blind or stupid not to have understood
their language.

But Bussy never lost his smile.

"It seems to me that there is an echo in this room," said he quietly.

"Look, gentlemen," said Quelus, "how provincial M. de Bussy has
become; he has a beard, and no knot to his sword; he has black
boots and a gray hat."

"It is an observation that I was just making to myself, my dear
sir; seeing you so well dressed, I said to myself, 'How much
harm a few weeks' absence does to a man; here am I, Louis de
Clermont, forced to take a little Gascon gentleman as a model
of taste.' But let me pass; you are so near to me that you tread
on my feet, and I feel it in spite of my boots."

And turning away, he advanced towards St. Luc, whom he saw
approaching.

"Incredible!" cried all the young men, "we insulted him; he took
no notice."

"There is something in it," said Quelus.

"Well!" said the king, advancing, "what were you and M. de Bussy
saying?"

"Do you wish to know what M. de Bussy said, sire?"

"Yes, I am curious."

"Well, I trod on his foot, and insulted him, and he said nothing."

"What, gentlemen," cried Henri, feigning anger, "you dared to
insult a gentleman in the Louvre!"

"Alas! yes, sire, and he said nothing."

"Well! I am going to the queen."

As the king went out of the great door, St. Luc reentered by a
side one, and advanced towards the four gentlemen.

"Pardon, M. Quelus," said he, "but do you still live in the Rue
St. Honore?"

"Yes, my dear friend; why do you ask?"

"I have two words to say to you."

"Ah!"

"And you, M. de Schomberg?"

"Rue Bethisy," said Schomberg, astonished.

"D'Epernon's address I know."

"Rue de Grenelle."

"You are my neighbor. And you, Maugiron?"

"Near the Louvre. But I begin to understand; you come from M.
de Bussy."

"Never mind from whom I come; I have to speak to you, that is
all."

"To all four of us?"

"Yes."

"Then if you cannot speak here, let us all go to Schomberg's;
it is close by."

"So be it."

And the five gentlemen went out of the Louvre arm in arm.




CHAPTER LXXVI.

HOW M. DE ST. LUC ACQUITTED HIMSELF OF THE COMMISSION GIVEN TO
HIM BY BUSSY.

Let us leave St. Luc a little while in Schomberg's room, and see
what had passed between him and Bussy.

Once out of the hall, St. Luc had stopped, and looked anxiously
at his friend.

"Are you ill?" said he, "you are so pale; you look as though you
were about to faint."

"No, I am only choking with anger."

"You do not surely mind those fellows?"

"You shall see."

"Come, Bussy, be calm."

"You are charming, really; be calm, indeed! if you had had half
said to you that I have had, some one would have been dead before
this."

"Well, what do you want?"

"You are my friend; you have already given me a terrible proof
of it."

"Ah! my dear friend," said St. Luc, who believed Monsoreau dead
and buried, "do not thank me, it is not worth while; certainly
the thrust was a good one, and succeeded admirably, but it was
the king who showed it me, when he kept me here a prisoner at
the Louvre."

"Dear friend."

"Never mind Monsoreau; tell me about Diana. Was she pleased at
last? Does she pardon me? When will the wedding take place?"

"Oh! my dear friend, we must wait till Monsoreau is dead."

"What!" cried St. Luc, starting back as though he had put his
foot on a pointed nail.

"Yes; poppies are not such dangerous plants as you thought; he
did not die from his fall on them, but is alive and more furious
than ever."

"Really?"

"Yes, and he talks of nothing but vengeance, and of killing you
on the first occasion."

"And I have announced his death to everyone; he will find his
heirs in mourning. But he shall not give me the lie; I shall
meet him again, and if he escapes me a second time----"

"Calm yourself, my dear St. Luc; really, I am better off than
you would think; it is the duke whom he suspects, and of whom
he is jealous. I am his dear Bussy--his precious friend. That
is only natural, for it was that fool of a Remy who cured him.

"What an idiot he must have been!"

"He has an idea that, as an honest man and a doctor, it is his
duty to cure people. However, Monsoreau says he owes his life
to me, and confides his wife to my care."

"Ah! I understand that this makes you wait more patiently for
his death. However, I am quite thunderstruck at the news."

"But, now, my friend, let us leave Monsoreau."

"Yes, let us enjoy life while he is still ill; but once he is
well, I shall order myself a suit of mail, have new locks put
on my doors, and you must ask the Duc d'Anjou if his mother has
not given him some antidote against poison. Meanwhile, let us
amuse ourselves."

"Well, my dear friend, you see you have only rendered me half
a service."

"Do you wish me to finish it?"

"Yes, in another way."

"Speak."

"Are you great friends with those four gentlemen?"

"Ma foi! we are something like cats and dogs in the sun; as long
as we an get the heat, we agree, but if one of us took the warmth
from another, then I do not answer for the consequences."

"Well, will you go for me to M. Quelus, first?"

"Ah!"

"And ask him what day it will please him that I should cut his
throat, or he mine?"

"I will."

"You do not mind it?"

"Not the least in the world. I will go at once if you wish it."

"One moment; as you go, just call on M. Schomberg and make him
the same proposal."

"Schomberg too? Diable, how you go on! Well, as you wish."

"Then, my dear St. Luc, as you are so amiable, go also to M.
Maugiron, and ask him to join the party."

"What, three! Bussy, you cannot mean it. I hope that is all."

"No; from him go to D'Epernon."

"Four!"

"Even so, my dear friend; I need not recommend to a man like you
to proceed with courtesy and politeness towards these gentlemen.
Let the thing be done in gallant fashion."

"You shall be content, my friend. What are your conditions?"

"I make none; I accept theirs."

"Your arms?"

"What they like."

"The day, place, and hour?"

"Whatever suits them."

"But----"

"Oh! never mind such trifles, but do it quickly; I will walk
in the little garden of the Luxembourg; you will find me there
when you have executed your commission."

"You will wait, then?"

"Yes."

"It may be long."

"I have time."

We know how St. Luc found the four young men, and accompanied
them to Schomberg's house. St. Luc remained in the ante-chamber,
waiting until, according to the etiquette of the day, the four
young men were installed in the saloon ready to receive him.
Then an usher came and saluted St. Luc, who followed him to the
threshold of the saloon, where he announced M. d'Espinay de St.
Luc.

Schomberg then rose and saluted his visitor, who, to mark the
character of the visit, instead of returning it, put on his hat.
Schomberg then, turning towards Quelus, said,

"I have the honor to present to you M. Jacques de Levis, Comte
de Quelus."

The two gentlemen bowed, and then the same ceremony was gone
through with the others. This done, the four friends sat down,
but St. Luc remained standing and said to Quelus,

"M. le Comte, you have insulted M. le Comte Louis de Clermont
d'Amboise, Seigneur de Bussy, who presents to you his compliments,
and calls you to single combat on any day and hour, and with
such arms as may please you. Do you accept?"

"Certainly; M. de Bussy does me much honor."

"Your day and hour, M. le Comte?"

"To-morrow morning at seven o'clock."

"Your arms?"

"Rapier and dagger, if that suits M. de Bussy."

St. Luc bowed. Then he addressed the same questions to the others,
and received the same answers.

"If we all choose the same day and hour, M. de Bussy will be rather
embarrassed," said Schomberg.

"Certainly," replied St. Luc, "M. de Bussy may be embarrassed,
but he says that the circumstance would not be new to him, as
it has already happened at the Tournelles."

"And he would fight us all four?"

"All four."

"Separately?"

"Separately, or at once."

The four young men looked at each other; then Quelus, red with
anger, said:

"It is very fine of M. de Bussy, but however little we may be
worth, we can each do our own work; we will accept, therefore,
the count's proposal, fighting separately, or rather, which will
be still better, as we do not seek to assassinate a gallant man,
chance shall decide which of us shall fight M. de Bussy."

"And the three others?"

"Oh! M. de Bussy has too many friends, and we too many enemies,
for them to remain with folded arms. Do you agree to this,
gentlemen?"

"Yes!" cried all.

"If MM. Ribeirac, Antragues, and Livarot would join the party,
it would be complete."

"Gentlemen," said St. Luc, "I will transmit your desires to M.
de Bussy, and I believe I may promise that he is too courteous
not to agree to your wishes. It therefore only remains for me
to thank you in his name."

Then he took his leave, after throwing his purse to the four
lackeys, whom he found outside, to drink to their masters' healths.




CHAPTER LXXVII.

IN WHAT RESPECT M. DE ST. LUC WAS MORE CIVILIZED THAN M. DE BUSSY,
THE LESSONS WHICH HE GAVE HIM, AND THE USE WHICH M. DE BUSSY
MADE OF THEM.

St. Luc returned, proud of having executed his commission so
well. Bussy thanked him, but looked sad, which was not natural
to him.

"Have I done badly?" said St. Luc.

"Ma foi, my dear friend, I only regret you did not say, 'at once.'"

"Why! what is the hurry?"

"I wish to die as soon as possible."

St. Luc looked at him in astonishment.

"Die! at your age, with your name, and Diana!"

"Yes, I shall kill them, I know, but I shall receive some good
blow which will tranquilize me forever."

"What black ideas, Bussy!"

"A husband whom I thought dead, and who has returned to life;
a wife who can scarcely quit the bedside of the pretended dying
man. Not to see her, smile on her, touch her hand. Mon Dieu!----"

St. Luc interrupted him with a burst of laughter. "Oh!" cried
he, "the innocent man. Why, no lover can be more fortunate than
you."

"Prove that to me."

"You are the friend of M. de Monsoreau."

"Yes, I am ashamed to say, he calls me his friend."

"Well! be his friend."

"Oh! and abuse this title!"

"Is he really your friend?"

"He says so."

"No; for he makes you unhappy. Now the end of friendship is to
make one another happy. At least, so his majesty says, and he
is learned in friendship. So, if he makes you unhappy, he is not
your friend; therefore you may treat him either as a stranger,
and take his wife from him, or as an enemy, and kill him if he
murmurs."

"In fact, I hate him. But do you, not think he loves me?"

"Diable! Take away his wife and see."

"I must continue to be a man of honor."

"And let Madame de Monsoreau cure her husband both physically
and morally. For it is certain that if you get yourself killed,
she will attach herself to the only man who remains to her."

Bussy frowned.

"But," added St. Luc, "here is my wife; she always gives good
advice. She has been picking herself a bouquet in the gardens
of the queen-mother, and will be in a good humor. Listen to her;
she speaks gold."

Jeanne arrived radiant, full of happiness and fun. Bussy saluted
her in a friendly manner, and she held out her hand to him, saying,
with a smile, "How go on the love affairs?"

"They are dying."

"They are wounded and fainting; perhaps you can restore them,
Jeanne?"

"Let me see; show me the wound."

"In two words, this is it: M. de Bussy does not like smiling on
M. de Monsoreau, and he thinks of retiring."

"And leaving Diana to him?"

"Oh! madame, St. Luc does not tell you that I wish to die."

"Poor Diana!" murmured Jeanne, "decidedly men are ungrateful."

"Good! this is the conclusion my wife draws."

"I, ungrateful!" cried Bussy, "because I fear to render my love
vile, by practising a disgraceful hypocrisy?"

"Oh! monsieur, that is only a pretext. If you were really in
love, you would fear but one thing--not to be loved in return."

"But, madame, there are sacrifices----"

"Not another word. Confess that you love Diana no longer; it will
be more worthy of a gallant man."

Bussy grew pale.

"You do not dare to tell her; well, I will."

"Madame! madame!"

"You are rich, you men, with your sacrifices. And does she make
none? What! expose herself to be massacred by that tiger of a
Monsoreau, preserve her position only by employing a strength
of will of which Samson or Hannibal would have been incapable.
Oh! I swear, Diana is sublime, I could not do a quarter of what
she does every day."

"Thank you!" said St. Luc.

"And he hesitates!" continued she, "he does not fall on his knees
and say his mea culpa."

"You are right," said Bussy, "I am but a man, that is to say,
an imperfect creature, inferior to the most commonplace woman."

"It is lucky you are convinced of it."

"What do you order me?"

"To go at once and pay it visit----"

"To M. de Monsoreau?"

"Who speaks of him?--to Diana."

"But he never leaves her."

"When you went so often to see Madame de Barbezieux, had she
not always near her that great ape who bit you because he was
jealous?"

Bussy began to laugh, and St. Luc and Jeanne followed his example.

"Madame," then said Bussy, "I am going to M. de Monsoreau's house;
adieu."

He went there, and found the count in bed; he was delighted to
see him, and told him that Remy promised that his wound would
be cured in three weeks. Bussy recounted to him the commission
with which he had been charged, and his visit to the court.

"The duke has still projects on foot, has he not?"

"I believe so."

"Do not compromise yourself for that bad man; I know him: he is
perfidious, and will not hesitate to betray you."

"I know it."

"You are my friend, and I wish to put you on your guard."

"You must sleep after the dressing of your wound," said Remy.

"Yes, my dear doctor. My friend, take a turn in the garden with
Madame de Monsoreau."

"I am at your orders," replied Bussy.




CHAPTER LXXVIII.

THE PRECAUTIONS OF M. DE MONSOREAU.

St. Luc was right, and Jeanne was right, and Bussy soon acknowledged
it. As for Diana, she gave herself up to the two instincts that
Figaro recognizes as inborn in mankind, to love and to deceive.
M. de Monsoreau grew better and better. He had escaped from fever,
thanks to the application of cold water, that new remedy which
Providence had discovered to Ambrose Pare, when all at once he
received a great shock at hearing of the arrival in Paris of
the duke with the queen-mother. The day after his arrival, the
duke, under the pretext of asking after him, presented himself
at his hotel, and it was impossible to close his door against
a prince who showed so much interest in him. M. de Monsoreau
therefore was obliged to receive the prince, who was most amiable
to him and to his wife. As soon as he was gone, M. de Monsoreau
took Diana's arm, and in spite of Remy's remonstrances walked
three times round his armchair; and, from his satisfied air,
Diana was sure he was meditating on some project.

The next day the duke came again, and this time Monsoreau walked
round his room. That evening Diana warned Bussy that her husband
had certainly some project in his head. A few minutes after, when
Bussy and Monsoreau were alone, "When I think," said Monsoreau,
"that this prince, who smiles on me, is my mortal enemy, and
tried to have me assassinated by M. de St. Luc----"

"Oh, assassinated! take care, M. le Comte. St. Luc is a gentleman,
and you confess yourself that you provoked him, drew the sword
first, and received your wound in fair fight."

"Certainly; but it is not the less true that he obeyed the wishes
of M. d'Anjou."

"Listen! I know M. de St. Luc, and I can assure you he is devoted
to the king, and hates the duke. If your wound had come from
Antragues, Livarot, or Ribeirac, it might be so; but not from
St. Luc."

"You do not know," replied Monsoreau, obstinate in his opinion.
At last he was able to go down into the garden. "That will do,"
said he; "now we will move."

"Why move?" said Remy. "The air is good here, and there is plenty
of amusement."

"Too much; M. d'Anjou fatigues me with his visits, and he always
brings with him a crowd of gentlemen, and the noise of their
spurs destroys my nerves."

"But where are you going?"

"I have ordered them to get ready my little house at the Tournelles."

Bussy and Diana exchanged a look of loving remembrance.

"What, that little place?" cried Remy, imprudently.

"What! do you know it?"

"Who does not know the houses of the chief huntsman? particularly
I, who lived in the Rue Beautrellis."

"Yes, yes, I will go there. It is a fortress, and one can see
from the window, three hundred yards off, who is coming to visit
you, and avoid them if you like, particularly when you are well!"

Bussy bit his lips; he feared a time might come when Monsoreau
might avoid him. Diana thought of the time when she had seen
Bussy in that house, lying fainting on the bed.

"You cannot do it," said Remy.

"Why not, if you please, monsieur?"

"Because the chief huntsman of France must hold receptions--must
keep valets and equipages. Let him have a palace for his dogs,
if he likes, but not a dog-kennel for himself."

"It is true, but----"

"But I am the doctor of the mind as of the body; it is not your
residence here that displeases you."

"What then?"

"That of madame; therefore send her away."

"Separate?" cried Monsoreau, fixing on Diana a look, more of anger
than love.

"Then give up your place--send in your resignation. I believe
it would be wise; if you do not do your duty, you will displease
the king, and if you do----"

"I will do anything but quit the countess," said Monsoreau, with
closely-shut teeth. As he spoke, they heard in the courtyard a
noise of voices and horses' feet.

"The duke again!" cried he.

"Yes," said Remy.

Immediately after the prince entered, and Monsoreau saw his first
glance given to Diana. He brought to her, as a present, one of
those masterpieces, of which the artists of that day were in the
habit of producing two or three in the course of a lifetime. It
was a poniard, with a handle of chased gold. This handle was a
smelling-bottle, and on the blade a chase was carved with admirable
skill; horses, dogs, trees, game, and hunters, mingled together
in an harmonious pele-mele, on this blade of azure and gold.

"Let me see," cried Monsoreau, who feared there was a note hidden
in the handle.

The prince separated the two parts. "To you, who are a hunter," said
he, "I give the blade: to the countess, the handle. Good-morning,
Bussy, you are then a friend of the count's, now?"

Diana reddened, but Bussy said:

"Your highness forgets that you asked me to inquire after M. de
Monsoreau."

"It is true."

The prince sat down, and began to talk to Diana. In a few minutes
he said, "Count, it is dreadfully warm in your rooms. I see the
countess is stifling. I will give her my arm for a turn in the
garden."

The husband looked furious.

"Give me an arm," said he to Bussy, and he got up and followed
his wife.

"Ah!" said the duke, "it seems you are better."

"Yes, monseigneur, and I hope soon to be able to accompany Madame
de Monsoreau wherever she goes."

"Good; but meanwhile, do not fatigue yourself."

Monsoreau was obliged to sit down, but he kept them in view.

"Count," said he to Bussy, "will you be amiable enough to escort
Madame de Monsoreau this evening to my house at the Tournelles?"

"You cannot do that, monsieur," said Remy.

"Why not?"

"Because M. d'Anjou would never forgive you if you helped to play
him such a trick."

Bussy was about to cry, "What do I care?" but a glance from Remy
stopped him.

"Remy is right," said Monsoreau, "it would injure you; to-morrow
I will go myself."

"You will lose your place."

"It is possible; but I shall keep my wife."

The next day they went to the old house; Diana took her old room,
with the bed of white and gold damask. A corridor only separated
it from that of the count. Bussy tore his hair with rage.




CHAPTER LXXIX.

A VISIT TO THE HOUSE AT LES TOURNELLES.

The duke became more and more in love with Diana, as she seemed
always to escape him, and with his love for her, his hatred of
Monsoreau increased. On the other side he had not renounced his
political hopes, but had recommenced his underhand machinations.
The moment was favorable, for many wavering conspirators had
been encouraged by the kind of triumph which the weakness of
thy king, and the cunning of Catherine, had given to the duke;
however, he no longer confided his projects to Bussy, and showed
him only a hypocritical friendship. He was vaguely uneasy at
seeing him at Monsoreau's house, and envious of the confidence
that Monsoreau, so suspicious of himself, placed in him. He was
frightened also at the joy and happiness which shone in Diana's
face. He knew that flowers only bloom in the light of the sun,
and women in that of love. She was visibly happy, and this annoyed
him. Determined to use his power, both for love and vengeance,
he thought it would be absurd to be stayed in this purpose by
such ridiculous obstacles as the jealousy of a husband, and the
repugnance of a wife. One day he ordered his equipages, intending
to visit Monsoreau. He was told that he had moved to his house
in the Rue St. Antoine.

"Let us go there," said he to Bussy. Soon the place was in commotion
at the arrival of the twenty-four handsome cavaliers, each with
two lackeys, who formed the prince's suite. Both Bussy and the
prince knew the house well; they both went in, but while the
prince entered the room, Bussy remained on the staircase. It
resulted from this arrangement that the duke was received by
Monsoreau alone, while Bussy was received by Diana, while Gertrude
kept watch. Monsoreau, always pale, grew livid at sight of the
prince.

"Monseigneur, here! really it is too much honor for my poor house!"
cried he, with a visible irony.

The prince smiled. "Wherever a suffering friend goes, I follow
him," replied he. "How are you?"

"Oh, much better; I can already walk about, and in a week I shall
be quite well."

"Was it your doctor who prescribed for you the air of the Bastile?"
asked the prince, with the most innocent air possible.

"Yes, monseigneur."

"Did you not like the Rue des Petits-Peres?"

"No, monseigneur; I had too much company there--they made too
much noise."

"But you have no garden here."

"I did not like the garden."

The prince bit his lips. "Do you know, comte," said he, "that
many people are asking the king for your place?"

"On what pretext, monseigneur?"

"They say you are dead."

"Monseigneur, you can answer for it that I am not."

"I answer for nothing; you bury yourself as though you were dead."

It was Monsoreau's turn to bite his lips.

"Well, then, I must lose my place," said he.

"Really?"

"Yes; there are things I prefer to it."

"You are very disinterested."

"It is my character, monseigneur."

"Then of course you will not mind the king's knowing your
character?"

"Who will tell him?"

"Diable! if he asks me about you, I must repeat our conversation."

"Ma foi! monseigneur, if all they say in Paris were reported
to the king, his two ears would not be enough to listen with."

"What do they say at Paris, monsieur?" asked the prince sharply.

Monsoreau tried to calm himself. "How should a poor invalid, as
I am, know?" said he. "If the king is angry at seeing his work
badly done, he is wrong."

"How so?"

"Because, doubtless, my accident proceeds, to some extent, from
him."

"Explain yourself."

"M. de St. Luc, who wounded me, is a dear friend of the king's.
It was the king who taught him the thrust by which he wounded
me, and it might have been the king who prompted him."

"You are right; but still the king is the king."

"Until he is so no longer."

The duke trembled. "Is not Madame de Monsoreau here?" said he.

"Monseigneur, she is ill, or she would have come to present her
respects to you."

"Ill! poor woman! it must be grief at seeing you suffer."

"Yes, and the fatigue of moving."

"Let us hope it will be a short indisposition. You have so skilful
a doctor."

"Yes, that dear Remy----"

"Why, he is Bussy's doctor."

"He has lent him to me."

"You are, then, great friends?"

"He is my best, I might say my only, friend."

"Adieu, come!"

As the duke raised the tapestry, he fancied he saw the skirt
of a dress disappear into the next room, and immediately Bussy
appeared at his post in the middle of the corridor. Suspicion
grew stronger with the duke.

"We are going," said he to Bussy, who ran down-stairs without
replying; while the duke, left alone, tried to penetrate the
corridor where he had seen the silk dress vanish. But, turning,
he saw that Monsoreau had followed, and was standing at the door.

"Your highness mistakes your way," said he.

"True," said the duke, "thank you." And he went down with rage
in his heart. When he returned home, Aurilly glided into his
room.

"Well," said the duke, "I am baffled by the husband!"

"And, perhaps, also by the lover, monseigneur."

"What do you say?"

"The truth."

"Speak, then."

"I hope your highness will pardon me--it was in your service."

"I pardon you in advance. Go on."

"After your highness had gone up-stairs, I watched under a shed
in the courtyard."

"Ah! What did you see?"

"I saw a woman's dress; I saw this woman lean forward, and then
I heard the sound of along and tender kiss."

"But who was the man?"

"I cannot recognize arms."

"No, but you might gloves."

"Indeed, it seemed to me----"

"That you recognized them?"

"It was only a guess."

"Never mind."

"Well, monseigneur, they looked like the gloves of M. de Bussy."

"Buff, embroidered with gold, were they not?"

"Yes, monseigneur."

"Ah! Bussy! yes, it was Bussy. Oh, I was blind and yet not blind;
but I could not believe in so much audacity."

"But your highness must not believe it too lightly; might there
not have been a man hidden in her room?"

"Yes, doubtless, but Bussy, who was in the corridor, would have
seen him."

"That is true."

"And then the gloves----"

"Yes, and besides the kiss, I heard----"

"What?"

"Three words, 'Till to-morrow evening.'"

"Oh! mon Dieu!"

"So that, if you like, we can make sure."

"Aurilly, we will go."

"Your highness knows I am at your orders."

"Ah! Bussy, a traitor! Bussy, the honest man--Bussy, who does
not wish me to be King of France;" and the duke, smiling with
an infernal joy, dismissed Aurilly.




CHAPTER LXXX.

THE WATCHERS.

The duke kept Bussy near him all day, so as not to lose sight of
his movements. Bussy did not care, so that he had his evenings
free. At ten o'clock he wrapped himself in his cloak, and with
a rope ladder under his arm went towards the Bastile. The duke,
who did not know that he had a ladder, and could not believe in
any one walking alone at night through the streets of Paris,
thought Bussy would certainly call at his hotel for a horse and
a servant, and lost ten minutes in preparations. During those ten
minutes, Bussy, active and in love, had already gone three-fourths
of the distance. He was lucky, as brave people generally are, and
met with no accident by the way, and on arriving saw a light in
the windows. It was the signal agreed on between him and Diana.
He threw his ladder up to the balcony, it had six hooks to it,
and was sure to fasten itself somewhere. At the noise, Diana
put out her light and opened the window to fasten the ladder. The
thing was done in a moment. Diana looked all around; the street
seemed deserted. Then she signed to Bussy to mount, and he was up
in five seconds. The moment was happily chosen, for while he
got in at the window, M. de Monsoreau, after having listened
patiently fur a quarter of an hour at his wife's door, descended
the stairs painfully, leaning on the arm of a confidential valet,
and it so happened that he opened the street-door just as the
ladder was drawn up, and the window closed. He looked around,
but the streets were deserted.

"You have been badly informed," said he to the servant.

"No, monsieur, I have just left the Hotel d'Anjou, and they told
me that the duke had ordered two horses for this evening. But
perhaps it was not to come here."

"Where else should he go?" said Monsoreau, with a somber air.
He, like all jealous persons, thought the whole world had nothing
to do but to torment him.

"Perhaps I should have done better to stay in her room," murmured
he. "But they probably have signals for corresponding; she would
have warned him of my presence, and I should have learned nothing.
It is better to watch outside. Come, conduct me to the hiding-place,
whence you say one can see everything."

"Come, monsieur."

About twenty-five steps from the door was an enormous heap of stones
belonging to demolished houses, and serving for fortifications to
the children of the neighborhood when they played at battles.
In the midst was a space, which could contain two people. The
valet spread a cloak, on which Monsoreau sat down, while his
servant sat at his feet, with a loaded musket placed beside him.
Diana had prudently drawn her thick curtains, so that scarcely
a ray of light showed through, to betray that there was life
in this gloomy house.

They had been watching about ten minutes, when two horses appeared
at the end of the street. The valet pointed to them.

"I see," said Monsoreau.

The two men got off their horses, and tied them up at the corner
of the Hotel des Tournelles.

"Monseigneur," said Aurilly, "I believe we have arrived too late;
he must have gone straight from your hotel and must have entered."

"Perhaps so; but if we did not see him go in, we can see him come
out."

"Yes, but when?"

"When we please."

"Would it be too curious to ask how you mean to manage?"

"Nothing is more easy; we have but to knock at the door, and
ask after M. de Monsoreau. Our lover will be frightened at the
noise, and as you enter the house he will come out at the window,
and I, who am hidden outside, shall see him."

"And Monsoreau?"

"What can he say? I am his friend, and was uneasy about him, as
he looked so ill yesterday; nothing can be more simple."

"It is very ingenious, monseigneur."

"Do you hear what they say?" asked Monsoreau of his valet.

"No, monsieur, but we soon shall, for they are coming nearer."

"Monseigneur," said Aurilly, "here is a heap of stones which seems
made on purpose for us."

"Yes, but wait a moment, perhaps we can see through the opening
of the curtain." And they stood for some minutes trying to find
a place to peep through. Meanwhile, Monsoreau was boiling with
impatience, and his hand approached the musket.

"Oh! shall I suffer this?" murmured he, "shall I devour this
affront also? No, my patience is worn out. Mordieu! that I can
neither sleep, nor wake, nor even suffer quietly, because a shameful
caprice has lodged in the idle brain of this miserable prince.
No, I am not a complaisant valet; I am the Comte de Monsoreau,
and if he comes near, on my word, I will blow his brains out.
Light the match, Rene."

At this moment, just as the prince was about to seek his
hiding-place, leaving his companion to knock at the door, Aurilly
touched his arm.

"Well, monsieur, what is it?" asked the prince.

"Come away, monseigneur, come."

"Why so?"

"Do you not see something shining there to the left?"

"I see a spark among that heap of stones."

"It is the match of a musket, or arquebuse."

"Ah! who the devil can be in ambush there?"

"Some friend or servant of Bussy's. Let us go and make a detour,
and return another way. The servant will give the alarm, and
we shall see Bussy come out of the window."

"You are right; come;" and they went to their horses.

"They are going," said the valet.

"Yes. Did you recognize them?"

"They seemed to me to be the prince and Aurilly."

"Just so. But I shall soon be more sure still."

"What will monsieur do?"

"Come."

Meanwhile, the duke and Aurilly turned into the Rue St. Catherine,
intending to return by the boulevard of the Bastile.

Monsoreau went in, and ordered his litter.

What the duke had foreseen happened. At the noise that Monsoreau
made, Bussy took the alarm, the light was extinguished, the ladder
fixed, and Bussy, to his great regret, was obliged to fly, like
Romeo, but without having, like him, seen the sun rise and heard
the lark sing. Just as he touched the ground, and Diana had thrown
him the ladder, the duke and Aurilly arrived at the corner of
the Bastile. They saw a shadow suspended from Diana's window,
but this shadow disappeared almost instantaneously at the corner
of the Rue St. Paul.

"Monsieur," said the valet to Monsoreau, "we shall wake up the
household."

"What do I care?" cried Monsoreau, furiously. "I am master here,
I believe, and I have at least the right to do what M. d'Anjou
wished to do."

The litter was got ready, and, drawn by two stout horses, it was
soon at the Hotel d'Anjou.

The duke and Aurilly had so recently come in that their horses
were not unsaddled. Monsoreau, who had the entree, appeared on
the threshold just as the duke, after having thrown his hat on
a chair, was holding out his boots to a valet to pull off. A
servant, preceding him by some steps, announced M. de Monsoreau.
A thunderbolt breaking his windows, could not have astonished
the prince more.

"M. de Monsoreau!" cried he, with an uneasiness he could not hide.

"Myself, monseigneur," replied he, trying to repress his emotion,
but the effort he made over himself was so violent that his legs
failed him, and he fell on to a chair which stood near.

"But you will kill yourself, my dear friend," said the duke;
"you are so pale, you look as though you were going to faint."

"Oh, no; what I have to say to your highness is of too much
importance; I may faint afterwards."

"Speak, then, my dear comte."

"Not before your people, I suppose."

The duke dismissed everyone.

"Your highness has just come in?" said Monsoreau.

"As you see, comte."

"It is very imprudent of your highness to go by night in the street."

"Who told you I had been in the streets?"

"The dust on your clothes."

"M. de Monsoreau, have you another employment besides that of
chief huntsman?"

"Yes, that of spy, monseigneur; all the world follow that calling
now, more or less, and I, like the rest."

"And what does this profession bring you, monsieur?"

"Knowledge."

"It is curious."

"Very curious."

"Well, tell me what you have to say."

"I came for that."

"You permit me to sit down?" said the duke.

"No irony, monseigneur, towards an old and faithful servant,
who comes at this hour and in this state to do you a service.
If I sat down, on my honor, it was because I could not stand."

"A service! to do me a service?"

"Yes."

"Speak, then."

"Monseigneur, I come on the part of a great prince."

"From the king?"

"No; M. le Duc de Guise."

"Ah! that is quite a different thing. Approach, and speak low."




CHAPTER LXXXI.

HOW M. LE DUC D'ANJOU SIGNED, AND AFTER HAVING SIGNED, SPOKE.

There was a moment's silence. Then the duke said: "Well, M. le
Comte, what have you to say to me from the Duc de Guise?"

"Much, monseigneur."

"They have written to you?"

"No; the duke writes no more since that strange disappearance
of Nicholas David. They have come to Paris."

"MM. de Guise are at Paris?"

"Yes, monseigneur."

"I have not seen them."

"They are too prudent to expose themselves or your highness to
any risk."

"And I was not told!"

"I tell you now."

"What have they come for?"

"They come, monseigneur, to the rendezvous you gave them."

"That I gave them!"

"Doubtless; on the day when your highness was arrested you received
a letter from M. de Guise, and replied to it verbally, through
me, that they were to come to Paris from the thirty-first of
May to the second of June. It is now the thirty-first of May,
and if your highness has forgotten them, they have not forgotten
you."

Francois grew pale. So many events had passed since, that he
had forgotten the rendezvous. "It is true," said he, at length,
"but the relations which then existed between us exist no longer."

"If that be so, monseigneur, you would do well to tell them, for
I believe they think differently."

"How so?"

"You, perhaps, think yourself free as regards them, but they feel
bound to you."

"A snare, my dear comte, in which a man does not let himself be
taken twice."

"And where was monseigneur taken in a snare?"

"Where? at the Louvre, mordieu."

"Was it the fault of MM. de Guise?"

"I do not say so, but they never assisted me to escape."

"It would have been difficult; they were flying themselves."

"It is true."

"But when you were in Anjou, did they not charge me to tell you
that you could always count on them, as they on you, and that
the day you marched on Paris, they would do the same?"

"It is true, but I did not march on Paris."

"You are here."

"Yes; but as my brother's ally."

"Monseigneur will permit me to observe that he is more than the
ally of the Guises."

"What then?"

"Their accomplice."

The duke bit his lips.

"And you say they charged you to announce their arrival to me?"

"They did me that honour."

"But they did not tell you the motive of their return?"

"They told me all, knowing me to be the confidant of your highness."

"Then they have projects. What are they?"

"The same always."

"And they think them practicable?"

"They look upon them as certain."

"And these projects have for an aim----"

The duke stopped, not daring to finish.

"To make you King of France; yes, monseigneur."

The duke felt the flush of joy mount to his face.

"But," said he "is the moment favorable?"

"Your wisdom must decide."

"My wisdom?"

"Yes, the facts cannot be contradicted. The nomination of the
king as head of the League was only a comedy, quickly seen through
and appreciated. Now the reaction has commenced, and the entire
state is rising against the tyranny of the king and his creatures.
Sermons are a call to arms, and churches are places where they
curse the king, instead of praying to God. The army trembles
with impatience; the bourgeois league together; our emissaries
bring in nothing but signatures and new adherents to the League.
In a word, the king's reign touches on its close. Now, do you
renounce your former projects?"

The duke did not reply.

"Monseigneur knows that he may speak frankly to me."

"I think," said the duke, "that considering my brother has no
children, that his health is uncertain, and that after him the
crown will come naturally to me, there is no reason why I should
compromise my name and my dignity, in a useless struggle, and
try to take, with danger, what will come to me in due course."

"Your highness is in error; your brother's throne will only come
to you if you take it. MM. de Guise cannot be kings themselves,
but they will only allow to reign a king of their own making,
a king whom they substitute for the reigning one. They count
on your highness, but if you refuse, they will seek another."

"And who will dare to seat himself on the throne of Charlemagne?"

"A Bourbon instead of a Valois, monseigneur; a son of St, Louis,
instead of a son of St. Louis."

"The king of Navarre?"

"Why not? He is young, and brave,"

"He is a Huguenot."

"Was he not converted at the St. Bartholomew?"

"Yes, and he abjured afterwards."

"Oh, monseigneur, what he did for his wife, he will do again for
the crown."

"They think, then, that I will yield my rights without a struggle."

"The case is provided for."

"I will fight."

"They are men of war."

"I will put myself at the head of the League."

"They are the soul of it."

"I will join my brother."

"Your brother will be dead."

"I will call the kings of Europe to my aid."

"They will think twice before making war on a people."

"My party will stand by me."

"Your party, I believe, consists of M. de Bussy and myself."

"Then I am tied."

"Nearly so. You can do nothing without the Guises; with them,
everything. Say the word, and you are king."

The duke walked about for a few minutes, in great agitation, then
stopped, and said, "Go on, count."

"This, then, is the plan. In eight days the Fete Dieu will take
place, and the king meditates on that day a great procession
to the convents of Paris. There, the guards will remain at the
door, the king will stop before each altar, kneel down, and say
five paters and five aves."

"I know all that."

"He will go to St. Genevieve----"

"Yes."

"He will enter with a suite of five or six persons, and behind
them, the doors will be closed."

"And then----"

"Your highness knows the monks who will do the honors of the Abbey
to his majesty."

"They will be the same----"

"Who were there when your highness was crowned."

"They will dare to lay hands on the Lord's anointed?"

"Oh! to shave him, only."

"They will never dare to do that to a king."

"He will not be a king then."

"How so?"

"Have you never heard of a holy man who preaches sermons, and
is going to perform miracles?"

"Brother Gorenflot?"

"Just so."

"The one who wished to preach the League with his arquebuse on
his shoulder?"

"The same."

"Well! they will conduct the king into his cell; once there, he
will be asked to sign his abdication, then, when he has signed,
Madame de Montpensier will enter, scissors in hand. She wears
them now, hanging to her side; they are charming scissors, made
of gold, and admirably chased, to do him honor. You understand
the rest. We announced to the people that the king, experiencing
a holy repentance for his sins, has announced his intention of
never more leaving the convent. If there are any who doubt, M.
de Guise holds the army, M. le Cardinal the Church, and M. de
Mayenne the bourgeois; and with these three powers you can make
the people believe what you like."

"But they will accuse me of violence," said the duke.

"You need not be there."

"They will look on me as a usurper."

"Monseigneur forgets the abdication."

"The king will refuse."

"It seems that Brother Gorenflot is not only clever, but strong."

"The plan is then settled?"

"Quite."

"And they do not fear that I shall denounce it?"

"No, monseigneur; for in that case, they have another, not less
sure."

"Ah!"

"Yes."

"And this one?"

"I do not know; they thought me too much your friend to trust
me with it."

"Well, I yield, count. What must I do?"

"Approve."

"I do."

"Words are not enough."

"What then?"

"Writing."

"It is a folly to suppose I will ever consent to that."

"And why not?"

"If the conspiracy fail----"

"It is just in case it should, that they ask for your signature."

"Then they wish to shelter themselves behind my name?"

"Just so."

"Then I refuse."

"You cannot."

"I cannot refuse?"

"No."

"Are you mad?"

"To refuse is to betray."

"Let them think as they like; at all events I will choose my own
danger."

"Monseigneur, you choose badly."

"I will risk it," cried Francois, endeavoring to keep firm.

"For your own interest I advise you not to do so."

"But I shall compromise myself by signing."

"In refusing, you assassinate yourself."

Francois shuddered.

"They would dare?" said he.

"They would dare anything, monseigneur. The conspirators have
gone so far, that they must succeed at any cost."

The duke, with his usual indecision, felt terribly perplexed.

"I will sign," said he, at last.

"When?"

"To-morrow."

"No, monseigneur; if you sign, it must be at once."

"But M. de Guise must draw up the agreement."

"It is already drawn-here it is;" and Monsoreau drew a paper
from his pocket: it was a full adhesion to the scheme. The duke
read it though, growing more and more pale as he did so.

"Here is the pen, monseigneur."

"Then I must sign?"

"If you wish to do so; no one forces you."

"Yes, they do, since they menace me with assassination."

"I do not menace you, monseigneur--I only warn you."

"Give me the pen."

And, snatching it eagerly, he signed the paper. Monsoreau watched
him with an eye full of hatred and hope, and no sooner had the
duke finished than, exclaiming "Ah!" he seized the paper, buttoned
it into his doublet, and wrapped his cloak over it.

Francois looked at him with astonishment, for a flash of ferocious
joy played over his face.

"And now, monseigneur, be prudent," said he.

"How so?"

"Do not run about the streets with Aurilly, as you did just now."

"What do you mean?"

"I mean that, this evening, you pursued with your love a woman
whom her husband adores, and whom he is jealous of, enough to
kill any one who approaches her without permission."

"Is it of you and your wife that you are speaking?"

"Yes, monseigneur. I have married Diana de Meridor; she is mine,
and no one shall have her while I live--not even a prince; I
swear it by my name and on this poniard!" and he touched with
his poniard the breast of the prince, who started back.

"Monsieur, you menace me!" cried Francois, pale with rage.

"No, monseigneur; once more, I say, I only warn you."

"Of what?"

"That no one shall make love to my wife."

"And I warn you that you are too late, and that some one makes
love to her already."

Monsoreau uttered a terrible cry. "Is it you?" cried he.

"You are mad, count!"

"No, I am not; prove your words."

"Who was hidden this evening, twenty steps from your door, with
a musket?"

"I."

"Well, comte, during that time there was a man with your wife."

"You saw him go in?"

"I saw him come out."

"By the door?"

"No, by the window."

"Did you recognize him?"

"Yes."

"Name him, monseigneur, or I do not answer for myself."

The duke half smiled.

"M. le Comte," said he, "on my faith as a prince, on my soul,
within a week I will tell you his name."

"You swear it."

"I swear it."

"Well, monseigneur, you have a week; but----" said he, touching
the paper in his breast.

"Come back in eight days."

"Good! in eight days I shall have regained all my strength, ready
for vengeance."




CHAPTER LXXXII.

A PROMENADE AT THE TOURNELLES.

In course of time the Angevin gentlemen had returned to Paris,
although not with much confidence. They knew too well the king,
his brother, and mother, to hope that all would terminate in a
family embrace. They returned, therefore, timidly, and glided
into the town armed to the teeth, ready to fire on the least
suspicion, and drew their swords fifty times before the Hotel
d'Anjou on harmless bourgeois, who were guilty of no crime but
of looking at them. They presented themselves at the Louvre,
magnificently dressed in silk, velvet, and embroidery. Henri
III. would not receive them; they waited vainly in the gallery.
It was MM. Quelus, Maugiron, Schomberg, and D'Epernon who came to
announce this news to them, with great politeness, and expressing
all the regrets in the world.

"Ah, gentlemen," said Antragues, "the news is sad, but, coming
from your mouths, it loses half its bitterness."

"Gentlemen," said Schomberg, "you are the flower of grace and
courtesy. Would it please you to change the reception which you
have missed into a little promenade?"

"Ah! gentlemen, we were about to propose it."

"Where shall we go?" said Quelus.

"I know a charming place near the Bastile," said Schomberg.

"We follow you, go on."

Then the eight gentlemen went out, arm in arm, talking gaily
on different subjects, until Quelus said, "Here is a solitary
place, with a good footing."

"Ma foi, yes."

"Well! we thought that you would one day accompany us here to
meet M. de Bussy, who has invited us all here."

"It is true," said Bussy.

"Do you accept?" said Maugiron.

"Certainly; we rejoice at such an honor."

"That is well," said Schomberg; "shall we each choose an opponent?"

"No," said Bussy, "that is not fair; let us trust to chance,
and the first one that is free can join the others."

"Let us draw lots then," said Quelus.

"One moment," said Bussy, "first let us settle the rules of the
game."

"They are simple; we will fight till death ensues!"

"Yes, but how?"

"With sword and dagger."

"On foot?"

"Oh, yes! on horseback one's movements are not so free."

"Then, on foot."

"What day?"

"The soonest possible."

"No," said D'Epernon, "I have a thousand things to settle and
a will to make; I would rather wait five or six days."

"So be it."

"Then draw lots."

"One moment! divide the ground into four compartments, each for
a pair."

"Well said."

"I propose for number one, the long square between the chestnuts;
it is a fine place."

"Agreed."

"But the sun? one would be turned to the east."

"No," said Bussy, "that is not fair;" and he proposed a new position,
which was agreed to.

Schomberg and Ribeirac came first. They were the first pair;
Quelus and Antragues the second; then Livarot and Maugiron the
third. D'Epernon, who saw himself left to Bussy, grew very pale.

"Now, gentlemen," said Bussy, "until the day of the combat, let
us be friends. Will you accept a dinner at the Hotel Bussy?"

All agreed, and returned with Bussy to his hotel, where a sumptuous
banquet united them till morning.




CHAPTER LXXXIII.

IN WHICH CHICOT SLEEPS.

The movements of the young men had been remarked by the king
and Chicot. The king walked up and down, waiting impatiently for
his friends to return; but Chicot followed them at a distance, and
saw enough to be satisfied of their intentions. When he returned
to the house he found the king, walking up and down, muttering.

"Ah! my dear friend! do you know what has become of them?" cried
Henri.

"Whom? your minions?"

"Alas! yes, my poor friends."

"They must lie very low by this time."

"Have they been killed?" cried Henri; "are they dead?"

"Dead I fear----"

"And you laugh, wretch?"

"Oh! my son, dead drunk."

"Oh! Chicot, how you terrified me. But why do you calumniate
these gentlemen?"

"On the contrary, I praise them."

"Be serious, I beg; do you know that they went out with the
Angevins?"

"Of course, I know it."

"What was the result?"

"What I tell you; that they are dead drunk."

"But Bussy!"

"He is intoxicating them; he is a dangerous man."

"Chicot, for pity's sake----"

"Yes; Bussy has given a dinner to your friends; how do you like
that?"

"Impossible! They are sworn enemies."

"Have you good legs?"

"What do you mean?"

"Will you go to the river?"

"I would go to the end of the world to see such a thing."

"Well! go only to the Hotel Bussy."

"Will you accompany me?"

"Thank you, I have just come from there."

"But----"

"Oh! no; I, who have seen, do not need to be convinced. Go,
my son, go. You disquiet yourself about your friends; you first
pity them as if they were dead, and when you hear they are not
dead, you are uneasy still----"

"You are intolerable, M. Chicot."

"Would you have preferred that they should each have had seven
or eight wounds by a rapier?"

"I should like to be able to depend on my friends."

"Oh! ventre de biche, depend upon me; I am here, my son, only
feed me. I want pheasant and truffles."

Henri and his only friend went to bed early, the king still sighing.

The next day, at the petite levee of the king, MM. Quelus, Schomberg,
Maugiron, and D'Epernon presented themselves. Chicot still slept.
The king jumped from his bed in a fury, and tearing off the perfumed
mask from his face, cried, "Go out from here."

The young men looked at each other in wonder.

"But, sire, we wished to say to your majesty----"

"That you are no longer drunk, I suppose."

Chicot opened his eyes.

"Your majesty is in error," said Quelus, gravely.

"And yet I have not drunk the wine of Anjou."

"Oh! I understand," said Quelus, smiling.

"What?"

"If your majesty will remain alone with us, we will tell you."

"I hate drunkards and traitors."

"Sire," cried three of the gentlemen.

"Patience, gentlemen," said Quelus, "his majesty has slept badly,
and had unpleasant dreams. A few words will set all right."

"Speak then, but be brief."

"It is possible, sire, but difficult."

"Yes; one turns long round certain accusations."

"No, sire, we go straight to it," replied Quelus, looking again
at Chicot and the usher, as though to reiterate his request that
they might be left alone. The king signed to the usher to leave
the room, but Chicot said, "Never mind me, I sleep like a top," and
closing his eyes again, he began to snore with all his strength.




CHAPTER LXXXIV.

WHERE CHICOT WAKES.

"Your majesty," said Quelus, "knows only half the business, and
that the least interesting half. Assuredly, we have all dined
with M. de Bussy, and to the honor of his cook, be it said, dined
well. There was, above all, a certain wine from Austria or Hungary,
which really appeared to me marvelous. But during the repast,
or rather after it, we had the most serious and interesting
conversation concerning your majesty's affairs."

"You make the exordium very long."

"How talkative you are, Valois!" cried Chicot.

"Oh! oh! M. Gascon," said Henri, "if you do not sleep, you must
leave the room."

"Pardieu, it is you who keep me from sleeping, your tongue clacks
so fast."

Quelus, seeing it was impossible to speak seriously, shrugged
his shoulders, and rose in anger.

"We were speaking of grave matters," said he.

"Grave matters?"

"Yes," said D'Epernon, "if the lives of eight brave gentlemen
are worth the trouble of your majesty's attention."

"What does it mean, my son?" said Henri, placing his hand on Quelus's
shoulder.

"Well, sire, the result of our conversation was, that royalty
is menaced--weakened, that is to say, that all the world is
conspiring against you. Sire, you are a great king, but you have
no horizon before you; the nobility have raised so many barriers
before your eyes, that you can see nothing, if it be not the
still higher barriers that the people have raised. When, sire,
in battle one battalion places itself like a menacing wall before
another, what happens? Cowards look behind them, and seeing an
open space, they fly; the brave lower their heads and rush on."

"Well, then forward!" cried the king, "mordieu! am I not the
first gentleman in my kingdom? Were they not great battles that
I fought in my youth? Forward, then, gentlemen, and I will take
the lead; it is my custom in the melee."

"Oh! yes, sire," cried the young men, with one voice.

"And," said Quelus, "against these ramparts which are closing
round your majesty, four men will march, sure to be applauded
by you, and glorified by posterity."

"What do you mean, Quelus?" cried the king, with eyes in which
joy was tempered by solicitude; "who are these four men?"

"I, and these other gentlemen," replied Quelus, with pride; "we
devote ourselves, sire."

"To what?"

"To your safety."

"Against whom?"

"Against your enemies."

"Private enmities of young men?"

"Oh! sire, that is the expression of vulgar prejudice; speak like
a king, sire, not like a bourgeois. Do not profess to believe
that Maugiron detests Antragues, that Schomberg dislikes Livarot,
that D'Epernon is jealous of Bussy, and that I hate Ribeirac.
Oh! no. They are all young, and agreeable, and might love each
other like brothers: it is not, therefore, a rivalry between
man and man, which places the swords in our hands; it is the
quarrel of France with Anjou, the dispute as to the rights of
the populace against the prerogatives of the king. We present
ourselves as champions of royalty in those lists, where we shall
be met by the champions of the League, and we came to say, 'Bless
us, sire, smile on those who are going to die for you.' Your
blessing will, perhaps, give us the victory, your smile will make
us die happy."

Henri, overcome with emotion, opened his arms to Quelus and the
others. He united them in his heart; and it was not a spectacle
without interest, a picture without expression, but a scene in
which manly courage was allied to softer emotions, sanctified by
devotion. Chicot looked on, and his face, ordinarily indifferent
or sarcastic, was not the least noble and eloquent of the six.

"Ah!" cried the king, "I am proud to-day, not of being King of
France, but of being your friend; at the same time, as I know
my own interests best, I will not accept a sacrifice, of which
the result will deliver me up, if you fall, into the hands of
my enemies. France is enough to make war on Anjou; I know my
brother, the Guises, and the League, and have often conquered
more dangerous foes."

"But, sire, soldiers do not reason thus, they never take ill luck
into their calculations."

"Pardon me, Maugiron; a soldier may act blindly, but the captain
reflects."

"Reflect, then, sire, and let us act, who are only soldiers,"
said Schomberg: "besides, I know no ill luck; I am always
successful."

"Friend, friend," said the king, sadly, "I wish I could say as
much. It is true, you are but twenty."

"Sire," said Quelus, "on what day shall we meet MM. Bussy, Livarot,
Antragues and Ribeirac?"

"Never; I forbid it absolutely."

"Sire, excuse us, the rendezvous was arranged before the dinner,
words were said which cannot be retracted."

"Excuse me, monsieur," said Henri, "the king absolves from oaths
and promises by saying, 'I will, or I will not,' for the king
is all-powerful. Tell these gentlemen, therefore, that I have
menaced you with all my anger it you come to blows; and that
you may not doubt it yourselves, I swear to exile you, if----"

"Stop! sire; do not swear; because, if for such a cause we have
merited your anger, and this anger shows itself by exiling us,
we will go into exile with joy, because, being no longer on your
majesty's territories, we can then keep our promises, and meet
our adversaries."

"If these gentlemen approach you within range of an arquebuse,
I will throw them all into the Bastile."

"Sire, if you do so we will all go barefooted, and with cords
round our necks, to M. Testu, the governor, and pray to be
incarcerate with them."

"I will have them beheaded, then; I am king, I hope."

"We will cut our throats at the foot of their scaffold."

Henri kept silent for a long time; then, raising his eyes, said,
"God will surely bless a cause defended by such noble hearts."

"Yes, they are noble hearts," said Chicot, rising; "do what they
wish, and fix a day for their meeting. It is your duty, my son."

"Oh I mon Dieu! mon Dieu!" murmured Henri.

"Sire, we pray you," cried all the four gentlemen, bending their
knees.

"Well! so be it. Let us trust that God will give us the victory.
But let us prepare for the conflict in a Christian manner. If I
had time, I would send all your swords to Rome, that the Pope
might bless them. But we have the shrine of St. Genevieve, which
contains most precious relics: let us fast, and do penance, and
keep holy the great day of the Fete Dieu, and then the next day----"

"Ah! sire, thanks; that is in eight days!" cried the young men.

And they seized the hands of the king, who embraced them all once
more, and, going into his oratory, melted into tears.

"Our cartel is ready," said Quelus, "we have but to add the day
and hour. Write, Maugiron, the day after the Fete Dieu. Here
is a table."

"It is done," said Maugiron, "now who will carry the letter?"

"I will, if you please," said Chicot, approaching, "but I wish
to give you a piece of advice. His majesty speaks of fasts and
macerations. That is all very well after the combat, but before,
I prefer good nourishment, generous wine, and eight hours' sleep
every night."

"Bravo, Chicot!"

"Adieu, my little lions," replied the Gascon, "I go to the Hotel
Bussy." He went three steps and returned, and said, "Apropos, do
not quit the king during the Fete Dieu; do not go to the country,
any of you, but stay by the Louvre. Now, I will do your commission."




CHAPTER LXXXV.

THE FETE DIEU.

During these eight days events were preparing themselves, as a
tempest gathers in the heavens during the calm days of summer.
Monsoreau had an attack of fever for twenty-four hours, then
he rallied, and began to watch, himself; but as he discovered
no one, he became more than ever convinced of the hypocrisy of
the Duc d'Anjou, and of his bad intentions with regard to Diana.

Bussy did not discontinue his visits by day, but, warned by Remy
of this constant watchfulness, came no more at night to the window.

Chicot divided his time between the king, whom he watched like a
child, and his friend Gorenflot, whom he had persuaded to return
to his convent. He passed hours with him in his cell, always
bringing with him large bottles in his pocket, and the report
begin to be spread that Gorenflot had nearly persuaded him to
turn monk.

As for the king, he gave constant lessons in fencing to his friends,
teaching them new thrusts, and, above all, exercising D'Epernon, to
whom fate had given so skilful an adversary, that he was visibly
preoccupied by it.

Any one walking in the streets of Paris at certain hours, might
have met the strange monks, of whom our first chapters furnished
some description, and who resembled troopers more than monks.
Then, to complete the picture, we must add that the Hotel de Guise
had become at once mysterious and turbulent, the most peopled
within and the most deserted without that can be imagined; that
meetings were held every night in the great hall, and with all the
blinds and windows hermetically closed, and that these meetings
were preceded by dinners, to which none but men were invited,
and which were presided over by Madame de Montpensier. Of all
these meetings, however, important though they were, the police
suspected nothing. On the morning of the great day, the weather
was superb, and the flowers which filled the streets sent their
perfumes through the air. Chicot, who for the last fortnight had
slept in the king's room, woke him early; no one had yet entered
the royal chamber.

"Oh, Chicot!" cried the king, "you have woke me from one of the
sweetest dreams I ever had in my life."

"What was it, my son?"

"I dreamed that Quelus had run Antragues through the body, and
was swimming in the blood of his adversary. Let us go and pray
that my dream may be realized. Call, Chicot, call."

"What do you want?"

"My hair-cloth and my scourge."

"Would you not prefer a good breakfast?"

"Pagan, would you go to hear mass on the Fete Dieu with a full
stomach?"

"Even so."

"Call, Chicot."

"Patience; it is scarcely eight o'clock, and you will have plenty
of time to scourge yourself. Let us talk first. Converse with
your friend; you will not repent it, Valois, on the faith of
a Chicot."

"Well, talk; but be quick."

"How shall we divide our day, my son?"

"Into three parts."

"In honor of the Trinity; very well, let me hear these three parts."

"First, mass at St. Germain l'Auxerrois."

"Well?"

"Return to the Louvre, for a collation."

"Very good."

"Then, a procession of penitents through the streets, stopping
at the principal convente of Paris, beginning at the Jacobine
and finishing at St. Genevieve, where I have promised the prior
to stay till to-morrow in the cell of a saint, who will pray
for the success of our arms."

"I know him."

"The saint?"

"Yes, perfectly."

"So much the better; you shall accompany me, and we will pray
together."

"Yes; make yourself easy."

"Then dress yourself, and come."

"Wait a little."

"What for?"

"I have more to ask."

"Be quick, then, for time passes."

"What is the court to do?"

"Follow me."

"And your brother?"

"Will accompany me."

"Your guard?"

"The French guard wait for me at the Louvre, and the Swiss at
the door of the Abbey."

"That will do; now I know all."

"Then I may call?"

"Yes."

Henri struck on his gong.

"The ceremony will be magnificent," said Chicot.

"God will accept our homage, I hope."

"But tell me, Henri, before any one comes in, have you nothing
else to say to me?"

"No, I have given you all the details."

"Have you settled to sleep at St. Genevieve?"

"Doubtless."

"Well, my son, I do not like that part of the program."

"How so?"

"When we have dined I will tell you another plan that has occurred
to me."

"Well, I consent."

"Whether you consent or not, it will be all the same thing."

"What do you mean?"

"Hush! here are your valets."

As he spoke, the ushers opened the door, and the barber, perfumer,
and valet of the king entered, and commenced to execute upon his
majesty one of those toilets which we have described elsewhere.
When the king was dressing, the Duc d'Anjou was announced. He was
accompanied by M. de Monsoreau, D'Epernon, and Aurilly. Henri,
at the sight of Monsoreau, still pale and looking more frightful
than ever, could not repress a movement of surprise.

"You have been wounded, comte, have you not?"

"Yes, sire"

"At the chase, they told me."

"Yes sire."

"But you are better now?"

"I am well."

"Sire," said the duke, "would it please you that, after our
devotions, M, de Monsoreau should go and prepare a chase for us
in the woods of Compiegne?"

"But do you not know that to-morrow----"

He was going to say, "Four of your friends are to fight four of
mine;" but he stopped, for he remembered that it was a secret.

"I know nothing" said the duke; "but if your majesty will inform
me----"

"I meant that, as I am to pass the night at the Abbey of St.
Genevieve, I should perhaps not be ready for to-morrow; but let
the count go; if it be not to-morrow, it shall be the day after."

"You hear?" said the duke to Monsoreau.

"Yes monseigneur."

At this moment Quelus and Schomberg entered. The king received
them with open arms.

Monsoreau said softly to the duke, "You exile me, monseigneur."

"Is it not your duty to prepare the chase for the king?"

"I understand--this is the last of the eight days fixed by your
highness, and you prefer sending me to Compiegne to keeping your
promise."

"No, on the contrary; I keep my promise."

"Explain yourself."

"Your departure will be publicly known."

"Well?"

"Well, do not go, but hide near your house; then, believing you
gone, the man you wish to know will come; the rest concerns yourself:
I engage for no more."

"Ah! if that be so----"

"You have my word."

"I have better than that, I have your signature."

"Oh, yes, mordieu! I know that."

Aurilly touched D'Epernon's arm and said, "It is done; Bussy will
not fight to-morrow."

"Not fight!"

"I answer for it."

"Who will prevent it?"

"Never mind that."

"If it be so, my dear sorcerer, there are one thousand crowns
for you."

"Gentlemen," said the king, who had finished his toilet, "to St.
Germain l'Auxerrois."

"And from there to St. Genevieve?" asked the duke.

"Certainly," replied Henri, passing into the gallery where all
his court were waiting for him.




CHAPTER LXXXVI.

WHICH WILL ELUCIDATE THE PREVIOUS CHAPTER.

The evening before M. de Monsoreau had returned to his home from
the Hotel Guise, and had found Bussy there. Then, in his friendship
for this brave gentleman, he had taken him aside, and said:

"Will you permit me to give you a piece of advice?"

"Pray do."

"If I were you, I should leave Paris to-morrow."

"I! and why so?"

"All that I can tell you is, that your absence may save you from
great embarrassment."

"How so?"

"Are you ignorant of what is to take place to-morrow?"

"Completely."

"On your honor?"

"On my word as a gentleman."

"M. d'Anjou has confided nothing to you?"

"Nothing; M. d'Anjou confides nothing to me beyond what all the
world knows."

"Well! I, who am not the Duc d'Anjou, who love my friends for
their own sakes, and not for mine, I will tell you, my dear count,
that he is preparing for grave events to-morrow, and that the
parting of Guise and Anjou meditate a stroke which may end in
the fall of the king."

Bussy looked at M. de Monsoreau with suspicion, but his whole
manner expressed so much sincerity that it was impossible to
doubt him.

"Count," replied he, "my sword belongs to the Duc d'Anjou. The
king, against whom I have done nothing, hates me, and has never
let slip an occasion of doing or saying something wounding to
me; and to-morrow I tell you--but you alone, remember--I am about
to risk my life to humiliate Henri de Valois in the person of
his favorites."

"Then you are resolved to risk all the consequences of your adherence
to the duke?"

"Yes."

"You know where it may lead you?"

"I know where I will stop; whatever complaints I have against
the king, I will never lift a hand against him; but I will let
others do what they like, and I will follow M. d'Anjou to protect
him in case of need."

"My dear comte," said Monsoreau, "the Duc d'Anjou is perfidious
and a traitor; a coward, capable, from jealous or fear, of
sacrificing his most faithful servant--his most devoted friend;
abandon him, take a friend's counsel, pass the day in your little
house at Vincennes, go where you like, except to the procession
of the Fete Dieu."

"But why do you follow the duke yourself?"

"For reasons which concern my honor. I have need of him for a
little while longer."

"Well! that is like me; for things which concern my honor I must
follow the duke."

The Comte de Monsoreau pressed his hand, and they parted.

The next morning Monsoreau announced to his wife his approaching
departure for Compiegne, and gave all the necessary orders. Diana
heard the news with joy. She knew from her husband of the duel
which was arranged between Bussy and D'Epernon, but had no fear
for the result, and looked forward to it with pride. Bussy had
presented himself in the morning to the Duc d'Anjou, who, seeing
him so frank, loyal, and devoted, felt some remorse; but two
things combated this return of good feeling--firstly, the great
empire Bussy had over him, as every powerful mind has over a
weak one, and which annoyed him; and, secondly, the love of Bussy
for Diana, which awoke all the tortures of jealousy in his heart.
Monsoreau, it was true, inspired him with equal dislike and fear,
but he thought, "Either Bussy will accompany me and aid my triumph,
and then if I triumph, I do not care for Monsoreau, or Bussy will
abandon me, and then I owe him nothing, and I will abandon him in
return."

When they were in the church, the duke saw Remy enter, and going
up to his master, slide a note into his hand.

"It is from her," thought he; "she sends him word that her husband
is leaving Paris."

Bussy put the note into his hat, opened, and read it, and the
prince saw his face radiant with joy and love. The duke looked
round; if Monsoreau had been there, perhaps he would not have
had patience to wait till the evening to denounce Bussy.

The mass over, they returned to the Louvre, where a collation
waited for the king in his room, and for his gentlemen in the
gallery. On entering the Louvre, Bussy approached the duke.

"Pardon, monseigneur," said he, "but can I say two words to you?"

"Are you in a hurry?"

"Very much so."

"Will it not do during the procession? we shall walk side by side."

"Monseigneur must excuse me, but what I wished to ask is, that
I need not accompany you."

"Why so?"

"Monseigneur, to-morrow is a great day, and I would wish to retire
to-day to my little house at Vincennes."

"Then you do not join the procession with the king and court?"

"No, monseigneur, if you will excuse me."

"Will you not rejoin me at St. Genevieve?"

"Monseigneur, I wish to have the whole day to myself."

"But if anything should occur when I have need of my friends?"

"As monseigneur would only want me to draw my sword against my
king, it is a double reason for excusing myself," replied Bussy;
"my sword is engaged against M. d'Epernon."

Monsoreau had told the duke the night before that he might reckon
on Bussy; this change, therefore, must have been occasioned by
Diana's note.

"Then," said the duke, "you abandon your chief and master?"

"Monseigneur, he who is about to risk his life in a bloody duel,
as ours will be, has but one master, and it is to Him my last
devotions will be paid."

"You know that I am playing for a throne, and you leave me."

"Monseigneur, I have worked enough for you; I will work again
to-morrow, do not ask me for more than my life."

"It is well!" said the duke, in a hollow voice, "you are free;
go, M. de Bussy."

Bussy, without caring for the prince's evident anger, ran down
the staircase of the Louvre, and went rapidly to his own house.

The duke called Aurilly. "Well! he has condemned himself," said
he.

"Does he not follow you?"

"No."

"He goes to the rendezvous?"

"Yes."

"Then it is for this evening?"

"It is."

"Is M. de Monsoreau warned?"

"Of the rendezvous--yes; but not yet of the man."

"Then you have decided to sacrifice the count?"

"I have determined to revenge myself; I fear now but one thing."

"What is that?"

"That Monsoreau will trust to his strength, and that Bussy will
escape him."

"Reassure yourself, monseigneur."

"Why?"

"Is M. de Bussy irrevocably condemned?"

"Yes, mordieu! A man who dictates to me--who takes away from me
her whom I was seeking for--who is a sort of lion, of whom I am
less the master than the keeper--yes, Aurilly, he is condemned
without mercy."

"Well, then, be easy, for if he escape Monsoreau, he will not
escape from another."

"And who is that?"

"Does your highness order me to name him?"

"Yes, I do."

"It is M. d'Epernon."

"D'Epernon! who was to fight him to-morrow?"

"Yes, monseigneur."

"How is that?"

Aurilly was about to reply, when the duke was summoned; for the
king was at table, and had sent for his brother.

"You shall tell me during the procession," said the duke.

We will now tell our readers what had passed between Aurilly
and D'Epernon. They had long known each other, for Aurilly had
taught D'Epernon to play on the lute, and, as he was fond of
music, they were often together. He called upon Aurilly to tell
him of his approaching duel, which disquieted him not a little.
Bravery was never one of D'Epernon's prominent qualities, and
he looked on a duel with Bussy as certain death. When Aurilly
heard it, he told D'Epernon that Bussy practised fencing every
morning with an artist, lately arrived, who was said to have
borrowed from all nations their best points, until he had become
perfect. During this recital D'Epernon grew livid with terror.

"Ah! I am doomed," said he.

"Well?"

"But it is absurd to go out with a man who is sure to kill me."

"You should have thought of that before making the engagement."

"Peste! I will break the engagement."

"He is a fool who gives up his life willingly at twenty-five.
But, now I think of it----"

"Well."

"M. de Bussy is sure to kill me."

"I do not doubt it."

"Then it will not be a duel, but an assassination."

"Perhaps so."

"And if it be, it is lawful to prevent an assassination by----"

"By?"

"A murder."

"Doubtless."

"What prevents me, since he wishes to kill me, from killing him
first?"

"Oh, mon Dieu! nothing; I thought of that myself."

"It is only natural."

"Very natural."

"Only, instead of killing him with my own hands, I will leave
it to others."

"That is to say, you will hire assassins?"

"Ma foi! yes, like M. de Guise for St. Megrim."

"It will cost you dear."

"I will give three thousand crowns."

"You will only get six men for that, when they know who they have
to deal with."

"Are not six enough?"

"M. de Bussy would kill four before they touched him. Do you remember
the fight in the Rue St. Antoine?"

"I will give six thousand; if I do the thing, I will take care
he does not escape."

"Have you your men?"

"Oh, there are plenty of unoccupied men-soldiers of fortune."

"Very well; but take care."

"Of what?"

"If they fail they will denounce you."

"I have the king to protect me."

"That will not hinder M. de Bussy from killing you."

"That is true."

"Should you like an auxiliary?"

"I should like anything which would aid me to get rid of him."

"Well, a certain enemy of your enemy is jealous."

"And he is now laying a snare for him?"

"Ah!"

"Well?"

"But he wants money; with your six thousand crowns he will take
care of your affair as well as his own. You do not wish the honor.
of the thing to be yours, I suppose?"

"Mon Dieu! no; I only ask to remain in obscurity."

"Send your men, and he will use them."

"But I must know who it is."

"I will show you in the morning."

"Where?"

"At the Louvre."

"Then he is noble?"

"Yes:"

"Aurilly, you shall have the six thousand crowns."

"Then it is settled?"

"Irrevocably."

"At the Louvre, then?"

"Yes, at the Louvre."

We have seen in the preceding chapter how Aurilly said to D'Epernon,
"Be easy, Bussy will not fight to-morrow."




CHAPTER LXXXVII.

THE PROCESSION.

As soon as the collation was over, the king had entered his room
with Chicot, to put on his penitent's robe and had come out an
instant after, with bare feet, a cord round his waist, and his hood
over his face; the courtiers had made the same toilet. The weather
was magnificent, and the pavements were strewn with flowers; an
immense crowd lined the roads to the four places where the king
was to stop. The clergy of St. Germain led the procession, and
the Archbishop of Paris followed, carrying the holy sacrament;
between them walked young boys, shaking censers, and young girls
scattering roses. Then came the king, followed by his four friends,
barefooted and frocked like himself.

The Duc d'Anjou followed in his ordinary dress, accompanied by
his Angevins. Next came the principal courtiers, and then the
bourgeois. It was one o'clock when they left the Louvre. Crillon
and the French guards were about to follow, but the king signed
to them to remain. It was near six in the evening before they
arrived before the old abbey, where they saw the prior and the
monks drawn up on the threshold to wait for his majesty. The
Duc d'Anjou, a little before, had pleaded great fatigue, and
had asked leave to retire to his hotel, which had been granted
to him. His gentlemen had retired with him, as if to proclaim
that they followed the duke and not the king, besides which,
they did not wish to fatigue themselves before the morrow. At
the door of the abbey the king dismissed his four favorites,
that they also might take some repose. The archbishop also, who
had eaten nothing since morning, was dropping with fatigue, so
the king took pity on him and on the other priests and dismissed
them all. Then, turning to the prior, Joseph Foulon, "Here I am,
my father," said he; "I come, sinner as I am, to seek repose in
your solitude."

The prior bowed, and the royal penitent mounted the steps of
the abbey, striking his breast at each step, and the door was
immediately closed behind him.

"We will first," said the prior, "conduct your majesty into the
crypt, which we have ornamented in our best manner to do honor
to the King of heaven and earth."

No sooner had the king passed through the somber arcade, lined
with monks, and turned the corner which led to the chapel, than
twenty hoods were thrown into the air, and eyes were seen brilliant
with joy and triumph. Certainly, they were not monkish or peaceful
faces displayed, but bristling mustaches and embrowned skins, many
scarred by wounds, and by the side of the proudest of all, who
displayed the most celebrated scar, stood a woman covered with
a frock, and looking triumphant and happy. This woman, shaking
a pair of golden scissors which hung by her side, cried:

"Ah! my brothers, at last we have the Valois!"

"Ma foi, sister, I believe so."

"Not yet," murmured the cardinal.

"How so?"

"Shall we have enough bourgeois guards to make head against Crillon
and his guards?"

"We have better than bourgeois guards; and, believe me, there
will not be a musket-shot exchanged."

"How so?" said the duchess. "I should have liked a little
disturbance."

"Well, sister, you will be deprived of it. When the king is taken
he will cry out, but no one will answer; then, by persuasion or
by violence, but without showing ourselves, we shall make him
sign his abdication. The news will soon spread through the city,
and dispose in our favor both the bourgeois and the troops."

"The plan is good, and cannot fail," said the duchess. "It is
rather brutal," said the Duc de Guise; "besides which, the king
will refuse to sign the abdication. He is brave, and will rather
die."

"Let him die, then."

"Not so," replied the duke, firmly. "I will mount the throne of
a prince who abdicates and is despised, but not of an assassinated
man who is pitied. Besides, in your plans you forget M. le Duc
d'Anjou, who will claim the crown."

"Let him claim, mordieu!" said Mayenne; "he shall be comprised
in his brother's act of abdication. He is in connection with
the Huguenots, and is unworthy to reign."

"Are you sure of that?"

"Pardieu! did he not escape from the Louvre by the aid of the
King of Navarre?"

"Well?"

"Then another clause in favor of our house shall follow; this
clause shall make you lieutenant-general of the kingdom, from
which to the throne is only a step."

"Yes, yes," said the cardinal, "all that is settled; but it is
probable that the French guards, to make sure that the abdication
is a genuine one, and above all, a voluntary one, will insist
upon seeing the king, and will force the gates of the abbey if
they are not admitted. Crillon does not understand joking, and
he is just the man to say to the king, 'Sire, your life is in
danger; but, before everything, let us save our honor.'"

"The general has taken his precautions. If it be necessary to
sustain a siege, we have here eighty gentlemen, and I have
distributed arms to a hundred monks. We could hold out for a
month against the army; besides, in case of danger, we have the
cave to fly to with our prey."

"What is the Duc d'Anjou doing?"

"In the hour of danger he has failed, as usual. He has gone home,
no doubt, waiting for news of us, through Bussy or Monsoreau."

"Mon Dieu! he should have been here; not at home."

"You are wrong, brother," said the cardinal; "the people and
the nobles would have seen in it a snare to entrap the family.
As you said just now, we must, above all things, avoid playing
the part of usurper. We must inherit. By leaving the Duc d'Anjou
free, and the queen-mother independent, no one will have anything
to accuse us of. If we acted otherwise, we should have against
us Bussy, and a hundred other dangerous swords."

"Bah! Bussy is going to fight against the king's minions."

"Pardieu! he will kill them, and then he will join us," said
the Duc de Guise; "he is a superior man, and one whom I much
esteem, and I will make him general of the army in Italy, where
war is sure to break out."

"And I," said the duchess, "if I become a widow, will marry him."

"Who is near the king?" asked the duke.

"The prior and Brother Gorenflot."

"Is he in the cell?"

"Oh no! he will look first at the crypt and the relics."

At this moment a bell sounded.

"The king is returning," said the Duc de Guise; "let us become
monks again." And immediately the hoods covered ardent eyes and
speaking scars, and twenty or thirty monks, conducted by the
three brothers, went towards the crypt.




CHAPTER LXXXVIII.

CHICOT THE FIRST.

The king visited the crypt, kissed the relics-often striking
his breast, and murmuring the most doleful psalms. At last the
prior said, "Sire, will it please you now to depose your earthly
crown at the feet of the eternal king?"

"Let us go!" said the king.

They arrived at the cell, on the threshold of which stood Gorenflot,
his eyes brilliant as carbuncles.

Henri entered. "Hic portus salutis!" murmured he.

"Yes," replied Foulon.

"Leave us!" said Gorenflot, with a majestic gesture; and immediately
the door shut, and they were left alone.

"Here you are, then, Herod! pagan! Nebuchadnezzar!" cried Gorenflot,
suddenly.

"Is it to me you speak, my brother?" cried the king, in surprise.

"Yes, to you. Can one accuse you of anything so bad, that it is
not true?"

"My brother!"

"Bah! you have no brother here. I have long been meditating a
discourse, and now you shall have it. I divide it into three
heads. First, you are a tyrant; second, you are a satyr; third,
you are dethroned."

"Dethroned!"

"Neither more or less. This abbey is not like Poland, and you
cannot fly."

"Ah! a snare!"

"Oh, Valois, learn that a king is but a man."

"You are violent, my brother."

"Pardieu! do you think we imprison you to flatter you?"

"You abuse your religious calling."

"There is no religion."

"Oh, you are a saint, and say such things!"

"I have said it."

"You speak dreadfully, my brother."

"Come, no preaching; are you ready?"

"To do what?"

"To resign your crown; I am charged to demand it of you."

"You are committing a mortal sin."

"Oh! I have right of absolution, and I absolve myself in advance.
Come, renounce, Brother Valois."

"Renounce what?"

"The throne of France."

"Rather death!"

"Oh! then you shall die! Here is the prior returning. Decide!"

"I have my guards--my friends; they will defend me."

"Yes, but you will be killed first."

"Leave me at least a little time for reflection."

"Not an instant!"

"Your zeal carries you away, brother," said the prior, opening
the door; and saying to the king, "Your request is granted,"
he shut it again.

Henri fell into a profound reverie. "I accept the sacrifice,"
he said, after the lapse of ten minutes.

"It is done--he accepts!" cried Gorenflot.

The king heard a murmur of joy and surprise.

"Read him the act," said a voice, and a monk passed a paper to
Gorenflot.

Gorenflot read it to the king, who listened with his head buried
in his hands.

"If I refuse to sign?" cried he, shedding tears.

"It will be doubly your ruin," said the Duc de Guise, from under
his hood. "Look on yourself as dead to the world, and do not
force your subjects to shed the blood of a man who has been their
king."

"I will not be forced."

"I feared so," said the duke to his sister. Then, turning to his
brother, "Let everyone arm and prepare," said he.

"For what?" cried the king, in a miserable tone.

"For anything."

The king's despair redoubled.

"Corbleu!" cried Gorenflot, "I hated you before, Valois, but now
I despise you! Sign, or you shall perish by my hand!"

"Have patience," said the king; "let me pray to my divine Master
for resignation."

"He wishes to reflect again," said Gorenflot.

"Give him till midnight," said the cardinal.

"Thanks, charitable Christian!" cried the king:

"His brain is weak," said the duke; "we serve France by dethroning
him."

"I shall have great pleasure in clipping him!" said the duchess.

Suddenly a noise was heard outside, and soon they distinguished
blows struck on the door of the abbey, and Mayenne went to see
what it was. "My brothers," said he, "there is a troop of armed
men outside."

"They have come to seek him," said the duchess.

"The more reason that he should sign quickly."

"Sign, Valois, sign!" roared Gorenflot.

"You gave me till midnight," said the king, piteously.

"Ah! you hoped to be rescued."

"He shall die if he does not sign!" cried the duchess. Gorenflot
offered him the pen. The noise outside redoubled.

"A new troop!" cried a monk; "they are surrounding the abbey!"

"The Swiss," cried Foulon, "are advancing on the right!"

"Well, we will defend ourselves; with such a hostage in our hands,
we need not surrender."

"He has signed!" cried Gorenflot, tearing the paper from Henri,
who buried his face in his hands.

"Then you are king!" cried the cardinal to the duke; "take the
precious paper."

The king overturned the little lamp which alone lighted the scene,
but the duke already held the parchment.

"What shall we do?" said a monk. "Here is Crillon, with his guards,
threatening to break in the doors!"

"In the king's name!" cried the powerful voice of Crillon.

"There is no king!" cried Gorenflot through the window.

"Who says that?" cried Crillon.

"I! I!"

"Break in the doors, Monsieur Crillon!" said, from outside, a
voice which made the hair of all the monks, real and pretended,
stand on end.

"Yes, sire," replied Crillon, giving a tremendous blow with a
hatchet on the door.

"What do you want?" said the prior, going to the window.

"Ah! it is you, M. Foulon," replied the same voice, "I want my
jester, who is in one of your cells. I want Chicot, I am ennuye
at the Louvre."

"And I have been much amused, my son," said Chicot, throwing
off his hood, and pushing his way through the crowd of monks,
who recoiled, with a cry of terror.

At this moment the Duc de Guise, advancing to a lamp, read the
signature obtained with so much labor. It was "Chicot I."

"Chicot!" cried he; "thousand devils!"

"Let us fly!" said the cardinal, "we are lost."

"Ah!" cried Chicot, turning to Gorenflot, who was nearly fainting,
and he began to strike him with the cord he had round his waist.




CHAPTER LXXXIX.

INTEREST AND CAPITAL.

As the king spoke and the conspirators listened, they passed
from astonishment to terror. Chicot I. relinquished his role
of apparent terror, threw back his hood, crossed his arms, and,
while Gorenflot fled at his utmost speed, sustained, firm and
smiling, the first shock. It was a terrible moment, for the
gentlemen, furious at the mystification of which they had been
the dupes, advanced menacingly on the Gascon. But this unarmed
man, his breast covered only by his arms--this laughing face,
stopped them still more than the remonstrance of the cardinal,
who said to them that Chicot's death could serve no end, but,
on the contrary, would be terribly avenged by the king, who was
the jester's accomplice in this scene of terrible buffoonery.

The result was, that daggers and rapiers were lowered before Chicot,
who continued to laugh in their faces.

However, the king's menaces and Crillon's blows became more vehement,
and it was evident that the door could not long resist such an
attack. Thus, after a moment's deliberation, the Duc de Guise
gave the order for retreat. This order made Chicot smile, for,
during his nights with Gorenflot, he had examined the cave and
found out the door, of which he had informed the king, who had
placed there Torquenot, lieutenant of the Swiss guards. It was
then evident that the leaguers, one after another, were about
to throw themselves into the trap. The cardinal made off first,
followed by about twenty gentlemen. Then Chicot saw the duke
pass with about the same number, and afterwards Mayenne. When
Chicot saw him go he laughed outright. Ten minutes passed, during
which he listened earnestly, thinking to hear the noise of the
leaguers sent back into the cave, but to his astonishment, the
sound continued to go further and further off. His laugh began to
change into oaths. Time passed, and the leaguers did not return;
had they seen that the door was guarded and found another way
out? Chicot was about to rush from the cell, when all at once
the door was obstructed by a mass which fell at his feet, and
began to tear its hair.

"Ah! wretch that I am!" cried the monk. "Oh! my good M. Chicot,
pardon me, pardon me!"

How did Gorenflot, who went first, return now alone? was the question
that presented itself to Chicot's mind.

"Oh! my good M. Chicot!" he continued to cry, "pardon your unworthy
friend, who repents at your knees."

"But how is it you have not fled with the others?"

"Because the Lord in His anger has struck me with obesity, and
I could not pass where the others did. Oh! unlucky stomach! Oh!
miserable paunch!" cried the monk, striking with his two hands
the part he apostrophized. "Ah! why am not I thin like you, M.
Chicot?"

Chicot understood nothing of the lamentations of the monk.

"But the others are flying, then?" cried he, in a voice of thunder.

"Pardieu! what should they do? Wait to be hung? Oh! unlucky paunch!"

"Silence, and answer me."

"Interrogate me, M. Chicot; you have the right."

"How are the others escaping?"

"As fast as they can."

"So I imagine; but where?"

"By the hole."

"Mordieu! what hole?"

"The hole in the cemetery cellar."

"Is that what you call the cave?"

"Oh! no; the door of that was guarded outside. The great cardinal,
just as he was about to open it, heard a Swiss say, 'Mich dwistel,'
which means, 'I am thirsty.'"

"Ventre de biche! so then they took another way?"

"Yes, dear M. Chicot, they are getting out through the cellar."

"How does that run?"

"From the crypt to the Porte St. Jacques."

"You lie; I should have seen them repass before this cell."

"No, dear M. Chicot; they thought they had not time for that,
so they are creeping out through the air-hole."

"What hole?"

"One which looks into the garden, and serves to light the cellar."

"So that you----"

"I was too big, and could not pass, and they drew me back by my
legs, because I intercepted the way for the others."

"Then he who is bigger than you?"

"He! who?"

"Oh! Holy Virgin, I promise you a dozen wax candles, if he also
cannot pass."

"M. Chicot!"

"Get up."

The monk raised himself from the ground as quickly as he could.

"Now lead me to the hole."

"Where you wish."

"Go on, then, wretch."

Gorenflot went on as fast as he was able, while Chicot indulged
himself by giving him a few blows with the cord. They traversed
the corridor, and descended into the garden.

"Here! this way," said Gorenflot.

"Hold your tongue, and go on."

"There it is," and exhausted by his efforts, the monk sank on the
grass, while Chicot, hearing groans, advanced, and saw something
protruding through the hole. By the side of this something lay
a frock and a sword. It was evident that the individual in the
hole had taken off successively all the loose clothing which
increased his size; and yet, like Gorenflot, he was making useless
efforts to get through.

"Mordieu! ventrebleu! sangdien!" cried a stifled voice. "I would
rather pass through the midst of the guards. Do not pull so hard,
my friends; I shall come through gradually; I feel that I advance,
not quickly, it is true, but I do advance."

"Ventre de biche!" murmured Chicot, "it is M. de Mayenne. Holy
Virgin, you have gained your candles."

And he made a noise with his feet like some one running fast.

"They are coming," cried several voices from inside.

"All!" cried Chicot, as if out of breath, "it is you, miserable
monk!"

"Say nothing, monseigneur!" murmured the voices, "he takes you
for Gorenflot."

"Ah! it is you, heavy mass--pondus immobile; it is you, indigesta
moles!"

And at each apostrophe, Chicot, arrived at last at his desired
vengeance, let fall the cord with all the weight of his arm on
the body before him.

"Silence!" whispered the voices again; "he takes you for Gorenflot."

Mayenne only uttered groans, and made immense efforts to get through.

"Ah! conspirator!" cried Chicot again; "ah! unworthy monk, this
is for your drunkenness, this for idleness, this for anger, this
for greediness, and this for all the vices you have."

"M. Chicot, have pity," whispered Gorenflot.

"And here, traitor, this is for your treason," continued Chicot.

"Ah! why did it not please God to substitute for your vulgar
carcass the high and mighty shoulders of the Duc de Mayenue,
to whom I owe a volley of blows, the interest of which has been
accumulating for seven years!"

"Chicot!" cried the duke.

"Yes, Chicot, unworthy servant of the king, who wishes he had
the hundred arms of Briareus for this occasion."

And he redoubled his blows with such violence, that the sufferer,
making a tremendous effort, pushed himself through, and fell
torn and bleeding into the arms of his friends. Chicot's last
blow fell into empty space. He turned, and saw that the true
Gorenflot had fainted with terror.




CHAPTER XC.

WHAT WAS PASSING NEAR THE BASTILE WHILE CHICOT WAS PAYING HIS
DEBT TO Y. DE MAYENNE.

It was eleven at night, and the Duc d'Anjou was waiting impatiently
at home for a messenger from the Duc le Guise. He walked restlessly
up and down, looking every minute at the clock. All at once he
heard a horse in the courtyard, and thinking it was the messenger,
he ran to the window, but it was a groom leading up and down a
horse which was waiting for its master, who almost immediately
came out. It was Bussy, who, as captain of the duke's guards,
came to give the password for the night. The duke, seeing this
handsome and brave young man, of whom he had never had reason
to complain, experienced an instant's remorse, but on his face
he read so much joy, hope, and happiness, that all his jealousy
returned. However, Bussy, ignorant that the duke was watching
him, jumped into his saddle and rode off to his own hotel, where
he gave his horse to the groom. There he saw Remy.

"Ah! you Remy?"

"Myself, monsieur."

"Not yet in bed?"

"I have just come in. Indeed, since I have no longer a patient,
it seems to me that the days have forty-eight hours."

"Are you ennuye?"

"I fear so."

"Then Gertrude is abandoned?"

"Perfectly."

"You grew tired?"

"Of being beaten. That was how her love showed itself."

"And does your heart not speak for her to-night?"

"Why to-night?"

"Because I would have taken you with me."

"To the Bastile?"

"Yes."

"You are going there?"

"Yes."

"And Monsoreau?"

"Is at Compiegne, preparing a chase for the king."

"Are you sure, monsieur?"

"The order was given publicly this morning."

"Ah, well; Jourdain, my sword."

"You have changed your mind?"

"I will accompany you to the door, for two reasons."

"What are they?"

"Firstly, lest you should meet any enemies." Bussy smiled.

"Oh! mon Dieu, I know you fear no one, and that Remy the doctor
is but a poor companion; still, two men are not so likely to be
attacked as one. Secondly, because I have a great deal of good
advice to give you."

"Come, my dear Remy, come. We will speak of her; and next to
the pleasure of seeing the woman you love, I know none greater
than talking of her."

Bussy then took the arm of the young doctor, and they set off. Remy
on the way tried hard to induce Bussy to return early, insisting
that he would be more fit for his duel on the morrow.

Bussy smiled. "Fear nothing," said he.

"Ah! my dear master, to-morrow you ought to fight like Hercules
against Antaus--like Theseus against the Minotaur--like Bayard--like
something Homeric, gigantic, impossible; I wish people to speak
of it in future times as the combat, par excellence, and in which
you had not even received a scratch."

"Be easy, my dear Remy, you shall see wonders. This morning I
put swords in the hands of four fencers, who during eight minutes
could not touch me once, while I tore their doublets to pieces."

So conversing, they arrived in the Rue St. Antoine.

"Adieu! here we are," said Bussy.

"Shall I wait for you?"

"Why?"

"To make sure that you will return before two o'clock, and have
at least five or six hours' sleep before your duel."

"If I give you my word?"

"Oh! that will be enough; Bussy's word is never doubted."

"You have it then."

"Then, adieu, monsieur."

"Adieu, Remy."

Remy watched, and saw Bussy enter, not this time by the window,
but boldly through the door, which Gertrude opened for him. Then
Remy turned to go home; but he had only gone a few steps, when
he saw coming towards him five armed men, wrapped in cloaks.
When they arrived about ten yards from him, they said good night
to each other, and four went off in different directions, while
the fifth remained stationary.

"M. de St. Luc!" said Remy.

"Remy!"

"Remy, in person. Is it an indiscretion to ask what your lordship
does at this hour so far from the Louvre?"

"Ma foi! I am examining, by the king's order, the physiognomy
of the city. He said to me, 'St. Luc, walk about the streets of
Paris, and if you hear any one say I have abdicated, contradict
him.'"

"And have you heard it?"

"Nowhere; and as it is just midnight, and I have met no one but
M. de Monsoreau, I have dismissed my friends, and am about to
return."

"M. de Monsoreau?"

"Yes."

"You met him?"

"With a troop of armed men; ten or twelve at least."

"Impossible!"

"Why so?"

"He ought to be at Compiegne."

"He ought to be, but he is not."

"But the king's order?"

"Bah! who obeys the king?"

"Did he know you?"

"I believe so."

"You were but five?"

"My four friends and I."

"And he did not attack you?"

"On the contrary, he avoided me, which astonished me, as on seeing
him, I expected a terrible battle."

"Where was he going?"

"To the Rue de la Tixanderie."

"Ah! mon Dieu!"

"What?"

"M. de St. Luc, a great misfortune is about to happen."

"To whom?"

"To M. de Bussy."

"Bussy! speak, Remy; I am his friend, you know."

"Oh! M. de Bussy thought him at Compiegne."

"Well?"

"And, profiting by his absence, is with Madame de Monsoreau."

"Ah!"

"Do you not see? he has had suspicions, and has feigned to depart,
that he might appear unexpectedly."

"Ah! it is the Duc d'Anjou's doing, I believe. Have you good lungs,
Remy"

"Corbleu! like a blacksmith's bellows."

"Well! let us run. You know the house?"

"Yes."

"Go on then." And the young men set off like hunted deer.

"Is he much in advance of us?" said Remy.

"About a quarter of an hour."

"If we do but arrive in time!"




CHAPTER XCI.

THE ASSASSINATION.

Bussy, himself without disquietude or hesitation, had been received
by Diana without fear, for she believed herself sure of the absence
of M. de Monsoreau. Never had this beautiful woman been more
beautiful, nor Bussy more happy. She was moved, however, by fears
for the morrow's combat, now so near, and she repeated to him,
again and again, the anxiety she felt about it, and questioned
him as to the arrangements he had made for flight. To conquer
was not all; there was afterwards the king's anger to avoid,
for it was not probable that he would ever pardon the death or
defeat of his favorites.

"And then," said she, "are you not acknowledged to be the bravest
man in France? Why make it a point of honor to augment your glory?
You are already superior to other men, and you do not wish to
please any other woman but me, Louis. Therefore, guard your life,
or rather--for I think there is not a man in France capable of
killing you, Louis--I should say, take care of wounds, for you may
be wounded. Indeed, it was through a wound received in fighting
with these same men, that I first made your acquaintance."

"Make yourself easy," said Bussy, smiling; "I will take care of
my face--I shall not be disfigured."

"Oh, take care of yourself altogether. Think of the grief you
would experience if you saw me brought home wounded and bleeding,
and that I should feel the same grief on seeing your blood. Be
prudent, my too courageous hero--that is all I ask. Act like
the Roman of whom you read to me the other day: let your friends
fight, aid the one who needs it most, but if three men--if two
men attack you, fly; you can turn, like Horatius, and kill them
one after another."

"Yes, my dear Diana."

"Oh, you reply without hearing me, Louis; you look at me, and
do not listen."

"But I see you, and you are beautiful."

"Do not think of my beauty just now! Mon Dieu! it is your life
I am speaking of. Stay, I will tell you something that will make
you more prudent--I shall have the courage to witness this duel."

"You!"

"I shall be there."

"Impossible, Diana!"

"No; listen. There is, in the room next to this, a window looking
into a little court, but with a side-view of the Tournelles."

"Yes, I remember--the window from which I threw crumbs to the
birds the other day."

"From there I can have a view of the ground; therefore, above
all things, take care to stand so that I can see you; you will
know that I am there, but do not look at me, lest your enemy
should profit by it."

"And kill me, while I had my eyes fixed upon you. If I had to
choose my death, Diana, that is the one I should prefer."

"Yes; but now you are not to die, but live."

"And I will live; therefore tranquilize yourself, Diana. Besides,
I am well seconded--you do not know my friends; Antragues uses
his sword as well as I do, Ribeirac is so steady on the ground
that his eyes and his arms alone seem to be alive, and Livarot
is as active as a tiger. Believe me, Diana, I wish there were
more danger, for there would be more honor."

"Well, I believe you, and I smile and hope; but listen, and promise
to obey me."

"Yes, if you do not tell me to leave."

"It is just what I am about to do. I appeal to your reason."

"Then you should not have made me mad."

"No nonsense, but obedience--that is the way to prove your love."

"Order, then."

"Dear friend, you want a long sleep; go home."

"Not already."

"Yes, I am going to pray for you."

"Pray now, then."

As he spoke, a pane of the window flew into pieces, then the
window itself, and three armed men appeared on the balcony while
a fourth was climbing over. This one had his face covered with
a mask, and held in his right hand a sword, and in his left a
pistol.

Bussy remained paralyzed for a moment by the dreadful cry uttered
by Diana at this sight. The masked man made a sign, and the three
others advanced. Bussy put Diana back, and drew his sword.

"Come, my brave fellows!" said a sepulchral voice from under the
mask; "he is already half-dead with fear."

"You are wrong," said Bussy; "I never feel fear."

Diana drew near him.

"Go back, Diana," said he. But she threw herself on his neck.
"You will get me killed," said he; and she drew back.

"Ah!" said the masked man, "it is M. de Bussy, and I would not
believe it, fool that I was! Really, what a good and excellent
friend! He learns that the husband is absent, and has left his
wife alone, and fears she may be afraid, so he comes to keep
her company, although on the eve of a duel. I repeat, he is a
good and excellent friend!"

"Ah! it is you, M. de Monsoreau!" said Bussy; "throw off your
mask."

"I will," said he, doing so.

Diana uttered another cry; the comte was as pale as a corpse,
but he smiled like a demon.

"Let us finish, monsieur," said Bussy; "it was very well for
Homer's heroes, who were demigods, to talk before they fought;
but I am a man--attack me, or let me pass."

Monsoreau replied by a laugh which made Diana shudder, but raised
Bussy's anger.

"Let me pass!" cried he.

"Oh, oh!"

"Then, draw and have done; I wish to go home and I live far off."

During this time two other men mounted into the balcony.

"Two and four make six," said Bussy, "where are the others?"

"Waiting at the door."

Diana fell on her knees, and in spite of her efforts Bussy heard
her sobs.

"My dear comte," said he, "you know I am a man of honor."

"Yes, you are, and madame is a faithful wife."

"Good, monsieur; you are severe, but, perhaps, it is deserved;
only as I have a prior engagement with four gentlemen, I beg to
be allowed to retire to-night, and I pledge my word, you shall
find me again, when and where you will."

Monsoreau shrugged his shoulders.

"I swear to you, monsieur," said Bussy, "that when I have satisfied
MM. Quelus, Schomberg, D'Epernon, and Maugiron, I shall be at
your service. If they kill me, your vengeance will be satisfied,
and if not----"

Monsoreau turned to his men. "On, my brave fellows," said he.

"Oh!" said Bussy, "I was wrong; it is not a duel, but an
assassination."

"Yes."

"We were each deceived with regard to the other; but remember,
monsieur, that the Duc d'Anjou will avenge me."

"It was he who sent me."

Diana groaned.

Instantaneously Bussy overturned the prie-Dieu, drew a table
towards him, and threw a chair over all, so that in a second he
had formed a kind of rampart between himself and his enemies.
This movement had been so rapid, that the ball fired at him from
the arquebuse only struck the prie-Dieu. Diana sobbed aloud.
Bussy glanced at her, and then at his assailants, crying, "Come
on, but take care, for my sword is sharp."

The men advanced, and one tried to seize the prie-Dieu, but before
he reached it, Bussy's sword pierced his arm. The man uttered
a cry, and fell back.

Bussy then heard rapid steps in the corridor, and thought he
was surrounded. He flew to the door to lock it, but before he
could reach it, it was opened, and two men rushed in.

"Ah! dear master!" cried a well-known voice, "are we in time?"

"Remy!"

"And I?" cried a second voice, "it seems they are attempting
assassination here."

"St. Luc!" cried Bussy, joyfully. "Ah! M. de Monsoreau, I think
now you will do well to let us pass, for if you do not, we will
pass over you."

"Three more men," cried Monsoreau. And they saw three new assailants
appear on the balcony.

"They are an army," cried St. Luc.

"Oh! God protect him!" cried Diana.

"Wretch!" cried Monsoreau, and he advanced to strike her. Bussy
saw the movement. Agile as a tiger, he bounded on him, and touched
him in the throat; but the distance was too great, it was only a
scratch. Five or six men rushed on Bussy, but one fell beneath
the sword of St. Luc.

"Remy!" cried Bussy, "carry away Diana."

Monsoreau uttered a yell and snatched a pistol from one of the
men.

Remy hesitated. "But you?" said he.

"Away! away! I confide her to you."

"Come, madame," said Remy.

"Never! I will never leave him."

Remy seized her in his arms.

"Bussy, help me! Bussy!" cried Diana. For any one who separated
her from Bussy, seemed an enemy to her.

"Go," cried Bussy, "I will rejoin you."

At this moment Monsoreau fired, and Bussy saw Remy totter, and
then fall, dragging Diana with him. Bussy uttered a cry, and
turned.

"It is nothing, master," said Remy. "It was I who received the
ball. She is safe."

As Bussy turned, three men threw themselves on him; St. Luc rushed
forward, and one of them fell. The two others drew back.

"St. Luc," cried Bussy, "by her you love, save Diana."

"But you?"

"I am a man."

St. Luc rushed to Diana, seized her in his arms, and disappeared
through the door.

"Here, my men, from the staircase," shouted Monsoreau.

"Ah! coward!" cried Bussy.

Monsoreau retreated behind his men. Bussy gave a back stroke
and a thrust; with the first he cleft open a head, and with the
second pierced a breast.

"That clears!" cried he.

"Fly, master!" cried Remy.

"Diana must save herself first," murmured he.

"Take care," cried Remy again, as four men rushed in through the
door from the staircase. Bussy saw himself between two troops,
but his only cry was, "Ah! Diana!"

Then, without losing a second, he rushed on the four men; and
taken by surprise, two fell, one dead, one wounded.

Then, as Monsoreau advanced, he retreated again behind his rampart.

"Push the bolts, and turn the key," cried Monsoreau, "we have
him now." During this time, by a great effort, Remy had dragged
himself before Bussy, and added his body to the rampart.

There was an instant's pause. Bussy looked around him. Seven
men lay stretched on the ground, but nine remained. And seeing
these nine swords, and hearing Monsoreau encouraging them, this
brave man, who had never known fear, saw plainly before him the
image of death, beckoning him with its gloomy smile.

"I may kill five more," thought he, "but the other four will
kill me. I have strength for ten minutes' more combat; in that
ten minutes let me do what man never did before."

And rushing forward, he gave three thrusts, and three times he
pierced the leather of a shoulder-belt, or the buff of a jacket,
and three times a stream of blood followed.

During this time he had parried twenty blows with his left arm,
and his cloak, which he had wrapped round it, was hacked to pieces.

The men changed their tactics; seeing two of their number fall
and one retire, they renounced the sword, and some tried to strike
with the butt-ends of their muskets, while others fired at him
with pistols. He avoided the balls by jumping from side to side,
or by stooping; for he seemed not only to see, hear, and act,
but to divine every movement of his enemies, and appeared more
than a man, or only man because he was mortal. Then he thought
that to kill Monsoreau would be the best way to end the combat,
and sought him with his eyes among his assailants, but he stood
in the background, loading the pistols for his men. However,
Bussy rushed forward, and found himself face to face with him.
He, who held a loaded pistol, fired, and the ball, striking Bussy's
sword, broke it off six inches from the handle.

"Disarmed!" cried Monsoreau.

Bussy drew back, picking up his broken blade, and in an instant
it was fastened to the handle with a handkerchief; and the battle
recommenced, presenting the extraordinary spectacle of a man
almost without arms, but also almost without wounds, keeping six
enemies at bay, and with ten corpses at his feet for a rampart.
When the fight began again, Monsoreau commenced to draw away the
bodies, lest Bussy should snatch a sword from one of them. Bussy
was surrounded; the blade of his sword bent and shook in his
hand, and fatigue began to render his arm heavy, when suddenly,
one of the bodies raising itself, pushed a rapier into his hand.
It was Remy's last act of devotion. Bussy uttered a cry of joy,
and threw away his broken sword: at the same moment Monsoreau
fired at Remy, and the ball entered his brain. This time he fell
to rise no more.

Bussy uttered a cry. His strength seemed to return to him, and
he whirled round his sword in a circle, cutting through a wrist
at his right hand, and laying open a cheek at his left. Exhausted
by the effort, he let his right arm fall for a moment, while
with his left he tried to undraw the bolts behind him. During
this second, he received a ball in his thigh, and two swords
touched his side. But he had unfastened the bolt, and turned
the key. Sublime with rage, he rushed on Monsoreau, and wounded
him in the breast.

"Ah!" cried Bussy, "I begin to think I shall escape." The four
men rushed on him, but they could not touch him, and were repulsed
with blows. Monsoreau approached him twice more, and twice more
was wounded. But three men seized hold of the handle of his sword,
and tore it from him. He seized a stool of carved wood, and struck
three blows with it, and knocked down two men; but it broke on the
shoulder of the third, who sent his dagger into Bussy's breast.

Bussy seized him by the wrist, forced the dagger from him, and
stabbed him to the heart. The last man jumped out of the window.
Bussy made two steps to follow him, but Monsoreau, raising himself
from the floor, where he was lying, wounded him in the leg with
his dagger. The young man seized a sword which lay near, and
plunged it so vigorously into his breast, that he pinned him to
the floor.

"Ah!" cried Bussy, "I do not know if I shall live, but at least
I shall have seen you die!"

Bussy dragged himself to the corridor, his wounds bleeding fearfully.
He threw a last glance behind him. The moon was shining brilliantly,
and its light penetrated this room inundated with blood, and
illuminated the walls pierced by balls, and hacked by blows, and
lighted up the pale faces of the dead, which even then seemed
to preserve the fierce look of assassins.

Bussy, at the sight of this field of battle, peopled by him with
slain, nearly dying as he was, experienced a feeling of pride.
As he had intended, he had done what no man had done before him.
There now remained to him only to fly.

But all was not over for the unfortunate young man. On arriving
on the staircase, he saw arms shine in the courtyard; some one
fired, and the ball pierced his shoulder. The court being guarded,
he thought of the little window, where Diana had said she would
sit to see the combat, and as quickly as he could he dragged
himself there, and locked the door behind him; then he mounted
the window with great difficulty, and measured the distance with
his eyes, wondering if he could jump to the other side.

"Oh, I shall never have the strength!" cried he.

But at that moment he heard steps coming up the staircase; it
was the second troop mounting. He collected all his strength,
and made a spring; but his foot slipped, and he fell on the iron
spikes, which caught his clothes, and he hung suspended.

He thought of his only friend.

"St. Luc!" cried he, "help! St. Luc!"

"Ah, it is you, M. de Bussy," answered a voice from behind some
trees.

Bussy shuddered, for it was not the voice of St. Luc.

"St. Luc!" cried he again, "come to me! Diana is safe! I have
killed Monsoreau!"

"Ah! Monsoreau is killed?" said the same voice.

"Yes." Then Bussy saw two men come out from behind the trees.

"Gentlemen," cried he, "in heaven's name, help an unfortunate
nobleman, who may still escape if you aid him."

"What do you say, monseigneur?" said one.

"Imprudent!" said the other.

"Monseigneur," cried Bussy, who heard the conversation, "deliver
me, and I will pardon you for betraying me."

"Do you hear?" said the duke.

"What do you order?"

"That you deliver him from his sufferings," said he, with a kind
of laugh.

Bussy turned his head to look at the man who laughed at such a
time, and at the same instant an arquebuse was discharged into
his breast.

"Cursed assassin! oh, Diana!" murmured he, and fell back dead.

"Is he dead?" cried several men who, after forcing the door, appeared
at the windows.

"Yes," said Aurilly. "But fly; remember that his highness the
Duc d'Anjou was the friend and protector of M. de Bussy."

The men instantly made off, and when the sound of their steps
was lost, the duke said, "Now, Aurilly, go up into the room and
throw out of the window the body of Monsoreau."

Aurilly obeyed, and the blood fell over the clothes of the duke,
who, however, raised the coat of the dead man, and drew out the
paper which he had signed.

"This is all I wanted," said he; "so now let us go."

"And Diana?"

"Ma foi! I care no more for her. Untie her and St. Luc, and let
them go."

Aurilly disappeared.

"I shall not be king of France," murmured the duke, "but, at all
events, I shall not be beheaded for high treason."




CHAPTER XCII.

HOW BROTHER GORENFLOT FOUND HIMSELF MORE THAN EVER BETWEEN A GALLOWS
AND AN ABBEY.

The guard placed to catch the conspirators got none of them;
they all escaped, as we have seen; therefore, when Crillon at
last broke open the door, he found the place deserted and empty.
In vain they opened doors and windows; in vain the king cried,
"Chicot!" No one answered.

"Can they have killed him?" said he. "Mordieu! if they have they
shall pay for it!"

Chicot did not reply, because he was occupied in beating M. de
Mayenne, which gave him so much pleasure that he neither heard
nor saw what was passing. However, when the duke had disappeared,
he heard and recognized the royal voice.

"Here, my son, here!" he cried, trying at the same time to raise
Gorenflot, who, beginning to recover himself, cried, "Monsieur
Chicot!"

"You are not dead, then?"

"My good M. Chicot, you will not give me up to my enemies?"

"Wretch!"

Gorenflot began to howl and wring his hands.

"I, who have had so many good dinners with you," continued Gorenflot;
"I, who drank so well, that you always called me the king of
the sponges; I, who loved so much the capons you used to order
at the Corne d'Abondance, that I never left anything but the
bones."

This climax appeared sublime to Chicot, and determined him to
clemency.

"Here they are! Mon Dieu," cried Gorenflot, vainly trying to
rise, "here they come, I am lost! Oh! good M. Chicot, help me!"
and finding he could not rise, he threw himself with his face
to the ground.

"Get up," said Chicot.

"Do you pardon me?"

"We shall see."

"You have beaten me so much."

Chicot laughed; the poor monk fancied he had received the blows
given to Mayenne.

"You laugh, M. Chicot."

"I do, animal."

"Then I shall live?"

"Perhaps."

"You would not laugh if your Gorenflot was about to die."

"It does not depend upon me, but on the king; he alone has the
power of life and death."

At this moment lights appeared, and a crowd of embroidered dresses
and swords shining in the light of the torches.

"Ah! Chicot! my dear Chicot, how glad I am to see you," cried
the king.

"You hear, good M. Chicot," whispered Gorenflot, "this great prince
is glad to see you."

"Well?"

"Well! in his happiness he would not refuse you a favor; ask for
my pardon."

"What! from Herod?"

"Oh! silence, dear M. Chicot."

"Well! sire, how many have you caught?" said Chicot, advancing.

"Confiteor," said Gorenflot.

"Not one," said Crillon, "the traitors must have found some opening
unknown to us."

"It is probable."

"But you saw them?" said the king.

"All."

"You recognized them, no doubt?"

"No, sire."

"Not recognized them?"

"That is to say, I recognized only one."

"Who was that?"

"M. de Mayenne."

"M. de Mayenne, to whom you owed----"

"Yes, sire; we are quits."

"Ah! tell me about that, Chicot."

"Afterwards, my son; now let us think of the present."

"Confiteor," repeated Gorenflot.

"Ah! you have made a prisoner," said Crillon, laying his large
hand on the monk's shoulder.

Chicot was silent for a minute, leaving Gorenflot a prey to all
the anguish of such profound terror that he nearly fainted again.

At last Chicot said, "Sire, look well at this monk."

"The preacher Gorenflot," cried Henri.

"Confiteor, confiteor," repeated he.

"Himself," said Chicot.

"He who----"

"Just so," interrupted Chicot.

"Ah, ah!"

Gorenflot shook with terror, for he heard the sounds of swords
clashing.

"Wait," said Chicot, "the king must know all." And, taking him
aside, "My son," said he, "thank God for having permitted this
holy man to be born thirty-five years ago, for it is he who has
saved us all."

"How so?"

"It was he who recounted to me the whole plot, from the alpha
to the omega."

"When?"

"About a week ago; so that if ever your majesty's enemies catch
him he will be a dead man."

Gorenflot heard only the last words, "a dead man"; and he covered
his face with his hands.

"Worthy man," said the king, casting a benevolent look on the
mass of flesh before him, "we will cover him with our protection."

Gorenflot perceived the nature of the look, and began to feel
relieved.

"You will do well, my king," said Chicot.

"What must we do with him?"

"I think that as long as he remains in Paris he will be in danger."

"If I gave him guards."

Gorenflot heard this proposition of Henri's. "Well!" thought he,
"I shall get off with imprisonment; I prefer that to beating,
if they only feed me well."

"Oh! no, that is needless," said Chicot, "if you will allow me
to take him with me."

"Where?"

"Home."

"Well! take him, and then return to the Louvre."

"Get up, reverend father," said Chicot.

"He mocks me," murmured Gorenflot.

"Get up, brute," whispered Chicot, giving him a sly kick.

"Ah! I have deserved it," cried Gorenflot.

"What does he say?" asked the king.

"Sire, he is thinking over all his fatigues and his tortures,
and when I promised him your protection, he said, 'Oh! I have
well merited that.'"

"Poor devil!" said the king, "take good care of him."

"Oh! be easy, sire, he will want for nothing with me."

"Oh! M. Chicot, dear M. Chicot," cried Gorenflot, "where am I
to be taken to?"

"You will know soon. Meanwhile, monster of iniquity, thank his
majesty."

"What for?"

"Thank him, I tell you."

"Sire," stammered Gorenflot, "since your gracious majesty----"

"Yes," interrupted Henri, "I know all you did for me, in your
journey from Lyons, on the evening of the League, and again to-day.
Be easy, you shall be recompensed according to your merits."

Gorenflot sighed.

"Where is Panurge?" said Chicot.

"In the stable, poor beast."

"Well! go and fetch him, and return to me."

"Yes, M. Chicot."

And the monk went away as fast as he could, much astonished not
to be followed by guards.

"Now, my son," said Chicot, "keep twenty men for your own escort,
and send ten with M. Crillon to the Hotel d'Anjou and let them
bring your-brother here."

"Why?"

"That he may not escape a second time."

"Did my brother----"

"Have you repented following my advice to-day?"

"No, par le mordieu."

"Then do what I tell you."

Henri gave the order to Crillon, who set off at once.

"And you?" said Henri.

"Oh! I am waiting for my saint."

"And you will rejoin me at the Louvre?"

"In an hour; go, my son."

Henri went; and Chicot, proceeding to the stables, met Gorenflot
coming out on his ass. The poor devil had not an idea of endeavoring
to escape from the fate that he thought awaited him.

"Come, come," said Chicot, "we are waited for." Gorenflot made
no resistance, but he shed many tears.




CHAPTER XCIII.

WHERE CHICOT GUESSES WHY D'EPERNON HAD BLOOD ON HIS FEET AND NONE
IN HIS CHEEKS.

The king, returning to the Louvre, found his friends peacefully
asleep, except D'Epernon, whose bed was empty.

"Not come in yet; how imprudent," murmured the king to Chicot,
who had also returned, and was standing with them by their beds.
"The fool; having to fight to-morrow with a man like Bussy, and
to take no more care than this. Let them seek M. d'Epernon,"
said he, going out of the room, and speaking to an usher.

"M. d'Epernon is just coming in, sire," replied the man.

Indeed, D'Epernon came softly along, thinking to glide unperceived
to his room.

On seeing the king he looked confused.

"Ah! here you are at last," said Henri; "come here and look at
your friends. They are wise! they understand the importance of
the duel to-morrow; but you, instead of praying and sleeping
like them, have been running about the streets. Corbleu; how pale
you are! What will you look like to-morrow?"

D'Epernon was indeed pale, but at the king's remark he colored.

"Now go to bed," continued Henri, "and sleep if you can."

"Why not?"

"Much time you will have. You are to fight at daybreak; and at
this time of year the sun rises at four. It is now two; you have
but two hours to sleep."

"Two hours well employed go a long way."

"You will sleep, then?"

"Well, sire!"

"I do not believe it."

"Why not?"

"Because you are agitated; you think of to-morrow."

"I will sleep, sire, if your majesty will only let me."

"That is just," said Chicot.

Indeed D'Epernon undressed and got into bed, with a calm and
satisfied look, that seemed, both to the king and Chicot to augur
well.

"He is as brave as a Casar," said the king.

"So brave that I do not understand it," said Chicot.

"See, he sleeps already."

Chicot approached the bed to look.

"Oh!" said he.

"What is it?"

"Look," and he pointed to D'Epernon's boots.

"Blood!"

"He has been walking in blood."

"Can he be wounded?" said the king, anxiously.

"Bah! he would have told us; and, besides, unless he had been
wounded like Achilles in the heel----"

"See, the sleeve of his doublet is also spotted. What can have
happened to him?"

"Perhaps he has killed some one to keep his hand in."

"It is singular. Well, to-morrow, at least----"

"To-day, you mean."

"Well! to-day I shall be tranquil."

"Why so?"

"Because those cursed Angevins will be killed."

"You think so, Henri?"

"I am sure of it; my friends are brave."

"I never heard that the Angevins were cowards."

"No, doubtless; but my friends are so strong; look at Schomberg's
arm; what muscle!"

"Ah! if you saw Autragues's! Is that all that reassures you?"

"No; come, and I will show you something."

"Where?"

"In my room."

"And this something makes you confident of victory?"

"Yes."

"Come, then."

"Wait, and let me take leave of them. Adieu, my good friends,"
murmured the king, as he stooped and imprinted a light kiss on
each of their foreheads.

Chicot was not superstitious, but as he looked on, his imagination
pictured a living man making his adieux to the dead.

"It is singular," thought he. "I never felt so before--poor fellows."

As soon as the king quitted the room, D'Epernon opened his eyes;
and, jumping out of bed, began to efface, as well as he could,
the spots of blood on his clothes. Then he went to bed again.

As for Henri, he conducted Chicot to his room, and opened a long
ebony coffer lined with white satin.

"Look!" said he.

"Swords!"

"Yes! but blessed swords, my dear friend."

"Blessed! by whom?"

"By our holy father the Pope, who granted me this favor. To send
this box to Rome and back, cost me twenty horses and four men."

"Are they sharp?"

"Doubtless; but their great merit is that they are blessed."

"Yes, I know that; but still I should like to be sure they are
sharp."

"Pagan!"

"Let us talk of something else."

"Well, be quick."

"You want to sleep?"

"No, to pray."

"In that case we will talk. Have you sent for M. d'Anjou?"

"Yes, he is waiting below."

"What are you going to do with him?"

"Throw him into the Bastile."

"That is very wise: only choose a dungeon that is deep and safe--such
for example, as those which were occupied by the Constable de
St. Paul, or Armagnac."

"Oh! be easy."

"I know where they sell good black velvet, my son."

"Chicot! he is my brother."

"Ah! true; the family mourning is violet. Shall you speak to him?"

"Yes, certainly, if only to show him that his plots are discovered."

"Hum!"

"Do you disapprove?"

"In your place I should cut short the conversation, and double
the imprisonment."

"Let them bring here the Duc d'Anjou," said the king.

A minute after the duke entered, very pale and disarmed. Crillon
followed him.

"Where did you find him?" asked the king.

"Sire, his highness was not at home, but I took possession of
his hotel in the king's name, and soon after he returned, and
we arrested him without resistance."

"That is fortunate." Then, turning to the prince, he said, "Where
were you, monsieur?"

"Wherever I was, sire, be sure it was on your business."

"I doubt it."

Francois bowed.

"Come, tell me where you were while your accomplices were being
arrested."

"My accomplices!"

"Yes; your accomplices."

"Sire, your majesty is making some mistake."

"Oh! this time you shall not escape me; your measure of crime
is full."

"Sire, be moderate; there is certainly some one who slanders me
to you."

"Wretch! you shall die of hunger in a cell of the Bastile!"

"I bow to your orders, whatever they may be."

"Hypocrite! But where were you?"

"Sire, I was serving your majesty, and working for the glory and
tranquillity of your reign."

"Really! your audacity is great."

"Bah!" said Chicot, "tell us about it, my prince; it must be
curious."

"Sire, I would tell your majesty, had you treated me as a brother,
but as you have treated me as a criminal, I will let the event
speak for itself."

Then, bowing profoundly to the king, he turned to Crillon and
the other officers, and said, "Now, which of you gentlemen will
conduct the first prince of the blood to the Bastile?"

Chicot had been reflecting, and a thought struck him.

"Ah!" murmured he, "I believe I guess now why M. d'Epernon had
so much blood on his feet and so little in his cheeks."




CHAPTER XCIV.

THE MORNING OF THE COMBAT.

The king did not sleep all night, and very early in the morning
he set off, accompanied by Chicot, to examine the ground where
the combat was to take place.

"Quelus will be exposed to the sun," said he; "he will have it
at his right, just in his only eye; whereas Maugiron, who has
good eyes, will be in the shade. That is badly managed. As for
Schomberg, his place is good; but Quelus, my poor Quelus!"

"Do not torment yourself so, my king, it is useless."

"And D'Epernon; I am really unjust not to think of him; he, who
is to fight Bussy. Look at his place, Chicot, he who will have
to give way constantly, for Bussy is like a tiger, he has a tree
on his right and a ditch on his left."

"Bah!" said Chicot, "I am not concerned about D'Epernon."

"You are wrong; he will be killed."

"Not he; be sure he has taken precautions."

"How so?"

"He will not fight."

"Did you not hear what he said before going to bed?"

"That is just why I think he will not fight."

"Incredulous and distrustful!"

"I know my Gascon, Henri; but if you will take my advice, you
will return to the Louvre."

"Do you think I can stay there during the combat?"

"I do not wish you not to love your friends, but I do wish you
not to leave M. d'Anjou alone at the Louvre."

"Is not Crillon there?"

"Crillon is only a buffalo--a rhinoceros--a wild boar; while
your brother is the serpent, whose strength lies in his cunning."

"You are right; I should have sent him to the Bastile."

When Chicot and the king entered, the young men were being dressed
by their valets.

"Good morning, gentlemen," said he; "I find you all in good spirits,
I hope?"

"Yes, sire," said Quelus.

"You look gloomy, Maugiron."

"Sire, I am superstitious, and I had bad dreams last night, so
I am drinking a little wine to keep up my spirits."

"My friend, remember that dreams are the impressions of the previous
day, and have no influence on the morrow."

"Yes, sire," said D'Epernon, "I also had bad dreams last night;
but, in spite of that, my hand is steady and fit for action."

"Yes," said Chicot, "you dreamed you had blood on your boots;
that is not a bad dream, for it signifies that you will be a
conqueror, like Alexander or Casar."

"My friends," said Henri, "remember you fight only for honor;
the past night has seated me firmly on my throne, therefore do
not think of me; and, above all things, no false bravery; you
wish to kill your enemies, not to die yourselves."

The gentlemen were now ready, and it only remained to take leave
of their master.

"Do you go on horseback?" asked he.

"No, sire, on foot."

They each kissed his hand, and D'Epernon said, "Sire, bless my
sword."

"Not so, D'Epernon; give tip your sword--I have a better one for
each of you. Chicot, bring them here."

"No, sire, send your captain of the guards; I am but a Pagan,
and they might lose their virtue by coming through my hands."

"What are these swords, sire?" said Schomberg.

"Italian swords, my son, forged at Milan."

"Thanks, sire."

"Now go, it is time," said the king, who could hardly control
his emotion.

"Sire," said Quelus, "shall we not have your majesty's presence
to encourage us?"

"No, that would not be right; you will be supposed to fight without
any one being cognizant of it, and without my sanction. Let it
appear to be the result of a private quarrel."

When they were gone, the king threw himself down in tears.

"Now," said Chicot, "I will go to see this duel, for I have an
idea that something curious will happen with regard to D'Epernon."
And he went off.

Henri shut himself up in his own room, first saying to Crillon,
who knew what was to take place, "If we are conquerors, Crillon,
come and tell me; if not, strike three blows on the door."




CHAPTER XCV.

THE FRIENDS OF BUSSY.

The friends of the Duc d'Anjou had passed as good and tranquil a
night as those of the king, although their master had not taken
the same care of them. After a good supper, they had all retired
to sleep at Antragues's house, which was nearest to the field
of battle. Antragues, before supper, had gone to take leave of
a little milliner whom he adored, Ribeirac had written to his
mother, and Livarot had made his will. They were up early in the
morning, and dressed themselves in red breeches and socks, that
their enemies might not see their blood, and they had doublets
of gray silk. They wore shoes without heels, and their pages
carried their swords, that their arms might not be fatigued.

The weather was splendid, for love, war, or walking; and the
sun gilded the roofs, on which the night dew was sparkling. The
streets were dry, and the air delightful.

Before leaving the house, the young men had sent to the Hotel
d'Anjou to inquire for Bussy, and had received a reply that he
had gone out the evening before and had not yet returned.

"Oh!" said Antragues, "I know where he is; the king ordered a
grand chase at Compiegne, and M. de Monsoreau was to set off
yesterday. It is all right, gentlemen; he is nearer the ground
than we are, and may be there before us. We will call for him
in passing."

The streets were empty as they went along; no one was to be seen
except peasants coming from Montreuil or Vincennes, with milk
or vegetables.

The young men went on in silence until they reached the Rue St.
Antoine.

Then, with a smile, they glanced at Monsoreau's house.

"One could see well from there, and I am sure poor Diana will
be more than once at the window," said Antragues.

"I think she must be there already," said Ribeirac, "for the window
is open."

"True, but what can be the meaning of that ladder before it?"

"It is odd."

"We are not the only ones to wonder," said Livarot, "see those
peasants, who are stopping their carts to look."

The young men arrived under the balcony. "M. de Monsoreau," they
cried, "do you intend to be present at our combat? if so, be
quick, for we wish to arrive first."

They waited, but no one answered.

"Did you put up that ladder?" asked Antragues of a man who was
examining the ground.

"God forbid!" replied he.

"Why so?"

"Look up."

"Blood!" cried Ribeirac.

"The door has been forced," said Antragues; and seizing the ladder,
he was on the balcony in a moment.

"What is it?" cried the others, seeing him turn pale.

A terrible cry was his only answer. Livarot mounted behind him.
"Corpses! death everywhere!" cried he. And they both entered
the room. It bore horrible traces of the terrible combat of the
previous night. A river of blood flowed over the room; and the
curtains were hanging in strips from sword cuts.

"Oh! poor Remy!" cried Antragues, suddenly.

"Dead!"

"Yes."

"But a regiment of troopers must have passed through the room,"
cried Livarot. Then, seeing the door of the corridor open, and
traces of blood indicating that one or more of the combatants had
also passed through there, he followed it. Meanwhile, Antragues
went into the adjoining room; there also blood was everywhere,
and this blood led to the window. He leaned out and looked into
the little garden. The iron spikes still held the livid corpse
of the unhappy Bussy. At this sight, it was not a cry, but a
yell, that Antragues uttered. Livarot ran to see what it was,
and Ribeirac followed.

"Look!" said Antragues, "Bussy dead! Bussy assassinated and thrown
out of window."

They ran down.

"It is he," cried Livarot.

"His wrist is cut."

"He has two balls in his breast."

"He is full of wounds."

"Ah! poor Bussy! we will have vengeance!"

Turning round they came against a second corpse.

"Monsoreau!" cried Livarot.

"What! Monsoreau also."

"Yes, pierced through and through."

"Ah! they have assassinated all our friends."

"And his wife? Madame de Monsoreau!" cried Antragues; but no one
answered.

"Bussy, poor Bussy."

"Yes, they wished to get rid of the most formidable of us all."

"It is cowardly! it is infamous!"

"We will tell the duke."

"No," said Antragues, "let us not charge any one with the care
of our vengeance. Look, my friends, at the noble face of the
bravest of men; see his blood, that teaches that he never left
his vengeance to any other person. Bussy! we will act like you,
and we will avenge you."

Then, drawing his sword, he dipped it in Bussy's blood.

"Bussy," said he, "I swear on your corpse, that this blood shall
be washed off by the blood of your enemies."

"Bussy," cried the others, "we swear to kill them or die."

"No mercy," said Antragues.

"But we shall be but three."

"True, but we have assassinated no one, and God will strengthen
the innocent. Adieu, Bussy!"

"Adieu, Bussy!" repeated the others; and they went out, pale
but resolute, from that cursed house, around which a crowd had
begun to collect.

Arriving on the ground, they found their opponents waiting for
them.

"Gentlemen," said Quelus, rising and bowing, "we have had the
honor of waiting for you."

"Excuse us," said Antragues, "but we should have been here before
you, but for one of our companions."

"M. de Bussy," said D'Epernon, "I do not see him. Where is he?"

"We can wait for him," said Schomberg.

"He will not come."

All looked thunderstruck; but D'Epernon exclaimed:

"Ah! the brave man par excellence--is he, then, afraid?"

"That cannot be," said Quelus.

"You are right, monsieur," said Livarot.

"And why will he not come?"

"Because he is dead."

"Dead!" cried they all, but D'Epernon turned rather pale.

"And dead because he has been assassinated," said Antragues. "Did
you not know it, gentlemen?"

"No; how should we?"

"Besides, is it certain?"

Antragues drew his sword. "So certain that here is his blood,"
said he.

"M. de Bussy assassinated!"

"His blood cries for vengeance! do you not hear it, gentlemen?"
said Ribeirac.

"What do you mean?"

"'Seek whom the crime profits,' the law says," replied Ribeirac.

"Ah! gentlemen, will you explain yourselves?" cried Maugiron.

"That is just what we have come for."

"Quick! our swords are in our hands!" said D'Epernon.

"Oh! you are in a great hurry, M. le Gascon; you did not crow
so loud when we were four against four!"

"Is it our fault, if you are only three?"

"Yes, it is your fault; he is dead because you preferred him
lying in his blood to standing here; he is dead, with his wrist
cut, that that wrist might no longer hold a sword; he is dead,
that you might not see the lightning of those eyes, which dazzled
you all. Do you understand me? am I clear?"

"Enough, gentlemen!" said Quelus. "Retire, M. d'Epernon! we will
fight three against three. These gentlemen shall see if we are men
to profit by a misfortune which we deplore as much as themselves.
Come, gentlemen," added the young mall, throwing his hat behind
him, and raising his left hand, while he whirled his sword with
the right, "God is our judge if we are assassins!"

"Ah! I hated you before," cried Schomberg, "and now I execrate
you!"

"On your guard, gentlemen!" cried Antragues.

"With doublets or without?" said Schomberg.

"Without doublets, without shirts; our breasts bare, our hearts
uncovered!"

The young men threw off their doublets and shirts.

"I have lost my dagger," said Quelus; "it must have fallen on
the road."

"Or else you left it at M. de Monsoreau's, in the Place de la
Bastile," said Antragues.

Quelus gave a cry of rage, and drew his sword.

"But he has no dagger, M. Antragues," cried Chicot, who had just
arrived.

"So much the worse for him; it is not my fault," said Antragues.




CHAPTER XCVI.

THE COMBAT.

The place where this terrible combat was to take place was
sequestered and shaded by trees. It was generally frequented
only by children, who came to play there during the day, or by
drunkards or robbers, who made a sleeping-place of it by night.

Chicot, his heart palpitating, although he was not of a very
tender nature, seated himself before the lackeys and pages, on
a wooden balustrade.

He did not love the Angevins, and detested the minions, but they
were all brave young men, and in their veins flowed a generous
blood, which he was probably destined to see flow before long.

D'Epernon made a last bravado, "What! you are all afraid of me?"
he cried.

"Hold your tongue," said Antragues.

"Come away, bravest of the brave," said Chicot, "or else you will
lose another pair of shoes."

"What do you mean?"

"I mean that there will soon be blood on the ground, and that
you will walk in it, as you did last night."

D'Epernon became deadly pale, and, moving away, he seated himself
at some distance from Chicot.

The combat began as five o'clock struck, and for a few minutes
nothing was heard but the clashing of swords; not a blow was
struck. At last Schomberg touched Ribeirac in the shoulder, and
the blood gushed out; Schomberg tried to repeat the blow, but
Ribeirac struck up his sword, and wounded him in the side.

"Now let us rest a few seconds, if you like," said Ribeirac.

Quelus, having no dagger, was at a great disadvantage; for he
was obliged to parry with his left arm, and, as it was bare, on
each occasion it cost him a wound. His hand was soon bleeding
in several places, and Antragues had also wounded him in the
breast; but at each wound he repeated, "It is nothing."

Livarot and Maugiron were still unwounded.

Ribeirac and Schomberg recommenced; the former was pierced through
the breast, and Schomberg was wounded in the neck.

Ribeirac was mortally wounded, and Schomberg rushed on him and gave
him another; but he, with his right hand, seized his opponent's,
and with his left plunged his dagger into his heart.

Schomberg fell back, dragging Ribeirac with him. Livarot ran to
aid Ribeirac to disengage himself from the grasp of his adversary,
but was closely pursued by Maugiron, who cut open his head with a
blow of his sword. Livarot let his sword drop, and fell on his
knees; then Maugiron hastened to give him another wound, and
he fell altogether.

Quelus and Maugiron remained against Antragues. Quelus was bleeding,
but from slight wounds.

Antragues comprehended his danger; he had not the least wound,
but he began to feel tired, so he pushed aside Quelus' sword and
jumped over a barrier; but at the same moment, Maugiron attacked
him behind; Antragues turned, and Quelus profited by this movement
to get under the barrier.

"He is lost!" thought Chicot.

"Vive le roi!" cried D'Epernon.

"Silence, if you please, monsieur," said Antragues. At this instant
Livarot, of whom no one was thinking, rose on his knees, hideous
from the blood with which he was covered, and plunged his dagger
between the shoulders of Maugiron, who fell, crying out, "Mon
Dieu! I am killed!"

Livarot fell back again, fainting.

"M. de Quelus," said Antragues, "you are a brave man; yield--I
offer you your life."

"And why yield?"

"You are wounded, and I am not."

"Vive le roi!" cried Quelus; "I have still my sword!" And he
rushed on Antragues, who parried the thrust, and, seizing his
arm, wrested his sword from him, saying, "Now you have it no
longer."

"Oh, a sword!" cried Quelus; and, bounding like a tiger on Antragues,
he threw his arms round him.

Antragues struck him with his dagger again and again, but Quelus
managed to seize his hands, and twisted round him like a serpent,
with arms and legs. Antragues, nearly suffocated, reeled and
fell, but on the unfortunate Quelus. He managed to disengage
himself, for Quelus' powers were failing him, and, leaning on
one arm, gave him a last blow.

"Vive le r----" said Quelus, and that was all. The silence and
terror of death reigned everywhere.

Antragues rose, covered with blood, but it was that of his enemy.

D'Epernon made the sign of the cross, and fled as if he were pursued
by demons.

Chicot ran and raised Quelus, whose blood was pouring out from
nineteen wounds.

The movement roused him, and he opened his eyes.

"Antragues," said he, "on my honor, I am innocent of the death
of Bussy."

"Oh! I believe you, monsieur," cried Antragues, much moved.

"Fly!" murmured Quelus; "the king will never forgive you."

"I cannot abandon you thus, even to escape the scaffold."

"Save yourself, young man," said Chicot; "do not tempt Providence
twice in one day."

Antragues approached Ribeirac, who still breathed.

"Well?" asked he.

"We are victors," said Antragues, in a low tone, not to offend
Quelus.

"Thanks," said Ribeirac; "now go."

And he fainted again.

Antragues picked up his own sword, which he had dropped, then
that of Quelus, which he presented to him. A tear shone in the
eyes of the dying man. "We might have been friends," he murmured.

"Now fly," said Chicot; "you are worthy of being saved."

"And my companions?"

"I will take care of them, as of the king's friends."

Antragues wrapped himself in a cloak which his squire handed
to him, so that no one might see the blood with which he was
covered, and, leaving the dead and wounded, he disappeared through
the Porte St. Antoine.




CHAPTER XCVII.

THE END.

The king, pale with anxiety, and shuddering at the slightest
noise, employed himself in conjecturing, with the experience of
a practised man, the time that it would take for the antagonists
to meet and that the combat would last.

"Now," he murmured first, "they are crossing the Rue St. Antoine--now
they are entering the field--now they have begun." And at these
words, the poor king, trembling, began to pray.

Rising again in a few minutes, he cried:

"If Quelus only remembers the thrust I taught him! As for Schomberg,
he is so cool that he ought to kill Ribeirac; Maugiron, also,
should be more than a match for Livarot. But D'Epernon, he is
lost; fortunately he is the one of the four whom I love least.
But if Bussy, the terrible Bussy, after killing him, falls on
the others! Ah, my poor friends!"

"Sire!" said Crillon, at the door.

"What! already?"

"Sire, I have no news but that the Duc d'Anjou begs to speak to
your majesty."

"What for?"

"He says that the moment has come for him to tell you what service
he rendered your majesty, and that what he has to tell you will
calm a part of your fears."

"Well, let him come."

At this moment they heard a voice crying, "I must speak to the
king at once!"

The king recognized the voice, and opened the door.

"Here, St. Luc!" cried he. "What is it? But, mon Dieu! what is
the matter? Are they dead?"

Indeed, St. Luc, pale, without hat or sword, and spotted with
blood, rushed into the king's room.

"Sire!" cried he, "vengeance! I ask for vengeance!"

"My poor St. Luc, what is it? You seem in despair."

"Sire, one of your subjects, the bravest, noblest, has been murdered
this night--traitorously murdered!"

"Of whom do you speak?"

"Sire, you do not love him, I know; but he was faithful, and,
if need were, would have shed all his blood for your majesty,
else he would not have been my friend."

"Ah!" said the king, who began to understand; and something like
a gleam of joy passed over his face.

"Vengeance, sire, for M. de Bussy!"

"M. de Bussy?"

"Yes, M. de Bussy, whom twenty assassins poniarded last night.
He killed fourteen of them."

"M. de Bussy dead?"

"Yes, sire."

"Then he does not fight this morning?"

St. Luc cast a reproachful glance on the king, who turned away
his head, and, in doing so, saw Crillon still standing at the
door. He signed to him to bring in the duke.

"No, sire, he will not fight," said St. Luc; "and that is why
I ask, not for vengeance--I was wrong to call it so--but for
justice. I love my king, and am, above all things, jealous of
his honor, and I think that it is a deplorable service which
they have rendered to your majesty by killing M. de Bussy."

The Duc d'Anjou had just entered, and St. Luc's words had enlightened
the king as to the service his brother had boasted of having
rendered him.

"Do you know what they will say?" continued St. Luc. "They will
say, if your friends conquer, that it is because they first murdered
Bussy."

"And who will dare to say that?"

"Pardieu! everyone," said Crillon.

"No, monsieur, they shall not say that," replied the king, "for
you shall point out the assassin."

"I will name him, sire, to clear your majesty from so heinous
an accusation," said St. Luc.

"Well! do it."

The Duc d'Anjou stood quietly by.

"Sire," continued St. Luc, "last night they laid a snare for
Bussy, while he visited a woman who loved him; the husband, warned
by a traitor, came to his house with a troop of assassins; they
were everywhere--in the street--in the courtyard, even in the
garden."

In spite of his power over himself, the duke grew pale at these
last words.

"Bussy fought like a lion, sire, but numbers overwhelmed him,
and--"

"And he was killed," interrupted the king, "and justly; I will
certainly not revenge an adulterer."

"Sire, I have not finished my tale. The unhappy man, after having
defended himself for more than half an hour in the room, after
having triumphed over his enemies, escaped, bleeding, wounded,
and mutilated: he only wanted some one to lend him a saving hand,
which I would have done had I not been seized by his assassins,
and bound, and gagged. Unfortunately, they forgot to take away
my sight as well as my speech, for I saw two men approach the
unlucky Bussy, who was hanging on the iron railings. I heard him
entreat them for help, for in these two men he had the right to
reckon on two friends. Well, sire, it is horrible to relate--it
was still more horrible to see and hear--one ordered him to be
shot, and the other obeyed."

"And you know the assassins?" cried the king, moved in spite of
himself.

"Yes," said St. Luc, and turning to the prince, with an expression
of intense hatred, he cried, "the assassin, sire, was the prince,
his friend."

The duke stood perfectly quiet and answered, "Yes, M. de St. Luc
is right; it was I, and your majesty will appreciate my action,
for M. de Bussy was my servant; but this morning he was to fight
against your majesty."

"You lie, assassin!" cried St. Luc. "Bussy, full of wounds, his
hands cut to pieces, a ball through his shoulder, and hanging
suspended on the iron trellis-work, might have inspired pity
in his most cruel enemies; they would have succored him. But
you, the murderer of La Mole and of Coconnas, you killed Bussy,
as you have killed, one after another, all your friends. You
killed Bussy, not because he was the king's enemy, but because
he was the confidant of your secrets. Ah! Monsoreau knew well
your reason for this crime."

"Cordieu!" cried Crillon, "why am I not king?"

"They insult me before you, brother," said the duke, pale with
terror.

"Leave us, Crillon," said the king. The officer obeyed.

"Justice, sire, justice!" cried St. Luc again.

"Sire," said the duke, "will you punish me for having served your
majesty's friends this morning?"

"And I," cried St. Luc, "I say that the cause which you espouse
is accursed, and will be pursued by the anger of God. Sire, when
your brother protects our friends, woe to them." The king shuddered.

Then they heard hasty steps and voices, followed by a deep silence;
and then, as if a voice from heaven came to confirm St. Luc's
words, three blows were struck slowly and solemnly on the door
by the vigorous arm of Crillon. Henri turned deadly pale.

"Conquered," cried he; "my poor friends!"

"What did I tell you, sire?" cried St. Luc. "See how murder succeeds."

But the king saw nothing, heard nothing; he buried his face in
his hands, and murmured. "Oh! my poor friends; who will tell
me about them?"

"I, sire," said Chicot.--"Well!" cried Henri.

"Two are dead, and the third is dying."

"Which is the third?"--"Quelus."

"Where is he?"--"At the Hotel Boissy."

The king said no more, but rushed from the room.

St. Luc had taken Diana home to his wife, and this had kept him
from appearing sooner at the Louvre. Jeanne passed three days
and nights watching her through the most frightful delirium.
On the fourth day, Jeaune, overcome by fatigue, went to take a
little rest: two hours after, when she returned, Diana was gone.

Quelus died at the Hotel Boissy, in the king's arms, after lingering
for thirty days.

Henri was inconsolable. He raised three magnificent tombs for
his friends, on which their effigies were sculptured, life-size,
in marble. He had innumerable masses said for them, and prayed
for their souls himself night and morning. For three months Chicot
never left his master. In September, Chicot received the following
letter, dated from the Priory of Beaume:


"DEAR M. CHICOT--The air is soft in this place, and the vintage
promises to be good this year. They say that the king, whose
life I saved, still grieves much. Bring him to the priory, dear
M. Chicot; we will give him wine of 1550, which I have discovered
in my cellar, and which is enough to make one forget the greatest
grief; for I find in the Holy Writ these words, 'Good wine rejoices
the heart of man.' It is in Latin. I will show it you. Come,
then, dear M. Chicot; come, with the king, M. d'Epernon, and M.
de St. Luc, and we will fatten them all.

  "The reverend prior,
      "DOM GORENFLOT,
    "Your humble servant and friend.

"P.S.--Tell the king that I have not yet had time to pray for
the souls of his friends; but when the vintage is over; I shall
not fail to do so."


"Amen," said Chicot; "here are poor devils well recommended to
Heaven."


THE END





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Chicot the Jester, by Alexandre Dumas





Produced by Jonathan Ingram, Thomas Berger,
and the Distributed Proofreaders Team




THE POETICAL WORKS OF CHARLES CHURCHILL.


With Memoir, Critical Dissertation, and Explanatory Notes,

By The REV. GEORGE GILFILLAN.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHURCHILL--HIS LIFE AND WRITINGS.

In Churchill we find a signal specimen of a considerable class of
writers, concerning whom Goldsmith's words are true--

  "Who, born for the universe, narrow'd their mind,
  And to party gave up what was meant for mankind."

Possessed of powers and natural endowments which might have made him,
under favourable circumstances, a poet, a hero, a man, and a saint, he
became, partly through his own fault, and partly through the force of
destiny, a satirist, an unfortunate politician, a profligate, died early;
and we must approach his corpse, as men do those of Burns and Byron, with
sorrow, wonder, admiration, and blame, blended into one strange, complex,
and yet not unnatural emotion. Like them, his life was short and
unhappy--his career triumphant, yet checquered--his powers
uncultivated--his passions unchecked--his poetry only a partial discovery
of his genius--his end sudden and melancholy--and his reputation, and
future place in the history of letters, hitherto somewhat uncertain. And
yet, like them, his very faults and errors, both as a man and a poet,
have acted, with many, as nails, fastening to a "sure place" his
reputation and the effect of his genius.

Charles Churchill was born in Vine Street, Westminster, in February 1731.
He was the eldest son of the Rev. Charles Churchill, a rector in Essex,
as well as a curate, and lecturer of St John the Evangelist, Westminster.
As to the attainments of the poet's father, we know only that he was
qualified to superintend the studies of the son, during the intervals of
public tuition. At eight years of age, he was sent to Westminster School,
and placed under the care of Dr Nichols and Dr Pierson Lloyd, where his
proficiency in classical lore was by no means remarkable; nor did he give
any promise of the brilliance which afterwards distinguished his genius.
At fifteen, he stood as candidate for admission to the foundation at
Westminster, and carried it triumphantly. Shortly after, having by some
misdemeanour displeased the masters, he was compelled to compose, and
recite in the school-room, a poetical declamation in Latin, by way of
penance. This he accomplished in a masterly manner--to the astonishment
of his masters, and the delight of his school-fellows--some of whom
became afterwards distinguished men. We can fancy the scene at the day of
the recitation--the grave and big-wigged schoolmasters looking grimly
on--their aspect, however, becoming softer and brighter, as one large
hexameter rolls out after another--the strong, awkward, ugly boy,
unblushingly pouring forth his energetic lines--cheered by the sight of
the relaxing gravity of his teachers' looks--while around, you see the
bashful tremulous figure of poor Cowper, the small thin shape and bright
eye of Warren Hastings, and the waggish countenance of Colman--all
eagerly watching the reciter--and all, at last, distended and brightened
with joy at his signal triumph.

At the age of eighteen, he stood for a fellowship in Merton College, but
without success--being defeated by older candidates. Shortly after, he
applied for matriculation at the University of Oxford, but is SAID to
have been rejected at his examination, in which, instead of answering the
questions proposed, he broke out into satirical reflections on the
abilities of his judges. From Oxford he repaired to Cambridge, where he
was admitted into Trinity College. Here, however, his stay was very
short,--he was probably repelled by the _chevaux-de-frise_ of the
mathematics;--and in a few weeks he returned to London, disgusted at both
universities, shaking their dust off his feet, and, perhaps, vowing
vengeance against them--a vow which he has kept in his poetry. In his
"Ghost," for instance, he thus ridiculed those forms of admission--

                  "Which Balaam's ass
  As well as Balaam's self might pass,
  And with his master take degrees,
  Could he contrive to pay the fees."

Penniless, and soured by disappointment, Churchill returned to his
father's house; and, being idle, soon obtained work from the proverbial
"taskmaster" of all idle people. Having become acquainted with a young
lady, named Scott, whose father lived in the vicinity of Westminster
School, he, with true poetic imprudence, married her privately in the
Fleet, to the great annoyance of both their parents. His father, however,
was much attached to and proud of his son, and at last was reconciled to
the match, and took the young couple home. Churchill passed one quiet
domestic year under the paternal roof. At its termination--for reasons
which are not known--he retired to Sunderland, in the north of England,
and seems there to have applied himself enthusiastically to the study of
poetry--commencing, at the same time, a course of theological reading,
with a view to the Church. He remained in Sunderland till the year 1753,
when he came back to London to take possession of a small fortune which
accrued to him through his wife. He had now reached the age of
twenty-two, and had been three years married.

During the residence in the metropolis which succeeded, he frequented the
theatres, and came thus in contact with a field where he was to gather
his earliest and most untarnished laurels. In "The Rosciad," we find the
results of several years' keen and close observation of the actors of the
period, collected into one focus, and pointed and irradiated by the power
of genius. As Scott, while carelessly galloping in his youth through
Liddesdale, and listening to ballads and old-world stories, was "making
himself" into the mighty minstrel of the border--so this big, clumsy,
overgrown student, seated in the pit of Drury Lane, or exalted to the
one-shilling gallery of Covent Garden, was silently growing into the
greatest poet of the stage that, perhaps, ever lived.

Soon after, he was ordained deacon by the Bishop of Bath and Wells, on
the curacy of Cadbury, in Somersetshire, where he immediately removed,
and entered on a career of active ministerial work. Such were the golden
opinions he gained in Cadbury, that, in 1756, although he had taken no
degree, nor could be said to have studied at either of the universities,
he was ordained priest by Dr Sherlock, the Bishop of London (celebrated
for his Sermons and his "Trial of the Witnesses"), on his father's curacy
of Rainham, Essex. Here he continued diligent in his pastoral
duties--blameless in his conduct, and attentive to his theological
studies. He seemed to have entirely escaped from the suction of the
stage--to have forsworn the Muses, and to have turned the eye of his
ambition away from the peaks of Parnassus to the summit of the Bishops'
Bench.

But for Churchill's poor circumstances, it is likely that he would have
reached this elevation, as surely as did his great contemporary, and the
object of his implacable hatred and abuse, William Warburton. But his
early marriage, and his increasing responsibilities, produced pecuniary
embarrassments, and these must have tended gradually to sour him against
his profession, and to prepare his mind for that rupture with it which
ultimately ensued. To support himself and his family, he opened a school,
and met with considerable encouragement--although we suspect that his
scholars felt something of the spirit of the future satirist stirring in
the motions of his rod, and that he who afterwards lashed his century did
not spare his school. In the year 1758, his amiable and excellent father
died, and (a striking testimony both to his own and his son's early
worth) Charles was unanimously chosen to be his father's successor in the
curacy and lectureship of St John's. There he laboured for a time,
according to some statements, with much punctuality, energy, and
acceptance. After "The Rosciad" had established his name, he sold ten of
the sermons he had preached in St John's to a bookseller for L250. We
have not read them; but Dr Kippis has pronounced them utterly unworthy of
their author's fame--without a single gleam of his poetic fire--so poor,
indeed, that he supposes that they were borrowed from some dull elderly
divine, if not from Churchill's own father. This reminds us of a story
which was lately communicated to us about the famous William Godwin. He,
too, succeeded his father in his pastoral charge. Tinged, however,
already with heterodox views, he was by no means so popular as his father
had been. His own sermons were exceedingly cold and dry, but he possessed
a chestful of his father's, and used to read them frequently, by way of
grateful change to his hearers. The sermons of the elder Godwin were
recognised by the orthodoxy of their sentiment, and the dinginess of
their colour, and were much relished; and so long as the stock lasted,
the future author of "Caleb Williams" commanded a tolerable audience; but
so soon as he had read them all, and resumed his own lucubrations, his
hearers melted away, and he moved off to become a literateur in London.
Perhaps Churchill, in like manner, may have found that general audiences
like plain sense better than poetry. That he had ever much real piety or
zeal has been gravely doubted, and we share in the doubts. But although
he himself speaks slightingly, in one of his latter poems, of his
ministerial labours, he at least played his part with outward decorum.
His great objection to the office was still his small salary, which
amounted to scarcely L100 per annum. This compelled him to resume the
occupation of a tutor, first to the young ladies attending a
boarding-school in Queen Square, Bloomsbury, and then to several young
gentlemen who were prosecuting the study of the classics.

When about twenty-seven years of age, he renewed his acquaintance with
Robert Lloyd, the son of Dr Lloyd, one of the masters of Westminster
School, and who had been an early chum of Churchill's. This young man had
discovered very promising abilities, alike at Westminster and at
Cambridge, and had been appointed usher in his father's seminary; but,
sick of the drudgery, and infected with a fierce thirst both for fame and
pleasure, had flung himself upon the literary arena. Although far
inferior to Churchill in genius, and indeed little better than a clever
copyist of his manner, he exerted a very pernicious influence on his
friend's conduct. He borrowed inspiration from Churchill, and gave him
infamy in exchange. The poet could do nothing by halves. Along with
Lloyd, he rushed into a wild career of dissipation. He became a nightly
frequenter of the theatres, taverns, and worse haunts. His wife, with
whom, after the first year, he never seems to have been happy, instead of
checking, outran her husband in extravagance and imprudence. He got
deeply involved in debt, and was repeatedly in danger of imprisonment,
till Dr Lloyd, his friend's father, nobly stept forward to his relief,
persuaded his creditors to accept five shillings in the pound, and
himself lent what was required to complete the sum. It is said that, when
afterwards Churchill had made money by the sale of his poems, he
voluntarily paid the whole of the original debt.

Along with the new love of indulgence, there had arisen in his bosom the
old love of verse. Stimulated by intercourse with Lloyd, Colman, B.
Thornton, and other wits of the period, he had written a poem, in
Hudibrastic rhyme, entitled "The Bard." This he offered to one Waller, a
bookseller in Fleet Street, who rejected it with scorn. In this feeling
Churchill seems afterwards to have shared, as he never would consent to
its publication. Not at all discouraged, he sat down and wrote a satire
entitled "The Conclave," directed against the Dean and Chapter of
Westminster,--Dr Zachary Pearce, a favourite of Churchill's ire, being
then Dean. This would have been published but for the fear of legal
proceedings. It was extremely personal and severe. His third effort was
destined to be more successful. This was "The Rosciad," written, it is
said, after two months' close attendance on the theatres. This
excessively clever satire he offered to various booksellers, some say for
twenty pounds, others for five guineas. It was refused, and he had to
print it at his own expense. It appeared, without his name, in March
1761. Churchill now, like Byron, "awoke one morning and found himself
famous." A few days convinced him and all men that a decided hit had been
made, and that a strong new satirist had burst, like a comet, into the
sky--

  "With fear of change perplexing" players.

The effect was prodigious. The critics admired--the victims of his satire
writhed and raved--the public greedily bought, and all cried out, "Who
can this be?" The _Critical Review_, then conducted by Smollett, alone
opposed the general opinion. It accused Colman and Lloyd of having
concocted "The Rosciad," for the purpose of puffing themselves. This
compelled Churchill to quit his mask. He announced his name as the author
of the poem, and as preparing another--his "Apology"--addressed to the
_Critical Reviewers_, which accordingly appeared ere the close of April.
It proved a second bombshell, cast into the astonished town. Smollett was
keenly assailed in it, and had to write to Churchill, through Garrick,
that he was not the writer of the obnoxious critique. Garrick, himself
the hero of "The Rosciad," was here rather broadly reminded that heroes
are mortal, and that kings may be dethroned, and had to make humiliating
concessions to the fearless satirist. Fearless, indeed, and strong he
required to be, for many of his victims had vowed loud and deep to avenge
their quarrel by inflicting corporal chastisement on their foe. He armed
himself with a huge bludgeon, however, and stalked abroad and returned
home unharmed and unattempted. None cared to meddle with such a brawny
Hercules.

In another way his enemies soon had their revenge. He had gained one
thousand pounds by his two poems, and this supplied him with the
materials of unlimited indulgence, which he did not fail to use. He threw
off every restraint. He donned, instead of his clerical costume, a blue
coat and gold-laced waistcoat. He separated from his wife, giving her,
indeed, a handsome allowance. His midnight potations became deeper and
more habitual. Dean Zachary Pearce, afterwards Bishop of Rochester, in
vain remonstrated. At last, on his parishioners taking the matter up, and
raising an outcry as to his neglect of duty, and the unbecoming character
of his dress, he resigned his curacy and lectureship, and became for the
rest of his life a literary and dissipated "man about town."

In October 1761 he published a poem entitled "Night," addressed to Lloyd,
in which, while seeking to vindicate himself from the charges against his
_morale_, he in reality glories in his shame. His sudden celebrity had
perhaps acted as a glare of light, revealing faults that might have been
overlooked in an obscure person. With his dissipation, too, there mingled
some elements of generosity and compassion, as in the story told of him
by Charles Johnson in his "Chrysal" of the poet succouring a poor
starving girl of the town, whom he met in the midnight streets,--an
incident reminding one of the similar stories told of Dr Johnson, and
Burke, and realising the parable of the good Samaritan. Yet his conduct
on the whole could not be defended.

His next poem was "The Ghost," which he published in parts, and continued
at intervals. It was a kind of rhymed diary or waste-book, in which he
deposited his every-day thoughts and feelings, without any order or
plan,--reminding us of "Tristram Shandy" or of "Don Juan," although not
so whimsically delightful as the former, nor so brilliant and poignant as
the latter.

But now, in 1762, the Poet was to degrade or to sublimate into the
Politician, at the bidding of that gay magician, Jack Wilkes. That this
man was much better than a clever and pre-eminently lucky scoundrel, is
now denied by few. He had, indeed, immense _pluck_ and convivial
pleasantry, with considerable learning and talent. But he had no
principle, no character, little power of writing, and did not even
possess a particle of that mob eloquence which seduces multitudes. His
depravities and vices were far too gross even for that gross age. In the
very height of his reputation for patriotism, he was intriguing with the
ministry for a place for himself. And he became in his latter days, as
Burke had predicted (for we strongly suspect that Burke wrote the words
in "Junius"), "a silent senator," sate down "infamous and
contented,"--proving that it had only been "the tempest which had lifted
him from his place."

Wilkes introduced himself to Churchill, and they became speedily
intimate. Soon after, indignant at the supremacy of Lord Bute, who, as a
royal favourite, had obtained a power in the country which had not been
equalled since Buckingham fell before the assassin Felton's knife, and
was employing all his influence to patronise the Scotch, Wilkes commenced
the _North Briton_. In this, from the first, he was assisted by
Churchill, who, however, did not write prose so vigorously as verse. He
had sent to the _North Briton_ a biting paper against the Scotch. On
reflection, he recalled and recast it in rhyme. It was "The Prophecy of
Famine;" and became so popular as to make a whole nation his enemies, and
all _their_ enemies his friends. This completely filled up the measure of
Churchill's triumph. He actually dressed his youngest son in the Highland
garb, took him everywhere along with him, and instructed him to say, when
asked why he was thus dressed, "Sir, my father hates the Scotch; and does
it to plague them."

Lord Bute resigned early in 1763, and was succeeded by a ministry
comprising such men as Sir Francis Dashwood, and Lord Sandwich, who had
been intimates of Wilkes, and had shared with him in certain disgusting
orgies at Medmenham Abbey. They now, however, changed their tactics, and
became vehement upholders of morality and religion; and began to watch
their opportunity for pouncing on their quondam associate. This he
himself furnished by the famous _North Briton_, No. 45. That paper may
now seem, to those who read it, a not very powerful, and not very daring
diatribe. But the times were inflammable--the nation was frantic with
rage at the peace--the ministry were young, and willing to flesh their
new-got power in some victim or other; and Wilkes, in this paper, had now
exposed himself to their fury. Warrants were instantly issued to arrest
him and Churchill, as well as the publishers and printers. Wilkes was
newly arrested when Churchill walked into his room. Knowing that his
friend's name was also in the warrant, he adroitly said to Churchill,
"Good morrow, Mr Thomson; how is Mrs Thomson to-day; does _she dine in
the country?_" The poet took the hint--said that she was waiting on
him--took his leave, and retired to the country accordingly.

Immediately after occurred the controversy between Hogarth and our poet.
While Wilkes's case was being tried, and Chief-Justice Pratt, afterwards
Lord Camden, was about to give the memorable decision in favour of the
accused, and in condemnation of general warrants, Hogarth was sitting in
the court, and immortalising Wilkes's villanous squint upon the canvas.
In July 1763, Churchill avenged his friend's quarrel by the savage
personalities of his "Epistle to William Hogarth." Here, while lauding
highly the painter's genius, he denounces his vanity, his envy, and makes
an unmanly and brutal attack on his supposed dotage. Hogarth, within a
month, replied by caricaturing Churchill as a bear with torn clerical
bands, paws in ruffles, a pot of porter in his right hand, and a knot of
LIES and _North Britons_ in his left. Churchill threatened him with a
renewed and severer assault in the shape of an elegy, but was dissuaded
from it by his mistress.

This was Miss Carr, daughter of a respectable sculptor in Westminster,
whom Churchill had seduced. After a fortnight they were both struck with
remorse, agreed to separate, and, through the intercession of a friend,
the young lady was restored to her parents. Rendered miserable, however,
by the taunts of an elder sister, she, in absolute despair, cast herself
again on Churchill's protection, and they remained together till his
death. In his letters we find him, during one of his sober intervals,
living quietly with her in Richmond. In "The Conference," he makes some
allusions to this unhappy affair, and discovers the spirit, if not of
true penitence, certainly of keen remorse, and strong self-crimination.
In the autumn of 1763 he became the comforter of his friend, Lloyd, in
the Fleet, supported him in confinement, and opened a subscription for
the discharge of his heavy debts, which, owing to the backwardness of
others, proved of little service.

Toward the close of this year, the _North Briton_ was ordered to be burnt
by the common hangman; and, on the motion of Lord Sandwich, Wilkes was
handed over for prosecution, for his infamous "Essay on Woman," a parody
on Pope's "Essay on Man"--(one Kidgell, a clergyman, had stolen a copy,
and informed the Government.) Lord Sandwich was backed by Warburton; and
the result was, Wilkes's expulsion from the House of Commons, and his
flight to France. He had previously fought a duel with one Martin, an
M.P., by whom he was severely wounded. All this furnished Churchill with
matter for his "Duellist," which even Horace Walpole pronounced
"glorious." In this vigorous production, he mercilessly lashes Martin,
Kidgell, Warburton, and especially Sandwich. At this time he, too,
purposed a retreat to France--a country where his name was already so
well known, that when the Honourable Mr Churchill, the son of a general
of the name, was asked, in Paris, if he were Churchill, the famous poet,
and replied that he was not, the answer of the Frenchman was, "_So much
the worse for you._" His time, however, to visit that coast, destined to
be so fatal to him, was not yet quite come.

From Richmond he removed to Acton-Common, where he had a house furnished
with great elegance--"kept a post-chaise, saddle-horses, and
pointers--and fished, fowled, hunted, coursed, and lived in an easy
independent manner." There he continued his irregular but rapid and
energetic course of composition, pouring out poem after poem as if he
felt his time to be short, or as if he were spurred on by the secret
stings of misery and remorse. To "The Duellist" succeeded "The
Author,"--a poem more general and less poisoned with personalities than
any of his former. "Gotham," by far the most poetical of his works, came
next. When Lord Sandwich stood for the High-Stewardship of Cambridge,
Churchill's ancient grudge, as well as his itch for satire, revived, and
he improvised "The Candidate," a piece of hasty but terrible sarcasm.
With breathless and portentous rapidity followed "The Farewell," "The
Times," and "Independence," which was his last published production. Two
fragments were found among his MSS., one "A Dedication to Warburton," and
another, "The Journey," his latest effort, and in which the last line now
seems prophetic--

  "_I on my journey all alone proceed_."

A far and final journey was before this great and ill-fated poet. He was
seized with one of those sudden longings to see a friend, which are not
uncommon with the impulsive. He determined to visit Wilkes at Boulogne,
and conveyed his purpose to his brother John in the following
note:--"Dear Jack, adieu, C.C." On the 22d of October 1764, he started
for France, met Wilkes; but on the 29th was seized with miliary fever,
under which, while imprudently removed from his bed to be conveyed at his
own desire to England, his constitution sunk, and he expired on the 4th
of November, in the thirty-third year of his age. He is said to have died
calmly and firmly, rebuking the excessive grief of his friends, and
repeating some manly but not very Christian lines from his own poetry. By
a will made during his sickness, he left an annuity of sixty pounds to
his wife (in addition, we suppose, to her former allowance), fifty pounds
a-year to Miss Carr, besides providing for his two boys, and leaving
mourning rings to his more intimate friends. Wilkes got the charge of all
his works. His body was brought to Dover, where he now sleeps in an old
churchyard, which once belonged to the church of St Martin, with a stone
over him, bearing his age, the date of his death, and this line from one
of his own poems--

  "Life to the last enjoy'd, here Churchill lies."

The words which he is reported to have used on his deathbed, _should_
have been inscribed on the stone--

  "What a fool I have been!"

Hogarth had expired on the 25th of October, ten days before his opponent.
Lloyd was finishing his dinner, when the news of his friend's death
arrived. He was seized with sudden sickness, and crying out, "I shall
soon follow poor Charles," was carried to a bed, whence he was never to
rise. Churchill's favourite sister, Patty, who had been engaged to Lloyd,
soon afterwards sank under the double blow. The premature death of this
most popular of the poets of the time, excited a great sensation. His
furniture and books sold excessively high; a steel pen, for instance, for
five pounds, and a pair of plated spurs for sixteen guineas. Wilkes
talked much about his "dear Churchill," but, with the exception of
burning a MS. fragmentary satire, which Churchill had begun against
Colman and Thornton, _two of his intimate friends_, and erecting an urn
to him near his cottage in the Isle of Wight, with a flaming Latin
inscription, he did nothing for his memory. The poet's brother, John, an
apothecary, survived him only one year; and his two sons, Charles and
John, inherited the vices without the genius of their father. There was,
as late as 1825, a grand-daughter of his, a Mary Churchill, who had been
a governess, surviving as a patient in St George's Hospital,--a
characteristic close to such a wayward, unfortunate race.

For the errors of Churchill, as a man, there does not seem to exist any
plea of palliation, except what may be found in the poverty of his early
circumstances, and in the strength of his later passions. The worst is,
that he never seems to have been seduced into sin through the bewildering
and bewitching mists of imagination. It was naked sensuality that he
appeared to worship, and he always sinned with his eyes open. Yet his
moral sense, though blunted, was never obliterated; and many traits of
generosity and good feeling mingled with his excesses. Choosing satire as
the field of his Muse, was partly the cause and partly the effect of an
imperfect _morale_. We are far from averring that no satirist can be a
good man, but certainly most satirists have either been very good or very
bad men. To the former class have belonged Cowper, Crabbe, &c.; to the
latter, such names as Swift, Dryden, Byron, and, we must add, Churchill.
Robust manhood, honesty, and hatred of pretence, we admit him to have
possessed; but of genuine love to humanity he seems to have been as
destitute as of fear of God, or regard for the ordinary moralities.

We have to deal with him, however, principally as a poet; and there can,
we think, now be but one opinion as to his peculiar merits. He possessed,
beyond all doubt, a strong understanding, a lively imagination, a keen
perception of character--especially in its defects and
weaknesses--considerable wit without any humour, fierce passions and
hatreds, and a boundless command of a loose, careless, but bold and
energetic diction; add to this, a constant tone of self-assertion, and
rugged independence. He was emphatically a John Bull, sublimated. He
rushed into the poetic arena more like a pugilist than a poet, laying
about him on all sides, giving and taking strong blows, and approving
himself, in the phrase of "the fancy," game to the backbone. His faults,
besides those incident to most satirists,--such as undue severity,
intrusion into private life, anger darkening into malignity, and spleen
fermenting into venom,--were carelessness of style, inequality, and want
of condensation. Compared to the satires of Pope, Churchill's are far
less polished, and less pointed. Pope stabs with a silver
bodkin--Churchill hews down his opponent with a broadsword. Pope whispers
a word in his enemy's ear which withers the heart within him, and he
sinks lifeless to the ground; Churchill pours out a torrent of blasting
invective which at once kills and buries his foe. Dryden was his
favourite model; and although he has written no such condensed
masterpieces of satire as the characters of Shaftesbury and Buckingham,
yet his works as a whole are not much inferior, and justify the idea that
had his life been spared, he might have risen to the level of "Glorious
John." His versification, too, is decidedly of the Drydenic type. It is a
free, fierce, rushing, sometimes staggering, race across meadow, moor,
and mountain, dreading nothing except repose and languor, the lines
chasing, and sometimes tumbling over each other in their haste, like
impatient hounds at a fox-hunt. But more than Dryden, we think, has
Churchill displayed the genuine poetic faculty, as well as often a
loftier tone of moral indignation. This latter feeling is the inspiration
of "The Candidate," and of "The Times," which, although coarse in
subject, and coarse in style, burns with a fire of righteous indignation,
reminding you of Juvenal. The finest display of his imaginative power is
in "Gotham," which is throughout a glorious rhapsody, resembling some of
the best prose effusions of Christopher North, and abounding in such
lines as these:--

  "The cedar, whose top mates the highest cloud,
  Whilst his old father Lebanon grows proud
  Of such a child, and _his vast body laid
  Out many a mile, enjoys the filial shade_."

It is of "Gotham" that Cowper says that few writers have equalled it for
its "bold and daring strokes of fancy; its numbers so hazardously
ventured upon, and so happily finished; its matter so compressed, and yet
so clear; its colouring so sparingly laid on, and yet with such a
beautiful effect."

One great objection to Churchill's poetry lies in the temporary interest
of the subjects to which most of it is devoted. The same objection,
however, applies to the letters of Junius, and to the speeches and papers
of Burke; and the same answer to it will avail for all. Junius, by the
charm of his style, by his classic severities, and purged, poignant
venom, contrives to interest us in the paltry political feuds of the
past. Burke's does the same, by the general principles he extracts from,
and by the poetry with which he gilds, the rubbish. And so does
Churchill, by the weighty sense, the vigorous versification, the
inextinguishable spirit, and the trenchant satire and invective of his
song. The wretched intrigues of Newcastle and Bute, the squabbles of the
aldermen and councillors of the day, the petty quarrels of petty patriots
among themselves, and the poverty, spites, and frailties of forgotten
players, are all shown as in a magnifying-glass, and shine upon us
transfigured in the light of the poet's genius.

We have not room for lengthened criticism on all his separate
productions. "The Rosciad" is the most finished, pointed, and Pope-like
of his satires; it has more memorable and quotable lines than any of the
rest. "The Prophecy of Famine" is full of trash; but contains, too, many
lines in which political hatred, through its intense fervour, sparkles
into poetry: such as--

  "No birds except as birds of passage flew;"

the account of the creatures which, when admitted into the ark,

  "Their saviour shunn'd, and rankled in the dark;"

and the famous line--

  "Where half-starved spiders prey on half-starved flies."

"The Ghost" is the least felicitous of all his poems, although its
picture of Pomposo (Dr Johnson) is exceedingly clever. The "Dedication to
Warburton" is a strain of terrible irony, but fails to damage the
Atlantean Bishop. "The Journey" is not only interesting as his last
production, but contains some affecting personal allusions, intermingled
with its stinging scorn--like pale passion-flowers blended with nettles
and nightshade. The most of the others have been already characterised.

Churchill has had two very formidable enemies to his fame and detractors
from his genius--Samuel Johnson and Christopher North. The first
pronounced him "a prolific blockhead," "a huge and fertile crab-tree;"
the second has wielded the knout against his back with peculiar gusto and
emphasis, in a paper on satire and satirists, published in _Blackwood_
for 1828. Had Churchill been alive, he could have easily "retorted
scorn"--set a "Christophero" over against the portrait of "Pomposo:" the
result had been, as always in such cases, a drawn battle; and damage
would have accrued, not to the special literateurs, but to the general
literary character. Prejudice or private pique always lurks at the bottom
of such reckless assaults, and all men in the long run feel so. In
Johnson's case, the _causa belli_ was unquestionably political
difference; and in Christopher North's it was the love of Scotland which
so warmly glowed in his bosom, and which created a glow of hatred no less
warm against Scotland's ablest, fiercest, and most inveterate poetical
foe.

Churchill's poetry only requires to be better known to be highly
appreciated for its masculine and thoroughly English qualities. In taking
our leave of him, we are again haunted by the signal resemblance he
bears, both in mental characteristics and in history, to Byron. Both were
powerful in satire, and still more so in purely poetic composition. Both
were irregular in life, and unfortunate in marriage. Both were
distinguished by fitful generosity, and careless tenderness. Both
obtained at once, and during all their career maintained, a pre-eminence
in popularity over all their contemporaries. Both were severely handled
by reviewers, and underrated by rivals. Both assumed an attitude of
defiance to the world, and stood ostentatiously at bay. Both mingled
largely in the politics of their day, and both took the liberal side.
Both felt and expressed keen remorse for their errors, and purposed and
in part began reformation. Both died at an untimely age by fever, and in
a foreign land. The dust of both, not admitted into Westminster Abbey,
nevertheless reposes in their native soil, and attracts daily visitors,
who lean, and weep, and wonder over it--partly in sympathy with their
fate--partly in pity for their errors--and partly in admiration of their
genius.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTE.--We have not alluded to various anecdotes told about Churchill's
journey to Wales, about his setting up as a cider merchant, &c., because
some of them appear extremely apocryphal. The author of an article on him
in the _Edinburgh Review_ for January 1845 asserts that he was rejected
from Oxford because he had already been married. But, if so, why was he
admitted to Cambridge? Besides, the writer adduces no proof of his
assertion. The paper, otherwise, is worthy of its author and of the poet.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS.

THE ROSCIAD
THE APOLOGY
NIGHT
THE PROPHECY OF FAMINE
AN EPISTLE TO WILLIAM HOGARTH
THE DUELLIST
GOTHAM
THE AUTHOR
THE CONFERENCE
THE GHOST
THE CANDIDATE
THE FAREWELL
THE TIMES
INDEPENDENCE
THE JOURNEY
DEDICATION TO CHURCHILL'S SERMONS
LINES WRITTEN IN WINDSOR PARK

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ROSCIAD.[1]

  Unknowing and unknown, the hardy Muse
  Boldly defies all mean and partial views;
  With honest freedom plays the critic's part,
  And praises, as she censures, from the heart.

Roscius[2] deceased, each high aspiring player
Push'd all his interest for the vacant chair.
The buskin'd heroes of the mimic stage
No longer whine in love, and rant in rage;
The monarch quits his throne, and condescends
Humbly to court the favour of his friends;
For pity's sake tells undeserved mishaps,
And, their applause to gain, recounts his claps.
Thus the victorious chiefs of ancient Rome,
To win the mob, a suppliant's form assume;                         10
In pompous strain fight o'er the extinguish'd war,
And show where honour bled in every scar.
  But though bare merit might in Rome appear
The strongest plea for favour, 'tis not here;
We form our judgment in another way;
And they will best succeed, who best can pay:
Those who would gain the votes of British tribes,
Must add to force of merit, force of bribes.
   What can an actor give? In every age
Cash hath been rudely banish'd from the stage;                     20
Monarchs themselves, to grief of every player,
Appear as often as their image there:
They can't, like candidate for other seat,
Pour seas of wine, and mountains raise of meat.
Wine! they could bribe you with the world as soon,
And of 'Roast Beef,' they only know the tune:
But what they have they give; could Clive[3] do more,
Though for each million he had brought home four?
  Shuter[4] keeps open house at Southwark fair,
And hopes the friends of humour will be there;                     30
In Smithfield, Yates[5] prepares the rival treat
For those who laughter love, instead of meat;
Foote,[6] at Old House,--for even Foote will be,
In self-conceit, an actor,--bribes with tea;
Which Wilkinson[7] at second-hand receives,
And at the New, pours water on the leaves.
  The town divided, each runs several ways,
As passion, humour, interest, party sways.
Things of no moment, colour of the hair,
Shape of a leg, complexion brown or fair,                          40
A dress well chosen, or a patch misplaced,
Conciliate favour, or create distaste.
  From galleries loud peals of laughter roll,
And thunder Shuter's praises; he's so droll.
Embox'd, the ladies must have something smart,
Palmer! oh! Palmer[8] tops the jaunty part.
Seated in pit, the dwarf with aching eyes,
Looks up, and vows that Barry's[9] out of size;
Whilst to six feet the vigorous stripling grown,
Declares that Garrick is another Coan.[10]                         50
  When place of judgment is by whim supplied,
And our opinions have their rise in pride;
When, in discoursing on each mimic elf,
We praise and censure with an eye to self;
All must meet friends, and Ackman[11] bids as fair,
In such a court, as Garrick, for the chair.
  At length agreed, all squabbles to decide,
By some one judge the cause was to be tried;
But this their squabbles did afresh renew,
Who should be judge in such a trial:--who?                         60
  For Johnson some; but Johnson, it was fear'd,
Would be too grave; and Sterne[12] too gay appear'd;
Others for Franklin[13] voted; but 'twas known,
He sicken'd at all triumphs but his own:
For Colman[14] many, but the peevish tongue
Of prudent Age found out that he was young:
For Murphy[15] some few pilfering wits declared,
Whilst Folly clapp'd her hands, and Wisdom stared.
  To mischief train'd, e'en from his mother's womb,
Grown old in fraud, though yet in manhood's bloom,                 70
Adopting arts by which gay villains rise,
And reach the heights which honest men despise;
Mute at the bar, and in the senate loud,
Dull 'mongst the dullest, proudest of the proud;
A pert, prim, prater of the northern race,[16]
Guilt in his heart, and famine in his face,
Stood forth,--and thrice he waved his lily hand,
And thrice he twirled his tye, thrice stroked his band:--
  At Friendship's call (thus oft, with traitorous aim,
Men void of faith usurp Faith's sacred name)                       80
At Friendship's call I come, by Murphy sent,
Who thus by me develops his intent:
But lest, transfused, the spirit should be lost,
That spirit which, in storms of rhetoric toss'd,
Bounces about, and flies like bottled beer,
In his own words his own intentions hear.
  Thanks to my friends; but to vile fortunes born,
No robes of fur these shoulders must adorn.
Vain your applause, no aid from thence I draw;
Vain all my wit, for what is wit in law?                           90
Twice, (cursed remembrance!) twice I strove to gain
Admittance 'mongst the law-instructed train,
Who, in the Temple and Gray's Inn, prepare
For clients' wretched feet the legal snare;
Dead to those arts which polish and refine,
Deaf to all worth, because that worth was mine,
Twice did those blockheads startle at my name,
And foul rejection gave me up to shame.
To laws and lawyers then I bade adieu,
And plans of far more liberal note pursue.                        100
Who will may be a judge--my kindling breast
Burns for that chair which Roscius once possess'd.
Here give your votes, your interest here exert,
And let success for once attend desert.
  With sleek appearance, and with ambling pace,
And, type of vacant head, with vacant face,
The Proteus Hill[17] put in his modest plea,--
Let Favour speak for others, Worth for me.--
For who, like him, his various powers could call
Into so many shapes, and shine in all?                            110
Who could so nobly grace the motley list,
Actor, Inspector, Doctor, Botanist?
Knows any one so well--sure no one knows--
At once to play, prescribe, compound, compose?
Who can--but Woodward[18] came,--Hill slipp'd away,
Melting, like ghosts, before the rising day.
  With that low cunning, which in fools[19] supplies,
And amply too, the place of being wise,
Which Nature, kind, indulgent parent, gave
To qualify the blockhead for a knave;                             120
With that smooth falsehood, whose appearance charms,
And Reason of each wholesome doubt disarms,
Which to the lowest depths of guile descends,
By vilest means pursues the vilest ends;
Wears Friendship's mask for purposes of spite,
Pawns in the day, and butchers in the night;
With that malignant envy which turns pale,
And sickens, even if a friend prevail,
Which merit and success pursues with hate,
And damns the worth it cannot imitate;                            130
With the cold caution of a coward's spleen,
Which fears not guilt, but always seeks a screen,
Which keeps this maxim ever in her view--
What's basely done, should be done safely too;
With that dull, rooted, callous impudence,
Which, dead to shame and every nicer sense,
Ne'er blush'd, unless, in spreading Vice's snares,
She blunder'd on some virtue unawares;
With all these blessings, which we seldom find
Lavish'd by Nature on one happy mind,                             140
A motley figure, of the Fribble tribe,
Which heart can scarce conceive, or pen describe,
Came simpering on--to ascertain whose sex
Twelve sage impannell'd matrons would perplex.
Nor male, nor female; neither, and yet both;
Of neuter gender, though of Irish growth;
A six-foot suckling, mincing in Its gait;
Affected, peevish, prim, and delicate;
Fearful It seem'd, though of athletic make,
Lest brutal breezes should too roughly shake                      150
Its tender form, and savage motion spread,
O'er Its pale cheeks, the horrid manly red.
  Much did It talk, in Its own pretty phrase,
Of genius and of taste, of players and of plays;
Much too of writings, which Itself had wrote,
Of special merit, though of little note;
For Fate, in a strange humour, had decreed
That what It wrote, none but Itself should read;
Much, too, It chatter'd of dramatic laws,
Misjudging critics, and misplaced applause;                       160
Then, with a self-complacent, jutting air,
It smiled, It smirk'd, It wriggled to the chair;
And, with an awkward briskness not Its own,
Looking around, and perking on the throne,
Triumphant seem'd; when that strange savage dame,
Known but to few, or only known by name,
Plain Common-Sense appear'd, by Nature there
Appointed, with plain Truth, to guard the chair,
The pageant saw, and, blasted with her frown,
To Its first state of nothing melted down.                        170
  Nor shall the Muse, (for even there the pride
Of this vain nothing shall be mortified)
Nor shall the Muse (should Fate ordain her rhymes,
Fond, pleasing thought! to live in after-times)
With such a trifler's name her pages blot;
Known be the character, the thing forgot:
Let It, to disappoint each future aim,
Live without sex, and die without a name!
  Cold-blooded critics, by enervate sires
Scarce hammer'd out, when Nature's feeble fires                   180
Glimmer'd their last; whose sluggish blood, half froze,
Creeps labouring through the veins; whose heart ne'er glows
With fancy-kindled heat;--a servile race,
Who, in mere want of fault, all merit place;
Who blind obedience pay to ancient schools,
Bigots to Greece, and slaves to musty rules;
With solemn consequence declared that none
Could judge that cause but Sophocles alone.
Dupes to their fancied excellence, the crowd,
Obsequious to the sacred dictate, bow'd.                          190
  When, from amidst the throng, a youth stood forth,[20]
Unknown his person, not unknown his worth;
His look bespoke applause; alone he stood,
Alone he stemm'd the mighty critic flood.
He talk'd of ancients, as the man became
Who prized our own, but envied not their fame;
With noble reverence spoke of Greece and Rome,
And scorn'd to tear the laurel from the tomb.
  But, more than just to other countries grown,
Must we turn base apostates to our own?                           200
Where do these words of Greece and Rome excel,
That England may not please the ear as well?
What mighty magic's in the place or air,
That all perfection needs must centre there?
In states, let strangers blindly be preferr'd;
In state of letters, merit should be heard.
Genius is of no country; her pure ray
Spreads all abroad, as general as the day;
Foe to restraint, from place to place she flies,
And may hereafter e'en in Holland rise.                           210
May not, (to give a pleasing fancy scope,
And cheer a patriot heart with patriot hope)
May not some great extensive genius raise
The name of Britain 'bove Athenian praise;
And, whilst brave thirst of fame his bosom warms,
Make England great in letters as in arms?
There may--there hath,--and Shakspeare's Muse aspires
Beyond the reach of Greece; with native fires
Mounting aloft, he wings his daring flight,
Whilst Sophocles below stands trembling at his height.            220
  Why should we then abroad for judges roam,
When abler judges we may find at home?
Happy in tragic and in comic powers,
Have we not Shakspeare?--Is not Jonson ours?
For them, your natural judges, Britons, vote;
They'll judge like Britons, who like Britons wrote.
  He said, and conquer'd--Sense resumed her sway,
And disappointed pedants stalk'd away.
Shakspeare and Jonson, with deserved applause,
Joint-judges were ordain'd to try the cause.                      230
Meantime the stranger every voice employ'd,
To ask or tell his name. Who is it? Lloyd.
  Thus, when the aged friends of Job stood mute,
And, tamely prudent, gave up the dispute,
Elihu, with the decent warmth of youth,
Boldly stood forth the advocate of Truth;
Confuted Falsehood, and disabled Pride,
Whilst baffled Age stood snarling at his side.
  The day of trial's fix'd, nor any fear
Lest day of trial should be put off here.                         240
Causes but seldom for delay can call
In courts where forms are few, fees none at all.
  The morning came, nor find I that the Sun,
As he on other great events hath done,
Put on a brighter robe than what he wore
To go his journey in, the day before.
  Full in the centre of a spacious plain,
On plan entirely new, where nothing vain,
Nothing magnificent appear'd, but Art
With decent modesty perform'd her part,                           250
Rose a tribunal: from no other court
It borrow'd ornament, or sought support:
No juries here were pack'd to kill or clear,
No bribes were taken, nor oaths broken here;
No gownsmen, partial to a client's cause,
To their own purpose turn'd the pliant laws;
Each judge was true and steady to his trust,
As Mansfield wise, and as old Foster[21] just.
  In the first seat, in robe of various dyes,
A noble wildness flashing from his eyes,                          260
Sat Shakspeare: in one hand a wand he bore,
For mighty wonders famed in days of yore;
The other held a globe, which to his will
Obedient turn'd, and own'd the master's skill:
Things of the noblest kind his genius drew,
And look'd through Nature at a single view:
A loose he gave to his unbounded soul,
And taught new lands to rise, new seas to roll;
Call'd into being scenes unknown before,
And passing Nature's bounds, was something more.                  270
  Next Jonson sat, in ancient learning train'd,
His rigid judgment Fancy's flights restrain'd;
Correctly pruned each wild luxuriant thought,
Mark'd out her course, nor spared a glorious fault.
The book of man he read with nicest art,
And ransack'd all the secrets of the heart;
Exerted penetration's utmost force,
And traced each passion to its proper source;
Then, strongly mark'd, in liveliest colours drew,
And brought each foible forth to public view:                     280
The coxcomb felt a lash in every word,
And fools, hung out, their brother fools deterr'd.
His comic humour kept the world in awe,
And Laughter frighten'd Folly more than Law.
  But, hark! the trumpet sounds, the crowd gives way,
And the procession comes in just array.
  Now should I, in some sweet poetic line,
Offer up incense at Apollo's shrine,
Invoke the Muse to quit her calm abode,
And waken Memory with a sleeping Ode.[22]                         290
For how shall mortal man, in mortal verse,
Their titles, merits, or their names rehearse?
But give, kind Dulness! memory and rhyme,
We 'll put off Genius till another time.
  First, Order came,--with solemn step, and slow,
In measured time his feet were taught to go.
Behind, from time to time, he cast his eye,
Lest this should quit his place, that step awry.
Appearances to save his only care;
So things seem right, no matter what they are.                    300
In him his parents saw themselves renew'd,
Begotten by Sir Critic on Saint Prude.
  Then came drum, trumpet, hautboy, fiddle, flute;
Next snuffer, sweeper, shifter, soldier, mute:
Legions of angels all in white advance;
Furies, all fire, come forward in a dance;
Pantomime figures then are brought to view,
Fools, hand in hand with fools, go two by two.
Next came the treasurer of either house;
One with full purse, t'other with not a sous.                     310
Behind, a group of figures awe create,
Set off with all the impertinence of state;
By lace and feather consecrate to fame,
Expletive kings, and queens without a name.
  Here Havard,[23] all serene, in the same strains,
Loves, hates, and rages, triumphs and complains;
His easy vacant face proclaim'd a heart
Which could not feel emotions, nor impart.
With him came mighty Davies:[24] on my life,
That Davies hath a very pretty wife!                              320
Statesman all over, in plots famous grown,
He mouths a sentence, as curs mouth a bone.
  Next Holland[25] came: with truly tragic stalk,
He creeps, he flies,--a hero should not walk.
As if with Heaven he warr'd, his eager eyes
Planted their batteries against the skies;
Attitude, action, air, pause, start, sigh, groan,
He borrow'd, and made use of as his own.
By fortune thrown on any other stage,
He might, perhaps, have pleased an easy age;                      330
But now appears a copy, and no more,
Of something better we have seen before.
The actor who would build a solid fame,
Must Imitation's servile arts disclaim;
Act from himself, on his own bottom stand;
I hate e'en Garrick thus at second-hand.
  Behind came King.[26]--Bred up in modest lore,
Bashful and young, he sought Hibernia's shore;
Hibernia, famed, 'bove every other grace,
For matchless intrepidity of face.                                340
From her his features caught the generous flame,
And bid defiance to all sense of shame.
Tutor'd by her all rivals to surpass,
'Mongst Drury's sons he comes, and shines in Brass.
  Lo, Yates[27]! Without the least finesse of art
He gets applause--I wish he'd get his part.
When hot Impatience is in full career,
How vilely 'Hark ye! hark ye!' grates the ear;
When active fancy from the brain is sent,
And stands on tip-toe for some wish'd event,                      350
I hate those careless blunders, which recall
Suspended sense, and prove it fiction all.
  In characters of low and vulgar mould,
Where Nature's coarsest features we behold;
Where, destitute of every decent grace,
Unmanner'd jests are blurted in your face,
There Yates with justice strict attention draws,
Acts truly from himself, and gains applause.
But when, to please himself or charm his wife,
He aims at something in politer life,                             360
When, blindly thwarting Nature's stubborn plan,
He treads the stage by way of gentleman,
The clown, who no one touch of breeding knows,
Looks like Tom Errand[28] dress'd in Clincher's clothes.
Fond of his dress, fond of his person grown,
Laugh'd at by all, and to himself unknown,
Prom side to side he struts, he smiles, he prates,
And seems to wonder what's become of Yates.
  Woodward[29], endow'd with various tricks of face,
Great master in the science of grimace,                           370
From Ireland ventures, favourite of the town,
Lured by the pleasing prospect of renown;
A speaking harlequin, made up of whim,
He twists, he twines, he tortures every limb;
Plays to the eye with a mere monkey's art,
And leaves to sense the conquest of the heart.
We laugh indeed, but, on reflection's birth,
We wonder at ourselves, and curse our mirth.
His walk of parts he fatally misplaced,
And inclination fondly took for taste;                            380
Hence hath the town so often seen display'd
Beau in burlesque, high life in masquerade.
  But when bold wits,--not such as patch up plays,
Cold and correct, in these insipid days,--
Some comic character, strong featured, urge
To probability's extremest verge;
Where modest Judgment her decree suspends,
And, for a time, nor censures, nor commends;
Where critics can't determine on the spot
Whether it is in nature found or not,                             390
There Woodward safely shall his powers exert,
Nor fail of favour where he shows desert;
Hence he in Bobadil such praises bore,
Such worthy praises, Kitely[30] scarce had more.
  By turns transform'd into all kind of shapes,
Constant to none, Foote laughs, cries, struts, and scrapes:
Now in the centre, now in van or rear,
The Proteus shifts, bawd, parson, auctioneer.
His strokes of humour, and his bursts of sport,
Are all contain'd in this one word--distort.                      400
  Doth a man stutter, look a-squint, or halt?
Mimics draw humour out of Nature's fault,
With personal defects their mirth adorn,
And bang misfortunes out to public scorn.
E'en I, whom Nature cast in hideous mould,
Whom, having made, she trembled to behold,
Beneath the load of mimicry may groan,
And find that Nature's errors are my own.
  Shadows behind of Foote and Woodward came;
Wilkinson this, Obrien[31] was that name.                         410
Strange to relate, but wonderfully true,
That even shadows have their shadows too!
With not a single comic power endued,
The first a mere, mere mimic's mimic stood;
The last, by Nature form'd to please, who shows,
In Johnson's Stephen, which way genius grows,
Self quite put off, affects with too much art
To put on Woodward in each mangled part;
Adopts his shrug, his wink, his stare; nay, more,
His voice, and croaks; for Woodward croak'd before.               420
When a dull copier simple grace neglects,
And rests his imitation in defects,
We readily forgive; but such vile arts
Are double guilt in men of real parts.
  By Nature form'd in her perversest mood,
With no one requisite of art endued,
Next Jackson came[32]--Observe that settled glare,
Which better speaks a puppet than a player;
List to that voice--did ever Discord hear
Sounds so well fitted to her untuned ear?                         430
When to enforce some very tender part,
The right hand slips by instinct on the heart,
His soul, of every other thought bereft,
Is anxious only where to place the left;
He sobs and pants to soothe his weeping spouse;
To soothe his weeping mother, turns and bows:
Awkward, embarrass'd, stiff, without the skill
Of moving gracefully, or standing still,
One leg, as if suspicious of his brother,
Desirous seems to run away from t'other.                          440
  Some errors, handed down from age to age,
Plead custom's force, and still possess the stage.
That's vile: should we a parent's faults adore,
And err, because our fathers err'd before?
If, inattentive to the author's mind,
Some actors made the jest they could not find;
If by low tricks they marr'd fair Nature's mien,
And blurr'd the graces of the simple scene,
Shall we, if reason rightly is employ'd,
Not see their faults, or seeing, not avoid?                       450
When Falstaff stands detected in a lie,
Why, without meaning, rolls Love's[33] glassy eye?
Why? There's no cause--at least no cause we know--
It was the fashion twenty years ago.
Fashion!--a word which knaves and fools may use,
Their knavery and folly to excuse.
To copy beauties, forfeits all pretence
To fame--to copy faults, is want of sense.
Yet (though in some particulars he fails,
Some few particulars, where mode prevails)                        460
If in these hallow'd times, when, sober, sad,
All gentlemen are melancholy mad;
When 'tis not deem'd so great a crime by half
To violate a vestal as to laugh,
Rude mirth may hope, presumptuous, to engage
An act of toleration for the stage;
And courtiers will, like reasonable creatures,
Suspend vain fashion, and unscrew their features;
Old Falstaff, play'd by Love, shall please once more,
And humour set the audience in a roar.                            470
  Actors I've seen, and of no vulgar name,
Who, being from one part possess'd of fame,
Whether they are to laugh, cry, whine, or bawl,
Still introduce that favourite part in all.
Here, Love, be cautious--ne'er be thou betray'd
To call in that wag Falstaff's dangerous aid;
Like Goths of old, howe'er he seems a friend,
He'll seize that throne you wish him to defend.
In a peculiar mould by Humour cast,
For Falstaff framed--himself the first and last--                 480
He stands aloof from all--maintains his state,
And scorns, like Scotsmen, to assimilate.
Vain all disguise--too plain we see the trick,
Though the knight wears the weeds of Dominic[34];
And Boniface[35] disgraced, betrays the smack,
In _anno Domini_, of Falstaff sack.
  Arms cross'd, brows bent, eyes fix'd, feet marching slow,
A band of malcontents with spleen o'erflow;
Wrapt in Conceit's impenetrable fog,
Which Pride, like Phoebus, draws from every bog,                  490
They curse the managers, and curse the town
Whose partial favour keeps such merit down.
  But if some man, more hardy than the rest,
Should dare attack these gnatlings in their nest,
At once they rise with impotence of rage,
Whet their small stings, and buzz about the stage:
'Tis breach of privilege! Shall any dare
To arm satiric truth against a player?
Prescriptive rights we plead, time out of mind;
Actors, unlash'd themselves, may lash mankind.                    500
  What! shall Opinion then, of nature free,
And liberal as the vagrant air, agree
To rust in chains like these, imposed by things,
Which, less than nothing, ape the pride of kings?
No--though half-poets with half-players join
To curse the freedom of each honest line;
Though rage and malice dim their faded cheek,
What the Muse freely thinks, she'll freely speak;
With just disdain of every paltry sneer,
Stranger alike to flattery and fear,                              510
In purpose fix'd, and to herself a rule,
Public contempt shall wait the public fool.
  Austin[36] would always glisten in French silks;
Ackman would Norris be, and Packer, Wilkes:
For who, like Ackman, can with humour please;
Who can, like Packer, charm with sprightly ease?
Higher than all the rest, see Bransby strut:
A mighty Gulliver in Lilliput!
Ludicrous Nature! which at once could show
A man so very high, so very low!                                  520
  If I forget thee, Blakes, or if I say
Aught hurtful, may I never see thee play.
Let critics, with a supercilious air,
Decry thy various merit, and declare
Frenchman is still at top; but scorn that rage
Which, in attacking thee, attacks the age.
French follies, universally embraced,
At once provoke our mirth, and form our taste.
  Long, from a nation ever hardly used,
At random censured, wantonly abused,                              530
Have Britons drawn their sport; with partial view
Form'd general notions from the rascal few;
Condemn'd a people, as for vices known,
Which from their country banish'd, seek our own.
At length, howe'er, the slavish chain is broke,
And Sense, awaken'd, scorns her ancient yoke:
Taught by thee, Moody[37], we now learn to raise
Mirth from their foibles; from their virtues, praise.
  Next came the legion which our summer Bayes[38],
From alleys, here and there, contrived to raise,                  540
Flush'd with vast hopes, and certain to succeed,
With wits who cannot write, and scarce can read.
Veterans no more support the rotten cause,
No more from Elliot's[39] worth they reap applause;
Each on himself determines to rely;
Be Yates disbanded, and let Elliot fly.
Never did players so well an author fit,
To Nature dead, and foes declared to wit.
So loud each tongue, so empty was each head,
So much they talk'd, so very little said,                         550
So wondrous dull, and yet so wondrous vain,
At once so willing, and unfit to reign,
That Reason swore, nor would the oath recall,
Their mighty master's soul inform'd them all.
  As one with various disappointments sad,
Whom dulness only kept from being mad,
Apart from all the rest great Murphy came--
Common to fools and wits, the rage of fame.
What though the sons of Nonsense hail him Sire,
Auditor, Author, Manager, and Squire,                             560
His restless soul's ambition stops not there;
To make his triumphs perfect, dub him Player.
  In person tall, a figure form'd to please,
If symmetry could charm deprived of ease;
When motionless he stands, we all approve;
What pity 'tis the thing was made to move.
His voice, in one dull, deep, unvaried sound,
Seems to break forth from caverns under ground;
From hollow chest the low sepulchral note
Unwilling heaves, and struggles in his throat.                    570
  Could authors butcher'd give an actor grace,
All must to him resign the foremost place.
When he attempts, in some one favourite part,
To ape the feelings of a manly heart,
His honest features the disguise defy,
And his face loudly gives his tongue the lie.
  Still in extremes, he knows no happy mean,
Or raving mad, or stupidly serene.
In cold-wrought scenes, the lifeless actor flags;
In passion, tears the passion into rags.                          580
Can none remember? Yes--I know all must--
When in the Moor he ground his teeth to dust,
When o'er the stage he Folly's standard bore,
Whilst Common-Sense stood trembling at the door.
  How few are found with real talents blest!
Fewer with Nature's gifts contented rest.
Man from his sphere eccentric starts astray:
All hunt for fame, but most mistake the way.
Bred at St Omer's to the shuffling trade,
The hopeful youth a Jesuit might have made;                       590
With various readings stored his empty skull,
Learn'd without sense, and venerably dull;
Or, at some banker's desk, like many more,
Content to tell that two and two make four;
His name had stood in City annals fair,
And prudent Dulness mark'd him for a mayor.
  What, then, could tempt thee, in a critic age,
Such blooming hopes to forfeit on a stage?
Could it be worth thy wondrous waste of pains
To publish to the world thy lack of brains?                       600
Or might not Reason e'en to thee have shown,
Thy greatest praise had been to live unknown?
Yet let not vanity like thine despair:
Fortune makes Folly her peculiar care.
  A vacant throne, high-placed in Smithfield, view.
To sacred Dulness and her first-born due,
Thither with haste in happy hour repair,
Thy birthright claim, nor fear a rival there.
Shuter himself shall own thy juster claim,
And venal Ledgers[40] puff their Murphy's name;                   610
Whilst Vaughan[41], or Dapper, call him which you will,
Shall blow the trumpet, and give out the bill.
  There rule, secure from critics and from sense,
Nor once shall Genius rise to give offence;
Eternal peace shall bless the happy shore,
And little factions[42] break thy rest no more.
  From Covent Garden crowds promiscuous go,
Whom the Muse knows not, nor desires to know;
Veterans they seem'd, but knew of arms no more
Than if, till that time, arms they never bore:                    620
Like Westminster militia[43] train'd to fight,
They scarcely knew the left hand from the right.
Ashamed among such troops to show the head,
Their chiefs were scatter'd, and their heroes fled.
  Sparks[44] at his glass sat comfortably down
To separate frown from smile, and smile from frown.
Smith,[45] the genteel, the airy, and the smart,
Smith was just gone to school to say his part.
Ross[46] (a misfortune which we often meet)
Was fast asleep at dear Statira's[47]  feet;                      630
Statira, with her hero to agree,
Stood on her feet as fast asleep as he.
Macklin[48], who largely deals in half-form'd sounds,
Who wantonly transgresses Nature's bounds,
Whose acting's hard, affected, and constrain'd,
Whose features, as each other they disdain'd,
At variance set, inflexible and coarse,
Ne'er know the workings of united force,
Ne'er kindly soften to each other's aid,
Nor show the mingled powers of light and shade;                   640
No longer for a thankless stage concern'd,
To worthier thoughts his mighty genius turn'd,
Harangued, gave lectures, made each simple elf
Almost as good a speaker as himself;
Whilst the whole town, mad with mistaken zeal,
An awkward rage for elocution feel;
Dull cits and grave divines his praise proclaim,
And join with Sheridan's[49] their Macklin's name.
Shuter, who never cared a single pin
Whether he left out nonsense, or put in,                          650
Who aim'd at wit, though, levell'd in the dark,
The random arrow seldom hit the mark,
At Islington[50], all by the placid stream
Where city swains in lap of Dulness dream,
Where quiet as her strains their strains do flow,
That all the patron by the bards may know,
Secret as night, with Rolt's[51] experienced aid,
The plan of future operations laid,
Projected schemes the summer months to cheer,
And spin out happy folly through the year.                        660
  But think not, though these dastard chiefs are fled,
That Covent Garden troops shall want a head:
Harlequin comes their chief! See from afar
The hero seated in fantastic car!
Wedded to Novelty, his only arms
Are wooden swords, wands, talismans, and charms;
On one side Folly sits, by some call'd Fun,
And on the other his arch-patron, Lun;[52]
Behind, for liberty athirst in vain,
Sense, helpless captive, drags the galling chain:                 670
Six rude misshapen beasts the chariot draw,
Whom Reason loathes, and Nature never saw,
Monsters with tails of ice, and heads of fire;
'Gorgons, and Hydras, and Chimeras dire.'
Each was bestrode by full as monstrous wight,
Giant, dwarf, genius, elf, hermaphrodite.
The Town, as usual, met him in full cry;
The Town, as usual, knew no reason why:
But Fashion so directs, and Moderns raise
On Fashion's mouldering base their transient praise.              680
  Next, to the field a band of females draw
Their force, for Britain owns no Salique law:
Just to their worth, we female rights admit,
Nor bar their claim to empire or to wit.
  First giggling, plotting chambermaids arrive,
Hoydens and romps, led on by General Clive.[53]
In spite of outward blemishes, she shone,
For humour famed, and humour all her own:
Easy, as if at home, the stage she trod,
Nor sought the critic's praise, nor fear'd his rod:               690
Original in spirit and in ease,
She pleased by hiding all attempts to please:
No comic actress ever yet could raise,
On Humour's base, more merit or more praise.
  With all the native vigour of sixteen,
Among the merry troop conspicuous seen,
See lively Pope[54] advance, in jig, and trip
Corinna, Cherry, Honeycomb, and Snip:
Not without art, but yet to nature true,
She charms the town with humour just, yet new:                    700
Cheer'd by her promise, we the less deplore
The fatal time when Olive shall be no more.
  Lo! Vincent[55] comes! With simple grace array'd,
She laughs at paltry arts, and scorns parade:
Nature through her is by reflection shown,
Whilst Gay once more knows Polly for his own.
  Talk not to me of diffidence and fear--
I see it all, but must forgive it here;
Defects like these, which modest terrors cause,
From Impudence itself extort applause.                            710
Candour and Reason still take Virtue's part;
We love e'en foibles in so good a heart.
  Let Tommy Arne[56],--with usual pomp of style,
Whose chief, whose only merit's to compile;
Who, meanly pilfering here and there a bit,
Deals music out as Murphy deals out wit,--
Publish proposals, laws for taste prescribe,
And chaunt the praise of an Italian tribe;
Let him reverse kind Nature's first decrees,
And teach e'en Brent[57] a method not to please;                  720
But never shall a truly British age
Bear a vile race of eunuchs on the stage;
The boasted work's call'd national in vain,
If one Italian voice pollutes the strain.
Where tyrants rule, and slaves with joy obey,
Let slavish minstrels pour the enervate lay;
To Britons far more noble pleasures spring,
In native notes whilst Beard and Vincent[58] sing.
  Might figure give a title unto fame,
What rival should with Yates[59] dispute her claim?               730
But justice may not partial trophies raise,
Nor sink the actress' in the woman's praise.
Still hand in hand her words and actions go,
And the heart feels more than the features show;
For, through the regions of that beauteous face
We no variety of passions trace;
Dead to the soft emotions of the heart,
No kindred softness can those eyes impart:
The brow, still fix'd in sorrow's sullen frame,
Void of distinction, marks all parts the same.                    740
  What's a fine person, or a beauteous face,
Unless deportment gives them decent grace?
Bless'd with all other requisites to please,
Some want the striking elegance of ease;
The curious eye their awkward movement tires;
They seem like puppets led about by wires.
Others, like statues, in one posture still,
Give great ideas of the workman's skill;
Wond'ring, his art we praise the more we view,
And only grieve he gave not motion too.                           750
Weak of themselves are what we beauties call,
It is the manner which gives strength to all;
This teaches every beauty to unite,
And brings them forward in the noblest light;
Happy in this, behold, amidst the throng,
With transient gleam of grace, Hart[60] sweeps along.
  If all the wonders of external grace,
A person finely turn'd, a mould of face,
Where--union rare--expression's lively force
With beauty's softest magic holds discourse,                      760
Attract the eye; if feelings, void of art,
Rouse the quick passions, and inflame the heart;
If music, sweetly breathing from the tongue,
Captives the ear, Bride[61] must not pass unsung.
  When fear, which rank ill-nature terms conceit,
By time and custom conquer'd, shall retreat;
When judgment, tutor'd by experience sage,
Shall shoot abroad, and gather strength from age;
When Heaven, in mercy, shall the stage release
From the dull slumbers of a still-life piece;                     770
When some stale flower[62], disgraceful to the walk,
Which long hath hung, though wither'd, on the stalk,
Shall kindly drop, then Bride shall make her way,
And merit find a passage to the day;
Brought into action, she at once shall raise
Her own renown, and justify our praise.
  Form'd for the tragic scene, to grace the stage
With rival excellence of love and rage;
Mistress of each soft art, with matchless skill
To turn and wind the passions as she will;                        780
To melt the heart with sympathetic woe,
Awake the sigh, and teach the tear to flow;
To put on frenzy's wild, distracted glare,
And freeze the soul with horror and despair;
With just desert enroll'd in endless fame,
Conscious of worth superior, Cibber[63] came.
  When poor Alicia's madd'ning brains are rack'd,
And strongly imaged griefs her mind distract,
Struck with her grief, I catch the madness too,
My brain turns round, the headless trunk I view!                  790
The roof cracks, shakes, and falls--new horrors rise,
And Reason buried in the ruin lies!
  Nobly disdainful of each slavish art,
She makes her first attack upon the heart;
Pleased with the summons, it receives her laws,
And all is silence, sympathy, applause.
  But when, by fond ambition drawn aside,
Giddy with praise, and puff'd with female pride,
She quits the tragic scene, and, in pretence
To comic merit, breaks down nature's fence,                       800
I scarcely can believe my ears or eyes,
Or find out Cibber through the dark disguise.
  Pritchard[64], by Nature for the stage design'd,
In person graceful, and in sense refined;
Her art as much as Nature's friend became,
Her voice as free from blemish as her fame,
Who knows so well in majesty to please,
Attemper'd with the graceful charms of ease?
  When, Congreve's favoured pantomime[65] to grace,
She comes a captive queen, of Moorish race;                       810
When love, hate, jealousy, despair, and rage
With wildest tumults in her breast engage,
Still equal to herself is Zara seen;
Her passions are the passions of a queen.
  When she to murder whets the timorous Thane,[66]
I feel ambition rush through every vein;
Persuasion hangs upon her daring tongue,
My heart grows flint, and every nerve's new strung.
  In comedy--Nay, there, cries Critic, hold;
Pritchard's for comedy too fat and old:                           820
Who can, with patience, bear the gray coquette,
Or force a laugh with over-grown Julett?[67]
Her speech, look, action, humour, all are just,
But then, her age and figure give disgust.
  Are foibles, then, and graces of the mind,
In real life, to size or age confined?
Do spirits flow, and is good-breeding placed
In any set circumference of waist?
As we grow old, doth affectation cease,
Or gives not age new vigour to caprice?                           830
If in originals these things appear,
Why should we bar them in the copy here?
The nice punctilio-mongers of this age,
The grand minute reformers of the stage,
Slaves to propriety of every kind,
Some standard measure for each part should find,
Which, when the best of actors shall exceed,
Let it devolve to one of smaller breed.
All actors, too, upon the back should bear
Certificate of birth; time, when; place, where;                   840
For how can critics rightly fix their worth,
Unless they know the minute of their birth?
An audience, too, deceived, may find, too late,
That they have clapp'd an actor out of date.
  Figure, I own, at first may give offence,
And harshly strike the eye's too curious sense;
But when perfections of the mind break forth,
Humour's chaste sallies, judgment's solid worth;
When the pure genuine flame by Nature taught,
Springs into sense and every action's thought;                    850
Before such merit all objections fly--
Pritchard's genteel, and Garrick's six feet high.
  Oft have I, Pritchard, seen thy wondrous skill,
Confess'd thee great, but find thee greater still;
That worth, which shone in scatter'd rays before,
Collected now, breaks forth with double power.
The 'Jealous Wife!'[68] on that thy trophies raise,
Inferior only to the author's praise.
  From Dublin, famed in legends of romance
For mighty magic of enchanted lance,                              860
With which her heroes arm'd, victorious prove,
And, like a flood, rush o'er the land of Love,
Mossop and Barry came--names ne'er design'd
By Fate in the same sentence to be join'd.
Raised by the breath of popular acclaim,
They mounted to the pinnacle of fame;
There the weak brain, made giddy with the height,
Spurr'd on the rival chiefs to mortal fight.
Thus sportive boys, around some basin's brim,
Behold the pipe-drawn bladders circling swim;                     870
But if, from lungs more potent, there arise
Two bubbles of a more than common size,
Eager for honour, they for fight prepare,
Bubble meets bubble, and both sink to air.
  Mossop[69] attach'd to military plan,
Still kept his eye fix'd on his right-hand[70] man;
Whilst the mouth measures words with seeming skill,
The right hand labours, and the left lies still;
For he, resolved on Scripture grounds to go,
What the right doth, the left-hand shall not know,                880
With studied impropriety of speech,
He soars beyond the hackney critic's reach;
To epithets allots emphatic state,
Whilst principals, ungraced, like lackeys wait;
In ways first trodden by himself excels,
And stands alone in indeclinables;
Conjunction, preposition, adverb join
To stamp new vigour on the nervous line;
In monosyllables his thunders roll,
He, she, it, and we, ye, they, fright the soul.                   890
  In person taller than the common size,
Behold where Barry[71] draws admiring eyes!
When labouring passions, in his bosom pent,
Convulsive rage, and struggling heave for vent;
Spectators, with imagined terrors warm,
Anxious expect the bursting of the storm:
But, all unfit in such a pile to dwell,
His voice comes forth, like Echo from her cell,
To swell the tempest needful aid denies,
And all adown the stage in feeble murmurs dies.                   900
  What man, like Barry, with such pains, can err
In elocution, action, character?
What man could give, if Barry was not here,
Such well applauded tenderness to Lear?
Who else can speak so very, very fine,
That sense may kindly end with every line?
  Some dozen lines before the ghost is there,
Behold him for the solemn scene prepare:
See how he frames his eyes, poises each limb,
Puts the whole body into proper trim:--                           910
From whence we learn, with no great stretch of art,
Five lines hence comes a ghost, and, ha! a start.
  When he appears most perfect, still we find
Something which jars upon and hurts the mind:
Whatever lights upon a part are thrown,
We see too plainly they are not his own:
No flame from Nature ever yet he caught,
Nor knew a feeling which he was not taught:
He raised his trophies on the base of art,
And conn'd his passions, as he conn'd his part.                   920
  Quin,[72] from afar, lured by the scent of fame,
A stage leviathan, put in his claim,
Pupil of Betterton[73] and Booth. Alone,
Sullen he walk'd, and deem'd the chair his own:
For how should moderns, mushrooms of the day,
Who ne'er those masters knew, know how to play?
Gray-bearded veterans, who, with partial tongue,
Extol the times when they themselves were young,
Who, having lost all relish for the stage,
See not their own defects, but lash the age,                      930
Received, with joyful murmurs of applause,
Their darling chief, and lined[74] his favourite cause.
  Far be it from the candid Muse to tread
Insulting o'er the ashes of the dead:
But, just to living merit, she maintains,
And dares the test, whilst Garrick's genius reigns,
Ancients in vain endeavour to excel,
Happily praised, if they could act as well.
But, though prescription's force we disallow,
Nor to antiquity submissive bow;                                  940
Though we deny imaginary grace,
Founded on accidents of time and place,
Yet real worth of every growth shall bear
Due praise; nor must we, Quin, forget thee there.
His words bore sterling weight; nervous and strong,
In manly tides of sense they roll'd along:
Happy in art, he chiefly had pretence
To keep up numbers, yet not forfeit sense;
No actor ever greater heights could reach
In all the labour'd artifice of speech.                           950
  Speech! is that all? And shall an actor found
An universal fame on partial ground?
Parrots themselves speak properly by rote,
And, in six months, my dog shall howl by note.
I laugh at those who, when the stage they tread,
Neglect the heart, to compliment the head;
With strict propriety their cares confined
To weigh out words, while passion halts behind:
To syllable-dissectors they appeal,
Allow them accent, cadence,--fools may feel;                      960
But, spite of all the criticising elves,
Those who would make us feel, must feel themselves.
  His eyes, in gloomy socket taught to roll,
Proclaim'd the sullen 'habit of his soul:'
Heavy and phlegmatic he trod the stage,
Too proud for tenderness, too dull for rage.
When Hector's lovely widow shines in tears,
Or Rowe's[75] gay rake dependent virtue jeers,
With the same cast of features he is seen
To chide the libertine, and court the queen.                      970
From the tame scene, which without passion flows,
With just desert his reputation rose;
Nor less he pleased, when, on some surly plan,
He was, at once, the actor and the man.
  In Brute[76] he shone unequall'd: all agree
Garrick's not half so great a Brute as he.
When Cato's labour'd scenes are brought to view,
With equal praise the actor labour'd too;
For still you'll find, trace passions to their root,
Small difference 'twixt the Stoic and the Brute.                  980
In fancied scenes, as in life's real plan,
He could not, for a moment, sink the man.
In whate'er cast his character was laid,
Self still, like oil, upon the surface play'd.
Nature, in spite of all his skill, crept in:
Horatio, Dorax,[77] Falstaff,--still 'twas Quin.
  Next follows Sheridan.[78] A doubtful name,
As yet unsettled in the rank of fame:
This, fondly lavish in his praises grown,
Gives him all merit; that allows him none;                        990
Between them both, we'll steer the middle course,
Nor, loving praise, rob Judgment of her force.
  Just his conceptions, natural and great,
His feelings strong, his words enforced with weight.
Was speech-famed Quin himself to hear him speak,
Envy would drive the colour from his cheek;
But step-dame Nature, niggard of her grace,
Denied the social powers of voice and face.
Fix'd in one frame of features, glare of eye,
Passions, like chaos, in confusion lie;                          1000
In vain the wonders of his skill are tried
To form distinctions Nature hath denied.
His voice no touch of harmony admits,
Irregularly deep, and shrill by fits.
The two extremes appear like man and wife,
Coupled together for the sake of strife.
  His action's always strong, but sometimes such,
That candour must declare he acts too much.
Why must impatience fall three paces back?
Why paces three return to the attack?                            1010
Why is the right leg, too, forbid to stir,
Unless in motion semicircular?
Why must the hero with the Nailor[79] vie,
And hurl the close-clench'd fist at nose or eye?
In Royal John, with Philip angry grown,
I thought he would have knock'd poor Davies down.
Inhuman tyrant! was it not a shame
To fright a king so harmless and so tame?
But, spite of all defects, his glories rise,
And art, by judgment form'd, with nature vies.                   1020
Behold him sound the depth of Hubert's[80] soul,
Whilst in his own contending passions roll;
View the whole scene, with critic judgment scan,
And then deny him merit, if you can.
Where he falls short, 'tis Nature's fault alone;
Where he succeeds, the merit's all his own.
  Last Garrick[81] came. Behind him throng a train
Of snarling critics, ignorant as vain.
  One finds out--He's of stature somewhat low--
Your hero always should be tall, you know;                       1030
True natural greatness all consists in height.
Produce your voucher, Critic.--Serjeant Kite.[82]
  Another can't forgive the paltry arts
By which he makes his way to shallow hearts;
Mere pieces of finesse, traps for applause--
'Avaunt! unnatural start, affected pause!'
  For me, by Nature form'd to judge with phlegm,
I can't acquit by wholesale, nor condemn.
The best things carried to excess are wrong;
The start may be too frequent, pause too long:                   1040
But, only used in proper time and place,
Severest judgment must allow them grace.
  If bunglers, form'd on Imitation's plan,
Just in the way that monkeys mimic man,
Their copied scene with mangled arts disgrace,
And pause and start with the same vacant face,
We join the critic laugh; those tricks we scorn
Which spoil the scenes they mean them to adorn.
But when, from Nature's pure and genuine source,
These strokes of acting flow with generous force,                1050
When in the features all the soul's portray'd,
And passions, such as Garrick's, are display'd,
To me they seem from quickest feelings caught--
Each start is nature, and each pause is thought.
  When reason yields to passion's wild alarms,
And the whole state of man is up in arms,
What but a critic could condemn the player
For pausing here, when cool sense pauses there?
Whilst, working from the heart, the fire I trace,
And mark it strongly flaming to the face;                        1060
Whilst in each sound I hear the very man,
I can't catch words, and pity those who can.
  Let wits, like spiders, from the tortured brain
Fine-draw the critic-web with curious pain;
The gods,--a kindness I with thanks must pay,--
Have form'd me of a coarser kind of clay;
Not stung with envy, nor with spleen diseased,
A poor dull creature, still with Nature pleased:
Hence to thy praises, Garrick, I agree,
And, pleased with Nature, must be pleased with thee.             1070
  Now might I tell how silence reign'd throughout,
And deep attention hush'd the rabble rout;
How every claimant, tortured with desire,
Was pale as ashes, or as red as fire;
But loose to fame, the Muse more simply acts,
Rejects all flourish, and relates mere facts.
  The judges, as the several parties came,
With temper heard, with judgment weigh'd each claim;
And, in their sentence happily agreed,
In name of both, great Shakspeare thus decreed:--                1080
  If manly sense, if Nature link'd with Art;
If thorough knowledge of the human heart;
If powers of acting vast and unconfined;
If fewest faults with greatest beauties join'd;
If strong expression, and strange powers which lie
Within the magic circle of the eye;
If feelings which few hearts like his can know,
And which no face so well as his can show,
Deserve the preference--Garrick! take the chair;
Nor quit it--till thou place an equal there.                     1090

       *       *       *       *       *

Footnotes:

  [1] 'The Rosciad:' for occasion, &c., see Life.

  [2] 'Roscius:' Quintus Roscius, a native of Gaul, and the most
    celebrated comedian of antiquity. [3] 'Clive:' Robert Lord Clive. See
    Macaulay's paper on him.

  [4] 'Shuter:' Edward Shuter, a comic actor, who, after various
    theatrical vicissitudes, died a zealous methodist and disciple of
    George Whitefield, in 1776.

  [5] 'Yates:' Richard Yates, another low actor of the period.

  [6] 'Foote:' Samuel Foote, the once well-known farcical writer, (now
    chiefly remembered from Boswell's Life of Johnson), opened the Old
    House in the Haymarket, and, in order to overrule the opposition of
    the magistrates, announced his entertainments as 'Mr Foote's giving
    tea to his friends.'

  [7] 'Wilkinson:' Wilkinson, the shadow of Foote, was the proprietor of
    Sadler's Wells Theatre.

  [8] 'Palmer:' John Palmer, a favourite actor in genteel comedy, who
    married Miss Pritchard, daughter of the celebrated actress of that
    name.

  [9] 'Barry:' Spranger Barry, an actor of first-rate eminence and tall
    of size. Barry was a competitor of Garrick. Every one remembers the
    lines in a poem comparing the two--

  'To Barry we give loud applause;
  To Garrick only tears.'

  [10] 'Coan:' John Coan, a dwarf, showed himself, like another Tom
    Thumb, for sixpence a-head.

  [11] 'Ackman:' Ackman ranked as one of the lowest comic actors of his
    time.

  [12] 'Sterne:' the celebrated Laurence Sterne.

  [13] 'Franklin:' Dr Thomas Franklin, the translator of Sophocles,
    Phalaris, and Lucian, and the author of a volume of sermons; all
    forgotten.

  [14] 'Colman:' Colman, the elder, translator of Terence, and author of
    many clever comedies.

  [15] 'Murphy:' Arthur Murphy, Esq., a native of Ireland. See Boswell's
    Life of Johnson. Churchill hated Murphy on account of his politics. He
    was in the pay of the Court.

  [16] 'Northern race:' Wedderburn, afterwards Lord Loughborough, and
    Earl Rosslyn, a patron of Murphy, and a bitter enemy of Wilkes.

  [17] 'Proteus Hill:' Sir John Hill, a celebrated character of that day,
    of incredible industry and versatility, a botanist, apothecary,
    translator, actor, dramatic author, natural historian, multitudinous
    compiler, libeller, and, _intus et in cute_, a quack and coxcomb. See
    Boswell's account of the interview between the King and Dr Johnson,
    for a somewhat modified estimate of Hill.

  [18] 'Woodward:' Woodward the comedian had a paper war with Hill.

  [19] 'Fools:' the person here meant was a Mr Fitzpatrick, a bitter
    enemy of Garrick's, and who originated riots in the theatre on the
    subject of half-price.

  [20] 'A youth:' Robert Lloyd, the friend and imitator of Churchill--an
    ingenious but improvident person, who died of grief at his friend's
    death, in 1764.

  [21] 'Foster:' Sir Michael Foster, one of the puisne judges of the
    Court of King's Bench.

  [22] 'Ode:' alluding to Mason's Ode to Memory.

  [23] 'Havard:' William Havard, an amiable man, but mediocre actor, of
    the period.

  [24] 'Davies:' Thomas Davies, a bookseller, actor, and author. See
    Boswell.

  [25] 'Holland:' Holland, a pupil and imitator of Mr Garrick.

  [26] 'King:' Thomas King, a voluble and pert but clever actor.

  [27] 'Yates:' Yates had a habit of repeating his words twice or thrice
    over, such as 'Hark you, hark you.'

  [28] 'Tom Errand:' Tom Errand and Clincher, two well-known dramatic
    characters--a Clown and a coxcomb.

  [29] 'Woodward:' Henry Woodward, comic actor of much power of face.

  [30] 'Kitely:' Kitely, in Johnson's 'Every Man in his Humour,' was a
    favourite character of Garrick's.

  [31] 'Obrien:' a small actor; originally a fencing-master.

  [32] 'Jackson:' afterwards manager of the Royal Theatre, Edinburgh.

  [33] 'Love:' James Love, an actor and dramatic writer, who could play
    nothing well but Falstaff.

  [34] 'Dominic:' Dryden's 'Spanish Friar.' [35] 'Boniface:' The jovial
    landlord in Farquhar's 'Beaux Stratagem.'

  [36] 'Austin,' &c.: all small and forgotten actors.

  [37] 'Moody:' Moody excelled in Irish characters.

  [38] 'Bayes:' alluding to the summer theatre in the Haymarket, where
    Murphy's plays were got up and acted under the joint management of
    himself and Mr Foote.

  [39] 'Elliot:' a female actress of great merit.

  [40] 'Ledgers:' the Public Ledger, a newspaper.

  [41] 'Vaughan:' Thomas Vaughan, a friend of Murphy.

  [42] 'Little factions:' Murphy had called Churchill and his friends
    'The Little Faction.'

  [43] 'Militia:' the Westminster militia and the city of London trained
    bands and lumber troopers, afforded much amusement.

  [44] 'Sparks:' Luke Sparks, an actor of the time, rather hard in his
    manner.

  [45] 'Smith:' Called Gentleman Smith,' an actor in genteel comedy,
    corpulent in person.

  [46] 'Ross:' a Scotchman, dissipated in his habits.

  [47] 'Statira:' Ross's Statira was Mrs Palmer, the daughter of Mrs
    Pritchard.

  [48] 'Macklin:' Charles Macklin, _alias_ M'Laughlin, good in such
    characters as Shylock, &c.; no tragedian; a lecturer on elocution;
    coarse in features.

  [49] 'Sheridan:' father of Richard Brinsley. See Boswell and Moore.

  [50] 'Islington:' the new river.

  [51] 'Rolt:' a drudge to the booksellers, who plagiarised Akenside's
    'Pleasures of Imagination,' and was a coadjutor with Christopher
    Smart in the 'Universal Visitor.' See Boswell.

  [52] 'Lun:' Mr John Rich, the manager of Covent Garden and Lincoln's
    Inn Fields Theatre, called Lun for his performance of Harlequin; famous
    for pantomimes.

  [53] 'Clive:' Catherine Clive, a celebrated comic actress, of very
    diversified powers; 'a better romp' than Jonson 'ever saw in nature.'

  [54] 'Pope:' a pleasing protege of Mrs Clive.

  [55] 'Vincent:' Mrs Vincent, a tolerable actress and a fine singer.

  [56] 'Arne:' a fine musician, but no writer.

  [57] 'Brent:' a female scholar of Arne's, very popular as Polly in the
    'Beggars Opera.'

  [58] 'Beard and Vincent:' famous singers.

  [59] 'Yates:' Anna Maria Yates, the wife of Richard Yates, mentioned in
    a preceding note.

  [60] 'Hart:' Mrs Hart, a demirep, married to one Reddish, who, after
    her death, wedded Mrs Canning, mother of the great statesman.

  [61] 'Bride:' another beautiful, but disreputable actress.

  [62] 'Stale flower,' &c.: an unmanly allusion to Mrs Palmer, the
    daughter of Mrs Pritchard, who was greatly inferior to her mother.

  [63] 'Cibber:' sister to Arne, and wife to the once notorious
    Theophilus Cibber, the son of the hero of the 'Dunciad.' She was no
    better in character than many actresses of that day; but sang so
    plaintively, that a bishop who heard her once cried out, 'Woman, thy
    sins be forgiven thee!'

  [64] 'Pritchard:' according to Johnson, 'in private a vulgar idiot,
    but who, on the stage, seemed to become inspired with gentility and
    understanding.'

  [65] 'Pantomime:' the 'Mourning Bride.'

  [66] 'Thane:' Macbeth.

  [67] 'Juletta:' a witty maid-servant in the play of 'The Pilgrim.'

  [68] The 'Jealous Wife:' the 'Jealous Wife,' by Colman, was taken from
    the story of Lady Bellaston, in 'Tom Jones.'

  [69] 'Mossop:' Henry Mossop, a powerful, fiery, but irregular actor,
    very unfortunate in life.

  [70] 'Right-hand:' Mossop practised the 'tea-pot attitude.'

  [71] 'Barry:' Spranger Barry, mentioned above as Garrick's great rival.
    He acted in Covent Garden.

  [72] 'Quin:' the friend of Thomson, (see 'Castle of Indolence'),
    instructor in reading of George III., famous for indolence, wit, good
    nature, and corpulence.

  [73] 'Betterton:' the great actor of the seventeenth century, whose
    funeral and character are described in the 'Tatler.' Booth was his
    successor and copy.

  [74] 'Lined:' supported.

  [75] 'Rowe.' Andromache, in the tragedy of the 'Distressed Mother,' by
    Ambrose Philips, and Lothario, in the 'Fair Penitent,' by Rowe.

  [76] 'Brute:' Sir John Brute, in Vanbrugh's 'Provoked Wife.'

  [77] 'Dorax:' a soldier in Dryden's 'Don Sebastian.'

  [78] 'Sheridan:' see a previous note.

  [79] 'Nailor:' pugilist.

  [80] 'Hubert:' in King John.

  [81] 'Garrick:' see Boswell and Murphy's life of that great actor.

  [82] 'Serjeant Kite:' the recruiting serjeant in Farquhar's 'Recruiting
    Officer.'




THE APOLOGY.

ADDRESSED TO THE CRITICAL REVIEWERS.[83]

  Tristitiam et Metus.--HORACE.

Laughs not the heart when giants, big with pride,
Assume the pompous port, the martial stride;
O'er arm Herculean heave the enormous shield,
Vast as a weaver's beam the javelin wield;
With the loud voice of thundering Jove defy,
And dare to single combat--what?--A fly!
  And laugh we less when giant names, which shine
Establish'd, as it were, by right divine;
Critics, whom every captive art adores,
To whom glad Science pours forth all her stores;     10
Who high in letter'd reputation sit,
And hold, Astraea-like, the scales of wit,
With partial rage rush forth--oh! shame to tell!--
To crush a bard just bursting from the shell?
  Great are his perils in this stormy time
Who rashly ventures on a sea of rhyme:
Around vast surges roll, winds envious blow,
And jealous rocks and quicksands lurk below:
Greatly his foes he dreads, but more his friends;
He hurts me most who lavishly commends.             20
  Look through the world--in every other trade
The same employment's cause of kindness made,
At least appearance of good will creates,
And every fool puffs off the fool he hates:
Cobblers with cobblers smoke away the night,
And in the common cause e'en players unite;
Authors alone, with more than savage rage,
Unnatural war with brother authors wage.
The pride of Nature would as soon admit
Competitors in empire as in wit;                                   30
Onward they rush, at Fame's imperious call,
And, less than greatest, would not be at all.
  Smit with the love of honour,--or the pence,--
O'errun with wit, and destitute of sense,
Should any novice in the rhyming trade
With lawless pen the realms of verse invade,
Forth from the court, where sceptred sages sit,
Abused with praise, and flatter'd into wit,
Where in lethargic majesty they reign,
And what they won by dulness, still maintain,                      40
Legions of factious authors throng at once,
Fool beckons fool, and dunce awakens dunce.
To 'Hamilton's[84] the ready lies repair--
Ne'er was lie made which was not welcome there--
Thence, on maturer judgment's anvil wrought,
The polish'd falsehood's into public brought.
Quick-circulating slanders mirth afford;
And reputation bleeds in every word.
  A critic was of old a glorious name,
Whose sanction handed merit up to fame;                            50
Beauties as well as faults he brought to view;
His judgment great, and great his candour too;
No servile rules drew sickly taste aside;
Secure he walk'd, for Nature was his guide.
But now--oh! strange reverse!--our critics bawl
In praise of candour with a heart of gall;
Conscious of guilt, and fearful of the light,
They lurk enshrouded in the vale of night;
Safe from detection, seize the unwary prey,
And stab, like bravoes, all who come that way.                     60
  When first my Muse, perhaps more bold than wise,
Bade the rude trifle into light arise,
Little she thought such tempests would ensue;
Less, that those tempests would be raised by you.
The thunder's fury rends the towering oak,
Rosciads, like shrubs, might 'scape the fatal stroke.
Vain thought! a critic's fury knows no bound;
Drawcansir-like, he deals destruction round;
Nor can we hope he will a stranger spare,
Who gives no quarter to his friend Voltaire.[85]                   70
  Unhappy Genius! placed by partial Fate
With a free spirit in a slavish state;
Where the reluctant Muse, oppress'd by kings,
Or droops in silence, or in fetters sings!
In vain thy dauntless fortitude hath borne
The bigot's furious zeal, and tyrant's scorn.
Why didst thou safe from home-bred dangers steer,
Reserved to perish more ignobly here?
Thus, when, the Julian tyrant's pride to swell,
Rome with her Pompey at Pharsalia fell,                            80
The vanquish'd chief escaped from Caesar's hand,
To die by ruffians in a foreign land.
  How could these self-elected monarchs raise
So large an empire on so small a base?
In what retreat, inglorious and unknown,
Did Genius sleep when Dulness seized the throne?
Whence, absolute now grown, and free from awe,
She to the subject world dispenses law.
Without her licence not a letter stirs,
And all the captive criss-cross-row is hers.                       90
The Stagyrite, who rules from Nature drew,
Opinions gave, but gave his reasons too.
Our great Dictators take a shorter way--
Who shall dispute what the Reviewers say?
Their word's sufficient; and to ask a reason,
In such a state as theirs, is downright treason.
True judgment now with them alone can dwell;
Like Church of Rome, they're grown infallible.
Dull superstitious readers they deceive,
Who pin their easy faith on critic's sleeve,                      100
And knowing nothing, everything believe!
But why repine we that these puny elves
Shoot into giants?--we may thank ourselves:
Fools that we are, like Israel's fools of yore,
The calf ourselves have fashion'd we adore.
But let true Reason once resume her reign,
This god shall dwindle to a calf again.
  Founded on arts which shun the face of day,
By the same arts they still maintain their sway.
Wrapp'd in mysterious secrecy they rise,                          110
And, as they are unknown, are safe and wise.
At whomsoever aim'd, howe'er severe,
The envenom'd slander flies, no names appear:
Prudence forbids that step;--then all might know,
And on more equal terms engage the foe.
But now, what Quixote of the age would care
To wage a war with dirt, and fight with air?
By interest join'd, the expert confederates stand,
And play the game into each other's hand:
The vile abuse, in turn by all denied,                            120
Is bandied up and down, from side to side:
It flies--hey!--presto!--like a juggler's ball,
Till it belongs to nobody at all.
  All men and things they know, themselves unknown,
And publish every name--except their own.
Nor think this strange,--secure from vulgar eyes,
The nameless author passes in disguise;
But veteran critics are not so deceived,
If veteran critics are to be believed.
Once seen, they know an author evermore,                          130
Nay, swear to hands they never saw before.
Thus in 'The Rosciad,' beyond chance or doubt,
They by the writing found the writers out:
That's Lloyd's--his manner there you plainly trace,
And all the Actor stares you in the face.
By Colman that was written--on my life,
The strongest symptoms of the 'Jealous Wife.'
That little disingenuous piece of spite,
Churchill--a wretch unknown!--perhaps might write.
  How doth it make judicious readers smile,                       140
When authors are detected by their style;
Though every one who knows this author, knows
He shifts his style much oftener than his clothes!
  Whence could arise this mighty critic spleen,
The Muse a trifler, and her theme so mean?
What had I done, that angry Heaven should send
The bitterest foe where most I wish'd a friend?
Oft hath my tongue been wanton at thy name,[86]
And hail'd the honours of thy matchless fame.
For me let hoary Fielding bite the ground,                        150
So nobler Pickle stands superbly bound;
From Livy's temples tear the historic crown,
Which with more justice blooms upon thine own.
Compared with thee, be all life-writers dumb,
But he who wrote the Life of Tommy Thumb.
Who ever read 'The Regicide,' but swore
The author wrote as man ne'er wrote before?
Others for plots and under-plots may call,
Here's the right method--have no plot at all.
Who can so often in his cause engage                              160
The tiny pathos of the Grecian stage,
Whilst horrors rise, and tears spontaneous flow
At tragic Ha! and no less tragic Oh!
To praise his nervous weakness all agree;
And then for sweetness, who so sweet as he!
Too big for utterance when sorrows swell,
The too big sorrows flowing tears must tell;
But when those flowing tears shall cease to flow,
Why--then the voice must speak again, you know.
  Rude and unskilful in the poet's trade,                         170
I kept no Naiads by me ready made;
Ne'er did I colours high in air advance,
Torn from the bleeding fopperies of France;[87]
No flimsy linsey-woolsey scenes I wrote,
With patches here and there, like Joseph's coat.
Me humbler themes befit: secure, for me,
Let play-wrights smuggle nonsense duty free;
Secure, for me, ye lambs, ye lambkins! bound,
And frisk and frolic o'er the fairy ground.
Secure, for me, thou pretty little fawn!                          180
Lick Sylvia's hand, and crop the flowery lawn;
Uncensured let the gentle breezes rove
Through the green umbrage of the enchanted grove:
Secure, for me, let foppish Nature smile,
And play the coxcomb in the 'Desert Isle.'
  The stage I chose--a subject fair and free--
'Tis yours--'tis mine--'tis public property.
All common exhibitions open lie,
For praise or censure, to the common eye.
Hence are a thousand hackney writers fed;                         190
Hence Monthly Critics earn their daily bread.
This is a general tax which all must pay,
From those who scribble, down to those who play.
Actors, a venal crew, receive support
From public bounty for the public sport.
To clap or hiss all have an equal claim,
The cobbler's and his lordship's right's the same.
All join for their subsistence; all expect
Free leave to praise their worth, their faults correct.
When active Pickle Smithfield stage ascends,                      200
The three days' wonder of his laughing friends,
Each, or as judgment or as fancy guides,
The lively witling praises or derides.
And where's the mighty difference, tell me where,
Betwixt a Merry Andrew and a player?
  The strolling tribe--a despicable race!--
Like wandering Arabs, shift from place to place.
Vagrants by law, to justice open laid,
They tremble, of the beadle's lash afraid,
And, fawning, cringe for wretched means of life                   210
To Madam Mayoress, or his Worship's wife.
  The mighty monarch, in theatric sack,
Carries his whole regalia at his back;
His royal consort heads the female band,
And leads the heir apparent in her hand;
The pannier'd ass creeps on with conscious pride,
Bearing a future prince on either side.
No choice musicians in this troop are found,
To varnish nonsense with the charms of sound;
No swords, no daggers, not one poison'd bowl;                     220
No lightning flashes here, no thunders roll;
No guards to swell the monarch's train are shown;
The monarch here must be a host alone:
No solemn pomp, no slow processions here;
No Ammon's entry, and no Juliet's bier.
  By need compell'd to prostitute his art,
The varied actor flies from part to part;
And--strange disgrace to all theatric pride!--
His character is shifted with his side.
Question and answer he by turns must be,                          230
Like that small wit in modern tragedy,[88]
Who, to patch up his fame--or fill his purse--
Still pilfers wretched plans, and makes them worse;
Like gypsies, lest the stolen brat be known,
Defacing first, then claiming for his own.
In shabby state they strut, and tatter'd robe,
The scene a blanket, and a barn the globe:
No high conceits their moderate wishes raise,
Content with humble profit, humble praise.
Let dowdies simper, and let bumpkins stare,                       240
The strolling pageant hero treads in air:
Pleased, for his hour he to mankind gives law,
And snores the next out on a truss of straw.
  But if kind Fortune, who sometimes, we know,
Can take a hero from a puppet-show,
In mood propitious should her favourite call,
On royal stage in royal pomp to bawl,
Forgetful of himself, he rears the head,
And scorns the dunghill where he first was bred;
Conversing now with well dress'd kings and queens,                250
With gods and goddesses behind the scenes,
He sweats beneath the terror-nodding plume,
Taught by mock honours real pride to assume.
On this great stage, the world, no monarch e'er
Was half so haughty as a monarch player.
  Doth it more move our anger or our mirth
To see these things, the lowest sons of earth,
Presume, with self-sufficient knowledge graced,
To rule in letters, and preside in taste?
The town's decisions they no more admit,                          260
Themselves alone the arbiters of wit;
And scorn the jurisdiction of that court
To which they owe their being and support.
Actors, like monks of old, now sacred grown,
Must be attack'd by no fools but their own.
  Let the vain tyrant[89] sit amidst his guards,
His puny green-room wits and venal bards,
Who meanly tremble at the puppet's frown,
And for a playhouse-freedom lose their own;
In spite of new-made laws, and new-made kings,                    270
The free-born Muse with liberal spirit sings.
Bow down, ye slaves! before these idols fall;
Let Genius stoop to them who've none at all:
Ne'er will I flatter, cringe, or bend the knee
To those who, slaves to all, are slaves to me.
  Actors, as actors, are a lawful game,
The poet's right, and who shall bar his claim?
And if, o'erweening of their little skill,
When they have left the stage, they're actors still;
If to the subject world they still give laws,                     280
With paper crowns, and sceptres made of straws;
If they in cellar or in garret roar,
And, kings one night, are kings for evermore;
Shall not bold Truth, e'en there, pursue her theme,
And wake the coxcomb from his golden dream?
Or if, well worthy of a better fate,
They rise superior to their present state;
If, with each social virtue graced, they blend
The gay companion and the faithful friend;
If they, like Pritchard, join in private life                     290
The tender parent and the virtuous wife;
Shall not our verse their praise with pleasure speak,
Though Mimics bark, and Envy split her cheek?
No honest worth's beneath the Muse's praise;
No greatness can above her censure raise;
Station and wealth to her are trifling things;
She stoops to actors, and she soars to kings.
  Is there a man,[90] in vice and folly bred,
To sense of honour as to virtue dead,
Whom ties, nor human, nor divine can bind,                        300
Alien from God, and foe to all mankind;
Who spares no character; whose every word,
Bitter as gall, and sharper than the sword,
Cuts to the quick; whose thoughts with rancour swell;
Whose tongue, on earth, performs the work of hell?
If there be such a monster, the Reviews
Shall find him holding forth against abuse:
Attack profession!--'tis a deadly breach!
The Christian laws another lesson teach:--
Unto the end shall Charity endure,                                310
And Candour hide those faults it cannot cure.
  Thus Candour's maxims flow from Rancour's throat,
As devils, to serve their purpose, Scripture quote.
  The Muse's office was by Heaven design'd
To please, improve, instruct, reform mankind;
To make dejected Virtue nobly rise
Above the towering pitch of splendid Vice;
To make pale Vice, abash'd, her head hang down,
And, trembling, crouch at Virtue's awful frown.
Now arm'd with wrath, she bids eternal shame,                     320
With strictest justice, brand the villain's name;
Now in the milder garb of ridicule
She sports, and pleases while she wounds the fool.
Her shape is often varied; but her aim,
To prop the cause of Virtue, still the same.
In praise of Mercy let the guilty bawl;
When Vice and Folly for correction call,
Silence the mark of weakness justly bears,
And is partaker of the crimes it spares.
But if the Muse, too cruel in her mirth,                          330
With harsh reflections wounds the man of worth;
If wantonly she deviates from her plan,
And quits the actor to expose the man;[91]
Ashamed, she marks that passage with a blot,
And hates the line where candour was forgot.
  But what is candour, what is humour's vein,
Though judgment join to consecrate the strain,
If curious numbers will not aid afford,
Nor choicest music play in every word?
Verses must run, to charm a modern ear,                           340
From all harsh, rugged interruptions clear.
Soft let them breathe, as Zephyr's balmy breeze,
Smooth let their current flow, as summer seas;
Perfect then only deem'd when they dispense
A happy tuneful vacancy of sense.
Italian fathers thus, with barbarous rage,
Fit helpless infants for the squeaking stage;
Deaf to the calls of pity, Nature wound,
And mangle vigour for the sake of sound.
Henceforth farewell, then, feverish thirst of fame;               350
Farewell the longings for a poet's name;
Perish my Muse--a wish 'bove all severe
To him who ever held the Muses dear--
If e'er her labours weaken to refine
The generous roughness of a nervous line.
  Others affect the stiff and swelling phrase;
Their Muse must walk in stilts, and strut in stays;
The sense they murder, and the words transpose,
Lest poetry approach too near to prose.
See tortured Reason how they pare and trim,                       360
And, like Procrustes, stretch, or lop the limb.
  Waller! whose praise succeeding bards rehearse,
Parent of harmony in English verse,
Whose tuneful Muse in sweetest accents flows,
In couplets first taught straggling sense to close.
  In polish'd numbers and majestic sound,
Where shall thy rival, Pope! be ever found?
But whilst each line with equal beauty flows.
E'en excellence, unvaried, tedious grows.
Nature, through all her works, in great degree,                   370
Borrows a blessing from variety.
Music itself her needful aid requires
To rouse the soul, and wake our dying fires.
Still in one key, the nightingale would tease;
Still in one key, not Brent would always please.
  Here let me bend, great Dryden! at thy shrine,
Thou dearest name to all the Tuneful Nine!
What if some dull lines in cold order creep,
And with his theme the poet seems to sleep?
Still, when his subject rises proud to view,                      380
With equal strength the poet rises too:
With strong invention, noblest vigour fraught,
Thought still springs up and rises out of thought;
Numbers ennobling numbers in their course,
In varied sweetness flow, in varied force;
The powers of genius and of judgment join,
And the whole Art of Poetry is thine.
  But what are numbers, what are bards to me,
Forbid to tread the paths of poesy?
A sacred Muse should consecrate her pen--                         390
Priests must not hear nor see like other men--
Far higher themes should her ambition claim:
Behold where Sternhold points the way to fame!
  Whilst with mistaken zeal dull bigots burn,
Let Reason for a moment take her turn.
When coffee-sages hold discourse with kings,
And blindly walk in paper leading-strings,
What if a man delight to pass his time
In spinning reason into harmless rhyme,
Or sometimes boldly venture to the play?                          400
Say, where's the crime, great man of prudence, say?
No two on earth in all things can agree;
All have some darling singularity:
Women and men, as well as girls and boys,
In gew-gaws take delight, and sigh for toys.
Your sceptres and your crowns, and such like things,
Are but a better kind of toys for kings.
In things indifferent Reason bids us choose,
Whether the whim's a monkey or a Muse.
  What the grave triflers on this busy scene,                     410
When they make use of this word Reason, mean,
I know not; but according to my plan,
'Tis Lord Chief-Justice in the court of man;
Equally form'd to rule in age or youth,
The friend of virtue and the guide to truth;
To her I bow, whose sacred power I feel;
To her decision make my last appeal;
Condemn'd by her, applauding worlds in vain
Should tempt me to take up the pen again;
By her absolved, my course I'll still pursue: 420
If Reason's for me, God is for me too.

       *       *       *       *       *

Footnotes:

  [83] For occasion, &c. of this, see Life.

  [84] 'Hamilton:' Archibald Hamilton, printer of the 'Critical Review.'

  [85] 'Voltaire:' Smollett had changed his opinion of Voltaire, and from
    praising, had begun to abuse him.

  [86] 'Thy name:' Dr Tobias Smollett, the well-known author of 'Roderick
    Random, 'The Regicide,' an unfortunate tragedy, and one of the editors
    of the 'Critical Review,'is here satirised.

  [87] 'Fopperies of France,' &c.: in these lines the poet refers to
    Murphy's practice of vamping up French plays, and to his 'Desert
    Island,' a ridiculous pastoral drama.

  [88] 'Modern tragedy:' Mr Murphy again.

  [89] 'Vain tyrant,' &c.: Garrick is here meant; he had displeased
    Churchill by pretending that he had written 'The Rosciad' to gain the
    freedom of the playhouse. He apologised very humbly to Churchill, and
    a reconciliation took place.

  [90] 'A man:' Dr Smollett again.

  [91] 'Expose the man:' referring to some personal lines on one Mr John
    Palmer, which occurred in the first edition, but which he expunged.




NIGHT.[92]

AN EPISTLE TO ROBERT LLOYD.

  Contrarius evehor orbi.--OVID, Met. lib. ii.

When foes insult, and prudent friends dispense,
In pity's strains, the worst of insolence,
Oft with thee, Lloyd, I steal an hour from grief,
And in thy social converse find relief.
The mind, of solitude impatient grown,
Loves any sorrows rather than her own.
  Let slaves to business, bodies without soul,
Important blanks in Nature's mighty roll,
Solemnise nonsense in the day's broad glare,
We Night prefer, which heals or hides our care.                    10
  Rogues justified, and by success made bold,
Dull fools and coxcombs sanctified by gold,
Freely may bask in fortune's partial ray,
And spread their feathers opening to the day;
But threadbare Merit dares not show the head
Till vain Prosperity retires to bed.
Misfortunes, like the owl, avoid the light;
The sons of Care are always sons of Night.
  The wretch, bred up in Method's drowsy school,
Whose only merit is to err by rule,                                20
Who ne'er through heat of blood was tripping caught,
Nor guilty deem'd of one eccentric thought;
Whose soul directed to no use is seen,
Unless to move the body's dull machine,
Which, clock-work like, with the same equal pace
Still travels on through life's insipid space,
Turns up his eyes to think that there should be,
Among God's creatures, two such things as we;
Then for his nightcap calls, and thanks the powers
Which kindly gave him grace to keep good hours.                    30
  Good hours!--fine words--but was it ever seen
That all men could agree in what they mean?
Florio, who many years a course hath run
In downright opposition to the sun,
Expatiates on good hours, their cause defends
With as much vigour as our prudent friends.
The uncertain term no settled notion brings,
But still in different mouths means different things;
Each takes the phrase in his own private view;
With Prudence it is ten, with Florio two.                          40
  Go on, ye fools! who talk for talking sake,
Without distinguishing, distinctions make;
Shine forth in native folly, native pride,
Make yourselves rules to all the world beside;
Reason, collected in herself, disdains
The slavish yoke of arbitrary chains;
Steady and true, each circumstance she weighs,
Nor to bare words inglorious tribute pays.
Men of sense live exempt from vulgar awe,
And Reason to herself alone is law:                                50
That freedom she enjoys with liberal mind,
Which she as freely grants to all mankind.
No idol-titled name her reverence stirs,
No hour she blindly to the rest prefers;
All are alike, if they're alike employ'd,
And all are good if virtuously enjoy'd.
  Let the sage Doctor (think him one we know)
With scraps of ancient learning overflow,
In all the dignity of wig declare
The fatal consequence of midnight air,                             60
How damps and vapours, as it were by stealth,
Undermine life, and sap the walls of health:
For me let Galen moulder on the shelf,
I'll live, and be physician to myself.
Whilst soul is join'd to body, whether fate
Allot a longer or a shorter date,
I'll make them live, as brother should with brother,
And keep them in good humour with each other.
  The surest road to health, say what they will,
Is never to suppose we shall be ill.                               70
Most of those evils we poor mortals know,
From doctors and imagination flow.
Hence to old women with your boasted rules,
Stale traps, and only sacred now to fools;
As well may sons of physic hope to find
One medicine, as one hour, for all mankind!
  If Rupert after ten is out of bed,
The fool next morning can't hold up his head;
What reason this which me to bed must call,
Whose head, thank Heaven, never aches at all?                      80
In different courses different tempers run;
He hates the moon, I sicken at the sun.
Wound up at twelve at noon, his clock goes right;
Mine better goes, wound up at twelve at night.
  Then in oblivion's grateful cup I drown
The galling sneer, the supercilious frown,
The strange reserve, the proud, affected state
Of upstart knaves grown rich, and fools grown great.
No more that abject wretch[93] disturbs my rest,
Who meanly overlooks a friend distress'd.                          90
Purblind to poverty, the worldling goes,
And scarce sees rags an inch beyond his nose;
But from a crowd can single out his Grace,
And cringe and creep to fools who strut in lace.
  Whether those classic regions are survey'd
Where we in earliest youth together stray'd,
Where hand in hand we trod the flowery shore,
Though now thy happier genius runs before;
When we conspired a thankless wretch[94] to raise,
And taught a stump to shoot with pilfer'd praise,                 100
Who once, for reverend merit famous grown,
Gratefully strove to kick his maker down;
Or if more general arguments engage,--
The court or camp, the pulpit, bar, or stage;
If half-bred surgeons, whom men doctors call,
And lawyers, who were never bred at all,
Those mighty letter'd monsters of the earth,
Our pity move, or exercise our mirth;
Or if in tittle-tattle, toothpick way,
Our rambling thoughts with easy freedom stray,--                  110
A gainer still thy friend himself must find,
His grief suspended, and improved his mind.
  Whilst peaceful slumbers bless the homely bed
Where virtue, self-approved, reclines her head;
Whilst vice beneath imagined horrors mourns,
And conscience plants the villain's couch with thorns;
Impatient of restraint, the active mind,
No more by servile prejudice confined,
Leaps from her seat, as waken'd from a trance
And darts through Nature at a single glance                       120
Then we our friends, our foes, ourselves, survey,
And see by Night what fools we are by day.
  Stripp'd of her gaudy plumes, and vain disguise,
See where ambition, mean and loathsome, lies;
Reflection with relentless hand pulls down
The tyrant's bloody wreath and ravish'd crown.
In vain he tells of battles bravely won,
Of nations conquer'd, and of worlds undone;
Triumphs like these but ill with manhood suit,
And sink the conqueror beneath the brute.                         130
But if, in searching round the world, we find
Some generous youth, the friend of all mankind,
Whose anger, like the bolt of Jove, is sped
In terrors only at the guilty head,
Whose mercies, like heaven's dew, refreshing fall
In general love and charity to all,
Pleased we behold such worth on any throne,
And doubly pleased we find it on our own.
Through a false medium things are shown by day;
Pomp, wealth, and titles, judgment lead astray.                   140
How many from appearance borrow state,
Whom Night disdains to number with the great!
Must not we laugh to see yon lordling proud
Snuff up vile incense from a fawning crowd?
Whilst in his beam surrounding clients play,
Like insects in the sun's enlivening ray,
Whilst, Jehu-like, he drives at furious rate,
And seems the only charioteer of state,
Talking himself into a little god,
And ruling empires with a single nod;                             150
Who would not think, to hear him law dispense,
That he had interest, and that they had sense?
Injurious thought! beneath Night's honest shade,
When pomp is buried, and false colours fade,
Plainly we see at that impartial hour,
Them dupes to pride, and him the tool of power.
  God help the man, condemn'd by cruel fate
To court the seeming, or the real great!
Much sorrow shall he feel, and suffer more
Than any slave who labours at the oar!                            160
By slavish methods must he learn to please,
By smooth-tongued flattery, that cursed court-disease;
Supple, to every wayward mood strike sail,
And shift with shifting humour's peevish gale.
To nature dead, he must adopt vile art,
And wear a smile, with anguish in his heart.
A sense of honour would destroy his schemes,
And conscience ne'er must speak unless in dreams.
When he hath tamely borne, for many years,
Cold looks, forbidding frowns, contemptuous sneers,               170
When he at last expects, good easy man!
To reap the profits of his labour'd plan,
Some cringing lackey, or rapacious whore,
To favours of the great the surest door,
Some catamite, or pimp, in credit grown,
Who tempts another's wife, or sells his own,
Steps 'cross his hopes, the promised boon denies,
And for some minion's minion claims the prize.
  Foe to restraint, unpractised in deceit,
Too resolute, from nature's active heat,                          180
To brook affronts, and tamely pass them by,
Too proud to flatter, too sincere to lie,
Too plain to please, too honest to be great,
Give me, kind Heaven, an humbler, happier state:
Far from the place where men with pride deceive,
Where rascals promise, and where fools believe;
Far from the walk of folly, vice, and strife,
Calm, independent, let me steal through life;
Nor one vain wish my steady thoughts beguile
To fear his Lordship's frown, or court his smile.                 190
Unfit for greatness, I her snares defy,
And look on riches with untainted eye:
To others let the glittering baubles fall,
Content shall place us far above them all.
  Spectators only on this bustling stage,
We see what vain designs mankind engage:
Vice after vice with ardour they pursue,
And one old folly brings forth twenty new.
Perplex'd with trifles through the vale of life,
Man strives 'gainst man, without a cause for strife:              200
Armies embattled meet, and thousands bleed
For some vile spot, where fifty cannot feed.
Squirrels for nuts contend, and, wrong or right,
For the world's empire kings, ambitious, fight.
What odds?--to us 'tis all the self-same thing,
A nut, a world, a squirrel, and a king.
  Britons, like Roman spirits famed of old,
Are cast by nature in a patriot mould;
No private joy, no private grief, they know,
Their souls engross'd by public weal or woe;                      210
Inglorious ease, like ours, they greatly scorn;
Let care with nobler wreaths their brows adorn:
Gladly they toil beneath the statesman's pains,
Give them but credit for a statesman's brains.
All would be deem'd, e'en from the cradle, fit
To rule in politics as well as wit.
The grave, the gay, the fopling, and the dunce,
Start up (God bless us!) statesman all at once.
  His mighty charge of souls the priest forgets,
The court-bred lord his promises and debts;                       220
Soldiers their fame, misers forget their pelf,
The rake his mistress, and the fop himself;
Whilst thoughts of higher moment claim their care,
And their wise heads the weight of kingdoms bear.
  Females themselves the glorious ardour feel,
And boast an equal or a greater zeal;
From nymph to nymph the state-infection flies,
Swells in her breast, and sparkles in her eyes.
O'erwhelm'd by politics lie malice, pride,
Envy, and twenty other faults beside.                             230
No more their little fluttering hearts confess
A passion for applause, or rage for dress;
No more they pant for public raree-shows,
Or lose one thought on monkeys or on beaux:
Coquettes no more pursue the jilting plan,
And lustful prudes forget to rail at man:
The darling theme Cecilia's self will choose,
Nor thinks of scandal whilst she talks of news.
  The cit, a common-councilman by place,
Ten thousand mighty nothings in his face,                         240
By situation as by nature great,
With nice precision parcels out the state;
Proves and disproves, affirms and then denies,
Objects himself, and to himself replies;
Wielding aloft the politician rod,
Makes Pitt by turns a devil and a god;
Maintains, e'en to the very teeth of Power,
The same thing right and wrong in half an hour:
Now all is well, now he suspects a plot,
And plainly proves, whatever is, is not:                          250
Fearfully wise, he shakes his empty head,
And deals out empires as he deals out thread;
His useless scales are in a corner flung,
And Europe's balance hangs upon his tongue.
  Peace to such triflers! be our happier plan
To pass through life as easy as we can.
Who's in or out, who moves this grand machine,
Nor stirs my curiosity, nor spleen.
Secrets of state no more I wish to know
Than secret movements of a puppet-show:                           260
Let but the puppets move, I've my desire,
Unseen the hand which guides the master-wire.
  What is't to us if taxes rise or fall?
Thanks to our fortune, we pay none at all.
Let muckworms, who in dirty acres deal,
Lament those hardships which we cannot feel.
His Grace, who smarts, may bellow if he please,
But must I bellow too, who sit at ease?
By custom safe, the poet's numbers flow
Free as the light and air some years ago.                         270
No statesman e'er will find it worth his pains
To tax our labours, and excise our brains.
Burthens like these, vile earthly buildings bear;
No tribute's laid on castles in the air.
  Let, then, the flames of war destructive reign,
And England's terrors awe imperious Spain;
Let every venal clan[95] and neutral tribe
Learn to receive conditions, not prescribe;
Let each new year call loud for new supplies,
And tax on tax with double burthen rise;                          280
Exempt we sit, by no rude cares oppress'd,
And, having little, are with little bless'd.
All real ills in dark oblivion lie,
And joys, by fancy form'd, their place supply;
Night's laughing hours unheeded slip away,
Nor one dull thought foretells approach of day.
  Thus have we lived, and whilst the Fates afford
Plain plenty to supply the frugal board;
Whilst Mirth with Decency, his lovely bride,
And wine's gay god, with Temperance by his side,                  290
Their welcome visit pay; whilst Health attends
The narrow circle of our chosen friends;
Whilst frank Good-humour consecrates the treat,
And woman makes society complete,
Thus will we live, though in our teeth are hurl'd
Those hackney strumpets, Prudence and the World.
  Prudence, of old a sacred term, implied
Virtue, with godlike wisdom for her guide;
But now in general use is known to mean
The stalking-horse of vice, and folly's screen.                   300
The sense perverted, we retain the name;
Hypocrisy and Prudence are the same.
  A tutor once, more read in men than books,
A kind of crafty knowledge in his looks,
Demurely sly, with high preferment bless'd,
His favourite pupil in these words address'd:--
Wouldst thou, my son, be wise and virtuous deem'd;
By all mankind a prodigy esteem'd?
Be this thy rule; be what men prudent call;
Prudence, almighty Prudence, gives thee all.                      310
Keep up appearances; there lies the test;
The world will give thee credit for the rest.
Outward be fair, however foul within;
Sin if thou wilt, but then in secret sin.
This maxim's into common favour grown,
Vice is no longer vice, unless 'tis known.
Virtue, indeed, may barefaced take the field;
But vice is virtue when 'tis well conceal'd.
Should raging passion drive thee to a whore,
Let Prudence lead thee to a postern door;                         320
Stay out all night, but take especial care
That Prudence bring thee back to early prayer.
As one with watching and with study faint,
Reel in a drunkard, and reel out a saint.
  With joy the youth this useful lesson heard,
And in his memory stored each precious word;
Successfully pursued the plan, and now,
Room for my Lord--Virtue, stand by and bow.
  And is this all--is this the worldling's art,
To mask, but not amend a vicious heart                            330
Shall lukewarm caution, and demeanour grave,
For wise and good stamp every supple knave
Shall wretches, whom no real virtue warms,
Gild fair their names and states with empty forms;
While Virtue seeks in vain the wish'd-for prize,
Because, disdaining ill, she hates disguise;
Because she frankly pours fourth all her store,
Seems what she is, and scorns to pass for more
Well--be it so--let vile dissemblers hold
Unenvied power, and boast their dear-bought gold;                 340
Me neither power shall tempt, nor thirst of pelf,
To flatter others, or deny myself;
Might the whole world be placed within my span,
I would not be that thing, that prudent man.
  What! cries Sir Pliant, would you then oppose
Yourself, alone, against a host of foes?
Let not conceit, and peevish lust to rail,
Above all sense of interest prevail.
Throw off, for shame! this petulance of wit;
Be wise, be modest, and for once submit:                          350
Too hard the task 'gainst multitudes to fight;
You must be wrong; the World is in the right.
  What is this World?--A term which men have got
To signify, not one in ten knows what;
A term, which with no more precision passes
To point out herds of men than herds of asses;
In common use no more it means, we find,
Than many fools in same opinions join'd.
  Can numbers, then, change Nature's stated laws?
Can numbers make the worse the better cause?                      360
Vice must be vice, virtue be virtue still,
Though thousands rail at good, and practise ill.
Wouldst thou defend the Gaul's destructive rage,
Because vast nations on his part engage?
Though, to support the rebel Caesar's cause,
Tumultuous legions arm against the laws;
Though scandal would our patriot's name impeach,
And rails at virtues which she cannot reach,
What honest man but would with joy submit
To bleed with Cato, and retire with Pitt?[96]                     370
  Steadfast and true to virtue's sacred laws,
Unmoved by vulgar censure, or applause,
Let the World talk, my friend; that World, we know,
Which calls us guilty, cannot make us so.
Unawed by numbers, follow Nature's plan;
Assert the rights, or quit the name of man.
Consider well, weigh strictly right and wrong