dwood cut off the sharp angle which the
Atbara forms at Umdabia, and, avoiding the thick bush, soon approached the
Dervish camp. Not a sign of the enemy was seen during the march. The bush
by the Atbara appeared deserted. The camp gave no sign of life; an ominous
silence prevailed. The squadrons moved forward at a walk, keeping about
1,200 yards away from the enemy's zeriba and almost parallel to it.
Presently, as they did so, a large force of cavalry became visible
in front. It was difficult to estimate their strength, but they appeared
to be superior in numbers to the reconnaissance. The Dervish horsemen
continued to retire towards the south-east, always reaching round the
Egyptian left flank.

And while the Egyptian force advanced, as soon as they were opposite the
southern end of the zeriba, another considerable body of Dervish horse
issued from the northern side and threatened the line of retreat.
At the same time the camp began to swarm with men, and crowds of tiny
figures were observed clambering on to the entrenchments and gun
emplacements, eagerly watching the development of the fight.
The cavalry had by this time approached to within 1,000 yards of
the zeriba, and the Arab artillery began to fire occasional round shot
and clumsily fused shells.

At nine o'clock, the enemy's position having been again sketched and
the approaches reconnoitred, Colonel Broadwood ordered the retirement to
begin. The Maxims and artillery were in the centre, supported by Colonel
Broadwood and three squadrons. Captain Baring with three squadrons watched
the left flank, now in retirement become the right. Captains Le Gallais
and Persse guarded the river flank.

The cavalry retired by alternate wings in measured fashion. But the enemy
pressed on impetuously, and their horsemen, soon completely enveloping the
desert flank of the Egyptians, began to threaten a charge. To meet this
Colonel Broadwood sent one of his squadrons from the centre to join those
under Captain Baring, so that at about a quarter to ten the reconnoitring
force was formed with four squadrons towards the desert, two with the guns,
and two towards the river. The weakness of the river flank of the troops
encouraged the Dervish horse lurking in the scrub to make a bold attempt to
capture the guns. The movement was shrewd and daring, but the cavalry
commander met it with admirable skill. The springing-up of dust-clouds
hardly 300 yards away was his only warning. He immediately took command of
the two squadrons under Persse and Le Gallais, and ordered them to 'right
about wheel' and charge. Thus headed by Broadwood himself, and with their
British officers several horse-lengths in front, the Egyptians broke into
a gallop and encountered the Baggara line, which numbered not fewer than
400 men but was in loose order, with firmness. They struck them obliquely
and perhaps a third of the way down their line, and, breaking through,
routed them utterly.

While this dashing operation was carried out on the river flank
the Dervish cavalry, following up the retirement, also delivered an attack
towards the guns. Thereupon Captain Baring with two squadrons galloped from
the desert flank across the front of the artillery, and, riding through the
advancing enemy, repulsed them with loss. The charge was good and
effective, but the shock and confusion broke both squadrons, and, although
successful, they came through the Dervishes and back on to the river flank
in some disorder. Persse and Le Gallais, who had just rallied, at once
dismounted their men and opened carbine fire on the retreating Dervishes.
Their action not only checked the enemy, but prevented, by getting
the troopers off their horses, any chance of their being involved in
the disorder of the squadrons who had just charged.

Although their horsemen were thus sharply checked, the Dervish infantry
continued in spite of losses to advance rapidly, and for a few minutes
a hot musketry fire was exchanged by the Arab riflemen and the two
dismounted squadrons. Captain Persse was severely wounded, and several
other casualties occurred. But the whole force was drawing away from the
enemy, and by eleven o'clock it had passed through the gap to the
north-east and had shaken off all pursuit. The casualties in the operation
were fortunately small. One British officer was wounded; six Egyptian
troopers were killed and ten wounded; and about thirty horses were lost
or disabled.

The details of the enemy's defences were now known; his strength
was estimated from trustworthy information. It was evident from the
frequent desertions that his army was disheartened, and from his inactivity
that he was scarcely hopeful of success. The moment for destroying him had
arrived. At daybreak on the morning of the 6th the whole army broke camp at
Abadar and marched to the deserted village of Umdabia, where they
bivouacked close by a convenient pool of the Atbara and seven miles nearer
the Dervish camp.




CHAPTER XII: THE BATTLE OF THE ATBARA



April 8, 1898

In the evening of Thursday, the 7th of April, the army at Umdabia
paraded for the attack on Mahmud's zeriba. The camp lay in the scrub which
grows by the banks of the Atbara, as by those of the Nile, and in order to
profit by the open, level ground the four infantry brigades moved by
parallel routes into the desert, and then formed facing south-east
in column of brigade squares, the British brigade leading. The mounted
forces, with four batteries of artillery, waited in camp until two o'clock
the next morning, and did not break their march. The distance from the
river bank to the open plain was perhaps a mile and a half, and the whole
infantry force had cleared the scrub by six o'clock. The sun was setting,
and the red glow, brightening the sandy hillocks, made the western horizon
indefinite, so that it was hard to tell where the desert ended and the sky
began. A few gazelle, intercepted on their way to the water by the
unexpected movement of troops, trotted slowly away in the distance--
white spots on the rosy-brown of the sand--and on the great plain 12,000
infantry, conscious of their strength and eager to encounter the enemy,
were beautifully arranged in four solid masses. Then the march began.
The actual distance from the camp to the Dervish position was scarcely
seven miles, but the circle necessary to avoid the bushes and the gradual
bends of the river added perhaps another five to the length of the road.
The pace of the advance was slow, and the troops had not gone far when the
sun sank and, with hardly an interval of twilight, darkness enveloped
everything. In the stillness of the night the brigades moved steadily
forward, and only the regular scrunching of the hard sand betrayed
the advance of an overwhelming force upon their enemies.

No operation of a war is more critical than a night-march.
Over and over again in every country frightful disaster has overtaken
the rash or daring force that has attempted it. In the gloom the shape
and aspect of the ground are altered. Places well known by daylight appear
strange and unrecognisable. The smallest obstacle impedes the column,
which can only crawl sluggishly forward with continual checks and halts.
The effect of the gloom upon the nerves of the soldiers is not less than
on the features of the country. Each man tries to walk quietly, and hence
all are listening for the slightest sound. Every eye seeks to pierce the
darkness. Every sense in the body is raised to a pitch of expectancy.
In such hours doubts and fears come unbidden to the brain, and the marching
men wonder anxiously whether all will be well with the army, and whether
they themselves will survive the event. And if suddenly out of the black
silence there burst the jagged glare of rifles and the crash of a volley
followed by the yell of an attacking foe, the steadiest troops may be
thrown into confusion, and a panic, once afoot, stops only with the
destruction or dispersal of the whole force. Nevertheless, so paramount
is the necessity of attacking at dawn, with all the day to finish
the fight, that in spite of the recorded disasters and the known dangers,
the night-march is a frequent operation.

For more than two hours the force advanced, moving across smooth swells
of sand broken by rocks and with occasional small bushes. Several shallow
khors traversed the road, and these rocky ditches, filled with a strange,
sweet-scented grass, delayed the brigades until the pace was hardly
two miles an hour. The smell of the grass was noticed by the alert senses
of many, and will for ever refresh in their minds the strong impression of
the night. The breeze which had sprung up at sundown gradually freshened
and raised clouds of fine sand, which deepened the darkness with
a whiter mist.

At nine o'clock the army halted in a previously selected space,
near the deserted village of Mutrus and about two miles from the river.
Nearly half the distance to Mahmud's zeriba was accomplished, and barely
four miles in the direct line divided the combatants; but since it was not
desirable to arrive before the dawn, the soldiers, still formed in their
squares, lay down upon the ground. Meat and biscuits were served out to
the men. The transport animals went by relays to the pools of the Atbara
bed to drink and to replenish the tanks. All water-bottles were refilled,
pickets being thrown out to cover the business. Then, after sufficient
sentries had been posted, the army slept, still in array.

During the halt the moon had risen, and when at one o'clock the advance
was resumed, the white beams revealed a wider prospect and, glinting on
the fixed bayonets, crowned the squares with a sinister glitter. For three
hours the army toiled onwards at the same slow and interrupted crawl.
Strict silence was now enforced, and all smoking was forbidden.
The cavalry, the Camel Corps, and the five batteries had overtaken the
infantry, so that the whole attacking force was concentrated.
Meanwhile the Dervishes slept.

At three o'clock the glare of fires became visible to the south,
and, thus arrived before the Dervish position, the squares, with the
exception of the reserve brigade, were unlocked, and the whole force,
assuming formation of attack, now advanced in one long line through the
scattered bush and scrub, presently to emerge upon a large plateau which
overlooked Mahmud's zeriba from a distance of about 900 yards.

It was still dark, and the haze that shrouded the Dervish camp
was broken only by the glare of the watch-fires. The silence was profound.
It seemed impossible to believe that more than 25,000 men were ready to
join battle at scarcely the distance of half a mile. Yet the advance had
not been unperceived, and the Arabs knew that their terrible antagonists
crouched on the ridge waiting for the morning; For a while the suspense
was prolonged. At last, after what seemed to many an interminable period,
the uniform blackness of the horizon was broken by the first glimmer of
the dawn. Gradually the light grew stronger until, as a theatre curtain is
pulled up, the darkness rolled away, the vague outlines in the haze
became definite, and the whole scene was revealed.

The British and Egyptian army lay along the low ridge in the form of
a great bow--the British brigade on the left, MacDonald in the centre,
Maxwell curving forward on the right. The whole crest of the swell of
ground was crowned with a bristle of bayonets and the tiny figures of
thousands of men sitting or lying down and gazing curiously before them.
Behind them, in a solid square, was the transport, guarded by Lewis's
brigade. The leading squadrons of the cavalry were forming leisurely
towards the left flank. The four batteries and a rocket detachment,
moving between the infantry, ranged themselves on two convenient
positions about a hundred yards in front of the line of battalions.
All was ready. Yet everything was very quiet, and in the stillness
of the dawn it almost seemed that Nature held her breath.

Half a mile away, at the foot of the ridge, a long irregular black line
of thorn bushes enclosed the Dervish defences. Behind this zeriba low
palisades and entrenchments bent back to the scrub by the river.
Odd shapeless mounds indicated the positions of the gun-emplacements,
and various casemates could be seen in the middle of the enclosure.
Without, the bushes had been cleared away, and the smooth sand stretched
in a gentle slope to where the army waited. Within were crowds of little
straw huts and scattered bushes, growing thicker to the southward.
From among this rose the palm-trees, between whose stems the dry bed of
the Atbara was exposed, and a single pool of water gleamed in the early
sunlight. Such was Mahmud's famous zeriba, which for more than a month had
been the predominant thought in the minds of the troops. It was scarcely
imposing, and at first the soldiers thought it deserted. Only a dozen stray
horsemen sat silently on their horses outside the entrenchment, watching
their enemies, and inside a few dirty-white figures appeared and
disappeared behind the parapets. Yet, insignificant as the zeriba looked,
the smoke of many fires cooking the morning meal--never to be eaten--showed
that it was occupied by men; and gay banners of varied colour and device,
flaunting along the entrenchments or within the enclosure, declared that
some at least were prepared to die in its defence.

The hush of the hour and the suspense of the army were broken by the bang
of a gun. Everyone on the ridge jumped up and looked towards the sound.
A battery of Krupps a little to the right of the Cameron Highlanders had
opened fire. Another gun further to the right was fired. Another shell
burst over the straw huts among the palm-trees. The two Maxim-Nordenfeldt
batteries had come into action. The officers looked at their watches.
It was a quarter-past six. The bombardment had begun.

Explosion followed explosion in quick succession until all four batteries
were busily engaged. The cannonade grew loud and continuous. The rocket
detachment began to fire, and the strange projectiles hissed and screamed
as they left the troughs and jerked erratically towards the zeriba.
In the air above the enclosure shell after shell flashed into existence,
smote the ground with its leaden shower, and dispersed--a mere film--
into the haze and smoke which still hung over the Dervish encampment.
At the very first shot all the dirty-white figures disappeared, bobbing
down into their pits and shelters; but a few solitary horsemen remained
motionless for a while in the middle of the enclosure, watching the effect
of the fire, as if it had no concern with them. The British infantry stood
up on tip-toe to look at the wonderful spectacle of actual war,
and at first every shell was eagerly scrutinised and its probable effect
discussed. But the busy gunners multiplied the projectiles until so many
were alive in the air at once that all criticism was prevented. Gradually
even the strange sight became monotonous. The officers shut up their
glasses. The men began to sit down again. Many of them actually went
to sleep. The rest were soon tired of the amazing scene, the like of which
they had never looked on before, and awaited impatiently further
developments and 'some new thing.'

After the bombardment had lasted about ten minutes a great cloud of dust
sprang up in the zeriba, and hundreds of horsemen were seen scrambling into
their saddles and galloping through a gap in the rear face out into the
open sand to the right. To meet the possibility of an attempt to turn the
left flank of the attack, the eight squadrons of cavalry and two Maxim guns
jingled and clattered off in the direction of the danger. The dust,
which the swift passage of so many horsemen raised, shut the scene from the
eyes of the infantry, but continual dust-clouds above the scrub to the left
and the noise of the Maxims seemed to indicate a cavalry fight. The Baggara
horse, however, declined an unequal combat, and made no serious attempt to
interfere with the attack. Twice they showed some sort of front, and the
squadrons thought they might find opportunity to charge; but a few rounds
from the Maxims effectually checked the enemy, inflicting on each occasion
the loss of about twenty killed and wounded. With the exception of one
squadron detached on the right, the Egyptian cavalry force, however,
remained on the left flank, and shielded the operations of the
assaulting infantry.

Meanwhile the bombardment--no longer watched with curiosity--continued with
accuracy and precision. The batteries searched the interior of the zeriba,
threshing out one section after another, and working the whole ground
regularly from front to rear. The zeriba and palisades were knocked about
in many places, and at a quarter to seven a cluster of straw huts caught
fire and began to burn briskly. At a quarter-past seven the infantry were
ordered to form in column for assault.

The plan of the attack for the army was simple. The long,
deployed line were to advance steadily against the entrenchments,
subduing by their continual fire that of the enemy. They were then to
tear the zeriba to pieces. Covered by their musketry, the dense columns
of assault which had followed the line were to enter the defences
through the gaps, deploy to the right, and march through the enclosure,
clearing it with the bayonet and by fire.

At twenty minutes to eight the Sirdar ordered his bugles to sound the
general advance. The call was repeated by all the brigades, and the clear
notes rang out above the noise of the artillery. The superior officers--
with the exception of Hunter, Maxwell, and MacDonald--dismounted and placed
themselves at the head of their commands. The whole mass of the infantry,
numbering nearly eleven thousand men, immediately began to move forward
upon the zeriba. The scene as this great force crested the ridge and
advanced down the slope was magnificent and tremendous. Large solid columns
of men, preceded by a long double line, with the sunlight flashing on their
bayonets and displaying their ensigns, marched to the assault in regular
and precise array. The pipes of the Highlanders, the bands of the
Soudanese, and the drums and fifes of the English regiments added a wild
and thrilling accompaniment. As soon as the advance masked the batteries,
the guns were run forward with the firing line, in order effectually to
support the attack. The deployed battalions opened a ceaseless and
crushing fire on the entrenchment, and as the necessity of firing delayed
the advance of the attacking columns, the pace did not exceed a slow march.

The Dervishes remained silent until the troops were within 300 yards.
Then the smoke-puffs spurted out all along the stockades, and a sharp
fusillade began, gradually and continually growing in intensity until the
assaulting troops were exposed to a furious and effective fire.
From 250 yards up to the position losses began to occur. The whole
entrenchment was rimmed with flame and smoke, amid which the active figures
of the Dervish riflemen were momentarily visible, and behind the filmy
curtain solid masses of swordsmen and spearmen appeared. The fortunate
interposition of a small knoll in some degree protected the advance of the
Lincoln Regiment, but in both Highland battalions soldiers began to drop.
The whole air was full of a strange chirping whistle. The hard pebbly sand
was everywhere dashed up into dust-spurts. Numerous explosive bullets,
fired by the Arabs, made queer startling reports. The roar of the rifles
drowned even the noise of the artillery. All the deployed battalions began
to suffer. But they and the assaulting columns, regardless of the fire,
bore down on the zeriba in all the majesty of war--an avalanche of men,
stern, unflinching, utterly irresistible.

Two hundred yards from the entrenchment and one hundred and fifty from
the thorn bushes independent firing broke out, running along the line from
end to end. Shooting continually, but without any hurry or confusion,
the British and Soudanese battalions continued their slow, remorseless
advance; and it was evident that, in spite of the fierce fire of the
defence, which was now causing many casualties, the assault would
be successful.

The loss during the passage of the zeriba and in the assault of
the entrenchments was severe. Captain Findlay and Major Urquhart, of the
Cameron Highlanders, were both mortally wounded in the fight at the
stockades, and expired still cheering on their men. Major Napier,
of the same regiment, and Captain Baillie, of the Seaforth Highlanders,
received the wounds, of which they subsequently died, a few yards
further on. At all points the troops broke into the enclosure. Behind the
stockade there ran a treble trench. The whole interior was honeycombed
with pits and holes. From these there now sprang thousands of Dervishes,
desperately endeavouring to show a front to the attack. Second-Lieutenant
Gore, a young officer fresh from Sandburst, was shot dead between the thorn
fence and the stockade. Other officers in the Lincoln and the Warwickshire
regiments sustained severe wounds. Many soldiers were killed and wounded
in the narrow space. These losses were general throughout the assaulting
brigades. In the five minutes which were occupied in the passage of the
obstruction about four hundred casualties occurred. The attack continued.

The British brigade had struck the extremity of the north front of
the zeriba, and thus took the whole of the eastern face in enfilade,
sweeping it with their terrible musketry from end to end, and strewing
the ground with corpses. Although, owing to the lines of advance having
converged, there was not room for more than half the force to deploy,
the brigades pushed on. The conduct of the attack passed to the company
commanders. All these officers kept their heads, and brought their
companies up into the general line as the front gradually widened and
gaps appeared. So the whole force--companies, battalions, even brigades--
mixed up together and formed in one dense, ragged, but triumphant line,
marched on unchecked towards the river bed, driving their enemies in
hopeless confusion before them. Yet, although the Dervishes were unable to
make head against the attack, they disdained to run. Many hundreds held
their ground, firing their rifles valiantly till the end. Others charged
with spear and sword. The greater part retired in skirmishing order,
jumping over the numerous pits, walking across the open spaces,
and repeatedly turning round to shoot. The XIth Soudanese encountered
the most severe resistance after the defences were penetrated. As their
three deployed companies pressed on through the enclosure, they were
confronted by a small inner zeriba stubbornly defended by the Emir Mahmud's
personal bodyguard. These poured a sudden volley into the centre company at
close range, and so deadly was the effect that nearly all the company were
shot, falling to the ground still in their ranks, so that a British officer
passing at a little distance was provoked to inquire 'what they were doing
lying down.' Notwithstanding this severe check the regiment, gallantly led
by their colonel and supported by the Xth Soudanese, rushed this last
defence and slew its last defenders. Mahmud was himself captured.
Having duly inspected his defences and made his dispositions, he had
sheltered in a specially constructed casemate. Thence he was now
ignominiously dragged, and, on his being recognised, the intervention of
a British officer alone saved him from the fury of the excited Soudanese.

Still the advance continued, and it seemed to those who took part in it
more like a horrible nightmare than a waking reality. Captains and
subalterns collected whatever men they could, heedless of corps or
nationality, and strove to control and direct their fire. Jibba-clad
figures sprang out of the ground, fired or charged, and were destroyed at
every step. And onwards over their bodies--over pits choked with dead and
dying, among heaps of mangled camels and donkeys, among decapitated or
eviscerated trunks, the ghastly results of the shell fire; women and little
children killed by the bombardment or praying in wild terror for mercy;
blacks chained in their trenches, slaughtered in their chains--always
onwards marched the conquerors, with bayonets running blood; clothes,
hands, and faces all besmeared; the foul stench of a month's accumulated
filth in their nostrils, and the savage whistle of random bullets
in their ears.

But at about twenty minutes past eight the whole force, with the Seaforth
Highlanders well forward on the left, arrived at the bank of the Atbara,
having marched completely through the position, and shot or bayoneted all
in their path. Hundreds of Dervishes were still visible retiring across the
dry bed of the river, and making for the scrub on the opposite bank.
The leading companies of the Seaforth Highlanders and Lincolns, with such
odd parties of Camerons as had been carried on with the attack, opened a
murderous fire on these fugitives. Since they would not run their loss was
heavy, and it was a strange sight--the last vivid impression of the day--
to watch them struggling through the deep sand, with the dust knocked up
into clouds by the bullets which struck all round them. Very few escaped,
and the bodies of the killed lay thickly dotting the river-bed with heaps
of dirty-white. Then at 8.25 the 'Cease fire' sounded, and the battle
of the Atbara ended.

Forthwith the battalions began to re-form, and in every company the roll
was called. The losses had been severe. In the assault--a period not
exceeding half an hour--eighteen British, sixteen native officers and 525
men had been killed or wounded, the greater part during the passage of
the zeriba.

The actual pursuit was abortive. Colonel Lewis, with his two battalions,
followed a line of advance which led south of the zeriba, and just before
reaching the river bank found and fired upon a few Dervishes retreating
through the scrub. All the cavalry and the Camel Corps crossed the Atbara
and plunged into the bush on the further side. But so dense and tangled
was the country that after three miles of peril and perplexity they
abandoned he attempt, and the routed Arabs fled unmolested. The Baggara
horse had ridden off during the action, headed by the prudent Osman Digna
--whose position in the zeriba was conveniently suited to such a
manoeuvre--and under that careful leadership suffered little loss.
The rest of the army was, however, destroyed or dispersed. The fugitives
fled up the Atbara river, leaving many wounded to die in the scrub,
all along their line of retreat. Of the powerful force of 12,000 fighting
men which Mahmud had gathered at Metemma, scarcely 4,000 reached Gedaret
in safety. These survivors were added to the army of Ahmed Fedil, and thus
prevented from spreading their evil tidings among the populace at Omdurman.
Osman Digna, Wad Bishara, and other important Emirs whose devotion and
discretion were undoubted, alone returned to the capital.

As soon as the troops were re-formed, the zeriba was evacuated and
the army drew up in line along the neighbouring ridge. It was then only
nine o'clock, and the air was still cool and fresh. The soldiers lit fires,
made some tea, and ate their rations of biscuits and meat. Then they lay
down and waited for evening. Gradually, as the hours passed, the sun became
powerful. There was no shade, and only a few thin, leafless bushes rose
from the sand. The hours of a day, peculiarly hot, even for the country
and season, dragged wearily away. The sandy ridge beat back the rays till
the air above was like the breath of a furnace and the pebbly ground
burned. The water in the fantasses and bottles was hot and scarce. The pool
of the Atbara was foul and tainted. In spite of the devoted efforts of the
few medical officers who had been allowed to accompany the force,
the wounded officers and soldiers endured the greatest miseries, and it is
certain that several died of their wounds who might in happier
circumstances have been saved.

Several hundred prisoners were taken. They were mostly negroes--for the
Arabs refused to surrender, and fought to the last or tried to escape.
The captive blacks, who fight with equal willingness on either side,
were content to be enlisted in the Soudanese regiments; so that many of
those who served the Khalifa on the Atbara helped to destroy him
at Omdurman. The most notable prisoner was the Emir Mahmud--a tall,
strong Arab, about thirty years old. Immediately after his capture he was
dragged before the Sirdar. 'Why,' inquired the General, 'have you come into
my country to burn and kill?' 'I have to obey my orders, and so have you,'
retorted the captive sullenly, yet not without a certain dignity. To other
questions he returned curt or evasive answers, and volunteered the opinion
that all this slaughter would be avenged at Omdurman. He was removed in
custody--a fine specimen of proud brutality, worthy perhaps of some better
fate than to linger indefinitely in the gaol at Rosetta.

With the cool of the evening the army left its bed of torment on the ridge
and returned to Umdabia. The homeward march was a severe trial; the troops
were exhausted; the ground was broken; the guides, less careful or less
fortunate than on the previous night, lost their way. The columns were
encumbered with wounded, most of whom were already in a high state
of fever, and whose sufferings were painful to witness. It was not until
after midnight that the camp was reached. The infantry had been
continuously under arms--marching, fighting, or sweltering in the sun--
for thirty hours, and most of them had hardly closed their eyes for two
days. Officers and soldiers--British, Soudanese, and Egyptian--struggled
into their bivouacs, and fell asleep, very weary but victorious.

British and Egyptian casualties on the Atbara included 20 officers
and 539 men killed or wounded. The Dervish loss was officially estimated
at 40 Emirs and 3,000 dervishes killed. No statistics as to their wounded
are forthcoming.

     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .

As the battle of the Atbara had been decisive, the whole Expeditionary
Force went into summer quarters. The Egyptian army was distributed into
three principal garrisons--four battalions at Atbara camp, six battalions
and the cavalry at Berber, three battalions at Abadia. The artillery and
transport were proportionately divided. The British brigade encamped
with two battalions at Darmali and two at the village of Selim,
about a mile and a half distant.

For the final phase of the campaign three new gunboats had been ordered
from England. These were now sent in sections over the Desert Railway.
Special arrangements were made to admit of the clumsy loads passing trains
on the ordinary sidings. As usual, the contrivances of the railway
subalterns were attended with success. Sir H. Kitchener himself proceeded
to Abadia to accelerate by his personal activity and ingenuity the
construction of the vessels on which so much depended. Here during the heat
of the summer he remained, nursing his gunboats, maturing his plans,
and waiting only for the rise of the river to complete the downfall
of his foes.




CHAPTER XIII: THE GRAND ADVANCE



All through the early months of the summer the preparations for the final
advance were steadily proceeding. A second British brigade was ordered to
the Soudan. A new battery of Howitzer artillery--the 37th--firing enormous
shells charged with lyddite, was despatched from England. Two large
40-pounder guns were sent from Cairo. Another British Maxim battery of four
guns was formed in Cairo from men of the Royal Irish Fusiliers. Three new
screw gunboats of the largest size and most formidable pattern had been
passed over the indefatigable railway in sections, and were now launched on
the clear waterway south of the Atbara encampment; and last, but not least,
the 21st Lancers [The author led a troop in this regiment during the final
advance to Omdurman; and it is from this standpoint that the ensuing
chapters are to some extent conceived] were ordered up the Nile. Events now
began to move rapidly. Within three weeks of the arrival of the
reinforcements the climax of the war was over; within five weeks the
British troops were returning home. There was no delay at the Atbara
encampment. Even before the whole of the second brigade had arrived,
some of its battalions were being despatched to Wad Hamed, the new point of
concentration. This place was a few miles north of Shabluka, and only
fifty-eight miles from Omdurman. It was evident, therefore, that the
decisive moment of the three years' war approached. The Staff, the British
infantry, one squadron, the guns, and the stores were carried south in
steamers and barges. The Egyptian division marched to Wad Hamed by
brigades. The horses of the batteries, the transport animals of the British
division (about 1,400 in number), the chargers of the officers,
some cattle, and most of the war correspondents were sent along the left
bank of the river escorted by two squadrons of the 21st Lancers
and two Maxim guns.

All the thirteen squadrons of cavalry remained three days at Wad Hamed.
After the fatigues of the march we were glad to have an opportunity of
looking about, of visiting regiments known in other circumstances, and of
writing a few letters. This last was the most important, for it was now
known that after leaving Wad Hamed there would be no post or communication
with Cairo and Europe until the action had been fought and all was over.
The halt was welcome for another reason. The camp itself was well worth
looking at. It lay lengthways along the river-bank, and was nearly two
miles from end to end. The Nile secured it from attack towards the east.
On the western and southern sides were strong lines of thorn bushes,
staked down and forming a zeriba; and the north face was protected by a
deep artificial watercourse which allowed the waters of the river to make
a considerable inundation. From the bank of this work the whole camp could
be seen. Far away to the southward the white tents of the British division;
a little nearer rows and rows of grass huts and blanket shelters,
the bivouacs of the Egyptian and Soudanese brigades; the Sirdar's large
white tent, with the red flag of Egypt flying from a high staff, on a small
eminence; and to the right the grove of palm-trees in which the officers of
the Egyptian cavalry had established themselves. The whole riverside was
filled by a forest of masts. Crowds of gyassas, barges, and steamers were
moored closely together; and while looking at the furled sails, the tangled
riggings, and the tall funnels it was easy for the spectator to imagine
that this was the docks of some populous city in a well-developed
and civilised land.

But the significance of the picture grew when the mind, outstripping the
eye, passed beyond the long, low heights of the gorge and cataract of
Shabluka and contemplated the ruins of Khartoum and the city of Omdurman.
There were known to be at least 50,000 fighting men collected in their last
stronghold. We might imagine the scene of excitement, rumour, and resolve
in the threatened capital. The Khalifa declares that he will destroy the
impudent invaders. The Mahdi has appeared to him in a dream. Countless
angelic warriors will charge with those of Islam. The 'enemies of God'
will perish and their bones will whiten the broad plain. Loud is the
boasting, and many are the oaths which are taken, as to what treatment
the infidel dogs shall have when they are come to the city walls.
The streets swarm with men and resound with their voices. Everywhere is
preparation and defiance. And yet over all hangs the dark shadow of fear.
Nearer and nearer comes this great serpent of an army, moving so slowly and
with such terrible deliberation, but always moving. A week ago it was sixty
miles away, now it is but fifty. Next week only twenty miles will
intervene, and then the creep of the serpent will cease, and, without
argument or parley, one way or the other the end will come.

The road to the next camp was a long one; for though Royan island,
opposite to which the site had been selected, was only seven miles in the
direct line, it was necessary to march eight miles into the desert to avoid
the Shabluka heights, and then to turn back to the Nile. The infantry were
therefore provided with camel transport to carry sufficient water in small
iron tanks for one night; and they were thus able to bivouac half-way,
and to complete the journey on the next morning, thus making a two days'
march. The mounted troops, who remained at Wad Hamed till all had gone
south, were ordered to move on the 27th of August, and by a double march
catch up the rest of the army.

Wad Hamed then ceased for the time being to exist except in name.
All the stores and transport were moved by land or water to the south of
Shabluka, and an advanced base was formed upon Royan island. Communications
with the Atbara encampment and with Cairo were dropped, and the army
carried with them in their boats sufficient supplies to last until after
the capture of Omdurman, when the British division would be immediately
sent back. It was calculated that the scope of this operation would not
be greater than three weeks, and on the 27th the army were equipped with
twenty-one days' supplies, of which two were carried by the troops, five by
the regimental barges, and fourteen in the army transport sailing-vessels.
All surplus stores were deposited at Royan island, where a field hospital
was also formed.

The Expeditionary Force which was thus concentrated, equipped, and supplied
for the culminating moment of the River War, was organised as follows:

 Commander-in-Chief: THE SIRDAR

 The British Division: MAJOR-GENERAL GATACRE Commanding

  1st Brigade                         2nd Brigade
  BRIGADIER-GEN. WAUCHOPE             BRIGADIER-GEN. LYTTELTON
  1st Btn. Royal Warwickshire Regt.   1st Btn. Grenadier Guards
   "  "   Lincoln Regiment             "   "   Northumberland Fusiliers
   "  "   Seaforth Highlanders        2nd  "   Lancashire Fusiliers
   "  "   Cameron Highlanders          "   "   Rifle Brigade

 The Egyptian Division: MAJOR-GENERAL HUNTER Commanding

  1st Brigade       2nd Brigade       3rd Brigade     4th Brigade
  COL. MACDONALD    COL. MAXWELL      COL. LEWIS      COL. COLLINSON
  2nd Egyptians     8th Egyptians     3rd Egyptians   1st Egyptians
  IXth Soudanese    XIIth Soudanese   4th     "       5th (half) "
  Xth     "         XIIIth   "        7th     "       17th       "
  XIth    "         XIVth    "        15th    "       18th       "

 Mounted Forces

  21st Lancers         Camel Corps        Egyptian Cavalry
  COLONEL MARTIN       MAJOR TUDWAY       COLONEL BROADWOOD
  4 squadrons          8 companies        9 squadrons

 Artillery: COLONEL LONG Commanding

  (British)  32nd Field Battery, R.A.(with two 40-pounder guns) 8 guns
      "      37th   "      "      "   (5-inch Howitzers)   .    6 guns
  (Egyptian) The Horse Battery, E.A. (Krupp)  .     .     .     6 guns
      "      No. 1 Field Battery, E.A. (Maxim-Nordenfeldt)      6 guns
      "      No. 2   "      "      "    .     .     .     .     6 guns
      "      No. 3   "      "      "    .     .     .     .     6 guns
      "      No. 4   "      "      "    .     .     .     .     6 guns

 Machine Guns

  (British)  Detachment 16th Co. Eastern Division R.A.   .    6 Maxim
      "          "      Royal Irish Fusiliers     .     .     4   "
  (Egyptian) 2 Maxim guns to each of the five
                Egyptian batteries     .     .    .     .     10  "

 Engineers

  Detachment of Royal Engineers

 The Flotilla: COMMANDER KEPPEL

  1898 Class Armoured Screw Gunboats (3): the Sultan, the Melik, the Sheikh

   each carrying: 2 Nordenfeldt guns
                  1 quick-firing 12-pounder gun
                  1 Howitzer
                  4 Maxims

  1896 Class Armoured Screw Gunboats (3): the Fateh, The Naser, the Zafir

   each carrying: 1 quick-firing 12-pounder gun
                  2 6-pounder guns
                  4 Maxims

  Old Class Armoured Stern-wheel Gunboats (4): the Tamai, the Hafir*,
                                                the Abu Klea, the Metemma

   each carrying: 1 12-pounder gun
                  2 Maxim-Nordenfeldt guns

 Steam Transport

  5 Steamers: The Dal, The Akasha, the Tahra, The Okma, the Kaibar

    [*The steamer El Teb, wrecked at the Fourth Cataract in 1897, had been
       refloated, and to change the luck was renamed Hafir.]


The total strength of the Expeditionary Force amounted to 8,200 British
and 17,600 Egyptian soldiers, with 44 guns and 20 Maxims on land,
with 36 guns and 24 Maxims on the river, and with 2,469 horses, 896 mules,
3,524 camels, and 229 donkeys, besides followers and private animals.

While the army were to move along the west bank of the river--the Omdurman
side--a force of Arab irregulars, formed from the friendly tribes, would
march along the east bank and clear it of any Dervishes. All the debris
which the Egyptian advance had broken off the Dervish Empire was thus to be
hurled against that falling State. Eager for plunder, anxious to be on the
winning side, Sheikhs and Emirs from every tribe in the Military Soudan
had hurried, with what following the years of war had left them, to Wad
Hamed. On the 26th of August the force of irregulars numbered about 2,500
men, principally Jaalin survivors, but also comprising bands and
individuals of Bisharin; of Hadendoa from Suakin; of Shukria,
the camel-breeders; of Batahin, who had suffered a bloody diminution at
the Khalifa's hands; of Shaiggia, Gordon's vexatious allies; and lastly
some Gellilab Arabs under a reputed son of Zubehr Pasha. The command of
the whole motley force was given to Major Stuart-Wortley, Lieutenant Wood
accompanying him as Staff Officer; and the position of these officers among
the cowed and untrustworthy Arabs was one of considerable peril.

While the infantry divisions were marching round the heights of Shabluka
to the camp opposite Royan island, the steamers and gunboats ascended the
stream and passed through the gorge, dragging up with them the whole fleet
of barges and gyassas. The northern end of the narrow passage had been
guarded by the five Dervish forts, which now stood deserted and dismantled.
They were well built, and formed nearly a straight line--four on one bank
and one on the other. Each fort had three embrasures, and might,
when occupied, have been a formidable defence to the cataract.

Threshing up against the current, the gunboats and stern-wheelers
one after another entered the gorge. The Nile, which below is nearly a mile
across, narrows to a bare 200 yards. The pace of the stream becomes more
swift. Great swirls and eddies disturb its surface. High on either side
rise black, broken, and precipitous cliffs, looking like piles of gigantic
stones. Through and among them the flood-river pours with a loud roaring,
breaking into foam and rapids wherever the submerged rocks are near the
surface. Between the barren heights and the water is a strip of green
bushes and grass. The bright verdant colour seems the more brilliant by
contrast with the muddy water and the sombre rocks. It is a forbidding
passage. A few hundred riflemen scattered Afridiwise among the tops of
the hills, a few field-guns in the mud forts by the bank, and the door
would be shut.

The mounted forces marched from Wad Hamed at dawn on the 27th and,
striking out into the desert, skirted the rocky hills. Besides the 21st
Lancers and nine squadrons of Egyptian cavalry, the column included the
Camel Corps, 800 strong, and a battery of Horse Artillery; and it was a
fine sight to see all these horsemen and camel-men trotting swiftly across
the sand by squadrons and companies, with a great cloud of dust rising
from each and drifting away to the northward.

The zeriba of the camp at Royan had been already made and much of the
ground cleared by the energy of the Soudanese division, which had been the
first to arrive. An advanced depot was established at Royan island which
was covered with white hospital tents, near which there was a forest of
masts and sails. The barges and boats containing the stores and kits
awaited the troops, and they had only to bivouac along the river-bank and
shelter themselves as quickly as possible from the fierce heat of the sun.
The dark hills of Shabluka, among and beneath which the camp and army
nestled, lay behind us now. To the south the country appeared a level plain
covered with bush and only broken by occasional peaks of rock. The eternal
Nile flowed swiftly by the tents and shelters, and disappeared mysteriously
in the gloom of the gorge; and on the further bank there rose a great
mountain--Jebel Royan--from the top of which it was said that men
might see Khartoum.

The whole army broke camp at Royan on the 28th of August at four o'clock
in the afternoon, and marched to Wady el Abid six miles further south.
We now moved on a broad front, which could immediately be converted into a
fighting formation. This was the first time that it had been possible to
see the whole force--infantry, cavalry, and guns--on the march at once.
In the clear air the amazing detail of the picture was striking. There were
six brigades of infantry, composed of twenty-four battalions; yet every
battalion showed that it was made up of tiny figures, all perfectly defined
on the plain. A Soudanese brigade had been sent on to hold the ground with
pickets until the troops had constructed a zeriba. But a single Dervish
horseman managed to evade these and, just as the light faded, rode up to
the Warwickshire Regiment and flung his broad-bladed spear in token of
defiance. So great was the astonishment which this unexpected apparition
created that the bold man actually made good his escape uninjured.

On the 29th the forces remained halted opposite Um Teref, and only the
Egyptian cavalry went out to reconnoitre. They searched the country for
eight or nine miles, and Colonel Broadwood returned in the afternoon,
having found a convenient camping-ground, but nothing else. During the day
the news of two river disasters arrived--the first to ourselves, the second
to our foes. On the 28th the gunboat Zafir was steaming from the Atbara to
Wad Hamed, intending thereafter to ascend the Shabluka Cataract.
Suddenly--overtaken now, as on the eve of the advance on Dongola,
by misfortune--she sprang a leak, and, in spite of every effort to run her
ashore, foundered by the head in deep water near Metemma. The officers on
board--among whom was Keppel, the commander of the whole flotilla--
had scarcely time to leap from the wreck, and with difficulty made their
way to the shore, where they were afterwards found very cold and hungry.
The Sirdar received the news at Royan. His calculations were disturbed by
the loss of a powerful vessel; but he had allowed for accidents, and in
consequence accepted the misfortune very phlegmatically. The days of
struggling warfare were over, and the General knew that he had
a safe margin of strength.

The other catastrophe afflicted the Khalifa, and its tale was brought to
the advancing army by the Intelligence spies, who to the last--even when
the forces were closing--tried to pass between them. Not content with
building batteries along the banks, Abdullah, fearing the gunboats,
had resolved to mine the river. An old officer of the old Egyptian army,
long a prisoner in Omdurman, was brought from his chains and ordered to
construct mines. Two iron boilers were filled with gunpowder, and it was
arranged that these should be sunk in the Nile at convenient spots.
Buried in the powder of each was a loaded pistol with a string attached to
the trigger. On pulling the string the pistol, and consequently the mine,
would be exploded. So the Khalifa argued; nor was he wrong. It was resolved
to lay one mine first. On the 17th of August the Dervish steamer Ismailia
moved out into the middle of the Nile, carrying one of the boilers fully
charged and equipped with pistol detonator. Arrived at the selected spot,
the great cylinder of powder was dropped over the side. Its efficiency as
a destructive engine was immediately demonstrated, for, on the string being
pulled by accident, the pistol discharged itself, the powder exploded,
and the Ismailia and all on board were blown to pieces.

Undeterred by the loss of life, and encouraged by the manifest power
of the contrivance, the Khalifa immediately ordered the second of the two
boilers to be sunk in the stream. As the old Egyptian officer had been
killed by the explosion, the Emir in charge of the arsenal was entrusted
with the perilous business. He rose, however, to the occasion, and, having
first taken the precaution of letting the water into the boiler so as to
damp the powder, he succeeded in laying the second mine in mid-stream,
to the joy and delight of Abdullah, who, not understanding that it was
now useless, overwhelmed him with praise and presents.

Beguiled with such stories and diversions, the day of rest at
Wady el Abid passed swiftly. Night brought beetles, bugs, and ants,
and several men were stung by scorpions--a most painful though not
dangerous affair. Towards morning it began to rain, and everyone was
drenched and chilled when the sun rose across the river from behind a great
conical hill and dispersed the clouds into wisps of creamy flame. Then we
mounted and set out. This day the army moved prepared for immediate action,
and all the cavalry were thrown out ten miles in front in a great screen
which reached from the gunboats on the river to the Camel Corps
far out in the desert.

When we had advanced a little further, there arose above the scrub
the dark outlines of a rocky peak, the hill of Merreh. The whole of
the 21st Lancers now concentrated, and, trotting quickly forward, occupied
this position, whence a considerable tract of country was visible. We were
hardly twenty-five miles from Khartoum, and of that distance at least ten
miles were displayed. Yet there were no enemy. Had they all fled?
Would there be no opposition? Should we find Omdurman deserted
or submissive? These were questions which occurred to everyone, and many
answered them affirmatively. Colonel Martin had meanwhile heliographed
back to the Sirdar that all the ground was up to this point clear,
and that there were no Dervishes to be seen. After some delay orders were
signalled back for one squadron to remain till sunset in observation on
the hill and for the rest to return to camp.

With two troops thrown out a mile in front we waited watching on the hill.
Time passed slowly, for the sun was hot. Suddenly it became evident that
one of the advanced troops was signalling energetically. The message was
spelt out. The officer with the troop perceived Dervishes in his front.
We looked through our glasses. It was true. There, on a white patch of sand
among the bushes of the plain, were a lot of little brown spots, moving
slowly across the front of the cavalry outposts towards an Egyptian
squadron, which was watching far out to the westward. There may have been
seventy horsemen altogether. We could not take our eyes off those distant
specks we had travelled so far, if possible, to destroy. Presently the
Dervish patrol approached our right troop, and apparently came nearer than
they imagined, for the officer who commanded--Lieutenant Conolly--
opened fire on them with carbines, and we saw them turn and ride back,
but without hurrying.

The camp to which we returned was a very different place from the one
we had left in the morning. Instead of lying along the river-bank,
it was pitched in the thinner scrub. The bushes had on all sides been cut
down, the ground cleared, and an immense oblong zeriba was built,
around which the six brigades were drawn up, and into which cavalry, guns,
and transport were closely packed.

Very early next morning the advance was continued. The army paraded
by starlight, and with the first streak of the dawn the cavalry were again
flung far out in advance. Secure behind the screen of horsemen and Camel
Corps, the infantry advanced in regular array. Up to the 27th of August
the force marched by divisions; but on and after the 30th of August the
whole force commenced to march in fighting formation. The British division
was on the left, the Egyptian army on the right. All the brigades marched
in line, or in a slight echelon. The flank brigades kept their flank
battalions in column or in fours. Other British battalions had six
companies in the front line (in company column of fours) and two companies
in support. The Egyptian brigades usually marched with three battalions in
the front line and one in reserve, each of the three in the front line
having four companies in front and two in support.

The spectacle of the moving army--the grand army of the Nile--as it
advanced towards its goal was especially wonderful in the clear air of the
early morning; a long row of great brown masses of infantry and artillery,
with a fringe of cavalry dotting the plain for miles in front, with the
Camel Corps--chocolate-coloured men on cream-coloured camels--stretching
into the desert on the right, and the white gunboats stealing silently up
the river on the left, scrutinising the banks with their guns; while far
in rear the transport trailed away into the mirage, and far in front the
field-glass disclosed the enemy's patrols. Day after day and hour after
hour the advance was maintained. Arrived at the camping-ground, the zeriba
had to be built; and this involved a long afternoon of fatigue. In the
evening, when the dusty, tired-out squadrons returned, the troopers
attended to their horses, and so went to sleep in peace. It was then that
the dusty, tired-out infantry provided sentries and pickets, who in a
ceaseless succession paced the zeriba and guarded its occupants.

The position of the next camp was a strong one, on a high swell of
open ground which afforded a clear field of fire in every direction.
Everyone that night lay down to sleep with a feeling of keen expectancy.
One way or the other all doubts would be settled the next day. The cavalry
would ride over the Kerreri Hills, if they were not occupied by the enemy,
and right up to the walls of Omdurman. If the Dervishes had any army--
if there was to be any battle--we should know within a few hours.
The telegrams which were despatched that evening were the last to reach
England before the event. During the night heavy rain fell, and all the
country was drenched. The telegraph-wire had been laid along the ground,
as there had been no time to pole it. The sand when dry is a sufficient
insulator, but when wet its non-conductivity is destroyed. Hence all
communications ceased, and those at home who had husbands, sons, brothers,
or friends in the Expeditionary Force were left in an uncertainty as great
as that in which we slept--and far more painful.

The long day had tired everyone. Indeed, the whole fortnight
since the cavalry convoy had started from the Atbara had been a period
of great exertion, and the Lancers, officers and men, were glad to eat a
hasty meal, and forget the fatigues of the day, the hardness of the ground,
and the anticipations of the morrow in deep sleep. The camp was watched by
the infantry, whose labours did not end with the daylight. At two o'clock
in the morning the clouds broke in rain and storm. Great blue flashes of
lightning lit up the wide expanse of sleeping figures, of crowded animals,
and of shelters fluttering in the wind; and from the centre of the camp it
was even possible to see for an instant the continuous line of sentries who
watched throughout the night with ceaseless vigilance. Nor was this all.
Far away, near the Kerreri Hills, the yellow light of a burning village
shot up, unquenched by the rain, and only invisible in the brightest
flashes of the lightning. There was war to the southward.




CHAPTER XIV: THE OPERATIONS OF THE FIRST OF SEPTEMBER



The British and Egyptian cavalry, supported by the Camel Corps
and Horse Artillery, trotted out rapidly, and soon interposed a distance
of eight miles between them and the army. As before, the 21st Lancers
were on the left nearest the river, and the Khedivial squadrons curved
backwards in a wide half-moon to protect the right flank. Meanwhile the
gunboat flotilla was seen to be in motion. The white boats began to ascend
the stream leisurely. Yet their array was significant. Hitherto they had
moved at long and indefinite intervals--one following perhaps a mile,
or even two miles, behind the other. Now a regular distance of about 300
yards was observed. The orders of the cavalry were to reconnoitre Omdurman;
of the gunboats to bombard it.

As soon as the squadrons of the 21st Lancers had turned the shoulder of
the steep Kerreri Hills, we saw in the distance a yellow-brown pointed
dome rising above the blurred horizon. It was the Mahdi's Tomb, standing
in the very heart of Omdurman. From the high ground the field-glass
disclosed rows and rows of mud houses, making a dark patch on the brown of
the plain. To the left the river, steel-grey in the morning light, forked
into two channels, and on the tongue of land between them the gleam of a
white building showed among the trees. Before us were the ruins
of Khartoum and the confluence of the Blue and White Niles.

A black, solitary hill rose between the Kerreri position and Omdurman.
A long, low ridge running from it concealed the ground beyond. For the rest
there was a wide-rolling, sandy plain of great extent, surrounded on three
sides by rocky hills and ridges, and patched with coarse, starveling grass
or occasional bushes. By the banks of the river which framed the picture on
the left stood a straggling mud village, and this, though we did not
know it, was to be the field of Omdurman. It was deserted. Not a living
creature could be seen. And now there were many who said once and for all
that there would be no fight; for here we were arrived at the very walls
of Omdurman, and never an enemy to bar our path. Then, with four squadrons
looking very tiny on the broad expanse of ground, we moved steadily
forward, and at the same time the Egyptian cavalry and the Camel Corps
entered the plain several miles further to the west, and they too
began to trot across it.

It was about three miles to the last ridge which lay between us
and the city. If there was a Dervish army, if there was to be a battle,
if the Khalifa would maintain his boast and accept the arbitrament of war,
much must be visible from that ridge. We looked over. At first nothing was
apparent except the walls and houses of Omdurman and the sandy plain
sloping up from the river to distant hills. Then four miles away on our
right front emerged a long black line with white spots. It was the enemy.
It seemed to us, as we looked, that there might be 3,000 men behind a
high dense zeriba of thorn-bushes. That, said the officers, was better
than nothing. It is scarcely necessary to describe our tortuous movements
towards the Dervish position. Looking at it now from one point of view,
now from another, but always edging nearer, the cavalry slowly approached,
and halted in the plain about three miles away--three great serpents
of men--the light-coloured one, the 21st Lancers; a much longer and a
blacker one, the Egyptian squadrons; a mottled one, the Camel Corps and
Horse Artillery. From this distance a clearer view was possible,
and we distinguished many horsemen riding about the flanks and front of
the broad dark line which crowned the crest of the slope. A few of these
rode carelessly towards the squadrons to look at them. They were not
apparently acquainted with the long range of the Lee-Metford carbine.
Several troops were dismounted, and at 800 yards fire was made on them.
Two were shot and fell to the ground. Their companions, dismounting,
examined them, picked up one, let the other lie, and resumed their ride,
without acknowledging the bullets by even an increase of pace.

While this passed, so did the time. It was now nearly eleven o'clock.
Suddenly the whole black line which seemed to be zeriba began to move.
It was made of men, not bushes. Behind it other immense masses and lines
of men appeared over the crest; and while we watched, amazed by the wonder
of the sight, the whole face of the slope became black with swarming
savages. Four miles from end to end, and, as it seemed, in five great
divisions, this mighty army advanced--swiftly. The whole side of the hill
seemed to move. Between the masses horsemen galloped continually;
before them many patrols dotted the plain; above them waved hundreds of
banners, and the sun, glinting on many thousand hostile spear-points,
spread a sparkling cloud.

It is now known that the Khalifa had succeeded in concentrating at
Omdurman an army of more than 60,000 men. He remembered that all the former
victories over the Egyptians had been won by the Dervishes attacking.
He knew that in all the recent defeats they had stood on the defensive.
He therefore determined not to oppose the advance at the Shabluka or on
the march thence to Omdurman. All was to be staked on the issue of a great
battle on the plains of Kerreri. The Mahdi's prophecy was propitious.
The strength of the Dervish army seemed overwhelming. When the 'Turks'
arrived, they should be driven into the river. Accordingly the Khalifa had
only watched the advance of the Expeditionary Force from Wad Hamed with
a patrol of cavalry about 200 strong. On the 30th he was informed that the
enemy drew near, and on the 31st he assembled his bodyguard and regular
army, with the exception of the men needed for the river batteries,
on the Omdurman parade ground. He harangued the leaders; and remained
encamped with his troops during the night. The next day all the male
population of the city were compelled to join the army in the field,
and only the gunners and garrisons on the river-face remained within.
In spite, however, of his utmost vigilance, nearly 6,000 men deserted
during the nights of the 31st of August and the 1st of September.
This and the detachments in the forts reduced the force actually engaged
in the battle to 52,000 men. The host that now advanced towards the British
and Egyptian cavalry was perhaps 4,000 stronger.

Their array was regular and precise, and, facing northeast, stretched for
more than four miles from flank to flank. A strong detachment of the
mulazemin or guard was extended in front of the centre. Ali-Wad-Helu,
with his bright green flag, prolonged the line to the left; and his 5,000
warriors, chiefly of the Degheim and Kenana tribes, soon began to reach out
towards the Egyptian cavalry. The centre and main force of the army was
composed of the regular troops, formed in squares under Osman Sheikh-ed-Din
and Osman Azrak. This great body comprised 12,000 black riflemen and about
13,000 black and Arab spearmen. In their midst rose the large, dark green
flag which the Sheikh-ed-Din had adopted to annoy Ali-Wad-Helu, of whose
distinctive emblem he was inordinately jealous. The Khalifa with his own
bodyguard, about 2,000 strong, followed the centre. In rear of all marched
Yakub with the Black Flag and 13,000 men--nearly all swordsmen and
spearmen, who with those extended in front of the army constituted the
guard. The right wing was formed by the brigade of the Khalifa Sherif,
consisting of 2,000 Danagla tribesmen, whose principal ensign was a broad
red flag. Osman Digna, with about 1,700 Hadendoa, guarded the extreme right
and the flank nearest Omdurman, and his fame needed no flag. Such was the
great army which now moved swiftly towards the watching squadrons;
and these, pausing on the sandy ridge, pushed out a fringe of tentative
patrols, as if to assure themselves that what they saw was real.

The Egyptian cavalry had meanwhile a somewhat different view of
the spectacle. Working on the right of the 21st Lancers, and keeping
further from the river, the leading squadrons had reached the extreme
western end of the Kerreri ridge at about seven o'clock. From here the
Mahdi's Tomb was visible, and, since the rocks of Surgham did not obstruct
the view from this point, the British officers, looking through their
field-glasses, saw what appeared to be a long column of brown spots moving
south-westwards across the wide plain which stretches away to the west of
Omdurman. The telescope, an invaluable aid to reconnaissance, developed
the picture. The brown objects proved to be troops of horses grazing;
and beyond, to the southward, camels and white flapping tents could be
distinguished. There were no signs that a retreat was in progress;
but from such a distance--nearly four miles--no certain information
could be obtained, and Colonel Broadwood decided to advance closer.
He accordingly led his whole command south-westward towards a round-topped
hill which rose about four miles from the end of the Kerreri ridge and was
one of the more distant hill features bounding the plain on the western
side. The Egyptian cavalry moved slowly across the desert to this new
point of observation. On their way they traversed the end of the Khor
Shambat, a long depression which is the natural drainage channel of the
plains of Kerreri and Omdurman, and joins the Nile about four miles from
the city. The heavy rain of the previous night had made the low ground
swampy, and pools of water stood in the soft, wet sand. The passage,
however, presented no great difficulty, and at half-past eleven the
Egyptian squadrons began to climb the lower slopes of the round-topped
hill. Here the whole scene burst suddenly upon them. Scarcely three miles
away the Dervish army was advancing with the regularity of parade.
The south wind carried the martial sound of horns and drums and--far more
menacing--the deep murmur of a multitude to the astonished officers.
Like the 21st Lancers--three miles away to their left, at the end of the
long sandy ridge which runs westward from Surgham--the soldiers remained
for a space spell-bound. But all eyes were soon drawn from the thrilling
spectacle of the Dervish advance by the sound of guns on the river.

At about eleven o'clock the gunboats had ascended the Nile, and now
engaged the enemy's batteries on both banks. Throughout the day the loud
reports of their guns could be heard, and, looking from our position on
the ridge, we could see the white vessels steaming slowly forward against
the current, under clouds of black smoke from their furnaces and amid
other clouds of white smoke from the artillery. The forts, which mounted
nearly fifty guns, replied vigorously; but the British aim was accurate
and their fire crushing. The embrasures were smashed to bits and many of
the Dervish guns dismounted. The rifle trenches which flanked the forts
were swept by the Maxim guns. The heavier projectiles, striking the mud
walls of the works and houses, dashed the red dust high into the air and
scattered destruction around. Despite the tenacity and courage of the
Dervish gunners, they were driven from their defences and took refuge
among the streets of the city. The great wall of Omdurman was breached
in many places, and a large number of unfortunate non-combatants
were killed and wounded.

Meanwhile the Arab irregulars, under Major Wortley, had been sharply
engaged. That officer's orders were to co-operate with the flotilla by
taking in rear the forts and fortified villages on the east bank of the
river. As soon as the gunboats had silenced the lower forts, Major Wortley
ordered the irregulars to advance on them and on the houses. He placed the
Jaalin, who were practically the only trustworthy men in his force,
in reserve, and formed the tribes according to their capabilities and
prejudices. On the order to attack being given, the whole force, some 3,000
strong, advanced on the buildings, from which the Dervishes at once
opened fire. Arrived within 500 yards they halted, and began to discharge
their rifles in the air; they also indulged in frantic dances expressive of
their fury and valour, but declined to advance any further.

Major Wortley then ordered the Jaalin to attack. These--formed in a
long column, animated by the desire for vengeance, and being besides brave
men--moved upon the village at a slow pace, and, surrounding one house
after another, captured it and slew all its defenders; including the
Dervish Emir and 350 of his followers. The Jaalin themselves suffered a
loss of about sixty killed and wounded.

The village being captured, and the enemy on the east bank
killed or dispersed, the gunboats proceeded to engage the batteries higher
up the river. The howitzer battery was now landed, and at 1.30 began to
bombard the Mahdi's Tomb. This part of the proceedings was plainly visible
to us, waiting and watching on the ridge, and its interest even distracted
attention from the Dervish army. The dome of the tomb rose tall and
prominent above the mud houses of the city. A lyddite shell burst over it
--a great flash, a white ball of smoke, and, after a pause, the dull thud
of the distant explosion. Another followed. At the third shot, instead of
the white smoke, there was a prodigious cloud of red dust, in which the
whole tomb disappeared. When this cleared away we saw that, instead of
being pointed, it was now flat-topped. Other shells continued to strike it
with like effect, some breaking holes in the dome, others smashing off
the cupolas, all enveloping it in dust.

All this time the Dervishes were coming nearer, and the steady and
continuous advance of the great army compelled the Egyptian cavalry to
mount their horses and trot off to some safer point of view.
Colonel Broadwood conceived his direct line of retreat to camp threatened,
and shortly after one o'clock he began a regular retirement.
Eight squadrons of Egyptian cavalry and the Horse Artillery moved
off first. Five companies of the Camel Corps, a Maxim gun section, and the
ninth squadron of cavalry followed as a rear-guard under Major Tudway.
The Dervish horsemen contented themselves with firing occasional shots,
which were replied to by the Camel Corps with volleys whenever the ground
was suited to dismounted action. From time to time one of the more daring
Arabs would gallop after the retreating squadrons, but a shot from a
carbine or a threatened advance always brought the adventurous horseman
to a halt. The retirement was continued without serious interference,
and the boggy ground of the Khor Shambat was recrossed in safety.

As soon as the Egyptian squadrons--a darker mass under the dark hills
to the westward--were seen to be in retirement, the 21st Lancers were
withdrawn slowly along the sandy ridge towards the rocks of Surgham--
the position whence we had first seen the Dervish army. The regiment
wheeled about and fell back by alternate wings, dropping two detached
troops to the rear and flanks to make the enemy's patrols keep their
distance. But when the Arab horsemen saw all the cavalry retiring they
became very bold, and numerous small groups of fives and sixes began to
draw nearer at a trot. Accordingly, whenever the ground was favourable,
the squadrons halted in turn for a few minutes to fire on them. In this
way perhaps half-a-dozen were killed or wounded. The others, however,
paid little attention to the bullets, and continued to pry curiously,
until at last it was thought necessary to send a troop to drive them away.
The score of Lancers galloped back towards the inquisitive patrols in the
most earnest fashion. The Dervishes, although more numerous, were
scattered about in small parties, and, being unable to collect,
they declined the combat. The great army, however, still advanced
majestically, pressing the cavalry back before it; and it was evident
that if the Khalifa's movement continued, in spite of it being nearly
one o'clock, there would be a collision between the main forces
before the night.

From the summit of the black hill of Surgham the scene was extraordinary.
The great army of Dervishes was dwarfed by the size of the landscape to
mere dark smears and smudges on the brown of the plain. Looking east,
another army was now visible--the British and Egyptian army. All six
brigades had passed the Kerreri Hills, and now stood drawn up
in a crescent, with their backs to the Nile. The transport and the houses
of the village of Egeiga filled the enclosed space. Neither force could see
the other, though but five miles divided them. The array of the enemy was,
without doubt, both longer and deeper. Yet there seemed a superior strength
in the solid battalions, whose lines were so straight that they might
have been drawn with a ruler.

The camp presented an animated appearance. The troops had piled arms
after the march, and had already built a slender hedge of thorn-bushes
around them. Now they were eating their dinners, and in high expectation
of a fight. The whole army had been ordered to stand to arms at two o'clock
in formation to resist the attack which it seemed the Dervishes were about
to deliver. But at a quarter to two the Dervish army halted. Their drill
was excellent, and they all stopped as by a single command. Then suddenly
their riflemen discharged their rifles in the air with a great roar--
a barbaric feu de joie. The smoke sprang up along the whole front of their
array, running from one end to the other. After this they lay down on the
ground, and it became certain that the matter would not be settled
that day. We remained in our position among the sandhills of the ridge
until the approach of darkness, and during the afternoon various petty
encounters took place between our patrols and those of the enemy, resulting
in a loss to them of about a dozen killed and wounded, and to us of one
corporal wounded and one horse killed. Then, as the light failed,
we returned to the river to water and encamp, passing into the zeriba
through the ranks of the British division, where officers and men,
looking out steadfastly over the fading plain, asked us whether the enemy
were coming--and, if so, when. And it was with confidence and satisfaction
that we replied, and they heard, 'Probably at daylight.'

When the gunboats had completed their bombardment, had sunk a Dervish
steamer, had silenced all the hostile batteries, and had sorely battered
the Mahdi's Tomb, they returned leisurely to the camp, and lay moored close
to the bank to lend the assistance of their guns in case of attack. As the
darkness became complete they threw their powerful searchlights over the
front of the zeriba and on to the distant hills. The wheeling beams of
dazzling light swept across the desolate, yet not deserted, plain.
The Dervish army lay for the night along the eastern slope of the Shambat
depression. All the 50,000 faithful warriors rested in their companies near
the flags of their Emirs. The Khalifa slept in rear of the centre of
his host, surrounded by his generals. Suddenly the whole scene was lit
by a pale glare. Abdullah and the chiefs sprang up. Everything around them
was bathed in an awful white illumination. Far away by the river there
gleamed a brilliant circle of light--the cold, pitiless eye of a demon.
The Khalifa put his hand on Osman Azrak's shoulder--Osman, who was to lead
the frontal attack at dawn--and whispered, 'What is this strange thing?'
'Sire,' replied Osman, 'they are looking at us.' Thereat a great fear
filled all their minds. The Khalifa had a small tent, which showed
conspicuously in the searchlight. He had it hurriedly pulled down. Some of
the Emirs covered their faces, lest the baleful rays should blind them.
All feared that some terrible projectile would follow in the path of
the light. And then suddenly it passed on--for the sapper who worked the
lens could see nothing at that distance but the brown plain--and swept
along the ranks of the sleeping army, rousing up the startled warriors,
as a wind sweeps over a field of standing corn.

The Anglo-Egyptian army had not formed a quadrilateral camp, as on
other nights, but had lain down to rest in the formation for attack they
had assumed in the afternoon. Every fifty yards behind the thorn-bushes
were double sentries. Every hundred yards a patrol with an officer was
to be met. Fifty yards in rear of this line lay the battalions, the men in
all their ranks, armed and accoutred, but sprawled into every conceivable
attitude which utter weariness could suggest or dictate. The enemy,
twice as strong as the Expeditionary Force, were within five miles.
They had advanced that day with confidence and determination. But it
seemed impossible to believe that they would attack by daylight across the
open ground. Two explanations of their advance and halt presented
themselves. Either they had offered battle in a position where they could
not themselves be attacked until four o'clock in the afternoon, and hoped
that the Sirdar's army, even though victorious, would have to fight a
rear-guard action in the darkness to the river; or they intended to make
a night attack. It was not likely that an experienced commander would
accept battle at so late an hour in the day. If the Dervishes were anxious
to attack, so much the worse for them. But the army would remain strictly
on the defensive--at any rate, until there was plenty of daylight.
The alternative remained--a night attack.

Here lay the great peril which threatened the expedition.
What was to be done with the troops during the hours of darkness? In the
daytime they recked little of their enemy. But at night, when 400 yards
was the extreme range at which their fire could be opened, it was a matter
of grave doubt whether the front could be kept and the attack repelled.
The consequences of the line being penetrated in the darkness were
appalling to think of. The sudden appearance of crowds of figures swarming
to the attack through the gloom; the wild outburst of musketry and
artillery all along the zeriba; the crowds still coming on in spite of the
bullets; the fire getting uncontrolled, and then a great bunching and
crumpling of some part of the front, and mad confusion, in which a
multitude of fierce swordsmen would surge through the gap, cutting and
slashing at every living thing; in which transport animals would stampede
and rush wildly in all directions, upsetting every formation and destroying
all attempts to restore order; in which regiments and brigades would shift
for themselves and fire savagely on all sides, slaying alike friend
and foe; and out of which only a few thousand, perhaps only a few hundred,
demoralised men would escape in barges and steamers to tell the tale
of ruin and defeat.

The picture--true or false--flamed before the eyes of all the leaders
that night; but, whatever their thoughts may have been, their tactics were
bold. Whatever advice was given, whatever opinions were expressed, the
responsibility was Sir Herbert Kitchener's. Upon his shoulders lay the
burden, and the decision that was taken must be attributed solely to him.
He might have formed the army into a solid mass of men and animals,
arranged the infantry four deep all round the perimeter, and dug as big a
ditch or built as high a zeriba as time allowed. He might have filled the
numerous houses with the infantry, making them join the buildings with
hasty entrenchments, and so enclose a little space in which to squeeze
cavalry, transport, and guns. Instead he formed his army in a long thin
curve, resting on the river and enclosing a wide area of ground, about
which baggage and animals were scattered in open order and luxurious
accommodation. His line was but two deep; and only two companies per
battalion and one Egyptian brigade (Collinson's) were in reserve. He thus
obtained the greatest possible development of fire, and waited, prepared
if necessary to stake everything on the arms of precision, but hoping
with fervour that he would not be compelled to gamble by night.

The night was, however, undisturbed; and the moonlit camp,
with its anxious generals, its weary soldiers, its fearful machinery of
destruction, all strewn along the bank of the great river, remained plunged
in silence, as if brooding over the chances of the morrow and the failures
of the past. And hardly four miles away another army--twice as numerous,
equally confident, equally brave--were waiting impatiently for the morning
and the final settlement of the long quarrel.




CHAPTER XV: THE BATTLE OF OMDURMAN



SEPTEMBER 2, 1898

The bugles all over the camp by the river began to sound at half-past four.
The cavalry trumpets and the drums and fifes of the British division joined
the chorus, and everyone awoke amid a confusion of merry or defiant notes.
Then it grew gradually lighter, and the cavalry mounted their horses,
the infantry stood to their arms, and the gunners went to their batteries;
while the sun, rising over the Nile, revealed the wide plain, the dark
rocky hills, and the waiting army. It was as if all the preliminaries were
settled, the ground cleared, and nothing remained but the final act and
'the rigour of the game.'

Even before it became light several squadrons of British and Egyptian
cavalry were pushed swiftly forward to gain contact with the enemy and
learn his intentions. The first of these, under Captain Baring, occupied
Surgham Hill, and waited in the gloom until the whereabouts of the
Dervishes should be disclosed by the dawn. It was a perilous undertaking,
for he might have found them unexpectedly near. As the sun rose, the 21st
Lancers trotted out of the zeriba and threw out a spray of officers'
patrols. As there had been no night attack, it was expected that the
Dervish army would have retired to their original position or entered
the town. It was hardly conceivable that they would advance across the open
ground to attack the zeriba by daylight. Indeed, it appeared more probable
that their hearts had failed them in the night, and that they had melted
away into the desert. But these anticipations were immediately dispelled
by the scene which was visible from the crest of the ridge.

It was a quarter to six. The light was dim, but growing stronger
every minute. There in the plain lay the enemy, their numbers unaltered,
their confidence and intentions apparently unshaken. Their front was now
nearly five miles long, and composed of great masses of men joined together
by thinner lines. Behind and near to the flanks were large reserves.
From the ridge they looked dark blurs and streaks, relieved and diversified
with an odd-looking shimmer of light from the spear-points. At about
ten minutes to six it was evident that the masses were in motion and
advancing swiftly. Their Emirs galloped about and before their ranks.
Scouts and patrols scattered themselves all over the front. Then they began
to cheer. They were still a mile away from the hill, and were concealed
from the Sirdar's army by the folds of the ground. The noise of the
shouting was heard, albeit faintly, by the troops down by the river.
But to those watching on the hill a tremendous roar came up in waves
of intense sound, like the tumult of the rising wind and sea
before a storm.

The British and Egyptian forces were arranged in line, with their
back to the river. The flanks were secured by the gunboats lying moored
in the stream. Before them was the rolling sandy plain, looking from the
slight elevation of the ridge smooth and flat as a table. To the right rose
the rocky hills of the Kerreri position, near which the Egyptian cavalry
were drawn up--a dark solid mass of men and horses. On the left the
21st Lancers, with a single squadron thrown out in advance, were halted
watching their patrols, who climbed about Surgham Hill, stretched forward
beyond it, or perched, as we did, on the ridge.

The ground sloped gently up from the river; so that it seemed
as if the landward ends of the Surgham and Kerreri ridges curved in towards
each other, enclosing what lay between. Beyond the long swell of sand which
formed the western wall of this spacious amphitheatre the black shapes of
the distant hills rose in misty confusion. The challengers were already
in the arena; their antagonists swiftly approached.

Although the Dervishes were steadily advancing, a belief that
their musketry was inferior encouraged a nearer view, and we trotted round
the south-west slopes of Surgham Hill until we reached the sandhills on the
enemy's side, among which the regiment had waited the day before.
Thence the whole array was visible in minute detail. It seemed that every
single man of all the thousands could be examined separately. The pace of
their march was fast and steady, and it was evident that it would not be
safe to wait long among the sandhills. Yet the wonder of the scene
exercised a dangerous fascination, and for a while we tarried.

The emblems of the more famous Emirs were easily distinguishable.
On the extreme left the chiefs and soldiers of the bright green flag
gathered under Ali-Wad-Helu; between this and the centre the large
dark green flag of Osman Sheikh-ed-Din rose above a dense mass of spearmen,
preceded by long lines of warriors armed presumably with rifles; over the
centre, commanded by Yakub, the sacred Black banner of the Khalifa floated
high and remarkable; while on the right a great square of Dervishes was
arrayed under an extraordinary number of white flags, amid which the red
ensign of Sherif was almost hidden. All the pride and might of the Dervish
Empire were massed on this last great day of its existence. Riflemen who
had helped to destroy Hicks, spearmen who had charged at Abu Klea,
Emirs who saw the sack of Gondar, Baggara fresh from raiding the Shillooks,
warriors who had besieged Khartoum--all marched, inspired by the memories
of former triumphs and embittered by the knowledge of late defeats,
to chastise the impudent and accursed invaders.

The advance continued. The Dervish left began to stretch out
across the plain towards Kerreri--as I thought, to turn our right flank.
Their centre, under the Black Flag, moved directly towards Surgham.
The right pursued a line of advance south of that hill. This mass of men
were the most striking of all. They could not have mustered fewer
than 6,000. Their array was perfect. They displayed a great number
of flags--perhaps 500--which looked at the distance white, though they
were really covered with texts from the Koran, and which by their
admirable alignment made this division of the Khalifa's army look like
the old representations of the Crusaders in the Bayeux tapestry.

The attack developed. The left, nearly 20,000 strong, toiled across
the plain and approached the Egyptian squadrons. The leading masses of
the centre deployed facing the zeriba and marched forthwith to the direct
assault. As the whole Dervish army continued to advance, the division
with the white flags, which had until now been echeloned in rear of
their right, moved up into the general line and began to climb the
southern slopes of Surgham Hill. Meanwhile yet another body of the enemy,
comparatively insignificant in numbers, who had been drawn up behind the
'White Flags,' were moving slowly towards the Nile, echeloned still further
behind their right, and not far from the suburbs of Omdurman. These men
had evidently been posted to prevent the Dervish army being cut off from
the city and to secure their line of retreat; and with them
the 21st Lancers were destined to have a much closer acquaintance
about two hours later.

The Dervish centre had come within range. But it was not
the British and Egyptian army that began the battle. If there was one arm
in which the Arabs were beyond all comparison inferior to their adversaries,
it was in guns. Yet it was with this arm that they opened their attack.
In the middle of the Dervish line now marching in frontal assault were
two puffs of smoke. About fifty yards short of the thorn fence two
red clouds of sand and dust sprang up, where the projectiles had struck.
It looked like a challenge. It was immediately answered. Great clouds
of smoke appeared all along the front of the British and Soudanese brigades.
One after another four batteries opened on the enemy at a range of about
3,000 yards. The sound of the cannonade rolled up to us on the ridge,
and was re-echoed by the hills. Above the heads of the moving masses
shells began to burst, dotting the air with smoke-balls and the ground
with bodies. But a nearer tragedy impended. The 'White Flags' were nearly
over the crest. In another minute they would become visible to the
batteries. Did they realise what would come to meet them? They were in
a dense mass, 2,800 yards from the 32nd Field Battery and the gunboats.
The ranges were known. It was a matter of machinery. The more distant
slaughter passed unnoticed, as the mind was fascinated by the approaching
horror. In a few seconds swift destruction would rush on these brave men.
They topped the crest and drew out into full view of the whole army.
Their white banners made them conspicuous above all. As they saw the camp
of their enemies, they discharged their rifles with a great roar of
musketry and quickened their pace. For a moment the white flags advanced
in regular order, and the whole division crossed the crest and were exposed.
Forthwith the gunboats, the 32nd British Field Battery, and other guns
from the zeriba opened on them. About twenty shells struck them
in the first minute. Some burst high in the air, others exactly in their
faces. Others, again, plunged into the sand and, exploding, dashed clouds
of red dust, splinters, and bullets amid their ranks. The white banners
toppled over in all directions. Yet they rose again immediately, as other
men pressed forward to die for the Mahdi's sacred cause and in the
defence of the successor of the True Prophet. It was a terrible sight,
for as yet they had not hurt us at all, and it seemed an unfair advantage
to strike thus cruelly when they could not reply. Under the influence
of the shells the mass of the 'White Flags' dissolved into thin lines of
spearmen and skirmishers, and came on in altered formation and diminished
numbers, but with unabated enthusiasm. And now, the whole attack being
thoroughly exposed, it became the duty of the cavalry to clear the front
as quickly as possible, and leave the further conduct of the debate
to the infantry and the Maxim guns. All the patrols trotted or cantered
back to their squadrons, and the regiment retired swiftly into the zeriba,
while the shells from the gunboats screamed overhead and the whole length
of the position began to burst into flame and smoke. Nor was it long
before the tremendous banging of the artillery was swollen
by the roar of musketry.

Taking advantage of the shelter of the river-bank, the cavalry dismounted;
we watered our horses, waited, and wondered what was happening. And every
moment the tumult grew louder and more intense, until even the flickering
stutter of the Maxims could scarcely be heard above the continuous din.
Eighty yards away, and perhaps twenty feet above us, the 32nd Field Battery
was in action. The nimble figures of the gunners darted about as they
busied themselves in their complicated process of destruction. The officers,
some standing on biscuit-boxes, peered through their glasses and studied
the effect. Of this I had one glimpse. Eight hundred yards away a ragged
line of men were coming on desperately, struggling forward in the face
of the pitiless fire--white banners tossing and collapsing; white figures
subsiding in dozens to the ground; little white puffs from their rifles,
larger white puffs spreading in a row all along their front from the
bursting shrapnel.

The infantry fired steadily and stolidly, without hurry or excitement,
for the enemy were far away and the officers careful. Besides, the soldiers
were interested in the work and took great pains. But presently the mere
physical act became tedious. The tiny figures seen over the slide of the
backsight seemed a little larger, but also fewer at each successive volley.
The rifles grew hot--so hot that they had to be changed for those of the
reserve companies. The Maxim guns exhausted all the water in their jackets,
and several had to be refreshed from the water-bottles of the Cameron
Highlanders before they could go on with their deadly work. The empty
cartridge-cases, tinkling to the ground, formed a small but growing heap
beside each man. And all the time out on the plain on the other side
bullets were shearing through flesh, smashing and splintering bone;
blood spouted from terrible wounds; valiant men were struggling on through
a hell of whistling metal, exploding shells, and spurting dust--suffering,
despairing, dying. Such was the first phase of the battle of Omdurman.

The Khalifa's plan of attack appears to have been complex and ingenious.
It was, however, based on an extraordinary miscalculation of the power of
modern weapons; with the exception of this cardinal error, it is not
necessary to criticise it. He first ordered about 15,000 men, drawn chiefly
from the army of Osman Sheikh-ed-Din and placed under the command of Osman
Azrak, to deliver a frontal attack. He himself waited with an equal force
near Surgham Hill to watch the result. If it succeeded, he would move
forward with his bodyguard, the flower of the Arab army, and complete the
victory. If it failed, there was yet another chance. The Dervishes who were
first launched against the zeriba, although very brave men, were not by any
means his best or most reliable troops. Their destruction might be a
heavy loss, but it would not end the struggle. While the attack was
proceeding, the valiant left, consisting of the rest of the army of Osman
Sheikh-ed-Din, might move unnoticed to the northern flank and curve round
on to the front of the zeriba held by the Egyptian brigade. Ali-Wad-Helu
was meanwhile to march to the Kerreri Hills, and remain out of range and,
if possible, out of sight among them. Should the frontal and flank attacks
be unhappily repulsed, the 'enemies of God,' exulting in their easy victory
over the faithful, would leave their strong place and march to the capture
and sack of the city. Then, while they were yet dispersed on the plain,
with no zeriba to protect them, the chosen warriors of the True Religion
would abandon all concealment, and hasten in their thousands to the utter
destruction of the accursed--the Khalifa with 15,000 falling upon them from
behind Surgham; Ali-Wad-Helu and all that remained of Osman's army
assailing them from Kerreri. Attacked at once from the north and south,
and encompassed on every side, the infidels would abandon hope and order,
and Kitchener might share the fate of Hicks and Gordon. Two circumstances,
which will appear as the account proceeds, prevented the accomplishment of
this plan. The second attack was not executed simultaneously by the two
divisions of the Dervish army; and even had it been, the power of the
musketry would have triumphed, and though the Expeditionary Force might
have sustained heavier losses the main result could not have been affected.
The last hopes of barbarism had passed with the shades of night.

Colonel Broadwood, with nine squadrons of cavalry, the Camel Corps,
and the Horse Artillery, had been ordered to check the Dervish left,
and prevent it enveloping the downstream flank of the zeriba, as this was
held by the Egyptian brigade, which it was not thought desirable to expose
to the full weight of an attack. With this object, as the Dervishes
approached, he had occupied the Kerreri ridge with the Horse battery and
the Camel Corps, holding his cavalry in reserve in rear of the centre.

The Kerreri ridge, to which reference has so frequently been made,
consists of two main features, which rise to the height of about 300 feet
above the plain, are each above a mile long, and run nearly east and west,
with a dip or trough about 1,000 yards wide between them. The eastern ends
of these main ridges are perhaps 1,000 yards from the river, and in this
intervening space there are several rocky under-features and knolls.
The Kerreri Hills, the spaces between them, and the smaller features
are covered with rough boulders and angular stones of volcanic origin,
which render the movements of horses and camels difficult and painful.

The cavalry horses and camels were in the dip between the two ridges;
and the dismounted men of the Camel Corps were deployed along the crest of
the most southerly of the ridges, with their right at the desert end.
Next in order to the Camel Corps, the centre of the ridge was occupied by
the dismounted cavalry. The Horse Artillery were on the left.
The remainder of the cavalry waited in the hollow behind the guns.

The tempestuous advance of Osman soon brought him into contact with
the mounted force. His real intentions are still a matter of conjecture.
Whether he had been ordered to attack the Egyptian brigade, or to drive
back the cavalry, or to disappear behind the Kerreri Hills in conformity
with Ali-Wad-Helu, is impossible to pronounce. His action was, however,
clear. He could not safely assail the Egyptians with a powerful cavalry
force threatening his left rear. He therefore continued his move across the
front of the zeriba. Keeping out of the range of infantry fire, bringing up
his right, and marching along due north, he fell upon Broadwood.
This officer, who had expected to have to deal with small bodies on the
Dervish flank, found himself suddenly exposed to the attack of nearly
15,000 men, many of whom were riflemen. The Sirdar, seeing the situation
from the zeriba, sent him an order to withdraw within the lines of
infantry. Colonel Broadwood, however, preferred to retire through
the Kerreri Hills to the northward, drawing Osman after him.
He replied to that effect.

The first position had soon to be abandoned. The Dervishes,
advancing in a north-easterly direction, attacked the Kerreri Hills
obliquely. They immediately enveloped the right flank of the mounted troops
holding them. It will be seen from the map that as soon as the Dervish
riflemen gained a point west and in prolongation of the trough between the
two ridges, they not only turned the right flank, but also threatened the
retreat of the defenders of the southerly ridge; for they were able to
sweep the trough from end to end with their fire. As soon as it became
certain that the southerly ridge could not be held any longer, Colonel
Broadwood retired the battery to the east end of the second or northern
ridge. This was scarcely accomplished when the dip was enfiladed, and the
cavalry and Camel Corps who followed lost about fifty men and many horses
and camels killed and wounded. The Camel Corps were the most unfortunate.
They were soon encumbered with wounded, and it was now painfully evident
that in rocky ground the Dervishes could go faster on their feet than the
soldiers on their camels. Pressing on impetuously at a pace of nearly seven
miles an hour, and unchecked by a heavy artillery fire from the zeriba
and a less effective fire from the Horse battery, which was only armed with
7-pounder Krupps of an obsolete pattern, the Arabs rapidly diminished the
distance between themselves and their enemies. In these circumstances
Colonel Broadwood decided to send the Camel Corps back to the zeriba under
cover of a gunboat, which, watchfully observing the progress of the fight,
was coming down stream to assist. The distance which divided the combatants
was scarcely 400 yards and decreasing every minute. The cavalry were
drawn up across the eastern or river end of the trough. The guns of the
Horse battery fired steadily from their new position on the northern ridge.
But the Camel Corps were still struggling in the broken ground, and it was
clear that their position was one of great peril. The Dervishes already
carpeted the rocks of the southern ridge with dull yellow swarms, and,
heedless of the shells which still assailed them in reverse from the zeriba,
continued to push their attack home. On the very instant that they saw the
Camel Corps make for the river they realised that those they had deemed
their prey were trying, like a hunted animal, to run to ground within the
lines of infantry. With that instinctive knowledge of war which is the
heritage of savage peoples, the whole attack swung to the right, changed
direction from north to east, and rushed down the trough and along the
southern ridge towards the Nile, with the plain intention of cutting off
the Camel Corps and driving them into the river.

The moment was critical. It appeared to the cavalry commander that
the Dervishes would actually succeed, and their success must involve the
total destruction of the Camel Corps. That could not, of course,
be tolerated. The whole nine squadrons of cavalry assumed a preparatory
formation. The British officers believed that a terrible charge impended.
They would meet in direct collision the swarms of men who were hurrying
down the trough. The diversion might enable the Camel Corps to escape.
But the ground was bad; the enemy's force was overwhelming; the Egyptian
troopers were prepared to obey--but that was all. There was no exalted
enthusiasm such as at these moments carries sterner breeds to victory.
Few would return. Nevertheless, the operation appeared inevitable.
The Camel Corps were already close to the river. But thousands of
Dervishes were running swiftly towards them at right angles to their line
of retreat, and it was certain that if the camelry attempted to cross
this new front of the enemy they would be annihilated. Their only hope
lay in maintaining themselves by their fire near the river-bank until help
could reach them, and, in order to delay and weaken the Dervish attack
the cavalry would have to make a desperate charge.

But at the critical moment the gunboat arrived on the scene and began
suddenly to blaze and flame from Maxim guns, quick-firing guns, and rifles.
The range was short; the effect tremendous. The terrible machine, floating
gracefully on the waters--a beautiful white devil--wreathed itself in smoke.
The river slopes of the Kerreri Hills, crowded with the advancing thousands,
sprang up into clouds of dust and splinters of rock. The charging Dervishes
sank down in tangled heaps. The masses in rear paused, irresolute. It was
too hot even for them. The approach of another gunboat completed their
discomfiture. The Camel Corps, hurrying along the shore, slipped past the
fatal point of interception, and saw safety and the zeriba before them.

Exasperated by their disappointment, the soldiers of Osman Sheikh-ed-Din
turned again upon the cavalry, and, forgetting in their anger the mobile
nature of their foe, pursued the elusive squadrons three long miles to the
north. The cavalry, intensely relieved by the escape of the Camel Corps,
played with their powerful antagonist, as the banderillo teases the bull.
Colonel Broadwood thus succeeded in luring this division of the Dervish
army far away from the field of battle, where they were sorely needed.
The rough ground, however, delayed the Horse battery. They lagged, as the
Camel Corps had done, and caused constant anxiety. At length two of their
guns stuck fast in a marshy spot, and as several men and horses were shot
in the attempt to extricate them Broadwood wisely ordered them to be
abandoned, and they were soon engulfed in the Dervish masses. Encouraged
by this capture, the horsemen of Osman's command daringly attacked the
retreating cavalry. But they were effectually checked by the charge
of a squadron under Major Mahon.

Both gunboats, having watched the Camel Corps safely into the zeriba,
now returned with the current and renewed their attack upon the Arabs.
Opening a heavy and accurate fire upon the river flank, they drove them
westward and away from the Nile. Through the gap thus opened Broadwood and
his squadrons trotted to rejoin the main body, picking up on the way
the two guns which had been abandoned.

While these things were passing on the northern flank, the frontal attack
was in progress. The debris of the 'White Flags' joined the centre, and the
whole 14,000 pressed forward against the zeriba, spreading out by degrees
and abandoning their dense formations, and gradually slowing down. At about
800 yards from the British division the advance ceased, and they could make
no headway. Opposite the Soudanese, who were armed only with the
Martini-Henry rifle, the assailants came within 300 yards; and one brave
old man, carrying a flag, fell at 150 paces from the shelter trench.
But the result was conclusive all along the line. The attack was shattered.
The leader, clad in his new jibba of many colours, rode on steadfastly
towards the inexorable firing line, until, pierced by several bullets,
he fell lifeless. Such was the end of that stubborn warrior of many
fights--wicked Osman Azrak, faithful unto death. The surviving Dervishes
lay down on the ground. Unable to advance, they were unwilling to retire;
and their riflemen, taking advantage of the folds of the plain, opened and
maintained an unequal combat. By eight o'clock it was evident that the
whole attack had failed. The loss of the enemy was more than 2,000 killed,
and perhaps as many wounded. To the infantry, who were busy with their
rifles, it had scarcely seemed a fight. Yet all along the front bullets had
whizzed over and into the ranks, and in every battalion there were
casualties. Captain Caldecott, of the Warwicks, was killed; the Camerons
had two officers, Captain Clarke and Lieutenant Nicholson, severely wounded;
the Grenadiers one, Captain Bagot. Colonel F. Rhodes, as he sat on his
horse near the Maxim battery of the 1st British Brigade, was shot through
the shoulder and carried from the field just as the attack reached
its climax. There were, besides these officers, about 150 casualties
among the soldiers.

The attack languished. The enemy's rifle fire continued, and as soon as
the heavy firing ceased it began to be annoying. The ground, although it
appeared flat and level to the eye, nevertheless contained depressions and
swellings which afforded good cover to the sharpshooters, and the solid
line behind the zeriba was an easy target. The artillery now began to
clear out these depressions by their shells, and in this work they
displayed a searching power very remarkable when their flat trajectory
is remembered. As the shells burst accurately above the Dervish skirmishers
and spearmen who were taking refuge in the folds of the plain, they rose by
hundreds and by fifties to fly. Instantly the hungry and attentive Maxims
and the watchful infantry opened on them, sweeping them all to the ground--
some in death, others in terror. Again the shells followed them to their
new concealment. Again they rose, fewer than before, and ran. Again the
Maxims and the rifles spluttered. Again they fell. And so on until the
front of the zeriba was clear of unwounded men for at least half a mile.
A few escaped. Some, notwithstanding the vices of which they have been
accused and the perils with which they were encompassed, gloriously
carried off their injured comrades.

After the attack had been broken, and while the front of the zeriba
was being cleared of the Dervish riflemen, the 21st Lancers were again
called upon to act. The Sirdar and his generals were all agreed on
one point. They must occupy Omdurman before the Dervish army could get
back there. They could fight as many Dervishes as cared to come in the
plain; among the houses it was different. As the Khalifa had anticipated,
the infidels, exulting in their victory, were eager, though for a different
reason, to seize the city. And this they were now in a position to do.
The Arabs were out in the desert. A great part of their army was even
as far away as Kerreri. The troops could move on interior lines. They were
bound to reach Omdurman first. The order was therefore given to march on
the city at once. But first the Surgham ridge must be reconnoitred, and the
ground between the zeriba and Omdurman cleared of the Dervishes--
with infantry if necessary, but with cavalry if possible,
because that would be quicker.

As the fusillade slackened, the Lancers stood to their horses.
Then General Gatacre, with Captain Brooke and the rest of his Staff,
came galloping along the rear of the line of infantry and guns, and shouted
for Colonel Martin. There was a brief conversation--an outstretched arm
pointing at the ridge--an order, and we were all scrambling into our
saddles and straightening the ranks in high expectation. We started at
a trot, two or three patrols galloping out in front, towards the high
ground, while the regiment followed in mass--a great square block of
ungainly brown figures and little horses, hung all over with water-bottles,
saddle-bags, picketing-gear, tins of bully-beef, all jolting and jangling
together; the polish of peace gone; soldiers without glitter; horsemen
without grace; but still a regiment of light cavalry in active operation
against the enemy.

The crest of the ridge was only half a mile away. It was found unoccupied.
The rocky mass of Surgham obstructed the view and concealed the great
reserve collected around the Black Flag. But southward, between us and
Omdurman, the whole plain was exposed. It was infested with small parties
of Dervishes, moving about, mounted and on foot, in tens and twenties.
Three miles away a broad stream of fugitives, of wounded, and of deserters
flowed from the Khalifa's army to the city. The mirages blurred and
distorted the picture, so that some of the routed Arabs walked in air
and some through water, and all were misty and unreal. But the sight was
sufficient to excite the fiercest instincts of cavalry. Only the scattered
parties in the plain appeared to prevent a glorious pursuit. The signalling
officer was set to heliograph back to the Sirdar that the ridge was
unoccupied and that several thousand Dervishes could be seen flying into
Omdurman. Pending the answer, we waited; and looking back northwards,
across the front of the zeriba, where the first attack had been stopped,
perceived a greyish-white smudge, perhaps a mile long. The glass disclosed
details--hundreds of tiny white figures heaped or scattered; dozens hopping,
crawling, staggering away; a few horses standing stolidly among the corpses;
a few unwounded men dragging off their comrades. The skirmishers among the
rocks of Surgham soon began to fire at the regiment, and we sheltered among
the mounds of sand, while a couple of troops replied with their carbines.
Then the heliograph in the zeriba began to talk in flashes of light that
opened and shut capriciously. The actual order is important. 'Advance,'
said the helio, 'and clear the left flank, and use every effort to prevent
the enemy re-entering Omdurman.' That was all, but it was sufficient.
In the distance the enemy could be seen re-entering Omdurman in hundreds.
There was no room for doubt. They must be stopped, and incidentally these
small parties in the plain might be brushed away. We remounted; the ground
looked smooth and unbroken; yet it was desirable to reconnoitre.
Two patrols were sent out. The small parties of Dervishes who were
scattered all over the plain and the slopes of the hill prevented anything
less than a squadron moving, except at their peril. The first patrol
struck out towards Omdurman, and began to push in between the scattered
Dervishes, who fired their rifles and showed great excitement. The other
patrol, under Lieutenant Grenfell, were sent to see what the ground looked
like from further along the ridge and on the lower slopes of Surgham.
The riflemen among the rocks turned their fire from the regiment to these
nearer objects. The five brown figures cantered over the rough ground,
presenting difficult targets, but under continual fire, and disappeared
round the spur. However, in two or three minutes they re-appeared,
the riflemen on the hill making a regular rattle of musketry, amid which
the Lancers galloped safely back, followed last of all by their officer.
He said that the plain looked as safe from the other side of the hill as
from where we were. At this moment the other patrol returned. They, too,
had had good fortune in their adventurous ride. Their information was exact.
They reported that in a shallow and apparently practicable khor about
three-quarters of a mile to the south-west, and between the regiment and
the fugitives, there was drawn up a formed body of Dervishes about 1,000
strong. Colonel Martin decided on this information to advance and attack
this force, which alone interposed between him and the Arab line of retreat.
Then we started.

But all this time the enemy had been busy. At the beginning of the battle
the Khalifa had posted a small force of 700 men on his extreme right,
to prevent his line of retreat to Omdurman being harassed. This detachment
was composed entirely of the Hadendoa tribesmen of Osman Digna's flag,
and was commanded by one of his subordinate Emirs, who selected a suitable
position in the shallow khor. As soon as the 21st Lancers left the zeriba
the Dervish scouts on the top of Surgham carried the news to the Khalifa.
It was said that the English cavalry were coming to cut him off from
Omdurman. Abdullah thereupon determined to strengthen his extreme right;
and he immediately ordered four regiments, each 500 strong, drawn from
the force around the Black Flag and under the Emir Ibrahim Khalil,
to reinforce the Hadendoa in the khor. While we were waiting for orders on
the ridge these men were hurrying southwards along the depression,
and concealed by a spur of Surgham Hill. The Lancer patrol reconnoitred the
khor, at the imminent risk of their lives, while it was only occupied by
the original 700 Hadendoa. Galloping back, they reported that it was held
by about 1,000 men. Before they reached the regiment this number was
increased to 2,700. This, however, we had no means of knowing. The Khalifa,
having despatched his reinforcement, rode on his donkey with a scanty
escort nearly half a mile from the Black Flag towards the khor, in order to
watch the event, and in consequence he was within 500 yards of the scene.

As the 21st Lancers left the ridge, the fire of the Arab riflemen
on the hill ceased. We advanced at a walk in mass for about 300 yards.
The scattered parties of Dervishes fell back and melted away, and only one
straggling line of men in dark blue waited motionless a quarter of a mile
to the left front. They were scarcely a hundred strong. The regiment formed
into line of squadron columns, and continued at a walk until within 300
yards of this small body of Dervishes. The firing behind the ridges had
stopped. There was complete silence, intensified by the recent tumult.
Far beyond the thin blue row of Dervishes the fugitives were visible
streaming into Omdurman. And should these few devoted men impede a regiment?
Yet it were wiser to examine their position from the other flank before
slipping a squadron at them. The heads of the squadrons wheeled slowly
to the left, and the Lancers, breaking into a trot, began to cross the
Dervish front in column of troops. Thereupon and with one accord the
blue-clad men dropped on their knees, and there burst out a loud, crackling
fire of musketry. It was hardly possible to miss such a target at such
a range. Horses and men fell at once. The only course was plain and welcome
to all. The Colonel, nearer than his regiment, already saw what lay behind
the skirmishers. He ordered, 'Right wheel into line' to be sounded.
The trumpet jerked out a shrill note, heard faintly above the trampling of
the horses and the noise of the rifles. On the instant all the sixteen
troops swung round and locked up into a long galloping line, and the
21st Lancers were committed to their first charge in war.

Two hundred and fifty yards away the dark-blue men were firing madly
in a thin film of light-blue smoke. Their bullets struck the hard gravel
into the air, and the troopers, to shield their faces from the stinging
dust, bowed their helmets forward, like the Cuirassiers at Waterloo.
The pace was fast and the distance short. Yet, before it was half covered,
the whole aspect of the affair changed. A deep crease in the ground--a dry
watercourse, a khor--appeared where all had seemed smooth, level plain;
and from it there sprang, with the suddenness of a pantomime effect
and a high-pitched yell, a dense white mass of men nearly as long as our
front and about twelve deep. A score of horsemen and a dozen bright flags
rose as if by magic from the earth. Eager warriors sprang forward
to anticipate the shock. The rest stood firm to meet it. The Lancers
acknowledged the apparition only by an increase of pace. Each man wanted
sufficient momentum to drive through such a solid line. The flank troops,
seeing that they overlapped, curved inwards like the horns of a moon.
But the whole event was a matter of seconds. The riflemen, firing bravely
to the last, were swept head over heels into the khor, and jumping down
with them, at full gallop and in the closest order, the British squadrons
struck the fierce brigade with one loud furious shout. The collision was
prodigious. Nearly thirty Lancers, men and horses, and at least two hundred
Arabs were overthrown. The shock was stunning to both sides, and for
perhaps ten wonderful seconds no man heeded his enemy. Terrified horses
wedged in the crowd, bruised and shaken men, sprawling in heaps, struggled,
dazed and stupid, to their feet, panted, and looked about them. Several
fallen Lancers had even time to re-mount. Meanwhile the impetus of the
cavalry carried them on. As a rider tears through a bullfinch, the officers
forced their way through the press; and as an iron rake might be drawn
through a heap of shingle, so the regiment followed. They shattered the
Dervish array, and, their pace reduced to a walk, scrambled out of the khor
on the further side, leaving a score of troopers behind them, and dragging
on with the charge more than a thousand Arabs. Then, and not till then, the
killing began; and thereafter each man saw the world along his lance,
under his guard, or through the back-sight of his pistol; and each had
his own strange tale to tell.

Stubborn and unshaken infantry hardly ever meet stubborn and unshaken
cavalry. Either the infantry run away and are cut down in flight, or they
keep their heads and destroy nearly all the horsemen by their musketry.
On this occasion two living walls had actually crashed together.
The Dervishes fought manfully. They tried to hamstring the horses,
They fired their rifles, pressing the muzzles into the very bodies of
their opponents. They cut reins and stirrup-leathers. They flung their
throwing-spears with great dexterity. They tried every device of cool,
determined men practised in war and familiar with cavalry; and, besides,
they swung sharp, heavy swords which bit deep. The hand-to-hand fighting
on the further side of the khor lasted for perhaps one minute. Then the
horses got into their stride again, the pace increased, and the Lancers
drew out from among their antagonists. Within two minutes of the collision
every living man was clear of the Dervish mass. All who had fallen were
cut at with swords till they stopped quivering, but no artistic mutilations
were attempted.

Two hundred yards away the regiment halted, rallied, faced about,
and in less than five minutes were re-formed and ready for a second charge.
The men were anxious to cut their way back through their enemies. We were
alone together--the cavalry regiment and the Dervish brigade. The ridge
hung like a curtain between us and the army. The general battle was
forgotten, as it was unseen. This was a private quarrel. The other might
have been a massacre; but here the fight was fair, for we too fought with
sword and spear. Indeed the advantage of ground and numbers lay with them.
All prepared to settle the debate at once and for ever. But some
realisation of the cost of our wild ride began to come to those who were
responsible. Riderless horses galloped across the plain. Men, clinging to
their saddles, lurched helplessly about, covered with blood from perhaps
a dozen wounds. Horses, streaming from tremendous gashes, limped and
staggered with their riders. In 120 seconds five officers, 65 men, and 119
horses out of fewer than 400 had been killed or wounded.

The Dervish line, broken by the charge, began to re-form at once.
They closed up, shook themselves together, and prepared with constancy and
courage for another shock. But on military considerations it was desirable
to turn them out of the khor first and thus deprive them of their vantage
ground. The regiment again drawn up, three squadrons in line and the fourth
in column, now wheeled to the right, and, galloping round the Dervish flank,
dismounted and opened a heavy fire with their magazine carbines. Under the
pressure of this fire the enemy changed front to meet the new attack,
so that both sides were formed at right angles to their original lines.
When the Dervish change of front was completed, they began to advance
against the dismounted men. But the fire was accurate, and there can be
little doubt that the moral effect of the charge had been very great,
and that these brave enemies were no longer unshaken. Be this as it may,
the fact remains that they retreated swiftly, though in good order,
towards the ridge of Surgham Hill, where the Khalifa's Black Flag still
waved, and the 21st Lancers remained in possession of the ground--
and of their dead.

Such is the true and literal account of the charge; but the reader
may care to consider a few incidents. Colonel Martin, busy with the
direction of his regiment, drew neither sword nor revolver, and rode
through the press unarmed and uninjured. Major Crole Wyndham had his horse
shot under him by a Dervish who pressed the muzzle of his rifle into its
hide before firing. From out of the middle of that savage crowd the
officer fought his way on foot and escaped in safety. Lieutenant Molyneux
fell in the khor into the midst of the enemy. In the confusion he
disentangled himself from his horse, drew his revolver, and jumped out
of the hollow before the Dervishes recoved from the impact of the charge.
Then they attacked him. He fired at the nearest, and at the moment of
firing was slashed across the right wrist by another. The pistol fell
from his nerveless hand, and, being wounded, dismounted, and disarmed,
he turned in the hopes of regaining, by following the line of the charge,
his squadron, which was just getting clear. Hard upon his track came
the enemy, eager to make an end. Beset on all sides, and thus hotly
pursued, the wounded officer perceived a single Lancer riding across his
path. He called on him for help. Whereupon the trooper, Private Byrne,
although already severely wounded by a bullet which had penetrated his
right arm, replied without a moment's hesitation and in a cheery voice,
'All right, sir!' and turning, rode at four Dervishes who were about to
kill his officer. His wound, which had partly paralysed his arm,
prevented him from grasping his sword, and at the first ineffectual
blow it fell from his hand, and he received another wound from a spear
in the chest. But his solitary charge had checked the pursuing Dervishes.
Lieutenant Molyneux regained his squadron alive, and the trooper, seeing
that his object was attained, galloped away, reeling in his saddle.
Arrived at his troop, his desperate condition was noticed and he was told
to fall out. But this he refused to do, urging that he was entitled to
remain on duty and have 'another go at them.' At length he was compelled
to leave the field, fainting from loss of blood.

Lieutenant Nesham had an even more extraordinary escape than Molyneux.
He had scrambled out of the khor when, as his horse was nearly stopping,
an Arab seized his bridle. He struck at the man with his sword, but did not
prevent him cutting his off-rein. The officer's bridle-hand, unexpectedly
released, flew out, and, as it did so, a swordsman at a single stroke
nearly severed it from his body. Then they cut at him from all sides.
One blow sheared through his helmet and grazed his head. Another inflicted
a deep wound in his right leg. A third, intercepted by his shoulder-chains,
paralysed his right arm. Two more, missing him narrowly, cut right through
the cantel of the saddle and into the horse's back. The wounded subaltern
--he was the youngest of all--reeled. A man on either side seized his legs
to pull him to the ground; but the long spurs stuck into the horse's flanks,
and the maddened animal, throwing up its head and springing forward,
broke away from the crowd of foes, and carried the rider--bleeding,
fainting, but still alive--to safety among the rallying squadrons.
Lieutenant Nesham's experience was that of the men who were killed,
only that he escaped to describe it.

The wounded were sent with a small escort towards the river and hospitals.
An officer was despatched with the news to the Sirdar, and on the instant
both cannonade and fusillade broke out again behind the ridge, and grew in
a crashing crescendo until the whole landscape seemed to vibrate with
the sound of explosions. The second phase of the battle had begun.

Even before the 21st Lancers had reconnoitred Surgham ridge, the Sirdar
had set his brigades in motion towards Omdurman. He was determined, even at
a very great risk, to occupy the city while it was empty and before the
army in the plain could return to defend it. The advantage might be
tremendous. Nevertheless the movement was premature. The Khalifa still
remained undefeated west of Surgham Hill; Ali-Wad-Helu lurked behind
Kerreri; Osman was rapidly re-forming. There were still at least 35,000 men
on the field. Nor, as the event proved, was it possible to enter Omdurman
until they had been beaten.

As soon as the infantry had replenished their ammunition, they wheeled to
the left in echelon of brigades, and began to march towards Surgham ridge.
The movements of a great force are slow. It was not desirable that the
British division, which led the echelon, should remain in the low ground
north of Surgham--where they were commanded, had no field of fire,
and could see nothing--and accordingly both these brigades moved forward
almost together to occupy the crest of the ridge. Thus two steps of the
ladder were run into one, and Maxwell's brigade, which followed Wauchope's,
was 600 yards further south than it would have been had the regular echelon
been observed. In the zeriba MacDonald had been next to Maxwell. But a very
significant change in the order was now made. General Hunter evidently
conceived the rear of the echelon threatened from the direction of Kerreri.
Had the earth swallowed all the thousands who had moved across the plain
towards the hills? At any rate, he would have his best brigade and his most
experienced general in the post of possible danger. He therefore ordered
Lewis's brigade to follow Maxwell, and left MacDonald last of all,
strengthening him with three batteries of artillery and eight Maxim guns.
Collinson marched with the transport. MacDonald moved out westward into the
desert to take his place in the echelon, and also to allow Lewis to pass
him as ordered. Lewis hurried on after Maxwell, and, taking his distance
from him, was thus also 600 yards further south than the regular echelon
admitted. The step which had been absorbed when both British brigades moved
off--advisedly--together, caused a double gap between MacDonald and the
rest of the army. And this distance was further increased by the fact that
while he was moving west, to assume his place in correct echelon, the other
five brigades were drawing off to the southward. Hence MacDonald's
isolation.

At 9.15 the whole army was marching south in echelon, with the rear brigade
at rather more than double distance. Collinson had already started with the
transport, but the field hospitals still remained in the deserted zeriba,
busily packing up. The medical staff had about 150 wounded on their hands.
The Sirdar's orders had been that these were to be placed on the hospital
barges, and that the field hospitals were to follow the transport. But the
moving of wounded men is a painful and delicate affair, and by a stupid and
grievous mistake the three regular hospital barges, duly prepared for the
reception of the wounded, had been towed across to the right bank. It was
necessary to use three ammunition barges, which, although in no way
arranged for the reception of wounded, were luckily at hand. Meanwhile time
was passing, and the doctors, who worked with devoted energy, became
suddenly aware that, with the exception of a few detachments from the
British division and three Egyptian companies, there were no troops within
half a mile, and none between them and the dark Kerreri Hills. The two
gunboats which could have guarded them from the river were down stream,
helping the cavalry; MacDonald with the rear brigade was out in the plain;
Collinson was hurrying along the bank with his transport. They were alone
and unprotected. The army and the river together formed a huge "V" pointing
south. The northern extremity--the gorge of the redan, as it were--
gaped open towards Kerreri; and from Kerreri there now began to come, like
the first warning drops before a storm of rain, small straggling parties
of Dervish cavalry. The interior of the "V" was soon actually invaded
by these predatory patrols, and one troop of perhaps a score of Baggara
horse watered their ponies within 300 yards of the unprotected hospitals.
Behind, in the distance, the banners of an army began to re-appear.
The situation was alarming. The wounded were bundled on to the barges,
although, since there was no steamer to tow them, they were scarcely any
safer when embarked. While some of the medical officers were thus busied,
Colonel Sloggett galloped off, and, running the gauntlet of the Baggara
horsemen, hurried to claim protection for the hospitals and their helpless
occupants. In the midst of this excitement and confusion the wounded from
the cavalry charge began to trickle in.

When the British division had moved out of the zeriba, a few skirmishers
among the crags of Surgham Hill alone suggested the presence of an enemy.
Each brigade, formed in four parallel columns of route, which closed in
until they were scarcely forty paces apart, and both at deploying interval
--the second brigade nearer the river, the first almost in line with it
and on its right--hurried on, eager to see what lay beyond the ridge.
All was quiet, except for a few 'sniping' shots from the top of Surgham.
But gradually as Maxwell's brigade--the third in the echelon--approached
the hill, these shots became more numerous, until the summit of the peak
was spotted with smoke-puffs. The British division moved on steadily, and,
leaving these bold skirmishers to the Soudanese, soon reached the crest of
the ridge. At once and for the first time the whole panorama of Omdurman--
the brown and battered dome of the Mahdi's Tomb, the multitude of mud
houses, the glittering fork of water which marked the confluence of the
rivers--burst on their vision. For a moment they stared entranced.
Then their attention was distracted; for trotting, galloping, or halting
and gazing stupidly about them, terrified and bewildered, a dozen riderless
troop-horses appeared over the further crest--for the ridge was flat-topped
--coming from the plain, as yet invisible, below. It was the first news of
the Lancers' charge. Details soon followed in the shape of the wounded,
who in twos and threes began to make their way between the battalions,
all covered with blood and many displaying most terrible injuries--
faces cut to rags, bowels protruding, fishhook spears still stuck in their
bodies--realistic pictures from the darker side of war. Thus absorbed,
the soldiers hardly noticed the growing musketry fire from the peak.
But suddenly the bang of a field-gun set all eyes looking backward.
A battery had unlimbered in the plain between the zeriba and the ridge,
and was beginning to shell the summit of the hill. The report of the guns
seemed to be the signal for the whole battle to reopen. From far away to
the right rear there came the sound of loud and continuous infantry firing,
and immediately Gatacre halted his division.

Almost before the British had topped the crest of the ridge, before the
battery had opened from the plain, while Colonel Sloggett was still
spurring across the dangerous ground between the river and the army,
the Sirdar knew that his enemy was again upon him. Looking back from the
slopes of Surgham, he saw that MacDonald, instead of continuing his march
in echelon, had halted and deployed. The veteran brigadier had seen the
Dervish formations on the ridge to the west of Surgham, realised that he
was about to be attacked, and, resolving to anticipate the enemy,
immediately brought his three batteries into action at 1,200 yards,
Five minutes later the whole of the Khalifa's reserve, 15,000 strong,
led by Yakub with the Black Flag, the bodyguard and 'all the glories' of
the Dervish Empire, surged into view from behind the hill and advanced on
the solitary brigade with the vigour of the first attack and thrice its
chances of success. Thereupon Sir Herbert Kitchener ordered Maxwell to
change front to the right and storm Surgham Hill. He sent Major Sandbach
to tell Lewis to conform and come into line on Maxwell's right.
He galloped himself to the British division--conveniently halted by General
Gatacre on the northern crest of the ridge--and ordered Lyttelton with the
2nd Brigade to form facing west on Maxwell's left south of Surgham,
and Wauchope with the 1st Brigade to hurry back to fill the wide gap
between Lewis and MacDonald. Last of all he sent an officer to Collinson
and the Camel Corps with orders that they should swing round to their right
rear and close the open part of the "V". By these movements the army,
instead of facing south in echelon, with its left on the river and its
right in the desert, was made to face west in line, with its left in the
desert and its right reaching back to the river. It had turned nearly
a complete somersault.

In obedience to these orders Lyttelton's brigade brought up their left
shoulders, deployed into line, and advanced west; Maxwell's Soudanese
scrambled up the Surgham rocks, and, in spite of a sharp fire, cleared the
peak with the bayonet and pressed on down the further side; Lewis began to
come into action on Maxwell's right; MacDonald, against whom the Khalifa's
attack was at first entirely directed, remained facing south-west, and was
soon shrouded in the smoke of his own musketry and artillery fire.
The three brigades which were now moving west and away from the Nile
attacked the right flank of the Dervishes assailing MacDonald, and,
compelling them to form front towards the river, undoubtedly took much of
the weight of the attack off the isolated brigade. There remained the gap
between Lewis and MacDonald. But Wauchope's brigade--still in four parallel
columns of route--had shouldered completely round to the north, and was now
doubling swiftly across the plain to fill the unguarded space. With the
exception of Wauchope's brigade and of Collinson's Egyptians, the whole
infantry and artillery force were at once furiously engaged.

The firing became again tremendous, and the sound was even louder than
during the attack on the zeriba. As each fresh battalion was brought into
line the tumult steadily increased. The three leading brigades continued to
advance westward in one long line looped up over Surgham Hill, and with the
right battalion held back in column. As the forces gradually drew nearer,
the possibility of the Dervishes penetrating the gap between Lewis and
MacDonald presented itself, and the flank battalion was wheeled into line
so as to protect the right flank. The aspect of the Dervish attack was at
this moment most formidable. Enormous masses of men were hurrying towards
the smoke-clouds that almost hid MacDonald. Other masses turned to meet the
attack which was developing on their right. Within the angle formed by the
three brigades facing west and MacDonald facing nearly south a great army
of not fewer than 15,000 men was enclosed, like a flock of sheep in a fold,
by the thin brown lines of the British and Egyptian brigades. As the 7th
Egyptians, the right battalion of Lewis's brigade and nearest the gap
between that unit and MacDonald, deployed to protect the flank, they became
unsteady, began to bunch and waver, and actually made several retrograde
movements. There was a moment of danger; but General Hunter, who was on the
spot, himself ordered the two reserve companies of the 15th Egyptians under
Major Hickman to march up behind them with fixed bayonets. Their morale was
thus restored and the peril averted. The advance of the three brigades
continued.

Yakub found himself utterly unable to withstand the attack from the river.
His own attack on MacDonald languished. The musketry was producing terrible
losses in his crowded ranks. The valiant Wad Bishara and many other less
famous Emirs fell dead. Gradually he began to give ground. It was evident
that the civilised troops were the stronger. But even before the attack was
repulsed, the Khalifa, who watched from a close position, must have known
that the day was lost; for when he launched Yakub at MacDonald, it was
clear that the only chance of success depended on Ali-Wad-Helu and Osman
Sheikh-ed-Din attacking at the same time from Kerreri. And with bitter rage
and mortification he perceived that, although the banners were now
gathering under the Kerreri Hills, Ali and Osman were too late, and the
attacks which should have been simultaneous would only be consecutive.
The effect of Broadwood's cavalry action upon the extreme right was now
becoming apparent.

Regrets and fury were alike futile. The three brigades advancing drove the
Khalifa's Dervishes back into the desert. Along a mile of front an intense
and destructive fire flared and crackled. The 32nd British Field Battery on
the extreme left was drawn by its hardy mules at full gallop into action.
The Maxim guns pulsated feverishly. Two were even dragged by the enterprise
of a subaltern to the very summit of Surgham, and from this elevated
position intervened with bloody effect. Thus the long line moved forward in
irresistible strength. In the centre, under the red Egyptian flag, careless
of the bullets which that conspicuous emblem drew, and which inflicted some
loss among those around him, rode the Sirdar, stern and sullen, equally
unmoved by fear or enthusiasm. A mile away to the rear the gunboats,
irritated that the fight was passing beyond their reach, steamed restlessly
up and down, like caged Polar bears seeking what they might devour. Before
that terrible line the Khalifa's division began to break up. The whole
ground was strewn with dead and wounded, among whose bodies the soldiers
picked their steps with the customary Soudan precautions. Surviving
thousands struggled away towards Omdurman and swelled the broad stream of
fugitives upon whose flank the 2lst Lancers already hung vengefully.
Yakub and the defenders of the Black Flag disdained to fly, and perished
where they stood, beneath the holy ensign, so that when their conquerors
reached the spot the dark folds of the banner waved only over the dead.

While all this was taking place--for events were moving at speed--
the 1st British Brigade were still doubling across the rear of Maxwell and
Lewis to fill the gap between the latter and MacDonald. As they had wheeled
round, the regiments gained on each other according to their proximity to
the pivot flank. The brigade assumed a formation which may be described as
an echelon of columns of route, with the Lincolns, who were actually the
pivot regiment, leading. By the time that the right of Lewis's brigade was
reached and the British had begun to deploy, it was evident that the
Khalifa's attack was broken and that his force was in full retreat. In the
near foreground the Arab dead lay thick. Crowds of fugitives were trooping
off in the distance. The Black Flag alone waved defiantly over the corpses
of its defenders. In the front of the brigade the fight was over. But those
who looked away to the right saw a different spectacle. What appeared to be
an entirely new army was coming down from the Kerreri Hills. While the
soldiers looked and wondered, fresh orders arrived. A mounted officer
galloped up. There was a report that terrible events were happening in the
dust and smoke to the northward. The spearmen had closed with MacDonald's
brigade; were crumpling his line from the flank; had already broken it.
Such were the rumours. The orders were more precise. The nearest regiment--
the Lincolnshire--was to hurry to MacDonald's threatened flank to meet the
attack. The rest of the brigade was to change front half right, and remain
in support. The Lincolnshires, breathless but elated, forthwith started off
again at the double. They began to traverse the rear of MacDonald's brigade,
dimly conscious of rapid movements by its battalions, and to the sound of
tremendous independent firing, which did not, however, prevent them from
hearing the venomous hiss of bullets.

Had the Khalifa's attack been simultaneous with that which was now
developed, the position of MacDonald's brigade must have been almost
hopeless. In the actual event it was one of extreme peril. The attack in
his front was weakening every minute, but the far more formidable attack
on his right rear grew stronger and nearer in inverse ratio. Both attacks
must be met. The moment was critical; the danger near. All depended on
MacDonald, and that officer, who by valour and conduct in war had won his
way from the rank of a private soldier to the command of a brigade,
and will doubtless obtain still higher employment, was equal
to the emergency.

To meet the Khalifa's attack he had arranged his force facing south-west,
with three battalions in line and the fourth held back in column of
companies in rear of the right flank--an inverted L-shaped formation.
As the attack from the south-west gradually weakened and the attack from
the north-west continually increased, he broke off his battalions and
batteries from the longer side of the L and transferred them to the shorter.
He timed these movements so accurately that each face of his brigade was
able to exactly sustain the attacks of the enemy. As soon as the Khalifa's
force began to waver he ordered the XIth Soudanese and a battery on his left
to move across the angle in which the brigade was formed, and deploy along
the shorter face to meet the impending onslaught of Ali-Wad-Helu. Perceiving
this, the IXth Soudanese, who were the regiment in column on the right of
the original front, wheeled to the right from column into line without
waiting for orders, so that two battalions faced towards the Khalifa and
two towards the fresh attack. By this time it was clear that the Khalifa
was practically repulsed, and MacDonald ordered the Xth Soudanese and
another battery to change front and prolong the line of the IXth and XIth.
He then moved the 2nd Egyptians diagonally to their right front, so as to
close the gap at the angle between their line and that of the three other
battalions. These difficult manoeuvres were carried out under a heavy fire,
which in twenty minutes caused over 120 casualties in the four battalions--
exclusive of the losses in the artillery batteries--and in the face of the
determined attacks of an enemy who outnumbered the troops by seven to one
and had only to close with them to be victorious. Amid the roar of the
firing and the dust, smoke, and confusion of the change of front,
the general found time to summon the officers of the IXth Soudanese
around him, rebuked them for having wheeled into line in anticipation
of his order, and requested them to drill more steadily in brigade.

The three Soudanese battalions were now confronted with the whole fury
of the Dervish attack from Kerreri. The bravery of the blacks was no less
conspicuous than the wildness of their musketry. They evinced an
extraordinary excitement--firing their rifles without any attempt to sight
or aim, and only anxious to pull the trigger, re-load, and pull it again.
In vain the British officers strove to calm their impulsive soldiers.
In vain they called upon them by name, or, taking their rifles from them,
adjusted the sights themselves. The independent firing was utterly beyond
control. Soon the ammunition began to be exhausted, and the soldiers
turned round clamouring for more cartridges, which their officers doled out
to them by twos and threes in the hopes of steadying them. It was useless.
They fired them all off and clamoured for more. Meanwhile, although
suffering fearfully from the close and accurate fire of the three artillery
batteries and eight Maxim guns, and to a less extent from the random firing
of the Soudanese, the Dervishes drew nearer in thousands, and it seemed
certain that there would be an actual collision. The valiant blacks
prepared themselves with delight to meet the shock, notwithstanding the
overwhelming numbers of the enemy. Scarcely three rounds per man remained
throughout the brigade. The batteries opened a rapid fire of case-shot.
Still the Dervishes advanced, and the survivors of their first wave of
assault were scarcely 100 yards away. Behind them both green flags
pressed forward over enormous masses of armed humanity, rolling on
as they now believed to victory.

At this moment the Lincoln Regiment began to come up. As soon as the
leading company cleared the right of MacDonald's brigade, they formed line,
and opened an independent fire obliquely across the front of the Soudanese.
Groups of Dervishes in twos and threes were then within 100 yards.
The great masses were within 300 yards. The independent firing lasted two
minutes, during which the whole regiment deployed. Its effect was to clear
away the leading groups of Arabs. The deployment having been accomplished
with the loss of a dozen men, including Colonel Sloggett, who fell shot
through the breast while attending to the wounded, section volleys were
ordered. With excellent discipline the independent firing was instantly
stopped, and the battalion began with machine-like regularity to carry out
the principles of modern musketry, for which their training had efficiently
prepared them and their rifles were admirably suited. They fired on an
average sixty rounds per man, and finally repulsed the attack.

The Dervishes were weak in cavalry, and had scarcely 2,000 horsemen on
the field. About 400 of these, mostly the personal retainers of the various
Emirs, were formed into an irregular regiment and attached to the flag of
Ali-Wad-Helu. Now when these horsemen perceived that there was no more hope
of victory, they arranged themselves in a solid mass and charged the left
of MacDonald's brigade. The distance was about 500 yards, and, wild as was
the firing of the Soudanese, it was evident that they could not possibly
succeed. Nevertheless, many carrying no weapon in their hands, and all
urging their horses to their utmost speed, they rode unflinchingly to
certain death. All were killed and fell as they entered the zone of fire--
three, twenty, fifty, two hundred, sixty, thirty, five and one out beyond
them all--a brown smear across the sandy plain. A few riderless horses
alone broke through the ranks of the infantry.

After the failure of the attack from Kerreri the whole Anglo-Egyptian
army advanced westward, in a line of bayonets and artillery nearly two
miles long, and drove the Dervishes before them into the desert, so that
they could by no means rally or reform. The Egyptian cavalry, who had
returned along the river, formed line on the right of the infantry in
readiness to pursue. At half-past eleven Sir H. Kitchener shut up his
glasses, and, remarking that he thought the enemy had been given 'a good
dusting,' gave the order for the brigades to resume their interrupted march
on Omdurman--a movement which was possible, now that the forces in the
plain were beaten. The brigadiers thereupon stopped the firing,
massed their commands in convenient formations, and turned again towards
the south and the city. The Lincolnshire Regiment remained detached
as a rearguard.

Meanwhile the great Dervish army, who had advanced at sunrise
in hope and courage, fled in utter rout, pursued by the Egyptian cavalry,
harried by the 21st Lancers, and leaving more than 9,000 warriors dead
and even greater numbers wounded behind them.

Thus ended the battle of Omdurman--the most signal triumph
ever gained by the arms of science over barbarians. Within the space of
five hours the strongest and best-armed savage army yet arrayed against a
modern European Power had been destroyed and dispersed, with hardly any
difficulty, comparatively small risk, and insignificant loss
to the victors.




CHAPTER XVI: THE FALL OF THE CITY



Now, when the Khalifa Abdullah saw that the last army that remained to him
was broken, that all his attacks had failed, and that thousands of his
bravest warriors were slain, he rode from the field of battle in haste,
and, regaining the city, proceeded like a brave and stubborn soldier to
make preparations for its defence, and, like a prudent man, to arrange for
his own flight should further resistance be impossible. He ordered his
great war-drum to be beaten and the ombya to be blown, and for the last
time those dismal notes boomed through the streets of Omdurman. They were
not heeded. The Arabs had had enough fighting. They recognised that all was
lost. Besides, to return to the city was difficult and dangerous.

The charge of the 21st Lancers had been costly, but it was not ineffective.
The consequent retirement of the Dervish brigade protecting the extreme
right exposed their line of retreat. The cavalry were resolved to take full
advantage of the position they had paid so much to gain, and while the
second attack was at its height we were already trotting over the plain
towards the long lines of fugitives who streamed across it. With the
experience of the past hour in our minds, and with the great numbers of
the enemy in our front, it seemed to many that a bloody day lay before us.
But we had not gone far when individual Dervishes began to walk towards the
advancing squadrons, throwing down their weapons, holding up their hands,
and imploring mercy.

As soon as it was apparent that the surrender of individuals was accepted,
the Dervishes began to come in and lay down their arms--at first by twos
and threes, then by dozens, and finally by scores. Meanwhile those who were
still intent on flight made a wide detour to avoid the cavalry,
and streamed past our front at a mile's distance in uninterrupted
succession. The disarming and escorting of the prisoners delayed our
advance, and many thousands of Dervishes escaped from the field. But the
position of the cavalry and the pressure they exerted shouldered the routed
army out into the desert, so that retiring they missed the city of Omdurman
altogether, and, disregarding the Khalifa's summons to defend it and the
orders of their Emirs; continued their flight to the south. To harry and
annoy the fugitives a few troops were dismounted with carbines, and a
constant fire was made on such as did not attempt to come in and surrender.
Yet the crowds continued to run the gauntlet, and at least 20,000 men made
good their escape. Many of these were still vicious, and replied to our
fire with bullets, fortunately at very long range. It would have been
madness for 300 Lancers to gallop in among such masses, and we had to
be content with the results of the carbine fire.

While all this had been going on, the advance of the army on Omdurman
was continuing. Nor was it long before we saw the imposing array of
infantry topping the sandhills near Surgham and flooding out into the
plain which lay between them and the city. High over the centre brigade
flew the Black Flag of the Khalifa, and underneath a smaller flash of red
marked the position of the Headquarters Staff. The black masses of men
continued to move slowly across the open ground while we fired at the
flying Arabs, and at twelve o'clock we saw them halt near the river about
three miles from the city. Orders now reached us to join them, and as the
sun was hot, the day dragged, all were tired and hungry, and the horses
needed water, we were not long in complying, and the remnants of the
Dervish army made good their retreat unmolested.

We marched back to the Nile. The whole force had halted to drink, to eat,
and to rest at Khor Shambat. The scene was striking. Imagine a six hundred
yards stretch of the Suez Canal. Both banks are crowded with brown- or
chocolate-clad figures. The northern side is completely covered with the
swarming infantry of the British division. Thousands of animals--the horses
of the cavalry, the artillery mules, the transport camels--fill the spaces
and the foreground. Multitudes of khaki-clad men are sitting in rows on the
slopes. Hundreds are standing by the brim or actually in the red muddy
water. All are drinking deeply. Two or three carcasses, lying in the
shallows, show that the soldiers are thirsty rather than particular.
On all sides water-bottles are being filled from the welcome Nile, which
has come into the desert to refresh the weary animals and men.

During the attack on MacDonald's brigade the Egyptian cavalry had
watched from their position on the southern slopes of the Kerreri Hills,
ready to intervene, if necessary, and support the infantry by a charge.
As soon as the Dervish onsets had ended and the whole mass had begun to
retreat, Broadwood's cavalry brigade formed in two lines, of four and of
five squadrons respectively, and advanced in pursuit--first west for two
miles, and then south-west for three miles more towards the Round-topped
Hill. Like the 21st Lancers, they were delayed by many Dervishes who threw
down their arms and surrendered, and whom it was necessary to escort to
the river. But as they drew nearer the mass of the routed army, it became
apparent that the spirit of the enemy was by no means broken. Stubborn men
fired continually as they lay wounded, refusing to ask for quarter--
doubting, perhaps, that it would be granted. Under every bush that gave
protection from the lances of the horsemen little groups collected to make
a desperate stand. Solitary spearmen awaited unflinching the charge of a
whole squadron. Men who had feigned death sprang up to fire an unexpected
shot. The cavalry began to suffer occasional casualties. In proportion as
they advanced the resistance of the enemy increased. The direct pursuit had
soon to be abandoned, but in the hope of intercepting some part of the
retreating mob Major Le Gallais, who commanded the three leading squadrons,
changed direction towards the river, and, galloping nearly parallel to
Khor Shambat, charged and cut into the tail of the enemy's disordered array.
The Arabs, however, stood their ground, and, firing their rifles wildly in
all directions, killed and wounded a good many horses and men, so that the
squadrons were content to bring up their right still more, and finally to
ride out of the hornet swarm, into which they had plunged, towards
Surgham Hill. The pursuit was then suspended, and the Egyptian cavalry
joined the rest of the army by the Nile.

It was not until four o'clock that the cavalry received orders to ride
round the outside of the city and harry such as should seek to escape.
The Egyptian squadrons and the 21st Lancers started forthwith, and,
keeping about a mile from the houses of the suburbs, proceeded to make the
circle of the town. The infantry had already entered it, as was evident
from a continual patter of shots and an occasional rattle of the Maxim guns.
The leading Soudanese brigade--Maxwell's--had moved from Khor Shambat at
2.30, formed in line of company columns and in the following order:-

                      ^ Direction of Advance ^
   XIVth       XIIth     Maxims     8th          32nd           XIIIth
 Soudanese   Soudanese           Egyptians   Field Battery   Soudanese


The Sirdar, attended by his whole Staff, with the Black Flag of the Khalifa
carried behind him and accompanied by the band of the XIth Soudanese, rode
in front of the XIVth battalion. The regiments were soon enveloped by the
numberless houses of the suburbs and divided by the twisting streets;
but the whole brigade pressed forward on a broad front. Behind followed the
rest of the army--battalion after battalion, brigade after brigade--
until all, swallowed up by the maze of mud houses, were filling the open
spaces and blocking and choking the streets and alleys with solid masses of
armed men, who marched or pushed their way up to the great wall.

For two miles the progress through the suburbs continued, and the General,
hurrying on with his Staff, soon found himself, with the band, the Maxims,
and the artillery, at the foot of the great wall. Several hundred Dervishes
had gathered for its defence; but the fact that no banquette had been made
on which they could stand to fire prevented their resistance from being
effective. A few ill-aimed shots were, however, fired, to which the Maxim
guns replied with vigour. In a quarter of an hour the wall was cleared.
The Sirdar then posted two guns of the 32nd Field Battery at its northern
angle, and then, accompanied by the remaining four guns and the XIVth
Soudanese, turned eastwards and rode along the foot of the wall towards
the river, seeking some means of entry into the inner city. The breach made
by the gunboats was found temporarily blocked by wooden doors, but the main
gate was open, and through this the General passed into the heart of
Omdurman. Within the wall the scenes were more terrible than in the suburbs.
The effects of the bombardment were evident on every side. Women and
children lay frightfully mangled in the roadway. At one place a whole
family had been crushed by a projectile. Dead Dervishes, already in the
fierce heat beginning to decompose, dotted the ground. The houses were
crammed with wounded. Hundreds of decaying carcasses of animals filled the
air with a sickening smell. Here, as without the wall, the anxious
inhabitants renewed their protestations of loyalty and welcome;
and interpreters, riding down the narrow alleys, proclaimed the merciful
conditions of the conquerors and called on the people to lay down
their arms. Great piles of surrendered weapons rose in the streets,
guarded by Soudanese soldiers. Many Arabs sought clemency; but there were
others who disdained it; and the whirring of the Maxims, the crashes of
the volleys, and a continual dropping fire attested that there was fighting
in all parts of the city into which the columns had penetrated.
All Dervishes who did not immediately surrender were shot or bayoneted,
and bullets whistled at random along or across the streets. But while women
crowded round his horse, while sullen men fired carefully from houses,
while beaten warriors cast their spears on the ground and others, still
resisting, were despatched in corners, the Sirdar rode steadily onward
through the confusion, the stench, and the danger, until he reached
the Mahdi's Tomb.

At the mosque two fanatics charged the Soudanese escort,
and each killed or badly wounded a soldier before he was shot.
The day was now far spent, and it was dusk when the prison was reached.
The General was the first to enter that foul and gloomy den. Charles
Neufeld and some thirty heavily shackled prisoners were released. Neufeld,
who was placed on a pony, seemed nearly mad with delight, and talked and
gesticulated with queer animation. 'Thirteen years,' he said to his rescuer,
'have I waited for this day.' From the prison, as it was now dark,
the Sirdar rode to the great square in front of the mosque, in which his
headquarters were established, and where both British brigades were already
bivouacking. The rest of the army settled down along the roadways through
the suburbs, and only Maxwell's brigade remained in the city to complete
the establishment of law and order--a business which was fortunately hidden
by the shades of night.

While the Sirdar with the infantry of the army was taking possession
of Omdurman, the British and Egyptian cavalry had moved round to the west
of the city. There for nearly two hours we waited, listening to the
dropping fusillade which could be heard within the great wall and wondering
what was happening. Large numbers of Dervishes and Arabs, who, laying aside
their jibbas, had ceased to be Dervishes, appeared among the houses at the
edge of the suburbs. Several hundreds of these, with two or three Emirs,
came out to make their submission; and we were presently so loaded with
spears and swords that it was impossible to carry them, and many
interesting trophies had to be destroyed. It was just getting dark when
suddenly Colonel Slatin galloped up. The Khalifa had fled! The Egyptian
cavalry were at once to pursue him. The 21st Lancers must await further
orders. Slatin appeared very much in earnest. He talked with animated
manner to Colonel Broadwood, questioned two of the surrendered Emirs
closely, and hurried off into the dusk, while the Egyptian squadrons,
mounting, also rode away at a trot.

It was not for some hours after he had left the field of battle
that Abdullah realised that his army had not obeyed his summons,
but were continuing their retreat, and that only a few hundred Dervishes
remained for the defence of the city. He seems, if we judge from the
accounts of his personal servant, an Abyssinian boy, to have faced the
disasters that had overtaken him with singular composure. He rested until
two o'clock, when he ate some food. Thereafter he repaired to the Tomb,
and in that ruined shrine, amid the wreckage of the shell-fire,
the defeated sovereign appealed to the spirit of Mohammed Ahmed to help him
in his sore distress. It was the last prayer ever offered over the Mahdi's
grave. The celestial counsels seem to have been in accord with the dictates
of common-sense, and at four o'clock the Khalifa, hearing that the Sirdar
was already entering the city, and that the English cavalry were on the
parade ground to the west, mounted a small donkey, and, accompanied by his
principal wife, a Greek nun as a hostage, and a few attendants, rode
leisurely off towards the south. Eight miles from Omdurman a score of swift
camels awaited him, and on these he soon reached the main body of his
routed army. Here he found many disheartened friends; but the fact that,
in this evil plight, he found any friends at all must be recorded in his
favour and in that of his subjects. When he arrived he had no escort--
was, indeed, unarmed. The fugitives had good reason to be savage.
Their leaders had led them only to their ruin. To cut the throat of this
one man who was the cause of all their sufferings was as easy as they would
have thought it innocent. Yet none assailed him. The tyrant, the oppressor,
the scourge of the Soudan, the hypocrite, the abominated Khalifa;
the embodiment, as he has been depicted to European eyes, of all the vices;
the object, as he was believed in England, of his people's bitter hatred,
found safety and welcome among his flying soldiers. The surviving Emirs
hurried to his side. Many had gone down on the fatal plain. Osman Azrak,
the valiant Bishara, Yakub, and scores whose strange names have not
obscured these pages, but who were, nevertheless, great men of war,
lay staring up at the stars. Yet those who remained never wavered in their
allegiance. Ali-Wad-Helu, whose leg had been shattered by a shell splinter,
was senseless with pain; but the Sheikh-ed-Din, the astute Osman Digna,
lbrahim Khalil, who withstood the charge of the 21st Lancers, and others
of less note rallied to the side of the appointed successor of Mohammed
Ahmed, and did not, even in this extremity, abandon his cause. And so all
hurried on through the gathering darkness, a confused and miserable
multitude--dejected warriors still preserving their trashy rifles,
and wounded men hobbling pitifully along; camels and donkeys laden with
household goods; women crying, panting, dragging little children; all in
thousands--nearly 30,000 altogether; with little food and less water to
sustain them; the desert before them, the gunboats on the Nile,
and behind the rumours of pursuit and a broad trail of dead and dying
to mark the path of flight.

Meanwhile the Egyptian cavalry had already started on their
fruitless errand. The squadrons were greatly reduced in numbers.
The men carried food to suffice till morning, the horses barely enough to
last till noon. To supplement this slender provision a steamer had been
ordered up the river to meet them the next day with fresh supplies.
The road by the Nile was choked with armed Dervishes, and to avoid these
dangerous fugitives the column struck inland and marched southward towards
some hills whose dark outline showed against the sky. The unknown ground
was difficult and swampy. At times the horses floundered to their girths
in wet sand; at others rocky khors obstructed the march; horses and camels
blundered and fell. The darkness complicated the confusion. At about ten
o'clock Colonel Broadwood decided to go no further till there was more
light. He therefore drew off the column towards the desert, and halted on
a comparatively dry spot. Some muddy pools, which were luckily discovered,
enabled the bottles to be filled and the horses to be watered. Then, having
posted many sentries, the exhausted pursuers slept, waking from time to
time to listen to the intermittent firing which was still audible,
both from the direction of Omdurman and from that in which
the Dervish army was flying.

At 3 A.M. on the 3rd Colonel Broadwood's force moved on again.
Men and horses seemed refreshed, and by the aid of a bright moon
the ground was covered at a good pace. By seven o'clock the squadrons
approached the point on the river which had been fixed for meeting the
steamer. She had already arrived, and the sight of the funnel in the
distance and the anticipation of a good meal cheered everyone, for they had
scarcely had anything to eat since the night before the battle. But as the
troopers drew nearer it became evident that 300 yards of shallow water and
deep swamp intervened between them and the vessel. Closer approach was
prevented. There was no means of landing the stores. In the hopes of
finding a suitable spot further up the stream the march was resumed.
The steamer kept pace along the river. The boggy ground delayed the columns,
but by two o'clock seven more miles had been covered. Only the flag at the
masthead was now visible; and an impassable morass separated the force from
the river bank. It was impossible to obtain supplies. Without food it was
out of the question to go on. Indeed, great privations must, as it was,
accompany the return march. The necessity was emphasised by the reports
of captured fugitives, who all told the same tale. The Khalifa had
pushed on swiftly, and was trying to reorganise his army. Colonel Broadwood
thereupon rested his horses till the heat of the day was over, and then
began the homeward march. It was not until eleven o'clock on the 4th of
September that the worn-out and famished cavalry reached their camp
near Omdurman.

Such was the pursuit as conducted by the regular troops. Abdel-Azim,
with 750 Arabs, persisted still further in the chase. Lightly equipped,
and acquainted with the country, they reached Shegeig, nearly a hundred
miles south of Khartoum, on the 7th. Here they obtained definite
information. The Khalifa had two days' start, plenty of food and water,
and many camels. He had organised a bodyguard of 500 Jehadia, and was,
besides, surrounded by a large force of Arabs of various tribes.
With this numerous and powerful following he was travelling day and night
towards El Obeid, which town was held by an unbeaten Dervish garrison of
nearly 3,000 men. On hearing these things the friendly Arabs determined
--not unwisely--to abandon the pursuit, and came boastfully back
to Omdurman.

In the battle and capture of Omdurman the losses of the Expeditionary
Force included the following British officers killed: Capt. G. Caldecott,
1st Royal Warwickshire Regiment; Lieut. R.G. Grenfell, 12th Royal Lancers,
attached 21st Lancers; Hon. H. Howard, correspondent of the TIMES.
In total, the British Division and Egyptian Army suffered 482 men killed
or wounded.

The Dervish losses were, from computations made on the field and corrected
at a later date, ascertained to be 9,700 killed, and wounded variously
estimated at from 10,000 to 16,000. There were, besides, 5,000 prisoners.




CHAPTER XVII: 'THE FASHODA INCIDENT'



The long succession of events, of which I have attempted
to give some account, has not hitherto affected to any great extent other
countries than those which are drained by the Nile. But this chapter
demands a wider view, since it must describe an incident which might easily
have convulsed Europe, and from which far-reaching consequences have arisen.
It is unlikely that the world will ever learn the details of the subtle
scheme of which the Marchand Mission was a famous part. We may say with
certainty that the French Government did not intend a small expedition,
at great peril to itself, to seize and hold an obscure swamp on the Upper
Nile. But it is not possible to define the other arrangements. What part
the Abyssinians were expected to play, what services had been rendered them
and what inducements they were offered, what attitude was to be adopted to
the Khalifa, what use was to be made of the local tribes: all this is
veiled in the mystery of intrigue. It is well known that for several years
France, at some cost to herself and at a greater cost to Italy, had courted
the friendship of Abyssinia, and that the weapons by which the Italians
were defeated at Adowa had been mainly supplied through French channels.
A small quick-firing gun of continental manufacture and of recent make
which was found in the possession of the Khalifa seems to point to
the existence or contemplation of similar relations with the Dervishes.
But how far these operations were designed to assist the Marchand Mission
is known only to those who initiated them, and to a few others who have so
far kept their own counsel.

The undisputed facts are few. Towards the end of 1896 a French expedition
was despatched from the Atlantic into the heart of Africa under the command
of Major Marchand. The re-occupation of Dongola was then practically
complete, and the British Government were earnestly considering the
desirability of a further advance. In the beginning of 1897 a British
expedition, under Colonel Macdonald, and comprising a dozen carefully
selected officers, set out from England to Uganda, landed at Mombassa,
and struck inland. The misfortunes which fell upon this enterprise are
beyond the scope of this account, and I shall not dwell upon the local
jealousies and disputes which marred it. It is sufficient to observe that
Colonel Macdonald was provided with Soudanese troops who were practically
in a state of mutiny and actually mutinied two days after he assumed
command. The officers were compelled to fight for their lives.
Several were killed. A year was consumed in suppressing the mutiny and the
revolt which arose out of it. If the object of the expedition was to reach
the Upper Nile, it was soon obviously unattainable, and the Government were
glad to employ the officers in making geographical surveys.

At the beginning of 1898 it was clear to those who, with the fullest
information, directed the foreign policy of Great Britain that no results
affecting the situation in the Soudan could be expected from the Macdonald
Expedition. The advance to Khartoum and the reconquest of the lost
provinces had been irrevocably undertaken. An Anglo-Egyptian force was
already concentrating at Berber. Lastly, the Marchand Mission was known
to be moving towards the Upper Nile, and it was a probable contingency
that it would arrive at its destination within a few months. It was
therefore evident that the line of advance of the powerful army moving
south from the Mediterranean and of the tiny expedition moving east from
the Atlantic must intersect before the end of the year, and that
intersection would involve a collision between the Powers of Great Britain
and France.

I do not pretend to any special information not hitherto given to
the public in this further matter, but the reader may consider for himself
whether the conciliatory policy which Lord Salisbury pursued towards Russia
in China at this time--a policy which excited hostile criticism in England
--was designed to influence the impending conflict on the Upper Nile and
make it certain, or at least likely, that when Great Britain and France
should be placed in direct opposition, France should find herself alone.

With these introductory reflections we may return to the theatre of
the war.

On the 7th of September, five days after the battle and capture
of Omdurman, the Tewfikia, a small Dervish steamer--one of those formerly
used by General Gordon--came drifting and paddling down the river.
Her Arab crew soon perceived by the Egyptian flags which were hoisted on
the principal buildings, and by the battered condition of the Mahdi's Tomb,
that all was not well in the city; and then, drifting a little further,
they found themselves surrounded by the white gunboats of the 'Turks,'
and so incontinently surrendered. The story they told their captors was a
strange one. They had left Omdurman a month earlier, in company with the
steamer Safia, carrying a force of 500 men, with the Khalifa's orders to
go up the White Nile and collect grain. For some time all had been well;
but on approaching the old Government station of Fashoda they had been
fired on by black troops commanded by white officers under a strange flag
--and fired on with such effect that they had lost some forty men killed
and wounded. Doubting who these formidable enemies might be, the foraging
expedition had turned back, and the Emir in command, having disembarked
and formed a camp at a place on the east bank called Reng, had sent the
Tewfikia back to ask the Khalifa for instructions and reinforcements.
The story was carried to the Sirdar and ran like wildfire through the camp.
Many officers made their way to the river, where the steamer lay, to test
for themselves the truth of the report. The woodwork of the hull was marked
with many newly made holes, and cutting into these with their penknives the
officers extracted bullets--not the roughly cast leaden balls, the bits of
telegraph wire, or old iron which savages use, but the conical
nickel-covered bullets of small-bore rifles such as are fired by civilised
forces alone. Here was positive proof. A European Power was on the Upper
Nile: which? Some said it was the Belgians from the Congo; some that an
Italian expedition had arrived; others thought that the strangers were
French; others, again, believed in the Foreign Office--it was a British
expedition, after all. The Arab crew were cross-examined as to the flag
they had seen. Their replies were inconclusive. It had bright colours,
they declared; but what those colours were and what their arrangement
might be they could not tell; they were poor men, and God was very great.

Curiosity found no comfort but in patience or speculation.
The camp for the most part received the news with a shrug. After their
easy victory the soldiers walked delicately. They knew that they belonged
to the most powerful force that had ever penetrated the heart of Africa.
If there was to be more war, the Government had but to give the word,
and the Grand Army of the Nile would do by these newcomers as they had
done by the Dervishes.

On the 8th the Sirdar started up the White Nile for Fashoda with
five steamers, the XIth and XIIIth Battalions of Soudanese, two companies
of the Cameron Highlanders, Peake's battery of artillery, and four Maxim
guns. Three days later he arrived at Reng, and there found, as the crew
of the Tewfikia had declared, some 500 Dervishes encamped on the bank,
and the Safia steamer moored to it. These stupid fellows had the temerity
to open fire on the vessels. Whereat the Sultan, steaming towards their dem,
replied with a fierce shell fire which soon put them to flight. The Safia,
being under steam, made some attempt to escape--whither, it is impossible
to say--and Commander Keppel by a well-directed shell in her boilers
blew her up, much to the disgust of the Sirdar, who wanted to add her
to his flotilla.

After this incident the expedition continued its progress up the White Nile.
The sudd which was met with two days' journey south of Khartoum did not in
this part of the Nile offer any obstacle to navigation, as the strong
current of the river clears the waterway; but on either side of the channel
a belt of the tangled weed, varying from twelve to twelve hundred yards in
breadth, very often prevented the steamers from approaching the bank to
tie up. The banks themselves depressed the explorers by their melancholy
inhospitality. At times the river flowed past miles of long grey grass and
swamp-land, inhabited and habitable only by hippopotami. At times a vast
expanse of dreary mud flats stretched as far as the eye could see.
At others the forest, dense with an impenetrable undergrowth of
thorn-bushes, approached the water, and the active forms of monkeys
and even of leopards darted among the trees. But the country
--whether forest, mud-flat, or prairie--was always damp and feverish:
a wet land steaming under a burning sun and humming with mosquitoes
and all kinds of insect life.

Onward and southward toiled the flotilla, splashing the brown water
into foam and startling the strange creatures on the banks, until on the
18th of September they approached Fashoda. The gunboats waited, moored to
the bank for some hours of the afternoon, to allow a message which had
been sent by the Sirdar to the mysterious Europeans, to precede his arrival,
and early in the morning of the 19th a small steel rowing-boat was observed
coming down stream to meet the expedition. It contained a Senegalese
sergeant and two men, with a letter from Major Marchand announcing the
arrival of the French troops and their formal occupation of the Soudan.
It, moreover, congratulated the Sirdar on his victory, and welcomed him
to Fashoda in the name of France.

A few miles' further progress brought the gunboats to their destination,
and they made fast to the bank near the old Government buildings of the
town. Major Marchand's party consisted of eight French officers or
non-commissioned officers, and 120 black soldiers drawn from the Niger
district. They possessed three steel boats fitted for sail or oars, and a
small steam launch, the Faidherbe, which latter had, however, been sent
south for reinforcements. They had six months' supplies of provisions for
the French officers, and about three months' rations for the men; but they
had no artillery, and were in great want of small-arm ammunition.
Their position was indeed precarious. The little force was stranded,
without communications of any sort, and with no means of either
withstanding an attack or of making a retreat. They had fired away most of
their cartridges at the Dervish foraging party, and were daily expecting
a renewed attack. Indeed, it was with consternation that they had heard of
the approach of the flotilla. The natives had carried the news swiftly up
the river that the Dervishes were coming back with five steamers, and for
three nights the French had been sleeplessly awaiting the assault of
a powerful enemy.

Their joy and relief at the arrival of a European force were undisguised.
The Sirdar and his officers on their part were thrilled with admiration at
the wonderful achievements of this small band of heroic men. Two years had
passed since they left the Atlantic coast. For four months they had been
absolutely lost from human ken. They had fought with savages; they had
struggled with fever; they had climbed mountains and pierced the most
gloomy forests. Five days and five nights they had stood up to their necks
in swamp and water. A fifth of their number had perished; yet at last
they had carried out their mission and, arriving at Fashoda on the 10th
of July, had planted the tricolour upon the Upper Nile.

Moved by such reflections the British officers disembarked.
Major Marchand, with a guard of honour, came to meet the General.
They shook hands warmly. 'I congratulate you,' said the Sirdar, 'on all you
have accomplished.' 'No,' replied the Frenchman, pointing to his troops;
'it is not I, but these soldiers who have done it.' And Kitchener, telling
the story afterwards, remarked, 'Then I knew he was a gentleman.'

Into the diplomatic discussions that followed, it is not necessary
to plunge. The Sirdar politely ignored the French flag, and, without
interfering with the Marchand Expedition and the fort it occupied,
hoisted the British and Egyptian colours with all due ceremony,
amid musical honours and the salutes of the gunboats. A garrison was
established at Fashoda, consisting of the XIth Soudanese, four guns of
Peake's battery, and two Maxims, the whole under the command of Colonel
Jackson, who was appointed military and civil commandant of the
Fashoda district.

At three o'clock on the same afternoon the Sirdar and the gunboats resumed
their journey to the south, and the next day reached the mouth of the Sobat,
sixty-two miles from Fashoda. Here other flags were hoisted and another
post formed with a garrison of half the XIIIth Soudanese battalion and the
remaining two guns of Peake's battery. The expedition then turned
northwards, leaving two gunboats--the Sultan and the Abu Klea--at the
disposal of Colonel Jackson.

I do not attempt to describe the international negotiations and
discussions that followed the receipt of the news in Europe, but it is
pleasing to remember that a great crisis found England united.
The determination of the Government was approved by the loyalty of the
Opposition, supported by the calm resolve of the people, and armed with
the efficiency of the fleet. At first indeed, while the Sirdar was still
steaming southward, wonder and suspense filled all minds; but when suspense
ended in the certainty that eight French adventurers were in occupation of
Fashoda and claimed a territory twice as large as France, it gave place to
a deep and bitter anger. There is no Power in Europe which the average
Englishman regards with less animosity than France. Nevertheless, on this
matter all were agreed. They should go. They should evacuate Fashoda,
or else all the might, majesty, dominion, and power of everything that
could by any stretch of the imagination be called 'British' should be
employed to make them go.

Those who find it difficult to account for the hot, almost petulant,
flush of resolve that stirred the nation must look back over the long
history of the Soudan drama. It had always been a duty to reconquer the
abandoned territory. When it was found that this might be safely done,
the duty became a pleasure. The operations were watched with extravagant
attention, and while they progressed the earnestness of the nation
increased. As the tides of barbarism were gradually driven back, the old
sea-marks came one after another into view. Names of towns that were half
forgotten--or remembered only with sadness--re-appeared on the posters,
in the gazettes, and in the newspapers. We were going back. 'Dongola,'
'Berber,' 'Metemma'--who had not heard of them before? Now they were
associated with triumph. Considerable armies fought on the Indian Frontier.
There was war in the South and the East and the West of Africa. But England
looked steadfastly towards the Nile and the expedition that crawled forward
slowly, steadily, unchecked, apparently irresistible.

When the final triumph, long expected, came in all its completeness
it was hailed with a shout of exultation, and the people of Great Britain,
moved far beyond their wont, sat themselves down to give thanks to
their God, their Government, and their General. Suddenly, on the chorus of
their rejoicing there broke a discordant note. They were confronted with
the fact that a 'friendly Power' had, unprovoked, endeavoured to rob them
of the fruits of their victories. They now realised that while they had
been devoting themselves to great military operations, in broad daylight
and the eye of the world, and prosecuting an enterprise on which they had
set their hearts, other operations--covert and deceitful--had been in
progress in the heart of the Dark Continent, designed solely for the
mischievous and spiteful object of depriving them of the produce of their
labours. And they firmly set their faces against such behaviour.

First of all, Great Britain was determined to have Fashoda or fight;
and as soon as this was made clear, the French were willing to give way.
Fashoda was a miserable swamp, of no particular value to them. Marchand,
Lord Salisbury's 'explorer in difficulties upon the Upper Nile,'
was admitted by the French Minister to be merely an 'emissary of
civilisation.' It was not worth their while to embark on the hazards and
convulsions of a mighty war for either swamp or emissary. Besides, the plot
had failed. Guy Fawkes, true to his oath and his orders, had indeed reached
the vault; but the other conspirators were less devoted. The Abyssinians
had held aloof. The negro tribes gazed with wonder on the strangers,
but had no intention of fighting for them. The pride and barbarism of the
Khalifa rejected all overtures and disdained to discriminate between the
various breeds of the accursed 'Turks.' Finally, the victory of Omdurman
and its forerunner--the Desert Railway--had revolutionised the whole
situation in the Nile valley. After some weeks of tension, the French
Government consented to withdraw their expedition from the region
of the Upper Nile.

Meanwhile events were passing at Fashoda. The town, the site of which
had been carefully selected by the old Egyptian Government, is situated on
the left bank of the river, on a gentle slope of ground which rises about
four feet above the level of the Nile at full flood. During the rainy
season, which lasts from the end of June until the end of October,
the surrounding country is one vast swamp, and Fashoda itself becomes
an island. It is not, however, without its importance; for it is the only
spot on the west shore for very many miles where landing from the river is
possible. All the roads--mere camel-tracks--from Lower Kordofan meet at the
Government post, but are only passable in the dry season. The soil is
fertile, and, since there is a superabundance of sun and water, almost any
crop or plant can be grown. The French officers, with the adaptive thrift
of their nation, had already, in spite of the ravages of the water-rats,
created a good vegetable garden, from which they were able to supplement
their monotonous fare. The natives, however--aboriginal negroes of the
Dinka and Shillook tribes--are unwilling to work, except to provide
themselves with the necessaries of life; and since these are easily
obtained, there is very little cultivation, and the fertility of the soil
may be said to increase the poverty of the country. At all seasons of the
year the climate of Fashoda is pestilential, and the malarial fever attacks
every European or Egyptian, breaking down the strongest constitutions,
and in many cases causing death. [The place is most unhealthy, and in March
1899 (the driest season of the year) out of a garrison of 317 men only 37
were fit for duty.--Sir William Garstin's Report: EGYPT, No. 5, 1899.]

On this dismal island, far from civilisation, health, or comfort,
the Marchand Mission and the Egyptian garrison lived in polite antagonism
for nearly three months. The French fort stood at the northern end.
The Egyptian camp lay outside the ruins of the town. Civilities were
constantly exchanged between the forces, and the British officers repaid
the welcome gifts of fresh vegetables by newspapers and other conveniences.
The Senegalese riflemen were smart and well-conducted soldiers,
and the blacks of the Soudanese battalion soon imitated their officers in
reciprocating courtesies. A feeling of mutual respect sprang up between
Colonel Jackson and Major Marchand. The dashing commandant of the XIth
Soudanese, whose Egyptian medals bear no fewer than fourteen clasps,
was filled with a generous admiration for the French explorer. Realising
the difficulties, he appreciated the magnificence of the achievement;
and as he spoke excellent French a good and almost cordial understanding
was established, and no serious disagreement occurred. But, notwithstanding
the polite relations, the greatest vigilance was exercised by both sides,
and whatever civilities were exchanged were of a formal nature.

The Dinkas and Shillooks had on the first arrival of the French
made submission, and had supplied them with provisions. They knew that
white men were said to be coming, and they did not realise that there were
different races among the whites. Marchand was regarded as the advance
guard of the Sirdar's army. But when the negroes gradually perceived that
these bands of white men were at enmity with each other--were, in fact,
of rival tribes--they immediately transferred their allegiance to the
stronger force, and, although their dread of the Egyptian flag was at first
very marked, boycotted the French entirely.

In the middle of October despatches from France arrived for Marchand
by steamer; and that officer, after reading them, determined to proceed to
Cairo. Jackson, who was most anxious that no disagreement should arise,
begged him to give positive orders to his subordinate to maintain the
status quo, as had been agreed. Marchand gladly consented, and departed for
Omdurman, where he visited the battlefield, and found in the heaps of slain
a grim witness of the destruction from which he had been saved, and so on
to Cairo, where he was moved to tears and speeches. But in his absence
Captain Germain, who succeeded to the command, diverged from his orders,
No sooner had Marchand left than Germain, anxious to win distinction,
embarked upon a most aggressive policy. He occupied the Dinka country
on the right bank of the river, pushed reconnoitring parties into the
interior, prevented the Dinka Sheikhs from coming to make their submission
at Fashoda, and sent his boats and the Faidherbe steam launch, which had
returned from the south, beyond the northern limits which the Sirdar
had prescribed and Marchand had agreed to recognise.

Colonel Jackson protested again and again. Germain sent haughty replies,
and persisted in his provoking policy. At last the British officer was
compelled to declare that if any more patrols were sent into the Dinka
country, he would not allow them to return to the French post. Whereat
Germain rejoined that he would meet force with force. All tempers were worn
by fever, heat, discomfort, and monotony. The situation became very
difficult, and the tact and patience of Colonel Jackson alone averted a
conflict which would have resounded in all parts of the world. He confined
his troops strictly to their lines, and moved as far from the French camp
as was possible. But there was one dark day when the French officers worked
in their shirts with their faithful Senegalese to strengthen the
entrenchments, and busily prepared for a desperate struggle. On the other
side little activity was noticeable. The Egyptian garrison, although under
arms, kept out of sight, but a wisp of steam above the funnels of the
redoubtable gunboats showed that all was ready.

At length in a fortunate hour Marchand returned, reproved his subordinate,
and expressed his regrets to Colonel Jackson. Then it became known that the
French Government had ordered the evacuation of Fashoda. Some weeks were
spent in making preparations for the journey, but at length the day of
departure arrived. At 8.20 on the morning of the 11th of December the
French lowered their flag with salute and flourish of bugle. The British
officers, who remained in their own camp and did not obtrude themselves,
were distant but interested spectators. On the flag ceasing to fly,
a sous-officier rushed up to the flagstaff and hurled it to the ground,
shaking his fists and tearing his hair in a bitterness and vexation from
which it is impossible to withhold sympathy, in view of what these men had
suffered uselessly and what they had done. The French then embarked,
and at 9.30 steamed southward, the Faidherbe towing one oblong steel barge
and one old steel boat, the other three boats sailing, all full of men.
As the little flotilla passed the Egyptian camp a guard of honour of the
XIth Soudanese saluted them and the band struck up their national anthem.
The French acknowledged the compliment by dipping their flag, and in return
the British and Egyptian flags were also lowered. The boats then continued
their journey until they had rounded the bend of the river, when they came
to land, and, honour being duly satisfied, Marchand and his officers
returned to breakfast with Colonel Jackson. The meeting was very friendly.
Jackson and Germain exchanged most elaborate compliments, and the
commandant, in the name of the XIth Soudanese, presented the expedition
with the banner of the Emir who had attacked them, which had been captured
at Reng. Marchand shook hands all round, and the British officers bade
their gallant opponents a final farewell.

Once again the eight Frenchmen, who had come so far and accomplished
so much, set out upon their travels, to make a safe though tedious journey
through Abyssinia to the coast, and thence home to the country they had
served faithfully and well, and which was not unmindful of their services.

Let us settle the international aspect of the reconquest of the Soudan
while we are in the way with it. The disputes between France and England
about the valley of the Upper Nile were terminated, as far as material
cause was concerned, by an Agreement, signed in London on the 21st of March,
1899, by Lord Salisbury and M. Cambon. The Declaration limiting the
respective spheres of influence of the two Powers took the form of an
addition to the IVth Article of the Niger Convention, concluded in the
previous year. Its practical effect is to reserve the whole drainage system
of the Nile to England and Egypt, and to engage that France shall have a
free hand, so far as those Powers are concerned, in the rest of Northern
Africa west of the Nile Valley not yet occupied by Europeans.
This stupendous partition of half a continent by two European Powers could
scarcely be expected to excite the enthusiasm of the rest. Germany was,
however, soothed by the promise of the observance of the 'Open Door' policy
upon the Upper Nile. Italy, protesting meekly, followed Germany. Russia had
no interests in this quarter. France and England were agreed. The rest were
not consulted: and the Declaration may thus be said to have been recognised
by the world in general.

It is perhaps early to attempt to pronounce with which of the contracting
Powers the advantage lies. France has acquired at a single stroke, without
any serious military operations, the recognition of rights which may enable
her ultimately to annex a vast African territory. At present what she has
gained may be described as a recognised 'sphere of aspiration.' The future
may convert this into a sphere of influence, and the distant future may
witness the entire subjugation of the whole region. There are many
difficulties to be overcome. The powerful influence of the Senussi has yet
to be overthrown. The independent kingdom of Wadai must be conquered.
Many smaller potentates will resist desperately. Altogether France has
enough to occupy her in Central Africa for some time to come: and even
when the long task is finished, the conquered regions are not likely to be
of great value. They include the desert of the Great Sahara and wide
expanses of equally profitless scrub or marsh. Only one important river,
the Shari, flows through them, and never reaches the sea: and even Lake
Chad, into which the Shari flows, appears to be leaking through some
subterranean exit, and is rapidly changing from a lake into an
immense swamp.

Great Britain and Egypt, upon the other hand, have secured a territory
which, though smaller, is nevertheless of enormous extent, more fertile,
comparatively easy of access, practically conquered, and containing the
waterway of the Nile. France will be able to paint a great deal of the map
of Africa blue, and the aspect of the continent upon paper may please the
patriotic eye; but it is already possible to predict that before she can
develop her property--can convert aspiration into influence, and influence
into occupation--she will have to work harder, pay more, and wait longer
for a return than will the more modest owners of the Nile Valley. And even
when that return is obtained, it is unlikely that it will be
of so much value.

It only remains to discuss the settlement made between the conquerors
of the Soudan. Great Britain and Egypt had moved hand in hand up the great
river, sharing, though unequally, the cost of the war in men and money.
The prize belonged to both. The direct annexation of the Soudan by Great
Britain would have been an injustice to Egypt. Moreover, the claim of the
conquerors to Fashoda and other territories rested solely on the former
rights of Egypt. On the other hand, if the Soudan became Egyptian again,
it must wear the fetters of that imprisoned country. The Capitulations
would apply to the Upper Nile regions, as to the Delta. Mixed Tribunals,
Ottoman Suzerainty, and other vexatious burdens would be added to the
difficulties of Soudan administration. To free the new country from the
curse of internationalism was a paramount object. The Soudan Agreement
by Great Britain and Egypt, published on the 7th of March, 1899,
achieves this. Like most of the best work done in Egypt by the British
Agency, the Agreement was slipped through without attracting much notice.
Under its authority a State has been created in the Nile Valley which is
neither British nor Ottoman, nor anything else so far known to the law
of Europe. International jurists are confronted with an entirely new
political status. A diplomatic 'Fourth Dimension' has been discovered.
Great Britain and Egypt rule the country together. The allied conquerors
have become the joint-possessors. 'What does this Soudan Agreement mean?'
the Austrian Consul-General asked Lord Cromer; and the British Agent,
whom twenty-two years' acquaintance with Egyptian affairs bad accustomed
to anomalies, replied, 'It means simply this'; and handed him the
inexplicable document, under which the conquered country may some day
march to Peace and Plenty.




CHAPTER XVIII: ON THE BLUE NILE



The authority of the Khalifa and the strength of his army were
for ever broken on the 2nd of September, and the battle of Omdurman is the
natural climax of this tale of war. To those who fought, and still more to
those who fell, in the subsequent actions the climax came somewhat later.
After the victory the public interest was no longer centred in the Soudan.
The last British battalion had been carried north of Assuan; the last Press
correspondent had hurried back to Cairo or London. But the military
operations were by no means over.

The enemy had been defeated. It remained to reconquer the territory.
The Dervishes of the provincial garrisons still preserved their allegiance
to the Khalifa. Several strong Arab forces kept the field. Distant Kordofan
and even more distant Darfur were as yet quite unaffected by the great
battle at the confluence of the Niles. There were rumours of Europeans
in the Far South.

The unquestioned command of the waterways which the Sirdar enjoyed
enabled the greater part of the Egyptian Soudan to be at once formally
re-occupied. All towns or stations on the main rivers and their tributaries
were at the mercy of the gunboats. It was only necessary to send troops to
occupy them and to hoist the British and Egyptian flags. Two expeditions
were forthwith sent up the White and Blue Niles to establish garrisons,
and as far as possible to subdue the country. The first, under the personal
command of the Sirdar, left Omdurman on the 8th of September, and steamed
up the White Nile towards Fashoda. The events which followed that momentous
journey have already been related. The second expedition consisted of the
gunboats Sheikh and Hafir, together with two companies and the brass band
of the Xth Soudanese and a Maxim battery, all under the command of General
Hunter. Leaving Omdurman on the 19th of September, they started up the
Blue Nile to Abu Haraz. The rest of the Xth Battalion followed as soon as
other steamers were set free from the business of taking the British
division to the Atbara and bringing supplies to Omdurman. The progress of
the expedition up the river resembled a triumphal procession. The people
of the riparian villages assembled on the banks, and, partly from
satisfaction at being relieved from the oppression of the Khalifa and the
scourge of war, partly from fear, and partly from wonder, gave vent to loud
and long-continued cheers. As the gunboats advanced the inhabitants
escorted them along the bank, the men dancing and waving their swords,
and the women uttering shrill cries of welcome. The reception of the
expedition when places of importance were passed, and the crowd amounted to
several thousands, is described as very stirring, and, we are told,
such was the enthusiasm of the natives that they even broke up their
houses to supply the gunboats with wood for fuel. Whether this be true
or not I cannot tell, but it is in any case certain that the vessels were
duly supplied, and that the expedition in its progress was well received
by the negroid tribes, who had long resented the tyranny of the Arabs.

On the 22nd of September a considerable part of the army of Osman Digna,
which had not been present at the battle of Omdurman, was found encamped on
the Ghezira, a few miles north of Rufaa. The Sheikhs and Emirs, on being
summoned by General Hunter, surrendered, and a force of about 2,000 men
laid down their arms. Musa Digna, a nephew of Osman and the commander of
his forces, was put in irons and held prisoner. The rest, who were mostly
from the Suakin district, were given a safe-conduct, and told to return
to their homes--an order they lost no time in obeying.

The next day the general arrived at Wad Medina, where the Dervish
garrison--1,000 strong--had already surrendered to the gunboat Sheikh.
These men, who were regular Dervishes, were transported in sailing-boats
to Omdurman; and augmented the number of prisoners of war already
collected. On the 29th of September General Hunter reached Rosaires,
400 miles south of Khartoum, and the extreme limit of steam navigation on
the Blue Nile. By the 3rd of October he had established garrisons of the
Xth Soudanese in Rosaires, at Karkoj, at Sennar (the old seat of the
Government of the province), and at Wad Medina. Having also arranged for
gunboat patrolling, he returned to Omdurman.

But there was one Dervisb force which had no intention of surrendering
to the invaders, and whose dispersal was not accomplished until three
fierce and critical actions had been fought. Ahmed Fedil, a zealous and
devoted adherent of the Khalifa, had been sent, after the defeat on the
Atbara, to collect all the Dervishes who could be spared from the Gedaref
and Gallabat provinces, and bring them to join the growing army at Omdurman.
The Emir had faithfully discharged his duty, and he was hurrying to his
master's assistance with a strong and well disciplined force of no fewer
than 8,000 men when, while yet sixty miles from the city, he received the
news of 'the stricken field.' He immediately halted, and sought to hide the
disaster from his soldiers by announcing that the Khalifa had been
victorious and no longer needed their assistance. He even explained the
appearance of gunboats upon the river by saying that these had run past the
batteries at Omdurman and that the others were destroyed. The truth was not,
however, long concealed; for a few days later two emissaries despatched by
Slatin arrived at the Dervish camp and announced the destruction of the
Omdurman army, the flight of the Khalifa, and the fall of the city.
The messengers were authorised to offer Ahmed terms; but that implacable
Dervish flew into a rage, and, having shot one, sent the other,
covered with insults and stripes, to tell the 'Turks' that he would fight
to the bitter end. He then struck his camp, and marched back along the east
bank of the Blue Nile, with the intention of crossing the river near its
confluence with the Rahad, and so joining the Khalifa in Kordofan.
His Dervishes, however, did not view this project with satisfaction.
Their families and women had been left with large stores of grain and
ammunition in Gedaref, under a strong garrison of 3,000 men. They urged
their commander to return and collect these possessions. Ahmed at first
refused, but when on arriving at the place of passage he found himself
confronted with a gunboat, he resolved to make a virtue of necessity
and set out leisurely for Gedaref.

On the 5th of September Colonel Parsons, in command of the forces
at Kassala, heard through the Italian Governor of Eritrea of the victory
at Omdurman. The next day official news arrived from England, and in
conformity with previous instructions he set out on the 7th for Gedaref.
It was known that Ahmed Fedil had marched towards Omdurman. It was believed
that Gedaref was only weakly held, and the opportunity of cutting the most
powerful remaining Dervish army from its base was too precious to be
neglected. But the venture was desperate. The whole available strength of
the Kassala garrison was mustered. With these 1,350 motley soldiers,
untried, little disciplined, worn with waiting and wasted by disease,
without cavalry, artillery, or machine guns, and with only seven British
officers, including the doctor, Gedaref was taken, and, having been taken,
was held.

After two long marches Colonel Parsons and his force arrived at El Fasher,
on the right bank of the Atbara. Their advance, which had hitherto led them
through a waterless desert, was now checked by a raging torrent. The river
was in full flood, and a channel of deep water, broader than the Thames
below London Bridge and racing along at seven miles an hour, formed a
serious obstacle. Since there were no boats the soldiers began forthwith
to construct rafts from barrels that had been brought for the purpose.
As soon as the first of these was completed, it was sent on a trial trip.
The result was not encouraging. The raft supported ten men, occupied five
hours in the passage, was carried ten miles down stream, and came back for
its second journey on the afternoon of the next day. It was evident that
this means of transport was out of the question. The only chance of
success--indeed, of safety--lay in the force reaching and taking Gedaref
before the return of Ahmed Fedil. All depended upon speed; yet here was a
hopeless delay. After prolonged discussion it was resolved to act on the
suggestion of an Egyptian officer and endeavour to build boats. The work
proved easier than was anticipated. The elastic wood of the mimosa scrub
supplied the frames; some tarpaulins--fortunately available--formed the
outer covering. The Egyptian soldiers, who delighted in the work,
succeeded in making daily from such materials one boat capable of carrying
two tons; and in these ingenious contrivances the whole force crossed to
the further bank. The camels, mules, and horses of the transport--
their heads supported with inflated water-skins tied under their jowls--
were made to swim across the river by the local Shukrieh Arabs. Such was
the skill of these tribesmen that only one camel and one mule were drowned
during the operation. The passage was completed on the 16th, and the next
day the advance was resumed along the west bank of the Atbara. At midday
on the 18th Mugatta was reached, and at dawn on the 20th the little force
--having filled their water-skins, tightened their belts, and invoked the
assistance of the various gods they worshipped--started off, and marched
all day in single file through the thick bush which lies between the Atbara
and Gedaref. The column retired to rest peacefully during the night of the
21st, although within twelve miles of Gedaref. But at midnight startling
news arrived. A deserter from the Dervishes made his way into the camp and
informed Colonel Parsons that the Emir Saadalla awaited him with 3,500 men
two miles before the town. The situation was grave. A retreat through the
broken country and thick bush in the face of a powerful and triumphant
enemy seemed impossible. There was no alternative but to attack.

Very early on the morning of the 22nd--the same day on which General Hunter
on the Blue Nile was compelling Musa Digna and his followers to surrender--
Colonel Parsons and the Kassala column set forth to march into Gedaref and
to fight whatever force it might contain. For the first two hours the road
lay through doura plantations and high grass which rose above the heads
even of men mounted on camels; but as the town was approached, the doura
ceased, and the troops emerged from the jungle on to an undulating moorland
with occasional patches of rushes and withered grass. At half-past seven,
and about three miles from Gedaref, the enemy's scouts were encountered.
A few shots were fired. The soldiers pressed their march, and at eight
o'clock had reached a small knoll, from the top of which an extensive view
was obtainable. The column halted, and Colonel Parsons and his officers
ascended the eminence to reconnoitre.

A most menacing spectacle confronted them. Scarcely a mile away
a strong force of Dervishes was rapidly advancing to meet the invaders.
Four lines of white figures rising out of the grass showed by their length
the number, and by their regularity the discipline, of the enemy.
The officers computed the strength of their antagonists at not fewer than
4,000. Subsequent investigation has shown that the Emir Saadalla marched
out of Gedaref with 1,700 riflemen, 1,600 spearmen, and 300 horse.

The swiftness of the Dervish advance and the short space that intervened
between the forces made it evident that a collision would take place within
half an hour. The valley was rocky, and overgrown with grass and reeds;
but to the right of the track there rose a high saddleback hill,
the surface of which looked more open, and which appeared to command
the approaches from Gedaref. The troops knew nothing of the country;
the Dervishes understood it thoroughly. The high ground gave at least
advantage of view. Colonel Parsons resolved to occupy it.
Time was however, very scanty.

The order was given, and the column began to double across the valley
towards the saddleback. The Dervishes, perceiving the nature of the
movement, hurried their advance in the hope of catching the troops on the
move and perhaps of even seizing the hill itself. But they were too late.
Colonel Parsons and his force reached the saddleback safely, and with a few
minutes to spare climbed up and advanced along it in column in the
direction of Gedaref--the Arab battalion leading, the 16th Egyptians next,
and last of all the irregulars.

The Dervishes, seeing that the troops had already reached the hill
and were moving along it towards the town, swung to their left and advanced
to the attack. Thereupon at half-past eight the column wheeled into line
to meet them, and standing in the long grass, which even on the summit of
the hill was nearly breast-high, opened a heavy and destructive fire.
The enemy, although suffering severe loss, continued to struggle bravely
onward, replying vigorously to the musketry of the soldiers. At nine
o'clock, while the frontal attack was still undecided, Colonel Parsons
became aware that a strong force of Dervishes had moved round the left rear
and were about to attack the hospital and transport. He at once sent to
warn Captain Fleming, R.A.M.C., who combined the duties of medical officer
and commander of the baggage column, of the impending assault, and directed
him to close up the camels and meet it. The Arab Sheikhs, who in the
absence of officers were acting as orderlies, had scarcely brought the news
to Fleming, when the Dervish attack developed. The enemy, some 300 strong,
rushed with great determination upon the baggage, and the escort of 120
Arab irregulars at once broke and fled. The situation became desperate;
but Ruthven with thirty-four Supply Department camel-men hastened to meet
the exultant enemy and protect the baggage column, and the transport was
stubbornly defended. In spite of all their efforts the rear of the baggage
column was broken and cut up. The survivors escaped along the saddleback.
The British officers, with their small following, fell back towards their
main body, hotly pressed by the enemy.

At this moment Captain Ruthven observed one of his native officers,
lying wounded on the ground, about to fall into the hands of the Dervishes
and perish miserably. He immediately went back and, being a man of great
physical strength, carried the body off in his arms. The enemy were,
however, so close that he was three times compelled to set his burden down
and defend himself with his revolver. Meanwhile the retirement towards
the main body continued and accelerated.

Colonel Parsons and his force were now between two fires.
The frontal attack was within 200 yards. The rear attack, flushed with
success, were hurrying impetuously forward. The defeat and consequent total
destruction of the Kassala column appeared certain. But in the nick of time
the Dervish frontal attack, which had been suffering heavily from the fire
of the troops, wavered; and when the Arab battalion and the 16th Egyptians
advanced upon them to complete their discomfiture, they broke and fled.
Colonel Parsons at once endeavoured to meet the rear attack. The Arab
battalion, whose valour was more admirable than their discipline,
continued to pursue the beaten enemy down the hill; but the 16th Egyptians,
on being called upon by their commanding officer, Captain McKerrell,
faced steadily about and turned to encounter the fresh attack.

The heavy fire of the regular battalion checked the Dervish advance,
and Captain Fleming, the rest of the dismounted camel-men, and Ruthven
still carrying his native officer, found safety in their ranks.
[For his gallantry on this occasion Captain Ruthven has since received
the Victoria Cross.] A short fierce musketry combat followed at a range
of less than a hundred yards, at the end of which the assailants of the
baggage convoy were completely repulsed. The action was now practically
over and success was won. The Arab battalion, and those of the irregulars
that had rallied, advanced and drove the enemy before them towards Gedaref,
until at ten o'clock, both their front and rear attacks having failed,
the Dervishes abandoned all resistance and a general rout ensued.
No cavalry or artillery being available, further pursuit was impossible.

The town of Gedaref surrendered at noon. The Dervish Emir, Nur Angara,
who with 200 black riflemen and two brass guns had been left in command
of the garrison, made haste to submit. The remainder of the Dervishes,
continuing their flight under the Emir Saadalla, hurried to tell
the tale of defeat to Ahmed Fedil.

The casualties suffered by the Kassala column in the action were severe
in proportion to their numbers and the duration of the fight. The seven
British officers escaped untouched; but of the 1,400 soldiers and
irregulars engaged, 51 were killed and 80 wounded--a total of 131.
The Dervishes left 500 dead on the field, including four Emirs of rank.

The victory had been won, the enemy were routed, and the town was taken:
it had now to be defended. Colonel Parsons took possession of the principal
buildings, and began immediately to put them in a state of defence.
This was fortunately an easy matter. The position was good and adaptable.
It consisted of three large enclosures, capable of holding the entire force,
situated in echelon, so as to protect each other by their fire, and with
strong brick walls six feet high. All were at once set to work to clear the
approaches, to level the mud houses without, and to build ramparts or
banquettes within the walls. The three enclosures thus became three forts,
and in the principal work the two captured brass guns were mounted,
in small bastions thrown out from the north and west corners. While the
infantry were thus engaged, Ruthven and his camel-men made daily
reconnaissances of the surrounding country, and eagerly looked for
the first appearance of Ahmed Fedil.

By great good fortune a convoy of ammunition from Mugatta reached Gedaref
on the afternoon of the 27th. At dawn the next day Ruthven reported that
the advance guard of Ahmed Fedil was approaching the town. The attack began
at half-past eight. The Dervishes, who fought with their customary
gallantry, simultaneously assaulted the north, south, and west faces of the
defences. Creeping forward through the high doura, they were able to get
within 300 yards of the enclosures. But the intervening space had been
carefully cleared of cover, and was swept by the musketry of the defenders.
All attempts to cross this ground--even the most determined rushes--
proved vain. While some made hopeless charges towards the walls, others
crowded into a few straw shelters and mud huts which the troops had not
found opportunity to remove, and thence maintained a ragged fire.
After an hour's heavy fusillade the attack weakened, and presently ceased
altogether. At ten o'clock, however, strong reinforcements having come up,
the Dervishes made a second attempt. They were again repulsed, and at a
quarter to eleven, after losing more than 500 men in killed and wounded,
Ahmed Fedil admitted his defeat and retired to a clump of palm-trees two
miles to the west of the town. The casualties among the defenders were five
men killed, one British officer (Captain Dwyer) and thirteen men wounded.

The Dervishes remained for two days in the palm grove, and their leader
repeatedly endeavoured to induce them to renew the attack. But although
they closely surrounded the enclosures, and maintained a dropping fire,
they refused to knock their heads against brick walls a third time;
and on the 1st of October Ahmed Fedil was forced to retire to a more
convenient camp eight miles to the southward. Here for the next three weeks
he remained, savage and sulky; and the Kassala column were content to keep
to their defences. A few convoys from Mugatta made their way into the forts
under the cover of darkness, but for all practical purposes the blockade of
the garrison was complete. Their losses in action had reduced their
strength. They were not abundantly supplied with ammunition. The smell of
the putrefying corpses which lay around the walls and in the doura crop,
together with the unhealthy climate and the filth of the town, was a
fertile source of disease. A painful and racking fever afflicted all ranks,
and at one time as many as 270 of the 400 regular soldiers were prostrated.
The recurring night alarms added to the fatigues of the troops and the
anxieties of the seven officers. The situation was indeed so unsatisfactory
that Colonel Parsons was compelled to ask for assistance.

Major-General Rundle, who in the Sirdar's absence held the chief command,
immediately organised a relief expedition. The IXth, XIIth, and half of the
XIIIth Soudanese, with three companies of the Camel Corps, under Colonel
Collinson, were at once sent from Omdurman to the mouth of the Rahad river.
The infantry were conveyed in steamers; the Camel Corps marched along
the bank, completing the whole distance of 130 miles in fifty-six hours.
The Blue Nile garrisons, with the exception of the post at Rosaires,
were also concentrated. By the 8th of October the whole force was collected
at Abu Haraz. Five hundred camels, which had marched from Omdurman,
and every available local beast of burden joined the transport of the
column. On the 9th the XIIth Soudanese started up the Rahad river for
Ain el Owega. From this point the road leaves the river and strikes across
the desert to Gedaref, a distance of 100 miles; and in the whole distance
water is only found at the wells of El Kau. Owing to this scarcity of water
it was necessary to carry a supply with the troops. The transport being
insufficient to provide for the whole force, the march had to be made in
two columns. The Camel Corps and the XIIth Soudanese, about 1,200 strong,
set forth under Colonel Collinson from Ain el Owega on the 17th,
and reached Gedaref safely on the 22nd. Warned of their arrival,
Ahmed Fedil, having made a feeble night attack which was repulsed by the
garrison with a loss to themselves of two Soudanese wounded, realised that
he had now no chance of recapturing the town. Preparations were indeed made
to attack him; but on the 23rd of October, when a reconnaissance was made
in the direction of his camp, the Dervish force was seen moving off in a
southerly direction, their retreat covered by a strong rearguard, which was
intended to perform the double duty of protecting the retirement
and preventing desertion.

The operations conducted by Colonel Parsons thus ended in complete success.
Great difficulties were overcome, great perils were encountered,
great results were obtained. But while we applaud the skill of the
commander and the devotion of his subordinates, it is impossible not to
criticise the rash and over-confident policy which sent such a weak and
ill-equipped force on so hazardous an enterprise. The action of Gedaref,
as has been shown, was, through no fault of the officers or men of the
expedition, within an ace of being a disaster. But there were other
critical occasions when only the extraordinary good fortune which attended
the force saved it from destruction. First, the column was not discovered
until it reached Mugatta; secondly, it was not attacked in the thick bush;
thirdly, the Dervishes gave battle in the open instead of remaining within
their walls, whence the troops could not have driven them without artillery;
and, fourthly, the reserve ammunition arrived before the attack
of Ahmed Fedil.

After his defeat before Gedaref, Ahmed Fedil reverted to his intention
of joining the Khalifa in Kordofan, and he withdrew southwards towards the
Dinder river with a following that still numbered more than 5,000.
To pass the Nile in the face of the gunboats appeared impossible. He did
not, however, believe that steamers could navigate the higher reaches of
the rivers, and in the hopes of finding a safe crossing-place he directed
his march so as to strike the Blue Nile south of Karkoj. Moving leisurely,
and with frequent delays to pillage the inhabitants, he arrived on the
Dinder, twenty-five miles to the east of Karkoj, on the 7th of November.
Here he halted to reconnoitre. He had trusted in the Karkoj-Rosaires reach
being too shallow for the gunboats; but he found two powerful vessels
already patrolling it. Again frustrated, he turned southwards, meaning to
cross above the Rosaires Cataract, which was without doubt impassable
to steamers.

On the 22nd of October Colonel Lewis, with two companies of the Camel Corps
and three squadrons of cavalry, started from Omdurman with the object of
marching through the centre of the Ghezira and of re-establishing the
Egyptian authority. His progress was in every way successful.
The inhabitants were submissive, and resigned themselves with scarcely
a regret to orderly government. Very little lawlessness had followed the
defeat of the Khalifa, and whatever plundering there had been was chiefly
the work of the disbanded irregulars who had fought at Omdurman under Major
Wortley's command on the east bank of the Nile. In every village Sheikhs
were appointed in the name of the Khedive, and the officers of the cavalry
column concerned themselves with many difficult disputes about land, crops,
and women--all of which they settled to their satisfaction.
Marching through Awamra, Haloosen, and Mesalamia, Colonel Lewis reached
Karkoj on the 7th of November, almost at the same time that Ahmed Fedil
arrived on the Dinder.

For the next six weeks the movements of the two forces resembled a game
of hide-and-seek. Ahmed Fedil, concealed in the dense forest and jungle
of the east bank, raided the surrounding villages and worked his way
gradually towards the Rosaires Cataract. Colonel Lewis, perplexed by false
and vague information, remained halted at Karkoj, despatched vain
reconnaissances in the hopes of obtaining reliable news, revolved deep
schemes to cut off the raiding parties, or patrolled the river in the
gunboats. And meanwhile sickness fell upon his force. The malarial fever,
which is everywhere prevalent on the Blue Nile in the autumn, was now
at its height. More than 30 per cent of every garrison and every post
were affected. The company holding Rosaires were stricken to a man,
and only the two British officers remained fit for duty. The cavalry force
which had marched through the Ghezira suffered the most severely.
One after another every British officer was stricken down and lay burning
but helpless beneath the palm-leaf shelters or tottered on to the friendly
steamers that bore the worst cases north. Of the 460 men who composed the
force, ten had died and 420 were reported unfit for duty within a month
of their arrival at Karkoj.

During the end of November the Sheikh Bakr, who had deserted the Dervishes
after their retreat from Gedaref, arrived at Karkoj with 350 irregulars.
He claimed to have defeated his former chief many times, and produced a
sack of heads as evidence of his success. His loyalty being thus placed
beyond doubt, he was sent to keep contact with the Dervishes and encouraged
to the greatest efforts by the permission to appropriate whatever
spoils of war he could capture.

Meanwhile Ahmed Fedil was working his way slowly southward along a deep
khor which runs almost parallel to the Blue Nile and is perhaps twenty
miles from it. As soon as the position of the Dervish Emir was definitely
known, Colonel Lewis moved his force, which had been strengthened by
detachments of the Xth Soudanese, from Karkoj to Rosaires. Here he remained
for several days, with but little hope of obstructing the enemy's passage
of the river. On the 20th of December, however, full--though, as was
afterwards found, not very accurate--information was received. It was
reported that on the 18th Ahmed Fedil had reached the village of Dakhila,
about twenty miles south of the Rosaires post; that he himself had
immediately crossed with his advanced guard, and was busily passing the
women and children across the river on rafts.

On the 22nd, therefore, Colonel Lewis hurried the Sheikh Bakr up the west
bank to cut off their flocks and harass the Dervishes who had already
crossed the river. The irregulars accordingly departed; and the next day
news was brought that the Dervish force was almost equally divided by the
Blue Nile, half being on one bank and half on the other. At midday on
the 24th the gunboats Melik and Dal arrived from Omdurman with a detachment
of 200 more men of the Xth Soudanese under Major Fergusson, and thirty men
of the IXth Soudanese under Captain Sir Henry Hill. With this addition the
force at Colonel Lewis's disposal consisted of half the Xth Soudanese,
a small detachment of the IXth Soudanese, two Maxim guns, and a doctor.
Besides the regular troops, there were also the band of irregulars under
the Sheikh Bakr, numbering 380 men, 100 men under the Sheikh of Rosaires,
and a few other unclassified scallywags.

Colonel Lewis determined to attack what part of Ahmed Fedil's force still
remained on the east bank of the river, and on Christmas Day, at five
o'clock in the afternoon, he marched with every man he could muster in the
direction of Dakhila.

Moving in single file along a track which led through a dense forest of
thorny trees, the column reached Adu Zogholi, a village thought to be half,
but really not one-third, of the way to Dakhila, at eleven o'clock on
Christmas night. Here they bivouacked until 3 A.M. on the 26th, when the
march was resumed in the same straggling order through the same tangled
scrub. Daylight found them still several miles from the Dervish position,
and it was not until eight o'clock that the enemy's outposts were
discovered. After a few shots the Arab picket fell back, and the advance
guard, hurrying after them, emerged from the forest upon the open ground of
the river bank, broken only by palms and patches of high grass. Into this
space the whole column gradually debouched. Before them the Blue Nile,
shining in the early sunlight like a silver band, flowed swiftly;
and beyond its nearest waters rose a long, bare, gravel island crowned
with clumps of sandhills, to the shelter of which several hundred Dervishes,
surprised by the sudden arrival of the troops, were scampering. Beyond the
island, on the tall tree-clad cliff of the further bank, other minute
figures moved and bustled. The discordant sound of horns and drums floating
across the waters, and the unfurling of many bright flags, proclaimed the
presence and the intention of the hostile force.

The Dervish position was well chosen and of great defensive strength.
A little to the north of Dakhila the Blue Nile bifurcates--one rapid but
shallow stream flowing fairly straight under the east bank; another very
deep stream running in a wide curve under the west bank, cutting into it so
that it is precipitous. These two branches of the river enclose an island
a mile and a quarter long by 1,400 yards wide, and on this island,
surrounded by a natural moat of swiftly flowing water, was the Dervish dem.
The western side of the island rose into a line of low sandhills covered
with scrub and grass, with a steep reverse slope towards the foreshore of
the river-bank; and here, in this excellent cover, what eventually proved
to be three-quarters of the force of Ahmed Fedil were drawn up.
Backed against the deep arm of the river they had no choice, nor indeed
any other wish, but to fight. Before them stretched a bare slope of heavy
shingle, 1,000 yards wide, over which their enemies must advance to
the attack, Behind them the high precipitous west bank of the river,
which rose in some places to a height of fifty feet, was lined with the
300 riflemen who had already crossed; and from this secure position
Ahmed Fedil and four of his Emirs were able to watch, assist, and direct
the defence of the island. The force on the island was under the sole
command of the Emir Saadalla, of Gedaref repute; but, besides his own
followers, most of the men of the four other Emirs were concentrated there.

The prospect was uninviting. Colonel Lewis discovered that he had absurdly
under-rated the strength and discipline of the Dervish force. It had been
continually reported that the defeats at Gedaref had demoralised them,
and that their numbers did not exceed 2,000 men. Moreover, he had marched
to the attack in the belief that they were equally divided on both sides of
the river. Retreat was, however, impossible. Strong as was the position
of the enemy, formidable as was their strength, the direct assault was
actually safer than a retirement through the nineteen miles of gloomy
forest which lay between the adventurous column and Rosaires. The British
officer immediately determined to engage. At nine o'clock the two Maxims,
which represented the artillery of the little force, came into action in
good positions, while the Xth Soudanese and most of the irregulars lined
the east bank. Musketry and Maxim fire was now opened at long range.
The Dervishes replied, and as the smoke of their rifles gradually revealed
their position and their numbers, it soon became evident that no long-range
fire could dislodge them; and Colonel Lewis resolved, in spite of the great
disparity of force and disadvantage of ground, to attack them with
the bayonet. Some time was spent in finding fords across the interposing
arm of the river, and it was not until past ten o'clock that Bakr's men
crossed on to the island, and, supported by a company of the Xth Soudanese,
advanced towards the enemy's right and took up a position at about
800 yards from their line, to cover the rest of the passage.

Colonel Lewis now determined to turn the enemy's left from the north,
attack them in flank, and roll them into the deep part of the river.
With the Xth Soudanese, under Colonel Nason and Major Fergusson, he marched
northwards along the river's edge, sheltering as far as possible under the
curve of the bank from the fire, which now began to cause casualties.
Having reached the position from which it was determined to deliver
the attack, the battalion deployed into line, and, changing front half left,
advanced obliquely by alternate companies across the bare shingle towards
the sandhills. As they advanced, a galling fire was opened upon the left
flank by two hundred Dervishes admirably placed on a knoll. Major Fergusson
was detached with one company to dislodge them. The remaining four
companies continued the attack.

The Dervish musketry now became intense. The whole front
of the island position was lined with smoke, and behind it, from the high
cliff of the west bank, a long half-circle of riflemen directed a
second tier of converging bullets upon the 400 charging men. The shingle
jumped and stirred in all directions as it was struck. A hideous whistling
filled the air. The Soudanese began to drop on all sides, 'just like the
Dervishes at Omdurman,' and the ground was soon dotted with the bodies
of the killed and wounded. 'We did not,' said an officer, 'dare to
look back.' But undaunted by fire and cross-fire, the heroic
black soldiers--demons who would not be denied--pressed forward without
the slightest check or hesitation, and, increasing their pace to a
swift run in their eagerness to close with the enemy, reached the first
sandhills and found cover beneath them. A quarter of the battalion
had already fallen, and lay strewn on the shingle.

The rapidity of their advance had exhausted the Soudanese, and Lewis
ordered Nason to halt under cover of the sandhills for a few minutes,
so that the soldiers might get their breath before the final effort.
Thereupon the Dervishes, seeing that the troops were no longer advancing,
and believing that the attack was repulsed, resolved to clinch the matter.
Ahmed Fedil from the west bank sounded the charge on drum and bugle,
and with loud shouts of triumph and enthusiasm the whole force on the
island rose from among the upper sandhills, and, waving their banners,
advanced impetuously in counter-attack. But the Xth Soudanese,
panting yet unconquerable, responded to the call of their two white
officers, and, crowning the little dunes behind which they had sheltered,
met the exultant enemy with a withering fire and a responding shout.

The range was short and the fire effective. The astonished Arabs
wavered and broke; and then the soldiers, nobly led, swept forward
in a long scattered line and drove the enemy from one sandy ridge
to another--drove them across the rolling and uneven ground, every fold
of which contained Dervishes--drove them steadily back over the sandhills,
until all who were not killed or wounded were penned at the extreme
southern end of the island, with the deep unfordable arm of the river
behind them and the fierce black soldiers, roused to fury by their losses,
in front.

The Sheikh Bakr, with his men and the rest of the irregulars,
joined the victorious Soudanese, and from the cover of the sandhills,
now in the hands of the troops, a terrible fire was opened upon the
Dervishes crowded together on the bare and narrow promontory and on
the foreshore. Some tried to swim across the rushing river to their friends
on the west bank. Many were drowned--among them Saadalla, who sank horse
and man beneath the flood. Others took refuge from the fire by standing
up to their necks in the stream. The greater part, however, escaped to a
smaller island a little further up the river. But the cover was bad,
the deep water prevented further flight, and, after being exposed
for an hour and a half to the musketry of two companies,
the survivors--300 strong--surrendered.

By 11.30 the whole island was in the possession of the troops.
It was, however, still swept and commanded by the fire from the west bank.
The company which had been detached to subdue the Dervish riflemen
were themselves pinned behind their scanty cover. Major Fergusson
was severely wounded and a third of his men were hit. To withdraw this
company and the wounded was a matter of great difficulty; and it was
necessary to carry the Maxims across the river and bring them into action
at 400 yards. Firing ceased at last at three o'clock, and the victors
were left to measure their losses and their achievement.

There was neither time nor opportunity to count the enemy's dead,
but it is certain that at least 500 Arabs were killed on the island.
Two thousand one hundred and twenty-seven fighting men and several hundred
women and children surrendered. Five hundred and seventy-six rifles,
large quantities of ammunition, and a huge pile of spears and swords
were captured. Ahmed Fedil, indeed, escaped with a numerous following
across the Ghezira, but so disheartened were the Dervishes by this crushing
defeat that the whole force surrendered to the gunboat Metemma at Reng,
on the White Nile, on the 22nd of January, and their leader was content
to fly with scarcely a dozen followers to join the Khalifa.

The casualties among the troops in the action amounted to 41 killed
and 145 wounded, including Major Fergusson; and the Xth Soudanese, on whom
the brunt of the fighting fell, suffered a loss of 25 non-commissioned
officers and men killed, 1 British officer, 6 native officers, and 117
non-commissioned officers and men wounded, out of a total strength of 511.
The rest of the loss was among the irregulars, 495 of whom took part
in the engagement.




CHAPTER XIX: THE END OF THE KHALIFA



By the operations described in the last chapter, the whole of the regions
bordering on the Niles were cleared of hostile forces, dotted with military
posts, and brought back to Egyptian authority. The Khalifa, however, still
remained in Kordofan. After he had made good his escape from the
battlefield of Omdurman, Abdullah had hurried in the direction of El Obeid,
moving by the wells of Shat and Zeregia, which at that season of the year
were full of water after the rains. At Abu Sherai, having shaken off the
pursuit of the friendlies, he halted, encamped, and busily set to work to
reorganise his shattered forces. How far he succeeded in this
will presently be apparent. In the beginning of November the general
drying-up of the country turned the wells at Abu Sherai into pools of mud,
and the Khalifa moved westward to Aigaila. Here he was joined by the Emir
El Khatem with the El Obeid garrison. This chief and his followers
had never been engaged with the 'Turks,' and were consequently fresh
and valiant. Their arrival greatly encouraged the force which the Khalifa
had rallied. A large dem was formed at Aigaila, and here, since the water
was plentiful during December, Abdullah abode quietly, sending his raiding
parties far afield to collect grain and other supplies.

As soon as the Sirdar, who had returned from England, received the news
of the success at Rosaires he determined to make an attempt to capture
the Khalifa; and on the 29th of December sent for Colonel Kitchener,
to whom as the senior available officer he had decided to entrust this
honourable enterprise. The colonel was directed to take a small mixed force
into Kordofan and to reconnoitre the enemy's position. If possible, he was
to attack and capture Abdullah, whose followers were believed not to exceed
1,000 ill-armed men. The 'Kordofan Field Force,' as its officers called it,
was formed as follows:

 Commanding: COLONEL KITCHENER

  Assistant Adjutant-General: LIEUT.-COLONEL MITFORD

  Deputy-Assistant Adjutant-General: MAJOR WILLIAMS

   Troops:

    Two squadrons Egyptian Cavalry
    2nd Egyptians
    XIVth Soudanese
    Two galloping Maxims
    Two mule guns
    One company Camel Corps.

Camel transport was drawn from the Atbara and from the Blue Nile.
The troops were conveyed by steamer to Duem, and concentrated there during
the first week in 1899. The camels were collected at Kawa, and, although
several of the convoys had to march as much as 400 miles, the whole number
had arrived by the 10th of January.

The prime difficulty of the operation was the want of water.
The Khalifa's position was nearly 125 miles from the river. The intervening
country is, in the wet season, dotted with shallow lakes, but by January
these are reduced to mud puddles and only occasional pools remain. All the
water needed by the men, horses, and mules of the column must therefore be
carried. The camels must go thirsty until one of the rare pools--the likely
places for which were known to the native guides--might be found.
Now, the capacity of a camel for endurance without drinking is famous;
but it has its limits. If he start having filled himself with water,
he can march for five days without refreshment. If he then have another
long drink, he can continue for five days more. But this strains his power
to the extreme; he suffers acutely during the journey, and probably dies
at its end. In war, however, the miseries of animals cannot be considered;
their capacity for work alone concerns the commander. It was thought that,
partly by the water carried in skins, partly by the drying-up pools,
and partly by the camel's power of endurance, it might be just possible
for a force of about 1,200 men to strike out 125 miles into the desert,
to have three days to do their business in, and to come back to the Nile.
This operation, which has been called the Shirkela Reconnaissance,
occupied the Kordofan Field Force.

The report of the route from Kohi was considered encouraging.
At Gedid the old wells promised sufficient water to refill the skins,
and within seven miles of the wells were two large pools at which the
camels could be watered. The column, therefore, prepared for the journey.
Nothing was neglected which could increase the water carried or diminish
the number of drinkers. Only twelve cavalry were taken. The horses of the
Maxim guns and the mules of the battery were reduced to the lowest
possible number. Every person, animal, or thing not vitally necessary
was remorselessly excluded. In order to lighten the loads and make room
for more water, even the ammunition was limited to 100 rounds per rifle.
The daily consumption of water was restricted to one pint for men,
six gallons for horses, and five for mules. To lessen the thirst caused
by the heat Colonel Kitchener decided to march by night. An advanced depot
was formed at Gedid and food for two days accumulated there. Besides this,
each unit carried ten, and the column transport seven, days' rations.
Thus the force were supplied with food up till the 9th of February,
and their radius of action, except as restricted by water,
was nineteen days. This was further extended five days by the arrangement
of a convoy which was to set out on the 30th of January to meet them
as they returned.

The column--numbering 1,604 officers and men and 1,624 camels and other
beasts of burden--started from Kohi at 3 P.M. on the 23rd of January,
having sent on a small advanced party to the wells of Gedid twelve hours
before. The country through which their route lay was of barren and
miserable aspect. They had embarked on a sandy ocean with waves of
thorny scrub and withered grass. From the occasional rocky ridges,
which allowed a more extended view, this sterile jungle could be seen
stretching indefinitely on all sides. Ten miles from the river all
vestiges of animal life disappeared. The land was a desert; not the open
desert of the Northern Soudan, but one vast unprofitable thicket,
whose interlacing thorn bushes, unable to yield the slightest nourishment
to living creatures, could yet obstruct their path.

Through this the straggling column, headed in the daylight by the red
Egyptian flag and at night by a lantern on a pole, wound its weary way,
the advanced guard cutting a path with axes and marking the track with
strips of calico, the rearguard driving on the laggard camels and
picking up the numerous loads which were cast. Three long marches brought
them on the 25th to Gedid. The first detachment had already arrived and had
opened up the wells. None gave much water; all emitted a foul stench,
and one was occupied by a poisonous serpent eight feet long--the sole
inhabitant. The camels were sent to drink at the pool seven miles away,
and it was hoped that some of the water-skins could be refilled;
but, after all, the green slime was thought unfit for human consumption,
and they had to come back empty.

The march was resumed on the 26th. The trees were now larger;
the scrub became a forest; the sandy soil changed to a dark red colour;
but otherwise the character of the country was unaltered. The column rested
at Abu Rokba. A few starving inhabitants who occupied the huts pointed out
the grave of the Khalifa's father and the little straw house in which
Abdullah was wont to pray during his visits. Lately, they said, he had
retired from Aigaila to Shirkela, but even from this latter place
he had made frequent pilgrimages.

At the end of the next march, which was made by day, the guides,
whose memories had been refreshed by flogging, discovered a large pool of
good water, and all drank deeply in thankful joy. A small but strong zeriba
was built near this precious pool, and the reserve food and a few sick men
were left with a small garrison under an Egyptian officer. The column
resumed their journey. On the 29th they reached Aigaila, and here, with
feelings of astonishment scarcely less than Robinson Crusoe experienced
at seeing the footprint in the sand, they came upon the Khalifa's abandoned
camp. A wide space had been cleared of bush, and the trees, stripped of
their smaller branches, presented an uncanny appearance. Beyond stood the
encampment--a great multitude of yellow spear-grass dwellings, perfectly
clean, neatly arranged in streets and squares, and stretching for miles.
The aspect of this strange deserted town, rising, silent as a cemetery,
out of the awful scrub, chilled everyone who saw it. Its size might indeed
concern their leader. At the very lowest computation it had contained
20,000 people. How many of these were fighting men? Certainly not fewer
than 8,000 or 9,000. Yet the expedition had been sent on the assumption
that there were scarcely 1,000 warriors with the Khalifa!

Observing every precaution of war, the column crawled forward,
and the cavalry and Camel Corps, who covered the advance, soon came
in contact with the enemy's scouts. Shots were exchanged and the Arabs
retreated. The column halted three miles to the east of this position,
and, forming a strong zeriba, passed the night in expectation of an attack.
Nothing, however, happened, and at dawn Mitford was sent out with some
mounted 'friendlies' to reconnoitre. At ten o'clock he returned, and his
report confirmed the conclusions which had been drawn from the size of the
Aigaila camp. Creeping forward to a good point of view, the officer had
seen the Dervish flags lining the crest of the hill. From their number,
the breadth of front covered, and the numerous figures of men moving
about them, he estimated not fewer than 2,000 Arab riflemen in the
front line. How many more were in reserve it was impossible to say.
The position was, moreover, of great strength, being surrounded
by deep ravines and pools of water.

The news was startling. The small force were 125 miles from their base;
behind them lay an almost waterless country, and in front was a powerful
enemy. An informal council of war was held. The Sirdar had distinctly
ordered that, whatever happened, there was to be no waiting; the troops
were either to attack or retire. Colonel Kitchener decided to retire.
The decision having been taken, the next step was to get beyond the enemy's
reach as quickly as possible, and the force began their retreat on the same
night. The homeward march was not less long and trying than the advance,
and neither hopes of distinction nor glamour of excitement cheered the
weary soldiers. As they toiled gloomily back towards the Nile, the horror
of the accursed land grew upon all. Hideous spectacles of human misery
were added to the desolation of the hot, thorny scrub and stinking pools
of mud. The starving inhabitants had been lured from their holes and
corners by the outward passage of the troops, and hoped to snatch some food
from the field of battle. Disappointed, they now approached the camps at
night in twos and threes, making piteous entreaties for any kind of
nourishment. Their appeals were perforce unregarded; not an ounce
of spare food remained.

Towards the end of the journey the camels, terribly strained by their
privation of water, began to die, and it was evident that the force would
have no time to spare. One young camel, though not apparently exhausted,
refused to proceed, and even when a fire was lighted round him remained
stubborn and motionless; so that, after being terribly scorched, he had
to be shot. Others fell and died all along the route. Their deaths brought
some relief to the starving inhabitants. For as each animal was left behind,
the officers, looking back, might see first one, then another furtive
figure emerge from the bush and pounce on the body like a vulture;
and in many cases before life was extinct the famished natives
were devouring the flesh.

On the 5th of February the column reached Kohi, and the Kordofan
Field Force, having overcome many difficulties and suffered many hardships,
was broken up, unsuccessful through no fault of its commander,
its officers, or its men.

For nearly a year no further operations were undertaken against
the Khalifa, and he remained all through the spring and summer of 1899
supreme in Kordofan, reorganising his adherents and plundering the country
--a chronic danger to the new Government, a curse to the local inhabitants,
and a most serious element of unrest. The barren and almost waterless
regions into which he had withdrawn presented very difficult obstacles to
any military expedition, and although powerful forces were still
concentrated at Khartoum, the dry season and the uncertain whereabouts
of the enemy prevented action. But towards the end of August trustworthy
information was received by the Intelligence Department, through the agency
of friendly tribesmen, that the Khalifa, with all his army, was encamped
at Jebel Gedir--that same mountain in Southern Kordofan to which nearly
twenty years before he and the Mahdi had retreated after the flight from
Abba Island. Here among old memories which his presence revived he became
at once a centre of fanaticism. Night after night he slept upon
the Mahdi's stone; and day after day tales of his dreams were carried
by secret emissaries not only throughout the Western Soudan, but into the
Ghezira and even to Khartoum. And now, his position being definite and his
action highly dangerous, it was decided to move against him.

On the 13th of October the first Soudanese battalion was despatched
in steamers from Khartoum, and by the 19th a force of some 7,000 men,
well equipped with camel transport, was concentrated at Kaka, a village on
the White Nile not far north of Fashoda. The distance from here to Jebel
Gedir was about eighty miles, and as for the first fifty no water existed;
the whole supply had to be carried in tanks. Sir Reginald Wingate, who was
in command of the infantry, reached Fungor, thirty miles from the enemy's
position, with the two leading battalions (IXth and Xth Soudanese) on
the 23rd of October, only to find news that the Khalifa had left his camp
at Jebel Gedir on the 18th and had receded indefinitely into the desert.
The cast having failed, and further progress involving a multiplication of
difficulties, Lord Kitchener, who was at Kaka, stopped the operations,
and the whole of the troops returned to Khartoum, which they reached
in much vexation and disappointment on the 1st of November.

It was at first universally believed that the Khalifa's intention
was to retire to an almost inaccessible distance--to El Obeid or Southern
Darfur--and the officers of the Egyptian army passed an unhappy fortnight
reading the Ladysmith telegrams and accusing their evil fortune which kept
them so far from the scene of action. But soon strange rumours began to
run about the bazaars of Omdurman of buried weapons and whispers of revolt.
For a few days a vague feeling of unrest pervaded the native city,
and then suddenly on the 12th of November came precise and surprising news.
The Khalifa was not retreating to the south or to the west, but advancing
northward with Omdurman, not El Obeid, as his object. Emboldened by the
spectacle of two successive expeditions retreating abortive, and by,
who shall say what wild exaggerated tales of disasters to the Turks far
beyond the limits of the Soudan, Abdullah had resolved to stake all that
yet remained to him in one last desperate attempt to recapture his former
capital; and so, upon the 12th of November, his advanced guard, under the
Emir Ahmed Fedil, struck the Nile opposite Abba Island, and audaciously
fired volleys of musketry at the gunboat Sultan which was patrolling
the river.

The name of Abba Island may perhaps carry the reader back to the very
beginning of this story. Here, eighteen years before, the Mahdi had lived
and prayed after his quarrel with the haughty Sheikh; here Abdullah had
joined him; here the flag of the revolt had been set up, and the first
defeat had been inflicted upon the Egyptian troops; and here, too,
still dwelt--dwells, indeed, to this day--one of those same brothers who
had pursued through all the vicissitudes and convulsions which had shaken
the Soudan his humble industry of building wooden boats. It is surely a
curious instance of the occasional symmetry of history that final
destruction should have befallen the last remains of the Mahdist movement
so close to the scene of its origin!

The news which had reached Khartoum set all wheels in motion.
The IXth and XIIIth Soudanese Battalions were mobilised on the 13th of
November and despatched at once to Abba Island under Colonel Lewis.
Kitchener hurried south from Cairo, and arrived in Khartoum on the 18th.
A field force of some 2,300 troops--one troop of cavalry, the 2nd Field
Battery, the 1st Maxim Battery, the Camel Corps, IXth Soudanese, XIIIth
Soudanese, and one company 2nd Egyptians--was immediately formed, and the
command entrusted to Sir Reginald Wingate. There were besides some 900 Arab
riflemen and a few irregular mounted scouts. On the 20th these troops were
concentrated at Fashi Shoya, whence Colonel Lewis had obliged Ahmed Fedil
to withdraw, and at 3.30 on the afternoon of the 21st the expedition
started in a south-westerly direction upon the track of the enemy.

The troops bivouacked some ten miles south-west of Fashi Shoya,
and then marched in bright moonlight to Nefisa, encountering only a
Dervish patrol of about ten men. At Nefisa was found the evacuated camp
of Ahmed Fedil, containing a quantity of grain which he had collected
from the riverain district, and, what was of more value, a sick but
intelligent Dervish who stated that the Emir had just moved to Abu Aadel,
five miles further on. This information was soon confirmed by Mahmud
Hussein, an Egyptian officer, who with an irregular patrol advanced boldly
in reconnaissance. The infantry needed a short rest to eat a little food,
and Sir Reginald Wingate ordered Colonel Mahon to press on immediately
with the whole of the mounted troops and engage the enemy, so as to prevent
him retreating before an action could be forced.

Accordingly cavalry, Camel Corps, Maxims, and irregulars--whose fleetness
of foot enabled them, though not mounted, to keep pace with the rest--
set off at their best pace: and after them at 9.15 hurried the infantry,
refreshed by a drink at the water tanks and a hasty meal. As they advanced
the scrub became denser, and all were in broken and obstructed ground when,
at about ten o'clock, the sound of Maxim firing and the patter of musketry
proclaimed that Mahon had come into contact. The firing soon became more
rapid, and as the infantry approached it was evident that the mounted
troops were briskly engaged. The position which they occupied was a low
ridge which rose a little above the level of the plain and was
comparatively bare of scrub; from this it was possible at a distance of
800 yards to overlook the Dervish encampment huddled around the water pools.
It was immediately evident that the infantry and the battery were arriving
none too soon. The Dervishes, who had hitherto contented themselves with
maintaining a ragged and desultory fire from the scrub, now sallied forth
into the open and delivered a most bold and determined charge upon the guns.
The intervening space was little more than 200 yards, and for a moment
the attack looked as if it might succeed. But upon the instant the IXth and
XIIIth Soudanese, who had been doubled steadily for upwards of two miles,
came into line, filling the gap between Mahon's guns and dismounted Camel
Corps and the irregular riflemen; and so the converging fire of the whole
force was brought to bear upon the enemy--now completely beaten and
demoralised. Two Dervishes, brothers, bound together hand and foot,
perished in valiant comradeship ninety-five paces from the line of guns.
Many were slain, and the remainder fled. The whole Egyptian line now
advanced upon the encampment hard upon the tracks of the retreating enemy,
who were seen emerging from the scrub on to a grassy plain more than a
mile away, across which and further for a distance of five miles they were
pursued by the cavalry and the Camel Corps. Three hundred and twenty
corpses were counted, and at least an equal number must have been wounded.
Ahmed Fedil and one or two of his principal Emirs escaped to the southward
and to the Khalifa. The Egyptian loss amounted to five men wounded.
The troops bivouacked in square formation, at about four o'clock,
near the scene of action.

A question of considerable difficulty and some anxiety now arose.
It was learned from the prisoners that the Khalifa, with about 5,000
fighting men, was moving northwards towards the wells of Gedid, of which
we have already heard in the Shirkela reconnaissance, and which were some
twenty-five miles from the scene of the fight. The troops were already
fatigued by their severe exertions. The water pool was so foul that even
the thirsty camels refused to drink of it, and moreover scarcely any water
remained in the tanks. It was therefore of vital importance to reach the
wells of Gedid. But supposing exhausted troops famishing for water reached
them only to be confronted by a powerful Dervish force already
in possession! Sir Reginald Wingate decided, however, to face the risk,
and at a few minutes before midnight the column set out again on its road.
The ground was broken; the night was sultry: and as the hours passed by
the sufferings of the infantry began to be most acute. Many piteous appeals
were made for water. All had perforce to be refused by the commander,
who dared not diminish by a mouthful his slender store until he knew the
true situation at Gedid. In these circumstances the infantry, in spite of
their admirable patience, became very restive. Many men fell exhausted to
the ground; and it was with a feeling of immense relief that at nine
o'clock on the morning of the 24th news was received from the cavalry
that the wells had been occupied by them without opposition. All the water
in the tanks was at once distributed, and thus refreshed the infantry
struggled on and settled down at midday around a fine pool of
comparatively pure water.

At Gedid, as at Nefisa, a single Dervish, and this time a sullen fellow,
was captured, and from him it was learned that the Khalifa's army was
encamped seven miles to the south-east. It was now clear that his position
was strategically most unfavourable. His route to the north was barred;
his retreat to the south lay through waterless and densely wooded
districts; and as the seizure of the grain supplies which had resulted from
Fedil's foraging excursions rendered his advance or retirement a matter of
difficulty, it seemed probable he would stand. Wingate, therefore, decided
to attack him at dawn. Leaving the transport under guard by the water with
instructions to follow at four o'clock, the troops moved off at midnight,
screened in front at a distance of half a mile by the cavalry and their
flanks protected by the Camel Corps. The road was in places so thickly
wooded that a path had to be cut by the infantry pioneers and the artillery.
At three o'clock, when about three miles from the enemy's position,
the force was deployed into fighting formation. The irregular riflemen
covered the front; behind them the XIIIth and IXth Soudanese; and behind
these, again, the Maxims and the artillery were disposed. Cautiously and
silently the advance was resumed, and now in the distance the beating of
war drums and the long booming note of the Khalifa's horn broke on the
stillness, proclaiming that the enemy were not unprepared. At a few minutes
before four o'clock another low ridge, also comparatively bare of scrub,
was reached and occupied as a position. The cavalry were now withdrawn from
the front, a few infantry picquets were thrown out, and the rest of the
force lay down in the long grass of the little ridge and waited
for daylight.

After about an hour the sky to the eastward began to grow paler with the
promise of the morning and in the indistinct light the picquets could be
seen creeping gradually in; while behind them along the line of the trees
faint white figures, barely distinguishable, began to accumulate.
Sir Reginald Wingate, fearing lest a sudden rush should be made upon him,
now ordered the whole force to stand up and open fire; and forthwith,
in sudden contrast to the silence and obscurity, a loud crackling fusillade
began. It was immediately answered. The enemy's fire flickered along a wide
half-circle and developed continually with greater vigour opposite the
Egyptian left, which was consequently reinforced. As the light improved,
large bodies of shouting Dervishes were seen advancing; but the fire was
too hot, and their Emirs were unable to lead them far beyond the edge of
the wood. So soon as this was perceived Wingate ordered a general advance;
and the whole force, moving at a rapid pace down the gentle slope,
drove the enemy through the trees into the camp about a mile and a half
away. Here, huddled together under their straw shelters, 6,000 women and
children were collected, all of whom, with many unwounded combatants,
made signals of surrender and appeals for mercy. The 'cease fire' was
sounded at half-past six. Then, and not till then, was it discovered how
severe the loss of the Dervishes had been. It seemed to the officers that,
short as was the range, the effect of rifle fire under such unsatisfactory
conditions of light could not have been very great. But the bodies thickly
scattered in the scrub were convincing evidences. In one space not much
more than a score of yards square lay all the most famous Emirs of the once
far-reaching Dervish domination. The Khalifa Abdullah, pierced by several
balls, was stretched dead on his sheepskin; on his right lay Ali-Wad-Helu,
on his left Ahmed Fedil. Before them was a line of lifeless bodyguards;
behind them a score of less important chiefs; and behind these, again,
a litter of killed and wounded horses. Such was the grim spectacle which
in the first light of the morning met the eyes of the British officers,
to some of whom it meant the conclusion of a perilous task prolonged over
many years. And while they looked in astonishment not unmingled with awe,
there scrambled unhurt from under a heap of bodies the little Emir Yunes,
of Dongola, who added the few links necessary to complete the chain.

At Omdurman Abdullah had remained mounted behind the hill of Surgham,
but in this his last fight he had set himself in the forefront of the
battle. Almost at the first discharge, his son Osman, the Sheikh-ed-Din,
was wounded, and as he was carried away he urged the Khalifa to save
himself by flight; but the latter, with a dramatic dignity sometimes
denied to more civilised warriors, refused. Dismounting from his horse,
and ordering his Emirs to imitate him, he seated himself on his sheepskin
and there determined to await the worst of fortune. And so it came to pass
that in this last scene in the struggle with Mahdism the stage was cleared
of all its striking characters, and Osman Digna alone purchased by flight
a brief ignoble liberty, soon to be followed by a long ignoble servitude.

Twenty-nine Emirs, 3,000 fighting men, 6,000 women and children
surrendered themselves prisoners. The Egyptian losses were three killed
and twenty-three wounded.

     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .

The long story now approaches its conclusion. The River War is over.
In its varied course, which extended over fourteen years and involved the
untimely destruction of perhaps 300,000 lives, many extremes and contrasts
have been displayed. There have been battles which were massacres,
and others that were mere parades. There have been occasions of shocking
cowardice and surprising heroism, of plans conceived in haste and emergency,
of schemes laid with slow deliberation, of wild extravagance and cruel
waste, of economies scarcely less barbarous, of wisdom and incompetence.
But the result is at length achieved, and the flags of England and Egypt
wave unchallenged over the valley of the Nile.

At what cost were such advantages obtained? The reader must judge
for himself of the loss in men; yet while he deplores the deaths of brave
officers and soldiers, and no less the appalling destruction of the valiant
Arabs, he should remember that such slaughter is inseparable from war,
and that, if the war be justified, the loss of life cannot be accused.
But I write of the cost in money, and the economy of the campaigns cannot
be better displayed than by the table below:

 Railway: EP 1,181,372
 Telegraph: EP 21,825
 Gunboats: EP 154,934
 Military Expenditure: EP 996,223
   TOTAL EXPENDITURES: EP 2,354,354 (EP1 = British P1 0s.6d.)

For something less than two and a half millions sterling active military
operations were carried on for nearly three years, involving the employment
--far from its base--of an army of 25,000 disciplined troops, including an
expensive British contingent of 8,000 men, and ending in the utter defeat
of an enemy whose armed forces numbered at the beginning of the war upwards
of 80,000 soldiers, and the reconquest and re-occupation of a territory
measuring sixteen hundred miles from north to south and twelve hundred
from east to west [Lieut.-Colonel Stewart's Report: Egypt, No.11, 1883],
which at one time supported at least twenty millions of inhabitants.
But this is not all. Of the total EP2,354,354 only EP996,223 can be
accounted as military expenditure. For the remaining EP1,358,131 Egypt
possesses 500 miles of railway, 900 miles of telegraph, and a flotilla of
steamers. The railway will not, indeed, pay a great return upon the capital
invested, but it will immediately pay something, and may ultimately
pay much. The telegraph is as necessary as the railway to the development
of the country; it costs far less, and, when the Egyptian system is
connected with the South African, it will be a sure source of revenue.
Lastly, there are the gunboats. The reader cannot have any doubts as to the
value of these vessels during the war. Never was money better spent on
military plant. Now that the river operations are over the gunboats
discharge the duties of ordinary steamers; and although they are,
of course, expensive machines for goods and passenger traffic, they are
by no means inefficient. The movement of the troops, their extra pay,
the supplies at the end of a long line of communications, the ammunition,
the loss by wear and tear of uniforms and accoutrements,
the correspondence, the rewards, all cost together less than a million
sterling; and for that million Egypt has recovered the Soudan.

The whole EP2,354,354 had, however, to be paid during the campaigns.
Towards this sum Great Britain advanced, as has been related, P800,000
as a loan; and this was subsequently converted into a gift. The cost to the
British taxpayer of the recovery and part acquisition of the Soudan,
of the military prestige, and of the indulgence of the sentiment known as
'the avenging of Gordon' has therefore been P800,000; and it may be stated
in all seriousness that English history does not record any instance of so
great a national satisfaction being more cheaply obtained. The rest of the
money has been provided by Egypt; and this strange country, seeming to
resemble the camel, on which so much of her wealth depends, has,
in default of the usual sources of supply, drawn upon some fifth stomach
for nourishment, and, to the perplexity even of those best acquainted with
her amazing financial constitution, has stood the strain.

'The extraordinary expenditure in connection with the Soudan campaign,'
wrote Mr. J.L. Gorst, the Financial Adviser to the Khedive in his Note of
December 20, 1898 [Note by the Financial Adviser on the Budget of 1899:
EGYPT, No. 3, 1899], 'has been charged to the Special Reserve Fund.
At the present moment this fund shows a deficit of EP336,000, and there are
outstanding charges on account of the expedition amounting to EP330,000,
making a total deficit of EP666,000.'

'On the other hand, the fund will be increased, when the accounts
of the year are made up, by a sum of EP382,000, being the balance of
the share of the Government in the surplus of 1898, after deduction of
the excess administrative expenditure in that year, and by a sum of
EP90,000, being part of the proceeds of the sale of the Khedivial postal
steamers. The net deficit will, therefore, be EP194,000; and if the year
1899 is as prosperous as the present year, it may be hoped that the deficit
will disappear when the accounts of 1899 are closed.'

A great, though perhaps academic, issue remains: Was the war justified
by wisdom and by right?

If the reader will look at a map of the Nile system, he cannot fail
to be struck by its resemblance to a palm-tree. At the top the green and
fertile area of the Delta spreads like the graceful leaves and foliage.
The stem is perhaps a little twisted, for the Nile makes a vast bend
in flowing through the desert. South of Khartoum the likeness is again
perfect, and the roots of the tree begin to stretch deeply into the Soudan.
I can imagine no better illustration of the intimate and sympathetic
connection between Egypt and the southern provinces. The water--the life
of the Delta--is drawn from the Soudan, and passes along the channel of
the Nile, as the sap passes up the stem of the tree, to produce a fine crop
of fruit above. The benefit to Egypt is obvious; but Egypt does not benefit
alone. The advantages of the connection are mutual; for if the Soudan
is thus naturally and geographically an integral part of Egypt,
Egypt is no less essential to the development of the Soudan. Of what use
would the roots and the rich soil be, if the stem were severed, by which
alone their vital essence may find expression in the upper air?

Here, then, is a plain and honest reason for the River War.
To unite territories that could not indefinitely have continued divided;
to combine peoples whose future welfare is inseparably intermingled;
to collect energies which, concentrated, may promote a common interest;
to join together what could not improve apart--these are the objects which,
history will pronounce, have justified the enterprise.

The advantage to Great Britain is no less clear to those who believe
that our connection with Egypt, as with India, is in itself a source of
strength. The grasp of England upon Egypt has been strengthened twofold by
the events of the war. The joint action and ownership of the two countries
in the basin of the Upper Nile form an additional bond between them.
The command of the vital river is an irresistible weapon. The influence of
France over the native mind in Egypt has been completely destroyed by the
result of the Fashoda negotiations; and although she still retains the
legal power to meddle in and obstruct all financial arrangements,
that power, unsupported by real influence, is like a body whence the soul
has fled, which may, indeed, be an offensive encumbrance,
but must ultimately decompose and crumble into dust.

But, apart from any connection with Egypt, Britain has gained
a vast territory which, although it would be easy to exaggerate its value,
is nevertheless coveted by every Great Power in Europe. The policy of
acquiring large waterways, which has been pursued deliberately or
unconsciously by British statesmen for three centuries, has been carried
one step further; and in the valley of the Nile England may develop
a trade which, passing up and down the river and its complement the railway,
shall exchange the manufactures of the Temperate Zone for the products of
the Tropic of Cancer, and may use the north wind to drive civilisation and
prosperity to the south and the stream of the Nile to bear wealth and
commerce to the sea.










APPENDIX



TEXT OF THE SOUDAN AGREEMENT OF THE 19TH OF JANUARY, 1899,
AND OF THE DECLARATION OF THE 21ST OF MARCH, 1899


AGREEMENT BETWEEN HER BRITANNIC MAJESTY'S GOVERNMENT
AND THE GOVERNMENT OF HIS HIGHNESS THE KHEDIVE OF EGYPT,
RELATIVE TO THE FUTURE ADMINISTRATION OF THE SOUDAN

WHEREAS certain provinces in the Soudan which were in rebellion against
the authority of His Highness the Khedive have now been reconquered by the
joint military and financial efforts of Her Britannic Majesty's Government
and the Government of His Highness the Khedive; AND whereas it has become
necessary to decide upon a system for the administration of and for the
making of laws for the said reconquered provinces, under which due
allowance may be made for the backward and unsettled condition of large
portions thereof, and for the varying requirements of different localities;
AND whereas it is desired to give effect to the claims which have accrued
to Her Britannic Majesty's Government, by right of conquest, to share in
the present settlement and future working and development of the
said system of administration and legislation;
AND whereas it is conceived that for many purposes Wady Halfa and Suakin
may be most effectively administered in conjunction with the reconquered
provinces to which they are respectively adjacent:
NOW, it is hereby agreed and declared by and between the Undersigned,
duly authorised for that purpose, as follows:-

ART. I.

The word 'Soudan' in this Agreement means all the territories South of the
22nd parallel of latitude, which:
1. Have never been evacuated by Egyptian troops since the year 1882; or
2. Which having before the late rebellion in the Soudan been administered
by the Government of His Highness the Khedive, were temporarily lost
to Egypt, and have been reconquered by Her Majesty's Government and the
Egyptian Government, acting in concert; or
3. Which may hereafter be reconquered by the two Governments acting
in concert.

ART. II.

The British and Egyptian flags shall be used together, both on land
and water, throughout the Soudan, except in the town of Suakin, in which
locality the Egyptian flag alone shall be used.

ART. III.

The supreme military and civil command in the Soudan shall be vested
in one officer, termed the 'Governor-General of the Soudan.' He shall be
appointed by Khedivial Decree on the recommendation of Her Britannic
Majesty's Government, and shall be removed only by Khedivial Decree,
with the consent of Her Britannic Majesty's Government.

ART. IV.

Laws, as also Orders and Regulations with the full force of law,
for the good government of the Soudan, and for regulating the holding,
disposal, and devolution of property of every kind therein situate,
may from time to time be made, altered, or abrogated by Proclamation of the
Governor-General. Such Laws, Orders, and Regulations may apply to the whole
or any named part of the Soudan, and may, either explicitly or by necessary
implication, alter or abrogate any existing Law or Regulation. All such
Proclamations shall be forthwith notified to Her Britannic Majesty's Agent
and Consul-General in Cairo, and to the President of the Council of
Ministers of His Highness the Khedive.

ART. V.

No Egyptian Law, Decree, Ministerial Arrete, or other enactment
hereafter to be made or promulgated shall apply to the Soudan
or any part thereof, save in so far as the same shall be applied by
Proclamation of the Governor-General in manner hereinbefore provided.

ART. VI.

In the definition by Proclamation of the conditions under which Europeans,
of whatever nationality, shall be at liberty to trade with or reside in
the Soudan, or to hold property within its limits, no special privileges
shall be accorded to the subjects of any one or more Power.

ART. VII.

Import duties on entering the Soudan shall not be payable on goods coming
from Egyptian territory. Such duties may, however, be levied on goods
coming from elsewhere than Egyptian territory; but in the case of goods
entering the Soudan at Suakin, or any other port on the Red Sea Littoral,
they shall not exceed the corresponding duties for the time being leviable
on goods entering Egypt from abroad. Duties may be levied on goods leaving
the Soudan, at such rates as may from time to time be prescribed
by Proclamation.

ART. VIII.

The jurisdiction of the Mixed Tribunals shall not extend, nor be recognised
for any purpose whatsoever, in any part of the Soudan, except in the town
of Suakin.

ART.IX.

Until, and save so far as it shall be otherwise determined by Proclamation,
the Soudan, with the exception of the town of Suakin, shall be and remain
under martial law.

ART. X.

No Consuls, Vice-Consuls, or Consular Agents shall be accredited
in respect of nor allowed to reside in the Soudan, without the previous
consent of Her Britannic Majesty's Government.

ART. XI.

The importation of slaves into the Soudan, as also their exportation,
is absolutely prohibited. Provision shall be made by Proclamation for the
enforcement of this Regulation.

ART. XII.

It is agreed between the two Governments that special attention shall
be paid to the enforcement of the Brussels Act of the 2nd of July, 1890,
in respect to the import, sale, and manufacture of fire-arms and their
munitions, and distilled or spirituous liquors.


           Done in Cairo, the 19th of January, 1899.

                             Signed: BOURTROS GHALI-CROMER.





DECLARATION RELATIVE TO THE BRITISH AND FRENCH SPHERES OF INFLUENCE
IN CENTRAL AFRICA

            (Signed at London, March 21st, 1899)

THE Undersigned, duly authorised by their Governments, have signed the
following declaration:-

The IVth Article of the Convention of the 14th of June, 1898, shall be
completed by the following provisions, which shall be considered as forming
an integral part of it:
1. Her Britannic Majesty's Government engages not to acquire either
territory or political influence to the west of the line of frontier
defined in the following paragraph, and the Government of the French
Republic engages not to acquire either territory or political influence
to the east of the same line.
2. The line of frontier shall start from the point where the boundary
between the Congo Free State and French territory meets the water-parting
between the watershed of the Nile and that of the Congo and its affluents.
It shall follow in principle that water-parting up to its intersection with
the 11th parallel of north latitude. From this point it shall be drawn
as far as the 15th parallel in such manner as to separate, in principle,
the Kingdom of Wadai from what constituted in 1882 the Province of Darfur;
but it shall in no case be so drawn as to pass to the west beyond the 21st
degree of longitude east of Greenwich (18 degrees 40' east of Paris),
or to the east beyond the 23rd degree of longitude east of Greenwich
(20 degrees 40' east of Paris).
3. It is understood, in principle, that to the north of the 15th parallel
the French zone shall be limited to the north-east and east by a line
which shall start from the point of intersection of the Tropic of Cancer
with the 16th degree of longitude east of Greenwich (18 degrees 40' east of Paris),
shall run thence to the south-east until it meets the 24th degree of
longitude east of Greenwich (21 degrees 40' east of Paris), and shall then follow
the 24th degree until it meets, to the north of the 15th parallel of
latitude, the frontier of Darfur as it shall eventually be fixed.
4. The two Governments engage to appoint Commissioners who shall be charged
to delimit on the spot a frontier-line in accordance with the indications
given in paragraph 2 of this Declaration. The result of their work shall be
submitted for the approbation of their respective Governments.
It is agreed that the provisions of Article IX of the Convention of the
14th of June, 1898, shall apply equally to the territories situated to the
south of the 14 degrees 20' parallel of north latitude, and to the north of
the 5th parallel of north latitude, between the 14 degrees 20' meridian of
longitude east of Greenwich (12th degree east of Paris) and the course
of the Upper Nile.

             Done at London, the 21st of March, 1899.


                                     (L.S.)    SALISBURY.
                                     (L.S.)    PAUL CAMBON.









Produced by Arjan Moraal, David Starner and the Online Distributed

Proofreading Team.



MADE-OVER DISHES

BY MRS. S. T. RORER

Author of Mrs. Rorer's New Cook Book, Philadelphia Cook Book, Bread and
Bread-Making, and other Valuable Works on Cookery.

Revised and Enlarged Edition




CONTENTS


Preface
Stock
Cooked Fish
Meat
  Beef--Uncooked
  Beef--Cooked
  Mutton--Uncooked
  Mutton--Cooked
  Chicken--Uncooked
  Chicken--Cooked
Game
Bread
Eggs
Potatoes
  Cold Boiled
Cheese
Sauces
Salads
Cereals
Vegetables
Fruits
Sour Milk and Cream




PREFACE


Wise forethought, which means economy, stands as the first of domestic
duties. Poverty in no way affects skill in the preparation of food. The
object of cooking is to draw out the proper flavor of each individual
ingredient used in the preparation of a dish, and render it more easy of
digestion. Admirable flavorings are given by the little leftovers of
vegetables that too often find their way into the garbage bucket.

Economical marketing does not mean the purchase of inferior articles at a
cheap price, but of a small quantity of the best materials found in the
market; these materials to be wisely and economically used. Small quantity
and no waste, just enough and not a piece too much, is a good rule to
remember. In roasts and steaks, however, there will be, in spite of
careful buying, bits left over, that, if economically used, may be
converted into palatable, sightly and wholesome dishes for the next day's
lunch or supper.

Never purchase the so-called tender meat for stews, Hamburg steaks or
soups; nor should you purchase a round or shoulder steak for broiling, nor
an old chicken for roasting. Select a fowl for a fricassee, a chicken for
roasting, and a so-called spring chicken for broiling. Each has its own
individual price and place.

Save for stock, every bone, whether beef, mutton, poultry or game, as well
as all the juices that are left in the meat carving dishes on the table,
and the water in which meats are boiled and in which certain vegetables
are boiled. Into this storehouse--for such a stock pot is--will go also
the tough ends from the rib roasts, which would become tasteless and dry
if roasted; the bits that are taken from the French chops; the bone that
is left on the plate from the sirloin steak; and every piece of the
carcass left on the general carving plate of all sorts of game and
poultry. After the meat has been taken from the roast, these bones will
also be used.




STOCK


In all good cooking there is a constant demand for a half pint or a pint
of stock. Brown sauce and tomato sauce, in fact, all meat sauces, are
decidedly better made from stock than water, and as it comes to every
household without the additional cost of a penny, there is no excuse
whatever for being without it. Save the bones collected on Saturday,
Sunday and Monday. Chicken and veal bones may be kept together; beef,
mutton and ham in another lot; one makes a white stock, the other brown.
If the quantity is small, put them all together. Crack the bones, put them
in the bottom of a large soup kettle, cover with cold water, bring slowly
to boiling point and skim. Push the kettle to the back part of the stove,
where the stock may simmer for at least three hours, then add an onion
into which you have stuck twelve cloves, a bay leaf, a few celery tops, or
a little celery seed, and a carrot cut into slices; simmer gently for
another hour and strain. Tuesdays and Saturdays are the best days for
making stock, as they are the days on which you have long, continuous
fires; Tuesdays for ironing purposes; Saturdays for bread baking; in this
way you will economize in coal, heat and time.

In making tomato soup, to each pint of tomatoes add a pint of this stock
instead of water; or the stock may be simply heated, nicely seasoned and
used as clear soup. By adding a little cooked rice or macaroni, you will
have a rice or a macaroni soup.

In cream soups, where stock takes the place of water, less milk gives
equal, perhaps better, results. For instance, in cream of celery soup,
cover the celery with cold stock instead of water, using a quart instead
of a pint of water, and then use only a pint of milk, having in the end
the same quantity of a much more tasty soup at a less cost. One soon
learns that all made-over dishes are more savory where stock is used in
place of water. If peas, beans or cabbage are being cooked, this water may
be added to that in which beef or mutton has been boiled, the whole
reduced carefully by rapid boiling, strained and put aside for use.




COOKED FISH


Canapes

Cold boiled fish makes excellent canapes. To each half pint of fish allow
six squares of toasted bread. If you have any cold boiled potatoes left
over, add milk to them, make them hot and put them into a pastry bag.
Decorate the edge of the toast with these mashed potatoes, using a small
star tube; put them back in the oven until light brown. Make the fish
into a creamed fish. Rub the butter and flour together, add a half pint of
milk, add the fish and a palatable seasoning of salt and pepper. Dish the
centers on top of the toast with this creamed fish and send at once to the
table. A very little fish here makes a good showing, and is one of the
nicest of the hot canapes.


Baked Sardines

After sardines have once been opened it is best to remove them from the
can and make them into some dish for the next meal. They may be broiled
and served on toast, or made with bread crumbs into sardine balls and
fried, or baked. To bake them, stir the oil from the can into a half
cupful of water, add a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, a half
teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper. Put the fish into a baking pan,
run them into the oven until very hot, then dish them, baste them with the
sauce and send them at once to the table.


Fish Croquettes

Any cold boiled fish that is left over may be made into croquettes. To
each cupful of the cold fish allow one level tablespoonful of butter, two
level tablespoonfuls of flour and a half cupful of milk. Rub the butter
and flour together, add the milk; when boiling take from the fire. Add to
the fish a level teaspoonful of salt, a dash of black pepper, a
tablespoonful of chopped parsley and a few drops of onion juice; mix this
carefully with the paste and turn out to cool. When cold, form into small
cylinders, dip in beaten egg and fry in deep hot fat.


Fish a la Creme

One pint of cold boiled fish, mixed with a half pint of white sauce. Turn
this into a baking dish and brown. Or when the two are carefully heated
together, serve in either ramekin dishes or in a border of browned mashed
potatoes.




MEAT


As meat is the most costly and extravagant of all articles of food, it
behooves the housewife to save all left-overs and work them over into
other dishes. The so-called inferior pieces--not inferior because they
contain less nourishment, but inferior because the demand for such meat is
less--should be used for all dishes that are chopped before cooking, as
Hamburg steaks, curry balls, kibbee, or for stews, ragouts, pot roasts and
various dishes where a sauce is used to hide the inferiority and ugliness
of the dish. We have no occasion here to spend money on good looks.

If one purchases meat for soup, the leg and shin are the better parts.
This, however, is not necessary in the ordinary family, as there are
always sufficient bones left over for daily stock. All meat left over from
beef tea, tasteless as it is, may be nicely seasoned and made into curries
or into pressed meat, giving again a nice dish for lunch or supper.
Remember, that where the flavoring of the beef has been drawn out into the
water, as in making beef tea, another decided flavor must be added to make
the made-over dish palatable. For this reason, curries, pressed meats,
served with either Worcestershire or tomato sauce, are chosen.

Cold mutton may be made into pilau, hashed on toast with tomato sauce,
hashed with caper sauce, made into escalloped mutton, barbecued mutton,
casserole, or macaroni timbale; all sightly dishes, quite handsome enough
to place before the choicest guest. Spiced meats, as beef _a la
mode_, may be served cold with cream horseradish sauce and aspic jelly.
If warm, they will be made into ragouts, or some form of dish with a brown
or tomato sauce. It is well to bear in mind that white meats will be
served with white or yellow sauces; dark meats with brown or tomato
sauces. The coarse tops of the sirloin steak, the tough end of the rump
steak, if broiled, cannot possibly be eaten, as the dry heat renders them
difficult of mastication. Cut them off before the steak is broiled, and
put them aside to use for Hamburg steaks, curry balls, timbale or
cannelon, making a new and sightly dish from that which would otherwise
have been thrown away.

If you use ham, and have had a piece boiled, after the even slices are
taken off, chip the remaining tender pieces for frizzled ham, making it as
frizzled beef is made. The bits around the bone that cannot possibly be
sliced, will be chopped and made into potted or deviled ham. Throw the
bone into the stock pot.

A meat chopper or grinder, which costs but a dollar and a half or two
dollars, will save its price in the utility of these scraps in less than a
month.

The water in which you boil a leg of mutton, chicken, turkey or a fresh
beef's tongue, or such vegetables as string beans, peas, rice, macaroni or
barley, put aside and use in place of plain water to cover the bones for
stock-making. The water in which cabbage is boiled should be saved alone
and used the next day for a soup Crecy; the flavor of the cabbage, with a
carrot that has been slightly browned in butter, makes a delightful soup
without the addition of meat.




BEEF--UNCOOKED


The uncooked tough bits or pieces of beef may be made into any of the
following dishes:


Kibbee

Chop uncooked tough meat very fine; put it twice through a grinder. To
each pound, allow a tablespoonful of grated onion, a tablespoonful of
chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of salt, just a dash of pepper, and a half
cup of toasted pinon nuts. Form into balls about the size of an egg,
stand in a baking pan, add a half pint of strained tomatoes, a
tablespoonful of butter, and bake slowly thirty minutes, basting three or
four times. If more than one pound of meat is used, all the ingredients
must be increased accordingly.


Hamburg Steaks

The genuine Hamburg steaks are rich in onion and very rich in fatty
matter, too much so to be wholesome; so we will modify them, that they may
be eaten even by dyspeptics or persons with weak digestion. Put twice
through a meat chopper the tough ends of steaks or bits of the round. To
each pound of this meat allow a half teaspoonful of celery seed, a
teaspoonful of grated onion. Form into thick even cakes, being sure that
the center and sides are the same thickness. These may now be broiled
over a clear fire, or under the gas lights in your gas broiler, or they
may be dropped into a thoroughly heated iron pan. As soon as browned on
one side, turn and brown the other. If the steaks are an inch thick, it
will take eight minutes for perfect cooking. An exceedingly satisfactory
way is to brown them quickly over a hot fire, then put the pan in the oven
and allow them to cook for five minutes. Dust with salt, season with a
little butter and pepper, and send to the table on a very hot dish; or
serve with brown or tomato sauce. If they have been cooked over the fire,
or in the oven, put a tablespoonful of butter into the pan in which they
were cooked, add a tablespoonful of flour, a half cup of stock, and a half
cup of strained tomatoes. When boiling, add a teaspoonful of salt, a dash
of pepper, and pour over the steaks.


Cannelon

Put twice through the meat chopper one pound of tough meat, season with a
teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, and, if you like, a little celery
seed or chopped celery top; take this chopped meat into your hands, and
form it into a roll about four inches in diameter and six inches long.
Roll this in a piece of oiled paper, put it in a baking pan, bake in a
quick oven thirty minutes, basting the paper with melted butter three or
four times. When done, remove the paper, dish the cannelon, and pour
around plain tomato sauce.


Brown stew

Cut any left-over pieces of uncooked tough meat into cubes of one inch.
Put a couple of tablespoonfuls of suet into a saucepan; when rendered out,
remove the cracklings. Dust the bits of meat with a tablespoonful of
flour, throw them into the hot suet, and shake until brown. Draw the meat
to one side, and add to the fat in the pan a second tablespoonful of
flour; mix, add one pint of water or stock, stir until boiling, add a
teaspoonful of salt, a bay leaf, slice of onion, a teaspoonful of browning
or kitchen bouquet; cover and simmer gently until the meat is tender,
about an hour and a half. The proportions given here are for one pound of
beef. This may be served plain, or in a border of rice, or with dumplings.
If dumplings, put a pint of flour into a bowl, add a teaspoonful of salt
and one of baking powder; mix thoroughly and add sufficient milk to just
moisten; drop by spoonfuls over the top of the stew, cover the saucepan
and cook for ten minutes. Do not lift cover during the ten minutes or the
dumplings will fall.


Beef Timbale

Chop fine any left-over tough bits of lean beef. Cook together for a
moment a gill of strained tomatoes and one cup of bread crumbs; add to the
meat, rub to a smooth paste, season with a quarter of a teaspoonful of
celery seed, a half teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper; mix, and
then stir in carefully the well-beaten whites of two eggs; fill into
custard cups, stand in a pan of boiling water, and cook in a moderate oven
twenty minutes. Serve with tomato sauce. This recipe is for one pound of
beef.




BEEF--COOKED


Ragout

Cut pieces of cold boiled or roasted beef into cubes of one inch; to each
quart of this allow two tablespoonfuls of butter, two of flour and a pint
of stock. Rub the butter and flour together, add the stock, stir until
boiling; add a tablespoonful of onion juice, a teaspoonful of browning or
kitchen bouquet, a teaspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of tomato catsup,
a tablespoonful of chopped parsley; add the meat; stand over the back part
of the stove until thoroughly hot; serve on a heated platter garnished
with triangular pieces of toasted bread. A few left-over olives,
mushrooms, or even a chopped truffle, may be added.


Bresleau

Chop sufficient cold cooked meat to make one pint, season it with a
teaspoonful of salt and a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper. Put a half
cup of stock or water, two tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs and a
tablespoonful of butter over the fire; when hot, add to it the meat; take
from the fire and stir in carefully two well-beaten eggs. Put this in
greased custard cups, stand them in a baking pan half filled with boiling
water, and bake in a moderate oven fifteen or twenty minutes; serve with
tomato sauce or sauce Bechamel.


Beef Croquettes

Chop sufficient cold cooked beef to make one pint; add to it a teaspoonful
of salt, a teaspoonful of onion juice, a dash of cayenne, a quarter of a
teaspoonful of pepper, and a grating of nutmeg. Put a half pint of milk
over the fire. Rub together one tablespoonful of butter and two
tablespoonfuls of flour, add them to the hot milk, stir until you have a
smooth thick paste; take from the fire; mix with it the meat, and turn out
to cool. When cold, form into croquettes. Beat one egg, add to it a
tablespoonful of warm water, and beat again. Dip the croquettes first into
this, then roll them in bread crumbs, and fry them in smoking hot fat.
They may be served plain or with tomato sauce.


Beef Steak Pudding

Cut cold cooked steak into cubes of a half inch. To each pint of these
allow a half pint of milk, six tablespoonfuls of flour, two eggs, and two
tablespoonfuls of chopped suet. Put the flour into a bowl; beat the eggs,
add to them the milk, then add gradually to the flour; make perfectly
smooth. Cover the bottom of a baking dish with a layer of the batter, put
in the bits of steak, sprinkle over the chopped suet, then a dusting of
salt and pepper, and, if you like, a few drops of onion juice; now put
over the remaining quantity of the batter, and bake in a moderately quick
oven an hour and a half.


Potato Dumplings

Take any pieces of cold cooked meat, chop them fine, season carefully with
salt, pepper, chopped parsley or celery. To each pint allow two
tablespoonfuls of melted butter. For the crust you may use left-over cold
mashed potatoes; if so, add a little milk and stir them over the fire
until smooth and hot. If potatoes are boiled for the purpose, add salt,
butter and milk, and beat them until light. Line to the depth of one inch,
a baking dish, put the meat in the center, cover the top with mashed
potatoes, smooth, brush with milk and bake in a moderate oven a half hour.


Gobbits

Scrape and cut into fancy pieces one good-sized carrot and one turnip. Put
these into a saucepan, cover with a pint of stock, and cook slowly until
the vegetables are tender. Have ready, cut into cubes of one inch,
sufficient cold cooked beef to make a quart; add it to the vegetables,
simmer a few minutes until the meat is hot; have ready also one cup of
rice that has been boiled thirty minutes in clear water, drained and
dried. Arrange this in a border around the meat dish. Put two
tablespoonfuls of butter and flour into a saucepan; mix. Drain the liquor
from the meat and vegetables, which should now measure one pint; if not,
add sufficient stock to make a pint; add this to the butter and flour, and
stir until boiling. Dish the meat and vegetables in the centre of the rice
border. Take the sauce from the fire, add a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of
pepper and the yolks of two eggs. Reheat for just an instant, strain over
the meat mixture, dust with chopped parsley, and serve at once.


Beef Fritters

Chop sufficient cold cooked beef to make one pint; add to it a teaspoonful
of salt, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper. Beat two eggs until
light, add to them a half pint of water or stock; stir into this one and a
half cups of flour, beat until smooth, add a teaspoonful of baking powder
and the meat. Drop this by spoonfuls into smoking hot fat; cook about
three minutes, drain on brown paper, and serve either on a folded napkin,
or in a dish with tomato sauce.


Minced Beef on Toast

Take the meat from between the bones of a rib roast, or any little bits
that would not be serviceable in other dishes, chop them fine, and to each
pint, allow one tablespoonful of butter, one of flour and a half pint of
tomatoes or stock. Mix the butter and flour together, then add the
tomatoes strained or stock; when boiling add the meat, and a palatable
seasoning of salt and pepper. Stand the mixture over hot water until
smoking hot, and serve on squares of toasted bread.


Barbecue of Cold Beef

Cut cold-roasted or boiled beef into thin slices. Put into your saucepan
two tablespoonfuls of butter, two tablespoonfuls of catsup and two
tablespoonfuls of sherry; stir until hot; drop the slices of beef into
this, cover the saucepan, shake occasionally for a minute, until the beef
is smoking hot, and send at once to the table. This is exceedingly nice
made and served from a chafing dish. This dish may be made by omitting the
sherry and using a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, a teaspoonful of
mushroom catsup and two tablespoonfuls of stock.


Salt Beef Hash No. 1

Cold cooked corned beef is best made into hash. Chop sufficient to make
one pint. Chop the same quantity of cold boiled potatoes; mix the two
together, put them into a saucepan, add a half pint of stock, a
tablespoonful of butter, teaspoonful of onion juice and a quarter of a
teaspoonful of black or white pepper. Stir carefully and constantly until
the mixture reaches the boiling point. Serve at once on buttered toast.


Salt Beef Hash No. 2

Chop enough cold cooked corned beef to make a pint; chop the same quantity
of cold boiled potatoes; mix the two together. Put them into a stewing
pan, add one pint of stock; simmer for just a moment; take from the fire,
add two eggs well beaten, a dash of pepper; turn the mixture into a baking
dish and bake in a quick oven twenty minutes.


Rechauffee of Beef

Cut any left-over cold beef into thin slices. Cut into slices three cold
boiled potatoes. Peel two tomatoes, cut them into halves, squeeze out the
seeds, and then cut the tomatoes into small bits. Chop one good sized
onion. Put a layer of tomato in the bottom of a baking dish, then beef,
then a seasoning of onion, salt and pepper, and if you have it, a little
chopped celery, then potatoes, then again tomatoes, beef, and so continue
until you have used the materials, having the last layer tomatoes. Dust
the top with bread crumbs, put over a few bits of butter and bake a half
hour in a moderately quick oven.


Steak Pudding

Cut any cold left-over steak into thin slices, and cut these slices into
bits one inch long. Put one quart of flour in a bowl, and add to it one
cupful of chopped uncooked suet. Chop the suet and flour together for a
minute, add a level teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of black pepper,
and sufficient cold water to just moisten. Take the dough on the board and
roll it out into a sheet; make it a little larger than an ordinary pie
dish. Season the bits of meat, put them on one-half the sheet, lay over
the top twelve good fat oysters, brush the under half of the dough with
the white of egg or water; fold over the other half and make two or three
holes in the top. Put it in a cheese cloth and steam for two hours. Remove
the cloth, brush the pudding with the yolk of the egg and bake in a quick
oven a half hour.


Panada of Beef

Chop sufficient cold cooked beef to make one pint; season it with a
teaspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley and a dash of
pepper. Put this in the bottom of a baking dish. Crush six Uneeda
biscuits, pour over them a half pint of milk, let them stand a minute or
two, add one egg, well beaten, a half teaspoonful of salt and a
saltspoonful of pepper. Pour this over the beef and bake in a moderate
oven twenty minutes to a half hour.

Other meats may be substituted for beef.




MUTTON--UNCOOKED


Tough pieces of uncooked mutton may be put twice through the meat chopper
and used for curry balls or for stuffing for tomatoes or egg plant; in
fact, in almost any way that one would serve uncooked beef. Having fewer
pieces of uncooked scrap mutton than of beef, we are less accustomed to
seeing them used.


Curry Balls

Put any pieces of tough uncooked mutton twice through the meat chopper;
season the meat with salt, pepper and onion juice. Form into little balls
the size of an English walnut. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter into a
saucepan; when hot, throw the balls into the butter, and shake until
carefully browned. Lift them from the saucepan, and to the butter in the
pan add a teaspoonful of curry, a tablespoonful of flour, mix and add a
half pint of stock; stir carefully until boiling; pour this over the
balls, cook, slowly for twenty minutes, add two tablespoonfuls of lemon
juice and serve in a border of rice. Cocoanut milk may be used instead of
stock.




MUTTON--COOKED


While mutton belongs to the red meats, when carefully cooked it may be
used in many ways in which you would use chicken or veal. Capers and
tomato, with a slight flavoring of mint, are more agreeable with mutton
than with almost any other meats.


Bobotee

Chop sufficient cold boiled mutton to make a pint. Put two tablespoonfuls
of butter and one onion sliced into a saucepan; stir until the onion is
slightly brown; then add a half pint of stock or milk and four
tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs. Stand this on the back of the stove for
about five minutes while you blanch and chop fine a dozen almonds. Add
these to the meat, then add a teaspoonful of curry powder, and a
teaspoonful of salt. Beat three eggs until light, stir them into the meat,
then turn the whole into the saucepan. Rub the bottom of the baking dish
first with a clove of garlic, then sprinkle over a tablespoonful of lemon
juice and put here and there a few bits of butter; put on this the
mixture, and bake in a quick oven twenty minutes. Serve in the dish in
which it is baked, and pass with it plain boiled rice.


Boudins

Chop sufficient cold cooked mutton to make a pint. Put a half cup of
stock, two tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs and a tablespoonful of butter
over the fire. When hot, take from the fire, add the meat and three eggs
well beaten; add a teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper. Put the
mixture into greased custard cups, stand in a baking pan half filled with
boiling water, and cook in a moderate oven fifteen to twenty minutes.
Serve with sauce Bechamel. The bottom of the cups may be garnished with
chopped mushrooms, capers, or chopped truffles, or dusted thickly with
chopped parsley.


Klopps

Chop sufficient cold boiled mutton to make a pint; add to it a half pint
of bread crumbs and sufficient white of egg to bind the whole together;
add a teaspoonful of salt and a dash of white pepper. Form into balls the
size of English walnuts; drop into a kettle of boiling water; pull the
kettle to one side of the fire where it cannot possibly boil, and cook the
klopps slowly for five or six minutes. When done they will float on the
surface. Lift, drain carefully, put on to a heated dish, pour over cream
celery or cream oyster sauce, and serve with them peas and boiled rice.


Curry of Mutton

Put two tablespoonfuls of butter and one sliced onion into a pan; cook
slowly until the onion is perfectly tender; add one clove of garlic
mashed, a teaspoonful of curry powder and a teaspoonful of turmeric; mix
thoroughly, add a half pint of stock, or, better, cocoanut milk; stir
until boiling, add one quart of cold cooked mutton chopped fine; heat
thoroughly, add a tablespoonful of lemon juice, and pour at once into a
platter that has been garnished with boiled rice.


Mutton with Anchovy

Chop sufficient cold boiled mutton to make one pint; mash fine three
anchovies. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter into a saucepan, add one
sliced onion, cook until the onion is soft and yellow, add a clove of
garlic mashed, add to this the anchovies and a half pint of stock; simmer
gently for fifteen minutes, and press through a sieve. Add a tablespoonful
of capers, two or three leaves of mint that have been bruised, and the
mutton chopped fine. Heat over boiling water for fifteen minutes, and
serve on squares of toasted bread. This may be served plain or the top of
each piece may be capped with a carefully poached egg.


Pilau

Cut into bits any pieces of cold cooked mutton; put them into a saucepan,
cover with water, add a grated onion, a bay leaf and two or three cardamom
seeds. Sprinkle over a half cup of rice that has been carefully washed;
cover the kettle and simmer slowly until the rice is tender. Dish the
mutton, putting the rice over the top, cover the whole with a nicely made
tomato sauce, and send at once to the table.


Mutton Salad

Any pieces of cold-roasted or boiled mutton may be cut into dice and used
for an ordinary mutton salad. At serving time arrange this neatly on
lettuce leaves, or any accessible green; season with salt and pepper, and
cover with mayonnaise dressing to which has been added a tablespoonful of
capers.

Where celery, lettuce or other fresh greens cannot be procured, canned
asparagus may be mixed with the mutton or may be served with it as a
garnish; giving an exceedingly agreeable accompaniment. Where asparagus
cannot be obtained, a can of peas may be drained, washed, drained again,
and added to the mutton before it is mixed with the mayonnaise dressing,
or the mutton may be mixed with mayonnaise and filled into tomatoes that
have been peeled and the centers scooped out. Stand each on a little nest
of lettuce leaves or on a bunch of cress, and garnish the top with capers.


French Lamb Stew

1 quart of bits of cold left-over lamb or mutton
1 pint of green peas
1 quart of water
3 stalks of mint
1 teaspoonful of onion juice
1 teaspoonful of salt
1 saltspoonful of pepper

Put the lamb, water and all the seasoning into a saucepan. Shell and wash
the peas, put them over the top, cover the pan and bring quickly to a
boil, lift the lid, and boil rapidly twenty minutes until the peas are
tender. Rub together the butter and flour, stir them carefully into the
stew, bring again to boiling point and serve.


Lamb Stew with Tomatoes

Follow the preceding recipe, using a quart of strained tomatoes in place
of a quart of water.




CHICKEN--UNCOOKED


In purchasing a chicken for timbale, select a large one, but not an old
fowl. After the chicken has been drawn, remove the white meat, which is
used uncooked for timbales. The dark meat may be cooked at once and
utilized for boudins, croquettes, salad, cecils, creamed hash, or served
on toast with sauce Bordelaise, or used in chafing dish next day. Or if
you prefer to use it raw, devil the legs and use the bones for soup.


Timbale

Chop fine the uncooked white meat of a chicken; this should weigh a half
pound. Then rub it with the back of a wooden spoon against the side of a
bowl until perfectly smooth. Put one cup of white bread crumbs and a half
cup of milk over the fire; stir until boiling; when cold, rub this
thoroughly with the meat, and press it through an ordinary flour sieve.
Stir into it carefully the well-beaten whites of five eggs, add a
teaspoonful of salt, a dash of white pepper; fill into greased timbale
cups, stand in a baking pan of boiling water, cover with oiled paper, and
bake in a moderate oven fifteen to twenty minutes. The bottoms of the cups
may be garnished with chopped truffle, chopped mushrooms, chopped parsley,
or nicely cooked green peas. Serve with the timbales either a plain cream
sauce or a cream mushroom sauce. Peas are the usual accompaniment.

Or the timbale molds may be lined with this mixture, and the centers
filled with creamed mushrooms; put enough of the timbale mixture over the
top to hold in the stuffing; they will then be cooked and served in the
usual manner.


Deviled Chicken Legs

Carefully remove the bones from the legs of an uncooked chicken. To a half
cup of bread crumbs add twelve chopped almonds, two tablespoonfuls of
toasted pinon nuts, a tablespoonful of parsley, a half teaspoonful of salt
and a dash of cayenne; moisten with two tablespoonfuls of butter. Stuff
this into the spaces from which you have taken the bones, tie the legs top
and bottom to keep in the stuffing. Place the bones from the carcass of
the chicken in the soup kettle, cover with cold water, and when the water
reaches boiling point place the legs on top of the bones and cook
continuously for two hours. They may be served hot with sauce, or cold,
cut into thin slices garnished with aspic.


English Chicken Balls

Chop fine the dark meat left over from timbales, add a half can of finely
chopped mushrooms, a teaspoonful of salt, a half teaspoonful of pepper, a
tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a dozen blanched and finely chopped
almonds and one raw egg; mix thoroughly and form into balls the size of an
English walnut. Arrange these over the bottom of a saucepan, cover with
stock, add a bay leaf, a slice of onion and of carrot; cook slowly a half
to three-quarters of an hour; drain, saving the stock. Dish the balls in
the center of a platter, put around the edge a row of potato bullets,
outside of that small triangles of toast. Put a tablespoonful of butter
and one of flour into a saucepan; mix, add a half pint of stock in which
the balls were cooked, stir until boiling, take from the fire, add the
yolk of one egg beaten with two tablespoonfuls of cream; add a half
teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper; strain this over the balls and
serve.




CHICKEN--COOKED


The remains of cold chicken or turkey may be used in precisely the same
manner, or made into croquettes, using the same rule as for beef
croquettes. With an accompaniment of mayonnaise of celery, or mayonnaise
of tomato, they make an extremely good luncheon dish. For an evening
entertainment they may be simply garnished with cooked peas. Meat
croquettes are usually made into pyramid forms; they may, however, be made
into cylinders. Boudins of chicken or turkey are also exceedingly nice.


Creamed Hash on Toast

This is one of the tastiest of all the warmed-over chicken dishes. Chop
the chicken fine, and to each pint allow one tablespoonful of butter, one
of flour and a half pint of milk. Rub the butter and flour together, add
the milk, stir over the fire until boiling, season the meat with a
teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper, add to the milk sauce, and stir
over hot water for fifteen minutes. The flavoring may be changed by adding
three or four chopped mushrooms, or, if you have it, a chopped truffle;
but it is exceedingly good plain. Heap this on squares of nicely toasted
bread, serve at once, or you may garnish the tops with carefully poached
eggs.


Casserole

Wash a half cup of rice; throw it into boiling water, boil for twenty
minutes, drain, add a half cup of milk, a tablespoonful of butter, a level
teaspoonful of salt and a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper; stir until
you have a rather smooth thick paste. Brush custard cups, line them to the
depth of a half inch with this rice mixture; make a plain milk sauce, as
in preceding recipe, and add a pint of seasoned chicken. Fill the space in
the rice cups with this cream mixture, put over a covering of rice, stand
the cups in a pan of boiling water, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty
to twenty-five minutes. Turn these carefully on a heated dish, pour
around cream sauce and serve. They may be garnished with green peas,
mushrooms or truffles. While this is an exceedingly economical dish it is
at the same time an elegant one.


Indian Hash

Chop fine sufficient cold-roasted duck, chicken, or turkey to make one
pint. Cut a good-sized onion into very thin slices. Pare, core, and chop
fine one apple. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter in a saucepan, add the
apple and the onion; toss until brown, then add not more than an eighth of
a teaspoonful of powdered mace, a half teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful
of curry powder, a tablespoonful of flour, a teaspoonful of sugar; mix and
add a half pint of stock or water; now add the meat, stir constantly until
smoking hot, then stand over hot water, covering closely for twenty
minutes. Add two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice and serve in a border of
rice.


Mock Terrapin or a la Newburg

Pieces of cold-roasted chicken, turkey or duck may be used for making
terrapin or a la Newburg. Cut the meat into pieces of fairly good size;
measure, and to each pint of this allow a half pint of sauce; rub together
two tablespoonfuls of butter and one of flour. Rub to a smooth paste the
hard boiled yolks of three eggs; add to the butter and flour a gill and a
half (three-quarters of a cup) of milk; stir until smoking hot. Do not
let the mixture boil; then add this a little at a time to the yolks of the
eggs, rubbing until you have a perfectly smooth golden sauce; press this
through a sieve. Before beginning the sauce, sprinkle the chicken with
four tablespoonfuls of sherry or Madeira, the latter preferable. Add the
chicken to the sauce, stir until each piece is thoroughly covered; add a
half teaspoonful of salt, just a drop of extract of nutmeg or a grating of
nutmeg, an eighth of a spoon of white pepper (black pepper, of course, may
be used); cover and stand over hot water, stirring occasionally until the
mixture is smoking hot.


Chicken Supreme

This may be made from either chicken or turkey cut into dice; add an equal
quantity of canned mushrooms; for instance, to one pint of cold chicken,
add one can of mushrooms. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter and two of
flour in a saucepan; mix without browning, then add two cups (one pint) of
chicken stock; stir constantly until boiling, add two tablespoonfuls of
thick cream, and the yolks of four eggs; strain, add the chicken and
mushrooms, a level teaspoonful of salt, a quarter of a teaspoonful of
white pepper, ten drops of celery extract or just a little celery seed.
Stand this mixture over hot water, watching carefully until it is
thoroughly heated; remember that any boiling will curdle the egg. Serve
this on a heated dish either in a border of rice or garnished with squares
of toasted bread. This mixture is also served in bread pates, or it may be
served in chicken muffin cases.


Chicken Cutlets

Chop cold cooked chicken or turkey very fine; to each pint allow a half
can of mushrooms chopped fine. Put one tablespoonful of butter and two of
flour into a saucepan, mix, and add a half pint of chicken stock. When
smooth and thick take from the fire, add the yolks of two eggs, the
chicken and mushrooms, a teaspoonful of salt, quarter of a teaspoonful of
pepper, a teaspoonful of onion juice, a grating of nutmeg and a
tablespoonful of chopped parsley; stir over the fire for a moment; turn
out to cool; when cold form into cutlet-shaped croquettes, dip in egg and
bread crumbs, and fry in smoking hot fat. These may be served plain, with
a garnish of peas, or they may be served with sauce Bechamel.


Duck Bordelaise

Portions of cold duck may be cut into convenient pieces, sprinkled with
wine, about four tablespoonfuls to the pint, and allowed to stand while
you make sauce Bordelaise. Put one tablespoonful of butter and one of
flour into a saucepan; mix, add a teaspoonful of browning or kitchen
bouquet and a half pint of stock; stir until boiling, add a tablespoonful
of grated onion, a half teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper and, if you
have it, a tablespoonful of finely-chopped ham; cook for five minutes and
strain; add three or four fresh mushrooms or a half dozen canned mushrooms
and the duck. Stand over boiling water until the mixture is thoroughly
heated. Send to the table garnished with triangles of toasted bread. A few
stoned olives or sliced olives may be added in the place of the mushrooms,
and you would then have salmi of duck.




GAME


Bits of cold broiled or roasted game may be chopped very fine, rubbed to a
smooth paste either in a bowl or mortar. To each half pint of this mixture
allow two tablespoonfuls of brown sauce thoroughly rubbed with the game,
and the unbeaten white of one egg; press the whole mixture through an
ordinary flour sieve; then stir in the well-beaten whites of two eggs,
four mushrooms chopped almost to a powder, and a seasoning of salt and
pepper. Fill this into little greased molds or cups; the cups may be
garnished with chopped truffle or mushrooms, or served plain. Fill in the
mixture, stand the cups in a baking pan half filled with boiling water;
cook in a moderate oven twenty minutes. The little bomb-shaped molds are
the better sort to use for these. Serve with brown sauce either plain or
flavored with mushrooms.




BREAD


The better way is to cut just sufficient bread for each meal so that there
will be really no left-overs. If, however, a few slices are accidentally
left, put them aside in a can or jar, never in the regular bread box with
the bread; one or two slices will invariably be missed until sufficiently
old to mold and contaminate the remaining quantity of bread in the box,
and then, too, they are more apt to accumulate in this way than in a
separate box. The neater pieces may be used for toast for breakfast or
lunch or supper. The next best pieces use for bread and butter custard;
the crusts dry, roll and put aside to be ready for breading articles to be
fried, or for escalloped dishes. In this way every piece, no matter what
its condition, will be utilized.


Bread and Butter Custard

Beat two eggs, without separating, until light, add four tablespoonfuls of
sugar and a pint of milk, mix and add a grating of nutmeg; turn into an
ordinary baking dish, cover the top with buttered bread, butter side up;
bake in a moderate oven just as you would a cup custard, until you can put
a spoon handle down in the center of the custard and it will come out free
from milk.


Little Puddings a la Grand Belle

Roll slices of stale bread into fine crumbs. Brush small custard cups, or
a border mold with melted butter, sprinkle over a few currants or raisins,
or any fruit that you may have left over. Fill the cups with crumbs. Beat
three eggs, without separating, until light; add three tablespoonfuls of
sugar, a teaspoonful of vanilla and a pint of milk. Pour this carefully
over the bread crumbs, let them stand for about five minutes until the
mixture has been soaked up and the bread crumbs soft; then stand in a pan
of boiling water, cover with oiled paper and cook in the oven a half hour.
Turn out and serve hot with egg sauce.


Bread Croquettes

Rub sufficient stale bread to make one quart of crumbs; add four
tablespoonfuls of sugar, a half cup of cleaned currants, or any fruit that
you have left over, and a grating of nutmeg; sprinkle over a teaspoonful
of vanilla, and add sufficient beaten eggs (about three) to moisten the
crumbs. Form into small cylinder-shaped croquettes, dip in egg and roll in
bread crumbs and fry in smoking hot fat. Serve hot with sugar sauce.


Bread Muffins

Cover a quart of bits of bread that have been broken apart, with one pint
of milk; soak for fifteen minutes, then with a spoon beat until you have a
smooth paste; add the yolks of three eggs, a tablespoonful of melted
butter and one cup of flour that has been sifted with a heaping
teaspoonful of baking powder. Fold in carefully the well-beaten whites of
the eggs, and bake in muffin pans in a quick oven about twenty minutes.

Muffins left from breakfast may be pulled apart and toasted for lunch or
supper. Pieces of stale sponge cake, in fact, any stale cake may be used
for cabinet puddings, for cream puddings, or for croquettes.




EGGS


The soft boiled eggs that are left from breakfast will be at once hard
boiled, put into the refrigerator, and when four have accumulated, use
them for Beauregard eggs, a la Newburg dishes or garnishes. Poached eggs
that are left over may be dropped at once into boiling water, cooked
slowly until perfectly hard, and put aside for chopping, to use as a
garnish for a curry or some vegetable dish with which they will nicely
blend.

The tablespoonful or two of stewed tomatoes left in the dish from dinner
will be put aside to use for tomato omelet, or they may be added to the
roasted beef gravy for dinner, converting a plain homely gravy into one of
better flavor. The half cup of peas may be added to to-morrow's consomme,
or used as a garnish for the breakfast omelet. The green portions of
celery will be put aside for stewing; the tender white part for serving
raw; while the leaves and roots will be used for flavoring soups and
sauces.

The yolk of egg left over, if put into a cup or saucer will, in less than
two hours, become hard, dry and useless. This same yolk dropped into a cup
half filled with cold water will keep for several days, and may be used
for mayonnaise or added to a sauce. When needed, it may be carefully
lifted with a spoon and used the same as a fresh yolk.


Whites of Eggs

The yolks of eggs are quite easily disposed of, as sauces frequently call
for the yolk of one or two eggs; then they may be used for mayonnaise
dressing, or added to various dishes. The whites of eggs, however,
accumulate. One of the ways of getting hard-boiled yolks, without wasting
the whites, is to separate the white and the yolk before the egg is
cooked; drop the yolk down into a kettle of boiling water; then stand on
the back part of the stove for fifteen or twenty minutes until it is hard.
The yolk will cook in this way just as well as with the white in the
shell. Now, you have the uncooked whites, which may be used for a simple
white cake, apple float, souffles, plain or with fruit.


Beauregard Eggs

Separate the whites and yolks of five hard-boiled eggs, press through an
ordinary fruit press, or chop very fine. Make a half pint of cream sauce;
when boiling, add the whites of the eggs. Have ready on a heated platter
five squares of toasted bread; heap the white sauce over these squares,
dust the top with the yolks of the eggs, then with a little salt and
pepper, and send at once to the table.


Egg Croquettes

Put five hard-boiled eggs through a vegetable press, or chopper. Put one
tablespoonful of butter and two of flour into a saucepan, add a half pint
of milk, stir until boiling, add a half cup of stale, unbrowned bread
crumbs, a teaspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a dash
of pepper and a half teaspoonful of onion juice; add the eggs, mix and
turn out to cool. When cold form into cutlets, dip in egg and then in
bread crumbs and fry in smoking hot fat. Serve with plain cream sauce.
These with peas make an exceedingly nice luncheon dish.


Gold Cake

One frequently has four or five yolks left after having used the whites
for some light dish, as mock charlotte. Beat a half cupful of butter to a
cream, add gradually one cupful of sugar. When very, very light, add the
yolks of the eggs and beat for ten or fifteen minutes; then add one cupful
of water, and two and a half cupfuls of flour, sifted with three level
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Beat thoroughly, and bake in a small round
or square pan.


German Slaw

This will use the yolks of two eggs and any little sour cream that may be
left over. Shred the cabbage and soak it in cold water, changing the
water once or twice. When crisp, wring it perfectly dry in a towel. Beat
the yolks of two eggs, add a half cupful of sour cream, four
tablespoonfuls of vinegar; stir this over the fire until it thickens. Take
from the fire, add a half teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper; mix it
with the cabbage and turn it into the serving dish. This quantity of
dressing will be quite sufficient for about one quart of cabbage.


Apple Snow

In making sauce Hollandaise or mayonnaise one always has quite a quantity
of the left-over whites. These may be made into various sponges, or used
for fruit snow. Beat the whites of four or five eggs until light, then
add two level tablespoonfuls of sifted powdered sugar to the white of each
egg and beat until dry and glossy. Grate into this one tart apple, fold it
quickly, float it on a little dish of good milk or cream, and send it at
once to the table. If you have one or two little stale cakes, or a bit of
sponge cake, stale, grate it, dust the top, and if you have just a little
jelly, you may dot it here and there with the jelly. This must be made
just before the dinner hour, or the apple will lose its color. Grated
pear, or two or three peaches pressed through a sieve, or one or two soft
bananas may be beaten and used in the place of the apple.




POTATOES


Cold baked potatoes will be converted at once into stuffed potatoes, and
put aside for rewarming. Two cold boiled potatoes will make a comfortable
dish of hashed browned potatoes, or may be served with cream sauce or au
gratin.


Stuffed Potatoes

Baked potatoes that are left over must be made into stuffed potatoes
before they are heavy and cold. At the close of the meal at which they
were first served, cut the potatoes directly into halves, scoop out the
inside portion, put it through an ordinary vegetable press, or mash it
fine; add a little butter, salt, pepper and sufficient milk to make a
light mixture; stand this over hot water and beat until light and smooth.
Put it back into the shells, and stand them aside in a cold place. When
ready to serve, brush the top with beaten egg, run them into a quick oven
until hot and golden brown.


Potato Croquettes

Cold mashed potatoes may be made into croquettes by adding to each pint
four tablespoonfuls of heated milk, the yolks of two eggs, a tablespoonful
of chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of grated onion, a quarter of a
teaspoonful of pepper; stir over the fire until the mixture is thoroughly
heated; form into cylinder-shaped croquettes, dip in egg and rolled bread
crumbs and fry in smoking hot fat. Potato croquettes are more difficult to
fry than meat croquettes; the fat must be at least 365 degrees (Fahr.) and
the rolling carefully done.


Potato Puff

The above mixture may have the whites of the eggs beaten and stirred in,
and baked in the oven; serve in the same dish in which it was baked.


Potato Roses for Garnishing

Cold boiled potatoes may have added sufficient milk to make a soft paste;
stir it over the fire until smooth; put it into your pastry bag, using a
star tube; hold the bag firmly, pressing out on greased papers these
little potato roses; brown in the oven and use them for garnishing fish
dishes.


Potato Custards

Stir two cups of cold mashed potatoes, with four tablespoonfuls of milk,
over the fire until they are warm and light; take from the fire and add
three eggs beaten light with four tablespoonfuls of sugar. Add a
teaspoonful of vanilla, stir in carefully a pint and a half of milk. Put
this mixture into greased custard cups; stand in a baking pan of boiling
water and bake in a moderate oven until set, about twenty or thirty
minutes.

Where a little cooked meat and, at the same time, mashed potatoes, are
left over, the meat may be seasoned with a savory sauce, turned into a
baking dish, the mashed potatoes slightly thinned with hot milk and then
slightly thickened with flour, and used as a crust. This makes what we
call a potato pie. Four tablespoonfuls of milk and four of flour would be
a good allowance to each cupful of mashed potatoes.




POTATOES--COLD BOILED


Hashed Brown Potatoes

Chop two cold boiled potatoes rather fine, season with salt and pepper.
Put a tablespoonful of butter in an ordinary saute pan; when hot, put in
the potatoes, smoothing and patting them down; stand over a moderate fire
and allow them to cook undisturbed for at least eight minutes; then with a
limber knife fold over one half as you would an omelet; stand again over
the fire for about three minutes and turn at once on to a heated dish.
These are exceedingly difficult to make. Directions must be carefully
followed; the butter must be hot when you put in the potatoes; the whole
must be packed firmly down so that it will not break when turning out.


O'Brien Potatoes

Chop one green pepper rather fine. Chop sufficient red pepper to make two
tablespoonfuls. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter in a frying pan, add the
peppers, which must be sweet; shake until the peppers are soft, cover over
four cold boiled potatoes, chopped rather fine, that have been seasoned
with a teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper. Press them down as you
do hashed brown potatoes, let them stand for a moment, stir them up, mix
well, without breaking, and press down again. Let these stand until brown,
fold over as you would an omelet and turn out on a heated platter.


Potatoes au Gratin

To each four good-sized cold potatoes chopped fine allow a pint of cream
sauce, to which you have added four tablespoonfuls of grated cheese; mix
the potatoes with the sauce, turn them into a baking dish, dust with
cheese, and brown in a quick oven.


Scalloped Potatoes

Cut cold boiled potatoes into dice; to each pint allow a half pint of
cream sauce. Put a layer of the sauce in the bottom of a baking dish, put
in the potatoes, season with salt and pepper, cover with another layer of
cream sauce, dust the top with bread crumbs, dot here and there little
bits of butter, and bake in a moderate oven until a golden brown.


Potatoes in Milk

Cold boiled potatoes may be cut into slices and cooked in milk in a double
boiler until the whole is thoroughly heated; season with salt and pepper
and serve.


Sweet Potatoes

Cold boiled or roasted sweet potatoes may be mashed while warm, seasoned
with salt, pepper and butter and formed at once into croquettes; dip and
fry the same as white potato croquettes.


Lyonnaise Potatoes

Cut cold boiled potatoes into small dice; to each pint allow a
tablespoonful of butter; put the butter in an ordinary saute pan, melt it,
add a tablespoonful of chopped onion, shake until the onion is golden
brown; throw in the potatoes, shake or toss over a hot fire until each
piece is slightly browned; sprinkle lightly with a half teaspoonful of
salt, a tablespoonful of parsley, and a dash of pepper; dish and serve.


Broiled Potatoes

Cut cold boiled potatoes into thin slices lengthwise; dip each slice in a
little melted butter, dust it with salt and pepper, and broil it over a
clear fire until a golden brown. For dyspeptics it is better to broil the
potato first and add the butter after, as the heating of the butter
renders it indigestible. Sweet potatoes may be broiled after this same
rule, and would be less greasy than when fried.


Vegetable Browned Hash

Chop two or three cold boiled potatoes rather fine, add an equal quantity
of chopped carrot, and either string beans or peas, which ever you happen
to have left over. You can add to this a cupful of stewed cabbage. Put
two tablespoonfuls of butter into a shallow frying pan, mix the
vegetables, put them into the butter, let them stand over a slow fire
until they are browned thoroughly and crusted in the bottom. Fold one half
carefully over the other, and press the two halves together; cook just a
moment longer, and turn out on to a heated platter. This is a nice dish to
serve with omelet and tomato sauce for luncheon or supper.




CHEESE


The shells of Edam, or pine-apple cheese, after all the available cheese
has been scooped out, will be used as a baking dish for stewed spaghetti
or macaroni or rice. If care is taken, one shell may be used for three or
four bakings. Boil the macaroni in plain water until tender; then drain,
cut it into small pieces and add it to cream sauce. Pour this into the
cheese shell, stand the shell on a piece of oiled paper in a baking pan
and run into a moderate oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. Lift the shell
carefully, put it on to a heated dish, and send at once to the table.
After the macaroni has been taken out, the shell will be cleaned and put
aside in a cold place for the next baking. There is just enough cheese
imparted by the toasting of this shell to give ah agreeable flavor to the
macaroni. Plain boiled rice may be heaped into the shells and steamed, or
baked in the oven for a few moments.

Any scraps or bits of common cheese, when too hard and dry to serve on the
table should be grated, put into a jar and put aside for cheese balls to
serve with lettuce, cheese souffle, for baked macaroni, or spaghetti, or
for croquettes, cheese sauce, or Duchess soup.


Cheese Souffle

Put one cup of stale bread crumbs with a gill of milk over the fire for
just a moment; take from the fire, add the yolks of three eggs, six
tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, a half teaspoonful of salt and a dash of
red pepper; stir in the well-beaten whites of the eggs; put into
individual baking dishes; bake in a quick oven about eight minutes and
send at once to the table.


Cheese Balls

Grate or chop sufficient common cheese to make a half pint; add to it one
pint of stale bread crumbs, a half teaspoonful of salt, a dash of red
pepper and the whites of two eggs slightly beaten. Form these into small
balls the size of an English walnut; dip in egg and then in bread crumbs
and fry in smoking hot fat. These may also be made into small
cylinder-shaped croquettes, and served with cream sauce.


Duchess Soup

Put two tablespoonfuls of butter and a sliced onion in a saucepan; cook
until the onion is soft and yellow; add to this two tablespoonfuls of
flour, mix, and then add one quart of milk, a level teaspoonful of salt
and a palatable seasoning of red pepper. Add six tablespoonfuls of grated
cheese; stir in a double boiler until it is smoking hot; press through a
fine sieve; reheat and send at once to the table.


Cheese Pudding

Toast slices of stale bread until a golden brown and crisp to the center.
This is best done in the oven. Put a layer of this toasted bread in the
bottom of a baking dish; put over a quarter of a cup of grated or chopped
cheese, sprinkle with salt and red pepper; then another layer of bread,
another of cheese and the last of bread. Pour over sufficient milk to
moisten the bread; bake in a quick oven fifteen minutes, and serve at
once.




SAUCES


All meat sauces are made after the same rule, changing the liquids to give
varieties; for instance, one tablespoonful of butter (which means an
ounce), and one tablespoonful of flour (a half ounce) are always allowed
to each half pint of liquid. The butter and flour are rubbed together
(better without heating), then the liquid added, cold or warm, the whole
stirred over the fire until boiling. A half teaspoonful of salt and an
eighth of a teaspoonful of pepper is the proper amount of seasoning.


White Sauce

If you wish to make a white sauce, use one tablespoonful of butter, one
tablespoonful of flour and a half pint of milk. Called also milk or cream
sauce.


Tomato Sauce

Tomato sauce will have the same proportions of butter and flour and a half
pint of strained tomatoes.


Sauce Bechamel

For sauce Bechamel, fill the cup half full of stock, then the remaining
half with milk, giving again the half pint of liquid and usual quantity of
butter and flour.


Sauce Supreme

This is one of the nicest of all sauces to use with warmed-over chicken,
duck or turkey. Rub together a tablespoonful of butter and one of flour,
then add gradually a half pint of chicken stock; stir constantly until
boiling, take from the fire, add the yolks of two eggs, strain through a
fine sieve, add the seasoning, and serve immediately.

Sauces containing the yolks of uncooked eggs cannot be reboiled after the
eggs are added.


English Drawn Butter

For English drawn butter, use a tablespoonful of butter, a tablespoonful
of flour, and a half pint of water. We usually have the water boiling, and
add it gradually to the butter and flour, stirring rapidly. As soon as it
reaches boiling point, take from the fire and add carefully another
tablespoonful of butter. This may be converted into a plain


Sauce Hollandaise

by adding with the last tablespoonful of butter, the yolks of two eggs,
the juice of half a lemon, a teaspoonful of onion juice and a
tablespoonful of chopped parsley.


Brown Sauce

This is made by rubbing butter and flour together in the above
proportions, then adding a half pint of stock; stir until boiling, add a
teaspoonful of browning or kitchen bouquet and the usual seasoning of salt
and pepper. To change the character of this sauce add garlic, onion,
Worcestershire sauce, mushroom catsup, etc.


Brown Tomato Sauce

An exceedingly nice sauce for Hamburg steaks. After you have taken the
steaks from the pan, add a tablespoonful of butter and one of flour; mix.
Fill your measuring cup half full of strained tomatoes, the remaining half
with stock, making a half pint; add this to the butter and flour, stir
until boiling, add a seasoning of salt and pepper and pour over the
steaks.


Roasted Beef Gravy

Roasted beef gravy, which really should be a sauce, is improved by adding
a little tomato to the stock before adding it to the fat and flour. In
roasting meats, we do not use butter for the sauce; there is always
sufficient fat in the bottom of the pan. Pour from the pan all but one or
two tablespoonfuls of fat (the amount required) and add to that the flour.
A rounding tablespoonful of butter to which we refer weighs an ounce; of
liquid fat, as in the pan, you must allow two even tablespoonfuls to the
ounce; so, if you are going to make a half pint of sauce take out all but
two tablespoonfuls of fat; add one tablespoonful of flour and then the
half pint of water or stock.


Browning

Plain burned sugar (caramel) may be used to color soups and sauces, thus
saving the trouble of browning the flour or butter. It is also used as a
flavoring for sweets. Put one cup of sugar, dry, into an iron saucepan.
Stand it over a hot fire, and stir continually until it is reduced to a
dark brown liquid. When it begins to burn and smoke, add hastily a cup of
boiling water, stir and cook until a thin syrup-like mixture is formed.
It must not be too thick. Bottle, and it is ready for use, and will keep
any length of time.


Kitchen Bouquet

Add one chopped onion and a teaspoonful of celery seed to one cup of dry
sugar, and then proceed as for ordinary browning. Strain and bottle. A
very good mixture under this name can be purchased at the grocers.


Mushroom Sauce

Where just a few mushrooms are left over, either fresh or canned, they may
be chopped fine and added to a brown sauce and served with steak or beef;
or they may be chopped fine and added to a cream sauce and served with
chicken or sweetbreads.


Cold Meat Sauces

It is the fashion when one is serving cold meat to pass with it some
condiment like Worcestershire sauce, mushroom, walnut or tomato catsup. Of
course, these used in any great quantity are more or less injurious. A
number of little left-overs in the house may be used to take their place,
adding zest to the meat, and are more economical and more wholesome.


Chopped Tomato Sauce

Peel a good-sized tomato, cut it into halves and press out the seeds; chop
the flesh of the tomato fine, add a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt, a
dash of pepper, or, if you have it, a little sweet pepper chopped fine;
you may add also a little celery chopped very fine, or celery seed, and a
teaspoonful of onion juice; rub your spoon with a clove of garlic, and mix
the ingredients thoroughly; add a teaspoonful of lemon juice and dish.
Pass and use as ordinary catsup.


Grated Cucumber Sauce

Grate three or four large cucumbers; drain them on a sieve; to this
drained pulp add a half teaspoonful of salt, a dash of red pepper, a
teaspoonful of onion juice, a tablespoonful of lemon juice, and their stir
in carefully two or three tablespoonfuls of very thick cream; if you can
whip the cream a little first, so much the better. Cream may also be added
to the tomato.


Chopped Celery Sauce

Chop fine sufficient celery to make a half pint; season it with a quarter
of a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of onion juice, a dash of pepper.
Rub the spoon with garlic, mix thoroughly, stir into it the yolk of an egg
that has been beaten light with two tablespoonfuls of cream; add a few
drops of lemon juice or tarragon vinegar and serve.


Cream Horseradish Sauce

This is one of the most delightful sauces to serve with left-over meats,
especially beef. Press from the vinegar four tablespoonfuls of
horseradish, add a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt, and work in the yolk
of an egg. Whip six tablespoonfuls of cream to a stiff froth, stir it
gradually into the horseradish and dish at once.


Pudding Sauces

The simple method of making a pudding sauce is to add to a half cup of
sugar, a tablespoonful of flour; mix thoroughly, and then add hastily a
half pint of boiling water; boil for a moment and pour while hot into one
well-beaten egg, beating all the while. This may now be seasoned with any
flavoring, as orange, lemon or vanilla.

To change the character of this sauce, a tablespoonful of butter may be
added. Where butter enters largely into the composition of a pudding
sauce, it is better that it should be beaten to a cream, the sugar added
gradually, then the egg and last the liquor. Heat it over a double boiler
just at serving time, or the froth will float on the surface and the
liquid be rather dense at the bottom.

Melted sugar with lemon juice and a little water is called sugar sauce.




SALADS


There comes a time during the week, even in careful housekeeping, when
there is an accumulation of little things, a few olives, a slice or two of
beet, perhaps two or three pieces of cooked carrot, a cold potato, a tiny
little bit of cold fish, or cold meats, and not more than a tablespoonful
or two of aspic jelly; these may all be utilized in a


Russian Salad

Chop or cut carefully the vegetables; mix together, add two or three
tablespoonfuls of toasted pinon nuts, and the meat and fish; dish on
lettuce leaves, or, if you have tomatoes, peel and take out the centers,
and fill the salad into the tomatoes. Serve with French or mayonnaise
dressing; garnish with blocks of aspic jelly.




CEREALS


Cold boiled rice left over may be mixed with a small quantity of meat, and
used for stuffing tomatoes or egg plant; or it may be re-heated or made
into pudding, or added to the muffins for lunch, or added to the corn
bread.

A cup of oat meal or cracked wheat or wheatlet may also be added to the
muffins or ordinary yeast or corn breads. These little additions increase
the food value, make the mixture lighter, and save waste.


Southern Rice Bread

Separate two eggs, beat the yolks until light, and add one cup (a half
pint) of milk; add a tablespoonful of melted butter, a half teaspoonful of
salt, and one and a half cups of corn meal; beat thoroughly, and stir in
one cup of cold boiled rice; add a teaspoonful of baking powder; beat for
two or three minutes; stir in the well-beaten whites of the eggs, and bake
in a thin sheet in an ordinary baking pan.


Rice Muffins

Separate two eggs; add to the yolks one cup of milk and a cup and a half
of white flour; beat thoroughly, add a half teaspoonful of salt, a
teaspoonful of baking powder and one cup of cold boiled rice; stir in the
well-beaten whites, and bake in gem pans in a quick oven twenty minutes.


Rice Croquettes

To make cold boiled rice into croquettes, the rice must be re-heated in a
double boiler with a gill of milk and the yolk of an egg to each cup; you
may season with sugar and lemon or salt and pepper, and serve as a
vegetable. Form into cylinder-shaped croquettes; dip in egg and bread
crumbs, and fry in smoking hot fat.


Simple Rice Pudding

Put into a double boiler one quart of milk; allow it to cook for thirty
minutes; then add two tablespoonfuls of sugar, a grating of nutmeg, and
one cup of cold boiled rice; turn this into a baking pan, and bake in a
quick oven thirty minutes. Serve cold. Raisins may be added when it is
put into the baking pan.


Lemon Rice

Into one cup of cold boiled rice stir one pint of milk; beat the yolks of
three eggs with a half cup of sugar together until light; add to them the
rice and milk; add the grated yellow rind and the juice of one lemon. Turn
this into a baking pan; bake in a moderately quick oven twenty to thirty
minutes. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add three
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, and beat again. Heap these over the
pudding, dust thickly with powdered sugar; return to the oven to slowly
brown; serve cold.


Paradise Pudding

Pare, core and grate three apples. Separate three eggs; add to the yolks
four tablespoonfuls of sugar; beat until light; add a grating of nutmeg
and a teaspoonful of lemon juice; stir in a half cup of cold boiled rice;
mix with this quickly the apples, and beat well; add a half cup of milk;
turn into a baking dish, and bake for thirty minutes. Make a meringue as
in preceding recipe, from the whites of the eggs; heap it over the top,
and brown. This pudding may be served warm or cold.


Compote of Pineapple

Throw a pint of boiling water over one cup of cold boiled rice; stir for a
moment; drain, and stand at the oven door. Have ready, picked apart, one
small pineapple; add to it a half cup of sugar; heat quickly, stirring
constantly. Arrange the rice in the center of a round dish, making it into
a mound, flat on top; heap the pineapple neatly on this; pour over the
syrup, and send at once to the table. Small quantities or different kinds
of fruits that have been left over may be blended and used in this way.


Monday Pudding

Cut bits of whole wheat bread into dice. Use a half cup of any fruit that
may have been left over, prunes, raisins, chopped dates or candied fruit.
Grease an ordinary melon mold; put a layer of the bread in the bottom,
then a layer of the fruit, and so continue until you have the mold filled.
Beat three eggs, without separating, with four tablespoonfuls of sugar;
add a pint of milk; pour this carefully over the bread; let it stand for
ten minutes; then put the lid on the mold, and steam or boil continuously
for one hour. Serve with lemon or orange sauce.


Apple Farina Pudding

Pour the left-over breakfast porridge into a square mold and stand it
aside. At luncheon or dinner time cut this into thin slices, cover the
bottom of a baking dish with these slices, and cover these with sliced
apples, and so continue until you have the ingredients used, having the
last layer apples. Beat an egg, without separating, until light, add a
half cupful of milk and a saltspoonful of salt, then stir in a half cupful
of flour. When smooth pour this over the apples and bake in a quick oven
a half hour. Serve with milk or with hard sauce.


Cranberry Farina Pudding

2 cupfuls of cold left-over farina porridge
1/2 cupful of cranberries
1/2 cupful of sugar

It is wise to pour the porridge into a mold as soon as you finish
breakfast. At serving time turn this out in a glass dish, pour over the
cranberry that has been pressed through a sieve; dust thickly with the
sugar. Stir the remaining sugar into a half pint of milk or cream and
serve as a sauce with the pudding.


Plain Farina Pudding

2 cupfuls of milk
1/2 cupful of sugar
2 eggs
1 cupful of left-over farina or cream of wheat
1 teaspoonful of vanilla

Put the milk in a double boiler, add the sugar and cold farina porridge.
Stir until thoroughly hot, then add the eggs, well beaten, and the
vanilla. Turn into a baking dish and run in the oven until brown. Serve
cold, with milk or cream.


Farina Gems

2 eggs
1 cupful of milk
1 cupful of cold boiled farina
1 cupful of flour
4 level teaspoonfuls of baking powder
1/2 teaspoonful of salt

Separate the eggs, add the milk and stir this gradually into the cold
farina. When smooth add the salt, baking powder and flour, mixed. Beat,
and then fold in the well-beaten whites of eggs. Bake in gem pans in a
quick oven a half hour.


Hominy Pone

1 cupful of boiled hominy
1 cupful of white corn meal
2 cupfuls of milk
2 level tablespoonfuls of butter
2 eggs
1/2 teaspoonful of salt

If the hominy is cold left-over hominy, add to it the milk, and when
thoroughly smooth add the eggs, well beaten, then the butter, melted, and
the corn meal. Pour into a greased pan and bake in a very hot oven about
twenty to twenty-five minutes.


Oat Meal Muffins

The ordinary muffin recipes, which are always about alike, no matter what
flour is used, may have added to them a cup of well-cooked oat meal; for
instance, separate two eggs as for rice muffins; add to the yolks a cup of
milk; then add one and a half cups of whole wheat flour; beat thoroughly;
add a teaspoonful of baking powder; beat again; add one cup of well-cooked
oat meal, or you may substitute wheatlet or any of the breakfast cereals;
fold in the whites of the eggs, and bake in gem pans in a quick oven
twenty to thirty minutes.


Sandwiches

Little bits of fruit, crisp pieces of celery, cold meats of all kinds, may
be chopped, properly seasoned, and used for making fruit, vegetable and
meat sandwiches.




VEGETABLES


String beans, cauliflower, carrots, beets, peas and even a cold boiled
potato may all be cut into neat pieces, mixed together, and served on
lettuce leaves, dressed with French dressing as a salad. One cold boiled
beet may be used as a garnish for a potato salad. String beans, if you
have sufficient quantity, may be served alone as a salad.


Stuffed Egg Plant

Throw a good-sized egg plant into a kettle of boiling water; boil ten
minutes; when cold cut into halves and with a blunt knife scoop out the
center. Chop this scooped-out portion fine, mix with it an equal quantity
of finely-chopped uncooked meat, add a grated onion, a clove of garlic
mashed, a teaspoonful of salt, a little chopped parsley, if you have it,
and a dash of pepper. Fill this into the egg plant shells, stand them in a
baking pan, add a cup of stock and a tablespoonful of butter, bake slowly
one hour, basting every ten minutes.


Cucumbers

Raw cucumbers are easily wilted, and are then unfit for serving. Soak them
in pure cold, unsalted water until serving time. Pass French dressing in a
separate dish. In this way the "left-overs" may be placed in the
refrigerator and used next day as an addition to the dinner salad.


Left-Over Tomatoes

A half cup of stewed tomatoes may be used with stock for brown tomato
sauce, or for making a small dish of scalloped tomatoes, helping out at
lunch when perhaps the family is less in number. The Italians boil down
this half cup of tomatoes until it has the consistency of dough; then
press through a sieve, add a little salt, pack down into a jelly tumbler
and stand in the refrigerator to use as flavoring. A tablespoonful in a
soup, or in an ordinary sauce, or mixed with the water for baked beans, or
added to the stock sauce for spaghetti or macaroni, adds greatly to the
flavor as well as appearance.


Corn Oysters

6 ears of cold boiled corn
2 eggs
1 cupful of milk
1/2 cupful of flour
1/2 teaspoonful of salt
1 saltspoonful of pepper

Score the corn, press it out, add the eggs, well beaten, and the oil or
butter; then stir in the milk, salt and pepper. Sift the flour, stir it
in, and drop by spoonfuls into shallow hot fat.


Chicken Corn Pie

6 ears of cold cooked corn
4 eggs
1 level tablespoonful of butter, melted
1 cupful of milk
1 teaspoonful of salt
1 saltspoonful of pepper
1 young chicken

Score the corn and with a dull knife press it out. Carefully beat the
eggs, without separating, until light, add the milk, melted butter, salt
and pepper. Pour this into a casserole mold or pudding dish. Have the
chicken drawn and disjointed; make two pieces of the breast, cut it into
four pieces, dust with salt and pepper, brush with melted butter. Lay the
chicken on top of this mixture and stand the baking dish in a moderately
quick oven about one hour. Serve in the dish in which it was cooked. Some
prefer to broil the chicken on the bone side before they put it into the
pudding, the pudding may be baked, and then put it in the pudding and
brown it with the pudding. This is a good way to use cold left-over corn,
and cold bits of chicken may be used in the place of the fresh chicken.


Green Corn Cakes

4 ears of left-over cooked corn
1 egg
2 tablespoonfuls of milk
1 tablespoonful of melted butter
1/2 cupful of flour
1/2 teaspoonful of salt

Score the corn, press out the cooked pulp, add to it the beaten egg, milk,
melted butter and salt. Stir in the flour, and drop by tablespoonfuls into
a little thoroughly heated fat.




FRUITS


Small quantities of fruit that are not sufficiently sightly to put again
on the table may be put aside and made into fruit pot-pie. All sorts of
fruits may be blended. Put them into a saucepan, and to each pint of this
fruit allow one quart of water and a palatable seasoning of sugar, and you
may flavor it with a little grated lemon or orange rind; bring to boiling
point. During this time put one pint of flour into a bowl, add a half
teaspoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of baking powder. Beat one egg until
light, add to it a half cup of milk, then add this to the flour; there
should be just enough to moisten and make a dough. Take this out on the
board, knead lightly, roll out and cut into biscuits. Put these biscuits
over the top of the fruit; cover the kettle and cook slowly for fifteen
minutes; do not lift the lid during the cooking. Serve hot with plain
milk or cream, or with a hard sauce made from sugar and butter.


Fruit Souffle

Beat the whites of six eggs until light, but not dry; add three
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar; mix quickly; line the bottom of the
baking dish with any sort of fruit, such as chopped dates or figs, or
left-over candied fruits or preserves. Heap over the whites of the eggs,
dust thickly with powdered sugar, and bake in a hot oven for five minutes.
Serve immediately. To give variety, where stale biscuits or bread, or
sponge cake are left over, line the bottom of the dish with the stale
bits; pour over enough milk to moisten, put in a layer of fruit and the
whites of the eggs as above.


Fruit Jambolaya

Put one cupful of cold boiled rice in a little sieve or colander and stand
it over the tea kettle where the steam will pass through it. Chop fine any
left-over fruit at hand, an apple, pear, plum, banana, and the pulp of an
orange; they may be all mixed together and slightly sweetened. Put a
little of the rice into four serving dishes, put in the center of each a
tablespoonful of the chopped fruit and send to the table. This is rather
nice for children, and is a good way to use up both the rice and the
fruit, as it makes a good combination.


Plain White Cake

Beat a quarter of a cup of butter to a cream; add gradually one and a half
cups of sugar. Sift two cups of flour with a teaspoonful of baking powder;
measure a half pint of water; add a little water and a little flour, and
so continue until the ingredients are used; beat thoroughly, then stir in
the well-beaten whites of five eggs. Bake in a loaf or layers. Put layers
together with chopped fruit, soft custard, or a soft icing.


Chicken Muffin Cases

Boil together a half pint of water and two tablespoonfuls of butter, add
hastily a half pint of sifted flour, stir over fire until a smooth dough
is formed. Take from the fire and when cool, add one unbeaten whole egg;
beat, add another and so continue until four eggs have been added. Bake in
gem pans until light and hollow, about a half hour. This quantity will
make twelve. Cut a round from the top and fill the muffin with any creamed
mixture.


To Make Cocoanut Milk

Cover one quart of grated cocoanut with one pint of boiling water. Stir
and mash; strain and press. The milk thus produced may be used for
curries. Throw away the pulp.




SOUR MILK AND CREAM


Corn Cake

2 eggs
1 cupful of thick sour milk
1 level teaspoonful of baking soda
2 cupfuls of corn meal
3/4 cupful of white flour
2 cupfuls of sweet milk
3 level teaspoonfuls of baking powder

Beat the eggs until very light, without separating. Moisten the soda in
two tablespoonfuls of cold water, stir it into the cupful of sour milk;
add this to the eggs, then add the meal and beat thoroughly. Sift the
baking powder and flour; stir these into the other mixture, and then add
the two cupfuls of sweet milk. Pour into a shallow greased pan and bake in
a moderately quick oven about three-quarters of an hour. This should have
a custard on top.


Sponge Corn Cake

1 cupful of corn meal
1/2 cupful of flour
1 cupful of thick sour milk
2 eggs
1 level tablespoonful of butter, melted
1/2 teaspoonful of salt
1/2 teaspoonful of baking soda

Moisten the soda in a tablespoonful of water and stir into the thick sour
milk. Separate the eggs; beat the yolks, add the sour milk, with the
butter, melted, corn meal and flour. Beat thoroughly, then fold in the
well-beaten whites, add salt and bake in a shallow greased pan in a quick
oven a half hour.


Old Virginia Batter Cakes

2 eggs
1 cupful of sour milk
1 cupful of water
2 cupfuls of white corn meal
1 cupful of flour
1/2 teaspoonful of salt
1 level teaspoonful of baking soda
1 teaspoonful of baking powder

Beat the eggs, without separating, until very, very light. Dissolve the
soda in a little water, add it to the sour milk; stir until this is well
mixed, add it to the egg; add the water, the corn meal, salt and flour
sifted with the baking powder. Mix thoroughly and bake on a very lightly
greased griddle.


Plain Corn Dodgers

1 egg
1/2 teaspoonful of salt
1 cupful of thick sour milk
1 level teaspoonful of baking soda
1 cupful of corn meal
1/2 cupful of flour

Beat the egg, without separating. Dissolve the soda and add it to the sour
milk; add this to the egg; add the salt, then the corn meal and flour.
Beat until well mixed, and drop by spoonfuls in a shallow pan in which you
have a little bacon or ham fat.  When cooked on one side, turn quickly and
cook on the other.




INDEX


Anchovy, Mutton with
Apple Farina Pudding
      Snow

Baked Sardines
Balls, Cheese
       Curry
       English Chicken
Barbecue of Cold Beef
Batter Cakes, Old Virginia
Beauregard Eggs
Bechamel Sauce
Beef, Cold, Barbecue of
Beef--Cooked
    Barbecue of Cold
    Bresleau
    Croquettes
    Fritters
    Gobbits
    Minced on Toast
    Panada
    Potato Dumplings
    Ragout
    Rechauffee
    Salt Hash No. 1
              No. 2
    Steak Pudding
Beef Croquettes
     Fritters
     Gravy, Roasted
     on Toast, Minced
     Panada of
     Rechauffee of
     Salt Hash No. 1
               No. 2
     Steak Pudding
     Timbale
Beef--Uncooked
    Brown Stew
    Cannelon
    Hamburg Steaks
    Kibbee
    Timbale
Bobotee
Bordelaise Duck
Boudins
Bouquet, Kitchen
Bread
      and Butter Custard
      Croquettes
      Muffins
      Southern Rice
Bresleau
Broiled Potatoes
Browned Hash, Vegetable
Browning
Brown Sauce
      Stew
      Tomato Sauce
Butter, English Drawn

Cake, Corn
     Gold
     Plain White
     Sponge Corn
Cakes, Green Corn
       Old Virginia Batter
Canapes
Cannelon
Cases, Chicken Muffin
Casserole
Celery Sauce, Chopped
Cereals
Cheese
       Balls
       Pudding
       Souffle
Chicken Balls, English
Chicken--Cooked
    Casserole
    Creamed Hash on Toast
    Cutlets
    Indian Hash
    Mock Terrapin
    Supreme
Chicken Corn Pie
        Cutlets
        Legs, Deviled
        Muffin Cases
        Supreme
Chicken--Uncooked,
    Deviled Legs,
    English Balls,
    Timbale,
Chopped Celery Sauce,
        Tomato Sauce,
Cocoanut Milk, To Make,
Cold Beef, Barbecue of,
     Boiled Potatoes,
     Meat Sauces,
Compote of Pineapple,
Cooked Beef,
       Chicken,
       Fish,
       Mutton,
Corn Cake,
          Sponge,
     Cakes, Green,
     Dodgers, Plain,
     Oysters,
     Pie, Chicken,
Cranberry Farina Pudding,
Cream Horseradish Sauce,
Creamed Hash on Toast,
Croquettes, Beef,
            Bread,
            Egg,
            Fish,
            Potato,
            Rice,
Cucumber Sauce, Grated,
Cucumbers,
Curry Balls,
      of Mutton,
Custard, Bread and Butter,
Custards, Potato,
Cutlets, Chicken,

Deviled Chicken Legs,
Dodgers, Plain Corn,
Drawn Butter, English,
Duchess Soup,
Duck Bordelaise,
Dumplings, Potato,

Egg Croquettes,
    Plant, Stuffed,
Eggs,
     Beauregard
     Whites of,
English Chicken Balls,
        Drawn Butter,

Farina Gems,
       Pudding, Apple,
                Cranberry,
                Plain,
Fish a la Creme,
Fish--Cooked,
    a la Creme,
    Baked Sardines,
    Canapes,
    Croquettes,
French Lamb Stew,
Fritters, Beef,
Fruit Jambolaya,
      Souffle,
Fruits,

Game,
Garnishing, Potato Roses for,
Gems, Farina,
German Slaw,
Gobbits,
Gold Cake,
Grated Cucumber Sauce,
Gravy, Roasted Beef,
Green Corn Cakes,

Hamburg Steaks,
Hash, Creamed, on Toast,
      Indian,
      Salt Beef No. 1,
                No. 2,
      Vegetable Browned,
Hashed Brown Potatoes,
Hollandaise Sauce,
Hominy Pone,
Horseradish Sauce, Cream,

Indian Hash,

Jambolaya, Fruit,

Kibbee,
Kitchen Bouquet,
Klopps,

Lamb Stew, French
    with Tomatoes
Left-Over Tomatoes
Lemon Rice
Little Puddings a la Grand Belle
Lyonnaise Potatoes

Meat
     Sauces, Cold
Milk, Cocoanut, To Make
      Potatoes in
Minced Beef on Toast
Mock Terrapin or a la Newburg
Monday Pudding
Muffin Cases, Chicken
Muffins, Bread
         Oat Meal
         Rice
Mushroom Sauce
Mutton--Cooked
      Bobotee
      Boudins
      Curry of
      French Stew
      Klopps
      Pilau
      Salad
      Stew with Tomatoes
      with Anchovy
Mutton, Curry of
      Salad
Mutton--Uncooked
      Curry Balls
Mutton with Anchovy

Oat Meal Muffins
O'Brien Potatoes
Old Virginia Batter Cakes
Oysters, Corn

Panada of Beef
Paradise Pudding
Pie, Chicken Corn
Pilau
Pineapple, Compote of
Plain Corn Dodgers
      Farina Pudding
      White Cake
Pone, Hominy
Potato Croquettes
       Custards
       Dumplings
       Puff
       Roses, for Garnishing
Potatoes
        au Gratin
        Broiled
        --Cold Boiled
        Hashed Brown
        in Milk
        Lyonnaise
        O'Brien
        Scalloped
        Stuffed
        Sweet
Pudding, Apple Farina
         Beef Steak
         Cheese
         Cranberry Farina
         Monday
         Paradise
         Plain Farina
         Sauces
         Simple Rice
         Steak
Puddings, Little a la Grand Belle
Puff, Potato

Ragout
Rechauffee of Beef
Rice Bread, Southern
     Croquettes
     Lemon
     Muffins
     Pudding, Simple
Roasted Beef Gravy
Roses, Potato, for Garnishing
Russian Salad

Salad, Mutton
       Russian
Salads
Salt Beef Hash, No. 1
                No. 2
Sandwiches
Sardines, Baked
Sauce, Bechamel
       Brown
       Tomato
       Chopped Celery
       Tomato
       Cream Horseradish,
       Grated Cucumber
       Hollandaise
       Mushroom
       Supreme
       Tomato
       White
Sauces,
        Cold Meat
        Pudding
Scalloped Potatoes
Simple Rice Pudding
Slaw, German
Snow, Apple
Souffle, Cheese
         Fruit
Soup, Duchess
Sour Milk and Cream
     Corn Cake
     Old Virginia Batter Cakes
     Plain Corn Dodgers
     Sponge Corn Cake
Southern Rice Bread
Sponge Corn Cake
Steak Pudding,
      Beef
Steaks, Hamburg
Stew, Brown
      French Lamb
      Lamb, with Tomatoes
Stock
Stuffed Egg Plant
        Potatoes
Supreme Chicken
        Sauce
Sweet Potatoes

Terrapin, Mock
Timbale
        Beef
To Make Cocoanut Milk
Tomato Sauce,
       Brown
       Chopped
Tomatoes, Lamb Stew with
          Left-Over

Uncooked Beef
         Chicken
         Mutton

Vegetable Browned Hash
Vegetables

White Cake, Plain
      Sauce
Whites of Eggs








Charles Franks and tehe Online Distributed Proofreading Team.



[Illustration: THE WOMAN]

THE ROMANCE AND TRAGEDY OF A WIDELY KNOWN BUSINESS MAN OF NEW YORK

BY HIMSELF (WILLIAM INGRAHAM RUSSELL)





TO MY WIFE
Who, after more than forty years of married life,
is still my sweetheart




TO MY READERS



A true story of a life I give you; not in its completion, for it
is still unfinished. The romance of youth has lingered through all
the later years and the tragedy of these years could not destroy
it. In the manuscript tears have fallen on some pages, smiles
on others, and still others have been scorched with the fire of
indignation.

Why is it written? To bear testimony to the love and devotion of a
noble woman; to set straight before the world certain matters now
misunderstood; to give evidence of the insincerity of friendship
that comes to one in prosperity only to vanish in adversity; and
also, in the hope that an appreciative public will buy the book.

Not all the names used are fictitious, and where they are so, no
effort has been made to conceal identity.


No spirit of malice has animated the writer. Although his wounds
have been deep he knows now no feeling save sorrow and regret that
they should have been inflicted by his "_friends_"

WILLIAM INGRAHAM RUSSELL.

February 1, 1905.




AUTHOR'S NOTE TO SECOND EDITION



This narrative, first published in an author's autograph edition,
limited to one thousand copies, was privately circulated, the entire
edition having been sold by the author through correspondence.

A second edition is now offered to the public.  The original narrative,
except for the correction of a few minor errors, is unchanged, and
added to it are two chapters disclosing a remarkable sequel and
also setting forth a lesson for the younger generation of business
men, showing clearly how different would have been the conditions
had my wisdom come before my experience.

This latter chapter was written at the suggestion of an eminently
successful New York business man, president of one of the largest
and oldest concerns in the United States.

WILLIAM INGRAHAM RUSSELL.
"CHESTNUT RIDGE"
Jessup, Maryland,

February 15th, 1907.




AUTHOR'S NOTE TO THIRD EDITION



Why is it published?

The second Edition--long out of print, still orders that could not
be filled were continually received.  These have come from nearly
every State in the Union and as the book has never been advertised
other than by press reviews and the favorable comment of readers,
this demand means something.

Perhaps if you read the narrative you will discover the answer.

WILLIAM INGRAHAM RUSSELL

CALVERT BUILDING,
Baltimore, Maryland,

August 23rd, 1913.




CONTENTS



CHAPTER

       I The First Round of the Ladder
      II I Meet My Affinity
     III A Co-Partnership Dissolved
      IV And the Answer Was "Yes"
       V Wedding Bells
      VI A First Reverse of Fortune
     VII The Coming of the Stork
    VIII The New Partner
      IX Suburban Life
       X My Partner Retires
      XI A Year of Sunshine
     XII An Ideal Life
    XIII Prosperous Days
     XIV Near the Dark Valley
      XV A Successful Maneuver
     XVI "Redstone"
    XVII Our Neighbors
   XVIII An Uneventful Year
     XIX The Stream Broadens
      XX Retrogression
     XXI The Dam Gives Way
    XXII The Calm Before the Storm
   XXIII "A Few Weak French Speculators"
    XXIV Exciting Times
     XXV "Come and Dance in the Barn"
    XXVI An Importer and Dealer
   XXVII Sad Hearts at Knollwood
  XXVIII New Faces
    XXIX A Short Year and a Merry One
     XXX A Voucher
    XXXI Two Sides to the Question
   XXXII The Panic of Ninety-Three
  XXXIII Farewell to "Redstone"
   XXXIV A Summer on the Sound
    XXXV Monmouth Beach
   XXXVI The Ship Founders
  XXXVII The Family and Friends
 XXXVIII "W. E. Stowe & Co., Incorporated"
   XXXIX The Struggle Commenced
      XL The Struggle Continued
     XLI Darkness Before the Dawn
    XLII Brighter Days
   XLIII Smooth Sailing Into Rough Waters
    XLIV The Tyranny of the Jury Law
     XLV Bitter Trials
    XLVI At the Brink of the Grave
   XLVII Again at the Helm
  XLVIII A Nightmare
    XLIX Retrospection
       L A Dream
      LI "From God and the King"
     LII A Foundation Principle




ILLUSTRATIONS



The Woman
Portrait
"Sunnyside"
"Redstone"
"Redstone"--Library
Off for a drive
Eighty-sixth Street and West End Avenue
"Redstone"--The Hall
"Chestnut Ridge"
"Chestnut Ridge"--Library




[ILLUSTRATION: The Author]

[His Signature]

August, 1913




CHAPTER I

THE FIRST ROUND OF THE LADDER



NEW YORK, February 23, 1866.

"Master Walter E. Stowe:

"If you have not yet procured a situation, please call at my office,
45 Duane Street, and oblige.

"Yours truly,

"JNO. DERHAM,
"Per T. E. D."

This letter came to me in response to my application for a
situation as an office-boy. I had replied to the advertisement in
the _Herald_, without consulting my parents, knowing they would
raise objections to my leaving school.

My father, one of New York's old-time shipping merchants, running
a line of packets to Cuban ports, had failed in business as a result
of losses during the war, the crowding out of sailing vessels by
steamers, and unfortunate outside investments.

It did not require great discernment to see the necessity of my
giving up all idea of going to Columbia College, for which I was
preparing, and thus, before I was sixteen years of age, I commenced
as an office-boy at a salary of three dollars per week. The position
in those days was vastly different from what it is to-day. The
work now done by janitors and porters fell to the office-boy, and
my duties included sweeping and dusting the office, cleaning windows,
and in winter making fires.

This work, menial and distasteful as it was to the boy brought up
in luxury, was cheerfully undertaken, and it is only referred to
here to show that my start was from the first round of the ladder.

My employer, a north of Ireland man, though frequently brusque with
others, often to the detriment of his own interest, always treated
me with consideration and probably my life at the office ran as
smoothly as that of any lad in similar position. The only other
employee was a younger brother of Mr.  Derham, who was taken in as
a limited partner shortly after I was employed. The firm carried on
a brokerage business, requiring no capital, and stood in the trade
as well and perhaps a little better than any of its competitors,
of which there were but few.

Much of the business done by the firm consisted in the execution
of orders for out-of-town dealers and consumers, but by far the
greater volume comprised the negotiations carried on between the
different importers and dealers of New York.

The entire business of the United States, in their line of trade,
was practically controlled by these importers and dealers. The
characteristics of the trade as they existed then, exist to-day.
A few of the old firms have gone out of existence through failure
or liquidation, and some accessions have been made, chiefly of
foreign blood, but most of the old concerns remain, and though the
personality of these has changed, through the departure of many on
the long journey and the taking of their places by their successors,
the same spirit that was in evidence in the years immediately
following the war, animates the trade to-day.

Admitting that sentiment has no place in business and brotherly
love is not to be expected amongst business competitors, I feel
safe in saying that in no other trade has jealous rivalry so nearly
approached to personal animosity.

Preeminent in the trade stands a firm with name unchanged for
three generations, of world-wide reputation for its wealth and the
philanthropy of its individual members, past and present, all of
whom have been prominent in New York's religious and social life.
Another firm only a few years ago discontinued a custom of hanging
on the walls of its offices scriptural texts. Of still another
firm, the most active member is a leader of Brooklyn's annual
Sunday-school processions, though he prides himself on his cold
blood, and before leaving his home in the morning to go to his office
replaces his heart with a paving-stone. But why go on? Suffice it
to say that the trade is eminently respectable and rich, in some
instances possessed of enormous wealth, and this is the trade in
which I began my career.

My office life for the first two years was routine and devoid of
excitement, except for occasional strenuous experiences the result
of Mr. Derham's brusqueness and quickness to resent anything that
he deemed an attempt to take advantage of, or put a slight upon him.
He was the sort of man that makes a steadfast friend or a bitter
enemy, with no room for anything in between.

"Walter, take this contract to Winter and bring me his acceptance,"
said Mr. Derham on one occasion, when, having made what in those
days was considered a large sale, he was feeling particularly
good-natured over it.

"Yes, sir," I replied, and was off at once, little knowing the
reception awaiting me in the Beaver Street office of Rudolph C.
Winter.

On entering the office I approached Mr. Winter's desk and handed
him the contract. He glanced at it, and then all the nervous
irritability for which that individual was noted came to the surface
at once.  Springing up from his desk, upsetting the chair in his
haste and rushing toward me, he shouted:

"Here! take this back to Mr. Derham; tell him I won't have it!
I didn't sell it; get out!" And pushing me across the office, he
opened the door and thrust me into the street, throwing after me
my hat, which had been knocked from my hand.

It did not take me long to get back to Mr. Derham and give him an
account of what had occurred.

In a fury he put on his hat, and saying "come with me," we walked
rapidly to Winter's office.  Entering the door with blood in his
eye, Mr. Derham stepped up to the still wrathful merchant.

"Winter, I understand you decline to accept this contract."

"But," began Winter, when down on the desk came Mr. Derham's clenched
fist.

"No explanations now; sign first, and then after you have apologized
to my messenger, who is my representative when I send him to you,
perhaps I'll listen, and I am not sure I will not give you a good
thrashing afterwards."

The fury of Winter disappeared and in its place there was a very
mild spring. He signed the contract, told me he was sorry he had
been so hasty, and when I left them he was trying to pacify Mr.
Derham.

On another occasion, Mr. Brightman, of Brightman & Smart, a dignified
gentleman at that time acting as consul for the Netherlands, called
at the office.

It appeared he had made a sale which he regretted and he called to
have it cancelled, claiming that he had been induced to make the
sale through the alleged misrepresentation by Mr. Thomas Derham,
of certain features of the market.

The argument became heated and Brightman called Thomas a liar.
His brother looked at him in silence for a moment, long enough
to discover that he was lacking either in pluck or inclination to
resent the insult, then springing at Brightman he literally threw
him out of the office.

These scenes, though not of daily occurrence, were frequent enough
to relieve the monotony of office life and at the same time to give
me a wholesome fear of incurring my employer's displeasure.

In the summer of 1868 Mr. Thomas Derham was married. For some
reason unknown to me his brother did not approve, and a little
later differences arose between them, the friction increasing until
finally a separation of their business interests was agreed upon.
Mr. Thomas Derham launched out on his own account, and the competition
between the brothers became a bitter warfare, all personal intercourse
ceasing.

At this time my salary was seven dollars per week, and Mr. Derham,
after the dissolution of partnership with his brother, advanced it
to ten dollars.

As he was my only employer and there were no further advances later,
this is the largest salary I was ever paid.

How large it looked to me then I remember well, and although matters
had gone from bad to worse at home and most of my earnings had to
contribute to keep the pot boiling, it seemed to me as if I were
rich the first Saturday night I carried home the ten-dollar bill.

From this time my position in the office became more dignified. A
woman was employed to do the cleaning, and Mr. Derham delegated to
me the placing of many of the smaller orders and occasionally sent
me on business trips to near-by cities.

I worked hard and faithfully to make my services valuable.
I kept the books, made collections, attended to a portion of the
correspondence, and it was not long before I had acquired a thorough
knowledge of the methods of doing the business and was able to carry
out transactions to a finish without having to consult my employer.

In October, 1870, Mr. Derham told me he had decided to give up the
business and accept an offer which had been made him by one of the
large importing firms, to go to England as its foreign representative.

He proposed that I take his business, paying him for the good-will
twenty-five per cent of the profits for three years.

As I was not yet twenty years of age, he thought me too young to
assume the business alone, and advised a partnership on equal terms
with a Mr. Bulkley, then doing a brokerage business in a line that
would work in well with ours, it being his idea to combine the two.

Adam Bulkley, a tall, handsome fellow of thirty-five, was a personal
friend of Mr. Derham. He was a captain in the Seventh Regiment
and had seen service. A man of attractive personality, he had many
friends and had married the daughter of one of the wealthiest hide
and leather brokers in the "swamp."

I do not know why, but in my first interview with this man I took
an aversion to him. I tried to convince Mr. Derham that I could
do better without a partner, but he thought otherwise, and not
unnaturally, under the circumstances, I allowed matters to take
their course as he planned them, and the partnership was made for
a period of three years.

Early in November Mr. Derham sailed for England, leaving as his
successor the firm of Bulkley & Stowe.




CHAPTER II

I MEET MY AFFINITY



My home was in Brooklyn. On my mother's side the family came from
the old Dutch settlers of that section of Greater New York. My
mother's father was a commissioned officer in the war of 1812. My
father came from Connecticut, of English ancestry.  I used to tell
my mother the only thing I could never forgive her was that I was
born in Brooklyn, and I have never gotten over my dislike for the
place, though it is nearly thirty years since I left there.

The family for generations back have been Episcopalians, and from
earliest childhood I was accustomed to attend regularly Sunday-school
and church services.

After my father's failure we moved into a house on St. James Place,
and our church home was old St. Luke's, on Clinton avenue. Doctor
Diller, the rector, who lost his life in the burning of a steamboat
on the East River, was a life-long friend of the family, and my
social intercourse was chiefly with the young people of his church.

Mr. Sherman, the treasurer and senior warden of the church and
superintendent of the Sunday-school, a fine old gentleman, now
gathered to his fathers, was one of Hon. Seth Low's "Cabinet," when
he was Mayor of Brooklyn. Seth Low, by the way, is the same age as
myself, and we were schoolmates at the Polytechnic Institute.

As librarian of the Sunday-school and one of the committee in charge
of the social meetings of the young people, I became intimate with
Mr. Sherman and his family.

On December 20th, 1870, the first sociable of the season was held
and I had looked forward to it with considerable interest, owing
to the fact that a niece of Mr. Sherman, residing in Chicago and
then visiting him for the winter, was to be present. I had heard
the young lady spoken of in such glowing terms that I anticipated
much pleasure in meeting her.

When the evening came and I met Miss Wilson, I must confess I was
not deeply impressed, and I have since learned that the lady, who
had heard much of me from her cousin, Miss Sherman, regarded me
with indifference.

On this occasion, the saying that "first impressions go a great
way" was disproved, for two weeks later, after returning from the
second sociable, where I again met Miss Wilson, I said to my sister,
whom I had escorted:

"What do you think of Miss Wilson"?

"A very charming girl" she replied, and I then told her I had lost
my heart and was determined to win her for my wife.

Miss Wilson was of the brunette type. Her face, surmounted by a
mass of dark brown, silky hair, was most attractive. A clear olive
complexion, charming features, and beneath long lashes, large
brilliant eyes. Her figure, was finely proportioned and graceful.

Endowed with unusual common sense and well educated she was a most
interesting conversationalist, while her voice was musical and well
modulated.

Why I did not discover all these charms on the occasion of our
first meeting I never have been able to understand, unless it was
because our intercourse on that evening was limited to little more
than a formal introduction.

Thereafter, I sought every possible opportunity for the enjoyment
of Miss Wilson's society.

Our acquaintance quickly grew into a friendship which permitted
almost daily intercourse and enabled me to fathom the noble nature
of the girl, and to realize what a blessing would be mine if I
could win her affection.

A girl of strong character, there was nothing of the frivolous about
her. In the frequent informal social gatherings she was always the
life of the occasion, but never did her merriment get down to the
level of silliness. Without a suspicion of prudishness there was
always with her the natural dignity of the true-born gentlewoman.

Of course, it need not be said that Miss Wilson had many
admirers--altogether too many for my peace of mind.

When I would get temporary relief by thinking I was getting the
best of the Brooklyn element, I would suffer a heart-throb because
of news that some flame left behind in Chicago was burning brighter.
When that would dim or become extinguished, depressing news would
reach me from West Point, where Miss Wilson visited her cousin,
the wife of an officer.

Thus I was kept guessing most of the time, and though I could not
but feel I was steadily gaining my way to the goal, I cannot say
that I did not spend many an anxious hour pondering over the other
fellow's chances.

In the early summer Miss Wilson left Brooklyn for a visit to
relatives in Boston.

A few days later I followed her to that city, and her pleasure at
seeing me was so evident, her reception so cordial, that I dismissed
from my mind all fear of my rivals and determined to take an early
opportunity of offering her my hand and heart.

How impatiently I awaited her return. The days dragged along. I
was restless and unhappy. We did not correspond, so there were no
letters to brighten the gloomy days of waiting.

To a small degree I derived some comfort from frequent calls on
Miss Sherman, who was good enough to tell me of her letters from
her cousin and good-natured enough to permit me to spend most of
the evening in talking about her. I was certainly very much in love,
and as the case with most young men in that condition of mind, the
object of my adoration was always in my thoughts.

All things finally come to an end, and early in July Miss Wilson
returned to Brooklyn. She was to remain but a few days before
leaving for a visit in Connecticut.

In the interim I felt I must speak, and yet now that the opportunity
had arrived, what a mighty proposition it seemed.

For days and days I had been thinking of it, at night I dreamed of
it. It seemed so easy to tell the woman I loved, that I loved her,
and yet when the time had come my courage waned. I let day after
day pass in spite of a resolution each morning that before sleeping
again I would know my fate.

I tried to reason with myself.

I knew that my personality was not objectionable.  I had lived an
absolutely clean life, had no vices.  My associates were of the
right kind, business prospects satisfactory. Why should I hesitate
to offer a hand that was clean, a heart that was pure to the woman
I loved? "I will do it," I said aloud, and I did--that evening.

It was the evening of July 10th, 1870.

The day had been warm and oppressive, but after sundown a pleasant
breeze cooled the air.

As I entered the grounds surrounding Mr. Sherman's home I stood for
a few moments beneath the foliage of his fine old trees, inhaling
the fragrance of the flowers blooming on the lawn.

My mind was filled with a feeling of awe at the great responsibility
I was about to assume.

I had perfect confidence in my ability to care for the well-being
and happiness of the object of my affection. I knew my love was
sincere and lasting, and yet, when I thought of all it meant, to
take a girl from a home in which she was loved and happy, to bind
her to me for all time, to share what might come of good or evil in
the uncertainties of life, it came over me with tremendous force
that if this girl should intrust her heart to my keeping, a lifetime
of devotion should be her reward.

The early part of the evening was passed in general conversation
with the family, and after a little music we were finally left
alone.

The hour had come!

At my request Miss Wilson sat at the piano and played a few strains
of an old waltz we had been discussing.  I stood beside her while
she sat there, and in tones trembling with the intensity of my
feelings I poured forth the old, old story. I told her of my love
in such words as I could command in my agitation.

Then, while my heart almost ceased beating, Miss Wilson told me in
the kindest possible manner of her appreciation of the offer and
also of her complete surprise. She said that while she esteemed me
highly as a friend and liked me personally very much, she had not
thought of me as a lover, and that she could not regard me in that
light.

To say that I was crushed by the blow, kindly as it had fallen, does
not express my feelings. When, however, in reply to my question I
learned that there was no one else--that she was still heart free,
I gained courage; and when, before I had left her that evening, she
had consented to leave the matter open until some future time, my
hopes of ultimate success were very far from being destroyed.




CHAPTER III.

A CO-PARTNERSHIP DISSOLVED



Before Mr. Derham had landed in England my feeling of dislike for
my partner had increased materially.

His own business, which had been represented as worth at least five
hundred dollars per month to the firm, was, so far as I could see,
largely a myth.

He had a habit of arriving at the office at half-past ten or
eleven o'clock, and leaving at three. By frequent demands on his
father-in-law he kept himself in funds to provide for his extravagant
living, and it seemed to me his principal object in coming to the
office at all was to meet various fast-looking men who called there
to see him.

To cap the climax, he had a half-patronizing, half-nagging way of
treating me that I simply could not put up with. I was doing all
the business, earning all the money that was made, and this man
was entitled to fifty per cent of the net results. I stood it for
a few months, meanwhile writing fully to Mr.  Derham of the position
in which I was placed.

Finally, on the 10th of March, 1871 when I saw on Bulkley's desk a
note for a few hundred dollars, drawn to his own order and signed
by him with the firm's name, and in response to my inquiry as to
the meaning of it, he told me it was a little matter he was putting
through by a friend for his own accommodation, I cut the knot and
insisted on a dissolution of our co-partnership.

I had to pay him a small sum to get his consent, and though I had
to borrow the money to make the payment, I did so rather than have
any litigation, which he threatened.

It was with a feeling of immense relief that I went to the office
the following morning, knowing that I was rid of the leaden weight
which Mr. Derham had bound to me in an error of judgment, which he
readily admitted.

The sign was removed and in its place went up another bearing my
name only.

Although in the trade I enjoyed a fair measure of popularity,
which is the key-note to a broker's success, I found my youth a
disadvantage when it came to seeking important business.

The dealers hesitated to intrust me with the carrying out of large
contracts, while favoring me with the smaller orders. This was
a great trial and I could not but feel it an injustice. Still,
there was nothing I could do except to be grateful for the favors
I received and strive in every way to demonstrate my ability.

Another thing I had to fight against was the questionable methods
of a firm which was my principal competitor.

Naturally there was a very active effort made to get away from
me the old trade which Mr. Derham had held well in hand for many
years. This I had expected, but I did not count upon my competitor
waiving commissions whenever we came into a contest for business
of any importance.

This sort of competition I could not meet, not only as a matter
of principle based on the idea that "the laborer is worthy of his
hire," but because I could not afford to do business for nothing.

Despite the handicap of youth and unfair competition, I kept steadily
at work increasing the strength of my position where it was already
established, and striving to the utmost to get a foothold where I
had not yet secured it.

At the end of the year, when the books were balanced, I found that
I had made about twenty-five hundred dollars, as compared with
twelve thousand dollars made by Mr. Derham the year previous.

This was most unsatisfactory to me, for while of course it was
a much larger income than I had ever before earned, it was so far
below my expectations that I could not but feel keen disappointment.

Still, I knew that I now possessed a business, and as the prospects
were good I started the new year with courage and the determination
to make a better showing.

Early in the year two incidents occurred that helped me immensely.

The largest consumers in our line were the oil refiners, all of
whom have since been absorbed by the Standard Oil Company.

These concerns were heavy buyers, and Mr.  Thomas Derham had the
preference on their business.  From the first I had struggled to get
a share of it, without having made them, after a year of constant
effort, a single sale. Still, I made a daily call on each and
finally secured my first order.

It was given to me by Mr. J. A. Bostwick personally, and the order
was so large I could scarcely believe I had captured it. This was
the entering wedge, and throughout the year, although not getting
more than a very small proportion of the business, I succeeded in
selling occasionally to all of the refiners.

The other incident was even more important in its results, for it
was the commencement of intimate relations with the important firm
which stood at the head of the trade.

This firm had up to that time shown a decided favoritism for my chief
competitor, but this feeling changed in consequence of investments
in a mining stock, both by the firm and by its most active individual
member, which they had been led into through the influence of my
competitor.

The investment proved disastrous, resulting in losses of more than
a hundred thousand dollars, and though this sum was insignificant
to people of such large wealth, the feeling of bitterness aroused
was most acute.

My competitor had for many years as a Boston correspondent the
firm of W. B. Tatnall & Company, and through it a large business
was done with the Boston dealers; but the most important phase of
this connection was the fact that Tatnall controlled the selling
of a certain commodity imported in large quantities by a Boston
firm, and of which the leading firm in New York was the largest
buyer.

Tatnall & Company had severed abruptly its connection with my
competitor, and without my solicitation made me a proposition which
I promptly accepted.  The competing firm immediately established
in Boston as its correspondent a brother of the senior partner.

The first battle for supremacy came over the sale of a cargo due
to arrive at Boston by a sailing vessel.  This was before the days
of the telephone, and numerous telegrams passed between us before
the transaction was closed.

When the final message confirming the sale reached me, it read
as follows: "Closed, contracts coming, competitors conquered,
congratulations, cocktails, cigars, careful contemplation."

In a feeling of exuberance Tatnall had written this telegram, and
by his closing words meant me to remember that "one swallow does
not make a summer," and that over-confidence on the occasion of a
first success would be unwise.

Mr. W. B. Tatnall came to New York a few days later. It was our
first meeting and I found him a delightful man, a typical Bostonian.
He was highly cultured, well up in art, a book-collector of some
repute.

I recall one little incident of his visit which amused me greatly.
The weather was very stormy and his salutation on greeting me was,
"Good-morning Mr. Stowe; fine day for birds of an aquatic nature."

We called on all the trade, and in every office he made the same
remark. Before the day was over I concluded I was not likely ever
to forget that rain makes "a fine day for ducks."




CHAPTER IV

AND THE ANSWER WAS "YES"



Although when I left Miss Wilson on that evening in July it was not
as an accepted lover, as I had brought myself to believe it would
be, and my disappointment was overwhelming that such was the case,
my heart told me that all was not lost.

She had admitted that she admired and respected me more than any
other man of her acquaintance, while she did not feel the love for
me that a woman should give to the man she marries.

This admission I deemed a great point gained.

With a field cleared of rivals, it only remained to transform her
admiration and respect into love.  How to do that was for me to
find out. That it could be done I felt reasonably certain.

It was my first love-affair, hence I was an amateur in such matters.
This I knew was a point in my favor, as Miss Wilson was not the
sort of girl to admire a man who had a habit of falling in love
with every pretty face. Life in her eyes had its serious side and
she was well equipped mentally to test the true ring of those with
whom she came in contact.

The following day I wrote Miss Wilson at length, reiterating and
enlarging on all that I had said, telling her I would wait until
she felt she could give me a definite answer, and begging her not
to hasten her decision if it was to be negative.

If I had any fear at all it was on this point--that she might feel
it imperative to decide the matter promptly, while I was prepared
to wait, years if necessary, rather than to take from those lips
which I so eagerly longed to press to mine own in love's first
caress, the relentless, cruel--no.

Miss Wilson's contemplated visit to Connecticut was postponed for
a while and this gave me an opportunity to see her daily.

That I laid vigorous siege to her heart was certain.  I was most
assiduous in all those little attentions that please a woman, and
as our tastes were entirely congenial our hours of companionship
were delightful to both.

If I were a few minutes late in making my evening call, very rarely
the case, she would remark it, and I soon realized that the feature
of her day was the hours passed with me. In fact, my presence was
becoming necessary to her happiness.

As soon as this impression became fixed in my mind, I grew impatient
at delay in the culmination of my desires, and felt I must soon urge
Miss Wilson to relieve me of suspense by making me the happiest of
men. Probably I should have done this within a few days had it not
been for the fact that she left Brooklyn on her visit to Middletown,
Connecticut.  Then I decided to await her return.

On the morning of the sixth of September I found in my mail at the
office an envelope addressed in a lady's handwriting, postmarked
Middletown, Connecticut.

It contained a brief note from Miss Wilson, stating that on that day
at one o'clock she would be due at New York and was going at once
for a week at West Point, and asked me, if convenient, to meet her
at the railroad station to escort her across the city to the boat.

There were three significant points in that note, the first I had
ever received from her.

First, it commenced with "Dear Walter." Always before I had been
Mr. Stowe. Next, it was signed as "Yours, with love"; and last, but
by no means least, Miss Wilson wrote, as a postscript, "I shall be
alone."

Would it be convenient for me to meet that train?  I should say
so.

I was at the station with a carriage at least half an hour ahead
of time and I walked the platform of the old Twenty-seventh Street
station of the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad Company,
back and forth, looking at my watch every five minutes and wondering
if the train would ever come.

The train arrived on time, and as Miss Wilson alighted from the car,
I greeted her. How I gazed into those beautiful eyes and tried to
read there the love I hungered for.

We drove to the Hotel Brunswick for luncheon, and if "the proof
of the pudding is in the eating," the luncheon, despite the good
reputation of that old hostelry, then in its palmy days, must have
been a poor one. Either that, or we lacked appetite--more likely
the latter.

After luncheon we again took the carriage, and drove to the pier
where the _Mary Powell_ was awaiting her passengers.

It was during that drive, while passing down Fifth Avenue, that
the word I so longed to hear was spoken. "Yes"--only a single word
and yet it spoke volumes to my heart. It bound together for all
time two beings, neither of whom had known for longer than a few
months even of the existence of the other, and yet a divine power
had brought these two hearts, beating in unison, to their natural
mate.  While the lips whispered "yes," the hand found its way to
mine and the loving clasp was the only demonstration the surroundings
permitted; but when the carriage had turned into a comparatively
quiet side street and just before it reached the pier, I could no
longer refrain.

Drawing the curtains at the carriage windows, I clasped to my heart
the lovely girl who was now my very own.

Oh, what an ecstasy of bliss that moment was!

I have owned many handsome carriages, luxurious in their appointments,
drawn by fine horses, but as I look back to that day of days, that
shabby public hack, with its rough-looking driver, holding the reins
over a pair of ill-fed animals, stands in my memory as almost ideal.

Of course I did not leave my promised wife at the boat. There
was no reason I should not take that delightful sail up the river
with her, and there was every reason why I should. I sought out a
secluded spot on deck and there, comparatively free from observation,
we let our thoughts revel in our new-found happiness.

It was possible, unseen, to occasionally clasp each other's hand,
and in this way a sort of lover's wireless telegraph kept us in
communication that emphasized to me the fact that my happiness was
real and not a dream.

Our conversation was not very animated; we were too happy to talk,
and the beautiful scenery of the Hudson was lost to us on that
occasion.

To look into each other's eyes and read there all that was in our
hearts was the supreme pleasure and happiness of the moment.

When the boat arrived at West Point, Lieutenant Harper, then
Professor of Spanish at the Academy, afterwards major, and since
promoted to colonel for gallantry in the Philippines, met Miss
Wilson at the landing.

I had planned to at once take the ferry across the river--there
was no West Shore Railroad at that time--and return to New York by
train, but Lieutenant Harper insisted that I should dine with them
and take a later train, which I did.

Of course the, to us, great incident of the day was unknown to
Miss Wilson's friends, and she did not enlighten them until after
I had gone.

The two or three hours spent with Lieutenant Harper's family,
while I was supposed to be simply a friend of Miss Wilson, passed
quickly. I had hoped to be able on leaving to see her alone for
at least a few moments, but in this I was disappointed, and while
the clasp of her hand and the expression of her eyes conveyed a
great deal to me, our parting that evening was in its details most
unsatisfactory from a lover's point of view.

During that first week of our engagement, while separated, we
corresponded daily, and the rejoicing was mutual when, her visit
ended, Miss Wilson returned to Brooklyn.

Then for two short weeks I enjoyed to the full the privileges and
delights of an accepted lover.  What visions of future happiness
those two weeks of close companionship opened to my eyes! The
refinement and natural dignity of the woman made her caresses of
exquisite daintiness and tenderness.  Spontaneously and absolutely
without a suggestion of affectation her love was poured out generously
to the man who had won her heart, and each evening it seemed as if
my affection had increased a thousand fold.

Oh, what a wonderful thing is pure love! What would the world be
without it?

The day of our parting was drawing nigh.

At the end of September Miss Wilson was to return to her home in
Chicago. A month later I was to visit her there, but the thought
of that month of separation so soon after we had become engaged
saddened us and our hearts dreaded the ordeal.  Still, come it
did, and as I watched the train pull out of the station, carrying
with it all that I loved best in the world, I felt a wrench at my
heartstrings and a loneliness that was inexpressible.

For a month I consoled myself as best I could with the letters
which reached me almost daily and always brought me happiness.

Then I turned my face westward.

Miss Wilson's father had been dead for many years. She, with her
mother, resided with her married sister, the wife of a general in
the army during the war, and at the time of which I write, judge
of the Probate Court. Until his death, a few years ago, he was one
of Chicago's best known and most highly respected citizens.

As the relatives approved of our engagement, my reception by the
family was all that could be desired.  As to my reception by Miss
Wilson, I think it safe to leave it to the imagination of my readers.
It was entirely satisfactory to me.

My visit was of necessity a short one. For though I was not again
to see Miss Wilson until the time of our marriage, a full year
away, I had to return to New York after a few days and look after
my business interests, which required constant personal attention.

The days of my visit flew speedily, and back in New York I settled
down to business with increased ambition and the greatest possible
incentive to achieve success.




CHAPTER V

WEDDING BELLS



The year in which the days had been as weeks, the weeks as months,
had finally come to an end, and at six o'clock on the evening of
Saturday, October 19th, 1872, I started on my thirty-six hours'
journey to Chicago.

There was no "Twentieth Century Limited," making the trip in twenty
hours, in those days, and my two nights and a day on the road gave
me ample time for contemplation, which I was in a mood to avail
myself of. I felt all the eagerness of youth, the power of a love
that stirred my whole being, and was impressed with the solemnity
of the obligation I was about to incur.

The life of a lovely woman was to be intrusted to me, to make or
to mar according as I did my duty.

I passed many hours, as the train rolled on, mile after mile,
mentally reviewing the past, looking at the present, and planning
for the future.

My year of correspondence with my wife-to-be had increased the
strength of my affection, and to its growth there seemed no end. In
a worldly way I had prospered, accumulating five thousand dollars,
while my income from my business was, so far as I could see, making
a steady and gratifying increase.  My health was perfect, I had not
a care in the world, and when I arrived in Chicago Monday morning
my happiness was complete. No, not quite; but it was a few minutes
later when I arrived at the home of my bride on Michigan avenue.

I remained a guest there until Tuesday, and then visited my married
sister, who resided in a suburb of Chicago.

Wednesday was one of those glorious October days when, with a clear
sky, the temperature is low enough to make the air bracing without
being too cold. I was at the Michigan avenue home early, and after
a few minutes with Miss Wilson, walking through the rooms, admiring
the floral decorations, I was deserted, and felt myself for the
time being as rather "a fifth wheel to a coach."

The bride was in the hands of her girl friends, everybody was busy
with the final preparations, and I wandered around, wishing that
the agony was over and I had my wife to myself.

At last the hour arrived.

Preceded by Miss Wilson's little nieces as flower-girls we entered
the crowded rooms, and in a few minutes the clergyman had pronounced
us man and wife.

As I am not writing for a society paper or fashion journal, I will
not attempt to describe the gown worn by the bride. It was very
handsome, no doubt.

But the woman who wore it! Ah, there was a subject for the pen of
a poet, the brush of an artist.  Certainly I have never seen any
creature half so lovely; and as I looked into those eyes, beaming
with love, trust, confidence,--everything, that a noble woman could
give to the man she loved,--I thanked my God for the inestimable
blessing He had bestowed upon me.

I have made many mistakes in my life, most men have, and I have
done many things the wisdom of which was afterwards proven; but as
I write these lines, looking back over more than thirty-two years
of married life, I know that my marriage is the one act of my whole
career that stands pre-eminent as the wisest and best thing that
I have ever done.

In all these years my wife and I have been as one.  In days of
prosperity she rejoiced with me, in times of adversity and bitter
trials she has stood nobly by me, always with absolute faith in
and unswerving loyalty to the man to whom she gave her heart.

Her love, courage, and cheerfulness have been the mainstays which
supported me when I would have fallen by the wayside, and her sweet
companionship and keen appreciation of refined pleasures have added
immeasurably to my enjoyment and happiness.

After a two-hour reception we donned our traveling garb and made
a race for the carriage, submitting good-naturedly to the usual
shower of rice and slippers.

We were to take the five o'clock train going East, and the Judge
rode with us to the station. When the last farewell had been said
while standing on the platform of the car as the train pulled out
from the station, we sought our drawing-room in the Pullman, and
closing the door I clasped my wife to my heart.

It was the first moment we had been alone since the ceremony.

Our wedding-trip was necessarily brief, as I had to get back to
my business; so after a day or two each at Toledo and Albany, the
early part of the following week found us in New York.

Like all young people on their wedding-trip, we tried to fool the
public into believing that we were not bride and groom; but I have
no doubt that if we fooled anybody, that individual must have been
very nearsighted and minus eye-glasses.

My wife possibly maintained her dignity, but I fear I was too happy
to be suppressed.

I remember well the peculiar way in which the clerk at the Boody
House, Toledo, looked at me when I registered. As I was not yet
twenty-two years of age I could hardly have expected him to take
us for "old married folks."

Before leaving for Chicago I had engaged an apartment and board with
a very pleasant and refined family in Fort Greene Place, Brooklyn,
and it was there we commenced our married life.

It was my custom to walk to Wall Street Ferry each morning on my
way to the office, and whenever the weather was suitable my wife
accompanied me to within a block or two of the ferry.

In the afternoon I was always home at the earliest possible moment.

I begrudged every hour that we were parted.

Each day I discovered something new to admire, some trait of
character, some mental attribute, or a dainty mannerism that was
simply captivating.

Thus were our lives developing day after day.

In the evenings we had frequent callers, and while I was always
the gracious host to my friends, I was selfish enough to wish, at
times, that we could live on an island by ourselves, where we could
remain undisturbed.

It is said "there is nothing half so sweet in life, as love's young
dream." I have found something far sweeter, as this narrative in
its natural progression will develop; but those were my days of
"love's young dream."

I was proud of my wife, proud of the admiration she commanded from
our friends, but I wanted her all to myself.

Our Sundays were looked forward to with eagerness.  We attended
church service in the morning, and the afternoons were passed in
our apartment in delightful intercourse.

There was never a dull moment.

Sunday evening supper, which to me has always been a most attractive
meal, was usually taken either with my family or at Mr. Sherman's.
Occasionally we would attend an evening service, but as a rule we
would get home early and have a few hours to ourselves.

Our year of separation while engaged had to be atoned for.

We were lovers the first year of our wedded life, and after all
these years we are, no less ardently, lovers still.




CHAPTER VI

THE FIRST REVERSE OF FORTUNE.



The Christmas holidays of 1872 were at hand and I was in full spirit
with the festivities of the season.

My home life was a constant revelation of delight and happiness.

The income from my business had increased to double that of the
previous year, and the future looked bright indeed.

Just at this time came to me in an evil hour a temptation to which
I yielded, and I have always wondered how, under all the conditions
then existing, I could have been so weak.

My accumulations had not been invested, and as I had in my business
no use for capital, the money remained idle in bank.

Crossing the ferry one morning I was joined by a friend in the employ
of a Stock Exchange firm, then well known, but since retired from
business.

I had been thinking of an investment and spoke to him on the subject,
telling him the amount of money I had to invest. I had in mind the
buying of some good bonds.

My friend, who was a most plausible talker, had, I understood, made
considerable money in Wall Street, and when he told me of a movement
in certain stocks then being manipulated for a rise, through his
office, I was at first interested and then carried away with the
desire to enter what seemed such an easy road to wealth.

He told me of several instances where the investment of a few
thousands had resulted in enormous profits. These stories usually
get to public knowledge one way or another, but the other side, the
vastly greater number of cases where ruin and often worse follows,
one does not hear so much of.

Before I went home that day I had bought five hundred shares of stock
and had deposited as a margin five thousand dollars. I was told
that the margin would surely be ample to carry the stock through
any possible fluctuations, that I was not to feel alarmed if I saw
the price go off a point or two, and that I was certain to see a
twenty-point rise within a few weeks.

On my way home that afternoon I, for the first time in my life, read
in the paper closing prices at the Stock Exchange, before reading
anything else.

My stock was up half a point above the price I paid and I experienced
a feeling of jubilation that was very pleasant. I saw in my mind
my five thousand dollars transformed into fifteen thousand.

It was great!

At first I thought I would tell my wife about it, then decided not
to do so, but to wait and surprise her with the good news when the
money was made.

Fatal mistake.

Had I told my wife, as I should have done, she would surely have
advised me to sell out the first thing the following morning and
to let speculation entirely alone.

The following day the price receded a full point Then, for a week,
without any reaction, I watched it decline daily, by fractions,
until my margin was more than half exhausted.

My wife readily discovered there was something worrying me, though
I tried to conceal it, and in her sweet, loving way urged me to
tell her of my trouble. I put her off from day to day, hoping for
a change for the better.

Finally, when the price of the stock had reached a point where there
was hardly anything left of my five thousand dollars, the brokers
notified me I must make a further deposit or they would have to
sell me out. I could have borrowed the money, but I would not do
it, so the transaction was closed and my money lost.

As a matter of fact, which only goes to show what seems to the
small speculator the infernal ingenuity of the stock market, the
stock reacted almost immediately after I sold, and had I held on for
another two or three weeks, not only would I have saved my money,
but would have made in addition a very handsome profit.

Well, the money was gone--and now came the hardest part of it. I
had to tell my wife. I felt that I had wronged her confidence in
not telling her from the first, and this feeling hurt me far more
than the loss of the money.

After dinner that evening, fortunately we were spared from callers,
sitting on the lounge with my arm around her, I told her all. How
practically all I had in the world was gone, through an act of
foolishness I should never have committed.

Then I told her of the feeling that overwhelmed me because I had
not informed her of the matter from the first. While I talked, her
little hand sought mine and from the frequent pressure I knew she
was listening with a heart full of loving sympathy.

When I had finished she raised her head, and after kissing me
fondly, said with a glorious smile:

"Why, my darling, is that all? I thought it was something terrible.
What do we care for the loss of a little money? We have each other
and our love. That is everything."

Then in the sunshine of that love my naturally good spirits returned
and my trouble was forgotten in the joy over this new insight into
the character of my wife.

With determination I resolved that I would devote myself closer than
ever to my business, and set for myself the task of accumulating
another five thousand dollars within a year.

During 1872 I had made about seven thousand dollars, but now nearly
five thousand dollars was represented by experience.

The other fellow had the money.

The holidays had come and gone. We enjoyed them in spite of our
recent reverse.

We did not spend very much money, though we had just as good a time
as if we had done so. I had entirely recovered my mental equilibrium
and had put out of my mind all thought of my financial loss.

Life was moving on in the same delightful channel.  Love was our
bark, and we sailed smoothly, as on a summer sea.

My business during the early months of the year was good, but in
April signs were not wanting of a general falling off in the commerce
of the entire country.

My trade began to feel the effect of the approaching "hard times."
This did not disturb me at first, for I did not think it would last
long, and in any event thought I could safely count on at least as
good a business as in the year previous.

At this period it became evident to me that my father was breaking
down, and that while he might accomplish a little toward the support
of his family, it was not to be depended on, and the burden must
rest on me.

It came at a bad time, but I accepted it as a duty which it was my
pleasure to perform so far as I was able.

Under these conditions we decided to give up our apartment and take
up our residence with my parents.  They, as also my sisters, were
very fond of my wife and she of them, while I was always, from
infancy, accused of being the pet of the family.

As the summer months progressed I realized that beyond a doubt
the hard times were upon us. My customers were buying nothing and
complaining there was not enough business doing to use up the stock
of material they had on hand.

My savings of the first quarter of the year began to dwindle, and
in those days I thought often with regret of my lost five thousand
dollars.

My wife, always the same bright, cheerful, loving woman, encouraged
me to keep up my spirits, and I did, for her sake as well as my
own.




CHAPTER VII

THE COMING OF THE STORK.



By the first of November I had exhausted all my savings, and from
then on knew that if my monthly earnings were insufficient to pay
my expenses, I should have to resort to borrowing money to tide me
over until better times.

A crisis was coming at home that demanded every effort of mine to
have matters there pleasant and comfortable. Under no circumstances
must my wife worry.

Thus I thought, but even yet I did not know the magnificent courage
of the woman.

Each evening when I returned home she greeted me with the brightest
of smiles, and as soon as dinner was over, in our own room, with
my arms around her, she insisted on knowing the history of the day
in detail.

She grasped the situation thoroughly, caressed and encouraged me,
always asserting that everything would come out right in the end.
She had no fear and did not worry.

On the nineteenth of November our child was born.

A boy physically perfect. That his lungs were all right I personally
could swear to, and what sweet music his crying was to my ears when
first I heard it.

A little later I was permitted to enter the room, and did so in
great agitation.

As I kissed my wife and held her hand a few minutes, on her face,
more lovely than ever in her motherhood, was the same sweet smile
and an expression of devotion and love eternal. I looked at the
boy, the new rivet in the chain of love that bound us together,
and then, after another kiss, went quietly from the room.

Heroes, ancient and modern, the world has developed.  Heroines,
also have their place in history, but the heroism of a woman in
ordinary life, in trials physical and mental, is something to be
regarded with awe and reverence.

Our wives! Our mothers! Heroines, all.

The mother recovered quickly her normal state of health and the
boy thrived and grew rapidly.

In March, 1874, I was greatly encouraged by a slight improvement
in business. I had been through a terribly hard winter, and with
the burden of the household on my shoulders had only just succeeded,
by the utmost prudence, in making both ends meet.  With absolutely
no surplus I could not but feel uneasy most of the time.

It was while this was the condition of my finances that my most
intimate friend, the son of a man of some means, approached me on
the subject of getting his brother, then in Europe, but soon to
return, into business.

I knew his brother, but not intimately. I thought he might make
a good business man, and it occurred to me that if he was a hard
worker and his father was willing to buy him an interest in my
business, I might get efficient aid to my efforts and at the same
time get a cash surplus to relieve my mind of financial worry, which
I knew to be very desirable; for a man who has to worry about the
small expenses of living can never do himself full justice in his
business efforts.

Another point that induced me to consider the matter was the desire
of my wife and myself to go to housekeeping.

The relations with my parents and sisters were most pleasant, but
now that we had our boy we felt anxious to set up a modest little
establishment of our own, and indeed my mother advised it, though
she was sorry to have us leave her.

After several interviews with Mr. Allis we came to an agreement
that as soon as his son Thomas arrived from Europe I was to take
him into partnership on equal terms and he was to pay me a bonus
of three thousand dollars.

A couple of weeks later my sign again came down and a new one went
up, reading W. E. Stowe & Co.

With three thousand dollars in the bank my mind was again at ease
and we immediately looked for our new home.

We were offered a very prettily furnished, nicely located house,
a few blocks from my mother's, for the summer at a very low rent.
We decided to take it and not look up a permanent home until fall.

Our housekeeping that summer was a delightful experience and we
knew we should never again be satisfied to board. We were fortunate
in getting a good maid, the boy kept well, we had a cool summer,
business was fairly good and we had soon forgotten the hard times
of the previous winter.

Of course, we were prudent in our expenditures, but we lived well
and did a little entertaining.

In October we rented and furnished tastefully but inexpensively
a three-story and basement house, one of a new row in a pleasant
street, not far from the residence of Mr. Sherman.

While we did not own the house, the fact that the contents belonged
to us gave us a sense of proprietorship that we had not felt in
the house we had recently vacated.

We had enjoyed greatly our shopping for the furnishings and felt
very happy in our new home amidst our household gods.

Our efficient maid was devoted to our boy and to her mistress. The
housekeeping ran smoothly, and although we already began to talk
of the day when we should own our home and of what that home should
be, we were entirely contented and happy.

As the winter approached I began to suffer, slightly at first, with
muscular rheumatism. Not since the days of childhood, when I had
gone through the usual category of children's diseases, had I been
really ill. I always had suffered to some extent with neuralgic
headaches, inherited no doubt from my mother, who was a great
sufferer, and with the advent of the rheumatism these headaches
became more frequent and severe.

I did not regard the trouble seriously and I so enjoyed the
fond nursing and petting of my wife that the pain brought its own
recompense. It soon became evident, however, that I required medical
attention.

First one and then another physician was called upon without
getting relief, the attack recurring at shorter intervals and each
time seemingly more severe. I stood it through the winter, though
suffering greatly, and with the warmer weather my health improved.




CHAPTER VIII

THE NEW PARTNER.



Tom Allis, my new partner, was one of the most peculiar men I have
ever met. In social life he was affable and self-possessed, but
in his business intercourse exhibited confusion and a shyness that
was simply amazing.

Actually and in appearance he was about my age, while in his manner
he was a bashful boy of seventeen.  It was impossible for him to
talk without blushing and appearing extremely embarrassed.

As I had only met him socially, this phase was a revelation to me.
I tried to get him out amongst the trade, thinking that after he
had become well acquainted his embarrassment would be overcome, or
at least partially so. My efforts in this direction failed and he
settled down to a routine office-man, and while he looked after
that end of the business satisfactorily, I could easily have found
a clerk at fifteen dollars per week to do as well.

This was disappointing, but I hoped that as he gained experience
his services would be of greater value to the firm. Meanwhile, I
let him relieve me entirely of the office work.

Tom had been with me only a few months when he came to me for advice
in a matter in which he felt he had become involved.

It appeared he had been calling regularly on a young lady, a pretty
little French girl. I had met her but once and then was impressed
with the idea that she had a temper which it would be unpleasant
to arouse, though I may have done her an injustice.

At all events, Tom said he thought the girl was in love with him;
that probably he had given her reason to believe his attentions
were serious, and he saw no honorable way out except to ask her to
be his wife.

I saw that the boy, so he seemed to me, was really very much
disturbed. I told him before I could offer any advice I must know
every detail, and after learning that not one word of love had ever
passed between them, that their intercourse was really nothing more
than that of intimate friends, and he assuring me that he had not
a particle of love for the girl, I advised him strongly to give up
any idea of offering her marriage and to gently but firmly break
off the intimacy.

He accepted the advice gratefully and acted on it.

A few years later he married the girl, and I presume that he told
her of my share in this matter.  She probably held me responsible
and no doubt influenced him to some extent in a course of action,
referred to farther on in this narrative, that I have always regarded
with regret.

It is a thankless task to advise one in such matters, even though
the one be your friend.

Business continued to improve slowly, but at the end of the year
my partner had drawn as his share of the profits, for the eight
months he had been with me, twenty-two hundred dollars.

He was more than satisfied, and well he might be.

During the winter of 1874 and '75 I had another and more trying
siege of rheumatism. As in the previous spring, with the advent of
warmer weather I found relief, but I knew the disease had become
chronic and it worried me.

This worry, however, I soon dismissed from my mind to make room
for one more formidable and pressing.

Hard times were coming again and there were two now to divide the
profits.

The furnishing of our home had absorbed a good portion of the three
thousand dollars I had received from my partner, and my living
expenses together with what it was necessary for me to do toward
the support of my parents and sisters exhausted my income.

My always-cheerful and devoted wife, and my boy, just arriving
at an interesting age, made home so attractive that I was able to
forget business when away from the office.

Each morning with the parting caress came words of loving encouragement
that did much to support me through the day, and at night on my
return home, my greeting from wife and boy always dispelled the
clouds hanging over me.

I was happy, infinitely so, despite the business worry.

My physicians had advised my leaving Brooklyn for a dryer atmosphere.

We had a lease of our house until the spring of 1876, but had
decided that then we would try country life.

Many hours were passed pleasantly in discussing the plan and its
probable results. My wife's fertile brain would paint to me in
pleasing colors what the country home should be--the cottage and
its coziness, the garden, the lawn and flowers, my health restored,
the benefit of country life to the boy, and the relief to my mind
through largely reduced living expenses.

We were eager for the time to come to make the change.

On the twelfth of December our second child was born. My first boy
had a brother, and again my wife, noble woman, gave testimony of
her great love.

No trials that came to her prevented the outpouring of that love
to me.

She knew how I needed her fond encouragement, particularly at that
period, and she gave it to me daily, always with the same sweet
smile and tender caress.

That winter will never be forgotten by me for the torture which I
suffered from the almost nightly attacks of that awful rheumatism.
Medicine did not seem of any use.

Night after night until long past midnight my devoted wife, with
ceaseless energy, would apply every few moments hot applications
to relieve the cruel pains, until finally I would fall asleep for
a few hours' rest.

I lost flesh rapidly, and when spring came was hardly more than a
semblance of my former self.

It was indeed time that I should shake the dust of Brooklyn from
my feet.

Before the winter was over we had commenced to scan the advertising
columns of the daily papers for "country places to rent." We wanted
if possible to get a place in the mountainous section of New Jersey.
I wanted to get away from air off the salt water and this section
of the country seemed the best.

It must be healthy and at a low rent. For the rest we must take
what we could get at the price we could pay.

Our search ended in our taking a place of about six acres, five
minutes' walk from a station on the Morris & Essex Railroad, between
Summit and Morristown.

On the property was a farm-house more than one hundred years old,
and this the owner repaired and improved by building an extra room
and a piazza across the front of the house.

The rent was two hundred dollars a year. We moved there early in
April. The last night in the Brooklyn house I had one of my worst
attacks of rheumatism. _I have never had the slightest twinge of
it since._

Blessed be New Jersey!




CHAPTER IX

SUBURBAN LIFE.



We had been in our new home but a very few days before we were
quite in accord with the sentiment that "God made the country and
man made the town."

The house in its exterior was the ordinary, old-fashioned,
one-and-a-half story farmhouse, improved by a piazza; but the
interior, under the deft hands and good taste of my wife, had an
appearance both home-like and cozy that was very attractive.

We had to get accustomed to the low ceilings, only seven feet
high; but this did not distress us, though in our parlor, a room
twenty-eight feet long, the effect was always peculiar.

The grounds around the house were not laid out.  It was simply a
case of a house set on a little elevation, in the center of a rather
rough lawn, and without a path or a flower-bed, no shrubs and but
few trees.

I hired a man with plow and horse for a day or two and we made
a path from the piazza to the road, set out an arbor-vitae hedge,
made two or three small flower-beds, and had the kitchen-garden
ploughed.

The man planted the potatoes and corn in a field next the garden,
but the kitchen garden was my hobby, and with all the enthusiasm
of a child with a new toy I took personal possession of it.

About an acre in extent, fenced and almost entirely free from even
small stones, the soil was rich and productive. I met with wonderful
success, and the crops that I raised, in their earliness and size,
astonished the natives.

Every pleasant morning I was up at five o'clock, and after a bowl
of crackers and milk, worked for two or three hours. Then a bath,
followed by breakfast, and after a day in town, which, owing to
dull business, I made very short, I was back in the afternoon at
work again.

How I did enjoy those days.

In the early stages my wife used to laugh at me for digging up
the seed to see if it had sprouted, so impatient was I to see the
growing plants.

We had an ice-house, filled for us by the owner without charge, and
in melon season I picked the melons in the morning and left them
in the ice-house all day.

My mouth waters at the thought of those delicious melons.

The fact that I raised everything myself, practically by my own
labor, added greatly to our enjoyment in the eating.

The walk between house and station was for most of the distance
through a private lane which was in part shaded by large trees.

The quaint old village, one of the oldest in the State, was interesting;
but not so the people, at least to us. It was a farming community,
and of social life there was none.

Still, we felt that no privation. We had found what we sought--a
pleasant, comfortable home, my return to good health, and economical
living.

During the first year of our residence in the country our entire
expenditure was but thirteen hundred dollars, which was fully three
thousand dollars less than the year previous.

A few of our most intimate friends were invited occasionally for
visits of a few days, and these little visits we always enjoyed;
but to each other my wife and I were all-sufficient, and in the
dear little home there was never a feeling of loneliness.

It was truly "love in a cottage."

During the summer, about once a week, I would hire from a farmer
a horse and rockaway, and with wife and babies take a drive, our
favorite ride having as an objective point a visit to the old Ford
mansion, Washington's headquarters at Morristown.

There is certainly no section of country in the vicinity of New
York city that can compare in natural beauty with Morris County,
New Jersey, and we commanded the best of this, in rather antiquated
style of equipage to be sure, but at the small cost of half a dollar
for "all the afternoon."

Thinking of that old carriage recalls to mind an incident of later
years which so impressed me I shall never forget it:

With my wife I was spending a few days at Old Point Comfort, and
while we were there John Jacob Astor and his bride arrived, on
their wedding tour.

The hack service at the Point at that time was about the
worst imaginable. The hotel had none, and a few old negroes with
disreputable "foh de wah" vehicles and horses that could only get
over the poor roads by constant urging, picked up a few dollars by
driving guests of the hotel to the Hampton School.

One afternoon when there were just two of these hacks standing in
front of the hotel, I engaged the better one.

As a matter of fact, the only difference I could see was that the
one I selected had been washed probably at least once that season,
whereas the other appeared to be plastered with the dried mud of
ages.

We drove to the school and on our return met the other hack on its
way there.

The hackman had disappeared, and in his place, driving positively
the worst-looking turnout I ever saw, was John Jacob Astor with
his bride sitting beside him.

The spectacle of that man, with his social position and his enormous
wealth, driving under such conditions, struck me first as ludicrous
and then as a living example of the great leveling power that in
the end makes all men equal regardless of wealth or position.

My boys were thriving in the country air, living out of doors
most of the day. With only one maid, my wife had no difficulty in
keeping busy while I was in town, and the summer passed quickly
and pleasantly.




CHAPTER X

MY PARTNER RETIRES



Matters at the office had been going badly for many months and any
improvement in prospect was too far distant to be discerned.

My partner was absolutely useless to me except as a clerk, and indeed
a good clerk would have been better, for I could have commanded
him to do things that I could only request of my partner, and I
had long since learned that these requests carried no weight unless
they were in the line of duty that was agreeable to him.

On first taking up my residence in the country I felt it necessary,
in consequence of poor health, to remain at home a day or two each
week, but I soon had to abandon this custom, for on such days there
was nothing accomplished.

Orders by mail and wire which should have had immediate attention
were held over until the following day, and this of course could
not be permitted, without jeopardizing the business.

When I would ask Tom why he had not been out in the trade instead
of remaining at his desk all day, the only satisfaction I could
get was his statement that the trade treated him as boy and he did
not like it.

I knew but too well that the trade sized him up about right.

He meant well enough, but it simply wasn't in him to assert himself.

He had been with me a little over two years and during that time
his share of the profits had returned him the three thousand dollars
he had invested and in addition paid him what would have been a
good salary for the services rendered.

As he was unmarried and lived with his parents, paying no board,
a very small business would give him an income sufficient for his
requirements, and apparently he was contented to let matters go on
as they were.

What might be considered easy times for him with no responsibilities,
was for me, with a wife and two children, parents and two sisters,
to provide for, an impossible proposition.

Something had to be done to change the status.

I waited until the first of September in hopes of some sign of
better times, but business looked worse rather than better, and I
decided to make him an offer for his interest. I thought best to
put this in writing, and while doing so went fully into our affairs
and endeavored to show him how impossible it was for me to go on
any longer under existing conditions. Incidentally I emphasized
the fact that after more than two years' experience he was still
unable to accomplish anything that could not be done by a clerk.

Then I made him an offer of two thousand dollars to be paid in
monthly instalments of fifty dollars each, without interest, the
first payment to be made in January. For these payments I offered
him my notes.

I had written this on Saturday morning, and having finished while
he was at luncheon, laid it on his desk and took my usual train
home, which gave him an opportunity to think the matter over until
Monday.

When we met on Monday morning I was not surprised to find him in
a bad temper.

He said at once that he declined my offer, and having paid his
money to come into the concern he proposed to stay.

I told him I was sorry I could not see my way clear to make any
better offer and it was that or nothing. If he would not accept
it, then the only alternative was for me to step out and leave him
the business.

This suggestion startled him. He knew he could not carry on the
business without me.

After going to his father's office for consultation he returned
and said he had decided to accept my offer. "As to those notes,"
he said, "you may give them to me if you like, but I don't suppose
you will ever pay them."

We terminated our partnership that day, but I continued the business
under the same style, W. E.  Stowe & Co., complying with the legal
requirements governing such action.

While Allis was my partner, on more than one occasion, when we were
discussing the wretched state of business, he would call himself
a "Jonah," and in the light of later developments it really looked
as if such was the fact.

When we separated, unquestionably the outlook was most gloomy.
I could not see a ray of light ahead, and without the constant
encouragement of my wife, who always insisted that brighter days
were in store for us, I might have given up the ship.

Before I had been alone a month an improvement was perceptible, in
another month it was more decided, and by the end of the year there
was no longer any doubt that an era of good times was approaching.

Those notes for two thousand dollars given Allis, and which he
thought I would never pay, carried no interest. There was no reason
I should anticipate the payments if I did not wish to. Probably he
would have been glad to have me discount them. I had forty months
in which to pay them. I paid them all in full within six months.

I thought he would appreciate my doing so.  Quite the contrary.

Of course my prepayment so far in advance of maturity was evidence
of my prosperity.

He, in his small soul, could not but believe I knew this prosperity
was coming and had forced him out of the firm, just in advance of
its arrival. I met him in the street frequently and noticed the
change in his manner. A few weeks later he did not return my bow
and we have since been strangers.

When I heard shortly after of his engagement to the little French
girl, I concluded that his envy of my success and her prejudice
for my share in the temporary cessation of his intimacy with her
had cost me a friend. And yet it surely was through no fault of
mine.




CHAPTER XI

A YEAR OF SUNSHINE



The year 1878 was to me a memorable one.

The improvement in business the previous year had been sufficient
to enable me to pay my indebtedness to Allis, meet all my current
expenses, and enter the new year with a good balance in bank.

My health had become entirely restored, and with mind free from
worry life was indeed well worth the living. The home life, happy
under adverse circumstances, was of course made more enjoyable by
my improved financial condition.

The little rivulet of prosperity of 1877 broadened in 1878 to
a stream, small at first, but ever widening and leading on to the
sea.

On the second of July there was born to us our first daughter.

My wife and myself were delighted with this latest arrival from
love-land. We had looked forward with fond anticipation to the event,
and our hearts' desire was that a daughter should be added to the
family circle. The blessing had come to us and we were grateful.

What shall I say of the mother of that little daughter?

What can I say that would do justice to her love and devotion?

It is said "there is no love like a mother's love." True, but with
all reverence to my own sainted mother, there is another love that
has come to me, the love of a wife for her husband, that I cannot
but maintain is the greatest of all.

How completely that little baby girl ruled the household was soon
in evidence. For the time being she was queen and we her loyal
subjects, anxious to do her honor. The little brothers were more
than pleased to have a sister and rivaled each other in their
efforts to entertain her.

The mother was proud of her girl and I--well, to tell the truth,
I was deeply in love with the entire family.

Our lease of the place had expired in April but I arranged to keep
it until the first of October.

We felt warranted, in our improved circumstances, in seeking a
better home, amidst refined surroundings, and had concluded to make
a change in the fall. We did not want to give up country life.  My
wife and I enjoyed it and we knew it was best for the children.
Our desire was for a house with modern conveniences, neighbors,
pleasant, cultured people whose society we could enjoy.

On my trips to and from the city I had observed from the car window
a section of country not far from where we were then residing, and
as the few houses I could see were modern, the elevation high and
beautifully wooded, we thought it worth while to investigate.

With my wife I drove there one afternoon and we were both surprised
and delighted at what we saw.

A gentleman of wealth had purchased many hundreds of acres of
land, and after building for himself a handsome home had commenced
development of the property for residences of the better class.

There was nothing of the cheap real estate scheme about the place.
The owner would sell or rent only to such people as he deemed
desirable.

Although the water supply and sewerage system had been established,
miles of roads built, a handsome railroad station erected, and
a large Casino in course of erection, there were at that time but
six houses completed.

Knollwood was to be a park, and as a unique feature no two houses
were to be alike. How successful it has been is shown by the fact
that to-day there is no more beautiful or flourishing residence
park in the vicinity of New York.

As a result of our visit to the property, an arrangement was made
for a house to be built for us on a lease of three years, and we
were permitted to select the plans of the house, its site, and the
interior decorations. Work was to commence at once and possession
given us in April, 1879.

Not wishing to spend another winter where we were, we returned
to Brooklyn and remained with my parents until the new house was
completed.

When we commenced our packing preparatory to leaving the little
farm, as we called it, there was a feeling akin to homesickness.

We had been very happy and great blessings had come to us while
there. The dear little baby girl, my health, prosperity in worldly
affairs--all this and the thought of how the place had been a sort
of lovers' retreat, where I had my wife all to myself most of the
time, made the homely old farm-house seem something sacred.

We could not but feel a little sentimental over it all.

The garden, the arbor-vitae hedge, planted with my own hands, and
now tall and almost impenetrable, the play-house which I built in
the orchard for the children, all had to be visited with a feeling
of saying good-by to old friends.

There was hardly a summer for years after that we did not at least
once drive down the old lane and look over the place where our
country life had commenced, and I shall have for it always a tender
spot in my memory.

When, at the end of the year, the books were closed at the office,
I was pleased to find that I had made a little over twelve thousand
dollars.

It had taken me eight years to catch up to the point where Mr.
Derham left off, but I had finally succeeded.

As I was but twenty-eight years of age, I congratulated myself with
a little self-conceit that was perhaps pardonable.

It had certainly been a hard up-hill fight.




CHAPTER XII

AN IDEAL LIFE



As the new house was approaching completion we found much pleasure
in occasionally going to Knollwood for an hour or two, to look it
over.

Our having selected the plans and site made it seem as if it
belonged to us and our interest in its development was great. The
kitchen was in the basement. On the first floor was a square entrance
hall opening into parlor, dining-room, and library.  There were
four bed-rooms and bath-room on second floor and above that a maid's
room and attic.

While the house was not large the rooms were all of comfortable
size. For heating, in addition to the furnace, there were several
open fire-places, a great desideratum in any house. In its exterior
the style was something of the Swiss cottage.

The grounds consisted of about an acre in lawn with a few flower-beds
and a number of fine trees.

In April we moved into the new house. Some additions had been made
to our furnishings, and when all was in order we agreed that in
our eyes there was no other house in the world quite so pretty.

It was a case of "contentment is wealth," and we were perfectly
contented.

[Illustration: "Sunnyside"]

Of course we must have a name for the place.  Every one does that,
in the country, and we were not to be the exception. One of our
boundary lines was a brook and we decided on "Brookside Cottage."

The stationery and visiting cards were so engraved, when, alas,
a few weeks later our brook dried up and we had to select another
name.

At this time, where the brook had been, a new line of sewer was
laid, and my wife suggested "Sewerside," but after punishing her
with a kiss for her bad pun, I suggested "Sunnyside."

The name was adopted and to this day the place has retained it.

"Sunnyside" was not the only house in Knollwood completed that
spring. There were several others, and when the summer commenced
there resided there a little community of delightful, congenial
people. Most of them were of about my age, and with the exception
of the owner of the Park, of moderate means. Probably at that time
I enjoyed a larger income than any of them.

Wealth cut no figure in that community. We all respected each other
and met on the same social plane, regardless of individual means.

While we liked them all, we became particularly intimate with two
of our immediate neighbors, the Woods and the Lawtons, who had come
to the Park at the same time as ourselves.

This intimacy became a strong and close friendship, so much so that
it was very like one family.  The children of the three families
fraternized and almost every disengaged evening found the parents
gathered together in some one of the three houses, which were
connected by private telephone.

In its social elements Knollwood was peculiarly fortunate. The
people were bright and entertaining.  In a number of instances
musical talent, both vocal and instrumental, was of a high order,
and there was also a good deal of amateur dramatic talent.

Taking this combination and an inspiration on the part of each
individual to do what he or she could for the entertainment of
all, one can readily see that much pleasure might be derived in
Knollwood society.

The facilities for making use of the talent we possessed were
excellent. We had a beautiful casino, with a stage well equipped
with scenery, and during the first four years of our residence
there more than fifty performances were given, each followed by a
dance. A Country Club was organized for out-door sports and there
was something going on continually.

The life at Knollwood in those days was to my mind ideal.

The beauty of the place, its facilities and conveniences are still
there, improved and increased. Its social life, now on a totally
different scale, has expanded to meet the tastes of the people.
With the large increase in population came the break in the circle.
Cliques defining the difference, not in culture or refinement,
but in wealth, have developed. The old charm of every resident my
friend, is lacking.  Gossip, unknown in the early days, showed its
ugly head in later years.

It is the way of the world. All struggle to gain wealth. Those
that succeed, with but few exceptions, sneer at those who are left
behind, and what does it all amount to in the end? One can enjoy
it but a few years at most.

I have in my career come into more or less intimate contact,
socially and in a business way, with many men of great wealth. In
some instances, where the wealth was inherited, the past generation
had paid the price of its accumulation, but I doubt if any of those
who have given up the best of their lives in the struggle to attain
their present position and wealth, now that they possess it, get
out of it anything like the degree of happiness and contentment
that was in evidence in those early years in Knollwood.

And what has it cost them?

Long years of struggle and worry, continual mental strain that
has prevented the full enjoyment of home life, a weakened physical
condition, old age in advance of its time, and more, far more
than all this, in at least one instance of which I have personal
knowledge, and I presume there have been many others, the disruption
of a family that would never have occurred had the husband given
less time to his struggle for wealth and more to the wife whom he
had vowed to love and cherish.

She, poor, beautiful woman, left much to herself evening after
evening while her husband was at his club or elsewhere planning
with allies his huge business operations, fell a victim to a fiend
in the guise of a man.

When that husband looks at his children, deserted by their mother,
he must think that for his millions he has paid a stupendous price.

Wealth brings with it fashionable life. Of what horrors the fashionable
life of New York is continually giving us examples, the columns of
the daily papers bear witness.

Is the "game worth the candle"?




CHAPTER XIII

PROSPEROUS DAYS



My business in 1879 returned me nearly sixteen thousand dollars,
a satisfactory increase over the previous year.

My wife and I had become much attached to "Sunnyside," and as the
owner was willing to sell it to us for just what it had cost to
build, plus one thousand dollars for the land, we bought it. We
then spent eleven hundred dollars in improvements, and when finished
our home had cost us sixty-five hundred dollars.

It was certainly a very attractive place for that amount of money.
To be sure it was only an unpretentious cottage, but a pretty one,
and the interior had been so successfully though inexpensively
treated in decorations and appointments that the general effect
attracted from our friends universal admiration.

As our neighbor, Charlie Wood, put it on his first inspection,
we had succeeded in making a "silk purse out of a sow's ear." His
remark rather grated on us, but it was characteristic of the man
and we knew it was simply his way of paying us a compliment.

In January a broker in the trade, not a competitor for the reason
that he was a specialist in a line that I did not cover, gave me
a large order, for future delivery.

He told me it was a purchase on speculation for himself and another
party whom he named, and that not only should I have the resale
but they would give me one-eighth interest in the transaction.

Up to that time I had never been interested to the extent of a
single dollar in the markets in which I dealt as a broker nor had
I any speculative clientage, I was certain the operation would be
successful provided they did not hold on for too large a profit
and overstay the market. I accepted the order as he offered it,
but stipulated that I should have the right at any time to close
out my interest in the deal.

The purchase was made and a few weeks later long before time
for delivery, I found a buyer who would pay a clear ten thousand
dollars profit. In vain I urged them to accept it. Then with their
knowledge I sold my interest and secured my twelve hundred and
fifty dollars.

They held on, took delivery at maturity, and finally after several
months I resold for them at a loss of nearly forty thousand dollars.

In the negotiations I came into personal contact only with the
broker. The other party was a wealthy Hebrew merchant then doing
business on Broome Street. He was at that time supposed to be
worth possibly a million and was just getting in touch with my line
of trade. A few years later he became a most important factor and
still later was allied with Standard Oil interests.

At his death in 1902 he left to his heirs many millions of dollars.
I attended his funeral and truly mourned and respected the man,
for while for many years we were active business competitors, in
the days of trouble he was one of the very few ready to extend a
helping hand.

In the first three months of 1880, including my profit in the
transaction just mentioned, I made six thousand dollars. I was now
in a position where if hard times came I could accept them with
reasonable complacency.

My success had broadened my views and given me a keener insight
into the possibilities of my business.  I became convinced that in
earning capacity it was about at the top notch.

There were several features then becoming prominent that led
me to this conclusion. The Standard Oil Company had absorbed all
the refining concerns and had then established its own broker. It
paid him a salary for his services and he paid to the Company the
brokerages he collected from the sellers.  I had been doing a large
business with the constituent companies which would now cease. The
leading firm with which my relations had been most intimate had
taken into its employ as a confidential man my most active competitor
and I knew his influence would work against me to the utmost. New
competitors, young men who had been clerks in the trade, were coming
into the field. Then a movement looking to a reduction in the rate
of brokerage was being agitated.

I had no doubt about being able to keep up with the procession,
but it looked to me as if the procession would be too slow and if
it was to be a funeral march I proposed to look on rather than take
part.  I had been through the stages of creeping, then walking,
and now I wanted to run.

The problem was before me and I thought I saw the solution.

The business being done by brokers covered several different
articles. The most important of these, that is, the one on which
the most brokerages were earned, happened to be the one article
that the Standard Oil Company was the largest buyer of, that the
leading firm was most interested in, and that the talk of reduced
brokerage was aimed at.

My plan was to drop that entirely and also everything else except
one particular staple commodity in which I would be a specialist.
I had for two or three years done a large business in this and had
made a profound study of that branch of the trade.

It was yet in its infancy but I believed in a rapid and important
growth. How rapid that growth has been is shown by the fact that
in 1879 the consumption in the United States was less than five
thousand tons. It has increased every year since and is now thirty-six
thousand tons per year.

Another point that decided me on the commodity I was to handle
exclusively was its adaptability to speculative operations. In
London for many years it has been a favorite medium of speculation
and I believed I could build up a speculative clientele and thereby
largely increase my brokerage account.

As business continued good through the spring and early summer I
concluded to delay my action until the fall. Each month I was adding
to my surplus and there was no need for haste.




CHAPTER XIV

NEAR THE DARK VALLEY



It was the middle of July. After a most oppressively hot and a very
busy day in the city I returned home with a feeling of weariness
that was unusual, my head ached badly. At dinner I ate but little
and then retired early. My wife petted and nursed me until I had
fallen asleep. After a restless night I was too ill to rise in the
morning.

Our physician was called in and his first diagnosis was nothing
serious, but he advised my remaining at home for a day or two and
taking a much-needed rest.

Twenty-four hours later he pronounced my illness congestion of the
brain.

Ten years of close application to business, much of the time under
a great nervous strain and no rest, had brought its day of reckoning.

For nearly three weeks I was confined to my bed.

My wife, aided by our faithful physician, Doctor Burling, who often
when I was delirious remained with me throughout the night, nursed
me with constant and untiring devotion. While she accepted the
efficient aid of one of my sisters, she would not consent to a
trained nurse, so long as the doctor would advise it only on the
ground of relief to her.

Her love for me was all-absorbing and no hand but hers should
administer to my wants. For hours at a time she stroked the poor
tired head, until her gentle caresses soothed me to brief intervals
of rest.

How she stood the strain, especially when as the crisis drew
near life seemed slowly but surely ebbing, I do not know. I never
opened my eyes that they did not rest on her sweet face, smiling,
cheerful, her own fears hidden from me that she might give me the
courage which the doctor said must be maintained.

Slowly and when it seemed as if the end was nigh, the tide turned--the
brain cleared, restful sleep came, and my life was saved.

Doctor Burling had done everything that science, skill, and
faithfulness could accomplish, but the nurse was the Guardian Angel
who brought me out of the Dark Valley just as its shadows were
closing around me.

My convalescence was slow, but as soon as my strength permitted,
with my wife I went to Block Island for a few weeks. There I gained
rapidly.

We took no part in the hotel amusements but kept to ourselves,
spending our days reading and chatting on the shore in the shade
of the bluffs and retiring early for long restful sleep at night.

Block Island is a beautiful spot and we enjoyed our visit there
greatly. It is to be expected that at a summer hotel in the height
of the season, if a young couple go off day after day by themselves,
never mingling with the other guests nor participating in their
pleasures, that some comment would be excited, but we were much
amused when, the day before we left for home, the major-domo came
to us and said, "I understand you are going to leave us to-morrow
and I want to tell you, before you go, that the people in the house
call you the model bridal couple of the season"--and we had three
children at home!

On my return to the office early in September I found it was
time for me to perfect my plans for the contemplated change in my
business. During my absence very little money had been made. My
clerk, I at that time employed but one, had done his best, but as
my business was a personal one, my presence was necessary to its
success.

The change entailed much labor. Lists of names must be compiled,
covering all the buyers in the United States and Canada. These had
to be prepared with great care and arranged in classes. There were
consumers, dealers, railroad purchasing agents.  There were the
small and the large buyers in each class. To get these lists required
many hours spent in searching through "Bradstreet's," and it was
a work I could not delegate and consequently had it to do myself.

The various forms for daily mail quotations were to be arranged
and printed, also a complete telegraph code for the use of customers.

Then, too, a vast amount of statistical information had to be gone
over and a basis taken for the circulars which I meant to issue
to the trade semimonthly.  The detail seemed endless, but by the
first of October all was in readiness and the change was made.

Before the month was over I became convinced that my move had been
a wise one. I had practically no competition worthy of the name
and I was finding new customers every day.

So successful was the business from the start that with the help of
those last two months of the year my income in 1880 was twenty-one
thousand dollars, and this notwithstanding the fact that I had lost
two months through my illness. It was really the result of but ten
months' business.

On the ninth of November when I returned from the city it was to
find that our family circle had again widened, and at "Sunnyside"
all hearts were open in joyful greeting to another little girl.

My wife as she returned my caress and exhibited to me this fourth
jewel in her crown, noticed that I was agitated, and with the smile
and the intention of calming me with a joke, said, "Darling, are
not two pair a pretty good hand"? We neither of us play poker, but
I could appreciate the joke.

What a joyful holiday season we had that year!

As we drank at our Christmas dinner a toast to the health, happiness,
and prosperity of all our friends, we felt that we ourselves were
getting our full share.

My wife, beloved by all, had become a sort of Lady Bountiful to the
poor of a neighboring village, and the thought of the many others
we had made happy that day added zest to our pleasure.




CHAPTER XV

A SUCCESSFUL MANEUVER



Elation expressed my feeling at the result of the change in my
business. The material benefit already was demonstrated and the
mental satisfaction at the correctness of my judgment added much
to the pleasure of reaping the profit.

Apparently 1881 was to be a banner year.

My firm was growing rapidly into prominence.  From Maine to California
and throughout the Canadas we were now well known.

I say we, for as my readers will remember, in 1876 when my partner,
Allis, retired, I continued doing business as W. E. Stowe & Company,
though I never after had a partner and all acts of or reference to
the firm will be understood as relating to myself individually.

Our statistics, in the absence of any official figures, were accepted
by the trade as an authority, and in the foreign markets also, so
far as the American figures were concerned, they were regarded in
the same light.

As the business between London and New York was large and I foresaw
that it must increase greatly I was desirous of having a London
connection. A dozen reputable firms were open to me but I was
ambitious. I looked forward to become the leading firm in the trade
in this country and I wanted a connection with the leading firm in
London.

This firm had been for some months consigning occasional parcels
to a large banking house. The bankers sold through any broker. A
share of the business came to our office but it was unimportant.  I
wanted it all, not so much for its present as for the future value.

So far as this market was concerned I knew we were in a position
that was unique.

We enjoyed the confidence of the large importers and dealers and
were in close touch with the consuming trade throughout the country.
Our facilities for getting information as to stocks in the aggregate
and individually were unequalled. The large consumers posted us in
advance of what their requirements would be for certain periods.
If the large city dealers were manipulating the market it was done
through our office and we knew their plans.

Information of this character must be of value to the London firm
and we knew it was not getting it.

That was my keynote.

I wrote the firm a newsy, chatty market letter, saying nothing of
doing business together. After that first letter I never let a mail
steamer leave New York that did not carry a letter to the firm from
our office.

While those letters gave enough information to show the recipient
our position in the trade, I wish to emphasize the fact that not
one word was written that in the remotest degree was a violation
of any confidence reposed in us by our New York friends.

The weeks went by and we received from the London firm--nothing.
Finally came a brief communication acknowledging with thanks our
various letters and requesting their continuance, ending with an
offer, if at any time they could be of service to us in the way of
giving information on their market, to reciprocate.

To this I replied with a request that the monthly European statistics,
which the firm published, should be cabled us at the end of each
month that we might publish them with ours.

This request was complied with, and thereafter we kept up our letters,
always endeavoring to make them more interesting and occasionally
receiving brief letters in acknowledgment.

This one-sided correspondence continued for several months, then I
wrote that we purposed forming a London connection and would much
prefer to do so with their firm if open for it. If not, we should
of course be compelled to cease our advices and make an arrangement
with some other firm.

As I had hoped, the taste of our quality had encouraged an appetite
for more, and after brief negotiations an arrangement was entered
into by which we controlled the firm's business in the American
markets.

It proved a very profitable arrangement for both firms.

With this London connection secured I had taken the last step
necessary for doing business on the broadest scale.

The wheel had been built starting from the hub, the tire was
elastic, and as the spokes lengthened the circumference became so
large that we were gathering force with each revolution and all
the business in sight was coming our way.

Up to this time I had done nothing in the way of seeking speculative
customers and I now began to think seriously of doing so.

The field was large, the only difficulty was to get people who had
been accustomed to speculate in grain, cotton, and petroleum to
try a new commodity.  I knew the opportunities for money making,
but it was necessary to convince the speculator that the chances
of gain were better, the possibility of loss less than in the
well-known great speculative commodities of the age.

I commenced the preparation of educational literature with which
I meant to circularize the country.  I did not want the small fry,
the little speculator with only a few hundreds or thousands of
dollars.  What I was after was men of financial ability and the
nerve to go into large operations and see them through to a finish.

Before I made a move, our first speculative client put in an
appearance.

He was in the trade, senior partner of the largest firm in Baltimore,
and no argument from us was necessary. Calling at the office he
gave us an order for his individual account, the transaction to be
carried in our name.

It was not a large order, the margin he deposited with us being
but two thousand dollars.

When the transaction was closed and we returned him his margin,
we had the pleasure of including in our cheque thirty-nine hundred
dollars profit, after deducting our commissions, which amounted to
five hundred and seventy-five dollars.

This experience gave me a hint I was quick to take. If an individual
member of one firm in the trade would speculate, why not members
of other firms? The ethics of the case, the propriety of a partner
speculating on his own account in a commodity in which his firm
was dealing, did not concern me.

Here was a field I had not counted on and I determined to explore
it before going to the general public.

I had one hundred letters mailed in plain envelopes to individual
members of the larger firms which we were regularly selling. The
result astonished me. This was in December, 1881, and before the
following February sixty-seven of the men written to had accounts
on our books.

Some of the novel experiences in this branch of the business will
be related in a later chapter.

As I had anticipated, 1881 was a banner year.  My profits were
nearly twenty-eight thousand dollars.




CHAPTER XVI

"REDSTONE"



"Sunnyside" had become too small for us.

Our life had been so happy there we could not bear to think
of leaving it. I had an architect look the house over and prepare
plans for an extensive addition.

This was done, though he strongly disadvised it.  I could not but
admit the force of his argument that it was foolish, regarded from
an investment point of view, to expend on the place the amount
I contemplated.  Far better to sell and build a new house was his
opinion.

Then we talked of moving the house to another plot and building on
the old site. To this there were two objections. The site was not
suitable for the style of house I wanted and there was too little
land, with no opportunity to add to it as the land on either side
was already occupied.

The matter was settled by the appearance of a buyer for "Sunnyside,"
at a price that paid me a fair profit, and I made the sale subject
to possession being given when the new house was completed.

[Illustration: "REDSTONE"]

Within a stone's throw of "Sunnyside" was a plot of land, a little
less than two acres in extent that we had always admired. I bought
the land for five thousand dollars and the architect commenced at
once on the plans.

We thought that the new house was to be our home for the rest of
our days and naturally the greatest interest was taken in every
detail. The first plans submitted were satisfactory, after a few
minor changes, and ground was broken on July 2d, 1881.  How we
watched the progress.

From the time the first shovelful of earth was taken out for the
excavations until the last work was finished, not a day passed that
we did not go over it all.

"Redstone," taking its name from the red sandstone of which it was
built, was, and is to-day, a fine example of the architecture then
so much in vogue for country houses.

The Matthews House on Riverside Drive, New York City, so much
admired, was designed by the same architect and modelled after it.

Standing on a hill its three massive outside chimneys support a
roof of graceful outlines and generous proportions. From the three
second-story balconies one gets views near and distant of a beautiful
country. The fourteen-feet wide piazza on the first floor, extending
across the front and around the tower, with its stone porte cochere
and entrance arch is most inviting. With grounds tastefully laid
out, driveways with their white-stone paved gutters, cut-stone
steps to the terraces, great trees, and handsome shrubs the place
was a delight to the eye, and at the time, of which I write there
was nothing to compare with it in that section.

Through a massive doorway one enters a hall of baronial character,
thirty-three feet long, eighteen feet wide, and twenty-one feet
high, finished in oak with open beam ceiling and above the high
wainscot a rough wall in Pompeian red.

Two features of the hall are the great stone fireplace with its
old-fashioned crane and huge wrought iron andirons and the stained
glass window on the staircase, a life-sized figure of a "Knight of
Old."

This hall was illustrated in Appleton's work on "Artistic Interiors."

On the right is the spacious drawing-room in San Domingo mahogany
and rich decorations in old rose and gold, and back of it the
large library in black walnut with its beautifully carved mantel
and numerous low book-cases. Then came the dining-room in oak and
Japanese leather and a fountain in which the gold fish sported--but
enough of description.  This was our home and when we had completed
the appointments they were tasteful and in keeping.

We moved in on April 28th, 1882. Here then we were settled for
life, so we said. If a new painting was hung or a piece of marble
set up we had the thought it was there to remain.

We loved the house and everything in it. We loved the friends we
had made. Our life was all that we would have it--peaceful, happy,
contented.

[Illustration: "REDSTONE"--LIBRARY]

My craving for books has always been a trait in my character and
with the commencement of my prosperity I began to form a library.
I had no taste for rare editions.

My model for a book is convenient size for reading, good type
and paper, fine binding, and illustrations, if any, the best. My
wife was in full accord with me in this as in everything. Wedding
anniversaries, birthdays, and Christmas always brought me from
her something choice in literature and I soon had hundreds of fine
volumes of standard works on my shelves.

They were not allowed to remain there untouched.  We both read much
and aimed to cultivate the taste in our children.

For autographs, I cared not as a collector, but I love to read
a book that has, bound in, an autograph letter from the author or
from some character in the book. Many of my volumes were so honored.

Of course in the case of authors of a past generation, these letters
were purchased, but most living authors of my time were good enough
to respond to my requests with a personal note and with some of
them I enjoyed an acquaintance.




CHAPTER XVIII

OUR NEIGHBORS



When we moved to "Redstone" we had been residents of Knollwood
three years, long enough to become thoroughly acquainted with the
characteristics of each individual in our social circle.

While with all our relations were cordial, it is essential in this
narrative to refer only to the three families with which we formed
a close friendship.  These were the Woods, Lawtons, and the new
owners of "Sunnyside," the Slaters.

Frank Slater was a partner of Mr. Wood. Without exception he was the
most attractive man I have ever met. Possessing in a high degree
every attribute of a true gentleman, he had withal a genial, winning
way that was peculiarly his own and made every one who knew him his
friend. We were drawn to each other at once and soon became most
intimate. His wife, a woman charming in every way, became my wife's
intimate friend.

Charlie Wood was rather a queer combination.  That we were fond
of him and he of us there is no doubt, but he was a man of moods.
Intellectual, a good talker, and an unusually fine vocalist, his
society as a rule was very enjoyable, but there were times when in
a certain mood he was neither a pleasant nor cheerful companion.

Perhaps a remark which he made to me one day at "Sunnyside" will
show better than anything I can write the true inwardness of the
man.

We were discussing some business affair of his, over which he was
feeling blue. I was trying to cheer him up, when he said, "I tell
you, Walter, I could be perfectly contented and happy, no matter
how little money I had, if everybody around me had just a little
less."

George Lawton, a jolly, good-natured fellow, was liked by everybody,
and his wife, a pleasant, cheerful, good-hearted little woman, was
equally popular.

The Lawtons were the least prosperous of any of our little circle.
George was always just a little behind in his finances, but so
constituted that this did not worry him.

The time will come in this narrative when the author will be upon
the defensive and he deems it necessary that his readers should
fully understand certain relations existing within this circle
of friends, even though, that they shall do so, he is compelled
to violate the scriptural injunction, "Let not thy left hand know
what thy right hand doeth." [Footnote: Under ordinary conditions
the author would never think of advertising to the world the good
that he has done. Before the conclusion of this narrative there
will be much that is far removed from the ordinary. Errors to atone
for, misunderstandings to explain, false innuendos and charges to
indignantly deny and disprove. It is the narrative of a life and
the good in that life is certainly a part of it. In later chapters,
when certain matters are set forth, my readers will be good enough
to bear this in mind.]

The Woods and Lawtons came to Knollwood together. They were intimate
friends before that time. Not one detail of the affairs or life of
one but was known to the other. It was the same as one family only
under two roofs.

George Lawton was always in need of money.  His expenditures
exceeded his earnings year after year and he borrowed to make up
the deficiency.  Wood was as well able as I to loan him the money
and as a closer and an older friend should have been the one to do
it.

On the train one day, when sitting together he said to me, "Walter,
how much does George owe you"? To which I replied, "Oh, a small
matter." It was at that time nearly six hundred dollars.  "Well,"
he said, "I am glad you can help him out, but he don't get into me
more than two hundred dollars; that's the limit, for I doubt if he
ever pays it back."

I went on with my loans just the same, and when, some years later,
the family left Knollwood he owed me more than two thousand dollars
that had been borrowed in small amounts.

At one time George was fortunate in getting an interest in a patent
motor for use on sewing machines.  He told Wood all about it and
of one weak feature in connection with the battery, which, however,
he thought was about overcome.

Without telling George, Wood at a small expense employed a man who
succeeded in perfecting the battery, then going to George, said:
"You cannot use your motor without my battery. I will turn it over
to you for half your interest."

There was no escape, and though George made some thousands out of
his interest his profits were cut in half by the shrewdness of his
friend.

He never said much about it, but his mother, who resided with him,
was very outspoken on the subject.

In 1883, in connection with my business, I established a trade
journal. After running it a few years I could no longer spare the
time. It was then paying about eighteen hundred dollars a year
profit and was capable of doing better. I offered it to George
Lawton, telling him if he ever felt he could pay me a thousand
dollars for it, to do so.

The day I turned it over to him I gave him a few hundred dollars,
remittances for advertising received that morning. In a few years
he sold the paper, and in one way and another he secured twelve
thousand to fifteen thousand dollars out of it.

He never paid me one dollar for the property, nor did I demand it
of him.




CHAPTER XVIII

AN UNEVENTFUL YEAR



The year 1883 was uneventful.

At home, life moved on serenely in its accustomed channels. We were
very happy and did all we could to make others so.

For the summer months, thinking that a change might be good for the
children, we rented a cottage at Oyster Bay. This was a pleasant
experience, but we were glad to get home early in the fall. Our
elder son was now nearly ten years old, the school at Knollwood
was not satisfactory, and we entered him at the Academy at Media,
Pennsylvania. His mother and I went over with him, and though the
little fellow was brave enough to keep a stiff upper lip when we
said good-by, I knew he was homesick, and so were we. It was a very
hard strain to leave him behind us.

Business had fallen off a little during the first half of the year,
but this was made up later and I did about as well as in the year
previous, making a little over twenty-five thousand dollars.

I had taken no further steps toward seeking speculative clients,
as the trade speculators who had come in were sufficient in number
to absorb all that class of business I cared for in the market
conditions then existing.

Some of the incidents in that business are well worth relating.

We had one case where the president of one of the largest manufacturing
concerns in Connecticut was the client. His concern was a regular
customer of ours and we were carrying for him some speculative
contracts not yet matured. The market was against him a few thousand
dollars, and when he called one day I suggested his buying an
additional quantity at the lower price to average his holdings.
"Average nothing," said he, "if when that stuff comes in there is
any loss on it, I bought it for the company."

There was a loss and under his instructions we made delivery to the
company. This looked like a "heads I win, tails you lose" sort of
game for him, but as he owned most of the stock in the company it
was very like taking money out of one pocket and putting it in the
other.

Another episode, still more peculiar, was in the case of the firm
of A & B.

The firm had placed in our hands for discretionary sale a parcel
of fifty tons due to arrive in November.

Shortly after, A called at the office and gave us an order to sell
for his individual account fifty tons November delivery. He was a
bear and it was a short sale.

The same day and before the sale had been made B called and gave
us an order to buy him fifty tons November delivery. He was a bull.

Both requested that his partner should not be informed of the
transaction. We matched the orders, selling for A to B. A closed
his transaction first, and to cover his sale we sold him the lot
belonging to his own firm. This was to be delivered to B and we
then sold it for him.

Thus we had made commissions on sales of one hundred and fifty
tons where there was only fifty tons of actual stuff, the rest all
book-keeping.

In all the years in which we handled this business we had but one
unpleasant experience in connection with it.

The treasurer of a manufacturing concern had been dealing with us
on his own account for some months, always with profit to himself.
The day came when he was not so fortunate. The market was against
him and we called on him for additional margin. He asked for a few
days' time, and as we had every reason to suppose he was responsible
we granted it. Meantime, the market further declined, and when
he put in an appearance at our office his account was about three
thousand dollars short.

To our surprise he said he could not pay a dollar.

When asked where all the profits we had paid him had gone he replied:

"Wall Street."

The man died shortly after, and although he left an estate of
fifty thousand dollars, he also left a large family and we waived
our claim.




CHAPTER XIX

THE STREAM BROADENS



At the beginning of 1884 our business was increasing so rapidly
it became necessary to have a larger office force to handle it.
Orders poured in day after day and it was evident we were getting
the preference from all the large and most of the small buyers
throughout the country.

It had been our policy to give just as careful attention to the
small business as to that of more importance, but we now began to
consider the wisdom of letting the former go. In the aggregate it
was a handsome business of itself, but in detail it required so
much time and attention, it was a question in my mind whether it
paid us to longer cater to it.

That the future had a much larger business in store for us we felt
assured and we wanted to get ready for it in advance of its coming.
Gradually we commenced to weed out the little fellows.

Some of these small concerns had become so accustomed to sending
us their orders and were so well satisfied with the way we had
treated them that they objected strongly to being turned down.
Still, we were in the line of progress and had outgrown that class.

The argument we gave them was, that as we were selling the large
dealers so extensively, it was unfair for us to take this small
business, which ought to go to the dealers without the interposition
of a broker. Ultimately we succeeded in getting most of them off
our books without any hard feeling.

That we were wise in ridding ourselves of this small trade was
soon evident. It strengthened us greatly with the large dealers,
who now secured most of it direct, and that we could afford to part
with so many customers, small though they were, added much to our
prestige.

With more time now at my disposal I mapped out a campaign having
for its objective the gathering of a speculative clientele.

The first step was the sending of a carefully prepared letter to
a dozen or so of the wealthiest men in New York. No replies were
received. Probably their secretaries tossed them in the waste-basket
with many others. I know now better than I did then that the mail
of even moderately rich men is crowded with schemes.

A second lot of letters was mailed to men a grade lower in wealth.
Some of these brought replies but no business. We tried a third
lot, this time to men estimated at half million to a million; same
result.

That settled it as far as New York was concerned.  Evidently the
rich men of New York did not want to speculate in our commodity.
Well, fortunately we could get on without them.

Now for the broader field. We had one thousand letters prepared
and mailed at one time. These were addressed to a list of alleged
wealthy out-of-town investors, which we had purchased from an
addressing agency. Not one single reply did we receive.

Then we took our "Bradstreet's" and at random selected the names
of five hundred firms, scattered over the United States, rating not
less than five hundred thousand dollars. The letters were addressed
to the senior partner of each firm. Before the end of the year
nearly two hundred of those men were on our books. Every one of
them made money.

This constituency was sufficient for the time being.  I had in mind
something on a much larger scale, the forming of a syndicate; but
that is another story and belongs to a later period.

Toward the later part of the year there was a falling off in our
trade with the customers, owing to a period of dullness in the
manufacturing industries; but what we lost in this way was more
than offset by the gain accruing from the business with speculative
clients.

On December 3lst, I had the satisfaction of knowing that for the
first time my profits for a single year exceeded thirty thousand
dollars.

In my home life there had been nothing to mar in the slightest
degree its serenity and delight; indeed, our happiness had been
increased on the ninth of June by the arrival of our third daughter.




CHAPTER XX

RETROGRESSION



Although the conditions of general business were unsatisfactory at
the beginning of 1885 and I had much doubt of the year proving as
profitable as the one previous, I never dreamed of such a falling
off as actually occurred.

Our legitimate trade, that carried on with dealers and consumers,
we thought would be poor for some months, as it had been over-done,
and all our customers were well supplied with spot stock, as also
contracts for future delivery; but the speculative element we relied
on to compensate us for this.

Our clients had done well and we expected they would continue their
operations. We did not in our calculations make allowance for the
fact that these men were all in active business. As a rule, such
men do not go into outside matters when their own business is dull
or unprofitable. It is in good times, when they are making money,
that they enter the speculative field.

Before the winter was over our books were entirely cleared of
speculative contracts.

We thought of making efforts to secure new customers but decided
it would at that time be useless, for if men who knew the business
and had made money at it were unwilling to go on, it was hardly
possible to enlist the interest of people who knew nothing about
it.

Month after month I saw the business decrease, but took
it philosophically. I could afford to wait for better times and
meanwhile did not worry, knowing that we were getting more than
our share of what business there was.

These dull times were not without their compensation.

They brought me the opportunity to go off with my wife on little
trips of a few days' duration. What delightful trips those were!
Newport, Narragansett, Nantasket, Swampscott, Manchester-by-the-sea,
Newcastle, and all the pretty places accessible via Fall River
boats--these were the most attractive, for we enjoyed the sail
and disliked train travel in warm weather. Frequently some of our
friends accompanied us, but oftener we went alone.

What jolly times we had!

Then, too, in this dull year I made my business days shorter, a
late train in the morning and an early one home in the afternoon
giving me so much more time with my family.

Oh, it was a great year!

For better times I could wait with patience. I was not money-mad,
not eager for the accumulation of great wealth; my real fortune
I had already gained in the wealth of love bestowed upon me by
the woman I adored. I valued money for the good it would do, the
comfort and pleasure it would bring to those I loved; but for the
reputation of having it, not at all.

I wanted to succeed. I felt I had succeeded.

In my twentieth year under the largest salary I was ever paid, my
income was five hundred dollars--in my thirty-fourth year it was
thirty thousand and earned by my own efforts, out of a business
that I alone had created; for the business of that time bore no
relation whatever to the one in which I succeeded my old employer.
Surely I had cause for congratulation, no matter how dull business
might be for the time being.

Knollwood had been growing these years with astonishing rapidity,
and our social circle was now a fairly large one.

The characteristics, so attractive the first year of our residence
there, were still unchanged. The newcomers were all nice people
and the right hand of good-fellowship was extended and accepted in
the true spirit.

In addition to the many beautiful new houses there had been erected
a small but very pretty stone church of Episcopalian denomination.

At the time the building of the church was planned, I remember a
conversation on the subject that afterwards seemed prophetic.

I was talking on the train with a gentleman, an officer of the New
York Life Insurance Company, who, while he did not reside in the
Park, lived in the vicinity and mingled socially with our people.
I told him we were going to build a church.  "What"? he said. "Don't
do it; you have a charming social circle now that will surely be
ruined if you do." I expressed surprise at his remark, and he only
shook his head and with more earnestness added, "Mark my words,
that church will be the commencement of social trouble; cliques will
form, friction and gossip will arise, and your delightful social
life will be a thing of the past."

It is a fact that his words came true, and yet I contributed to
the cost of the building and support of the church, and under the
same conditions would do it again.

At the end of December I found my income had been cut in half.
I had made but fifteen thousand dollars, but the year had been so
enjoyable in my home life I was entirely satisfied. The additional
time dull business had permitted me to spend with my family was
worth all it cost.




CHAPTER XXI

THE DAM GIVES WAY



Dull business, the dam which checked the onward flow of the stream
of our prosperity in 1885, was slowly but steadily carried away
in the early months of 1886. Consumers and dealers again became
liberal buyers and their lead was soon followed by the speculative
fraternity. Our office was crowded with business and a further
increase in the clerical force was imperative. Long hours and hard
work was the rule, while resulting profits continually mounting
higher was the reward.

Our customers as a class were a fine lot of men, all of substantial
means, most of them wealthy.  We had no friction, we were popular
with all, and other things being equal we commanded the preference
from almost the entire trade.

Of course, some competition had developed--our success was sure to
attract it; but it was still of insignificant proportions, and we
gave it no thought.  We had been first in the field and our position
was well entrenched.

As to the speculative branch, there we had no competition. It required
banking facilities and credit to do that business, Our competitors
had neither, while we were prepared to handle any proposition that
might be presented, regardless of the amount of money involved.

Our London connection had now become very valuable to us and was
the source of a good proportion of our profits. Business between
the two markets was of almost daily occurrence, while the quantities
dealt in were large. Our speculative customers were of great help
to us in this direction and indeed we could not have properly taken
care of them if we had depended on the New York market alone. They
had increased in numbers, and finding the business profitable their
individual operations became more important.

How true it is that "nothing succeeds like success."

Our success had become known by this time, not only to every one
in the trade, but also to many outside of it. Large banking houses,
known to us at that time only by reputation, sought our business,
offering most flattering terms and unusual facilities.  Friends,
acquaintances, and not a few strangers begged of us to accept large
amounts of money for speculative operations at our discretion.
Large consumers discontinued asking us for quotations and sent us
their orders without limit as to price. So great was the confidence of
the consuming trade in our judgment that a letter from us advising
them to cover their requirements for any specified period never
failed to bring the orders.

With our speculative clients this was even more pronounced. We had
but to say "Buy," and they bought; "Sell," and they sold. All this
was a great responsibility and we realized it, never forgetting
that only the utmost conservatism would maintain our position. That
I was proud of that position was only natural.

Business activity was maintained until the close of the year, and
again I had made a record. My profits were thirty-six thousand
dollars.

Our social life at Knollwood this year had been going on at a rapid
pace and its more formal character began to take shape.

The frequent pleasant little dinner-parties of four to six couples,
where bright and entertaining conversation was general, had gone
through a course of evolution and become functions where two or
three times the number sat at the board and struggled through so many
courses that one became wearied of sitting still. Those enjoyable
amateur dramatic performances, followed by light refreshment and
a couple of hours' dancing, had been displaced by the grand ball
with its elaborate supper. But there still remained one feature,
unique and delightful:

The New Year reception--every New Year's day for many years
a reception was held at the Casino.  The residents, loaning from
their homes rugs, draperies, paintings, statuary, and fine furniture,
transformed that large auditorium into an immense drawing-room. The
green-houses contributed palms and blooming plants in profusion. In
the enormous fire-place burned great logs. At one end of the room
a long table from which was served, as wanted, all that could be
desired by the inner man. The stage, set with pretty garden scene
and rattan furniture, where the men lounged as they had their smoke.
Music by a fine orchestra, interspersed with occasional songs by
our own local talent.

The reception was from six until nine, then the rugs were gathered
up, the furniture moved from the center of the floor, and dancing
was enjoyed until midnight.

For miles around, every one that was eligible never failed to
be present on those occasions. It was the one great social event
of each year, and long after the circle was broken the custom was
still kept up, until finally it died out owing to the indifference
of the new-comers. For such a community it was a beautiful custom,
and in its inception served to cement the spirit of cordiality and
good-will.




CHAPTER XXII

THE CALM BEFORE THE STORM



The new year opened as the old one had closed, with marked activity
in all branches of my business; nor was there any perceptible change
until late in the spring, then began a gradually diminishing demand
that made a comparatively dull summer. Not but what there was a
fair amount of business doing all the time, but the great rush was
over.

It was only the calm before the storm. Early in the fall it became
evident to me there was a new factor in the market. Somebody, outside
the regular trade, was quietly buying up the odd lots floating
around.

The buying was not aggressive, far from it.  Whoever was buying
wanted the stuff, not a higher market. The greatest caution was
observed in making the purchases so that the market might be affected
as little as possible. Every effort was made to conceal the source
from which the demand emanated.  I knew it was not from any of the
New York trade, and I could not believe, judging from the broker who
was doing the buying, that it could be for account of any American
speculator. If I was right in this conclusion, then of necessity
it must be for foreign account.

In order that my readers shall fully understand what follows it is
necessary they should know the basis of our arrangement with our
London friends, which was this:

They were to cable us daily limits for buying or selling as the
case might be. These limits included our commission. We were to
guarantee our customers, that is to say, the London firm took no
risk of buyers. If we were to sell a parcel for future delivery
and before the delivery was made our customer should fail we would
have to stand the loss, if any, on the re-sale.

A few months after the connection was established the firm found
fault because so little business was done, while in many cases the
limit was so close to the market that only the commission or part
of it stood in the way of a sale.

The original arrangement was then qualified and thereafter the limits
were sent net, it being understood that when necessary we would
sell at limit, that is, do the business for nothing; but to offset
this concession, we were at all times to have for our commission
all we could get over the limit.

It proved a most fortunate change for us.

The buying continued and the market moved slowly toward a higher
level. After a few days steady buying there would be a cessation
for a day or two to allow the market to sag, then it would commence
again. The principal sellers were our London friends, and though we
were earning many commissions we felt that our friends were making
a mistake and not gauging the market correctly.

At this time our Boston correspondent offered us one hundred tons
to arrive by sailing vessel due in about three months. We secured
refusal over night and cabled the offer to London, advising the
purchase and expressing fully our opinion of the market.

The following morning I sat at my desk, and opening a cable read,
"Market advanced through operations of a few weak French speculators."
Then followed a selling limit. I laid the cable down and took up
the Boston telegram offering the hundred tons.

With the exception of my small interest in that purchase in January,
1880, I had refrained from speculation, and now I was considering
whether or not I should buy those hundred tons. The option had
nearly expired and action must be prompt.  Calling a stenographer
I dictated a telegram, "We accept"--and the deed was done.

On arrival of the vessel I sold out at a profit of twenty thousand
dollars.

My profits for the year were sixty-one thousand dollars.

On February fourteenth, as a valentine, there came to "Redstone" our
fourth daughter and the family circle was complete. With two sons
and four daughters, the ban of "race suicide," theory of President
Roosevelt, rests not on us.




CHAPTER XXIII

"A FEW WEAK FRENCH SPECULATORS"



Just outside of the city of Paris was located one of the largest,
most complete manufacturing plants in the world, doing an enormous
business, employing an army of skilled artisans, consuming vast
quantities of raw material and making in profits a fortune every
year.

The controlling interest was a man of large wealth, estimated at
sixty millions of francs, and of national reputation. His gallery
of paintings was famous in art circles the world over. His family
moved in the highest strata of society and in their magnificent
home entertained with regal splendor.  The man was universally
respected in business, in art, and social circles.

On the board of directors of one of the great Paris banks were two
other men, almost equal in wealth and station to this manufacturer.

These three men, with a few associates of minor importance, entered
into a hare-brained scheme of speculation in our commodity, that
in the very nature of things was bound to terminate in complete
failure. When they realized this and the enormous losses which had
been entailed, in an effort to recoup they took up another commodity,
and then followed the wildest speculation, in any merchandise, that
the world had ever seen.

When the final crash came, with their own magnificent fortunes
swept away and the bank involved, the two directors found suicide's
graves, and the other man went to prison.

Oh, the folly of it! This passion and greed for wealth.

"Market advanced through operations of a few weak French speculators"--so
read our cable. It seemed to us that their strength was far more in
evidence than their weakness, indeed of the latter we could detect
no sign. They had by their purchases advanced the market already
fifteen or twenty per cent and they continued buying in all the
world's markets, at advancing prices, everything that was offered.

The increased price was commencing to tell on consumption. Dealers
and consumers ceased buying until their surplus stocks had become
exhausted, and then bought in small lots only as they were compelled
to. Meanwhile, stocks in the hands of the syndicate were accumulating
rapidly with no visible outlet for reducing them.

A feature in the trade which alone should have been sufficient to
prevent men of brains from going into such an operation was that
the production could not be contracted for in advance. The high
price stimulated production and day after day the syndicate had to
buy in the producing markets large quantities at current prices.
These purchases at such high figures rapidly increased the average
cost of the holdings.

The market advanced by leaps and bounds, until finally the price
in London reached one hundred and sixty-seven pounds sterling per
ton, with an equivalent value in all other markets. This represented
an advance of more than one hundred per cent.

Then the members of the syndicate awakened from their pleasant
dream to find a nightmare.

The hand of every man in the trade throughout the world was raised
against them. They were in the meshes of an endless chain. For
every ton they could sell they must buy five, or more, in order to
sustain the price. If they stopped buying, even for a single day,
the bottom would drop out. What was to be done?

In Wales was an industry, comprising many mills, that in the aggregate
consumed large quantities of the article. The business had become
almost paralyzed by the advance, and many mills were about to or
had closed down. A representative of the syndicate communicated
with all these mills and negotiated a contract for supplies covering
requirements to April 30th, 1888.

The only possible way of making such a contract was by guaranteeing
that the spot market should not fall below the price then ruling.
This meant that every day the syndicate must bid (pounds)167 per ton for
all the spot stuff the market would sell--but, it stopped buying
futures. As fast as the stuff could be brought to market it had to
take it, but only as it arrived.

That was the first step. But there was still an enormous stock to
be disposed of, together with all that would have to be taken, up
to the end of April.  How was that to be sold?

Our London friends had fought the syndicate from the start with
the utmost vigor. The plan of campaign was to load them with such
quantities that the burden must become too heavy to carry.

The London firm usually carried a large spot stock. This was poured
into the syndicate in parcels, at advancing prices. Then all the
little markets on the Continent were scoured and every ton available
brought to London and disposed of in the same way.

The agent of our friends, in the producing market, bought large
quantities daily. It was a six-weeks' voyage to London. In the
interim there would be a heavy advance in price and as soon as the
steamer arrived the syndicate had to buy these lots. There was no
escape. The leading member of the syndicate went to London and a
secret interview with our correspondent was arranged. His widely
known antagonism to the syndicate made him the only man who could
build a bridge for that unfortunate combination to cross on. He
made his own terms, they were accepted, and that was the beginning
of the end of the syndicate's operations in our commodity.




CHAPTER XXIV

EXCITING TIMES



The year 1888 from start to finish was one whirl of excitement
in my business life. The mental effort of handling the enormous
business--it must be remembered ours was a one-man concern--was
most exhausting. I became weary of making money and longed for a
dull period that I might rest. But there was no dull period that
year.

In January we received from our London friends confidential
information of the arrangement with the syndicate.

Its enormous holdings were, so far as possible, to be unloaded on
American buyers. This was for us to accomplish. The spot stock had
to be sold against for future delivery and held until maturity of
the sales. Of course, the sales were made at a discount from the
spot price, and as time went on this increased. When the buyers at
one level were filled up, the price was lowered until a new level,
that would tempt further buyers, was reached, and so it went on.

The trade conceived the idea that our London friends and ourselves
were selling the market short.  They never dreamed that we were
unloading for the syndicate, which was daily bidding (pounds)167 for spot,
while we were selling futures far below that figure.  They did not
know that at four o'clock London time, when the official market
closed on the thirtieth day of April, the syndicate would cease
buying and that a collapse would then be inevitable. It was not
our business to enlighten them, and strange to relate, not one man
asked us our opinion of the market.  They bought of us day after
day and apparently believed that when the time for delivery came
we would be unable to make it and would have to settle with them
at their own figure.

A great many of our sales were made on the Exchange. On this
business we could and did call margins, but there were some weak
people whom we could not avoid selling and in such a market there
were sure to be failures among that class.

As previously explained we guaranteed all sales, and whenever a
customer defaulted we at once sold double the quantity we had sold
him, to some strong concern. This made us short of the market, and
while we made some loss on the initial transaction, our profit on
the second sale always more than extinguished it.

The first man who defaulted brought to our office a deed for a farm
in Pennsylvania and offered it to us for the four thousand dollars
he owed. I handed it back to him, told him to give it to his wife,
and forgave him the debt.

The next man was a bigger fish. He owed us nineteen thousand eight
hundred dollars. We made up the account, and when I handed him
the statement I told him we would not press him and if he was ever
able to pay us twenty-five cents on the dollar we would give him a
receipt in full. In later years he was worth a good deal of money,
though I believe he has since lost it, but he never paid us a
dollar.

After him came a few small men, who altogether owed us perhaps ten
thousand dollars. We told them all if they ever felt able to pay
we would be glad to have the money, but would never press them for
it.

Of the whole lot, only one ever paid. His account was only a few
hundred dollars, and I had forgotten it, when one day he called at
the office, said his father had died, leaving him a little money,
and he wanted to pay us. He asked, "What rate of interest will you
charge me"? I replied, "Nothing; and if you cannot afford it, you
may leave us out entirely." He insisted on paying the principal.

Our treatment of these people was not good business in the general
sense. We could have put them all off the floor of the Exchange
and to a small degree it would have been to our advantage to do so,
but they had our sympathy in their trouble and we could afford to
lose the money.

The weeks flew by and we were approaching the end of April. The
discount on future deliveries was now enormous. In London (pounds)167 was
bid daily for spot and we were selling futures at (pounds)50 discount.
Under normal conditions futures should be at a slight premium over
spot.

In London in 1888 the last business day of April was on Friday; I
think it was the 29th. Saturday the market was closed, and as Monday
was a holiday, the first business day of May was on Tuesday.

Just before the gavel fell at the London Exchange at four o'clock
on Friday, (pounds)167 was bid for spot and the syndicate ceased buying.
On the curb, five minutes later, there were sellers, but no buyers,
at (pounds)135; but this price was not official. The last official price
was (pounds)167. On Tuesday morning the first offer to sell spot was at
(pounds)93 and the market had collapsed.

The losses were frightful. On the last day of April and on the first
two or three days of May we made all of our April and part of our
May deliveries on contracts. The differences between the contract
prices and the market on those deliveries amounted to three hundred
thousand dollars and we had thousands of tons yet to be delivered
over the summer and fall months. Fortunately the losses fell upon
firms well able to stand them and there were no failures.

We had a very narrow escape from slipping up on the last of our
May deliveries.

Through some misunderstanding the London steamer by which the stuff
should have reached us.  sailed without it. It was then rushed to
Liverpool and shipped by the Oceanic of the White Star Line.  The
steamer arrived at New York on the afternoon of the 29th; the 30th
was a holiday, and we had to make our delivery before two o'clock
on the 3lst.  Meanwhile the stuff must be taken out of steamer,
weighed up and carted to store, warehouse receipts and weighers'
returns delivered at the office and invoices made out, all of which
took much time.  Through our influence with the steamer people
and the expenditure of a little money, work was carried on day and
night and the deliveries went through all right.

As our profit on that lot was thirty thousand dollars it was a
matter of some importance.

When the syndicate commenced operations in the second commodity,
a large New York firm, with foreign branches, in order to conceal
its operations requested us to act for it as a selling agency on the
Exchange, all the business being done in our name.  The commissions
on this account ran into large figures and contributed materially
to my income that year.

An incident in connection with this business, showing how good
fortune was favoring us at that time, I will relate:

One of our sales for future delivery was a lot of two hundred
thousand pounds. After 'Change it was, with the other transactions,
reported to the firm. When, the following morning, the contract
was sent to the buyer, he returned it, claiming it was a mistake
and that he had not made the purchase.  Having reported the sale
the day previous and the market now being a little lower, we did
not like to explain the matter to our principal and let it stand
as a purchase of our own.

Before the time for delivery matured, we resold at a profit of
exactly ten thousand dollars.

By midsummer we had accumulated a large sum of money. In addition
to this capital of our own, our resources through our credit with
banking connections made it easy for us to accept a proposition
from a certain firm to finance for it on very liberal terms an
operation which the firm had undertaken.  This was in a commodity
of which we were well informed though not doing business in it.

The operation proved a failure and in October the firm suspended.

We were carrying an enormous quantity of the stuff, and when
liquidation was completed had made a loss of sixty-eight thousand
dollars, of which we never recovered a single dollar.

At the end of the year, after charging off all the losses, amounting
to about one hundred thousand dollars, I had made a net profit of
one hundred and twenty thousand dollars.




CHAPTER XXV

"COME AND DANCE IN THE BARN"



Although very fond of horses and driving it was not until 1888 that
we indulged ourselves in that direction.

When we built "Redstone" we planned where we would put the stable
when ready for it, but were in no hurry about building.

For fast horses I had no liking. My taste was for high-stepping
carriage horses. A pair that could pull a heavy T-cart with four
people eight or nine miles an hour and keep it up without urging,
were fast enough in my opinion. I wanted high-spirited, blooded
animals, fine carriages, and perfect appointments.  Until I could
afford such, I preferred to go without.

In the spring I bought a pair of Black Vermont Morgans. They were
beauties and the whole family fell in love with them at once. For
the summer I secured the use of a neighbor's unoccupied stable
and then commenced the erection of my own. After this was finished
I matched my first horses with another pair exactly like them and
also bought a small pony for the younger children and a larger one
for the boys.

It was not long before I had trained my horses to drive either
tandem, four-in-hand, or three abreast, and with an assortment of
various styles of carriages my equipment was complete.

From the Paris-built drag carrying eight passengers besides my two
men, down to the pony cart, everything was of the best. All was in
good taste and expense had not been considered.

My combination carriage-house and stable was architecturally a
very handsome building, and in its interior every detail, useful
and ornamental, had received careful attention. The building cost
me about seven thousand dollars, but judging from its appearance
and size my neighbors thought that my investment was larger. As
it approached completion I suggested to my wife the idea of giving
a barn-dance, something unique in the annals of Knollwood.  We
immediately went into a committee of two on plans and scope and as
a result evolved an evening of surprise and delight for our friends.

The invitations, engraved in usual note-sheet form, had on the upper
half of the page a fine engraving of the front of the stable, and
beneath in old English, "Come and dance in the barn." We received
our guests in the hall and drawing-room, fragrant with blooming
plants. From a rear piazza a carpeted and canvas-enclosed platform
extended across the lawn to the carriage-house. The floor had
been covered with canvas for the dancers. Brilliantly illuminated,
in addition to the permanent decorations, a life-sized jockey in
bronze bas-relief and numerous coaching pictures, was the work of
the florist. The large orchestra was upstairs surrounding the open
carriage trap, which was concealed from below by masses of smilax.
The harness-room was made attractive with rugs and easy chairs for
the card players.

[Illustration: "OFF FOR A DRIVE"]

In the stable each of the six stalls had been converted into a cozy
nook where soft light from shaded lamps fell on rugs and draperies.
On each stall post was a massive floral horseshoe. The orders of
dancing, besides the usual gold-embossed monogram, bore an engraving
of a tandem cart with high-stepping horses and driver snapping his
long whip. Attached to each was a sterling silver pencil representing
the foreleg of a horse in action, the shoe being of gold. Supper
was served in the dining-room from a table decorated in keeping with
the event, the center-piece being a model in sugar of the tandem
design on the order of dancing.

The affair was a great success in every way, and the following
evening we allowed our colored servants to entertain their friends
at the stable. With a few of our neighbors we witnessed the "cake-walk"
and found much fun in it. The next day the horses were in possession.




CHAPTER XXVI

AN IMPORTER AND DEALER



While during 1888 we were nominally brokers, a considerable portion
of our business was actually in the nature of that of an importer
and dealer. This position was really forced on us by circumstances
beyond our control. To protect ourselves from loss in our sales
for London account we had to take from time to time an interest in
the market and this made us dealers. To complete our sales we were
compelled to import the material and thus became importers.

With the opening of the year 1889 we found ourselves possessed of
fairly large capital and a firmly established credit with bankers.
These facts, combined with the best facilities for doing the
business, decided us to eliminate the brokerage phase entirely,
except in our transactions with our speculative clients. From that
time on we bought and sold for our own account.

We had a very large trade with consumers throughout the country,
and we knew we had but to say the word to increase this by calling
back all the small buyers with whom we parted company in 1884. As
brokers we did not care for that small trade, but as dealers it
was an entirely different proposition.

Of course as soon as the New York dealers learned of our new
departure they would give us sharp and active competition for the
orders, but we felt so strong in our position we did not fear it.

We made no public announcement, but quietly bought the necessary
spot stock in the cheapest market, and as soon as we were ready,
when the orders came to us, filled them ourselves instead of passing
them on to the dealers as heretofore.

Only a few days passed before the dealers, missing the orders they
had been accustomed to receive through our hands, commenced to
investigate.  When questioned we told them frankly what we were doing.
At first, argument was used to dissuade us from such a policy, but
when we were told we had no right to the business I replied that
we were not dealing in a patented article and I knew of no law to
prevent us from trading as dealers if we so desired.

That ended the argument, and men who for years had been in close
business intimacy and friendship with us, became our enemies.

I knew well what that meant. Henceforth I was to get my share of
the personal animosity that in this trade superseded the spirit of
fair competition.

Those men held up before the world as models of Christian piety, who
never missed a church service, whose names appeared in the papers
as subscribers to charitable and mission funds; those Sunday-school
teachers who would not have in their homes on the Sabbath day
a newspaper, who would not take a glass of wine at dinner because
of the example to their boys, and yet in their efforts to injure a
business rival never hesitated to break the Ninth Commandment--not
in words, oh no, too cautious for that, nothing that one could
put his finger on; but the shrug of the shoulder, the significant
raising of the eye-brows, the insinuation, the little hint to
unsettle confidence. Bah! on such Christianity.

And now those men were to train their guns on me.

I had been twenty years in the trade and knew how others had fared.
I grant, in many cases, it was tit-for-tat, the man injured had
done his best to injured others. With _few exceptions_ the entire
trade were "birds of a feather."

We had not long to wait for the first shot and it fell very flat,
the honors in that engagement all being with us.

A broker had offered us a parcel for future delivery at a price he
thought cheap and we accepted it.  Later he called and said when
he gave up our name as the buyer, the seller declined to confirm
unless we would deposit with him, the seller, five thousand dollars
as security.

This concern knew we were perfectly responsible, but took this
method of discrediting us, expecting that the broker would help
the matter on by gossiping through the trade about it.

We heard his story and then said to him, "Go back and say to your
principal that we will not deposit with him one dollar; but if he
will deposit with any trust company five thousand dollars, we will
deposit twenty-five thousand against it."

The seller declined to deposit anything and the sale was cancelled.
The broker did gossip about it, but as his account of the incident
was correct, it added to our prestige.

Every now and then we would hear of something that one or another
of our competitors had intimated to our discredit, but treating
all such rumors with silent contempt, we kept up the even tenor of
our way and closed the year with a profit of seventy-two thousand
dollars.




CHAPTER XXVII

SAD HEARTS AT KNOLLWOOD



The spring of 1890 brought with it two great sorrows.  Following
closely on the death of my beloved mother came the death at "Sunnyside"
of Frank Slater. The latter was unexpected in its suddenness and a
terrible shock to all his friends. I had become so deeply attached
to Frank that he seemed like a dear brother and my grief was most
profound.

The day after his death, Mr. Pell, Mrs. Slater's father, asked me
to represent the family in the settlement of the business affairs.
There was no will and there were many complications.

Mr. Pell, entirely without reason, I thought, had not the fullest
confidence in Frank's partner, Mr.  Wood. He did not believe he
would be any too liberal to the estate in the settlement of the
firm's affairs. It was in compliance with Mr. Pell's earnest request
that I took charge and my doing so was entirely acceptable to Mr.
Wood.

Although I regret the test of my reader's patience, it is essential
to my defense in certain matters to be related in later chapters,
that the complications and settlement of this estate should be set
forth. In reading these pages I beg that the footnote on page 112
may be remembered.

The business of Wood and Slater for several years had been the
acquiring and holding of certain corporate properties, some of which
the firm managed.  With the exception of one property, a recent
acquisition, the interest of each partner was defined by the
individual holdings of stock. In the one property referred to the
interest was equal but the stock had not been issued.

At the time of Mr. Slater's death he had a joint liability on the
firm account in certain notes which had been discounted at the
firm's bank, and also in a loan made to the firm by the Standard
Oil Company.  His individual liabilities were nearly seventy-five
thousand dollars. Only a few of these need be specified.

For several years he had profitable business relations with me and
carried an account in our office, drawing on it at his convenience.
At the time of his death this account was overdrawn nine thousand
dollars. In addition our name was on his paper, falling due after
his death, to the extent of eleven thousand dollars. Another
liability was a note for forty-seven hundred dollars discounted by
a Pennsylvania banker, a personal friend. There was also an agreement
to refund to a friend under certain conditions ten thousand dollars
which he had invested in a manufacturing plant in Connecticut which
Mr. Slater was backing.

The assets consisted almost entirely of the interest in the
corporate properties which the firm had acquired and stock in the
Connecticut concern. There was also a library which realized, when
sold at auction, about five thousand dollars.

The real estate was in Mrs. Slater's name and belonged to her.

In the most valuable properties of the firm Wood & Slater owned but
two-thirds interest, the remaining third being held by the original
owner, a Mr. Mallison.

This gentleman, possessed of considerable means, was a creditor
of the estate to the amount of about sixteen thousand dollars. I
found that he was disposed to buy the estate's interest in these
properties and finally sold it to him for one hundred thousand
dollars. An additional consideration was the securing through him
an investment of half the amount, for a period of ten years at a
guaranteed return of ten per cent per annum.

The Connecticut investment looked to me most unpromising. With
extensive advertising it might be made a profitable business but
there was no money for this; on the other hand, additional capital
was needed at once to keep the concern alive. The note held by the
Pennsylvania banker had been issued for the benefit of this business
and must be paid. Unless new capital was found to keep the concern
going, the ten thousand dollars guaranteed by Mr. Slater must be
refunded at once. In other words, if the business was abandoned
the estate would be immediately depleted to the extent of fourteen
thousand seven hundred dollars.

A meeting was held at my office at which were present all the
parties interested and also Mr. Wood.  After a general discussion,
in which Mr. Wood took part and expressed great confidence in the
future success of the business, the gentleman who had invested
the ten thousand dollars made a proposition that if Mr. Slater's
friends would go in, for every dollar they subscribed he would
subscribe two.  If they would not do this, then he would call upon
the estate to return him the ten thousand dollars.

Taking Mr. Wood aside, I said, "Charley, personally I don't like
the investment, but to save the estate, if you will join me, I will
make it." His reply was, "Walter, I cannot. If I could I would,
for I believe it is a good thing, but I cannot go into any outside
investment at present."

My decision as to my course was made before I had spoken to him,
but I thought I would offer him a chance to share that investment
with me, after telling him my poor opinion of it.

My heart was heavy with sorrow for the loss of my friend and for
his family I felt the deepest sympathy.  I believed then, as I
believe to-day, that what I did was no more than he would have done
for my loved ones under similar circumstances.

In that Connecticut concern I invested in all about five thousand
dollars, which proved, as I thought very probably it would, practically
a total loss. I waived my claim for nine thousand dollars on that
overdrawn account and I personally paid those notes for eleven
thousand dollars, one in June and the other in August following
the death of my friend.

The only remaining asset to be disposed of was the recently acquired
property for which stock had not been issued.

Mr. Wood was personally managing this, and he represented to me
that it was in bad shape and that if anything was made out of it,
it would be by his efforts and he did not want an estate for a
partner.

He proposed to offset the estate's interest against the liability
on the firm note held by the bank. I am not sure what that amounted
to and have not the data at hand to ascertain, but think it was
under five thousand dollars.

This property is now of great value and has, I believe, made Mr.
Wood, who still owns it, a rich man.

At the time, I thought his proposition a fair one, though in later
years, Mr. Allison, a good judge of the value of such properties,
told me that he "never thought Wood treated Mrs. Slater just right
in that matter."

When I made the sale to Mallison it left Wood a minority stockholder,
which position he did not fancy. He tried to sell out to Mallison.
These men had a mutual dislike for each other and Wood after repeated
efforts found they could not agree on terms.

Then he asked me to make the sale for him. He was prepared to take
and expected to get less than the estate had received. Technically
it was worth less, for the buyer already had control. I succeeded
in making the sale at the same price, one hundred thousand dollars.

On my way home that day I stopped at Wood's house to tell him what
I had done. He was not at home and I saw his wife. I told her of
the sale and asked her to tell her husband. She exclaimed, "Oh,
Walter! What a friend you've been." That was in 1890. This is 1904.




CHAPTER XXVIII

NEW FACES



A snap of the whip, horses prancing, and with the notes of the horn
waking the echoes in the hills, we drove out from "Redstone" just
after luncheon and commenced the first stage of our sixty-mile
drive to Normandie-by-the-Sea, where we were to spend the rest of
the summer.

This was on a Friday, about the middle of July, 1890. On the drag
my wife sat beside me on the box-seat; behind us were the six
children and maid, and in the rumble, my two men. It was a very
jolly party as we went bowling along over the finest roads in the
State, and we minded not the gentle rain falling steadily. All
were dry in mackintoshes and under the leather aprons, and passing
through one village after another we were of the opinion that there
is nothing quite so inspiring as driving through the country behind
four spirited horses in any kind of weather. Just at half-past five
we crossed the bridge over the Raritan and drove into New Brunswick,
where we were to stop over night.

After a good night's rest and an eight o'clock breakfast we were
off again.

The rain had ceased and the day was bright and beautiful, with no
dust to mar the pleasure of our drive. On through Old Bridge and
Mattawan to Keyport, where we stopped for luncheon. Then away on
the last stage of the delightful journey.  Stopping at one of the
toll-gates to water the horses the woman in charge looked up at
the merry lot of children, and then turning to my wife asked, "Are
those children _all_ yours"? With a laugh I said "guilty," and
away we went. The hands of the clock on the dashboard were at six
as we drove up to the hotel, sharp on time.

We soon became acquainted with many of the guests at the hotel, who
were a pleasant lot of people, and were particularly attracted to
a Mr. and Mrs. Edward Banford of New York.

Ned Banford, a man then about thirty years of age, good looking,
genial, and clever, was a manufacturing jeweler and is still in
that business. His wife, a very charming woman, is now prominent
in golfing circles. Before the season was over, we numbered the
Banfords amongst our intimate friends. Ned and I were companions
on our daily trips to and from the city, and before I had known
him more than a few weeks he had voluntarily told me a good deal
about his business affairs.

He said his own capital was very small and a wealthy friend, a Mr.
Viedler, was backing him, and at that time had ten thousand dollars
in his business. He enlarged on the liberality of this friend,
saying, amongst other things, that when he went to him for money
he never asked anything further than, "How much do you want, Ned"?
and then writing a cheque would hand it to him.

He also told me that his business was very profitable and the only
disadvantage he labored under was Mr. Viedler's frequent absence.

This sort of talk went on daily until one morning he told me that
the day previous he had an offer of a lot of precious stones for
five thousand dollars which he could have turned over inside of
thirty days with a profit of two thousand dollars, but had to pass
it because Mr. Viedler was out of town.

The same spirit which always moved me to do what I could to help
everybody I knew led me to say to him, "Ned, I do not want to put
any money in a sinking fund for a long pull, as I may have use
for all my capital in my own business; but any time you want five
thousand dollars for thirty days, I will be glad to let you have
it."

He wanted it very soon. In a few days I loaned him five thousand
dollars, and after that, until September, 1893, there was no time
he did not owe me from five thousand to fifteen thousand dollars.

After we returned to "Redstone" we had the Banfords out for a visit,
and a little later visited them in New York. They gave a dinner
in our honor, and those amongst the guests who become prominent in
this narrative hereafter were Mr. and Mrs. Albert Caine, Mr. and
Mrs. William Curtice, and Mr. and Mrs. George Todd.

This dinner was the commencement of a long and intimate friendship
with all of those I have named.  Very many were the good times we
had together, visits back and forth, dinners, driving trips, theatre
parties, trips to Atlantic City, Lakewood, and other resorts, to
Princeton and New Haven for the college games--nothing that promised
a good time was allowed to get by us.

The birthdays and wedding anniversaries of all were duly celebrated,
and gifts interchanged at Christmas between both parents and
children. It was indeed a happy, joyous circle of friends.

My business affairs continued to prosper, and for my second year,
as an importer and dealer, my books showed a profit of sixty-eight
thousand dollars.



CHAPTER XXIX

A SHORT YEAR AND A MERRY ONE



As memory carries me back to 1891, it seems as if it would have
been impossible to crowd into a period of twelve months more social
pleasures and jolly good times than we had in that year.

In the social life at Knollwood we had ceased to be active. We
kept up and enjoyed our intimate friendship, now of more than ten
years' duration, with our immediate neighbors; but the personnel
of the Park had changed in recent years and with many of the new
residents we were not congenial, though on pleasant terms with all.

There was still a good deal of dining, card parties, and entertainments
at the Casino, in which we participated, but it was with our New
York friends that most of our social life was passed. The circle
there had been enlarged by the addition of many pleasant people,
although the close intimacy still rested where it had started,
with, however, the addition of Mr. and Mrs. William Viedler.

Mr. Viedler, a multi-millionaire at that time, has since largely
increased his fortune and is now the controlling interest in a
prominent trust of comparatively recent formation. They had been
Brooklynites but bought a fine house on Fifth Avenue.

We first met them on the occasion of a dinner given in their honor
by Mr. and Mrs. Curtice, to welcome them to New York. Mr. Curtice
is a nephew of Mrs. Viedler.

The Caines, although intimate, were not of the inner circle. This
comprised Mr. and Mrs. Curtice, Mr. and Mrs. Todd, Mr. and Mrs.
Banford, Mr.  and Mrs. Viedler, and ourselves. Curtice was our
poet laureate, and in a song he composed and sang at a dinner were
included these lines:

 "Thus from the crowd that gathered then
   Has sprung to fame the immortal ten,
  And Stowe has been so generous since
   That all the crowd have dubbed him Prince."

After that event all our friends referred to the little circle as
the "Immortal Ten;" my wife was called Lady Stowe, and I, by right
of song, Prince.

It is very difficult to say what we did not do that year in the
way of pleasure-seeking, but it is an easy matter to name the chief
event.

As guests of Mr. Viedler a party of eighteen went camping in the
Maine woods. In every detail the trip was a perfect success. Private
car to Moosehead Lake, a banquet fit for Lucullus, prepared by his
own chef, en route, exquisite Tiffany menus, and costly souvenirs.
Headquarters at Mt. Kineo for a day or two, and then down the West
Branch of the Penobscot in canoes, and over the carries until the
comfortable camp at Cauquomgomoc Lake was reached. Deer, moose,
partridge, and trout were in abundance. Every minute of that
delightful outing was filled with pleasure.

Early in the fall we decided to try a winter in New York. The "San
Remo," at Seventy-fourth Street and Central Park, West, had just
been completed, and I rented three connecting apartments, which gave
us parlor, library, dining-room, five bedrooms, and three baths,
all outside rooms. I also rented in Sixty-seventh Street a stable,
and on the first of October we took possession.

We were more than pleased With the life in town, and I commenced
negotiations with Dore Lyon for the purchase of a handsome house
he owned at West End Avenue and Seventy-fifth Street. Just as the
trade was about to be closed my eldest daughter was attacked with
typhoid. She became very ill, and this so alarmed us we concluded
to return to "Redstone" in the spring and remain there.

When the holidays drew near the invalid was convalescent, and we
opened "Redstone" for a house party. When we returned to New York
it was with a feeling of regret.

Business had been good throughout the year.  My profits were nearly
eighty thousand dollars.




CHAPTER XXX

A VOUCHER



My life, both in business and socially, in 1892 was not essentially
different from that of 1891.  Business continued satisfactory, my
profits running up to within a few thousand dollars of the previous
year.

My senior clerk, George Norman, had been in my employ for eleven
years, coming to me as an office-boy.  His salary was now twelve
hundred and fifty dollars. I told him that as a clerk he would
never be worth more to us, and advised him to start as a broker,
which he did.

We gave him a strong endorsement in a circular to the trade, and
how well we supported him is shown by the fact that we paid him
sixty-six hundred dollars in commissions the first year of his
business.

We returned to "Redstone" early in May. Our home, after our New York
experience, was more attractive than ever, and we did not believe
we would again care to leave it.

My readers will remember my reference in a former chapter to a
trade journal which I turned over to George Lawton. On July 9th,
in celebration of the commencement of its tenth year, the publisher
issued a special number, a copy of which is before me. An article
it contains is so completely a confirmation of much that I have
written, I insert it here verbatim, except for change of names to
comply with my narrative and the omission of irrelevant matter.
The article was written by the Secretary of the Exchange:

WALTER E. STOWE.

Since the father is properly considered before the child, it has
seemed to us most appropriate in celebrating for the first time the
birthday of the [name of the paper], that we should not only make
some mention of its founder, but even that we should accord him the
first place in our brief memorial; and we have accordingly, rather
against his own wishes, prepared the fine portrait of him which serves
as a frontispiece to this issue. It is hardly in the character of
a journalist that our readers will generally think of Mr. Stowe,
although most of them doubtless know that he originated and
for several years managed what we have no hesitation in saying is
_facile princeps_ among * * * trade papers; but rather in his more
permanent role of decidedly the most successful among the younger
generation of * * * dealers--as a man who has carved out for
himself a position as commanding in respect of the * * * market,
especially, as is occupied abroad by his London correspondent,
the famous A * * * S * * *

A trifle over a quarter of a century ago--in February, 1866--Mr.
Stowe entered the office of John Derham as a clerk fresh from
school, in which capacity he served for just four years, and then
succeeded to the business of this firm as a broker on his own
account. A broker in those days was an altogether different sort
of cogwheel in the machinery of commerce from the broker of to-day;
success depending primarily on geniality of manner, industry and
intelligence in the execution of commissions intrusted to him by
the jobbing houses; all of which qualifications, Mr. Stowe possessed
in an eminent degree, and devoting himself particularly to dealing
in * * * advanced rapidly to a position in which the major part
of such transactions as were not made directly by importers to
consumers, passed through his hands. But his business ability was
of a broader type than was needed for such services only, and in
the process of evolution, through which the old-fashioned broker
was practically eliminated, his place being taken by a new type
of dealer, who although not always or even usually trading for his
own account, yet makes most of his transactions in his own name,
and is chiefly differentiated from the jobber only from the fact
that he buys and sells in round parcels and does not break them
up to shop out into smaller lots. As this change took place, Mr.
Stowe developed into a dealer of a newer and more progressive type
than the * * * trade had hitherto known. To-day he stands rather
as an importer, the entries to his firm's credit having steadily
climbed the list of percentages until they are now far ahead of
those belonging to any other house; and with his intimate relations
with A. * * S. * * * & Co., of London, it would be making no
invidious comparison to say that he is the recognized leader of
the * * * trade of America.

For all his remarkably prosperous career, Mr. Stowe has been in no
way spoiled by success, and is to-day the same quiet, unassuming
gentleman as when these characteristics attracted the good will
of older men in the trade and secured to him the beginning of a
business which has since grown so largely. He was a late comer to
the membership of the Exchange, which he joined only in 1886; but
has served on its board of managers for four years past, and since
the first of April has held the position of vice-president. Outside
of his business, his life is a thoroughly domestic one, for which he
has abundant excuse in his beautiful home, "Redstone," at Knollwood,
N.J., where he is one of the most popular residents of that charming
suburb and where he has a particular claim to distinction in the
fine stable which he maintains, his chief hobby being horse flesh,
though not on the sporting side, with which we are most likely to
associate such a passion.  In short, the [name of paper] has every
reason to be proud of its parentage, and like all good children
delights in doing filial honor and wishing its founder all possible
prosperity in the future as in the past.




CHAPTER XXXI

TWO SIDES TO THE QUESTION



It was the afternoon of a day in the first week of January, 1893.
I sat in an easy chair in front of the open fire in my private
office deep in thought.  In my hand was the balance-sheet for 1892,
showing a profit of over seventy thousand dollars. I was considering
both sides of a momentous question. It was whether or not to retire
from business.

I had for years looked forward with delightful anticipation to the
time when I could do this. I wanted to travel extensively. In my
library were many books of travel, all of which had been read with
great interest. I had an eager longing to see for myself all parts
of the civilized world; not in haste, but at my own leisure. I
wanted to devote years to a journey that should cover the globe.

My affairs were in excellent shape. Within a period of sixty days
I could liquidate my business and retire with about three hundred
thousand dollars.  I had my home, complete in its appointments;
my library; my stable, with all that it could contribute to our
pleasure and comfort; my health, and I was but forty-two years
of age. That was one side, now for the other. The largest income
I could expect with my capital securely invested would be fifteen
thousand dollars. My balance-sheet showed that in 1892 I had drawn
forty-four thousand. I considered where my expenditures could be
cut down. There was the long list of pensioners, relatives, and
friends who for years had been receiving regularly from me a monthly
cheque on which they depended for their comfort. Could that be cut
off?  Surely not.

There was a still longer list of people, many of whom I knew
but slightly, who from time to time called on me for help, always
as loans but rarely returned. I kept no record of such things and
never requested repayment. Could that item be cut out?  No, for
when a man appealed to me for assistance, I knew not how to refuse
him. He always received it.

There were all the charities, St. John's Guild, Fresh-Air Funds,
hospitals, home for crippled children, and the personal charities
of my wife amongst the poor--could these be dropped? Again, no.

Then I looked at home. The education of our children--my elder son
was at Harvard with a liberal allowance; my eldest daughter at Miss
Dana's expensive school at Morristown; the rest of the children
taught at home by a visiting governess; the girls taking music
lessons--nothing could be done here. The education item was bound
to increase materially as the children grew older.

Then I thought of the monthly bills from Altman, Arnold, Constable
& Co., Lord & Taylor, and others.  How about those? Oh no; I loved
to see my wife in her beautiful gowns and as the girls developed
into young ladies those bills would grow.

There seemed nothing left but the entertainment of our friends. A
large expense, but essential to our pleasure and position in society.

I carried a very large life insurance, but did not for a moment
think of reducing that.

Then my thoughts carried me farther. Suppose I could get my expenses
down to my income, how about the people we were helping in another
way, whose income would be seriously affected by my retiring?

There was one of our friends at Knollwood. He was employed on a
moderate salary, and when his wife inherited nine hundred dollars
he brought it to me and asked me to make some money for him.  Now,
as a result, he was living in a house he had bought for eleven
thousand dollars and to cancel the mortgage of a few thousand he
relied upon me.  There were those three old gentlemen in Connecticut
whose income from their investment with us was allowing them to
pass in comfort their declining years. Could I cut this off? No;
and there were many others.

It was clear to my mind that my labor was not yet at an end. I must
still keep at the helm, but I made a resolution that on my fiftieth
birthday I would retire.




CHAPTER XXXII

THE PANIC OF NINETY-THREE



In the year 1893 there was one great controlling feature in our
market that was to culminate on July first.

For years the commodity in which we dealt had been duty free. The
McKinley Tariff Bill imposed a duty of four cents per pound, to
go into effect on July 1, 1893, for a period of two years. It was
the one senseless clause in an otherwise excellent bill and had been
inserted as the only means of securing the necessary votes in the
Senate. The sole object of the clause was to influence the speculative
value of shares in a certain corporation which is now in the hands
of a receiver.

When this corporation was first organized I subscribed for some
stock and was in its first board of directors and its vice-president.
If there was to be a new source of supply of the commodity I dealt
in so largely, it was important I should know of it.  As soon as
I became satisfied that it was nothing but a scheme to make money
by the sale of stock, I resigned and disposed of my holdings to
one of the promoters at a profit of eight dollars per share.

Efforts to have the clause repealed had been unsuccessful, and as
the duty was certain to be imposed, we thought it wise to import
largely prior to July first. Others did the same, and when that
date arrived the stock in New York was very large. We held on our
own account about one-third of the entire stock and in addition a
very large quantity which we had sold to our customers for delivery
in July.

Of course, our purchases had been made of our London friends, and
during this period our remittances were unusually large, running
into several millions. An incident of our correspondence at that
time was a postscript in one of their letters calling our attention
to the fact that the letter from us, to which they were then
replying, had been underpaid in postage and cost them six pence.
They requested us to see to it in future that our letters were
properly stamped. Think of that, from a concern with whom we were
doing a business of millions!

Early in July came the panic. It seemed as if over night all the
money in the country had disappeared.  In Wall Street fabulous rates
were bid for money. Banks and bankers said they had none.  Where
was it?

When the stock market collapsed and values had depreciated hundreds
of millions, money was found by the large insurance companies and
the powerful factors of Wall Street to pick up the bargains in
shares, but it was some time before merchants could get it. Meanwhile,
this class all over the country, after a long period of good times,
were caught by the panic with their lines greatly extended. Great
houses rating "a million and over" had no actual cash. Property?--Lots
of it. Solvent?--Absolutely so, but they could not pay their
obligations, nor take deliveries on contracts that required payments
against delivery.

Our sales for July delivery amounted to nearly a million of dollars;
less than fifty thousand was taken according to contract. The rest
we had to carry and our bankers had to carry us. We shall never
cease to be grateful for the generous help they gave us in that
critical period.

Under these financial conditions it was only natural that all
merchandise markets should be greatly depressed.

Our market was weak at eighteen cents, although not a pound could
now be imported below twenty-two cents. The large stock seemed to
hang as a wet blanket, but as a fact most of it was concentrated
in three strong hands. We were the largest holders.  I called on
the other two and told them it was absurd to sell at the ruling
price, and if they would assure me we would not have to take their
stock--in other words, if they would hold it off the market--we
would buy the floating lots and advance the price close to the
importing point. I further offered to give them an equal share of
the purchases if they so desired. They asked how much I thought we
would have to buy? To which I replied, "Not over five hundred tons."

The agreement was made on the basis of an equal division of the
purchases. Slowly but steadily we raised the price, and when the
end we sought was accomplished we had bought four hundred and ninety
tons. The operation and consequent advance in the market made a
difference in the value of our holdings of seventy thousand dollars.




CHAPTER XXXIII

FAREWELL TO "REDSTONE"



All through the summer of 1893 we had been discussing the advisability
of leaving "Redstone" and taking up a permanent residence in New
York.

Our children were now at a period when good schools were imperative
for their proper education, and such did not exist at Knollwood.
Our social life was almost entirely with our New York friends, and
though two families of the "Immortal Ten" had become residents of
Knollwood they were to leave at the end of the term for which they
had rented. The Banfords occupied "Sunnyside," while George Lawton,
who had removed to Orange, rented his house to the Todds.

While we were fond of all the New York friends and especially so
of Will Curtice and his wife, for George and Charlotte Todd we had
a tender spot in our hearts that none of the others quite reached.
George, in a way, reminded me of my former friend, Frank Slater;
not that he resembled him in feature, but in his possession of a
charm of manner that won everybody with whom he came in contact.
Versatile, witty, and brilliant in his entertaining power, he was
easily the most popular man in our circle. Entering the employment
of New York's greatest life insurance company as an office boy,
he is today one of its vice-presidents, and this proud position is
the well-deserved reward of wonderful ability. His wife is one of
those sweet, pretty, clever women that everybody loves.

Ned Banford had met with disaster. He was one of many who were
unable to weather the panic. At the time of his failure he was
indebted to me five thousand dollars. A day or two before the event
he brought me a package of unset pearls which he valued at eight
thousand dollars and requested me to hold them as security.

Mr. Viedler, who also was a creditor, was abroad.  As soon as
he learned of the failure he returned to New York and advanced a
considerable sum of money to enable Ned to make a settlement with
his merchandise creditors. This took considerable time, and meanwhile
I required in my own business the use of all my resources. I told
Ned if he could not arrange to repay me I would be forced to sell
the pearls, and suggested taking them to Tiffany, where I was
well known, and asking them to make an offer.  To this he strongly
objected, and much to my surprise, in view of all that I had done
for him, exhibited a good deal of ill-feeling toward me for taking
such a position. I remained firm, however, and fixed a date beyond
which I would not wait.  The day before the specified time Ned
brought to my office Mr. Viedler's cheque to my order for five
thousand dollars.

[Illustration: EIGHTY-SIXTH STREET AND WEST END AVENUE]

Throwing the cheque on my desk he said, with a smile, "Here's your
money, old man; now I want you to do something for me. Just give me
your note for five thousand dollars payable to Viedler." I said,
"Why should I do that, Ned? I am not borrowing this money of Viedler.
This is not to benefit me--it is to help you and save those pearls."

"Yes, I know," he replied, "but Viedler is a queer sort of chap.
He has been putting up a lot of money for me. He wants this done
this way and I want to humor him. It will help me and won't hurt
you.  Payment will never be demanded of you." I asked him if Mr.
Viedler was fully informed on the matter and knew what my position
was. He replied, "Yes, I have told him all about it." I then gave
him the note. The sequel to this incident will come in a later
chapter.

As a final result of our summer's deliberation we leased a house at
Eighty-sixth Street and West End Avenue and by the first of October
had become settled in our new home; the horses we took with us but
the ponies were sold. The children had outgrown them. "Redstone"
we closed for the winter.  In the spring I offered it for rent and
quickly found a good tenant in the agent of the Rhinelander estate.
Our four daughters were entered at the school of the Misses Ely on
Riverside Drive and made rapid and satisfactory progress in their
studies.

As soon as we had become thoroughly accustomed to life in New York
I think every member of the family was glad of the change. The
children made many pleasant friends, enjoyed their school life,
their Saturday matinees and drives in the park, and not one of them
would have liked to return to Knollwood.

As for my wife and myself, our enjoyment of the life was beyond
question. We had always been fond of the theatre and now we saw
everything worth seeing. We had a delightful circle of friends whom
we were meeting continually. Our home was handsome and spacious.
Our appointments fitted it beautifully and every room in the house,
from the billiard-room in the basement, up through the four stories
was very attractive.

Every pleasant morning I drove the T-cart or tandem through the park
to the Fifty-eighth Street Elevated station, and in the afternoon,
with the brougham, after calls or shopping, my wife would meet me.
When there was sufficient snow to permit it we would have out the
large sleigh, and with four-in-hand or three abreast derive keen
pleasure from our drive.

For clubs I had little use, though a member of several. For many years
I went to the Down-Town Association for luncheon and occasionally
after the theatre took my wife to the ladies' dining-room in the
Colonial Club for a supper; as a rule, however, we went for these
suppers to the Waldorf, where we usually met friends.

With our life in New York commenced a closer intimacy with the
Caines, though not of our seeking.  They lived nearer to us than
any of our friends and their informal calls became very frequent.
In a way we liked them. They were chatty, sociable people, though
a little too much inclined to gossip. They were not well mated.
Both had tempers and the wife had some money, the husband, little
or none; consequently there was friction and they lacked the good
taste to confine their differences to the privacy of their own
apartments. This was a great drawback to our enjoyment of their
society.




CHAPTER XXXIV

A SUMMER ON THE SOUND



The winter of 1893 and 1894, crowded with its social pleasures,
was soon over, and with the approach of warm weather we sought a
summer home.

We had passed so many summers inland, we longed for the water--ocean
or sound, preferably the latter. Many places on the Connecticut
and Long Island shores were looked at without finding just what we
wanted, and it was not until the middle of June that we decided on
the W. H. Crossman place at Great Neck, L. I.

The place had many attractions, not the least of which was its
accessibility by boat. A sail of an hour twice a day was in itself
a great rest for me, and combined with this was a commodious,
well-furnished house; fine stable; ample grounds, handsomely laid
out; good kitchen garden, planted; plenty of fruit; gardener, and
Alderney cows on the place, and best of all a fine bathing beach
at the foot of the lawn, with the open Sound before us.

As I sat at dinner I could see the Sound steamers go by on their
way east, numerous yachts passing constantly, the Sands Point Light,
and across the Sound the New York shore.

We drove to Great Neck from New York on the drag, crossing the
Ferry to College Point.

On one side of us was King's Point, on the other the beautiful
residence of Hazen L. Hoyt. The neighbors were friendly and cordial,
all very pleasant people; the drives through the surrounding country
delightful, over good roads and under great trees that afforded
effectual shade from the sun.  Later we experienced a few weeks of
torment with the mosquitoes, when out of doors, though the house
was kept free from the pests. There were days when my poor horses,
though coal black, appeared gray, so thickly were they covered with
those ravenous mosquitoes.

We entertained many of our friends during the season and I had
some good fishing. When we returned to our home in the fall, taking
everything into consideration, we voted the summer's experience a
success.

At this time we decided to give our horses a well-earned rest. They
were in perfect condition, but we thought it would be a good idea
to winter them on a farm, and as I had an acquaintance at Boonton,
N. J., who made a business of that sort of thing, I sent them to
him, bringing them back to town in the spring. They were well cared
for and came back to us like young colts.

During the winter of 1894 and 1895 we saw more of the Caines than
ever. One evening early in the season, while on our way to the
theatre together, Albert, as he sat back in the carnage, remarked,
"I wish I could afford to go to the theatre once a week all winter."
I said, "Albert, I will tell you how to fix that. You put in five
hundred dollars and I will do the same. I will do a little operating
in our market with it and we will devote the profits entirely to
amusement."

He sent me his cheque a day or two later, and out of the profits of
that little account we certainly derived a great deal of pleasure.
Every Saturday night a carriage conveyed us to the theatre, and
after the performance to the Waldorf, where we had supper. Then in
the Moorish room we took coffee and liqueurs while smoking a cigar
and chatting with our wives and the friends we frequently met.
Those little affairs cost about thirty dollars an evening, and I
so managed the account that there was always a balance on hand.

On one of these evenings an incident occurred that gave me a new
light on the character of Albert.  It had its humor and I relate
it:

The Caines and ourselves were in the Moorish room. We had finished
our coffee and I had paid the check. While chatting, we were joined
by Mr.  and Mrs. Curtice, Mr. and Mrs. Todd, and two other friends,
making now, with us, a party of ten. Albert, with just a little
undue haste, called a waiter and ordered liqueurs for the party.
When the check was brought him, he paid for six and sent the waiter
to me to collect for our four, the amount being eighty cents. He
wanted the amusement fund to stand part of his hospitality. The
others of the party noticed it and smiled significantly. They knew
the man better than I did.




CHAPTER XXXV

MONMOUTH BEACH



Another winter had gone, leaving in its wake agreeable memories
of many happy reunions with the friends we had learned to love so
well, and once again we faced the problem that comes to so many
New Yorkers who do not own their summer home--where shall we go
for the heated term?

We were considering whether we would risk another encounter with
the mosquitoes and try Great Neck once more, when we heard the
Crossman place had been rented, and there was no other place there,
in the market, that we cared to take.

Our thoughts turned to the ocean. With my wife I searched the Jersey
coast from Seabright down to Asbury Park. Farther than that we did
not want to go on account of the length of the trip to and from
the city.

On our first visit we cut out every place except Monmouth Beach
and Seabright, and on the second took a lease of the Brent Wood
Cottage at Monmouth Beach. It was delightfully situated, directly
on the beach, a spacious and comfortably furnished house with a
large stable.

The house was in good repair, except that it needed painting. As I
had taken the lease for two seasons and the owner would do nothing,
I had it painted at my expense. We also did some redecorating in some
of the rooms, and when the work was finished had a very attractive
place.

The grand sail down the harbor and across the lower bay to the
Highlands was a source of daily delight to me. I had my own large
and nicely furnished stateroom with its private deck, rented by
the season, and we were very glad that we missed taking the place
at Great Neck.

On the first and second stories there were wide piazzas running
around the house, and for hours at a time with my marine glasses
at hand to look at passing steamers, I sat and enjoyed, what has
always been a fascination to me, watching the magnificent surf
crashing and dashing on the beach below. The house was protected
by a formidable bulkhead, but it was no uncommon occurrence to have
great showers of spray come dashing over it.

To watch the moon rise out of the sea, to listen to the roaring of
those ceaseless waves, the last thing before I slept at night and
the first thing on awakening in the morning, had for me a charm
unequalled by anything in Nature's wonders. And those September
storms, particularly severe that year, awe-inspiring in their mighty
grandeur.

Oh! there is nothing like the ocean.

On July first, the two years having expired, the commodity in which
we dealt again went on the free list. Naturally, stocks in this
country had been reduced to a very low point. With four cents per
pound duty removed, no one wanted any of the old stock, which had
paid the duty, on hand. Every consumer and dealer in the country
was bare of supplies and a very active demand from all sources set
in immediately.

When we abandoned the brokerage business to become importers and
dealers, our relations with our London friends changed. We bought
of them all that we imported and they sold to no other American
firm. If they bought in this market, their orders came to us. With
their movements we worked in sympathy. If they advanced the price
in London we did the same in New York and vice-versa. We were in
constant cable communication, informing each other from hour to
hour of the market movements.


There were times, however, when they entered into market campaigns
that extended over a long period. In these we did not fully
participate. Our market was too narrow to permit of it, and it
involved the locking up of too much capital.

In August, in accordance with our London advices, we began quietly
to accumulate stock in expectation of a much higher market late in
the fall.  We remained persistent though quiet buyers until October,
meanwhile doing our utmost to hold the market down that we might
buy cheaply. We looked to see the operation completed by the end of
the year, with a very handsome profit. Early in October our stock
was sufficiently large to make it an object to advance the price,
and our buying became more aggressive.

Just when the value began to rise, the London market halted. This
at once checked the advance in New York and for the time being we
had a waiting game on our hands, it being quite impossible for our
market to advance above the London parity and remain there. We must
wait for London.

After a moderate reaction London again advanced and we bought
here freely everything that was offered. Again London halted. All
through November conditions were the same; a few days of strength,
then a reaction, meanwhile our stock had been largely increased. At
the beginning of December our advices from London led us to believe
that all hesitation would now disappear and the market rapidly
advance. Our holdings were already enormous, but we had no reason
to doubt the success of our operations, and continued our purchases.




CHAPTER XXXVI

THE SHIP FOUNDERS



December 17, 1895, will ever remain in the memory of business men,
at least of this generation, as the day when President Cleveland
transmitted to Congress his Venezuelan message, a piece of jingoism
which was entirely uncalled for and resulted in disastrous consequences
to the commercial interests of the country. It came as a flash of
lightning from a clear sky. It was the direct and immediate cause
of a stock and money panic in Wall Street which, while it added
largely to the wealth of certain individuals, brought disaster and
ruin to many.

If, my reader, you do not already know, ask any well-informed stock
broker of that period who it was that sold the market short on an
enormous scale during the few days prior to the message, and when
he tells you the name draw your own deductions.  You will not
require to be a Sherlock Holmes.

We knew just before this fateful day that at last we had undertaken
an operation which was to result in loss, and a heavy one, but we
never dreamed it was to be our Waterloo--nor would it have been
except for the acute stringency in the money market, the result of
that Venezuelan message.

Our commitments for the end of December and first week of January
were unusually heavy. We met them with increasing difficulty until
the twenty-eighth of December and then came our failure.

I was dazed at the extent of the catastrophe. I could not realize
that a business which I had built up from nothing to a volume of
nearly fifteen millions a year with more than eight hundred active
accounts on the books, and out of which I had made a fortune, was
swept away, leaving me only a mountain of debt.

Alas, it was only too true. The liabilities were nearly one
and one-half millions. Of course, there were large assets, mostly
merchandise, but everything was gone, and my wife threw in "Redstone,"
which had cost me forty thousand dollars, with the rest.

As soon as I recovered myself, I had a meeting with my creditors, all
of whom were most kindly disposed, and my statement was accepted
without any examination of the books of the firm. Outside of
our regular bankers we had heavy loans in which there were large
equities. Arrangements were made and these loans taken up at once.

Our position had been so prominent and our holdings were so large,
the news of the failure caused a heavy decline, which carried
the price down to almost the lowest figure in the history of the
trade; but not one ton of our stock was thrown on the market and we
ourselves liquidated the business over a period of several months.

Our former clerk, the broker, George Norman, also failed, claiming
our failure as the cause.

In our operations it was often necessary to cover our identity
by using a broker's name, an established custom in many lines of
business. We had favored George largely and our business had been
very profitable to him. We did not know at the time, but learned a
little later, that prices on the contracts made through him were on
our books in excess of the prices he had paid the seller, whereas
they should have agreed. This really made him a principal instead
of a broker. Actually he had bought of sellers for his own account
at one price and sold to us at a higher price, he making the
difference in addition to his commissions. His representations to
us were always that the price we were paying him was the lowest
the seller would accept.

Norman also had been operating on his own account, and by failing
escaped his losses. The general opinion of the trade was that he
really made money by his failure.

On our books at the time of the failure were a number of discretionary
accounts. All of these clients were our friends, and most of them
had been with us for many years and had received their investments
back in profits over and over again. In order to do justice to all
we had to syndicate these accounts. The combined capital was large
and the operations had always been very profitable.

These clients had come to us without our solicitation and it was
distinctly understood from the start that their investment was
at their own risk. All this money was now lost. We had no legal
liability, but we did feel, as they were friends, that there was a
moral responsibility and we told them one and all we would accept
it.

We did something else for them; a few knew it at the time and showed
their appreciation. Some of them will not know it until they read
it here.

Every one of those clients could have been held as an undisclosed
partner, for a very large part of our losses were made in the December
operations for the syndicate. Morally, they were not responsible,
for they never intended assuming any such liability, nor would we
have allowed them to; but legally, technically, they were liable,
and we saved them, keeping the burden where it had fallen, on our
own shoulders. We had one discretionary account that was not in the
syndicate. It was the account of Albert Caine. This was operated
under our guarantee against loss, we taking half the profits
as compensation for the guarantee. Although this account stood in
Albert's name, it was his wife's money and her investment. It had
been running for a long time and profits had been paid her to the
extent of about forty-seven hundred dollars.

Although we had not the affection for the Caines we had for others
in our circle of friends, we were extremely intimate. I have told
of our amusement fund and of how residing near each other we were
meeting them continually. They had visited us at "Redstone," at
Great Neck, and at Monmouth Beach, and I hardly expected they would
be the first to desert us. They were--and worse.

As soon as Caine heard of the failure he began a search for property
to attach. He told a mutual friend that papers were being drawn to
attach the horses and carriages and the house furniture. For some
reasons he changed his mind, which was just as well, as all were
beyond his reach.

Then he made a statement reflecting on me, giving as his authority
my bankers, on whom he had called. This I took up at once. I knew
it was false.

Without letting him know the object, I arranged an interview at
my lawyer's office, which he attended, accompanied by his lawyer.
I had asked George Todd to be there as a witness who could relate
an account of the interview to our mutual friends. Caine, when he
saw Todd, objected to his presence, but he remained.

My lawyer repeated the statement and asked Caine if he had made it.
He replied, "Yes." He asked him if the banker had told him this,
and he answered, "No."

Then Todd said, "Albert, do I understand you to say that this
statement you made and said you had heard from the bankers, you
admit having made, and now say that you did not hear it, and that
it was a lie"? To which he replied, "Yes," and burst into tears.
That ended the interview and thereafter the Caines were ostracised
by our circle of friends.

A little later Mrs. Caine commenced suit. Just to tease her
I fought the case, claiming that while guaranteeing against loss,
I had not guaranteed profits, and that these should be deducted.
After keeping her on the "anxious seat" for about two years she
secured a judgment for the full amount, and she owns to-day the
only judgment against me. She would have had more money now had
she remained a friend.

There were two of my liabilities that distressed me far more than
the others and one of these caused me the keenest anguish of mind.
At the time of the settlement of the Slater estate, Mr. Pell, Mrs.
Slater's father, was a creditor for fourteen thousand dollars. Frank
had been using this money and had paid Mr. Pell ten per cent. per
annum on it, not regarding it as a matter of interest, but merely
to give the old gentleman, who was out of business and becoming
feeble, a certain amount of income. Mr.  Pell asked me as a favor
to take this money and do the same for him as Frank had been doing.
I did so, and later he added two thousand dollars to the amount,
so that I owed him in all sixteen thousand dollars.

The other liability was for twenty-five thousand dollars due to Mrs.
Slater. There had been a time a year or two back when temporarily
my resources were pretty well tied up, and I then borrowed this
amount of Mrs. Slater. When I asked her at the time if she wanted
to help me out, she replied, "I am only too delighted, Walter, to
do anything you ask," and she meant it. The loan was made without
security and was an act of purest friendship. To make it she had
to withdraw the money from her invested funds and of course I told
her this would not diminish her income.

It was this liability to Mrs. Slater that caused me such torture
of mind. The one thing that slightly relieved this feeling was the
knowledge that neither she nor Mr. Pell wanted the money. If the
income could be kept up, and this I hoped to accomplish, I could
take my own time for repayment of the principal.

My mail was crowded for days with letters of sympathy. Practically
all our out-of-town customers wrote us, and to their kindly
expressions of regret for our disaster was added the hope that we
would continue in business, and promises of hearty support in the
matter of sending us their orders.

With our competitors it was different. One or two called on us and
were sincere in their regret.  Others, as we met them, talked the
same way, but we knew they did not mean it; and one, a Sunday-school
teacher whom I described in an earlier chapter as doing business on
a paving-stone heart, was reported to me as having made derogatory
remarks regarding us.

As soon as this report reached me, I went at once to his office,
and while his face crimsoned in his confusion at being confronted,
he denied that he had made the remark. I accepted his denial, though
I did not believe him. I had no more use for him than for the sort
of Christianity of which he is an example, and thereafter I treated
him with the barest civility.




CHAPTER XXXVII

THE FAMILY AND FRIENDS



One of my friends once said to me, "Stowe, it is worth all the
trouble you have had to find out what a noble woman your wife is";
and his wife added, "She is the bravest woman I ever knew."

Did not I know full well the bravery of the woman?

Had not her character and nobility of soul been revealed to me time
and again in the troubles that beset us in the early years of our
married life? True, this catastrophe immeasurably overshadowed
anything that had come to us before, but I knew how my wife would
take it and I was not disappointed.

If it were possible, she loved me more than ever.  Her constant
effort was to cheer me up, keep up my courage by imparting her own
brave spirit to mine.  Never a word of regret for all the luxuries
and many comforts that must now be given up, never a suspicion of
despondency. Only the brightest of smiles and most tender caresses
were lavished on me by my devoted wife, and with all was her earnest
desire to do what she could to lighten my burdens and to share in
the struggle before us.

The same spirit animated the children. One and all they supported
me by their strong affection shown in every possible way.

Immediately following my disaster the loyalty and regard of my
social friends, with the one exception of the Caines, was shown
on all sides. Kindly letters and personal calls were numerous and
did much to relieve the terrible feeling of despondency that weighed
me down.

The bright particular star in this firmament of friends was Mrs.
Slater. She had made a heavy loss that she could ill afford and
she accepted it without a shadow of reproach to me. Of course she
expected and hoped that at some time I would be able to repay her,
but this thought did not influence her in her stanch friendship.
Had she known there was no possible hope of my ever repaying her,
her feeling toward me would have been the same. Mrs.  Caine, who
knew her, while calling and in a spirit of malice endeavored to
turn her against me. As a result, the call was never returned, and
the acquaintance ceased.

At this time I was seeking no favors from friends except in
one little matter in which I was assisted by George Todd and Will
Curtice. They were not called upon for financial aid, but they
guaranteed my carrying out an agreement which made them jointly liable
to the extent of four thousand dollars. I fulfilled my obligation
and then returned their guarantee.

The spirit shown by the tradespeople with whom I had dealings touched
me deeply. I had always been prompt in the settlement of bills and
immediately after my failure every account of this character was
paid at once. Of course we immediately cut off all unnecessary
expense.

King, the well-known up-town fish dealer, had been serving
us oysters and fish regularly each day.  We were through now with
course dinners and these items were cut out. The next day I received
a letter from him, from which I quote:

"I want your trade if it's only a pound of codfish a week, and you
can pay once a month, once a year, or whenever it pleases you."

Then there was old Tom Ward, the coal dealer.  I had in my cellar
about thirty tons of coal and I called at his office to get him to
send for it and pay me what he could afford to. As I entered the
door he sprang forward with outstretched hand, saying, "Mr. Stowe,
I am glad to see you, and I want to say you're the whitest little
man on the West Side, and I have a few hundred dollars in the bank.
If you want them you're welcome to them." My tailor, with whom
I had traded for a great many years, told me I could always have
anything in his shop and no bills would be rendered until asked
for. And so it was with all.

Of the house on Eighty-sixth Street, I had a lease at three
thousand dollars a year. My landlord, Mr.  W. E. D. Stokes, told
me to "remain until the end of the lease and not bother about the
rent." I accepted this offer for one month. The Misses Ely, where
the girls attended school, called on my wife and asked her to
continue the girls for the rest of the school year without charge.
The larger tradesmen, such as Tiffany, Altman; Arnold, Constable,
and the like, all wanted our account kept on their books, but we
were through with the pomps and vanities and had no use for them.
My coachman offered me his savings and with the house servants it
was the same.

Before the end of January arrangements had been completed for
our new scale of living. The horses and carriages, representing
an investment of ten thousand dollars, I sold for less than two
thousand.  There was no time to look for buyers and I made a forced
sale. Of the contents of our home we sold nothing except a panoply
of armor and one piece of bronze. These, Mrs. Veidler, who had
always admired them, bought, and added to the appointments of her
Fifth Avenue home.

At Westfield, N. J., we were offered a large house with modern
conveniences, well-stocked conservatory, and attractive grounds,
at a rental of fifty dollars per month. This we accepted, and on
the eighth of February took possession.

Before leaving the city we were entertained at a series of dinners
and theatre parties given by our friends of the "Immortal Ten,"
and though these occasions were somewhat saddening, partaking of
the nature of a farewell honor to a fallen "Prince," we appreciated
the compliment.




CHAPTER XXXVIII

"W. E. STOWE & CO., INCORPORATED"



At the suggestion of my attorneys, I decided to continue the business
as a corporation.

The reason for this was that I wanted to continue under the same
firm name and not as an agent, and while aside from Caine there were
no antagonistic creditors, it was deemed wise to provide against
any possibility of such appearing later on and jeopardizing the
new capital which I expected to raise without difficulty.

As a matter of fact no creditor except Caine ever assumed such an
attitude.

Under the laws of West Virginia a corporation was organized as W.
E. Stowe & Co., Incorporated.

The charter was made broad enough to cover every possible branch
of the business and the capital stock fixed at twenty-five thousand
dollars with liberty to increase to one million.

The organization was completed by electing as officers members of
my family, and the ten per cent required by law to be paid in was
raised in part by my wife by the sale of personal property and the
remainder by myself in a loan from a gentleman who was one of the
heaviest losers in the operations carried on for our friends.

My bankers, within certain reasonable limits and restrictions,
promised me their assistance, and I believed I would soon again be
on the highway to prosperity.

The first step was to raise the twenty-two thousand five hundred
dollars to complete the capitalization.

This seemed easy; why not? There was my friend Viedler; a man worth
several millions. He had been warmly sympathetic in his expressions
of regret at my misfortune. He and Mrs. Viedler had always shown a
cordial fondness for us, which we reciprocated. The social intimacy
had been close and always delightful.

At first I thought I would ask him for the entire amount, then
concluded to ask for five thousand dollars, really believing he
would comply with pleasure and offer more if wanted.

I wrote him asking for the money as a loan, telling him the purpose
for which it was wanted and offering to give him a lien on my
library, if he so desired, as security.

By return mail came a brief reply, typewritten and signed by his
secretary: "Mr. Viedler makes no more personal loans."

That was the sum and substance of the communication, and the first
intimation I had that another friend had deserted us. It was such
a surprise that I did not fully realize the fact until I had re-read
the letter.

Some months later I was informed, to my complete astonishment, that
Mr. Viedler had some feeling against me because I had not protected
him on that note for five thousand dollars he held and which it will
be remembered I gave to Banford in 1893 without any consideration
and solely as a matter of accommodation to him. The pearls which
I held as security for the money due me from Banford, had been, at
Viedler's request, consigned to him for sale, under an agreement
by which Banford was to pay out of the proceeds to Mr. Viedler the
amount of the note with interest. At the time of the consignment
I handed to Mr. Viedler's secretary an order on Banford directing
him to do this.

If Mr. Viedler had considered that note my liability it is most
singular he did not demand payment at its maturity early in 1894.

As soon as I learned of his feelings in the matter I wrote him on
the subject and asked for an interview that we might go into every
detail of the transaction.  This he declined, and it became evident
to me he knew there was no cause for the feeling he claimed to
have, and his refusing to aid me was simply for the reason he did
not want to, which, of course, was his indisputable right.

Well; Viedler had failed me, who next?

On my desk, amongst the letters of sympathy received immediately
after my failure, was one from a prominent Wall Street man, whom
I had known for many years and who for a time had been one of
my neighbors at Knollwood. I wrote to him about the same as I had
written Viedler.

The return mail brought his reply, written personally, expressing
regret that he was "unable to assist me as he was a large borrower
himself."

All stock brokers are large borrowers in their business, but here
was an instance in which this universal custom was given as an
excuse for not making a loan of five thousand dollars to a friend
in trouble.

And who was this man? Here is what Thomas W. Lawson had to say of
him in one of the chapters of "Frenzied Finance":


J*** M*** deserves more than a mere passing mention here, for he was
at this time a distinguished Wall Street character and one of the
ablest practitioners of finance in the Country. During the last
fifteen years of his life, M*** was party to more confidential
jobs and deals than all other contemporaneous financiers, and he
handled them with great skill and high art. Big, jolly, generous,
a royal eater and drinker, an associate of the rich, the friend of
the poor, a many-times millionaire.


Another friend off the list--but there were many left. Now for the
next one. "The third time a charm"--perhaps.

Again I turned to the letters on my desk. This time I took up one
from a former mayor of New York. A man widely known, politically,
socially, and as a philanthropist.

His kind letter when received had been a pleasant surprise to me.
I had known him but a few years and could not claim a very close
intimacy, though he had always been most cordial and our families
were acquainted. As I re-read his letter it seemed to me as if it
invited me to address him under just such circumstances as then
existed.

Again, and for the third time, my messenger went forth seeking for
the friend who would help a man when he is down.

The reply came promptly enough and brought me the information that
my friend did not "desire to invest in any new business."

I had not asked him to; my request was for a loan, but his answer
was all-sufficient.

Despondency followed. Where is the use? I asked myself. "To succeed
is to win fame; to fail, a crime." "The world has no use for an
unsuccessful man." Thus I gave up the attempt to raise a sum of
money that, before I made the effort, seemed but a trifle, "light
as air."

During the summer two of our Connecticut friends, who had been
members of the syndicate, between them made me a loan of six thousand
dollars, and this gave me a capital of eighty-five hundred dollars.
With this I attempted to save what I could of the enormous business
I had built up. How absurd it seemed, and yet my courage was far
from gone.




CHAPTER XXXIX

THE STRUGGLE COMMENCED



By midsummer of 1896 the liquidation of the affairs of the old
firm was practically completed; that is, in so far as related to
the conversion of our assets into cash and payment of the proceeds
to our creditors. These payments were very large, but there was
still a heavy deficiency, which I hoped in time to pay in full with
interest, gigantic as the burden seemed.

Every business day found me at my office working early and late as
I had never worked before. With but one clerk and an office-boy, a
vast amount of detail had to be undertaken by myself. Night after
night my thoughts were almost constantly on plans to keep together
the business I had established.

I was fighting an octopus. My competitors all were arrayed against
me with a force I had never before experienced. They spared no
effort to crush the man who had beaten them over and over again in
battles for commercial supremacy. It was their turn now and they
showed no mercy.

But how different was the warfare waged on me!  In the days gone
by I had struck them powerful blows, straight from the shoulder;
but a foul blow?--never! No man, living or dead, can or could say
I did not fight fair. Nor did I ever press an advantage unduly or
profit by the necessities of a competitor.

Here was one enemy, sneaking through the trade with his lying tongue,
always under cover, doing his utmost to injure me. Had that man
forgotten the day in 1888 when he came to my office and told me he
would be ruined unless our London friends would accept a compromise
from him and asked me to cable urging them to do so? Had he forgotten
how on the following day, when I showed him the reply reading,
"Risk of buyers does not concern us. Cannot assist," he raised his
hands, and shouting, "My God! what shall I do"? almost collapsed?
_Surely_ he must have forgotten how I told him that I would stand
between him and ruin, allowed him to settle on his own terms, and
carried him along for years.

Here was another enemy, a different stripe of man. He sat in
his palatial office and never let an opportunity pass to thrust a
knife in my back. His blows, less coarse and brutal, were even more
effective, for they were backed by the weight of great wealth and
respectability. An adept in the refinement of cruelty, between
Sundays, when as a vestryman of a prominent church he presumably
asked forgiveness of his sins, he did all that he could by false
insinuations to help along the work of putting down and out forever
the man who had never done him an injury, or conquered him in any
way not warranted by fair and generous business competition.

There were many like this man.

I had to fight against practically unlimited wealth in the hands
of a score of bitter enemies, men without conscience in the matter
of crushing a competitor.  Anything to beat Stowe was the war-cry;
get the orders away from him, no matter what the cost, the plan
of campaign. Those men knew I could not long survive if they could
keep me from getting business.

To fight them back I had complete knowledge of the trade, great
personal popularity with my customers, and only eighty-five hundred
dollars capital.  The last item was the weak point. Had I controlled
even only one hundred thousand dollars I believe with all their
wealth I could have beaten them to a standstill.

My customers stood nobly by me. There were hundreds of instances
when telegrams came to the office advising me of my competitors'
quotations and giving me the opportunity to meet the price and
secure the business. I never lost an order that the buyer did not
write and express his regret at our failure to secure it; but I
could not do business at a loss, my competitors knew this, and that
sooner or later they must surely win the fight.

From business on the Exchange I was barred until after final
settlement with creditors. As a matter of fact this was more of a
loss to the Exchange than to me. During 1895 our name had appeared
on the contracts of fully ninety per cent.  of all the business
done on the floor, and in the five years immediately following our
failure the entire business did not equal that of any two months
in 1895.

On December 3lst, I found the volume of business for the year had
been less than a million of dollars as compared with nearly fifteen
millions in 1895.

Competition had cut into the percentage of profit to such an
extent that what I had made was insufficient to counterbalance my
expenditures.

Office and home expenses had been kept down to small figures;
I had made the regular monthly payments to Mrs. Slater and to Mr.
Pell and in addition made some payments of interest on the moral
obligations to our Connecticut friends, but my little capital had
to some extent been impaired.

The year at Westfield in its home life was far from unpleasant.
Our reduced circumstances had not deprived us of the ordinary
comforts. We still had our library and the handsome appointments of
our former home, and though these latter were out of keeping with
the house we enjoyed them.

The game of billiards after dinner, while I smoked my cigar, served
to distract for the time being my thoughts from business worries,
and for out-of-door exercise we took almost daily spins on our
wheels, which had been substituted for the horses.

We made one delightful trip on those wheels during the summer. With
my wife, a son, and a daughter, we started on Friday afternoon,
and after spending the night in Morristown, went on the next day
to Lake Hopatcong, returning home on Monday (Labor Day).

On Sunday, in our wandering, we visited all the familiar spots and
recalled the many drag trips we had taken there with our friends
as our guests and wondered if we would ever again repeat those
pleasant experiences.

We dwelt particularly on one trip, brought to mind by a visit to
the Bertrand Island Club. While there we looked back in the register
at a sketch made by my friend and architect, Charlie Fitch. He and
his wife were included with our guests on that occasion, and after
asking me to allow him to register the party he filled a page with
an artistic sketch of "Redstone" with the drag in the foreground.

Charlie Wood a