 life
     Yet lives not.  He is blest, ceasing to be.
OM, MANI PADME, OM! the Dewdrop slips
     Into the shining sea!


This is the doctrine of the KARMA.  Learn!
     Only when all the dross of sin is quit,
Only when life dies like a white flame spent
     Death dies along with it.

Say not "I am," "I was," or "I shall be,"
     Think not ye pass from house to house of flesh
Like travelers who remember and forget,
     Ill-lodged or well-lodged.  Fresh

Issues upon the Universe that sum
     Which is the lattermost of lives.
It makes Its habitation as the worm spins silk
     And dwells therein.  It takes

Function and substance as the snake's egg hatched
     Takes scale and fang; as feathered reedseeds fly
O'er rock and loam and sand, until they find
     Their marsh and multiply.

Also it issues forth to help or hurt.
     When Death the bitter murderer doth smite,
Red roams the unpurged fragment of him, driven
     On wings of plague and blight.

But when the mild and just die, sweet airs breathe;
     The world grows richer, as if desert-stream
Should sink away to sparkle up again
     Purer, with broader gleam.

So merit won winneth the happier age
     Which by demerit halteth short of end;
Yet must this Law of Love reign King of all
     Before the Kalpas end.

What lets?--Brothers?  the Darkness lets! which breeds
     Ignorance, mazed whereby ye take these shows
For true, and thirst to have, and, having, cling
     To lusts which work you woes.

Ye that will tread the Middle Road, whose course
     Bright Reason traces and soft
Quiet smoothes; Ye who will take the high Nirvana-way,
     List the Four Noble Truths.

The First Truth is of Sorrow. Be not mocked!
     Life which ye prize is long-drawn agony:
Only its pains abide; its pleasures are
     As birds which light and fly,

Ache of the birth, ache of the helpless days,
     Ache of hot youth and ache of manhood's prime;
Ache of the chill grey years and choking death,
     These fill your piteous time.

Sweet is fond Love, but funeral-flames must kiss
     The breasts which pillow and the lips which cling;
Gallant is warlike Might, but vultures pick
     The joints of chief and King.

Beauteous is Earth, but all its forest-broods
     Plot mutual slaughter, hungering to live;
Of sapphire are the skies, but when men cry
     Famished, no drops they give.

Ask of the sick, the mourners, ask of him
     Who tottereth on his staff, lone and forlorn,
"Liketh thee life?"--these say the babe is wise
     That weepeth, being born.

The Second Truth is Sorrow's Cause.  What grief
     Springs of itself and springs not of Desire?
Senses and things perceived mingle and light
     Passion's quick spark of fire:

So flameth Trishna, lust and thirst of things.
     Eager ye cleave to shadows, dote on dreams.
A false Self in the midst ye plant, and make
     A world around which seems;

Blind to the height beyond, deaf to the sound
     Of sweet airs breathed from far past Indra's sky;
Dumb to the summons of the true life kept
     For him who false puts by.

So grow the strifes and lusts which make earth's war,
     So grieve poor cheated hearts and flow salt tears;
So wag the passions, envies, angers, hates;
     So years chase blood-stained years

With wild red feet.  So, where the grain should grow,
     Spreads the biran-weed with its evil root
And poisonous blossoms; hardly good seeds find
     Soil where to fall and shoot;

And drugged with poisonous drink the soul departs,
     And fierce with thirst to drink Karma returns;
Sense-struck again the sodden self begins,
     And new deceits it earns

The Third is Sorrow's Ceasing.  This is peace--
     To conquer love of self and lust of life,
To tear deep-rooted passion from the breast,
     To still the inward strife;

For love, to clasp Eternal Beauty close;
     For glory, to be lord of self; for pleasure,
To live beyond the gods; for countless wealth,
     To lay up lasting treasure

Of perfect service rendered, duties done
     In charity, soft speech, and stainless days
These riches shall not fade away in life,
     Nor any death dispraise.

Then Sorrow ends, for Life and Death have ceased;
     How should lamps flicker when their oil is spent?
The old sad count is clear, the new is clean;
     Thus hath a man content.


The Fourth Truth is The Way. It openeth wide,
     Plain for all feet to tread, easy and near,
The Noble Eightfold Path; it goeth straight
     To peace and refuge.  Hear!

Manifold tracks lead to yon sister-peaks
     Around whose snows the gilded clouds are curled
By steep or gentle slopes the climber comes
     Where breaks that other world.

Strong limbs may dare the rugged road which storms,
     Soaring and perilous, the mountain's breast;
The weak must wind from slower ledge to ledge
     With many a place of rest.

So is the Eightfold Path which brings to peace;
     By lower or by upper heights it goes.
The firm soul hastes, the feeble tarries.  All
     Will reach the sunlit snows.

The First good Level is Right Doctrine.
     Walk In fear of Dharma, shunning all offence;
In heed of Karma, which doth make man's fate;
     In lordship over sense.

The Second is Right Purpose.  Have good-will
     To all that lives, letting unkindness die
And greed and wrath; so that your lives be made
     Like soft airs passing by.

The Third is Right Discourse.  Govern the lips
     As they were palace-doors, the King within;
Tranquil and fair and courteous be all words
     Which from that presence win.

The Fourth is Right Behavior.  Let each act
     Assoil a fault or help a merit grow;
Like threads of silver seen through crystal beads
     Let love through good deeds show.

Four higher roadways be.    Only those feet
     May tread them which have done with earthly things--
Right Purity, Right Thought, Right Loneliness,
     Right Rapture.  Spread no wings

For sunward flight, thou soul with unplumed vans
     Sweet is the lower air and safe, and known
The homely levels: only strong ones leave
     The nest each makes his own.

Dear is the love, I know, of Wife and Child;
     Pleasant the friends and pastimes of your years;
Fruitful of good Life's gentle charities;
     False, though firm-set, its fears.

Live--ye who must--such lives as live on these;
     Make golden stair-ways of your weakness; rise
By daily sojourn with those phantasies
     To lovelier verities.

So shall ye pass to clearer heights and find
     Easier ascents and lighter loads of sins,
And larger will to burst the bonds of sense,
     Entering the Path.  Who wins

To such commencement hath the First Stage touched;
     He knows the Noble Truths, the Eightfold Road;
By few or many steps such shall attain
     NIRVANA's blest abode.

Who standeth at the Second Stage, made free
     From doubts, delusions, and the inward strife,
Lord of all lusts, quit of the priests and books,
     Shall live but one more life.

Yet onward lies the Third Stage: purged and pure
     Hath grown the stately spirit here, hath risen
To love all living things in perfect peace.
      His life at end, life's prison

Is broken.  Nay, there are who surely pass
     Living and visible to utmost goal
By Fourth Stage of the Holy ones--the Buddhs--
     And they of stainless soul.

Lo! like fierce foes slain by some warrior,
     Ten sins along these Stages lie in dust,
The Love of Self, False Faith, and Doubt are three,
     Two more, Hatred and Lust.

Who of these Five is conqueror hath trod
     Three stages out of Four: yet there abide
The Love of Life on earth, Desire for Heaven,
     Self-Praise, Error, and Pride.

As one who stands on yonder snowy horn
     Having nought o'er him but the boundless blue,
So, these sins being slain, the man is come
     NIRVANA's verge unto.

Him the Gods envy from their lower seats;
     Him the Three Worlds in ruin should not shake;
All life is lived for him, all deaths are dead;
     Karma will no more make

New houses.  Seeking nothing, he gains all;
     Foregoing self, the Universe grows "I":
If any teach NIRVANA is to cease,
     Say unto such they lie.

If any teach NIRVANA is to live,
     Say unto such they err; not knowing this,
Nor what light shines beyond their broken lamps,
     Nor lifeless, timeless bliss.

Enter the Path!  There is no grief like Hate!
     No pains like passions, no deceit like sense!
Enter the Path! far hath he gone whose foot
     Treads down one fond offence.

Enter the Path!  There spring the healing streams
     Quenching all thirst! there bloom th' immortal flowers
Carpeting all the way with joy! there throng,
     Swiftest and sweetest hours!


More is the treasure of the Law than gems;
     Sweeter than comb its sweetness; its delights
Delightful past compare.  Thereby to live
     Hear the Five Rules aright:--

Kill not--for Pity's sake--and lest ye slay
The meanest thing upon its upward way.

Give freely and receive, but take from none
By greed, or force, or fraud, what is his own.

Bear not false witness, slander not, nor lie;
Truth is the speech of inward purity.

Shun drugs and drinks which work the wit abuse;
Clear minds, clean bodies, need no soma juice.

Touch not thy neighbour's wife, neither commit
Sins of the flesh unlawful and unfit.

These words the Master spake of duties due
To father, mother, children, fellows, friends;
Teaching how such as may not swiftly break
The clinging chains of sense--whose feet are weak
To tread the higher road--should order so
This life of flesh that all their hither days
Pass blameless in discharge of charities
And first true footfalls in the Eightfold Path;
Living pure, reverent, patient, pitiful,
Loving all things which live even as themselves;
Because what falls for ill is fruit of ill
Wrought in the past, and what falls well of good;
And that by howsomuch the householder
Purgeth himself of self and helps the world,
By so much happier comes he to next stage,
In so much bettered being.  This he spake,
As also long before, when our Lord walked
By Rajagriha in the Bamboo-Grove
For on a dawn he walked there and beheld
The householder Singala, newly bathed,
Bowing himself with bare head to the earth,
To Heaven, and all four quarters; while he threw
Rice, red and white, from both hands.  "Wherefore thus
Bowest thou, Brother?" said the Lord; and he,
"It is the way, Great Sir! our fathers taught
At every dawn, before the toil begins,
To hold off evil from the sky above
And earth beneath, and all the winds which blow."
Then the World-honoured spake: "Scatter not rice,
But offer loving thoughts and acts to all.
To parents as the East where rises light;
To teachers as the South whence rich gifts come;
To wife and children as the West where gleam
Colours of love and calm, and all days end;
To friends and kinsmen and all men as North;
To humblest living things beneath, to Saints
And Angels and the blessed Dead above
So shall all evil be shut off, and so
The six main quarters will be safely kept."

But to his own, them of the yellow robe
They who, as wakened eagles, soar with scorn
From life's low vale, and wing towards the Sun
To these he taught the Ten Observances
The Dasa-Sil, and how a mendicant
Must know the Three Doors and the Triple Thoughts;
The Sixfold States of Mind; the Fivefold Powers;
The Eight High Gates of Purity; the Modes
Of Understanding; Iddhi; Upeksha;
The Five Great Meditations, which are food
Sweeter than Amrit for the holy soul;
The Jhana's and the Three Chief Refuges.
Also he taught his own how they should dwell;
How live, free from the snares of love and wealth;
What eat and drink and carry--three plain cloths,
Yellow, of stitched stuff, worn with shoulder bare
A girdle, almsbowl, strainer.  Thus he laid
The great foundations of our Sangha well,
That noble Order of the Yellow Robe
Which to this day standeth to help the World.

     So all that night he spake, teaching the Law
And on no eyes fell sleep--for they who heard
Rejoiced with tireless joy.  Also the King,
When this was finished, rose upon his throne
And with bared feet bowed low before his Son
Kissing his hem; and said, "Take me, O Son!
Lowest and least of all thy Company."
And sweet Yasodhara, all happy now,--
Cried "Give to Rahula--thou Blessed One!
The Treasure of the Kingdom of thy Word
For his inheritance."   Thus passed these Three
Into the Path.
------------

Here endeth what I write
Who love the Master for his love of us,
A little knowing, little have I told
Touching the Teacher and the Ways of Peace.
Forty-five rains thereafter showed he those
In many lands and many tongues and gave
Our Asia light, that still is beautiful,
Conquering the world with spirit of strong grace
All which is written in the holy Books,
And where he passed and what proud Emperors
Carved his sweet words upon the rocks and caves:
And how--in fulness of the times--it fell
The Buddha died, the great Tathagato,
Even as a man 'mongst men, fulfilling all
And how a thousand thousand crores since then
Have trod the Path which leads whither he went
Unto NIRVANA where the Silence lives.

     Ah! Blessed Lord!  Oh, High Deliverer!
Forgive this feeble script, which doth thee wrong.
Measuring with little wit thy lofty love.
Ah!  Lover!  Brother!  Guide!  Lamp of the law!
I take my refuge in they name and thee!
I take my refuge in they order!  OM!
The dew is on the lotus!--Rise, Great Sun!
And lift my leaf and mix me with the wave.
Om Mani Padme Hum, the sunrise comes!
The Dewdrop Slips Into The Shining Sea!


The End





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Light of Asia, by Sir Edwin Arnold





Produced by John Bickers and Dagny




                             L'ASSOMMOIR

                                  BY

                              EMILE ZOLA



                              CHAPTER I.

Gervaise had waited up for Lantier until two in the morning. Then,
shivering from having remained in a thin loose jacket, exposed to the
fresh air at the window, she had thrown herself across the bed,
drowsy, feverish, and her cheeks bathed in tears.

For a week past, on leaving the "Two-Headed Calf," where they took
their meals, he had sent her home with the children and never
reappeared himself till late at night, alleging that he had been in
search of work. That evening, while watching for his return, she
thought she had seen him enter the dancing-hall of the "Grand-
Balcony," the ten blazing windows of which lighted up with the glare
of a conflagration the dark expanse of the exterior Boulevards; and
five or six paces behind him, she had caught sight of little Adele, a
burnisher, who dined at the same restaurant, swinging her hands, as if
she had just quitted his arm so as not to pass together under the
dazzling light of the globes at the door.

When, towards five o'clock, Gervaise awoke, stiff and sore, she broke
forth into sobs. Lantier had not returned. For the first time he had
slept away from home. She remained seated on the edge of the bed,
under the strip of faded chintz, which hung from the rod fastened to
the ceiling by a piece of string. And slowly, with her eyes veiled by
tears, she glanced round the wretched lodging, furnished with a walnut
chest of drawers, minus one drawer, three rush-bottomed chairs, and a
little greasy table, on which stood a broken water-jug. There had been
added, for the children, an iron bedstead, which prevented any one
getting to the chest of drawers, and filled two-thirds of the room.
Gervaise's and Lantier's trunk, wide open, in one corner, displayed
its emptiness, and a man's old hat right at the bottom almost buried
beneath some dirty shirts and socks; whilst, against the walls, above
the articles of furniture, hung a shawl full of holes, and a pair of
trousers begrimed with mud, the last rags which the dealers in second-
hand clothes declined to buy. In the centre of the mantel-piece, lying
between two odd zinc candle-sticks, was a bundle of pink pawn-tickets.
It was the best room of the hotel, the first floor room, looking on to
the Boulevard.

The two children were sleeping side by side, with their heads on the
same pillow. Claude, aged eight years, was breathing quietly, with his
little hands thrown outside the coverlet; while Etienne, only four
years old, was smiling, with one arm round his brother's neck! And
bare-footed, without thinking to again put on the old shoes that had
fallen on the floor, she resumed her position at the window, her eyes
searching the pavements in the distance.

The hotel was situated on the Boulevard de la Chapelle, to the left of
the Barriere Poissonniere. It was a building of two stories high,
painted a red, of the color of wine dregs, up to the second floor, and
with shutters all rotted by the rain. Over a lamp with starred panes
of glass, one could manage to read, between the two windows, the
words, "Hotel Boncoeur, kept by Marsoullier," painted in big yellow
letters, several pieces of which the moldering of the plaster had
carried away. The lamp preventing her seeing, Gervaise raised herself
on tiptoe, still holding the handkerchief to her lips. She looked to
the right, towards the Boulevard Rochechouart, where groups of
butchers, in aprons smeared with blood, were hanging about in front of
the slaughter-houses; and the fresh breeze wafted occasionally a
stench of slaughtered beasts. Looking to the left, she scanned a long
avenue that ended nearly in front of her, where the white mass of the
Lariboisiere Hospital was then in course of construction. Slowly, from
one end of the horizon to the other, she followed the octroi wall,
behind which she sometimes heard, during night time, the shrieks of
persons being murdered; and she searchingly looked into the remote
angles, the dark corners, black with humidity and filth, fearing to
discern there Lantier's body, stabbed to death.

She looked at the endless gray wall that surrounded the city with its
belt of desolation. When she raised her eyes higher, she became aware
of a bright burst of sunlight. The dull hum of the city's awakening
already filled the air. Craning her neck to look at the Poissonniere
gate, she remained for a time watching the constant stream of men,
horses, and carts which flooded down from the heights of Montmartre
and La Chapelle, pouring between the two squat octroi lodges. It was
like a herd of plodding cattle, an endless throng widened by sudden
stoppages into eddies that spilled off the sidewalks into the street,
a steady procession of laborers on their way back to work with tools
slung over their back and a loaf of bread under their arm. This human
inundation kept pouring down into Paris to be constantly swallowed up.
Gervaise leaned further out at the risk of falling when she thought
she recognized Lantier among the throng. She pressed the handkerchief
tighter against her mouth, as though to push back the pain within her.

The sound of a young and cheerful voice caused her to leave the
window.

"So the old man isn't here, Madame Lantier?"

"Why, no, Monsieur Coupeau," she replied, trying to smile.

Coupeau, a zinc-worker who occupied a ten franc room on the top floor,
having seen the door unlocked, had walked in as friends will do.

"You know," he continued, "I'm now working over there in the hospital.
What beautiful May weather, isn't it? The air is rather sharp this
morning."

And he looked at Gervaise's face, red with weeping. When he saw that
the bed had not been slept in, he shook his head gently; then he went
to the children's couch where they were sleeping, looking as rosy as
cherubs, and, lowering his voice, he said,

"Come, the old man's not been home, has he? Don't worry yourself,
Madame Lantier. He's very much occupied with politics. When they were
voting for Eugene Sue the other day, he was acting almost crazy. He
has very likely spent the night with some friends blackguarding
crapulous Bonaparte."

"No, no," she murmured with an effort. "You don't think that. I know
where Lantier is. You see, we have our little troubles like the rest
of the world!"

Coupeau winked his eye, to indicate he was not a dupe of this
falsehood; and he went off, after offering to fetch her milk, if she
did not care to go out: she was a good and courageous woman, and might
count upon him on any day of trouble.

As soon as he was gone, Gervaise again returned to the window. At the
Barriere, the tramp of the drove still continued in the morning air:
locksmiths in short blue blouses, masons in white jackets, house
painters in overcoats over long smocks. From a distance the crowd
looked like a chalky smear of neutral hue composed chiefly of faded
blue and dingy gray. When one of the workers occasionally stopped to
light his pipe the others kept plodding past him, without sparing a
laugh or a word to a comrade. With cheeks gray as clay, their eyes
were continually drawn toward Paris which was swallowing them one by
one.

At both corners of the Rue des Poissonniers however, some of the men
slackened their pace as they neared the doors of the two wine-dealers
who were taking down their shutters; and, before entering, they stood
on the edge of the pavement, looking sideways over Paris, with no
strength in their arms and already inclined for a day of idleness.
Inside various groups were already buying rounds of drinks, or just
standing around, forgetting their troubles, crowding up the place,
coughing, spitting, clearing their throats with sip after sip.

Gervaise was watching Pere Colombe's wineshop to the left of the
street, where she thought she had seen Lantier, when a stout woman,
bareheaded and wearing an apron called to her from the middle of the
roadway:

"Hey, Madame Lantier, you're up very early!"

Gervaise leaned out. "Why! It's you, Madame Boche! Oh! I've got a lot
of work to-day!"

"Yes, things don't do themselves, do they?"

The conversation continued between roadway and window. Madame Boche
was concierge of the building where the "Two-Headed Calf" was on the
ground floor. Gervaise had waited for Lantier more than once in the
concierge's lodge, so as not to be alone at table with all the men who
ate at the restaurant. Madame Boche was going to a tailor who was late
in mending an overcoat for her husband. She mentioned one of her
tenants who had come in with a woman the night before and kept
everybody awake past three in the morning. She looked at Gervaise with
intense curiosity.

"Is Monsieur Lantier, then, still in bed?" she asked abruptly.

"Yes, he's asleep," replied Gervaise, who could not avoid blushing.

Madame Boche saw the tears come into her eyes; and, satisfied no
doubt, she turned to go, declaring men to be a cursed, lazy set. As
she went off, she called back:

"It's this morning you go to the wash-house, isn't it? I've something
to wash, too. I'll keep you a place next to me, and we can chat
together." Then, as if moved with sudden pity, she added:

"My poor little thing, you had far better not remain there; you'll
take harm. You look quite blue with cold."

Gervaise still obstinately remained at the window during two mortal
hours, till eight o'clock. Now all the shops had opened. Only a few
work men were still hurrying along.

The working girls now filled the boulevard: metal polishers,
milliners, flower sellers, shivering in their thin clothing. In small
groups they chattered gaily, laughing and glancing here and there.
Occasionally there would be one girl by herself, thin, pale, serious-
faced, picking her way along the city wall among the puddles and the
filth.

After the working girls, the office clerks came past, breathing upon
their chilled fingers and munching penny rolls. Some of them are gaunt
young fellows in ill-fitting suits, their tired eyes still fogged from
sleep. Others are older men, stooped and tottering, with faces pale
and drawn from long hours of office work and glancing nervously at
their watches for fear of arriving late.

In time the Boulevards settle into their usual morning quiet. Old
folks come out to stroll in the sun. Tired young mothers in bedraggled
skirts cuddle babies in their arms or sit on a bench to change
diapers. Children run, squealing and laughing, pushing and shoving.

Then Gervaise felt herself choking, dizzy with anguish, all hopes
gone; it seemed to her that everything was ended, even time itself,
and that Lantier would return no more. Her eyes vacantly wandered from
the old slaughter-house, foul with butchery and with stench, to the
new white hospital which, through the yawning openings of its ranges
of windows, disclosed the naked wards, where death was preparing to
mow. In front of her on the other side of the octroi wall the bright
heavens dazzled her, with the rising sun which rose higher and higher
over the vast awaking city.

The young woman was seated on a chair, no longer crying, and with her
hands abandoned on her lap, when Lantier quietly entered the room.

"It's you! It's you!" she cried, rising to throw herself upon his
neck.

"Yes, it's me. What of it?" he replied. "You are not going to begin
any of your nonsense, I hope!"

He had pushed her aside. Then, with a gesture of ill-humor he threw
his black felt hat to the chest of drawers. He was a young fellow of
twenty-six years of age, short and very dark, with a handsome figure,
and slight moustaches which his hand was always mechanically twirling.
He wore a workman's overalls and an old soiled overcoat, which he had
belted tightly at the waist, and he spoke with a strong Provencal
accent.

Gervaise, who had fallen back on her chair, gently complained, in
short sentences: "I've not had a wink of sleep. I feared some harm had
happened to you. Where have you been? Where did you spend the night?
For heaven's sake! Don't do it again, or I shall go crazy. Tell me
Auguste, where have you been?"

"Where I had business, of course," he returned shrugging his
shoulders. "At eight o'clock, I was at La Glaciere, with my friend who
is to start a hat factory. We sat talking late, so I preferred to
sleep there. Now, you know, I don't like being spied upon, so just
shut up!"

The young woman recommenced sobbing. The loud voices and the rough
movements of Lantier, who upset the chairs, had awakened the children.
They sat up in bed, half naked, disentangling their hair with their
tiny hands, and, hearing their mother weep, they uttered terrible
screams, crying also with their scarcely open eyes.

"Ah! there's the music!" shouted Lantier furiously. "I warn you, I'll
take my hook! And it will be for good, this time. You won't shut up?
Then, good morning! I'll return to the place I've just come from."

He had already taken his hat from off the chest of drawers. But
Gervaise threw herself before him, stammering: "No, no!"

And she hushed the little ones' tears with her caresses, smoothed
their hair, and soothed them with soft words. The children, suddenly
quieted, laughing on their pillow, amused themselves by punching each
other. The father however, without even taking off his boots, had
thrown himself on the bed looking worn out, his face bearing signs of
having been up all night. He did not go to sleep, he lay with his eyes
wide open, looking round the room.

"It's a mess here!" he muttered. And after observing Gervaise a
moment, he malignantly added: "Don't you even wash yourself now?"

Gervaise was twenty-two, tall and slim with fine features, but she was
already beginning to show the strain of her hard life. She seemed to
have aged ten years from the hours of agonized weeping. Lantier's mean
remark made her mad.

"You're not fair," she said spiritedly. "You well know I do all I can.
It's not my fault we find ourselves here. I would like to see you,
with two children, in a room where there's not even a stove to heat
some water. When we arrived in Paris, instead of squandering your
money, you should have made a home for us at once, as you promised."

"Listen!" Lantier exploded. "You cracked the nut with me; it doesn't
become you to sneer at it now!"

Apparently not listening, Gervaise went on with her own thought. "If
we work hard we can get out of the hole we're in. Madame Fauconnier,
the laundress on Rue Neuve, will start me on Monday. If you work with
your friend from La Glaciere, in six months we will be doing well.
We'll have enough for decent clothes and a place we can call our own.
But we'll have to stick with it and work hard."

Lantier turned over towards the wall, looking greatly bored. Then
Gervaise lost her temper.

"Yes, that's it, I know the love of work doesn't trouble you much.
You're bursting with ambition, you want to be dressed like a
gentleman. You don't think me nice enough, do you, now that you've
made me pawn all my dresses? Listen, Auguste, I didn't intend to speak
of it, I would have waited a bit longer, but I know where you spent
the night; I saw you enter the 'Grand-Balcony' with that trollop
Adele. Ah! you choose them well! She's a nice one, she is! She does
well to put on the airs of a princess! She's been the ridicule of
every man who frequents the restaurant."

At a bound Lantier sprang from the bed. His eyes had become as black
as ink in his pale face. With this little man, rage blew like a
tempest.

"Yes, yes, of every man who frequents the restaurant!" repeated the
young woman. "Madame Boche intends to give them notice, she and her
long stick of a sister, because they've always a string of men after
them on the staircase."

Lantier raised his fists; then, resisting the desire of striking her,
he seized hold of her by the arms, shook her violently and sent her
sprawling upon the bed of the children, who recommenced crying. And he
lay down again, mumbling, like a man resolving on something that he
previously hesitated to do:

"You don't know what you've done, Gervaise. You've made a big mistake;
you'll see."

For an instant the children continued sobbing. Their mother, who
remained bending over the bed, held them both in her embrace, and kept
repeating the same words in a monotonous tone of voice.

"Ah! if it weren't for you! My poor little ones! If it weren't for
you! If it weren't for you!"

Stretched out quietly, his eyes raised to the faded strip of chintz,
Lantier no longer listened, but seemed to be buried in a fixed idea.
He remained thus for nearly an hour, without giving way to sleep, in
spite of the fatigue which weighed his eyelids down.

He finally turned toward Gervaise, his face set hard in determination.
She had gotten the children up and dressed and had almost finished
cleaning the room. The room looked, as always, dark and depressing
with its sooty black ceiling and paper peeling from the damp walls.
The dilapidated furniture was always streaked and dirty despite
frequent dustings. Gervaise, devouring her grief, trying to assume a
look of indifference, hurried over her work.

Lantier watched as she tidied her hair in front of the small mirror
hanging near the window. While she washed herself he looked at her
bare arms and shoulders. He seemed to be making comparisons in his
mind as his lips formed a grimace. Gervaise limped with her right leg,
though it was scarcely noticeable except when she was tired. To-day,
exhausted from remaining awake all night, she was supporting herself
against the wall and dragging her leg.

Neither one spoke, they had nothing more to say. Lantier seemed to be
waiting, while Gervaise kept busy and tried to keep her countenance
expressionless. Finally, while she was making a bundle of the dirty
clothes thrown in a corner, behind the trunk, he at length opened his
lips and asked:

"What are you doing there? Where are you going?"

She did not answer at first. Then, when he furiously repeated his
question, she made up her mind, and said:

"I suppose you can see for yourself. I'm going to wash all this. The
children can't live in filth."

He let her pick up two or three handkerchiefs. And, after a fresh
pause, he resumed: "Have you got any money?"

At these words she stood up and looked him full in the face, without
leaving go of the children's dirty clothes, which she held in her
hand.

"Money! And where do you think I can have stolen any? You know well
enough that I got three francs the day before yesterday on my black
skirt. We've lunched twice off it, and money goes quick at the pork-
butcher's. No, you may be quite sure I've no money. I've four sous for
the wash-house. I don't have an extra income like some women."

He let this allusion pass. He had moved off the bed, and was passing
in review the few rags hanging about the room. He ended by taking up
the pair of trousers and the shawl, and searching the drawers, he
added two chemises and a woman's loose jacket to the parcel; then, he
threw the whole bundle into Gervaise's arms, saying:

"Here, go and pop this."

"Don't you want me to pop the children as well?" asked she. "Eh! If
they lent on children, it would be a fine riddance!"

She went to the pawn-place, however. When she returned at the end of
half an hour, she laid a hundred sou piece on the mantel-shelf, and
added the ticket to the others, between the two candlesticks.

"That's what they gave me," said she. "I wanted six francs, but I
couldn't manage it. Oh! they'll never ruin themselves. And there's
always such a crowd there!"

Lantier did not pick up the five franc piece directly. He would
rather that she got change, so as to leave her some of it. But he
decided to slip it into his waistcoat pocket, when he noticed a small
piece of ham wrapped up in paper, and the remains of a loaf on the
chest of drawers.

"I didn't dare go to the milkwoman's, because we owe her a week,"
explained Gervaise. "But I shall be back early; you can get some bread
and some chops whilst I'm away, and then we'll have lunch. Bring also
a bottle of wine."

He did not say no. Their quarrel seemed to be forgotten. The young
woman was completing her bundle of dirty clothes. But when she went to
take Lantier's shirts and socks from the bottom of the trunk, he
called to her to leave them alone.

"Leave my things, d'ye hear? I don't want 'em touched!"

"What's it you don't want touched?" she asked, rising up. "I suppose
you don't mean to put these filthy things on again, do you? They must
be washed."

She studied his boyishly handsome face, now so rigid that it seemed
nothing could ever soften it. He angrily grabbed his things from her
and threw them back into the trunk, saying:

"Just obey me, for once! I tell you I won't have 'em touched!"

"But why?" she asked, turning pale, a terrible suspicion crossing her
mind. "You don't need your shirts now, you're not going away. What can
it matter to you if I take them?"

He hesitated for an instant, embarrassed by the piercing glance she
fixed upon him. "Why--why--" stammered he, "because you go and tell
everyone that you keep me, that you wash and mend. Well! It worries
me, there! Attend to your own business and I'll attend to mine,
washerwomen don't work for dogs."

She supplicated, she protested she had never complained; but he
roughly closed the trunk and sat down upon it, saying, "No!" to her
face. He could surely do as he liked with what belonged to him! Then,
to escape from the inquiring looks she leveled at him, he went and
laid down on the bed again, saying that he was sleepy, and requesting
her not to make his head ache with any more of her row. This time
indeed, he seemed to fall asleep. Gervaise, for a while, remained
undecided. She was tempted to kick the bundle of dirty clothes on one
side, and to sit down and sew. But Lantier's regular breathing ended
by reassuring her. She took the ball of blue and the piece of soap
remaining from her last washing, and going up to the little ones who
were quietly playing with some old corks in front of the window, she
kissed them, and said in a low voice:

"Be very good, don't make any noise; papa's asleep."

When she left the room, Claude's and Etienne's gentle laughter alone
disturbed the great silence beneath the blackened ceiling. It was ten
o'clock. A ray of sunshine entered by the half open window.

On the Boulevard, Gervaise turned to the left, and followed the Rue
Neuve de la Goutte-d'Or. As she passed Madame Fauconnier's shop, she
slightly bowed her head. The wash-house she was bound for was situated
towards the middle of the street, at the part where the roadway
commenced to ascend.

The rounded, gray contours of the three large zinc wash tanks, studded
with rivets, rose above the flat-roofed building. Behind them was the
drying room, a high second story, closed in on all sides by narrow-
slatted lattices so that the air could circulate freely, and through
which laundry could be seen hanging on brass wires. The steam engine's
smokestack exhaled puffs of white smoke to the right of the water
tanks.

Gervaise was used to puddles and did not bother to tuck her skirts up
before making her way through the doorway, which was cluttered with
jars of bleaching water. She was already acquainted with the mistress
of the wash-house, a delicate little woman with red, inflamed eyes,
who sat in a small glazed closet with account books in front of her,
bars of soap on shelves, balls of blue in glass bowls, and pounds of
soda done up in packets; and, as she passed, she asked for her beetle
and her scouring-brush, which she had left to be taken care of the
last time she had done her washing there. Then, after obtaining her
number, she entered the wash-house.

It was an immense shed, with large clear windows, and a flat ceiling,
showing the beams supported on cast-iron pillars. Pale rays of light
passed through the hot steam, which remained suspended like a milky
fog. Smoke arose from certain corners, spreading about and covering
the recesses with a bluish veil. A heavy moisture hung around,
impregnated with a soapy odor, a damp insipid smell, continuous though
at moments overpowered by the more potent fumes of the chemicals.
Along the washing-places, on either side of the central alley, were
rows of women, with bare arms and necks, and skirts tucked up, showing
colored stockings and heavy lace-up shoes. They were beating
furiously, laughing, leaning back to call out a word in the midst of
the din, or stooping over their tubs, all of them brutal, ungainly,
foul of speech, and soaked as though by a shower, with their flesh red
and reeking.

All around the women continuously flowed a river from hot-water
buckets emptied with a sudden splash, cold-water faucets left
dripping, soap suds spattering, and the dripping from rinsed laundry
which was hung up. It splashed their feet and drained away across the
sloping flagstones. The din of the shouting and the rhythmic beating
was joined by the patter of steady dripping. It was slightly muffled
by the moisture-soaked ceiling. Meanwhile, the steam engine could be
heard as it puffed and snorted ceaselessly while cloaked in its white
mist. The dancing vibration of its flywheel seemed to regulate the
volume of the noisy turbulence.

Gervaise passed slowly along the alley, looking to the right and left,
carrying her laundry bundle under one arm, with one hip thrust high
and limping more than usual. She was jostled by several women in the
hubbub.

"This way, my dear!" cried Madame Boche, in her loud voice. Then, when
the young woman had joined her at the very end on the left, the
concierge, who was furiously rubbing a dirty sock, began to talk
incessantly, without leaving off her work. "Put your things there,
I've kept your place. Oh, I sha'n't be long over what I've got. Boche
scarcely dirties his things at all. And you, you won't be long either,
will you? Your bundle's quite a little one. Before twelve o'clock we
shall have finished, and we can go off to lunch. I used to send my
things to a laundress in the Rue Poulet, but she destroyed everything
with her chlorine and her brushes; so now I do the washing myself.
It's so much saved; it only costs the soap. I say, you should have put
those shirts to soak. Those little rascals of children, on my word!
One would think their bodies were covered with soot."

Gervaise, having undone her bundle, was spreading out the little ones'
shirts, and as Madame Boche advised her to take a pailful of lye, she
answered, "Oh, no! warm water will do. I'm used to it." She had sorted
her laundry with several colored pieces to one side. Then, after
filling her tub with four pails of cold water from the tap behind her,
she plunged her pile of whites into it.

"You're used to it?" repeated Madame Boche. "You were a washerwoman in
your native place, weren't you, my dear?"

Gervaise, with her sleeves pushed back, displayed the graceful arms of
a young blonde, as yet scarcely reddened at the elbows, and started
scrubbing her laundry. She spread a shirt out on the narrow rubbing
board which was water-bleached and eroded by years of use. She rubbed
soap into the shirt, turned it over, and soaped the other side. Before
replying to Madame Boche she grasped her beetle and began to pound
away so that her shouted phrases were punctuated with loud and
rhythmic thumps.

"Yes, yes, a washerwoman--When I was ten--That's twelve years ago--We
used to go to the river--It smelt nicer there than it does here--You
should have seen, there was a nook under the trees, with clear running
water--You know, at Plassans--Don't you know Plassans?--It's near
Marseilles."

"How you go at it!" exclaimed Madame Boche, amazed at the strength of
her blows. "You could flatten out a piece of iron with your little
lady-like arms."

The conversation continued in a very high volume. At times, the
concierge, not catching what was said, was obliged to lean forward.
All the linen was beaten, and with a will! Gervaise plunged it into
the tub again, and then took it out once more, each article
separately, to rub it over with soap a second time and brush it. With
one hand she held the article firmly on the plank; with the other,
which grasped the short couch-grass brush, she extracted from the
linen a dirty lather, which fell in long drips. Then, in the slight
noise caused by the brush, the two women drew together, and conversed
in a more intimate way.

"No, we're not married," resumed Gervaise. "I don't hide it. Lantier
isn't so nice for any one to care to be his wife. If it weren't for
the children! I was fourteen and he was eighteen when we had our first
one. It happened in the usual way, you know how it is. I wasn't happy
at home. Old man Macquart would kick me in the tail whenever he felt
like it, for no reason at all. I had to have some fun outside. We
might have been married, but--I forget why--our parents wouldn't
consent."

She shook her hands, which were growing red in the white suds. "The
water's awfully hard in Paris."

Madame Boche was now washing only very slowly. She kept leaving off,
making her work last as long as she could, so as to remain there, to
listen to that story, which her curiosity had been hankering to know
for a fortnight past. Her mouth was half open in the midst of her big,
fat face; her eyes, which were almost at the top of her head, were
gleaming. She was thinking, with the satisfaction of having guessed
right.

"That's it, the little one gossips too much. There's been a row."

Then, she observed out loud, "He isn't nice, then?"

"Don't mention it!" replied Gervaise. "He used to behave very well in
the country; but, since we've been in Paris, he's been unbearable. I
must tell you that his mother died last year and left him some money--
about seventeen hundred francs. He would come to Paris, so, as old
Macquart was forever knocking me about without warning, I consented to
come away with him. We made the journey with two children. He was to
set me up as a laundress, and work himself at his trade of a hatter.
We should have been very happy; but, you see, Lantier's ambitious and
a spendthrift, a fellow who only thinks of amusing himself. In short,
he's not worth much. On arriving, we went to the Hotel Montmartre, in
the Rue Montmartre. And then there were dinners, and cabs, and the
theatre; a watch for himself and a silk dress for me, for he's not
unkind when he's got the money. You understand, he went in for
everything, and so well that at the end of two months we were cleaned
out. It was then that we came to live at the Hotel Boncoeur, and that
this horrible life began."

She interrupted herself. A lump had suddenly risen in her throat, and
she could scarcely restrain her tears. She had finished brushing the
things.

"I must go and fetch my hot water," she murmured.

But Madame Boche, greatly disappointed at this break off in the
disclosures, called to the wash-house boy, who was passing, "My little
Charles, kindly get madame a pail of hot water; she's in a hurry."

The youth took the bucket and brought it back filled. Gervaise paid
him; it was a sou the pailful. She poured the hot water into the tub,
and soaped the things a last time with her hands, leaning over them in
a mass of steam, which deposited small beads of grey vapor in her
light hair.

"Here put some soda in, I've got some by me," said the concierge,
obligingly.

And she emptied into Gervaise's tub what remained of a bag of soda
which she had brought with her. She also offered her some of the
chemical water, but the young woman declined it; it was only good for
grease and wine stains.

"I think he's rather a loose fellow," resumed Madame Boche, returning
to Lantier, but without naming him.

Gervaise, bent almost double, her hands all shriveled, and thrust in
amongst the clothes, merely tossed her head.

"Yes, yes," continued the other, "I have noticed several little
things--" But she suddenly interrupted herself, as Gervaise jumped up,
with a pale face, and staring wildly at her. Then she exclaimed, "Oh,
no! I don't know anything! He likes to laugh a bit, I think, that's
all. For instance, you know the two girls who lodge at my place, Adele
and Virginie. Well; he larks about with 'em, but he just flirts for
sport."

The young woman standing before her, her face covered with
perspiration, the water dripping from her arms, continued to stare at
her with a fixed and penetrating look. Then the concierge got excited,
giving herself a blow on the chest, and pledging her word of honor,
she cried:

"I know nothing, I mean it when I say so!"

Then calming herself, she added in a gentle voice, as if speaking to a
person on whom loud protestations would have no effect, "I think he
has a frank look about the eyes. He'll marry you, my dear, I'm sure of
it."

Gervaise wiped her forehead with her wet hand. Shaking her head again,
she pulled another garment out of the water. Both of them kept silence
for a moment. The wash-house was quieting down, for eleven o'clock had
struck. Half of the washerwomen were perched on the edge of their
tubs, eating sausages between slices of bread and drinking from open
bottles of wine. Only housewives who had come to launder small bundles
of family linen were hurrying to finish.

Occasional beetle blows could still be heard amid the subdued laughter
and gossip half-choked by the greedy chewing of jawbones. The steam
engine never stopped. Its vibrant, snorting voice seemed to fill the
entire hall, though not one of the women even heard it. It was like
the breathing of the wash-house, its hot breath collecting under the
ceiling rafters in an eternal floating mist.

The heat was becoming intolerable. Through the tall windows on the
left sunlight was streaming in, touching the steamy vapors with
opalescent tints of soft pinks and grayish blues. Charles went from
window to window, letting down the heavy canvas awnings. Then he
crossed to the shady side to open the ventilators. He was applauded by
cries and hand clapping and a rough sort of gaiety spread around. Soon
even the last of the beetle-pounding stopped.

With full mouths, the washerwomen could only make gestures. It became
so quiet that the grating sound of the fireman shoveling coal into
the engine's firebox could be heard at regular intervals from far at
the other end.

Gervaise was washing her colored things in the hot water thick with
lather, which she had kept for the purpose. When she had finished, she
drew a trestle towards her and hung across it all the different
articles; the drippings from which made bluish puddles on the floor;
and she commenced rinsing. Behind her, the cold water tap was set
running into a vast tub fixed to the ground, and across which were two
wooden bars whereon to lay the clothes. High up in the air were two
other bars for the things to finish dripping on.

"We're almost finished, and not a bad job," said Madame Boche. "I'll
wait and help you wring all that."

"Oh! it's not worth while; I'm much obliged though," replied the young
woman, who was kneading with her hands and sousing the colored things
in some clean water. "If I'd any sheets, it would be another thing."

But she had, however, to accept the concierge's assistance. They were
wringing between them, one at each end, a woolen skirt of a washed-out
chestnut color, from which dribbled a yellowish water, when Madame
Boche exclaimed:

"Why, there's tall Virginie! What has she come here to wash, when all
her wardrobe that isn't on her would go into a pocket handkerchief?"

Gervaise jerked her head up. Virginie was a girl of her own age,
taller than she was, dark and pretty in spite of her face being rather
long and narrow. She had on an old black dress with flounces, and a
red ribbon round her neck; and her hair was done up carefully, the
chignon being enclosed in a blue silk net. She stood an instant in the
middle of the central alley, screwing up her eyes as though seeking
someone; then, when she caught sight of Gervaise, she passed close to
her, erect, insolent, and with a swinging gait, and took a place in
the same row, five tubs away from her.

"There's a freak for you!" continued Madame Boche in a lower tone of
voice. "She never does any laundry, not even a pair of cuffs. A
seamstress who doesn't even sew on a loose button! She's just like her
sister, the brass burnisher, that hussy Adele, who stays away from her
job two days out of three. Nobody knows who their folks are or how
they make a living. Though, if I wanted to talk . . . What on earth is
she scrubbing there? A filthy petticoat. I'll wager it's seen some
lovely sights, that petticoat!"

Madame Boche was evidently trying to make herself agreeable to
Gervaise. The truth was she often took a cup of coffee with Adele and
Virginia, when the girls had any money. Gervaise did not answer, but
hurried over her work with feverish hands. She had just prepared her
blue in a little tub that stood on three legs. She dipped in the linen
things, and shook them an instant at the bottom of the colored water,
the reflection of which had a pinky tinge; and after wringing them
lightly, she spread them out on the wooden bars up above. During the
time she was occupied with this work, she made a point of turning her
back on Virginie. But she heard her chuckles; she could feel her
sidelong glances. Virginie appeared only to have come there to provoke
her. At one moment, Gervaise having turned around, they both stared
into each other's faces.

"Leave her alone," whispered Madame Boche. "You're not going to pull
each other's hair out, I hope. When I tell you there's nothing to it!
It isn't her, anyhow!"

At this moment, as the young woman was hanging up the last article of
clothing, there was a sound of laughter at the door of the wash-house.

"Here are two brats who want their mamma!" cried Charles.

All the women leant forward. Gervaise recognized Claude and Etienne.
As soon as they caught sight of her, they ran to her through the
puddles, the heels of their unlaced shoes resounding on the
flagstones. Claude, the eldest, held his little brother by the hand.
The women, as they passed them, uttered little exclamations of
affection as they noticed their frightened though smiling faces. And
they stood there, in front of their mother, without leaving go of each
other's hands, and holding their fair heads erect.

"Has papa sent you?" asked Gervaise.

But as she stooped to tie the laces of Etienne's shoes, she saw the
key of their room on one of Claude's fingers, with the brass number
hanging from it.

"Why, you've brought the key!" she said, greatly surprised. "What's
that for?"

The child, seeing the key which he had forgotten on his finger,
appeared to recollect, and exclaimed in his clear voice:

"Papa's gone away."

"He's gone to buy the lunch, and told you to come here to fetch me?"

Claude looked at his brother, hesitated, no longer recollecting. Then
he resumed all in a breath: "Papa's gone away. He jumped off the bed,
he put all the things in the trunk, he carried the trunk down to a
cab. He's gone away."

Gervaise, who was squatting down, slowly rose to her feet, her face
ghastly pale. She put her hands to her cheeks and temples, as though
she felt her head was breaking; and she could find only these words,
which she repeated twenty times in the same tone of voice:

"Ah! good heavens!--ah! good heavens!--ah! good heavens!"

Madame Boche, however, also questioned the child, quite delighted at
the chance of hearing the whole story.

"Come, little one, you must tell us just what happened. It was he who
locked the door and who told you to bring the key, wasn't it?" And,
lowering her voice, she whispered in Claude's ear: "Was there a lady
in the cab?"

The child again got confused. Then he recommenced his story in a
triumphant manner: "He jumped off the bed, he put all the things in
the trunk. He's gone away."

Then, when Madame Boche let him go, he drew his brother in front of
the tap, and they amused themselves by turning on the water. Gervaise
was unable to cry. She was choking, leaning back against her tub, her
face still buried in her hands. Brief shudders rocked her body and she
wailed out long sighs while pressing her hands tighter against her
eyes, as though abandoning herself to the blackness of desolation, a
dark, deep pit into which she seemed to be falling.

"Come, my dear, pull yourself together!" murmured Madame Boche.

"If you only knew! If you only knew!" said she at length very faintly.
"He sent me this morning to pawn my shawl and my chemises to pay for
that cab."

And she burst out crying. The memory of the events of that morning and
of her trip to the pawn-place tore from her the sobs that had been
choking her throat. That abominable trip to the pawn-place was the
thing that hurt most in all her sorrow and despair. Tears were
streaming down her face but she didn't think of using her
handkerchief.

"Be reasonable, do be quiet, everyone's looking at you," Madame Boche,
who hovered round her, kept repeating. "How can you worry yourself so
much on account of a man? You loved him, then, all the same, did you,
my poor darling? A little while ago you were saying all sorts of
things against him; and now you're crying for him, and almost breaking
your heart. Dear me, how silly we all are!"

Then she became quite maternal.

"A pretty little woman like you! Can it be possible? One may tell you
everything now, I suppose. Well! You recollect when I passed under
your window, I already had my suspicions. Just fancy, last night, when
Adele came home, I heard a man's footsteps with hers. So I thought I
would see who it was. I looked up the staircase. The fellow was
already on the second landing; but I certainly recognized Monsieur
Lantier's overcoat. Boche, who was on the watch this morning, saw him
tranquilly nod adieu. He was with Adele, you know. Virginie has a
situation now, where she goes twice a week. Only it's highly imprudent
all the same, for they've only one room and an alcove, and I can't
very well say where Virginie managed to sleep."

She interrupted herself an instant, turned round, and then resumed,
subduing her loud voice:

"She's laughing at seeing you cry, that heartless thing over there.
I'd stake my life that her washing's all a pretence. She's packed off
the other two, and she's come here so as to tell them how you take
it."

Gervaise removed her hands from her face and looked. When she beheld
Virginie in front of her, amidst three or four women, speaking low and
staring at her, she was seized with a mad rage. Her arms in front of
her, searching the ground, she stumbled forward a few paces. Trembling
all over, she found a bucket full of water, grabbed it with both
hands, and emptied it at Virginie.

"The virago!" yelled tall Virginie.

She had stepped back, and her boots alone got wet. The other women,
who for some minutes past had all been greatly upset by Gervaise's
tears, jostled each other in their anxiety to see the fight. Some, who
were finishing their lunch, got on the tops of their tubs. Others
hastened forward, their hands smothered with soap. A ring was formed.

"Ah! the virago!" repeated tall Virginie. "What's the matter with her?
She's mad!"

Gervaise, standing on the defensive, her chin thrust out, her features
convulsed, said nothing, not having yet acquired the Paris gift of
street gab. The other continued:

"Get out! This girl's tired of wallowing about in the country; she
wasn't twelve years old when the soldiers were at her. She even lost
her leg serving her country. That leg's rotting off."

The lookers-on burst out laughing. Virginie, seeing her success,
advanced a couple of steps, drawing herself up to her full height, and
yelling louder than ever:

"Here! Come a bit nearer, just to see how I'll settle you! Don't you
come annoying us here. Do I even know her, the hussy? If she'd wetted
me, I'd have pretty soon shown her battle, as you'd have seen. Let her
just say what I've ever done to her. Speak, you vixen; what's been
done to you?"

"Don't talk so much," stammered Gervaise. "You know well enough. Some
one saw my husband last night. And shut up, because if you don't I'll
most certainly strangle you."

"Her husband! That's a good one! As if cripples like her had husbands!
If he's left you it's not my fault. Surely you don't think I've stolen
him, do you? He was much too good for you and you made him sick. Did
you keep him on a leash? Has anyone here seen her husband? There's a
reward."

The laughter burst forth again. Gervaise contented herself with
continually murmuring in a low tone of voice:

"You know well enough, you know well enough. It's your sister. I'll
strangle her--your sister."

"Yes, go and try it on with my sister," resumed Virginie sneeringly.
"Ah! it's my sister! That's very likely. My sister looks a trifle
different to you; but what's that to me? Can't one come and wash one's
clothes in peace now? Just dry up, d'ye hear, because I've had enough
of it!"

But it was she who returned to the attack, after giving five or six
strokes with her beetle, intoxicated by the insults she had been
giving utterance to, and worked up into a passion. She left off and
recommenced again, speaking in this way three times:

"Well, yes! it's my sister. There now, does that satisfy you? They
adore each other. You should just see them bill and coo! And he's left
you with your children. Those pretty kids with scabs all over their
faces! You got one of them from a gendarme, didn't you? And you let
three others die because you didn't want to pay excess baggage on your
journey. It's your Lantier who told us that. Ah! he's been telling
some fine things; he'd had enough of you!"

"You dirty jade! You dirty jade! You dirty jade!" yelled Gervaise,
beside herself, and again seized with a furious trembling. She turned
round, looking once more about the ground; and only observing the
little tub, she seized hold of it by the legs, and flung the whole of
the bluing at Virginie's face.

"The beast! She's spoilt my dress!" cried the latter, whose shoulder
was sopping wet and whose left hand was dripping blue. "Just wait, you
wretch!"

In her turn she seized a bucket, and emptied it over Gervaise. Then a
formidable battle began. They both ran along the rows of tubs, seized
hold of the pails that were full, and returned to dash the contents at
each other's heads. And each deluge was accompanied by a volley of
words. Gervaise herself answered now:

"There, you scum! You got it that time. It'll help to cool you."

"Ah! the carrion! That's for your filth. Wash yourself for once in
your life."

"Yes, yes, I'll wash the salt out of you, you cod!"

"Another one! Brush your teeth, fix yourself up for your post to-night
at the corner of the Rue Belhomme."

They ended by having to refill the buckets at the water taps,
continuing to insult each other the while. The initial bucketfuls were
so poorly aimed as to scarcely reach their targets, but they soon
began to splash each other in earnest. Virginie was the first to
receive a bucketful in the face. The water ran down, soaking her back
and front. She was still staggering when another caught her from the
side, hitting her left ear and drenching her chignon which then came
unwound into a limp, bedraggled string of hair.

Gervaise was hit first in the legs. One pail filled her shoes full of
water and splashed up to her thighs. Two more wet her even higher.
Soon both of them were soaked from top to bottom and it was impossible
to count the hits. Their clothes were plastered to their bodies and
they looked shrunken. Water was dripping everywhere as from umbrellas
in a rainstorm.

"They look jolly funny!" said the hoarse voice of one of the women.

Everyone in the wash-house was highly amused. A good space was left to
the combatants, as nobody cared to get splashed. Applause and jokes
circulated in the midst of the sluice-like noise of the buckets
emptied in rapid succession! On the floor the puddles were running one
into another, and the two women were wading in them up to their
ankles. Virginie, however, who had been meditating a treacherous move,
suddenly seized hold of a pail of lye, which one of her neighbors had
left there and threw it. The same cry arose from all. Everyone thought
Gervaise was scalded; but only her left foot had been slightly
touched. And, exasperated by the pain, she seized a bucket, without
troubling herself to fill it this time, and threw it with all her
might at the legs of Virginie, who fell to the ground. All the women
spoke together.

"She's broken one of her limbs!"

"Well, the other tried to cook her!"

"She's right, after all, the blonde one, if her man's been taken from
her!"

Madame Boche held up her arms to heaven, uttering all sorts of
exclamations. She had prudently retreated out of the way between two
tubs; and the children, Claude and Etienne, crying, choking,
terrified, clung to her dress with the continuous cry of "Mamma!
Mamma!" broken by their sobs. When she saw Virginie fall she hastened
forward, and tried to pull Gervaise away by her skirt, repeating the
while,

"Come now, go home! Be reasonable. On my word, it's quite upset me.
Never was such a butchery seen before."

But she had to draw back and seek refuge again between the two tubs,
with the children. Virginie had just flown at Gervaise's throat. She
squeezed her round the neck, trying to strangle her. The latter freed
herself with a violent jerk, and in her turn hung on to the other's
hair, as though she was trying to pull her head off. The battle was
silently resumed, without a cry, without an insult. They did not seize
each other round the body, they attacked each other's faces with open
hands and clawing fingers, pinching, scratching whatever they caught
hold of. The tall, dark girl's red ribbon and blue silk hair net were
torn off. The body of her dress, giving way at the neck, displayed a
large portion of her shoulder; whilst the blonde, half stripped, a
sleeve gone from her loose white jacket without her knowing how, had a
rent in her underlinen, which exposed to view the naked line of her
waist. Shreds of stuff flew in all directions. It was from Gervaise
that the first blood was drawn, three long scratches from the mouth to
the chin; and she sought to protect her eyes, shutting them at every
grab the other made, for fear of having them torn out. No blood showed
on Virginie as yet. Gervaise aimed at her ears, maddened at not being
able to reach them. At length she succeeded in seizing hold of one of
the earrings--an imitation pear in yellow glass--which she pulled out
and slit the ear, and the blood flowed.

"They're killing each other! Separate them, the vixens!" exclaimed
several voices.

The other women had drawn nearer. They formed themselves into two
camps. Some were cheering the combatants on as the others were
trembling and turning their heads away saying that it was making them
sick. A large fight nearly broke out between the two camps as the
women called each other names and brandished their fists
threateningly. Three loud slaps rang out.

Madame Boche, meanwhile, was trying to discover the wash-house boy.

"Charles! Charles! Wherever has he got to?"

And she found him in the front rank, looking on with his arms folded.
He was a big fellow, with an enormous neck. He was laughing and
enjoying the sight of the skin which the two women displayed. The
little blonde was as fat as a quail. It would be fun if her chemise
burst open.

"Why," murmured he, blinking his eye, "she's got a strawberry
birthmark under her arm."

"What! You're there!" cried Madame Boche, as she caught sight of him.
"Just come and help us separate them. You can easily separate them,
you can!"

"Oh, no! thank you, not if I know it," said he coolly. "To get my eye
scratched like I did the other day, I suppose! I'm not here for that
sort of thing; I have enough to do without that. Don't be afraid, a
little bleeding does 'em good; it'll soften 'em."

The concierge then talked of fetching the police; but the mistress of
the wash-house, the delicate young woman with the red, inflamed eyes,
would not allow her to do this. She kept saying:

"No, no, I won't; it'll compromise my establishment."

The struggle on the ground continued. All on a sudden, Virginie raised
herself up on her knees. She had just gotten hold of a beetle and held
it on high. She had a rattle in her throat and in an altered voice,
she exclaimed,

"Here's something that'll settle you! Get your dirty linen ready!"

Gervaise quickly thrust out her hand, and also seized a beetle, and
held it up like a club; and she too spoke in a choking voice,

"Ah! you want to wash. Let me get hold of your skin that I may beat it
into dish-cloths!"

For a moment they remained there, on their knees, menacing each other.
Their hair all over their faces, their breasts heaving, muddy,
swelling with rage, they watched one another, as they waited and took
breath. Gervaise gave the first blow. Her beetle glided off Virginie's
shoulder, and she at once threw herself on one side to avoid the
latter's beetle, which grazed her hip. Then, warming to their work
they struck at each other like washerwomen beating clothes, roughly,
and in time. Whenever there was a hit, the sound was deadened, so that
one might have thought it a blow in a tub full of water. The other
women around them no longer laughed. Several had gone off saying that
it quite upset them; those who remained stretched out their necks,
their eyes lighted up with a gleam of cruelty, admiring the pluck
displayed. Madame Boche had led Claude and Etienne away, and one could
hear at the other end of the building the sound of their sobs, mingled
with the sonorous shocks of the two beetles. But Gervaise suddenly
yelled. Virginie had caught her a whack with all her might on her bare
arm, just above the elbow. A large red mark appeared, the flesh at
once began to swell. Then she threw herself upon Virginie, and
everyone thought she was going to beat her to death.

"Enough! Enough!" was cried on all sides.

Her face bore such a terrible expression, that no one dared approach
her. Her strength seemed to have increased tenfold. She seized
Virginie round the waist, bent her down and pressed her face against
the flagstones. Raising her beetle she commenced beating as she used
to beat at Plassans, on the banks of the Viorne, when her mistress
washed the clothes of the garrison. The wood seemed to yield to the
flesh with a damp sound. At each whack a red weal marked the white
skin.

"Oh, oh!" exclaimed the boy Charles, opening his eyes to their full
extent and gloating over the sight.

Laughter again burst forth from the lookers-on, but soon the cry,
"Enough! Enough!" recommenced. Gervaise heard not, neither did she
tire. She examined her work, bent over it, anxious not to leave a dry
place. She wanted to see the whole of that skin beaten, covered with
contusions. And she talked, seized with a ferocious gaiety, recalling
a washerwoman's song,

  "Bang! Bang! Margot at her tub.
   Bang! Bang! Beating rub-a-dub.
   Bang! Bang! Tries to wash her heart.
   Bang! Bang! Black with grief to part."

And then she resumed,

  "That's for you, that's for your sister.
   That's for Lantier.
   When you next see them,
   You can give them that.
   Attention! I'm going to begin again.
   That's for Lantier, that's for your sister.
   That's for you.
   Bang! Bang! Margot at her tub.
   Bang! Bang! Beating rub-a-dub--"

The others were obliged to drag Virginie away from her. The tall, dark
girl, her face bathed in tears and purple with shame, picked up her
things and hastened away. She was vanquished. Gervaise slipped on the
sleeve of her jacket again, and fastened up her petticoats. Her arm
pained her a good deal, and she asked Madame Boche to place her bundle
of clothes on her shoulder. The concierge referred to the battle,
spoke of her emotions, and talked of examining the young woman's
person, just to see.

"You may, perhaps, have something broken. I heard a tremendous blow."

But Gervaise wanted to go home. She made no reply to the pitying
remarks and noisy ovation of the other women who surrounded her, erect
in their aprons. When she was laden she gained the door, where the
children awaited her.

"Two hours, that makes two sous," said the mistress of the wash-house,
already back at her post in the glazed closet.

Why two sous? She no longer understood that she was asked to pay for
her place there. Then she gave the two sous; and limping very much
beneath the weight of the wet clothes on her shoulder, the water
dripping from off her, her elbow black and blue, her cheek covered
with blood, she went off, dragging Claude and Etienne with her bare
arms, whilst they trotted along on either side of her, still
trembling, and their faces besmeared with their tears.

Once she was gone, the wash-house resumed its roaring tumult. The
washerwomen had eaten their bread and drunk their wine. Their faces
were lit up and their spirits enlivened by the fight between Gervaise
and Virginie.

The long lines of tubs were astir again with the fury of thrashing
arms, of craggy profiles, of marionettes with bent backs and slumping
shoulders that twisted and jerked violently as though on hinges.
Conversations went on from one end to the other in loud voices.
Laughter and coarse remarks crackled through the ceaseless gurgling of
the water. Faucets were sputtering, buckets spilling, rivulets flowing
underneath the rows of washboards. Throughout the huge shed rising
wisps of steam reflected a reddish tint, pierced here and there by
disks of sunlight, golden globes that had leaked through holes in the
awnings. The air was stiflingly warm and odorous with soap.

Suddenly the hall was filled with a white mist. The huge copper lid of
the lye-water kettle was rising mechanically along a notched shaft,
and from the gaping copper hollow within its wall of bricks came
whirling clouds of vapor. Meanwhile, at one side the drying machines
were hard at work; within their cast-iron cylinders bundles of laundry
were being wrung dry by the centrifugal force of the steam engine,
which was still puffing, steaming, jolting the wash-house with the
ceaseless labor of its iron limbs.

When Gervaise turned into the entry of the Hotel Boncoeur, her tears
again mastered her. It was a dark, narrow passage, with a gutter for
the dirty water running alongside the wall; and the stench which she
again encountered there caused her to think of the fortnight she had
passed in the place with Lantier--a fortnight of misery and quarrels,
the recollection of which was now a bitter regret. It seemed to bring
her abandonment home to her.

Upstairs the room was bare, in spite of the sunshine which entered
through the open window. That blaze of light, that kind of dancing
golden dust, exposed the lamentable condition of the blackened
ceiling, and of the walls half denuded of paper, all the more. The
only thing left hanging in the room was a woman's small neckerchief,
twisted like a piece of string. The children's bedstead, drawn into
the middle of the apartment, displayed the chest of drawers, the open
drawers of which exposed their emptiness. Lantier had washed himself
and had used up the last of the pomatum--two sous' worth of pomatum in
a playing card; the greasy water from his hands filled the basin. And
he had forgotten nothing. The corner which until then had been filled
by the trunk seemed to Gervaise an immense empty space. Even the little
mirror which hung on the window-fastening was gone. When she made this
discovery, she had a presentiment. She looked on the mantel-piece.
Lantier had taken away the pawn tickets; the pink bundle was no longer
there, between the two odd zinc candlesticks.

She hung her laundry over the back of a chair and just stood there,
gazing around at the furniture. She was so dulled and bewildered that
she could no longer cry. She had only one sou left. Then, hearing
Claude and Etienne laughing merrily by the window, their troubles
already forgotten, she went to them and put her arms about them,
losing herself for a moment in contemplation of that long gray avenue
where, that very morning, she had watched the awakening of the working
population, of the immense work-shop of Paris.

At this hour immense heat was rising from the pavement and from all
the furnaces in the factories, setting alight a reflecting oven over
the city and beyond the octroi wall. Out upon this very pavement, into
this furnace blast, she had been tossed, alone with her little ones.
As she glanced up and down the boulevard, she was seized with a dull
dread that her life would be fixed there forever, between a slaughter-
house and a hospital.



                             CHAPTER II.

Three weeks later, towards half-past eleven, one beautiful sunshiny
day, Gervaise and Coupeau, the zinc-worker, were each partaking of a
plum preserved in brandy, at "l'Assommoir" kept by Pere Colombe.
Coupeau, who had been smoking a cigarette on the pavement, had
prevailed on her to go inside as she returned from taking home a
customer's washing; and her big square laundress's basket was on the
floor beside her, behind the little zinc covered table.

Pere Colombe's l'Assommoir was at the corner of Rue des Poissonniers
and Boulevard de Rochechouart. The sign, in tall blue letters
stretching from one end to the other said: Distillery. Two dusty
oleanders planted in half casks stood beside the doorway. A long bar
with its tin measuring cups was on the left as you entered. The large
room was decorated with casks painted a gay yellow, bright with
varnish, and gleaming with copper taps and hoops.

On the shelves above the bar were liquor bottles, jars of fruit
preserved in brandy, and flasks of all shapes. They completely covered
the wall and were reflected in the mirror behind the bar as colorful
spots of apple green, pale gold, and soft brown. The main feature of
the establishment, however, was the distilling apparatus. It was at
the rear, behind an oak railing in a glassed-in area. The customers
could watch its functioning, long-necked still-pots, copper worms
disappearing underground, a devil's kitchen alluring to drink-sodden
work men in search of pleasant dreams.

L'Assommoir was nearly empty at the lunch hour. Pere Colombe, a heavy
man of forty, was serving a ten year old girl who had asked him to
place four sous' worth of brandy into her cup. A shaft of sunlight
came through the entrance to warm the floor which was always damp from
the smokers' spitting. From everything, the casks, the bar, the entire
room, a liquorish odor arose, an alcoholic aroma which seemed to
thicken and befuddle the dust motes dancing in the sunlight.

Coupeau was making another cigarette. He was very neat, in a short
blue linen blouse and cap, and was laughing and showing his white
teeth. With a projecting under jaw and a slightly snub nose, he had
handsome chestnut eyes, and the face of a jolly dog and a thorough
good fellow. His coarse curly hair stood erect. His skin still
preserved the softness of his twenty-six years. Opposite to him,
Gervaise, in a thin black woolen dress, and bareheaded, was finishing
her plum which she held by the stalk between the tips of her fingers.
They were close to the street, at the first of the four tables placed
alongside the barrels facing the bar.

When the zinc-worker had lit his cigarette, he placed his elbows on
the table, thrust his face forward, and for an instant looked without
speaking at the young woman, whose pretty fair face had that day the
milky transparency of china. Then, alluding to a matter known to
themselves alone, and already discussed between them, he simply asked
in a low voice:

"So it's to be 'no'? you say 'no'?"

"Oh! most decidedly 'no' Monsieur Coupeau," quietly replied Gervaise
with a smile. "I hope you're not going to talk to me about that here.
You know you promised me you would be reasonable. Had I known, I
wouldn't have let you treat me."

Coupeau kept silence, looking at her intently with a boldness. She sat
still, at ease and friendly. At the end of a brief silence she added:

"You can't really mean it. I'm an old woman; I've a big boy eight
years old. Whatever could we two do together?"

"Why!" murmured Coupeau, blinking his eyes, "what the others do, of
course, get married!"

She made a gesture of feeling annoyed. "Oh! do you think it's always
pleasant? One can very well see you've never seen much of living. No,
Monsieur Coupeau, I must think of serious things. Burdening oneself
never leads to anything, you know! I've two mouths at home which are
never tired of swallowing, I can tell you! How do you suppose I can
bring up my little ones, if I only sit here talking indolently? And
listen, besides that, my misfortune has been a famous lesson to me.
You know I don't care a bit about men now. They won't catch me again
for a long while."

She spoke with such cool objectivity that it was clear she had
resolved this in her mind, turning it about thoroughly.

Coupeau was deeply moved and kept repeating: "I feel so sorry for you.
It causes me a great deal of pain."

"Yes, I know that," resumed she, "and I am sorry, Monsieur Coupeau.
But you mustn't take it to heart. If I had any idea of enjoying
myself, /mon Dieu!/, I would certainly rather be with you than anyone
else. You're a good boy and gentle. Only, where's the use, as I've no
inclination to wed? I've been for the last fortnight, now, at Madame
Fauconnier's. The children go to school. I've work, I'm contented. So
the best is to remain as we are, isn't it?"

And she stooped down to take her basket.

"You're making me talk; they must be expecting me at the shop. You'll
easily find someone else prettier than I, Monsieur Coupeau, and who
won't have two boys to drag about with her."

He looked at the clock inserted in the frame-work of the mirror, and
made her sit down again, exclaiming:

"Don't be in such a hurry! It's only eleven thirty-five. I've still
twenty-five minutes. You don't have to be afraid that I shall do
anything foolish; there's the table between us. So you detest me so
much that you won't stay and have a little chat with me."

She put her basket down again, so as not to disoblige him; and they
conversed like good friends. She had eaten her lunch before going out
with the laundry. He had gulped down his soup and beef hurriedly to be
able to wait for her. All the while she chatted amiably, Gervaise kept
looking out the window at the activity on the street. It was now
unusually crowded with the lunch time rush.

Everywhere were hurried steps, swinging arms, and pushing elbows. Some
late comers, hungry and angry at being kept extra long at the job,
rushed across the street into the bakery. They emerged with a loaf of
bread and went three doors farther to the Two-Headed Calf to gobble
down a six-sou meat dish.

Next door to the bakery was a grocer who sold fried potatoes and
mussels cooked with parsley. A procession of girls went in to get hot
potatoes wrapped in paper and cups of steaming mussels. Other pretty
girls bought bunches of radishes. By leaning a bit, Gervaise could see
into the sausage shop from which children issued, holding a fried
chop, a sausage or a piece of hot blood pudding wrapped in greasy
paper. The street was always slick with black mud, even in clear
weather. A few laborers had already finished their lunch and were
strolling aimlessly about, their open hands slapping their thighs,
heavy from eating, slow and peaceful amid the hurrying crowd. A group
formed in front of the door of l'Assommoir.

"Say, Bibi-the-Smoker," demanded a hoarse voice, "aren't you going to
buy us a round of /vitriol/?"

Five laborers came in and stood by the bar.

"Ah! Here's that thief, Pere Colombe!" the voice continued. "We want
the real old stuff, you know. And full sized glasses, too."

Pere Colombe served them as three more laborers entered. More blue
smocks gathered on the street corner and some pushed their way into
the establishment.

"You're foolish! You only think of the present," Gervaise was saying
to Coupeau. "Sure, I loved him, but after the disgusting way in which
he left me--"

They were talking of Lantier. Gervaise had not seen him again; she
thought he was living with Virginie's sister at La Glaciere, in the
house of that friend who was going to start a hat factory. She had no
thought of running after him. She had been so distressed at first that
she had thought of drowning herself in the river. But now that she had
thought about it, everything seemed to be for the best. Lantier went
through money so fast, that she probably never could have raised her
children properly. Oh, she'd let him see his children, all right, if
he bothered to come round. But as far as she was concerned, she didn't
want him to touch her, not even with his finger tips.

She told all this to Coupeau just as if her plan of life was well
settled. Meanwhile, Coupeau never forgot his desire to possess her. He
made a jest of everything she said, turning it into ribaldry and
asking some very direct questions about Lantier. But he proceeded so
gaily and which such a smile that she never thought of being offended.

"So, you're the one who beat him," said he at length. "Oh! you're not
kind. You just go around whipping people."

She interrupted him with a hearty laugh. It was true, though, she had
whipped Virginie's tall carcass. She would have delighted in
strangling someone on that day. She laughed louder than ever when
Coupeau told her that Virginie, ashamed at having shown so much
cowardice, had left the neighborhood. Her face, however, preserved an
expression of childish gentleness as she put out her plump hands,
insisting she wouldn't even harm a fly.

She began to tell Coupeau about her childhood at Plassans. She had
never cared overmuch for men; they had always bored her. She was
fourteen when she got involved with Lantier. She had thought it was
nice because he said he was her husband and she had enjoyed playing a
housewife. She was too soft-hearted and too weak. She always got
passionately fond of people who caused her trouble later. When she
loved a man, she wasn't thinking of having fun in the present; she was
dreaming about being happy and living together forever.

And as Coupeau, with a chuckle, spoke of her two children, saying they
hadn't come from under a bolster, she slapped his fingers; she added
that she was, no doubt made on the model of other women; women thought
of their home, slaved to keep the place clean and tidy, and went to
bed too tired at night not to go to sleep at once. Besides, she
resembled her mother, a stout laboring woman who died at her work and
who had served as beast of burden to old Macquart for more than twenty
years. Her mother's shoulders had been heavy enough to smash through
doors, but that didn't prevent her from being soft-hearted and madly
attracted to people. And if she limped a little, she no doubt owed
that to the poor woman, whom old Macquart used to belabor with blows.
Her mother had told her about the times when Macquart came home drunk
and brutally bruised her. She had probably been born with her lame leg
as a result of one of those times.

"Oh! it's scarcely anything, it's hardly perceptible," said Coupeau
gallantly.

She shook her head; she knew well enough that it could be seen; at
forty she would look broken in two. Then she added gently, with a
slight laugh: "It's a funny fancy of yours to fall in love with a
cripple."

With his elbows still on the table, he thrust his face closer to hers
and began complimenting her in rather dubious language as though to
intoxicate her with his words. But she kept shaking her head "no," and
didn't allow herself to be tempted although she was flattered by the
tone of his voice. While listening, she kept looking out the window,
seeming to be fascinated by the interesting crowd of people passing.

The shops were now almost empty. The grocer removed his last panful of
fried potatoes from the stove. The sausage man arranged the dishes
scattered on his counter. Great bearded workmen were as playful as
young boys, clumping along in their hobnailed boots. Other workmen
were smoking, staring up into the sky and blinking their eyes. Factory
bells began to ring in the distance, but the workers, in no hurry,
relit their pipes. Later, after being tempted by one wineshop after
another, they finally decided to return to their jobs, but were still
dragging their feet.

Gervaise amused herself by watching three workmen, a tall fellow and
two short ones who turned to look back every few yards; they ended by
descending the street, and came straight to Pere Colombe's
l'Assommoir.

"Ah, well," murmured she, "there're three fellows who don't seem
inclined for work!"

"Why!" said Coupeau, "I know the tall one, it's My-Boots, a comrade of
mine."

Pere Colombe's l'Assommoir was now full. You had to shout to be heard.
Fists often pounded on the bar, causing the glasses to clink. Everyone
was standing, hands crossed over belly or held behind back. The
drinking groups crowded close to one another. Some groups, by the
casks, had to wait a quarter of an hour before being able to order
their drinks of Pere Colombe.

"Hallo! It's that aristocrat, Young Cassis!" cried My-Boots, bringing
his hand down roughly on Coupeau's shoulder. A fine gentleman, who
smokes paper, and wears shirts! So we want to do the grand with our
sweetheart; we stand her little treats!"

"Shut up! Don't bother me!" replied Coupeau, greatly annoyed.

But the other added, with a chuckle, "Right you are! We know what's
what, my boy. Muffs are muffs, that's all!"

He turned his back after leering terribly as he looked at Gervaise.
The latter drew back, feeling rather frightened. The smoke from the
pipes, the strong odor of all those men, ascended in the air, already
foul with the fumes of alcohol; and she felt a choking sensation in
her throat, and coughed slightly.

"Oh, what a horrible thing it is to drink!" said she in a low voice.

And she related that formerly at Plassans she used to drink anisette
with her mother. But on one occasion it nearly killed her, and that
disgusted her with it; now, she could never touch any liqueurs.

"You see," added she, pointing to her glass, "I've eaten my plum; only
I must leave the juice, because it would make me ill."

For himself, Coupeau couldn't understand how anyone could drink glass
after glass of cheap brandy. A brandied plum occasionally could not
hurt, but as for cheap brandy, absinthe and the other strong stuff,
no, not for him, no matter how much his comrades teased him about it.
He stayed out on the sidewalk when his friends went into low
establishments. Coupeau's father had smashed his head open one day
when he fell from the eaves of No. 25 on Rue Coquenard. He was drunk.
This memory keep Coupeau's entire family from the drink. Every time
Coupeau passed that spot, he thought he would rather lick up water
from the gutter than accept a free drink in a bar. He would always
say: "In our trade, you have to have steady legs."

Gervaise had taken up her basket again. She did not rise from her seat
however, but held the basket on her knees, with a vacant look in her
eyes and lost in thought, as though the young workman's words had
awakened within her far-off thoughts of existence. And she said again,
slowly, and without any apparent change of manner:

"/Mon Dieu/! I'm not ambitious; I don't ask for much. My desire is to
work in peace, always to have bread to eat and a decent place to sleep
in, you know; with a bed, a table, and two chairs, nothing more. If I
can, I'd like to raise my children to be good citizens. Also, I'd like
not to be beaten up, if I ever again live with a man. It's not my idea
of amusement." She pondered, thinking if there was anything else she
wanted, but there wasn't anything of importance. Then, after a moment
she went on, "Yes, when one reaches the end, one might wish to die in
one's bed. For myself, having trudged through life, I should like to
die in my bed, in my own home."

And she rose from her seat. Coupeau, who cordially approved her
wishes, was already standing up, anxious about the time. But they did
not leave yet. Gervaise was curious enough to go to the far end of the
room for a look at the big still behind the oak railing. It was
chugging away in the little glassed-in courtyard. Coupeau explained
its workings to her, pointing at the different parts of the machinery,
showing her the trickling of the small stream of limpid alcohol. Not a
single gay puff of steam was coming forth from the endless coils. The
breathing could barely be heard. It sounded muffled as if from
underground. It was like a sombre worker, performing dark deeds in the
bright daylight, strong but silent.

My-Boots, accompanied by his two comrades, came to lean on the railing
until they could get a place at the bar. He laughed, looking at the
machine. /Tonnerre de Dieu/, that's clever. There's enough stuff in
its big belly to last for weeks. He wouldn't mind if they just fixed
the end of the tube in his mouth, so he could feel the fiery spirits
flowing down to his heels like a river. It would be better than the
tiny sips doled out by Pere Colombe! His two comrades laughed with
him, saying that My-Boots was quite a guy after all.

The huge still continued to trickle forth its alcoholic sweat.
Eventually it would invade the bar, flow out along the outer
Boulevards, and inundate the immense expanse of Paris.

Gervaise stepped back, shivering. She tried to smile as she said:

"It's foolish, but that still and the liquor gives me the creeps."

Then, returning to the idea she nursed of a perfect happiness, she
resumed: "Now, ain't I right? It's much the nicest isn't it--to have
plenty of work, bread to eat, a home of one's own, and to be able to
bring up one's children and to die in one's bed?"

"And never to be beaten," added Coupeau gaily. "But I would never beat
you, if you would only try me, Madame Gervaise. You've no cause for
fear. I don't drink and then I love you too much. Come, shall it be
marriage? I'll get you divorced and make you my wife."

He was speaking low, whispering at the back of her neck while she made
her way through the crowd of men with her basket held before her. She
kept shaking her head "no." Yet she turned around to smile at him,
apparently happy to know that he never drank. Yes, certainly, she
would say "yes" to him, except she had already sworn to herself never
to start up with another man. Eventually they reached the door and
went out.

When they left, l'Assommoir was packed to the door, spilling its
hubbub of rough voices and its heavy smell of vitriol into the street.
My-Boots could be heard railing at Pere Colombe, calling him a
scoundrel and accusing him of only half filling his glass. He didn't
have to come in here. He'd never come back. He suggested to his
comrades a place near the Barriere Saint-Denis where you drank good
stuff straight.

"Ah," sighed Gervaise when they reached the sidewalk. "You can breathe
out here. Good-bye, Monsieur Coupeau, and thank you. I must hurry
now."

He seized her hand as she started along the boulevard, insisting,
"Take a walk with me along Rue de la Goutte-d'Or. It's not much
farther for you. I've got to see my sister before going back to work.
We'll keep each other company."

In the end, Gervaise agreed and they walked beside each other along
the Rue des Poissonniers, although she did not take his arm. He told
her about his family. His mother, an old vest-maker, now had to do
housekeeping because her eyesight was poor. Her birthday was the third
of last month and she was sixty-two. He was the youngest. One of his
sisters, a widow of thirty-six, worked in a flower shop and lived in
the Batignolles section, on Rue des Moines. The other sister was
thirty years old now. She had married a deadpan chainmaker named
Lorilleux. That's where he was going now. They lived in a big tenement
on the left side. He ate with them in the evenings; it saved a bit for
all of them. But he had been invited out this evening and he was going
to tell her not to expect him.

Gervaise, who was listening to him, suddenly interrupted him to ask,
with a smile: "So you're called 'Young Cassis,' Monsieur Coupeau?"

"Oh!" replied he, "it's a nickname my mates have given me because I
generally drink 'cassis' when they force me to accompany them to the
wineshop. It's no worse to be called Young Cassis than My-Boots, is
it?"

"Of course not. Young Cassis isn't an ugly name," observed the young
woman.

And she questioned him about his work. He was still working there,
behind the octroi wall at the new hospital. Oh! there was no want of
work, he would not be finished there for a year at least. There were
yards and yards of gutters!

"You know," said he, "I can see the Hotel Boncoeur when I'm up there.
Yesterday you were at the window, and I waved my arms, but you didn't
notice me."

They had already gone about a hundred paces along the Rue de la
Goutte-d'Or, when he stood still and raising his eyes, said:

"That's the house. I was born farther on, at No. 22. But this house
is, all the same, a fine block of masonry! It's as big as a barrack
inside!"

Gervaise looked up, examining the facade. On the street side, the
tenement had five stories, each with fifteen windows, whose black
shutters with their broken slats gave an air of desolation to the wide
expanse of wall. Four shops occupied the ground floor. To the right of
the entrance, a large, greasy hash house, and to the left, a coal
dealer, a notions seller, and an umbrella merchant. The building
appeared even larger than it was because it had on each side a small,
low building which seemed to lean against it for support. This
immense, squared-off building was outlined against the sky. Its
unplastered side walls were as bare as prison walls, except for rows
of roughly jutting stones which suggested jaws full of decayed teeth
yawning vacantly.

Gervaise was gazing at the entrance with interest. The high, arched
doorway rose to the second floor and opened onto a deep porch, at the
end of which could be seen the pale daylight of a courtyard. This
entranceway was paved like the street, and down the center flowed a
streamlet of pink-stained water.

"Come in," said Coupeau, "no one will eat you."

Gervaise wanted to wait for him in the street. However, she could not
resist going through the porch as far as the concierge's room on the
right. And there, on the threshold, she raised her eyes. Inside, the
building was six stories high, with four identical plain walls
enclosing the broad central court. The drab walls were corroded by
yellowish spots and streaked by drippings from the roof gutters. The
walls went straight up to the eaves with no molding or ornament except
the angles on the drain pipes at each floor. Here the sink drains
added their stains. The glass window panes resembled murky water.
Mattresses of checkered blue ticking were hanging out of several
windows to air. Clothes lines stretched from other windows with family
washing hanging to dry. On a third floor line was a baby's diaper,
still implanted with filth. This crowded tenement was bursting at the
seams, spilling out poverty and misery through every crevice.

Each of the four walls had, at ground level, a narrow entrance,
plastered without a trace of woodwork. This opened into a vestibule
containing a dirt-encrusted staircase which spiraled upward. They were
each labeled with one of the first four letters of the alphabet
painted on the wall.

Several large work-shops with weather-blackened skylights were
scattered about the court. Near the concierge's room was the dyeing
establishment responsible for the pink streamlet. Puddles of water
infested the courtyard, along with wood shavings and coal cinders.
Grass and weeds grew between the paving stones. The unforgiving
sunlight seemed to cut the court into two parts. On the shady side was
a dripping water tap with three small hens scratching for worms with
their filth-smeared claws.

Gervaise slowly gazed about, lowering her glance from the sixth floor
to the paving stones, then raising it again, surprised at the
vastness, feeling as it were in the midst of a living organ, in the
very heart of a city, and interested in the house, as though it were a
giant before her.

"Is madame seeking for any one?" called out the inquisitive concierge,
emerging from her room.

The young woman explained that she was waiting for a friend. She
returned to the street; then as Coupeau did not come, she went back to
the courtyard seized with the desire to take another look. She did not
think the house ugly. Amongst the rags hanging from the windows she
discovered various cheerful touches--a wall-flower blooming in a pot,
a cage of chirruping canaries, shaving-glasses shining like stars in
the depth of the shadow. A carpenter was singing in his work-shop,
accompanied by the whining of his plane. The blacksmith's hammers were
ringing rhythmically.

In contrast to the apparent wretched poverty, at nearly every open
window appeared the begrimed faces of laughing children. Women with
peaceful faces could be seen bent over their sewing. The rooms were
empty of men who had gone back to work after lunch. The whole tenement
was tranquil except for the sounds from the work-shops below which
served as a sort of lullaby that went on, unceasingly, always the
same.

The only thing she did not like was the courtyard's dampness. She
would want rooms at the rear, on the sunny side. Gervaise took a few
more steps into the courtyard, inhaling the characteristic odor of the
slums, comprised of dust and rotten garbage. But the sharp odor of the
waste water from the dye shop was strong, and Gervaise thought it
smelled better here than at the Hotel Boncoeur. She chose a window for
herself, the one at the far left with a small window box planted with
scarlet runners.

"I'm afraid I've kept you waiting rather a long time," said Coupeau,
whom she suddenly heard close beside her. "They always make an awful
fuss whenever I don't dine with them, and it was worse than ever
to-day as my sister had bought some veal."

And as Gervaise had slightly started with surprise, he continued
glancing around in his turn:

"You were looking at the house. It's always all let from the top to
the bottom. There are three hundred lodgers, I think. If I had any
furniture, I would have secured a small room. One would be comfortable
here, don't you think so?"

"Yes, one would be comfortable," murmured Gervaise. "In our street at
Plassans there weren't near so many people. Look, that's pretty--that
window up on the fifth floor, with the scarlet runners."

The zinc-worker's obstinate desire made him ask her once more whether
she would or she wouldn't. They could rent a place here as soon as
they found a bed. She hurried out the arched entranceway, asking him
not to start that subject again. There was as much chance of this
building collapsing as there was of her sleeping under the same
blanket with him. Still, when Coupeau left her in front of Madame
Fauconnier's shop, he was allowed to hold her hand for a moment.

For a month the young woman and the zinc-worker were the best of
friends. He admired her courage, when he beheld her half killing
herself with work, keeping her children tidy and clean, and yet
finding time at night to do a little sewing. Often other women were
hopelessly messy, forever nibbling or gadding about, but she wasn't
like them at all. She was much too serious. Then she would laugh, and
modestly defend herself. It was her misfortune that she had not always
been good, having been with a man when only fourteen. Then too, she
had often helped her mother empty a bottle of anisette. But she had
learned a few things from experience. He was wrong to think of her as
strong-willed; her will power was very weak. She had always let
herself be pushed into things because she didn't want to hurt
someone's feelings. Her one hope now was to live among decent people,
for living among bad people was like being hit over the head. It
cracks your skull. Whenever she thought of the future, she shivered.
Everything she had seen in life so far, especially when a child, had
given her lessons to remember.

Coupeau, however, chaffed her about her gloomy thoughts, and brought
back all her courage by trying to pinch her hips. She pushed him away
from her, and slapped his hands, whilst he called out laughingly that,
for a weak woman, she was not a very easy capture. He, who always
joked about everything did not trouble himself regarding the future.
One day followed another, that was all. There would always be
somewhere to sleep and a bite to eat. The neighborhood seemed decent
enough to him, except for a gang of drunkards that ought to be cleaned
out of the gutters.

Coupeau was not a bad sort of fellow. He sometimes had really sensible
things to say. He was something of a dandy with his Parisian working
man's gift for banter, a regular gift of gab, and besides, he was
attractive.

They had ended by rendering each other all sorts of services at the
Hotel Boncoeur. Coupeau fetched her milk, ran her errands, carried her
bundles of clothes; often of an evening, as he got home first from
work, he took the children for a walk on the exterior Boulevard.
Gervaise, in return for his polite attentions, would go up into the
narrow room at the top of the house where he slept, and see to his
clothes, sewing buttons on his blue linen trousers, and mending his
linen jackets. A great familiarity existed between them. She was never
bored when he was around. The gay songs he sang amused her, and so did
his continuous banter of jokes and jibes characteristic of the Paris
streets, this being still new to her.

On Coupeau's side, this continual familiarity inflamed him more and
more until it began to seriously bother him. He began to feel tense
and uneasy. He continued with his foolish talk, never failing to ask
her, "When will it be?" She understood what he meant and teased him.
He would then come to visit her carrying his bedroom slippers, as if
he were moving in. She joked about it and continued calmly without
blushing at the allusions with which he was always surrounding her.
She stood for anything from him as long as he didn't get rough. She
only got angry once when he pulled a strand of her hair while trying
to force a kiss from her.

Towards the end of June, Coupeau lost his liveliness. He became most
peculiar. Gervaise, feeling uneasy at some of his glances, barricaded
herself in at night. Then, after having sulked ever since the Sunday,
he suddenly came on the Tuesday night about eleven o'clock and knocked
at her room. She would not open to him; but his voice was so gentle
and so trembling that she ended by removing the chest of drawers she
had pushed against the door. When he entered, she thought he was ill;
he looked so pale, his eyes were so red, and the veins on his face
were all swollen. And he stood there, stuttering and shaking his head.
No, no, he was not ill. He had been crying for two hours upstairs in
his room; he wept like a child, biting his pillow so as not to be
heard by the neighbors. For three nights past he had been unable to
sleep. It could not go on like that.

"Listen, Madame Gervaise," said he, with a swelling in his throat and
on the point of bursting out crying again; "we must end this, mustn't
we? We'll go and get married. It's what I want. I've quite made up my
mind."

Gervaise showed great surprise. She was very grave.

"Oh! Monsieur Coupeau," murmured she, "whatever are you thinking of?
You know I've never asked you for that. I didn't care about it--that
was all. Oh, no, no! it's serious now; think of what you're saying, I
beg of you."

But he continued to shake his head with an air of unalterable
resolution. He had already thought it all over. He had come down
because he wanted to have a good night. She wasn't going to send him
back to weep again he supposed! As soon as she said "yes," he would no
longer bother her, and she could go quietly to bed. He only wanted to
hear her say "yes." They could talk it over on the morrow.

"But I certainly can't say 'yes' just like that," resumed Gervaise. "I
don't want you to be able to accuse me later on of having incited you
to do a foolish thing. You shouldn't be so insistent, Monsieur
Coupeau. You can't really be sure that you're in love with me. If you
didn't see me for a week, it might fade away. Sometimes men get
married and then there's day after day, stretching out into an entire
lifetime, and they get pretty well bored by it all. Sit down there;
I'm willing to talk it over at once."

Then until one in the morning, in the dark room and by the faint light
of a smoky tallow candle which they forgot to snuff, they talked of
their marriage, lowering their voices so as not to wake the two
children, Claude and Etienne, who were sleeping, both heads on the
same pillow. Gervaise kept pointing out the children to Coupeau, what
a funny kind of dowry they were. She really shouldn't burden him with
them. Besides, what would the neighbors say? She'd feel ashamed for
him because everyone knew about the story of her life and her lover.
They wouldn't think it decent if they saw them getting married barely
two months later.

Coupeau replied by shrugging his shoulders. He didn't care about the
neighbors! He never bothered about their affairs. So, there was
Lantier before him, well, so what? What's so bad about that? She
hadn't been constantly bringing men upstairs, as some women did, even
rich ladies! The children would grow up, they'd raise them right.
Never had he known before such a woman, such sound character, so good-
hearted. Anyway, she could have been anything, a streetwalker, ugly,
lazy and good-for-nothing, with a whole gang of dirty kids, and so
what? He wanted her.

"Yes, I want you," he repeated, bringing his hand down on his knee
with a continuos hammering. "You understand, I want you. There's
nothing to be said to that, is there?"

Little by little, Gervaise gave way. Her emotions began to take
control when faced with his encompassing desire. Still, with her hands
in her lap and her face suffused with a soft sweetness, she hesitantly
offered objections. From outside, through the half-open window, a
lovely June night breathed in puffs of sultry air, disturbing the
candle with its long wick gleaming red like a glowing coal. In the
deep silence of the sleeping neighborhood the only sound was the
infantile weeping of a drunkard lying in the middle of the street. Far
away, in the back room of some restaurant, a violin was playing a
dance tune for some late party.

Coupeau was silent. Then, knowing she had no more arguments, he
smiled, took hold of her hands and pulled her toward him. She was in
one of those moments of weakness she so greatly mistrusted, persuaded
at last, too emotionally stirred to refuse anything or to hurt
anyone's feelings. Coupeau didn't realize that she was giving way. He
held her wrists so tightly as to almost crush them. Together they
breathed a long sigh that to both of them meant a partial satisfaction
of their desire.

"You'll say 'yes,' won't you," asked he.

"How you worry me!" she murmured. "You wish it? Well then, 'yes.' Ah!
we're perhaps doing a very foolish thing."

He jumped up, and, seizing her round the waist, kissed her roughly on
the face, at random. Then, as this caress caused a noise, he became
anxious, and went softly and looked at Claude and Etienne.

"Hush, we must be careful," said he in a whisper, "and not wake the
children. Good-bye till to-morrow."

And he went back to his room. Gervaise, all in a tremble, remained
seated on the edge of her bed, without thinking of undressing herself
for nearly an hour. She was touched; she felt that Coupeau was very
honorable; for at one moment she had really thought it was all over,
and that he would forget her. The drunkard below, under the window,
was now hoarsely uttering the plaintive cry of some lost animal. The
violin in the distance had left off its saucy tune and was now silent.

During the following days Coupeau sought to get Gervaise to call some
evening on his sister in the Rue de la Goutte-d'Or; but the young
woman, who was very timid, showed a great dread of this visit to the
Lorilleux. She knew that Coupeau had a lingering fear of that
household, even though he certainly wasn't dependent on his sister,
who wasn't even the oldest of the family. Mamma Coupeau would
certainly give her consent at once, as she never refused her only son
anything. The thing was that the Lorilleuxs were supposed to be
earning ten francs a day or more and that gave them a certain
authority. Coupeau would never dare to get married unless his wife was
acceptable to them.

"I have spoken to them of you, they know our plans," explained he to
Gervaise. "Come now! What a child you are! Let's call on them this
evening. I've warned you, haven't I? You'll find my sister rather
stiff. Lorilleux, too, isn't always very amiable. In reality they are
greatly annoyed, because if I marry, I shall no longer take my meals
with them, and it'll be an economy the less. But that doesn't matter,
they won't turn you out. Do this for me, it's absolutely necessary."

These words only frightened Gervaise the more. One Saturday evening,
however, she gave in. Coupeau came for her at half-past eight. She had
dressed herself in a black dress, a crape shawl with yellow palms, and
a white cap trimmed with a little cheap lace. During the six weeks she
had been working, she had saved the seven francs for the shawl, and
the two and a half francs for the cap; the dress was an old one
cleaned and made up afresh.

"They're expecting you," said Coupeau to her, as they went round by
the Rue des Poissonniers. "Oh! they're beginning to get used to the
idea of my being married. They seem nice indeed, to-night. And you
know if you've never seen gold chains made, it'll amuse you to watch
them. They just happen to have a pressing order for Monday."

"They've got gold in their room?" asked Gervaise.

"I should think so; there's some on the walls, on the floor, in fact
everywhere."

They had passed the arched doorway and crossed the courtyard. The
Lorilleuxs lived on the sixth floor, staircase B. Coupeau laughingly
told her to hold the hand-rail tight and not to leave go of it. She
looked up, and blinked her eyes, as she perceived the tall hollow
tower of the staircase, lighted by three gas jets, one on every second
landing; the last one, right up at the top looked like a star
twinkling in a black sky, whilst the other two cast long flashes of
light, of fantastic shapes, among the interminable windings of the
stairs.

"By Jove!" said the zinc-worker as he reached the first floor,
smiling, "there's a strong smell of onion soup. Someone's having
onion soup, I'm sure."

Staircase B, with its gray, dirty steps and hand-rail, its scratched
walls and chipped plaster, was full of strong kitchen odors. Long
corridors, echoing with noise, led away from each landing. Doors,
painted yellow, gaped open, smeared black around the latch from dirty
hands. A sink on each landing gave forth a fetid humidity, adding its
stench to the sharp flavor of the cooking of onions. From the
basement, all the way to the sixth floor, you could hear dishes
clattering, saucepans being rinsed, pots being scraped and scoured.

On the first floor Gervaise saw a half-opened door with the word
"Designer" written on it in large letters. Inside were two men sitting
by a table, the dishes cleared away from its oilcloth cover, arguing
furiously amid a cloud of pipe smoke. The second and third floors were
quieter, and through cracks in the woodwork only such sounds filtered
as the rhythm of a cradle rocking, the stifled crying of a child, a
woman's voice sounding like the dull murmur of running water with no
words distinct. Gervaise read the various signs on the doors giving
the names of the occupants: "Madame Gaudron, wool-carder" and
"Monsieur Madinier, cardboard boxes." There was a fight in progress on
the fourth floor: a stomping of feet that shook the floor, furniture
banged around, a racket of curses and blows; but this did not bother
the neighbors opposite, who were playing cards with their door opened
wide to admit more air.

When Gervaise reached the fifth floor, she had to stop to take a
breath; she was not used to going up so high; that wall for ever
turning, the glimpses she had of the lodgings following each other,
made her head ache. Anyway, there was a family almost blocking the
landing: the father washing the dishes over a small earthenware stove
near the sink and the mother sitting with her back to the stair-rail
and cleaning the baby before putting it to bed.

Coupeau kept urging Gervaise along, and they finally reached the sixth
floor. He encouraged her with a smile; they had arrived! She had been
hearing a voice all the way up from the bottom and she was gazing
upward, wondering where it could be coming from, a voice so clear and
piercing that it had dominated all the other sounds. It came from a
little old woman in an attic room who sang while putting dresses on
cheap dolls. When a tall girl came by with a pail of water and entered
a nearby apartment, Gervaise saw a tumbled bed on which a man was
sprawled, his eyes fixed on the ceiling. As the door closed behind
her, Gervaise saw the hand-written card: "Mademoiselle Clemence,
ironing."

Now that she had finally made it to the top, her legs weary and her
breath short, Gervaise leaned over the railing to look down. Now it
was the gaslight on the first floor which seemed a distant star at the
bottom of a narrow well six stories deep. All the odors and all the
murmurings of the immense variety of life within the tenement came up
to her in one stifling breath that flushed her face as she hazarded a
worried glance down into the gulf below.

"We're not there yet," said Coupeau. "Oh! It's quite a journey!"

He had gone down a long corridor on the left. He turned twice, the
first time also to the left, the second time to the right. The
corridor still continued branching off, narrowing between walls full
of crevices, with plaster peeling off, and lighted at distant
intervals by a slender gas-jet; and the doors all alike, succeeded
each other the same as the doors of a prison or a convent, and nearly
all open, continued to display homes of misery and work, which the hot
June evening filled with a reddish mist. At length they reached a
small passage in complete darkness.

"We're here," resumed the zinc-worker. "Be careful, keep to the wall;
there are three steps."

And Gervaise carefully took another ten steps in the obscurity. She
stumbled and then counted the three steps. But at the end of the
passage Coupeau had opened a door, without knocking. A brilliant light
spread over the tiled floor. They entered.

It was a narrow apartment, and seemed as if it were the continuation
of the corridor. A faded woolen curtain, raised up just then by a
string, divided the place in two. The first part contained a bedstead
pushed beneath an angle of the attic ceiling, a cast-iron stove still
warm from the cooking of the dinner, two chairs, a table and a
wardrobe, the cornice of which had had to be sawn off to make it fit
in between the door and the bedstead. The second part was fitted up as
a work-shop; at the end, a narrow forge with its bellows; to the
right, a vise fixed to the wall beneath some shelves on which pieces
of old iron lay scattered; to the left near the window, a small
workman's bench, encumbered with greasy and very dirty pliers, shears
and microscopical saws, all very dirty and grimy.

"It's us!" cried Coupeau advancing as far as the woolen curtain.

But no one answered at first. Gervaise, deeply affected, moved
especially by the thought that she was about to enter a place full of
gold, stood behind the zinc-worker, stammering and venturing upon nods
of her head by way of bowing. The brilliant light, a lamp burning on
the bench, a brazier full of coals flaring in the forge, increased her
confusion still more. She ended however, by distinguishing Madame
Lorilleux--little, red-haired and tolerably strong, pulling with all
the strength of her short arms, and with the assistance of a big pair
of pincers, a thread of black metal which she passed through the holes
of a draw-plate fixed to the vise. Seated in front of the bench,
Lorilleux, quite as small of stature, but more slender in the
shoulders, worked with the tips of his pliers, with the vivacity of a
monkey, at a labor so minute, that it was impossible to follow it
between his scraggy fingers. It was the husband who first raised his
head--a head with scanty locks, the face of the yellow tinge of old
wax, long, and with an ailing expression.

"Ah! it's you; well, well!" murmured he. "We're in a hurry you know.
Don't come into the work-room, you'd be in our way. Stay in the
bedroom."

And he resumed his minute task, his face again in the reflection of a
glass globe full of green-colored water, through which the lamp shed a
circle of bright light over his work.

"Take the chairs!" called out Madame Lorilleux in her turn. "It's that
lady, isn't it? Very well, very well!"

She had rolled the wire and she carried it to the forge, and then,
reviving the fire of the brazier with a large wooden fan, she
proceeded to temper the wire before passing it through the last holes
of the draw-plate.

Coupeau moved the chairs forward and seated Gervaise by the curtain.
The room was so narrow that he could not sit beside her, so he sat
behind her, leaning over her shoulder to explain the work in progress.
Gervaise was intimidated by this strange reception and felt uneasy.
She had a buzzing in her ears and couldn't hear clearly. She thought
the wife looked older than her thirty years and not very neat with her
hair in a pigtail dangling down the back of her loosely worn wrapper.
The husband, who was only a year older, appeared already an old man
with mean, thin lips, as he sat there working in his shirt sleeves
with his bare feet thrust into down at the heel slippers. Gervaise was
dismayed by the smallness of the shop, the grimy walls, the rustiness
of the tools, and the black soot spread all over what looked like the
odds and ends of a scrap-iron peddler's wares.

"And the gold?" asked Gervaise in a low voice.

Her anxious glances searched the corners and sought amongst all that
filth for the resplendence she had dreamt of. But Coupeau burst out
laughing.

"Gold?" said he; "why there's some; there's some more, and there's
some at your feet!"

He pointed successively to the fine wire at which his sister was
working, and to another roll of wire, similar to the ordinary iron
wire, hanging against the wall close to the vise; then going down on
all fours, he picked up, beneath the wooden screen which covered the
tiled floor of the work-room, a piece of waste, a tiny fragment
resembling the point of a rusty needle. But Gervaise protested; that
couldn't be gold, that blackish piece of metal as ugly as iron! He had
to bite into the piece and show her the gleaming notch made by his
teeth. Then he continued his explanations: the employers provided the
gold wire, already alloyed; the craftsmen first pulled it through the
draw-plate to obtain the correct size, being careful to anneal it five
or six times to keep it from breaking. It required a steady, strong
hand, and plenty of practice. His sister would not let her husband
touch the wire-drawing since he was subject to coughing spells. She
had strong arms for it; he had seen her draw gold to the fineness of a
hair.

Lorilleux, seized with a fit of coughing, almost doubled up on his
stool. In the midst of the paroxysm, he spoke, and said in a choking
voice, still without looking at Gervaise, as though he was merely
mentioning the thing to himself:

"I'm making the herring-bone chain."

Coupeau urged Gervaise to get up. She might draw nearer and see. The
chainmaker consented with a grunt. He wound the wire prepared by his
wife round a mandrel, a very thin steel rod. Then he sawed gently,
cutting the wire the whole length of the mandrel, each turn forming a
link, which he soldered. The links were laid on a large piece of
charcoal. He wetted them with a drop of borax, taken from the bottom
of a broken glass beside him; and he made them red-hot at the lamp
beneath the horizontal flame produced by the blow-pipe. Then, when he
had soldered about a hundred links he returned once more to his minute
work, propping his hands against the edge of the /cheville/, a small
piece of board which the friction of his hands had polished. He bent
each link almost double with the pliers, squeezed one end close,
inserted it in the last link already in place and then, with the aid
of a point opened out again the end he had squeezed; and he did this
with a continuous regularity, the links joining each other so rapidly
that the chain gradually grew beneath Gervaise's gaze, without her
being able to follow, or well understand how it was done.

"That's the herring-bone chain," said Coupeau. "There's also the long
link, the cable, the plain ring, and the spiral. But that's the
herring-bone. Lorilleux only makes the herring-bone chain."

The latter chuckled with satisfaction. He exclaimed, as he continued
squeezing the links, invisible between his black finger-nails.

"Listen to me, Young Cassis! I was making a calculation this morning.
I commenced work when I was twelve years old, you know. Well! Can you
guess how long a herring-bone chain I must have made up till to-day?"

He raised his pale face, and blinked his red eye-lids.

"Twenty-six thousand feet, do you hear? Two leagues! That's something!
A herring-bone chain two leagues long! It's enough to twist round the
necks of all the women of the neighborhood. And you know, it's still
increasing. I hope to make it long enough to reach from Paris to
Versailles."

Gervaise had returned to her seat, disenchanted and thinking
everything very ugly. She smiled to be polite to the Lorilleuxs. The
complete silence about her marriage bothered her. It was the sole
reason for her having come. The Lorilleuxs were treating her as some
stranger brought in by Coupeau. When a conversation finally did get
started, it concerned the building's tenants. Madame Lorilleux asked
her husband if he had heard the people on the fourth floor having a
fight. They fought every day. The husband usually came home drunk and
the wife had her faults too, yelling in the filthiest language. Then
they spoke of the designer on the first floor, an uppity show-off with
a mound of debts, always smoking, always arguing loudly with his
friends. Monsieur Madinier's cardboard business was barely surviving.
He had let two girl workers go yesterday. The business ate up all his
money, leaving his children to run around in rags. And that Madame
Gaudron was pregnant again; this was almost indecent at her age. The
landlord was going to evict the Coquets on the fifth floor. They owed
nine months' rent, and besides, they insisted on lighting their stove
out on the landing. Last Saturday the old lady on the sixth floor,
Mademoiselle Remanjou, had arrived just in time to save the Linguerlot
child from being badly burned. Mademoiselle Clemence, one who took in
ironing, well, she lived life as she pleased. She was so kind to
animals though and had such a good heart that you couldn't say
anything against her. It was a pity, a fine girl like her, the company
she kept. She'd be walking the streets before long.

"Look, here's one," said Lorilleux to his wife, giving her the piece
of chain he had been working on since his lunch. "You can trim it."
And he added, with the persistence of a man who does not easily
relinquish a joke: "Another four feet and a half. That brings me
nearer to Versailles."

Madame Lorilleux, after tempering it again, trimmed it by passing it
through the regulating draw-plate. Then she put it in a little copper
saucepan with a long handle, full of lye-water, and placed it over the
fire of the forge. Gervaise, again pushed forward by Coupeau, had to
follow this last operation. When the chain was thoroughly cleansed, it
appeared a dull red color. It was finished, and ready to be delivered.

"They're always delivered like that, in their rough state," the zinc-
worker explained. "The polishers rub them afterwards with cloths."

Gervaise felt her courage failing her. The heat, more and more
intense, was suffocating her. They kept the door shut, because
Lorilleux caught cold from the least draught. Then as they still did
not speak of the marriage, she wanted to go away and gently pulled
Coupeau's jacket. He understood. Besides, he also was beginning to
feel ill at ease and vexed at their affectation of silence.

"Well, we're off," said he. "We mustn't keep you from your work."

He moved about for a moment, waiting, hoping for a word or some
allusion or other. At length he decided to broach the subject himself.

"I say, Lorilleux, we're counting on you to be my wife's witness."

The chainmaker pretended, with a chuckle, to be greatly surprised;
whilst his wife, leaving her draw-plates, placed herself in the middle
of the work-room.

"So it's serious then?" murmured he. "That confounded Young Cassis,
one never knows whether he is joking or not."

"Ah! yes, madame's the person involved," said the wife in her turn, as
she stared rudely at Gervaise. "/Mon Dieu!/ We've no advice to give
you, we haven't. It's a funny idea to go and get married, all the
same. Anyhow, it's your own wish. When it doesn't succeed, one's only
got oneself to blame, that's all. And it doesn't often succeed, not
often, not often."

She uttered these last words slower and slower, and shaking her head,
she looked from the young woman's face to her hands, and then to her
feet as though she had wished to undress her and see the very pores of
her skin. She must have found her better than she expected.

"My brother is perfectly free," she continued more stiffly. "No doubt
the family might have wished--one always makes projects. But things
take such funny turns. For myself, I don't want to have any
unpleasantness. Had he brought us the lowest of the low, I should
merely have said: 'Marry her and go to blazes!' He was not badly off
though, here with us. He's fat enough; one can very well see he didn't
fast much; and he always found his soup hot right on time. I say,
Lorilleux, don't you think madame's like Therese--you know who I mean,
that woman who used to live opposite, and who died of consumption?"

"Yes, there's a certain resemblance," replied the chainmaker.

"And you've got two children, madame? Now, I must admit I said to my
brother: 'I can't understand how you can want to marry a woman who's
got two children.' You mustn't be offended if I consult his interests;
its only natural. You don't look strong either. Don't you think,
Lorilleux, that madame doesn't look very strong?"

"No, no, she's not strong."

They did not mention her leg; but Gervaise understood by their side
glances, and the curling of their lips, that they were alluding to it.
She stood before them, wrapped in her thin shawl with the yellow
palms, replying in monosyllables, as though in the presence of her
judges. Coupeau, seeing she was suffering, ended by exclaiming:

"All that's nothing to do with it. What you are talking about isn't
important. The wedding will take place on Saturday, July 29. I
calculated by the almanac. Is it settled? Does it suit you?"

"Oh, it's all the same to us," said his sister. "There was no
necessity to consult us. I shan't prevent Lorilleux being witness. I
only want peace and quiet."

Gervaise, hanging her head, not knowing what to do with herself had
put the toe of her boot through one of the openings in the wooden
screen which covered the tiled floor of the work-room; then afraid of
having disturbed something when she had withdrawn it, she stooped down
and felt about with her hand. Lorilleux hastily brought the lamp, and
he examined her fingers suspiciously.

"You must be careful," said he, "the tiny bits of gold stick to the
shoes, and get carried away without one knowing it."

It was all to do with business. The employers didn't allow a single
speck for waste. He showed her the rabbit's foot he used to brush off
any flecks of gold left on the /cheville/ and the leather he kept on
his lap to catch any gold that fell. Twice weekly the shop was swept
out carefully, the sweepings collected and burned and the ashes
sifted. This recovered up to twenty-five or thirty francs' worth of
gold a month.

Madame Lorilleux could not take her eyes from Gervaise's shoes.

"There's no reason to get angry," murmured she with an amiable smile.
"But, perhaps madame would not mind looking at the soles of her
shoes."

And Gervaise, turning very red, sat down again, and holding up her
feet showed that there was nothing clinging to them. Coupeau had
opened the door, exclaiming: "Good-night!" in an abrupt tone of voice.
He called to her from the corridor. Then she in her turn went off,
after stammering a few polite words: she hoped to see them again, and
that they would all agree well together. Both of the Lorilleux had
already gone back to their work at the far end of their dark hole of a
work-room. Madame Lorilleux, her skin reflecting the red glow from the
bed of coals, was drawing on another wire. Each effort swelling her
neck and making the strained muscles stand out like taut cords. Her
husband, hunched over beneath the greenish gleam of the globe was
starting another length of chain, twisting each link with his pliers,
pressing it on one side, inserting it into the next link above,
opening it again with the pointed tool, continuously, mechanically,
not wasting a motion, even to wipe the sweat from his face.

When Gervaise emerged from the corridor on to the landing, she could
not help saying, with tears in her eyes:

"That doesn't promise much happiness."

Coupeau shook his head furiously. He would get even with Lorilleux for
that evening. Had anyone ever seen such a miserly fellow? To think
that they were going to walk off with two or three grains of his gold
dust! All the fuss they made was from pure avarice. His sister thought
perhaps that he would never marry, so as to enable her to economize
four sous on her dinner every day. However, it would take place all
the same on July 29. He did not care a hang for them!

Nevertheless, Gervaise still felt depressed. Tormented by a foolish
fearfulness, she peered anxiously into every dark shadow along the
stair-rail as she descended. It was dark and deserted at this hour,
lit only by a single gas jet on the second floor. In the shadowy
depths of the dark pit, it gave a spot of brightness, even with its
flamed turned so low. It was now silent behind the closed doors; the
weary laborers had gone to sleep after eating. However, there was a
soft laugh from Mademoiselle Clemence's room and a ray of light shone
through the keyhole of Mademoiselle Remanjou's door. She was still
busy cutting out dresses for the dolls. Downstairs at Madame
Gaudron's, a child was crying. The sinks on the landings smelled more
offensive than ever in the midst of the darkness and stillness.

In the courtyard, Gervaise turned back for a last look at the tenement
as Coupeau called out to the concierge. The building seemed to have
grown larger under the moonless sky. The drip-drip of water from the
faucet sounded loud in the quiet. Gervaise felt that the building was
threatening to suffocate her and a chill went through her body. It was
a childish fear and she smiled at it a moment later.

"Watch your step," warned Coupeau.

To get to the entrance, Gervaise had to jump over a wide puddle that
had drained from the dye shop. The puddle was blue now, the deep blue
of a summer sky. The reflections from the night light of the concierge
sparkled in it like stars.



                             CHAPTER III.

Gervaise did not want to have a wedding-party! What was the use of
spending money? Besides, she still felt somewhat ashamed; it seemed to
her quite unnecessary to parade the marriage before the whole
neighborhood. But Coupeau cried out at that. One could not be married
without having a feed. He did not care a button for the people of the
neighborhood! Nothing elaborate, just a short walk and a rabbit ragout
in the first eating-house they fancied. No music with dessert. Just a
glass or two and then back home.

The zinc-worker, chaffing and joking, at length got the young woman to
consent by promising her that there should be no larks. He would keep
his eye on the glasses, to prevent sunstrokes. Then he organized a
sort of picnic at five francs a head, at the "Silver Windmill," kept
by Auguste, on the Boulevard de la Chapelle. It was a small cafe with
moderate charges and had a dancing place in the rear, beneath the
three acacias in the courtyard. They would be very comfortable on the
first floor. During the next ten days, he got hold of guests in the
house where his sister lived in the Rue de la Goutte-d'Or--Monsieur
Madinier, Mademoiselle Remanjou, Madame Gaudron and her husband. He
even ended by getting Gervaise to consent to the presence of two of
his comrades--Bibi-the-Smoker and My-Boots. No doubt My-Boots was a
boozer; but then he had such a fantastic appetite that he was always
asked to join those sort of gatherings, just for the sight of the
caterer's mug when he beheld that bottomless pit swallowing his twelve
pounds of bread. The young woman on her side, promised to bring her
employer Madame Fauconnier and the Boches, some very agreeable people.
On counting, they found there would be fifteen to sit down to table,
which was quite enough. When there are too many, they always wind up
by quarrelling.

Coupeau however, had no money. Without wishing to show off, he
intended to behave handsomely. He borrowed fifty francs of his
employer. Out of that, he first of all purchased the wedding-ring--a
twelve franc gold wedding-ring, which Lorilleux procured for him at
the wholesale price of nine francs. He then bought himself a frock
coat, a pair of trousers and a waistcoat at a tailor's in the Rue
Myrrha, to whom he gave merely twenty-five francs on account; his
patent leather shoes and his hat were still good enough. When he had
put by the ten francs for his and Gervaise's share of the feast--the
two children not being charged for--he had exactly six francs left--
the price of a low mass at the altar of the poor. He had no liking for
those black crows, the priests. It would gripe him to pay his last six
francs to keep their whistles wet; however, a marriage without a mass
wasn't a real marriage at all.

Going to the church himself, he bargained for a whole hour with a
little old priest in a dirty cassock who was as sharp at dealing as a
push-cart peddler. Coupeau felt like boxing his ears. For a joke, he
asked the priest if he didn't have a second-hand mass that would do
for a modest young couple. The priest, mumbling that God would take
small pleasure in blessing their union, finally let his have his mass
for five francs. Well after all, that meant twenty sous saved.

Gervaise also wanted to look decent. As soon as the marriage was
settled, she made her arrangements, worked extra time in the evenings,
and managed to put thirty francs on one side. She had a great longing
for a little silk mantle marked thirteen francs in the Rue du Faubourg
Poissonniere. She treated herself to it, and then bought for ten
francs of the husband of a washerwoman who had died in Madame
Fauconnier's house a blue woolen dress, which she altered to fit
herself. With the seven francs remaining she procured a pair of cotton
gloves, a rose for her cap, and some shoes for Claude, her eldest boy.
Fortunately the youngsters' blouses were passable. She spent four
nights cleaning everything, and mending the smallest holes in her
stockings and chemise.

On Friday night, the eve of the great day, Gervaise and Coupeau had
still a good deal of running about to do up till eleven o'clock, after
returning home from work. Then before separating for the night they
spent an hour together in the young woman's room, happy at being about
to be released from their awkward position. In spite of the fact that
they had originally resolved not to put themselves out to impress the
neighbors, they had ended by taking it seriously and working
themselves till they were weary. By the time they said "Good-night,"
they were almost asleep on their feet. They breathed a great sigh of
relief now that everything was ready.

Coupeau's witnesses were to be Monsieur Madinier and Bibi-the-Smoker.
They were counting on Lorilleux and Boche for Gervaise's witnesses.
They were to go quietly to the mayor's office and the church, just the
six of them, without a whole procession of people trailing behind
them. The bridegroom's two sisters had even declared that they would
stay home, their presence not being necessary. Coupeau's mother,
however, had sobbed and wailed, threatening to go ahead of them and
hide herself in some corner of the church, until they had promised to
take her along. The meeting of the guests was set for one o'clock at
the Silver Windmill. From there, they would go to Saint-Denis, going
out by railroad and returning on foot along the highway in order to
work up an appetite. The party promised to be quite all right.

Saturday morning, while getting dressed, Coupeau felt a qualm of
uneasiness in view of the single franc in his pocket. He began to
think that it was a matter of ordinary courtesy to offer a glass of
wine and a slice of ham to the witnesses while awaiting dinner. Also,
there might be unforeseen expenses. So, after taking Claude and
Etienne to stay with Madame Boche, who was to bring them to the dinner
later that afternoon, he hurried over to the Rue de la Goutte-d'Or to
borrow ten francs from Lorilleux. Having to do that griped him
immensely as he could guess the attitude his brother-in-law would
take. The latter did grumble a bit, but ended by lending him two five-
franc pieces. However, Coupeau overheard his sister muttering under
her breath, "This is a fine beginning."

The ceremony at the mayor's was to take place at half-past ten. It was
beautiful weather--a magnificent sun seemed to roast the streets. So
as not to be stared at the bride and bridegroom, the old mother, and
the four witnesses separated into two bands. Gervaise walked in front
with Lorilleux, who gave her his arm; whilst Monsieur Madinier
followed with mother Coupeau. Then, twenty steps behind on the
opposite side of the way, came Coupeau, Boche, and Bibi-the-Smoker.
These three were in black frock coats, walking erect and swinging
their arms. Boche's trousers were bright yellow. Bibi-the-Smoker
didn't have a waistcoat so he was buttoned up to the neck with only a
bit of his cravat showing. The only one in a full dress suit was
Monsieur Madinier and passers-by gazed at this well-dressed gentleman
escorting the huge bulk of mother Coupeau in her green shawl and black
bonnet with red ribbons.

Gervaise looked very gay and sweet in her dress of vivid blue and with
her new silk mantle fitted tightly to her shoulders. She listened
politely to the sneering remarks of Lorilleux, who seemed buried in
the depths of the immense overcoat he was wearing. From time to time,
Gervaise would turn her head a little to smile brightly at Coupeau,
who was rather uncomfortable under the hot sun in his new clothes.

Though they walked very slowly, they arrived at the mayor's quite half
an hour too soon. And as the mayor was late, their turn was not
reached till close upon eleven o'clock. They sat down on some chairs
and waited in a corner of the apartment, looking by turns at the high
ceiling and bare walls, talking low, and over-politely pushing back
their chairs each time that one of the attendants passed. Yet among
themselves they called the mayor a sluggard, saying he must be
visiting his blonde to get a massage for his gout, or that maybe he'd
swallowed his official sash.

However, when the mayor did put in his appearance, they rose
respectfully in his honor. They were asked to sit down again and they
had to wait through three other marriages. The hall was crowded with
the three bourgeois wedding parties: brides all in white, little girls
with carefully curled hair, bridesmaids wearing wide sashes, an
endless procession of ladies and gentlemen dressed in their best and
looking very stylish.

When at length they were called, they almost missed being married
altogether. Bibi-the-Smoker having disappeared. Boche discovered him
outside smoking his pipe. Well! They were a nice lot inside there to
humbug people about like that, just because one hadn't yellow kid
gloves to shove under their noses! And the various formalities--the
reading of the Code, the different questions to be put, the signing of
all the documents--were all got through so rapidly that they looked at
each other with an idea that they had been robbed of a good half of
the ceremony. Gervaise, dizzy, her heart full, pressed her
handkerchief to her lips. Mother Coupeau wept bitterly. All had signed
the register, writing their names in big struggling letters with the
exception of the bridegroom, who not being able to write, had put his
cross. They each gave four sous for the poor. When an attendant handed
Coupeau the marriage certificate, the latter, prompted by Gervaise who
nudged his elbow, handed him another five sous.

It was a fair walk from the mayor's office in the town hall to the
church. The men stopped along the way to have a beer. Mother Coupeau
and Gervaise took cassis with water. Then they had to trudge along the
long street where the sun glared straight down without the relief of
shade.

When they arrived at the church they were hurried along and asked if
they came so late in order to make a mockery of religion. A priest
came forward, his face pale and resentful from having to delay his
lunch. An altar boy in a soiled surplice ran before him.

The mass went very fast, with the priest turning, bowing his head,
spreading out his arms, making all the ritual gestures in haste while
casting sidelong glances at the group. Gervaise and Coupeau, before
the altar, were embarrassed, not knowing when they should kneel or
rise or seat themselves, expecting some indication from the attendant.
The witnesses, not knowing what was proper, remained standing during
the ceremony. Mother Coupeau was weeping again and shedding her tears
into the missal she had borrowed from a neighbor.

Meanwhile, the noon chimes had sounded and the church began to fill
with noise from the shuffling feet of sacristans and the clatter of
chairs being put back in place. The high altar was apparently being
prepared for some special ceremony.

Thus, in the depths of this obscure chapel, amid the floating dust,
the surly priest placed his withered hands on the bared heads of
Gervaise and Coupeau, blessing their union amid a hubbub like that of
moving day. The wedding party signed another registry, this time in
the sacristy, and then found themselves out in the bright sunlight
before the church doors where they stood for a moment, breathless and
confused from having been carried along at such a break-neck speed.

"Voila!" said Coupeau with an embarrassed laugh. "Well, it sure didn't
take long. They shove it at you so; it's like being at the painless
dentist's who doesn't give you time to cry out. Here you get a
painless wedding!"

"Yes, it's a quick job," Lorilleux smirked. "In five minutes you're
tied together for the rest of your life. You poor Young Cassis, you've
had it."

The four witnesses whacked Coupeau on the shoulders as he arched his
back against the friendly blows. Meanwhile Gervaise was hugging and
kissing mother Coupeau, her eyes moist, a smile lighting her face. She
replied reassuringly to the old woman's sobbing: "Don't worry, I'll do
my best. I want so much to have a happy life. If it doesn't work out
it won't be my fault. Anyhow, it's done now. It's up to us to get
along together and do the best we can for each other."

After that they went straight to the Silver Windmill. Coupeau had
taken his wife's arm. They walked quickly, laughing as though carried
away, quite two hundred steps ahead of the others, without noticing
the houses or the passers-by, or the vehicles. The deafening noises of
the faubourg sounded like bells in their ears. When they reached the
wineshop, Coupeau at once ordered two bottles of wine, some bread and
some slices of ham, to be served in the little glazed closet on the
ground floor, without plates or table cloth, simply to have a snack.
Then, noticing that Boche and Bibi-the-Smoker seemed to be very
hungry, he had a third bottle brought, as well as a slab of brie
cheese. Mother Coupeau was not hungry, being too choked up to be able
to eat. Gervaise found herself very thirsty, and drank several large
glasses of water with a small amount of wine added.

"I'll settle for this," said Coupeau, going at once to the bar, where
he paid four francs and five sous.

It was now one o'clock and the other guests began to arrive. Madame
Fauconnier, a fat woman, still good looking, first put in an
appearance; she wore a chintz dress with a flowery pattern, a pink tie
and a cap over-trimmed with flowers. Next came Mademoiselle Remanjou,
looking very thin in the eternal black dress which she seemed to keep
on even when she went to bed; and the two Gaudrons--the husband, like
some heavy animal and almost bursting his brown jacket at the
slightest movement, the wife, an enormous woman, whose figure
indicated evident signs of an approaching maternity and whose stiff
violet colored skirt still more increased her rotundity. Coupeau
explained that they were not to wait for My-Boots; his comrade would
join the party on the Route de Saint-Denis.

"Well!" exclaimed Madame Lerat as she entered, "it'll pour in torrents
soon! That'll be pleasant!"

And she called everyone to the door of the wineshop to see the clouds
as black as ink which were rising rapidly to the south of Paris.
Madame Lerat, eldest of the Coupeaus, was a tall, gaunt woman who
talked through her nose. She was unattractively dressed in a puce-
colored robe that hung loosely on her and had such long dangling
fringes that they made her look like a skinny poodle coming out of the
water. She brandished her umbrella like a club. After greeting
Gervaise, she said, "You've no idea. The heat in the street is like a
slap on the face. You'd think someone was throwing fire at you."

Everyone agreed that they knew the storm was coming. It was in the
air. Monsieur Madinier said that he had seen it as they were coming
out of the church. Lorilleux mentioned that his corns were aching and
he hadn't been able to sleep since three in the morning. A storm was
due. It had been much too hot for three days in a row.

"Well, maybe it will just be a little mist," Coupeau said several
times, standing at the door and anxiously studying the sky. "Now we
have to wait only for my sister. We'll start as soon as she arrives."

Madame Lorilleux was late. Madame Lerat had stopped by so they could
come together, but found her only beginning to get dressed. The two
sisters had argued. The widow whispered in her brother's ear, "I left
her flat! She's in a dreadful mood. You'll see."

And the wedding party had to wait another quarter of an hour, walking
about the wineshop, elbowed and jostled in the midst of the men who
entered to drink a glass of wine at the bar. Now and again Boche, or
Madame Fauconnier, or Bibi-the-Smoker left the others and went to the
edge of the pavement, looking up at the sky. The storm was not passing
over at all; a darkness was coming on and puffs of wind, sweeping
along the ground, raised little clouds of white dust. At the first
clap of thunder, Mademoiselle Remanjou made the sign of the cross. All
the glances were anxiously directed to the clock over the looking-
glass; it was twenty minutes to two.

"Here it goes!" cried Coupeau. "It's the angels who're weeping."

A gush of rain swept the pavement, along which some women flew,
holding down their skirts with both hands. And it was in the midst of
this first shower that Madame Lorilleux at length arrived, furious and
out of breath, and struggling on the threshold with her umbrella that
would not close.

"Did any one ever see such a thing?" she exclaimed. "It caught me just
at the door. I felt inclined to go upstairs again and take my things
off. I should have been wise had I done so. Ah! it's a pretty wedding!
I said how it would be. I wanted to put it off till next Saturday; and
it rains because they wouldn't listen to me! So much the better, so
much the better! I wish the sky would burst!"

Coupeau tried to pacify her without success. He wouldn't have to pay
for her dress if it was spoilt! She had on a black silk dress in which
she was nearly choking, the bodice, too tight fitting, was almost
bursting the button-holes, and was cutting her across the shoulders;
while the skirt only allowed her to take very short steps in walking.
However, the ladies present were all staring at her, quite overcome by
her costume.

She appeared not to notice Gervaise, who was sitting beside mother
Coupeau. She asked her husband for his handkerchief. Then she went
into a corner and very carefully wiped off the raindrops that had
fallen on her silk dress.

The shower had abruptly ceased. The darkness increased, it was almost
like night--a livid night rent at times by large flashes of lightning.
Bibi-the-Smoker said laughingly that it would certainly rain priests.
Then the storm burst forth with extreme violence. For half an hour the
rain came down in bucketsful, and the thunder rumbled unceasingly. The
men standing up before the door contemplated the grey veil of the
downpour, the swollen gutters, the splashes of water caused by the
rain beating into the puddles. The women, feeling frightened, had sat
down again, holding their hands before their eyes. They no longer
conversed, they were too upset. A jest Boche made about the thunder,
saying that St. Peter was sneezing up there, failed to raise a smile.
But, when the thunder-claps became less frequent and gradually died
away in the distance, the wedding guests began to get impatient,
enraged against the storm, cursing and shaking their fists at the
clouds. A fine and interminable rain now poured down from the sky
which had become an ashy grey.

"It's past two o'clock," cried Madame Lorilleux. "We can't stop here
for ever."

Mademoiselle Remanjou, having suggested going into the country all the
same, even though they went no farther than the moat of the
fortifications, the others scouted the idea: the roads would be in a
nice state, one would not even be able to sit down on the grass;
besides, it did not seem to be all over yet, there might perhaps be
another downpour. Coupeau, who had been watching a workman, completely
soaked, yet quietly walking along in the rain, murmured:

"If that animal My-Boots is waiting for us on the Route de Saint-
Denis, he won't catch a sunstroke."

That made some of them laugh; but the general ill-humor increased. It
was becoming ludicrous. They must decide on something unless they
planned to sit there, staring at each other, until time for dinner. So
for the next quarter of an hour, while the persistent rain continued,
they tried to think of what to do. Bibi-the-Smoker suggested that they
play cards. Boche slyly suggesting a most amusing game, the game of
true confessions. Madame Gaudron thought of going to eat onion tarts
on the Chaussee Clignancourt. Madame Lerat wanted to hear some
stories. Gaudron said he wasn't a bit put out and thought they were
quite well off where they were, out of the downpour. He suggested
sitting down to dinner immediately.

There was a discussion after each proposal. Some said that this would
put everybody to sleep or that that would make people think they were
stupid. Lorilleux had to get his word in. He finally suggested a walk
along the outer Boulevards to Pere Lachaise cemetery. They could visit
the tomb of Heloise and Abelard. Madame Lorilleux exploded, no longer
able to control herself. She was leaving, she was. Were they trying to
make fun of her? She got all dressed up and came out in the rain. And
for what? To be wasting time in a wineshop. No, she had had enough of
this wedding party. She'd rather be in her own home. Coupeau and
Lorilleux had to get between her and the door to keep her from
leaving. She kept telling them, "Get out of my way! I am leaving, I
tell you!"

Lorilleux finally succeeded in calming her down. Coupeau went over to
Gervaise, who had been sitting quietly in a corner with mother Coupeau
and Madame Fauconnier.

"You haven't suggested anything," he said to her.

"Oh! Whatever they want," she replied, laughing. "I don't mind. We can
go out or stay here."

She seemed aglow with contentment. She had spoken to each guest as
they arrived. She spoke sensibly, in her soft voice, not getting into
any disagreements. During the downpour, she had sat with her eyes wide
open, watching the lightning as though she could see the future in the
sudden flashes.

Monsieur Madinier had up to this time not proposed anything. He was
leaning against the bar, with the tails of his dress coat thrust
apart, while he fully maintained the important air of an employer. He
kept on expectorating, and rolled his big eyes about.

"/Mon Dieu/!" said he, "we might go to the Museum."

And he stroked his chin, as he blinkingly consulted the other members
of the party.

"There are antiquities, pictures, paintings, a whole heap of things.
It is very instructive. Perhaps you have never been there. Oh! it is
quite worth seeing at least once in a while."

They looked at each other interrogatively. No, Gervaise had never
been; Madame Fauconnier neither, nor Boche, nor the others. Coupeau
thought he had been one Sunday, but he was not sure. They hesitated,
however, when Madame Lorilleux, greatly impressed by Monsieur
Madinier's importance, thought the suggestion a very worthy and
respectable one. As they were wasting the day, and were all dressed
up, they might as well go somewhere for their own instruction.
Everyone approved. Then, as it still rained a little, they borrowed
some umbrellas from the proprietor of the wineshop, old blue, green,
and brown umbrellas, forgotten by different customers, and started off
to the Museum.

The wedding party turned to the right, and descended into Paris along
the Faubourg Saint-Denis. Coupeau and Gervaise again took the lead,
almost running and keeping a good distance in front of the others.
Monsieur Madinier now gave his arm to Madame Lorilleux, mother Coupeau
having remained behind in the wineshop on account of her old legs.
Then came Lorilleux and Madame Lerat, Boche and Madame Fauconnier,
Bibi-the-Smoker and Mademoiselle Remanjou, and finally the two
Gaudrons. They were twelve and made a pretty long procession on the
pavement.

"I swear to you, we had nothing to do with it," Madame Lorilleux
explained to Monsieur Madinier. "We don't even know how they met, or,
we know only too well, but that's not for us to discuss. My husband
even had to buy the wedding ring. We were scarcely out of bed this
morning when he had to lend them ten francs. And, not a member of her
family at her wedding, what kind of bride is that? She says she has a
sister in Paris who works for a pork butcher. Why didn't she invite
her?" She stopped to point at Gervaise, who was limping awkwardly
because of the slope of the pavement. "Just look at her. Clump-clump."

"Clump-clump" ran through the wedding procession. Lorilleux laughed
under his breath, and said they ought to call her that, but Madame
Fauconnier stood up for Gervaise. They shouldn't make fun of her; she
was neat as a pin and did a good job when there was washing to be
done.

When the wedding procession came out of the Faubourg Saint-Denis, they
had to cross the boulevard. The street had been transformed into a
morass of sticky mud by the storm. It had started to pour again and
they had opened the assorted umbrellas. The women picked their way
carefully through the mud, holding their skirts high as the men held
the sorry-looking umbrellas over their heads. The procession stretched
out the width of the street.

"It's a masquerade!" yelled two street urchins.

People turned to stare. These couples parading across the boulevard
added a splash of vivid color against the damp background. It was a
parade of a strange medley of styles showing fancy used clothing such
as constitute the luxury of the poor. The gentlemen's hats caused the
most merriment, old hats preserved for years in dark and dusty
cupboards, in a variety of comical forms: tall ones, flattened ones,
sharply peaked ones, hats with extraordinary brims, curled back or
flat, too narrow or too wide. Then at the very end, Madame Gaudron
came along with her bright dress over her bulging belly and caused the
smiles of the audience to grow even wider. The procession made no
effort to hasten its progress. They were, in fact, rather pleased to
attract so much attention and admiration.

"Look! Here comes the bride!" one of the urchins shouted, pointing to
Madame Gaudron. "Oh! Isn't it too bad! She must have swallowed
something!"

The entire wedding procession burst into laughter. Bibi-the-Smoker
turned around and laughed. Madame Gaudron laughed the most of all. She
wasn't ashamed as she thought more than one of the women watching had
looked at her with envy.

They turned into the Rue de Clery. Then they took the Rue du Mail. On
reaching the Place des Victoires, there was a halt. The bride's left
shoe lace had come undone, and as she tied it up again at the foot of
the statue of Louis XIV., the couples pressed behind her waiting, and
joking about the bit of calf of her leg that she displayed. At length,
after passing down the Rue Croix-des-Petits-Champs, they reached the
Louvre.

Monsieur Madinier politely asked to be their cicerone. It was a big
place, and they might lose themselves; besides, he knew the best
parts, because he had often come there with an artist, a very
intelligent fellow from whom a large dealer bought designs to put on
his cardboard boxes. Down below, when the wedding party entered the
Assyrian Museum, a slight shiver passed through it. The deuce! It was
not at all warm there; the hall would have made a capital cellar. And
the couples slowly advanced, their chins raised, their eyes blinking,
between the gigantic stone figures, the black marble gods, dumb in
their hieratic rigidity, and the monstrous beasts, half cats and half
women, with death-like faces, attenuated noses, and swollen lips. They
thought all these things very ugly. The stone carvings of the present
day were a great deal better. An inscription in Phoenician characters
amazed them. No one could possibly have ever read that scrawl. But
Monsieur Madinier, already up on the first landing with Madame
Lorilleux, called to them, shouting beneath the vaulted ceiling:

"Come along! They're nothing, all those things! The things to see are
on the first floor!"

The severe barrenness of the staircase made them very grave. An
attendant, superbly attired in a red waistcoat and a coat trimmed with
gold lace, who seemed to be awaiting them on the landing, increased
their emotion. It was with great respect, and treading as softly as
possible, that they entered the French Gallery.

Then, without stopping, their eyes occupied with the gilding of the
frames, they followed the string of little rooms, glancing at the
passing pictures too numerous to be seen properly. It would have
required an hour before each, if they had wanted to understand it.
What a number of pictures! There was no end to them. They must be
worth a mint of money. Right at the end, Monsieur Madinier suddenly
ordered a halt opposite the "Raft of the Medusa" and he explained the
subject to them. All deeply impressed and motionless, they uttered not
a word. When they started off again, Boche expressed the general
feeling, saying it was marvellous.

In the Apollo Gallery, the inlaid flooring especially astonished the
party--a shining floor, as clear as a mirror, and which reflected the
legs of the seats. Mademoiselle Remanjou kept her eyes closed, because
she could not help thinking that she was walking on water. They called
to Madame Gaudron to be careful how she trod on account of her
condition. Monsieur Madinier wanted to show them the gilding and
paintings of the ceiling; but it nearly broke their necks to look up
above, and they could distinguish nothing. Then, before entering the
Square Salon, he pointed to a window, saying:

"That's the balcony from which Charles IX. fired on the people."

He looked back to make sure the party was following. In the middle of
the Salon Carre, he held up his hand. "There are only masterpieces
here," he said, in a subdued voice, as though in church. They went all
around the room. Gervaise wanted to know about "The Wedding at Cana."
Coupeau paused to stare at the "Mona Lisa," saying that she reminded
him of one of his aunts. Boche and Bibi-the-Smoker snickered at the
nudes, pointing them out to each other and winking. The Gaudrons
looked at the "Virgin" of Murillo, he with his mouth open, she with
her hands folded on her belly.

When they had been all around the Salon, Monsieur Madinier wished them
to go round it again, it was so worth while. He was very attentive to
Madame Lorilleux, because of her silk dress; and each time that she
questioned him he answered her gravely, with great assurance. She was
curious about "Titian's Mistress" because the yellow hair resembled
her own. He told her it was "La Belle Ferronniere," a mistress of
Henry IV. about whom there had been a play at the Ambigu.

Then the wedding party invaded the long gallery occupied by the
Italian and Flemish schools. More paintings, always paintings, saints,
men and women, with faces which some of them could understand,
landscapes that were all black, animals turned yellow, a medley of
people and things, the great mixture of the colors of which was
beginning to give them all violent headaches. Monsieur Madinier no
longer talked as he slowly headed the procession, which followed him
in good order, with stretched necks and upcast eyes. Centuries of art
passed before their bewildered ignorance, the fine sharpness of the
early masters, the splendors of the Venetians, the vigorous life,
beautiful with light, of the Dutch painters. But what interested them
most were the artists who were copying, with their easels planted
amongst the people, painting away unrestrainedly, an old lady, mounted
on a pair of high steps, working a big brush over the delicate sky of
an immense painting, struck them as something most peculiar.

Slowly the word must have gone around that a wedding party was
visiting the Louvre. Several painters came over with big smiles. Some
visitors were so curious that they went to sit on benches ahead of the
group in order to be comfortable while they watched them pass in
review. Museum guards bit back comments. The wedding party was now
quite weary and beginning to drag their feet.

Monsieur Madinier was reserving himself to give more effect to a
surprise that he had in store. He went straight to the "Kermesse" of
Rubens; but still he said nothing. He contented himself with directing
the others' attention to the picture by a sprightly glance. The ladies
uttered faint cries the moment they brought their noses close to the
painting. Then, blushing deeply they turned away their heads. The men
though kept them there, cracking jokes, and seeking for the coarser
details.

"Just look!" exclaimed Boche, "it's worth the money. There's one
spewing, and another, he's watering the dandelions; and that one--oh!
that one. Ah, well! They're a nice clean lot, they are!"

"Let us be off," said Monsieur Madinier, delighted with his success.
"There is nothing more to see here."

They retraced their steps, passing again through the Salon Carre and
the Apollo Gallery. Madame Lerat and Mademoiselle Remanjou complained,
declaring that their legs could scarcely bear them. But the cardboard
box manufacturer wanted to show Lorilleux the old jewelry. It was
close by in a little room which he could find with his eyes shut.
However, he made a mistake and led the wedding party astray through
seven or eight cold, deserted rooms, only ornamented with severe
looking-glass cases, containing numberless broken pots and hideous
little figures.

While looking for an exit they stumbled into the collection of
drawings. It was immense. Through room after room they saw nothing
interesting, just scribblings on paper that filled all the cases and
covered the walls. They thought there was no end to these drawings.

Monsieur Madinier, losing his head, not willing to admit that he did
not know his way, ascended a flight of stairs, making the wedding
party mount to the next floor. This time they traversed the Naval
Museum, among models of instruments and cannons, plans in relief, and
vessels as tiny as playthings. After going a long way, and walking for
a quarter of an hour, the party came upon another staircase; and,
having descended this, found itself once more surrounded by the
drawings. Then despair took possession of them as they wandered at
random through long halls, following Monsieur Madinier, who was
furious and mopping the sweat from his forehead. He accused the
government of having moved the doors around. Museum guards and
visitors looked on with astonishment as the procession, still in a
column of couples, passed by. They passed again through the Salon
Carre, the French Gallery and then along the cases where minor Eastern
divinities slumbered peacefully. It seemed they would never find their
way out. They were getting tired and made a lot of noise.

"Closing time! Closing time!" called out the attendants, in a loud
tone of voice.

And the wedding party was nearly locked in. An attendant was obliged
to place himself at the head of it, and conduct it to a door. Then in
the courtyard of the Louvre, when it had recovered its umbrellas from
the cloakroom, it breathed again. Monsieur Madinier regained his
assurance. He had made a mistake in not turning to the left, now he
recollected that the jewelry was to the left. The whole party
pretended to be very pleased at having seen all they had.

Four o'clock was striking. There were still two hours to be employed
before the dinner time, so it was decided they should take a stroll,
just to occupy the interval. The ladies, who were very tired, would
have preferred to sit down; but, as no one offered any refreshments,
they started off, following the line of quays. There they encountered
another shower and so sharp a one that in spite of the umbrellas, the
ladies' dresses began to get wet. Madame Lorilleux, her heart sinking
within her each time a drop fell upon her black silk, proposed that
they should shelter themselves under the Pont-Royal; besides if the
others did not accompany her, she threatened to go all by herself. And
the procession marched under one of the arches of the bridge. They
were very comfortable there. It was, most decidedly a capital idea!
The ladies, spreading their handkerchiefs over the paving-stones, sat
down with their knees wide apart, and pulled out the blades of grass
that grew between the stones with both hands, whilst they watched the
dark flowing water as though they were in the country. The men amused
themselves with calling out very loud, so as to awaken the echoes of
the arch. Boche and Bibi-the-Smoker shouted insults into the air at
the top of their voices, one after the other. They laughed
uproariously when the echo threw the insults back at them. When their
throats were hoarse from shouting, they made a game of skipping flat
stones on the surface of the Seine.

The shower had ceased but the whole party felt so comfortable that no
one thought of moving away. The Seine was flowing by, an oily sheet
carrying bottle corks, vegetable peelings, and other refuse that
sometimes collected in temporary whirlpools moving along with the
turbulent water. Endless traffic rumbled on the bridge overhead, the
noisy bustle of Paris, of which they could glimpse only the rooftops
to the left and right, as though they were in the bottom of a deep
pit.

Mademoiselle Remanjou sighed; if the leaves had been out this would
have reminded her of a bend of the Marne where she used to go with a
young man. It still made her cry to think of him.

At last, Monsieur Madinier gave the signal for departure. They passed
through the Tuileries gardens, in the midst of a little community of
children, whose hoops and balls upset the good order of the couples.
Then as the wedding party on arriving at the Place Vendome looked up
at the column, Monsieur Madinier gallantly offered to treat the ladies
to a view from the top. His suggestion was considered extremely
amusing. Yes, yes, they would go up; it would give them something to
laugh about for a long time. Besides, it would be full of interest for
those persons who had never been higher than a cow pasture.

"Do you think Clump-clump will venture inside there with her leg all
out of place?" murmured Madame Lorilleux.

"I'll go up with pleasure," said Madame Lerat, "but I won't have any
men walking behind me."

And the whole party ascended. In the narrow space afforded by the
spiral staircase, the twelve persons crawled up one after the other,
stumbling against the worn steps, and clinging to the walls. Then,
when the obscurity became complete, they almost split their sides with
laughing. The ladies screamed when the gentlemen pinched their legs.
But they were weren't stupid enough to say anything! The proper plan
is to think that it is the mice nibbling at them. It wasn't very
serious; the men knew when to stop.

Boche thought of a joke and everyone took it up. They called down to
Madame Gaudron to ask her if she could squeeze her belly through. Just
think! If she should get stuck there, she would completely block the
passage, and how would they ever get out? They laughed so at the jokes
about her belly that the column itself vibrated. Boche was now quite
carried away and declared that they were growing old climbing up this
chimney pipe. Was it ever coming to an end, or did it go right up to
heaven? He tried to frighten the ladies by telling them the structure
was shaking.

Coupeau, meanwhile, said nothing. He was behind Gervaise, with his arm
around her waist, and felt that she was everything perfect to him.
When they suddenly emerged again into the daylight, he was just in the
act of kissing her on the cheek.

"Well! You're a nice couple; you don't stand on ceremony," said Madame
Lorilleux with a scandalized air.

Bibi-the-Smoker pretended to be furious. He muttered between his
teeth. "You made such a noise together! I wasn't even able to count
the steps."

But Monsieur Madinier was already up on the platform, pointing out the
different monuments. Neither Madame Fauconnier nor Mademoiselle
Remanjou would on any consideration leave the staircase. The thought
of the pavement below made their blood curdle, and they contented
themselves with glancing out of the little door. Madame Lerat, who was
bolder, went round the narrow terrace, keeping close to the bronze
dome; but, /mon Dieu/, it gave one a rude emotion to think that one
only had to slip off. The men were a little paler than usual as they
stared down at the square below. You would think you were up in mid-
air, detached from everything. No, it wasn't fun, it froze your very
insides.

Monsieur Madinier told them to raise their eyes and look straight into
the distance to avoid feeling dizzy. He went on pointing out the
Invalides, the Pantheon, Notre Dame and the Montmartre hill. Madame
Lorilleux asked if they could see the place where they were to have
dinner, the Silver Windmill on the Boulevard de la Chapelle. For ten
minutes they tried to see it, even arguing about it. Everyone had
their own idea where it was.

"It wasn't worth while coming up here to bite each other's noses off,"
said Boche, angrily as he turned to descend the staircase.

The wedding party went down, unspeaking and sulky, awakening no other
sound beyond that of shoes clanking on the stone steps. When it
reached the bottom, Monsieur Madinier wished to pay; but Coupeau would
not permit him, and hastened to place twenty-four sous into the
keeper's hand, two sous for each person. So they returned by the
Boulevards and the Faubourg du Poissonniers. Coupeau, however,
considered that their outing could not end like that. He bundled them
all into a wineshop where they took some vermouth.

The repast was ordered for six o'clock. At the Silver Windmill, they
had been waiting for the wedding party for a good twenty minutes.
Madame Boche, who had got a lady living in the same house to attend to
her duties for the evening, was conversing with mother Coupeau in the
first floor room, in front of the table, which was all laid out; and
the two youngsters, Claude and Etienne, whom she had brought with her,
were playing about beneath the table and amongst the chairs. When
Gervaise, on entering caught sight of the little ones, whom she had
not seen all the day, she took them on her knees, and caressed and
kissed them.

"Have they been good?" asked she of Madame Boche. "I hope they haven't
worried you too much."

And as the latter related the things the little rascals had done
during the afternoon, and which would make one die with laughing, the
mother again took them up and pressed them to her breast, seized with
an overpowering outburst of maternal affection.

"It's not very pleasant for Coupeau, all the same," Madame Lorilleux
was saying to the other ladies, at the end of the room.

Gervaise had kept her smiling peacefulness from the morning, but after
the long walk she appeared almost sad at times as she watched her
husband and the Lorilleuxs in a thoughtful way. She had the feeling
that Coupeau was a little afraid of his sister. The evening before, he
had been talking big, swearing he would put them in their places if
they didn't behave. However, she could see that in their presence he
was hanging on their words, worrying when he thought they might be
displeased. This gave the young bride some cause for worry about the
future.

They were now only waiting for My-Boots, who had not yet put in an
appearance.

"Oh! blow him!" cried Coupeau, "let's begin. You'll see, he'll soon
turn up, he's got a hollow nose, he can scent the grub from afar. I
say he must be amusing himself, if he's still standing like a post on
the Route de Saint-Denis!"

Then the wedding party, feeling very lively, sat down making a great
noise with the chairs. Gervaise was between Lorilleux and Monsieur
Madinier, and Coupeau between Madame Fauconnier and Madame Lorilleux.
The other guests seated themselves where they liked, because it always
ended with jealousies and quarrels, when one settled their places for
them. Boche glided to a seat beside Madame Lerat. Bibi-the-Smoker had
for neighbors Mademoiselle Remanjou and Madame Gaudron. As for Madame
Boche and mother Coupeau, they were right at the end of the table,
looking after the children, cutting up their meat and giving them
something to drink, but not much wine.

"Does nobody say grace?" asked Boche, whilst the ladies arranged their
skirts under the table-cloth, so as not to get them stained.

But Madame Lorilleux paid no attention to such pleasantries. The
vermicelli soup, which was nearly cold, was gulped down very quickly,
their lips making a hissing noise against the spoons. Two waiters
served at table, dressed in little greasy jackets and not over-clean
white aprons. By the four open windows overlooking the acacias of the
courtyard there entered the clear light of the close of a stormy day,
with the atmosphere purified thereby though without sufficiently
cooling it. The light reflected from the humid corner of trees tinged
the haze-filled room with green and made leaf shadows dance along the
table-cloth, from which came a vague aroma of dampness and mildew.

Two large mirrors, one at each end of the room, seemed to stretch out
the table. The heavy crockery with which it was set was beginning to
turn yellow and the cutlery was scratched and grimed with grease. Each
time a waiter came through the swinging doors from the kitchen a whiff
of odorous burnt lard came with him.

"Don't all talk at once," said Boche, as everyone remained silent with
his nose in his plate.

They were drinking the first glass of wine as their eyes followed two
meat pies which the waiters were handing round when My-Boots entered
the room.

"Well, you're a scurvy lot, you people!" said he. "I've been wearing
my pins out for three hours waiting on that road, and a gendarme even
came and asked me for my papers. It isn't right to play such dirty
tricks on a friend! You might at least have sent me word by a
commissionaire. Ah! no, you know, joking apart, it's too bad. And with
all that, it rained so hard that I got my pickets full of water. Honor
bright, you might still catch enough fish in 'em for a meal."

The others wriggled with laughter. That animal My-Boots was just a bit
on; he had certainly already stowed away his two quarts of wine,
merely to prevent his being bothered by all that frog's liquor with
which the storm had deluged his limbs.

"Hallo! Count Leg-of-Mutton!" said Coupeau, "just go and sit yourself
there, beside Madame Gaudron. You see you were expected."

Oh, he did not mind, he would soon catch the others up; and he asked
for three helpings of soup, platefuls of vermicelli, in which he
soaked enormous slices of bread. Then, when they had attacked the meat
pies, he became the profound admiration of everyone at the table. How
he stowed it away! The bewildered waiters helped each other to pass
him bread, thin slices which he swallowed at a mouthful. He ended by
losing his temper; he insisted on having a loaf placed on the table
beside him. The landlord, very anxious, came for a moment and looked
in at the door. The party, which was expecting him, again wriggled
with laughter. It seemed to upset the caterer. What a rum card he was
that My-Boots! One day he had eaten a dozen hard-boiled eggs and drank
a dozen glasses of wine while the clock was striking twelve! There are
not many who can do that. And Mademoiselle Remanjou, deeply moved,
watched My-Boots chew whilst Monsieur Madinier, seeking for a word to
express his almost respectful astonishment, declared that such a
capacity was extraordinary.

There was a brief silence. A waiter had just placed on the table a
ragout of rabbits in a vast dish as deep as a salad-bowl. Coupeau, who
liked fun, started another joke.

"I say, waiter, that rabbit's from the housetops. It still mews."

And in fact, a faint mew perfectly imitated seemed to issue from the
dish. It was Coupeau who did that with his throat, without opening his
lips; a talent which at all parties, met with decided success, so much
so that he never ordered a dinner abroad without having a rabbit
ragout. After that he purred. The ladies pressed their napkins to
their mouths to try and stop their laughter. Madame Fauconnier asked
for a head, she only liked that part. Mademoiselle Remanjou had a
weakness for the slices of bacon. And as Boche said he preferred the
little onions when they were nicely broiled, Madame Lerat screwed up
her lips, and murmured:

"I can understand that."

She was a dried up stick, living the cloistered life of a hard-working
woman imprisoned within her daily routine, who had never had a man
stick his nose into her room since the death of her husband; yet she
had an obsession with double meanings and indecent allusions that were
sometimes so far off the mark that only she understood them.

As Boche leaned toward her and, in a whisper, asked for an
explanation, she resumed:

"Little onions, why of course. That's quite enough, I think."

The general conversation was becoming grave. Each one was talking of
his trade. Monsieur Madinier raved about the cardboard business. There
were some real artists. For an example, he mentioned Christmas gift
boxes, of which he'd seen samples that were marvels of splendor.

Lorilleux sneered at this; he was extremely vain because of working
with gold, feeling that it gave a sort of sheen to his fingers and his
whole personality. "In olden times jewelers wore swords like
gentlemen." He often cited the case of Bernard Palissy, even though he
really knew nothing about him.

Coupeau told of a masterpiece of a weather vane made by one of his
fellow workers which included a Greek column, a sheaf of wheat, a
basket of fruit, and a flag, all beautifully worked out of nothing but
strips of zinc shaped and soldered together.

Madame Lerat showed Bibi-the-Smoker how to make a rose by rolling the
handle of her knife between her bony fingers.

All the while, their voices had been rising louder and louder,
competing for attention. Shrill comments by Madame Fauconnier were
heard. She complained about the girls who worked for her, especially a
little apprentice who was nothing but a tart and had badly scorched
some sheets the evening before.

"You may talk," Lorilleux cried, banging his fist down on the table,
"but gold is gold."

And, in the midst of the silence caused by the statement of this fact,
the only sound heard was Mademoiselle Remanjou's shrill voice
continuing:

"Then I turn up the skirt and stitch it inside. I stick a pin in the
head to keep the cap on, and that's all; and they are sold for
thirteen sous a piece."

She was explaining how she dressed her dolls to My-Boots, whose jaws
were working slowly like grindstones. He did not listen, though he
kept nodding his head, but looked after the waiters to prevent them
removing any of the dishes he had not cleaned out. They had now
finished a veal stew with green beans. The roast was brought in, two
scrawny chickens resting on a bed of water cress which was limp from
the warming oven.

Outside, only the higher branches of the acacias were touched by the
setting sun. Inside, the greenish reflected light was thickened by
wisps of steam rising from the table, now messy with spilled wine and
gravy and the debris of the dinner. Along the wall were dirty dishes
and empty bottles which the waiters had piled there like a heap of
refuse. It was so hot that the men took off their jackets and
continued eating in their shirt sleeves.

"Madame Boche, please don't spread their butter so thick," said
Gervaise, who spoke but little, and who was watching Claude and
Etienne from a distance.

She got up from her seat, and went and talked for a minute while
standing behind the little ones' chairs. Children did not reason; they
would eat all day long without refusing a single thing; and then she
herself helped them to some chicken, a little of the breast. But
mother Coupeau said they might, just for once in a while, risk an
attack of indigestion. Madame Boche, in a low voice accused Boche of
caressing Madame Lerat's knees. Oh, he was a sly one, but he was
getting a little too gay. She had certainly seen his hand disappear.
If he did it again, drat him! She wouldn't hesitate throwing a pitcher
of water over his head.

In the partial silence, Monsieur Madinier was talking politics. "Their
law of May 31, is an abominable one. Now you must reside in a place
for two years. Three millions of citizens are struck off the voting
lists. I've been told that Bonaparte is, in reality, very much annoyed
for he loves the people; he has given them proofs."

He was a republican; but he admired the prince on account of his
uncle, a man the like of whom would never be seen again. Bibi-the-
Smoker flew into a passion. He had worked at the Elysee; he had seen
Bonaparte just as he saw My-Boots in front of him over there. Well
that muff of a president was just like a jackass, that was all! It was
said that he was going to travel about in the direction of Lyons; it
would be a precious good riddance of bad rubbish if he fell into some
hole and broke his neck. But, as the discussion was becoming too
heated, Coupeau had to interfere.

"Ah, well! How simple you all are to quarrel about politics. Politics
are all humbug! Do such things exist for us? Let there be any one as
king, it won't prevent me earning my five francs a day, and eating and
sleeping; isn't that so? No, it's too stupid to argue about!"

Lorilleux shook his head. He was born on the same day as the Count of
Chambord, the 29th of September, 1820. He was greatly struck with this
coincidence, indulging himself in a vague dream, in which he
established a connection between the king's return to France and his
own private fortunes. He never said exactly what he was expecting, but
he led people to suppose that when that time arrived something
extraordinarily agreeable would happen to him. So whenever he had a
wish too great to be gratified, he would put it off to another time,
when the king came back.

"Besides," observed he, "I saw the Count de Chambord one evening."

Every face was turned towards him.

"It's quite true. A stout man, in an overcoat, and with a good-natured
air. I was at Pequignot's, one of my friends who deals in furniture in
the Grand Rue de la Chapelle. The Count of Chambord had forgotten his
umbrella there the day before; so he came in, and just simply said,
like this: 'Will you please return me my umbrella?' Well, yes, it was
him; Pequignot gave me his word of honor it was."

Not one of the guests suggested the smallest doubt. They had now
arrived at dessert and the waiters were clearing the table with much
clattering of dishes. Madame Lorilleux, who up to then had been very
genteel, very much the lady, suddenly let fly with a curse. One of the
waiters had spilled something wet down her neck while removing a dish.
This time her silk dress would be stained for sure. Monsieur Madinier
had to examine her back, but he swore there was nothing to be seen.

Two platters of cheese, two dishes of fruit, and a floating island
pudding of frosted eggs in a deep salad-bowl had now been placed along
the middle of the table. The pudding caused a moment of respectful
attention even though the overdone egg whites had flattened on the
yellow custard. It was unexpected and seemed very fancy.

My-Boots was still eating. He had asked for another loaf. He finished
what there was of the cheese; and, as there was some cream left, he
had the salad-bowl passed to him, into which he sliced some large
pieces of bread as though for a soup.

"The gentleman is really remarkable," said Monsieur Madinier, again
giving way to his admiration.

Then the men rose to get their pipes. They stood for a moment behind
My-Boots, patting him on the back, and asking him if he was feeling
better. Bibi-the-Smoker lifted him up in his chair; but /tonnerre de
Dieu!/ the animal had doubled in weight. Coupeau joked that My-Boots
was only getting started, that now he was going to settle down and
really eat for the rest of the night. The waiters were startled and
quickly vanished from sight.

Boche, who had gone downstairs for a moment, came up to report the
proprietor's reaction. He was standing behind his bar, pale as death.
His wife, dreadfully upset, was wondering if any bakeries were still
open. Even the cat seemed deep in despair. This was as funny as could
be, really worth the price of the dinner. It was impossible to have a
proper dinner party without My-Boots, the bottomless pit. The other
men eyed him with a brooding jealousy as they puffed on their pipes.
Indeed, to be able to eat so much, you had to be very solidly built!

"I wouldn't care to be obliged to support you," said Madame Gaudron.
"Ah, no; you may take my word for that!"

"I say, little mother, no jokes," replied My-Boots, casting a side
glance at his neighbor's rotund figure. "You've swallowed more than I
have."

The others applauded, shouting "Bravo!"--it was well answered. It was
now pitch dark outside, three gas-jets were flaring in the room,
diffusing dim rays in the midst of the tobacco-smoke. The waiters,
after serving the coffee and the brandy, had removed the last piles of
dirty plates. Down below, beneath the three acacias, dancing had
commenced, a cornet-a-piston and two fiddles playing very loud, and
mingling in the warm night air with the rather hoarse laughter of
women.

"We must have a punch!" cried My-Boots; "two quarts of brandy, lots of
lemon, and a little sugar."

But Coupeau, seeing the anxious look on Gervaise's face in front of
him, got up from the table, declaring that there should be no more
drink. They had emptied twenty-five quarts, a quart and a half to each
person, counting the children as grown-up people; that was already too
much. They had had a feed together in good fellowship, and without
ceremony, because they esteemed each other, and wished to celebrate
the event of the day amongst themselves. Everything had been very
nice; they had had lots of fun. It wouldn't do to get cockeyed drunk
now, out of respect to the ladies. That was all he had to say, they
had come together to toast a marriage and they had done so.

Coupeau delivered the little speech with convincing sincerity and
punctuated each phrase by placing his hand on his heart. He won whole-
hearted approval from Lorilleux and Monsieur Madinier; but the other
four men, especially My-Boots, were already well lit and sneered. They
declared in hoarse drunken voices that they were thirsty and wanted
drinks.

"Those who're thirsty are thirsty, and those who aren't thirsty aren't
thirsty," remarked My-Boots. "Therefore, we'll order the punch. No one
need take offence. The aristocrats can drink sugar-and-water."

And as the zinc-worker commenced another sermon, the other, who had
risen on his legs, gave himself a slap, exclaiming:

"Come, let's have no more of that, my boy! Waiter, two quarts of your
aged stuff!"

So Coupeau said very well, only they would settle for the dinner at
once. It would prevent any disputes. The well-behaved people did not
want to pay for the drunkards; and it just happened that My-Boots,
after searching in his pockets for a long time, could only produce
three francs and seven sous. Well, why had they made him wait all that
time on the Route de Saint-Denis? He could not let himself be drowned
and so he had broken into his five-franc piece. It was the fault of
the others, that was all! He ended by giving the three francs, keeping
the seven sous for the morrow's tobacco. Coupeau, who was furious,
would have knocked him over had not Gervaise, greatly frightened,
pulled him by his coat, and begged him to keep cool. He decided to
borrow the two francs of Lorilleux, who after refusing them, lent them
on the sly, for his wife would never have consented to his doing so.

Monsieur Madinier went round with a plate. The spinster and the ladies
who were alone--Madame Lerat, Madame Fauconnier, Mademoiselle Remanjou
--discreetly placed their five-franc pieces in it first. Then the
gentlemen went to the other end of the room, and made up the accounts.
They were fifteen; it amounted therefore to seventy-five francs. When
the seventy-five francs were in the plate, each man added five sous
for the waiters. It took a quarter of an hour of laborious
calculations before everything was settled to the general
satisfaction.

But when Monsieur Madinier, who wished to deal direct with the
landlord, had got him to step up, the whole party became lost in
astonishment on hearing him say with a smile that there was still
something due to him. There were some extras; and, as the word
"extras" was greeted with angry exclamations, he entered into details:
--Twenty-five quarts of wine, instead of twenty, the number agreed
upon beforehand; the frosted eggs, which he had added, as the dessert
was rather scanty; finally, a quarter of a bottle of rum, served with
the coffee, in case any one preferred rum. Then a formidable quarrel
ensued. Coupeau, who was appealed to, protested against everything; he
had never mentioned twenty quarts; as for the frosted eggs, they were
included in the dessert, so much the worse for the landlord if he
choose to add them without being asked to do so. There remained the
rum, a mere nothing, just a mode of increasing the bill by putting on
the table spirits that no one thought anything about.

"It was on the tray with the coffee," he cried; "therefore it goes
with the coffee. Go to the deuce! Take your money, and never again
will we set foot in your den!"

"It's six francs more," repeated the landlord. "Pay me my six francs;
and with all that I haven't counted the four loaves that gentleman
ate!"

The whole party, pressing forward, surrounded him with furious
gestures and a yelping of voices choking with rage. The women
especially threw aside all reserve, and refused to add another
centime. This was some wedding dinner! Mademoiselle Remanjou vowed she
would never again attend such a party. Madame Fauconnier declared she
had had a very disappointing meal; at home she could have had a
finger-licking dish for only two francs. Madame Gaudron bitterly
complained that she had been shoved down to the worst end of the table
next to My-Boots who had ignored her. These parties never turned out
well, one should be more careful whom one invites. Gervaise had taken
refuge with mother Coupeau near one of the windows, feeling shamed as
she realized that all these recriminations would fall back upon her.

Monsieur Madinier ended by going down with the landlord. One could
hear them arguing below. Then, when half an hour had gone by the
cardboard box manufacturer returned; he had settled the matter by
giving three francs. But the party continued annoyed and exasperated,
constantly returning to the question of the extras. And the uproar
increased from an act of vigor on Madame Boche's part. She had kept
an eye on Boche, and at length detected him squeezing Madame Lerat
round the waist in a corner. Then, with all her strength, she flung a
water pitcher, which smashed against the wall.

"One can easily see that your husband's a tailor, madame," said the
tall widow, with a curl of the lip, full of a double meaning. "He's a
petticoat specialist, even though I gave him some pretty hard kicks
under the table."

The harmony of the evening was altogether upset. Everyone became more
and more ill-tempered. Monsieur Madinier suggested some singing, but
Bibi-the-Smoker, who had a fine voice, had disappeared some time
before; and Mademoiselle Remanjou, who was leaning out of the window,
caught sight of him under the acacias, swinging round a big girl who
was bare-headed. The cornet-a-piston and two fiddles were playing "/Le
Marchand de Moutarde/." The party now began to break up. My-Boots and
the Gaudrons went down to the dance with Boche sneaking along after
them. The twirling couples could be seen from the windows. The night
was still as though exhausted from the heat of the day. A serious
conversation started between Lorilleux and Monsieur Madinier. The
ladies examined their dresses carefully to see if they had been
stained.

Madame Lerat's fringe looked as though it had been dipped in the
coffee. Madame Fauconnier's chintz dress was spotted with gravy.
Mother Coupeau's green shawl, fallen from off a chair, was discovered
in a corner, rolled up and trodden upon. But it was Madame Lorilleux
especially who became more ill-tempered still. She had a stain on the
back of her dress; it was useless for the others to declare that she
had not--she felt it. And, by twisting herself about in front of a
looking-glass, she ended by catching a glimpse of it.

"What did I say?" cried she. "It's gravy from the fowl. The waiter
shall pay for the dress. I will bring an action against him. Ah! this
is a fit ending to such a day. I should have done better to have
stayed in bed. To begin with, I'm off. I've had enough of their
wretched wedding!"

And she left the room in a rage, causing the staircase to shake
beneath her heavy footsteps. Lorilleux ran after her. But all she
would consent to was that she would wait five minutes on the pavement
outside, if he wanted them to go off together. She ought to have left
directly after the storm, as she wished to do. She would make Coupeau
sorry for that day. Coupeau was dismayed when he heard how angry she
was. Gervaise agreed to leave at once to avoid embarrassing him any
more.

There was a flurry of quick good-night kisses. Monsieur Madinier was
to escort mother Coupeau home. Madame Boche would take Claude and
Etienne with her for the bridal night. The children were sound asleep
on chairs, stuffed full from the dinner. Just as the bridal couple and
Lorilleux were about to go out the door, a quarrel broke out near the
dance floor between their group and another group. Boche and My-Boots
were kissing a lady and wouldn't give her up to her escorts, two
soldiers.

It was scarcely eleven o'clock. On the Boulevard de la Chapelle, and
in the entire neighborhood of the Goutte-d'Or, the fortnight's pay,
which fell due on that Saturday, produced an enormous drunken uproar.
Madame Lorilleux was waiting beneath a gas-lamp about twenty paces
from the Silver Windmill. She took her husband's arm, and walked on in
front without looking round, at such a rate, that Gervaise and Coupeau
got quite out of breath in trying to keep up with them. Now and again
they stepped off the pavement to leave room for some drunkard who had
fallen there. Lorilleux looked back, endeavoring to make things
pleasant.

"We will see you as far as your door," said he.

But Madame Lorilleux, raising her voice, thought it a funny thing to
spend one's wedding night in such a filthy hole as the Hotel Boncoeur.
Ought they not to have put their mar