 a son."

"And where is he?  Does he live with you?"

"He's in prison."  The mother suddenly felt a calm pride in these
words, usually painful to her.  "This is the second time--all
because he came to understand God's truth and sowed it openly
without sparing himself.  He's a young man, handsome, intelligent;
he planned a newspaper, and gave Mikhail Ivanovich a start on his
way, although he's only half of Mikhail's age.  Now they're going
to try my son for all this, and sentence him; and he'll escape from
Siberia and continue with his work."

Her pride waxed as she spoke.  It created the image of a hero, and
demanded expression in words.  The mother needed an offset--
something fine and bright--to balance the gloomy incident she had
witnessed that day, with its senseless horror and shameless cruelty.
Instinctively yielding to this demand of a healthy soul, she reached
out for everything she had seen that was pure and shining and heaped
it into one dazzling, cleansing fire.

"Many such people have already been born, more and more are being
born, and they will all stand up for the freedom of the people,
for the truth, to the very end of their lives."

She forgot precaution, and although she did not mention names, she
told everything known to her of the secret work for the emancipation
of the people from the chains of greed.  In depicting the personalities
she put all her force into her words, all the abundance of love
awakened in her so late by her rousing experiences.  And she herself
became warmly enamored of the images rising up in her memory, illumined
and beautified by her feeling.

"The common cause advances throughout the world in all the cities.
There's no measuring the power of the good people.  It keeps growing
and growing, and it will grow until the hour of our victory, until
the resurrection of truth."

Her voice flowed on evenly, the words came to her readily, and she
quickly strung them, like bright, varicolored beads, on strong
threads of her desire to cleanse her heart of the blood and filth
of that day.  She saw that the three people were as if rooted to
the spot where her speech found them, and that they looked at her
without stirring.  She heard the intermittent breathing of the woman
sitting by her side, and all this magnified the power of her faith
in what she said, and in what she promised these people.

"All those who have a hard life, whom want and injustice crush--it's
the rich and the servitors of the rich who have overpowered them.
The whole people ought to go out to meet those who perish in the
dungeons for them, and endure mortal torture.  Without gain to
themselves they show where the road to happiness for all people
lies.  They frankly admit it is a hard road, and they force no one
to follow them.  But once you take your position by their side you
will never leave them.  You will see it is the true, the right road.
With such persons the people may travel.  Such persons will not be
reconciled to small achievements; they will not stop until they will
vanquish all deceit, all evil and greed.  They will not fold their
hands until the people are welded into one soul, until the people
will say in one voice:  'I am the ruler, and I myself will make
the laws equal for all.'"

She ceased from exhaustion, and looked about.  Her words would not
be wasted here, she felt assured.  The silence lasted for a minute,
while the peasants regarded her as if expecting more.  Pyotr stood
in the middle of the hut, his hands clasped behind his back, his
eyes screwed up, a smile quivering on his freckled face.  Stepan was
leaning one hand on the table; with his neck and entire body forward,
he seemed still to be listening.  A shadow on his face gave it more
finish.  His wife, sitting beside the mother, bent over, her elbows
on her knees, and studied her feet.

"That's how it is," whispered Pyotr, and carefully sat on the bench,
shaking his head.

Stepan slowly straightened himself, looked at his wife, and threw
his hands in the air, as if grasping for something.

"If a man takes up this work," he began thoughtfully in a moderated
voice, "then his entire soul is needed."

Pyotr timidly assented:

"Yes, he mustn't look back."

"The work has spread very widely," continued Stepan.

"Over the whole earth," added Pyotr.

They both spoke like men walking in darkness, groping for the way
with their feet.  The mother leaned against the wall, and throwing
back her head listened to their careful utterances.  Tatyana arose,
looked around, and sat down again.  Her green eyes gleamed dryly as
she looked into the peasants' faces with dissatisfaction and contempt.

"It seems you've been through a lot of misery," she said, suddenly
turning to the mother.

"I have."

"You speak well.  You draw--you draw the heart after your talk.
It makes me think, it makes me think, 'God!  If I could only take
a peep at such people and at life through a chink!'  How does one
live?  What life has one?  The life of sheep.  Here am I; I can
read and write; I read books, I think a whole lot.  Sometimes I
don't even sleep the entire night because I think.  And what sense
is there in it?  If I don't think, my existence is a purposeless
existence; and if I do, it is also purposeless.  And everything
seems purposeless.  There are the peasants, who work and tremble
over a piece of bread for their homes, and they have nothing.  It
hurts them, enrages them; they drink, fight, and work again--work,
work, work.  But what comes of it?  Nothing."

She spoke with scorn in her eyes and in her voice, which was low and
even, but at times broke off like a taut thread overstrained.  The
peasants were silent,, the wind glided by the window panes, buzzed
through the straw of the roofs, and at times whined softly down the
chimney.  A dog barked, and occasional drops of rain pattered on the
window.  Suddenly the light flared in the lamp, dimmed, but in a
second sprang up again even and bright.

"I listened to your talk, and I see what people live for now.  It's
so strange--I hear you, and I think, 'Why, I know all this.'  And
yet, until you said it, I hadn't heard such things, and I had no
such thoughts.  Yes."

"I think we ought to take something to eat, and put out the lamp,"
said Stepan, somberly and slowly.  "People will notice that at the
Chumakovs' the light burned late.  It's nothing for us, but, it
might turn out bad for the guest."

Tatyana arose and walked to the oven.

"Ye-es," Pyotr said softly, with a smile.  "Now, friend, keep your
ears pricked.  When the papers appear among the people----"

"I'm not speaking of myself.  If they arrest me, it's no great matter."

The wife came up to the table and asked Stepan to make room.

He arose and watched her spread the table as he stood to one side.

"The price of fellows of our kind is a nickel a bundle, a hundred
in a bundle," he said with a smile.

The mother suddenly pitied him.  He now pleased her more.

"You don't judge right, host," she said.  "A man mustn't agree to
the price put upon him by people from the outside, who need nothing
of him except his blood.  You, knowing yourself within, must put
your own estimate on yourself--your price, not for your enemies,
but for your friends."

"What friends have we?" the peasant exclaimed softly.  "Up to the
first piece of bread."

"And I say that the people have friends."

"Yes, they have, but not here--that's the trouble," Stepan deliberated.

"Well, then create them here."

Stepan reflected a while.  "We'll try."

"Sit down at the table," Tatyana invited her.

At supper, Pyotr, who had been subdued by the talk of the mother and
appeared to be at a loss, began to speak again with animation:

"Mother, you ought to get out of here as soon as possible, to escape
notice.  Go to the next station, not to the city--hire the post horses."

"Why?  I'm going to see her off!" said Stepan.

"You mustn't.  In case anything happens and they ask you whether
she slept in your house--'She did.'  'When did she go?'  'I saw her
off.'  'Aha!  You did?  Please come to prison!'  Do you understand?
And no one ought to be in a hurry to get into prison; everybody's
turn will come.  'Even the Czar will die,' as the saying goes.  But
the other way:  she simply spent the night in your house, hired
horses, and went away.  And what of it?  Somebody passing through the
village sleeps with somebody in the village.  There's nothing in that."

"Where did you learn to be afraid, Pyotr?" Tatyana scoffed.

"A man must know everything, friend!" Pyotr exclaimed, striking his
knee--"know how to fear, know how to be brave.  You remember how a
policeman lashed Vaganov for that newspaper?  Now you'll not persuade
Vaganov for any amount of money to take a book in his hand.  Yes;
you believe me, mother, I'm a sharp fellow for every sort of a trick
--everybody knows it.  I'm going to scatter these books and papers
for you in the best shape and form, as much as you please.  Of course,
the people here are not educated; they've been intimidated.  However,
the times squeeze a man and wide open go his eyes, 'What's the matter?'
And the book answers him in a perfectly simple way:  'That's what's
the matter--Think!  Unite!  Nothing else is left for you to do!'
There are examples of men who can't read or write and can understand
more than the educated ones--especially if the educated ones have
their stomachs full.  I go about here everywhere; I see much.  Well?
It's possible to live; but you want brains and a lot of cleverness
in order not to sit down in the cesspool at once.  The authorities,
too, smell a rat, as though a cold wind were blowing on them from
the peasants.  They see the peasant smiles very little, and altogether
is not very kindly disposed and wants to disaccustom himself to the
authorities.  The other day in Smolyakov, a village not far from here,
they came to extort the taxes; and your peasants got stubborn and
flew into a passion.  The police commissioner said straight out:
'Oh, you damned scoundrels! why, this is disobedience to the Czar!'
There was one little peasant there, Spivakin, and says he:  'Off
with you to the  evil mother with your Czar!  What kind of a Czar
is he if he pulls the last shirt off your body?'  That's how far
it went, mother.  Of course, they snatched Spivakin off to prison.
But the word remained, and even the little boys know it.  It lives!
It shouts!  And perhaps in our days the word is worth more than a
man.  People are stupefied and deadened by their absorption in
breadwinning.  Yes."

Pyotr did not eat, but kept on talking in a quick whisper, his dark,
roguish eyes gleaming merrily.  He lavishly scattered before the
mother innumerable little observations on the village life--they
rolled from him like copper coins from a full purse.

Stepan several times reminded him:  "Why don't you eat?"  Pyotr
would then seize a piece of bread and a spoon and fall to talking
and sputtering again like a goldfinch.  Finally, after the meal, he
jumped to his feet and announced:

"Well, it's time for me to go home.  Good-by, mother!" and he shook
her hand and nodded his head.  "Maybe we shall never see each other
again.  I must say to you that all this is very good--to meet you
and hear your speeches--very good!  Is there anything in your valise
beside the printed matter?  A shawl?  Excellent!  A shawl, remember,
Stepan.  He'll bring you the valise at once.  Come, Stepan.  Good-by.
I wish everything good to you."

After he had gone the crawling sound of the roaches became audible
in the hut, the blowing of the wind over the roof and its knocking
against the door in the chimney.  A fine rain dripped monotonously
on the window.  Tatyana prepared a bed for the mother on the bench
with clothing brought from the oven and the storeroom.

"A lively man!" remarked the mother.

The hostess looked at her sidewise.

"A light fellow," she answered.  "He rattles on and rattles on;
you can't but hear the rattling at a great distance."

"And how is your husband?" asked the mother.

"So so.  A good peasant; he doesn't drink; we live peacefully.
So so.  Only he has a weak character."  She straightened herself,
and after a pause asked:

"Why, what is it that's wanted nowadays?  What's wanted is that the
people should be stirred up to revolt.  Of course!  Everybody thinks
about it, but privately, for himself.  And what's necessary is that he
should speak out aloud.  Some one person must be the first to decide
to do it."  She sat down on the bench and suddenly asked:  "Tell me,
do young ladies also occupy themselves with this?  Do they go about
with the workingmen and read?  Aren't they squeamish and afraid?"  She
listened attentively to the mother's reply and fetched a deep sigh;
then drooping her eyelids and inclining her head, she said:  "In one
book I read the words 'senseless life.'  I understood them very well
at once.  I know such a life.  Thoughts there are, but they're not
connected, and they stray like stupid sheep without a shepherd.  They
stray and stray, with no one to bring them together.  There's no
understanding in people of what must be done.  That's what a
senseless life is.  I'd like to run away from it without even looking
around--such a severe pang one suffers when one understands something!"

The mother perceived the pang in the dry gleam of the woman's green eyes,
in her wizened face, in her voice.  She wanted to pet and soothe her.

"You understand, my dear, what to do----"

Tatyana interrupted her softly:

"A person must be able--  The bed's ready for you.  Lie down and sleep."

She went over to the oven and remained standing there erect, in
silence, sternly centered in herself.  The mother lay down without
undressing.  She began to feel the weariness in her bones and
groaned softly.  Tatyana walked up to the table, extinguished the
lamp, and when darkness descended on the hut she resumed speech in
her low, even voice, which seemed to erase something from the flat
face of the oppressive darkness.

"You do not pray?  I, too, think there is no God, there are no miracles.
All these things were contrived to frighten us, to make us stupid."

The mother turned about on the bench uneasily; the dense darkness
looked straight at her from the window, and the scarcely audible
crawling of the roaches persistently disturbed the quiet.  She began
to speak almost in a whisper and fearfully:

"In regard to God, I don't know; but I do believe in Christ, in
the Little Father.  I believe in his words, 'Love thy neighbor as
thyself.'  Yes, I believe in them."  And suddenly she asked in
perplexity:  "But if there is a God, why did He withdraw his good
power from us?  Why did He allow the division of people into two
worlds?  Why, if He is merciful, does He permit human torture--the
mockery of one man by another, all kinds of evil and beastliness?"

Tatyana was silent.  In the darkness the mother saw the faint
outline of her straight figure--gray on the black background.  She
stood motionless.  The mother closed her eyes in anguish.  Then
the groaning, cold voice sullenly broke in upon the stillness again:

"The death of my children I will never forgive, neither God nor man--
I will never forgive--NEVER!"

Nilovna uneasily rose from her bed; her heart understood the mightiness
of the pain that evoked such words.

"You are young; you will still have children," she said kindly.

The woman did not answer immediately.  Then she whispered:

"No, no.  I'm spoiled.  The doctor says I'll never be able to have
a child again."

A mouse ran across the floor, something cracked--a flash of sound
flaring up in the noiselessness.  The autumn rain again rustled on
the thatch like light thin fingers running over the roof.  Large
drops of water dismally fell to the ground, marking the slow course
of the autumn night.  Hollow steps on the street, then on the porch,
awoke the mother from a heavy slumber.  The door opened carefully.

"Tatyana!" came the low call.  "Are you in bed already?"

"No."

"Is she asleep?"

"It seems she is."

A light flared up, trembled, and sank into the darkness.

The peasant walked over to the mother's bed, adjusted the sheepskin
over her, and wrapped up her feet.  The attention touched the mother
in its simplicity.  She closed her eyes again and smiled.  Stepan
undressed in silence, crept up to the loft, and all became quiet.



CHAPTER XII


The mother lay motionless, with ears strained in the drowsy
stillness, and before her in the darkness wavered Rybin's face
covered with blood.  In the loft a dry whisper could be heard.

"You see what sort of people go into this work?  Even elderly people
who have drunk the cup of misery to the bottom, who have worked, and
for whom it is time to rest.  And there they are!  But you are young,
sensible! Ah, Stepan!"

The thick, moist voice of the peasant responded:

"Such an affair--you mustn't take it up without thinking over it.
Just wait a little while!"

"I've heard you say so before."  The sounds dropped, and rose again.
The voice of Stepan rang out:

"You must do it this way--at first you must take each peasant aside
and speak to him by himself--for instance, to Makov Alesha, a lively
man--can read and write--was wronged by the police; Shorin Sergey,
also a sensible peasant; Knyazev, an honest, bold man, and that'll
do to begin with.  Then we'll get a group together, we look about
us--yes.  We must learn how to find her; and we ourselves must take
a look at the people about whom she spoke.  I'll shoulder my ax and
go off to the city myself, making out I'm going there to earn money
by splitting wood.  You must proceed carefully in this matter.  She's
right when she says that the price a man has is according to his own
estimate of himself--and this is an affair in which you must set a
high value on yourself when once you take it up.  There's  that
peasant!  See!  You can put him even before God, not to speak of
before a police commissioner.  He won't yield.  He stands for his own
firmly--up to his knees in it.  And Nikita, why his honor was suddenly
pricked--a marvel?  No.  If the people will set out in a friendly
way to do something together, they'll draw everybody after them."

"Friendly!  They beat a man in front of your eyes, and you stand
with your mouths wide open."

"You just wait a little while.  He ought to thank God we didn't beat
him ourselves, that man.  Yes, indeed.  Sometimes the authorities
compel you to beat, and you do beat.  Maybe you weep inside yourself
with pity, but still you beat.  People don't dare to decline from
beastliness--they'll be killed themselves for it.  They command you,
'Be what I want you to be--a wolf, a pig'--but to be a man is
prohibited.  And a bold man they'll get rid of--send to the next
world.  No.  You must contrive for many to get bold at once, and
for all to arise suddenly."

He whispered for a long time, now lowering his voice so that the
mother scarcely could hear, and now bursting forth powerfully.
Then the woman would stop him.  "S-sh, you'll wake her."

The mother fell into a heavy dreamless sleep.

Tatyana awakened her in the early twilight, when the dusk still
peered through the window with blank eyes, and when brazen sounds
of the church bell floated and melted over the village in the gray,
cold stillness.

"I have prepared the samovar.  Take some tea or you'll be cold if
you go out immediately after getting up."

Stepan, combing his tangled beard, asked the mother solicitously
how to find her in the city.  To-day the peasant's face seemed
more finished to her.  While they drank tea he remarked, smiling:

"How wonderfully things happen!"

"What?" asked Tatyana.

"Why, this acquaintance--so simply."

The mother said thoughtfully, but confidently:

"In this affair there's a marvelous simplicity in everything."

The host and hostess restrained themselves from demonstrativeness
in parting with her; they were sparing of words, but lavish in little
attentions for her comfort.

Sitting in the post, the mother reflected that this peasant would
begin to work carefully, noiselessly, like a mole, without cease,
and that at his side the discontented voice of his wife would always
sound, and the dry burning gleam in her green eyes would never die
out of her so long as she cherished the revengeful wolfish anguish
of a mother for lost children.

The mother recalled Rybin--his blood, his face, his burning eyes,
his words.  Her heart was compressed again with a bitter feeling
of impotence; and along the entire road to the city the powerful
figure of black-bearded Mikhail with his torn shirt, his hands
bound behind his back, his disheveled head, clothed in wrath and
faith in his truth, stood out before her on the drab background of
the gray day.  And as she regarded the figure, she thought of the
numberless villages timidly pressed to the ground; of the people,
faint-heartedly and secretly awaiting the coming of truth; and of
the thousands of people who senselessly and silently work their
whole lifetime without awaiting the coming of anything.

Life represented itself to her as an unplowed, hilly field which
mutely awaits the workers and promises a harvest to free and honest
hands:  "Fertilize me with seeds of reason and truth; I will return
them to you a hundredfold."

When from afar she saw the roofs and spires of the city, a warm joy
animated and eased her perturbed, worn heart.  The preoccupied faces
of those people flashed up in her memory who, from day to day,
without cease, in perfect confidence kindle the fire of thought
and scatter the sparks over the whole earth.  Her soul was flooded
by the serene desire to give these people her entire force, and--
doubly the love of a mother, awakened and animated by their thoughts.

At home Nikolay opened the door for the mother.  He was disheveled
and held a book in his hand.

"Already?" he exclaimed joyfully.  "You've returned very quickly.
Well, I'm glad, very glad."

His eyes blinked kindly and briskly behind his glasses.  He quickly
helped her off with her wraps, and said with an affectionate smile:

"And here in my place, as you see, there was a search last night.
And I wondered what the reason for it could possibly be--whether
something hadn't happened to you.  But you were not arrested.  If
they had arrested you they wouldn't have let me go either."

He led her into the dining room, and continued with animation:
"However, they suggested that I should be discharged from my
position.  That doesn't distress me.  I was sick, anyway, of
counting the number of horseless peasants, and ashamed to receive
money for it, too; for the money actually comes from them.  It
would have been awkward for me to leave the position of my own
accord.  I am under obligations to the comrades in regard to work.
And now the matter has found its own solution.  I'm satisfied!"

The mother sat down and looked around.  One would have supposed
that some powerful man in a stupid fit of insolence had knocked
the walls of the house from the outside until everything inside
had been jolted down.  The portraits were scattered on the floor;
the wall paper was torn away and stuck out in tufts; a board was
pulled out of the flooring; a window sill was ripped away; the
floor by the oven was strewn with ashes.  The mother shook her
head at the sight of this familiar picture.

"They wanted to show that they don't get money for nothing,"
remarked Nikolay.

On the table stood a cold samovar, unwashed dishes, sausages, and
cheese on paper, along with plates, crumbs of bread, books, and
coals from the samovar.  The mother smiled.  Nikolay also laughed
in embarrassment, following the look of her eyes.

"It was I who didn't waste time in completing the picture of the
upset.  But never mind, Nilovna, never mind!  I think they're going
to come again.  That's the reason I didn't pick it all up.  Well,
how was your trip?"

The mother started at the question.  Rybin arose before her; she felt
guilty at not having told of him immediately.  Bending over a chair,
she moved up to Nikolay and began her narrative.  She tried to preserve
her calm in order not to omit something as a result of excitement.

"They caught him!"

A quiver shot across Nikolay's face.

"They did?  How?"

The mother stopped his questions with a gesture of her hand, and
continued as if she were sitting before the very face of justice
and bringing in a complaint regarding the torture of a man.  Nikolay
threw himself back in his chair, grew pale, and listened, biting
his lips.  He slowly removed his glasses, put them on the table,
and ran his hand over his face as if wiping away invisible cobwebs.
The mother had never seen him wear so austere an expression.

When she concluded he arose, and for a minute paced the floor in
silence, his fists thrust deep into his pockets.  Conquering his
agitation he looked almost calmly with a hard gleam in his eyes
into the face of the mother, which was covered with silent tears.

"Nilovna, we mustn't waste time!  Let us try, dear comrade, to take
ourselves in hand."  Then he remarked through his teeth:

"He must be a remarkable fellow--such nobility!  It'll be hard for
him in prison.  Men like him feel unhappy there."  Stepping in front
of the mother he exclaimed in a ringing voice:  "Of course, all the
commissioners and sergeants are nothings.  They are sticks in the
hands of a clever villain, a trainer of animals.  But I would kill
an animal for allowing itself to be turned into a brute!"  He
restrained his excitement, which, however, made itself felt to the
mother's perceptions.  Again he strode through the room, and spoke
in wrath:  "See what horror!  A gang of stupid people, protesting
their pernicious power over the people, beat, stifle, oppress
everybody.  Savagery grows apace; cruelty becomes the law of life.
A whole nation is depraved.  Think of it!  One part beats and turns
brute; from immunity to punishment, sickens itself with a voluptuous
greed of torture--that disgusting disease of slaves licensed to
display all the power of slavish feelings and cattle habits.  Others
are poisoned with the desire for vengeance.  Still others, beaten
down to stupidity, become dumb and blind.  They deprave the nation,
the whole nation!"  He stopped, leaning his elbows against the
doorpost.  He clasped his head in both hands, and was silent,
his teeth set.

"You involuntarily turn a beast yourself in this beastly life!"

Smiling sadly, he walked up to her, and bending over her asked,
pressing her hand:  "Where is your valise?"

"In the kitchen."

"A spy is standing at our gate.  We won't be able to get such a big
mass of papers out of the way unnoticed.  There's no place to hide
them in and I think they'll come again to-night.  I don't want you
to be arrested.  So, however sorry we may be for the lost labor,
let's burn the papers."

"What?"

"Everything in the valise!"

She finally understood; and though sad, her pride in her success
brought a complacent smile to her face.

"There's nothing in it--no leaflets."  With gradually increasing
animation she told how she had placed them in the hands of sympathetic
peasants after Rybin's departure.  Nikolay listened, at first with
an uneasy frown, then in surprise, and finally exclaimed, interrupting
her story:

"Say, that's capital!  Nilovna, do you know--"  He stammered,
embarrassed, and pressing her hand, exclaimed quietly:  "You touch
me so by your faith in people, by your faith in the cause of their
emancipation!  You have such a good soul!  I simply love you as I
didn't love my own mother!"

Embracing his neck, she burst into happy sobs, and pressed his head
to her lips.

"Maybe," he muttered, agitated and embarrassed by the newness of
his feeling, "maybe I'm speaking nonsense; but, upon my honest word,
you are a beautiful person, Nilovna--yes!"

"My darling, I love you, too; and I love you all with my whole soul,
every drop of my blood!" she said, choking with a wave of hot joy.

The two voices blended into one throbbing speech, subdued and
pulsating with the great feeling that was seizing the people.

"Such a large, soft power is in you; it draws the heart toward you
imperceptibly.  How brightly you describe people!  How well you see them!"

"I see your life; I understand it, my dear!"

"One loves you.  And it's such a marvelous thing to love a person--
it's so good, you know!"

"It is you, you who raise the people from the dead to life again;
you!" the mother whispered hotly, stroking his head.  "My dear, I
think I see there's much work for you, much patience needed.  Your
power must not be wasted.  It's so necessary for life.  Listen to what
else happened:  there was a woman there, the wife of that man----"

Nikolay sat near her, his happy face bent aside in embarrassment,
and stroked his hair.  But soon he turned around again, and looking
at the mother, listened greedily to her simple and clear story.

"A miracle!  Every possibility of your getting into prison and
suddenly--  Yes, it's evident that the peasants, too, are beginning
to stir.  After all, it's natural.  We ought to get special people
for the villages.  People!  We haven't enough--nowhere.  Life demands
hundreds of hands!"

"Now, if Pasha could be free--and Andriusha," said the mother softly.
Nikolay looked at her and drooped his head.

"You see, Nilovna, it'll be hard for you to hear; but I'll say it,
anyway--I know Pavel well; he won't leave prison.  He wants to be
tried; he wants to rise in all his height.  He won't give up a
trial, and he needn't either.  He will escape from Siberia."

The mother sighed and answered softly:

"Well, he knows what's best for the cause."

Nikolay quickly jumped to his feet, suddenly seized with joy again.

"Thank you, Nilovna!  I've just lived through a magnificent moment--
maybe the best moment of my life.  Thank you!  Now, come, let's give
each other a good, strong kiss!"

They embraced, looking into each other's eyes.  And they gave each
other firm, comradely kisses.

"That's good!" he said softly.

The mother unclasped her hands from about his neck and laughed
quietly and happily.

"Um!" said Nikolay the next minute.  "If your peasant there would
hurry up and come here!  You see, we must be sure to write a leaflet
about Rybin for the village.  It won't hurt him once he's come out
so boldly, and it will help the cause.  I'll surely do it to-day.
Liudmila will print it quickly.  But then arises the question--how
will it get to the village?"

"I'll take it!"

"No, thank you!" Nikolay exclaimed quietly.  "I'm wondering whether
Vyesovshchikov won't do for it.  Shall I speak to him?"

"Yes; suppose you try and instruct him."

"What'll I do then?"

"Don't worry!"

Nikolay sat down to write, while the mother put the table in order,
from time to time casting a look at him.  She saw how his pen
trembled in his hand.  It traveled along the paper in straight
lines.  Sometimes the skin on his neck quivered; he threw back his
head and shut his eyes.  All this moved her.

"Execute them!" she muttered under her breath.  "Don't pity the villains!"

"There!  It's ready!" he said, rising.  "Hide the paper somewhere on your
body.  But know that when the gendarmes come they'll search you, too!"

"The dogs take them!" she answered calmly.

In the evening Dr. Ivan Danilovich came.

"What's gotten into the authorities all of a sudden?" he said,
running about the room.  "There were seven searches last night.
Where's the patient?"

"He left yesterday.  To-day, you see, Saturday, he reads to working
people.  He couldn't bring it over himself to omit the reading."

"That's stupid--to sit at readings with a fractured skull!"

"I tried to prove it to him, but unsuccessfully."

"He wanted to do a bit of boasting before the comrades," observed
the mother.  "Look!  I've already shed my blood!"

The physician looked at her, made a fierce face, and said with set teeth:

"Ugh! ugh! you bloodthirsty person!"

"Well, Ivan, you've nothing to do here, and we're expecting guests.
Go away!  Nilovna, give him the paper."

"Another paper?"

"There, take it and give it to the printer."

"I've taken it; I'll deliver it.  Is that all?"

"That's all.  There's a spy at the gate."

"I noticed.  At my door, too.  Good-by!  Good-by, you fierce woman!
And do you know, friends, a squabble in a cemetery is a fine thing
after all!  The whole city's talking about it.  It stirs the people
up and compels them to think.  Your article on that subject was
excellent, and it came in time.  I always said that a good fight
is better than a bad peace."

"All right.  Go away now!"

"You're polite!  Let's shake hands, Nilovna.  And that fellow--
he certainly behaved stupidly.  Do you know where he lives?"

Nikolay gave him the address.

"I must go to him to-morrow.  He's a fine fellow, eh?"

"Very!"

"We must keep him alive; he has good brains.  It's from just such
fellows that the real proletarian intellectuals ought to grow up--
men to take our places when we leave for the region where evidently
there are no class antagonisms.  But, after all, who knows?"

"You've taken to chattering, Ivan."

"I feel happy, that's why.  Well, I'm going!  So you're expecting
prison?  I hope you get a good rest there!"

"Thank you, I'm not tired!"

The mother listened to their conversation.  Their solicitude in
regard to the workingmen was pleasant to her; and, as always, the
calm activity of these people which did not forsake them even before
the gates of the prison, astonished her.

After the physician left, Nikolay and the mother conversed quietly
while awaiting their evening visitors.  Then Nikolay told her at
length of his comrades living in exile; of those who had already
escaped and continued their work under assumed names.  The bare
walls of the room echoed the low sounds of his voice, as if listening
in incredulous amazement to the stories of modest heroes who
disinterestedly devoted all their powers to the great cause of liberty.

A shadow kindly enveloped the woman, warming her heart with love
for the unseen people, who in her imagination united into one huge
person, full of inexhaustible, manly force.  This giant slowly but
incessantly strides over the earth, cleansing it, laying bare before
the eyes of the people the simple and clear truth of life--the great
truth that raises humanity from the dead, welcomes all equally, and
promises all alike freedom from greed, from wickedness, and
falsehood, the three monsters which enslaved and intimidated the
whole world.  The image evoked in the mother's soul a feeling
similar to that with which she used to stand before an ikon.  After
she had offered her joyful, grateful prayer, the day had then seemed
lighter than the other days of her life.  Now she forgot those days.
But the feeling left by them had broadened, had become brighter and
better, had grown more deeply into her soul.  It was more keenly
alive and burned more luminously.

"But the gendarmes aren't coming!" Nikolay exclaimed suddenly,
interrupting his story.

The mother looked at him, and after a pause answered in vexation:

"Oh, well, let them go to the dogs!"

"Of course!  But it's time for you to go to bed, Nilovna.  You must
be desperately tired.  You're wonderfully strong, I must say.  So much
commotion and disturbance, and you live through it all so lightly.
Only your hair is turning gray very quickly.  Now go and rest."

They pressed each other's hand and parted.



CHAPTER XIII


The mother fell quickly into a calm sleep, and rose early in the
morning, awakened by a subdued tap at the kitchen door.  The knock
was incessant and patiently persistent.  It was still dark and
quiet, and the rapping broke in alarmingly on the stillness.
Dressing herself rapidly, she walked out into the kitchen, and
standing at the door asked:

"Who's there?"

"I," answered an unfamiliar voice.

"Who?"

"Open."  The quiet word was spoken in entreaty.

The mother lifted the hook, pushed the door with her foot, and
Ignaty entered, saying cheerfully:

"Well, so I'm not mistaken.  I'm at the right place."

He was spattered with mud up to his belt.  His face was gray, his
eyes fallen.

"We've gotten into trouble in our place," he whispered, locking
the door behind him.

"I know it."

The reply astonished the young man.  He blinked and asked:

"How?  Where from?"

She explained in a few rapid words, and asked:

"Did they take the other comrades, too?"

"They weren't there.  They had gone off to be recruited.  Five
were captured, including Rybin."

He snuffled and said, smiling:

"And I was left over.  I guess they're looking for me.  Let them
look.  I'm not going back there again, not for anything.  There
are other people there yet, some seven young men and a girl.  Never
mind!  They're all reliable."

"How did you find this place?"  The mother smiled.

The door from the room opened quietly.

"I?"  Seating himself on a bench and looking around, Ignaty exclaimed:
"They crawled up at night, straight to the tar works.  Well, a minute
before they came the forester ran up to us and knocked on the window.
'Look out, boys,' says he, 'they're coming on you.'"

He laughed softly, wiped his face with the flap of his coat, and
continued:

"Well, they can't stun Uncle Mikhail even with a hammer.  At once
he says to me, 'Ignaty, run away to the city, quick!  You remember
the elderly woman.'  And he himself writes a note.  'There, go!
Good-by, brother.'  He pushed me in the back.  I flung out of the
hut.  I scrambled along on all fours through the bushes, and I hear
them coming.  There must have been a lot of them.  You could hear
the rustling on all sides, the devils--like a moose around the tar
works.  I lay in the bushes.  They passed by me.  Then I rose and
off I went; and for two nights and a whole day I walked without
stopping.  My feet'll ache for a week."

He was evidently satisfied with himself.  A smile shone in his hazel
eyes.  His full red lips quivered.

"I'll set you up with some tea soon.  You wash yourself while I get
the samovar ready."

"I'll give you the note."  He raised his leg with difficulty, and
frowning and groaning put his foot on the bench and began to untie
the leg wrappings.

"I got frightened.  'Well,' thinks I, 'I'm a goner.'"

Nikolay appeared at the door.  Ignaty in embarrassment dropped his
foot to the floor and wanted to rise, but staggered and fell heavily
on the bench, catching himself with his hands.

"You sit still!" exclaimed the mother.

"How do you do, comrade?" said Nikolay, screwing up his eyes
good-naturedly and nodding his head.  "Allow me, I'll help you."

Kneeling on the floor in front of the peasant, he quickly unwound
the dirty, damp wrappings.

"Well!" the fellow exclaimed quietly, pulling back his foot and
blinking in astonishment.  He regarded the mother, who said, without
paying attention to his look:

"His legs ought to be rubbed down with alcohol."

"Of course!" said Nikolay.

Ignaty snorted in embarrassment.  Nikolay found the note, straightened
it out, looked at it, and handed the gray, crumpled piece of paper
to the mother.

"For you."

"Read it."

"'Mother, don't let the affair go without your attention.  Tell
the tall lady not to forget to have them write more for our cause,
I beg of you.  Good-by.  Rybin.'"

"My darling!" said the mother sadly.  "They've already seized him by
the throat, and he----"

Nikolay slowly dropped his hand holding the note.

"That's magnificent!" he said slowly and respectfully.  "It both
touches and teaches."

Ignaty looked at them, and quietly shook his bared feet with his
dirty hands.  The mother, covering her tearful face, walked up to
him with a basin of water, sat down on the floor, and stretched out
her hands to his feet.  But he quickly thrust them under the bench,
exclaiming in fright:

"What are you going to do?"

"Give me your foot, quick!"

"I'll bring the alcohol at once," said Nikolay.

The young man shoved his foot still farther under the bench and mumbled:

"What ARE you going to do?  It's not proper."

Then the mother silently unbared his other foot.  Ignaty's round
face lengthened in amazement.  He looked around helplessly with
his wide-open eyes.

"Why, it's going to tickle me!"

"You'll be able to bear it," answered the mother, beginning to wash
his feet.

Ignaty snorted aloud, and moving his neck awkwardly looked down
at her, comically drooping his under lip.

"And do you know," she said tremulously, "that they beat Mikhail
Ivanovich?"

"What?" the peasant exclaimed in fright.

"Yes; he had been beaten when they led him to the village, and in
Nikolsk the sergeant beat him, the police commissioner beat him in
the face and kicked him till he bled."  The mother became silent,
overwhelmed by her recollections.

"They can do it," said the peasant, lowering his brows sullenly.
His shoulders shook.  "That is, I fear them like the devils.  And
the peasants--didn't the peasants beat him?"

"One beat him.  The police commissioner ordered him to.  All the
others were so so--they even took his part.  'You mustn't beat him!'
they said."

"Um!  Yes, yes!  The peasants are beginning to realize where a man
stands, and for what he stands."

"There are sensible people there, too."

"Where can't you find sensible people?  Necessity!  They're everywhere;
but it's hard to get at them.  They hide themselves in chinks and
crevices, and suck their hearts out each one for himself.  Their
resolution isn't strong enough to make them gather into a group."

Nikolay brought a bottle of alcohol, put coals in the samovar, and
walked away silently.  Ignaty accompanied him with a curious look.

"A gentleman?"

"In this business there are no masters; they're all comrades!"

"It's strange to me," said Ignaty with a skeptical but embarrassed smile.

"What's strange?"

"This:  at one end they beat you in the face; at the other they wash
your feet.  Is there a middle of any kind?"

The door of the room was flung open and Nikolay, standing on the
threshold, said:

"And in the middle stand the people who lick the hands of those who
beat you in the face and suck the blood of those whose faces are
beaten.  That's the middle!"

Ignaty looked at him respectfully, and after a pause said:  "That's it!"

The mother sighed.  "Mikhail Ivanovich also always used to say,
'That's it!' like an ax blow."

"Nilovna, you're evidently tired.  Permit me--I----"

The peasant pulled his feet uneasily.

"That'll do;" said the mother, rising.  "Well, Ignaty, now wash yourself."

The young man arose, shifted his feet about, and stepped firmly
on the floor.

"They seem like new feet.  Thank you!  Many, many thanks!"

He drew a wry face, his lips trembled, and his eyes reddened.  After
a pause, during which he regarded the basin of black water, he
whispered softly:

"I don't even know how to thank you!"

Then they sat down to the table to drink tea.  And Ignaty soberly began:

"I was the distributor of literature, a very strong fellow at walking.
Uncle Mikhail gave me the job.  'Distribute!' says he; 'and if you
get caught you're alone.'"

"Do many people read?" asked Nikolay.

"All who can.  Even some of the rich read.  Of course, they don't
get it from us.  They'd clap us right into chains if they did!  They
understand that this is a slipknot for them in all ages."

"Why a slipknot?"

"What else!" exclaimed Ignaty in amazement.  "Why, the peasants are
themselves going to take the land from everyone else.  They'll wash
it out with their blood from under the gentry and the rich; that is
to say, they themselves are going to divide it, and divide it so
that there won't be masters or workingmen anymore.  How then?
What's the use of getting into a scrap if not for that?"

Ignaty even seemed to be offended.  He looked at Nikolay
mistrustfully and skeptically.  Nikolay smiled.

"Don't get angry," said the mother jokingly.

Nikolay thoughtfully exclaimed:

"How shall we get the leaflets about Rybin's arrest to the village?"
Ignaty grew attentive.

"I'll speak to Vyesovshchikov to-day."

"Is there a leaflet already?" asked Ignaty.

"Yes."

"Give it to me.  I'll take it."  Ignaty rubbed his hands at the
suggestion, his eyes flashing.  "I know where and how.  Let me."

The mother laughed quietly, without looking at him.

"Why, you're tired and afraid, and you said you'd never go there again!"

Ignaty smacked his lips and stroked his curly hair with his broad palm.

"I'm tired; I'll rest; and of course I'm afraid!"  His manner was
businesslike and calm.  "They beat a man until the blood comes, as
you yourself say--then who wants to be mutilated?  But I'll pull
through somehow at night.  Never mind!  Give me the leaflets; this
evening I'll get on the go."  He was silent, thought a while, his
eyebrows working.  "I'll go to the forest; I'll hide the literature,
and then I'll notify our fellows:  'Go get it.'  That's better.  If
I myself should distribute them I might fall into the hands of the
police, and it would be a pity for the leaflets.  You must act
carefully here.  There are not many such leaflets!"

"And how about your fear?" the mother observed again with a smile.
This curly-haired, robust fellow put her into a good humor by his
sincerity, which sounded in his every word, and shone from his
round, determined face.

"Fear is fear, and business is business!" he answered with a grin.
"Why are you laughing at me, eh?  You, too!  Why, isn't it natural
to be afraid in this matter?  Well, and if it's necessary a man'll
go into a fire.  Such an affair, it requires it."

"Ah, you, my child!"

Ignaty, embarrassed, smiled.  "Well, there you are--child!" he said.

Nikolay began to speak, all the time looking good-naturedly with
screwed-up eyes at the young peasant.

"You're not going there!"

"Then what'll I do?  Where am I to be?" Ignaty asked uneasily.

"Another fellow will go in place of you.  And you'll tell him in
detail what to do and how to do it."

"All right!" said Ignaty.  But his consent was not given at once,
and then only reluctantly.

"And for you we'll obtain a good passport and make you a forester."

The young fellow quickly threw back his head and asked uneasily:

"But if the peasants come there for wood, or there--in general--
what'll I do?  Bind them?  That doesn't suit me."

The mother laughed, and Nikolay, too.  This again confused and
vexed Ignaty.

"Don't be uneasy!" Nikolay soothed him.  "You won't have to bind
peasants.  You trust us."

"Well, well," said Ignaty, set at ease, smiling at Nikolay with
confidence and merriness in his eyes.  "If you could get me to
the factory.  There, they say, the fellows are mighty smart."

A fire seemed to be ever burning in his broad chest, unsteady as
yet, not confident in its own power.  It flashed brightly in his
eyes, forced out from within; but suddenly it would nearly expire
in fright and flicker behind the smoke of perplexed alarm and
embarrassment.

The mother rose from behind the table, and looking through the
window reflected:

"Ah, life!  Five times in the day you laugh and five times you weep.
All right.  Well, are you through, Ignaty?  Go to bed and sleep."

"But I don't want to."

"Go on, go on!"

"You're stern in this place.  Thank you for the tea, for the sugar,
for the kindness."

Lying down in the mother's bed he mumbled, scratching his head:

"Now everything'll smell of tar in your place.  Ah, it's all for
nothing all this--plain coddling!  I don't want to sleep.  You're
good people, yes.  It's more than I can understand--as if I'd gotten
a hundred thousand miles away from the village--how he hit it off
about the middle--and in the middle are the people who lick the
hands--of those who beat the faces--um, yes."

And suddenly he gave a loud short snore and dropped off to sleep,
with eyebrows raised high and half-open mouth.


Late at night he sat in a little room of a basement at a table
opposite Vyesovshchikov.  He said in a subdued tone, knitting his brows:

"On the middle window, four times."

"Four."

"At first three times like this"--he counted aloud as he tapped thrice
on the table with his forefinger.  "Then waiting a little, once again."

"I understand."

"A red-haired peasant will open the door for you, and will ask you
for the midwife.  You'll tell him, 'Yes, from the boss.'  Nothing
else.  He'll understand your business."

They sat with heads bent toward each other, both robust fellows,
conversing in half tones.  The mother, with her arms folded on her
bosom, stood at the table looking at them.  All the secret tricks
and passwords compelled her to smile inwardly as she thought, "Mere
children still."

A lamp burned on the wall, illuminating a dark spot of dampness and
pictures from journals.  On the floor old pails were lying around,
fragments of slate iron.  A large, bright star out in the high
darkness shone into the window.  The odor of mildew, paint, and damp
earth filled the room.

Ignaty was dressed in a thick autumn overcoat of shaggy material.
It pleased him; the mother observed how he stroked it admiringly
with the palm of his hand, how he looked at himself, clumsily
turning his powerful neck.  Her bosom beat tenderly with, "My dears,
my children, my own."

"There!" said Ignaty, rising.  "You'll remember, then?  First you
go to Muratov and ask for grandfather."

"I remember."

But Ignaty was still distrustful of Nikolay's memory, and reiterated
all the instructions, words, and signs, and finally extended his
hand to him, saying:

"That's all now.  Good-by, comrade.  Give my regards to them.  I'm
alive and strong.  The people there are good--you'll see."  He cast
a satisfied glance down at himself, stroked the overcoat, and asked
the mother, "Shall I go?"

"Can you find the way?"

"Yes.  Good-by, then, dear comrades."

He walked off, raising his shoulders high, thrusting out his chest,
with his new hat cocked to one side, and his hands deep in his
pockets in most dignified fashion.  On his forehead and temples his
bright, boyish curls danced gayly.

"There, now, I have work, too," said Vyesovshchikov, going over to
the mother quietly.  "I'm bored already--jumped out of prison--what
for?  My only occupation is hiding--and there I was learning.  Pavel
so pressed your brains--it was one pure delight.  And Andrey, too,
polished us fellows zealously.  Well, Nilovna, did you hear how they
decided in regard to the escape?  Will they arrange it?"

"They'll find out day after to-morrow," she repeated, sighing
involuntarily.  "One day still--day after to-morrow."

Laying his heavy hand on her shoulder, and bringing his face close
to hers, Nikolay said animatedly:

"You tell them, the older ones there--they'll listen to you.  Why,
it's very easy.  You just see for yourself.  There's the wall of the
prison near the lamp-post; opposite is an empty lot, on the left
the cemetery, on the right the streets--the city.  The lamplighter
goes to the lamppost; by day he cleans the lamp; he puts the ladder
against the wall, climbs up, screws hooks for a rope ladder onto the
top of the wall, lets the rope ladder down into the prison yard, and
off he goes.  There inside the walls they know the time when this
will be done, and will ask the criminals to arrange an uproar, or
they'll arrange it themselves, and those who need it will go up the
ladder over the wall--one, two, it's done.  And they calmly proceed
to the city because the chase throws itself first of all on the
vacant lot and the cemetery."

He gesticulated rapidly in front of the mother's face, drawing his
plan, the details of which were clear, simple, and clever.  She had
known him as a clumsy fellow, and it was strange to her to see the
pockmarked face with the high cheek bones, usually so gloomy, now
lively and alert.  The narrow gray eyes, formerly harsh and cold,
looking at the world sullenly with malice and distrust, seemed to
be chiseled anew, assuming an oval form and shining with an even,
warm light that convinced and moved the mother.

"You think of it--by day, without fail by day.  To whom would it
occur that a prisoner would make up his mind to escape by day in
the eyes of the whole prison?"

"And they'll shoot him down," the woman said trembling.

"Who?  There are no soldiers, and the overseers of the prison use
their revolvers to drive nails in."

"Why, it's very simple--all this."

"And you'll see it'll all come out all right.  No.  You speak to
them.  I have everything prepared already--the rope ladder, the
screw hooks; I spoke to my host, he'll be the lamplighter."

Somebody stirred noisily at the door and coughed, and iron clanked.

"There he is!" exclaimed Nikolay.

At the open door a tin bathtub was thrust in, and a hoarse voice said:

"Get in, you devil."

Then a round, gray, hatless head appeared.  It had protruding eyes
and a mustache, and wore a good-natured expression.  Nikolay helped
the man in with the tub.  A tall, stooping figure strode through the
door.  The man coughed, his shaven cheeks puffing up; he spat out
and greeted hoarsely:

"Good health to you!"

"There!  Ask him!"

"Me?  What about?"

"About the escape."

"Ah, ah!" said the host, wiping his mustache with black fingers.

"There, Yakob Vasilyevich!  She doesn't believe it's a simple matter!"

"Hm! she doesn't believe!  Not to believe means not to want to
believe.  You and I want to, and so we believe."  The old man
suddenly bent over and coughed hoarsely, rubbed his breast for a
long time, while he stood in the middle of the room panting for
breath and scanning the mother with wide-open eyes.

"I'm not the one to decide, Nikolay."

"But, mother, you talk with them.  Tell them everything is ready.
Ah, if I could only see them!  I'd force them!"  He threw out his
hands with a broad gesture and pressed them together as if embracing
something firmly, and his voice rang with hot feeling that astounded
the mother by its power.

"Hm! what a fellow you are!" she thought; but said aloud:  "It's for
Pasha and the comrades to decide."

Nikolay thoughtfully inclined his head.

"Who's this Pasha?" asked the host, seating himself.

"My son."

"What's the family?"

"Vlasov."

He nodded his head, got his tobacco pouch, whipped out his pipe and
filled it with tobacco.  He spoke brokenly:

"I've heard of him.  My nephew knows him.  He, too, is in prison--
my nephew Yevchenko.  Have you heard of him?  And my family is Godun.
They'll soon shut all the young people in prison, and then there'll
be plenty and comfort for us old folks.  The gendarme assures me that
my nephew will even be sent to Siberia.  They'll exile him--the dogs!"

Lighting his pipe, he turned to Nikolay, spitting frequently on the floor:

"So she doesn't want to?  Well, that's her affair!  A person is free
to feel as he wants to.  Are you tired of sitting in prison?  Go.
Are you tired of going?  Sit.  They robbed you?  Keep still.  They
beat you?  Bear it.  They have killed you?  Stay dead.  That's
certain.  And I'll carry off Savka; I'll carry him off!"  His curt,
barking phrases, full of good-natured irony, perplexed the mother.
But his last words aroused envy in her.

While walking along the street in the face of a cold wind and rain;
she thought of Nikolay, "What a man he's become!  Think of it!"  And
remembering Godun, she almost prayerfully reflected, "It seems I'm
not the only one who lives for the new.  It's a big fire if it so
cleanses and burns all who see it."  Then she thought of her son,
"If he only agreed!"

On Sunday, taking leave of Pavel in the waiting room of the prison,
she felt a little lump of paper in her hand.  She started as if it
burned her skin, and cast a look of question and entreaty into her
son's face.  But she found no answer there.  Pavel's blue eyes
smiled with the usual composed smile familiar to her.

"Good-by!" she sighed.

The son again put out his hand to her, and a certain kindness and
tenderness for her quivered on his face.  "Good-by, mamma!"

She waited without letting go of his hand.  "Don't be uneasy--
don't be angry," he said.

These words and the stubborn folds between his brows answered her
question.  "Well, what do you mean?" she muttered, drooping her
head.  "What of it?"  And she quickly walked away without looking
at him, in order not to betray her feelings by the tears in her eyes
and the quiver of her lips.  On the road she thought that the bones
of the hand which had pressed her son's hand ached and grew heavy,
as if she had been struck on the shoulder.

At home, after thrusting the note into Nikolay's hand, she stood
before him, and waited while he smoothed out the tight little roll.
She felt a tremor of hope again; but Nikolay said:

"Of course, this is what he writes:  'We will not go away, comrade;
we cannot, not one of us.  We should lose respect for ourselves.
Take into consideration the peasant recently arrested.  He has
merited your solicitude; he deserves that you expend much time and
energy on him.  It's very hard for him here--daily collisions with
the authorities.  He's already had the twenty-four hours of the dark
cell.  They torture him to death.  We all intercede for him.  Soothe
and be kind to my mother; tell her; she'll understand all.  Pavel.'"

The mother straightened herself easily, and proudly tossed her head.

"Well, what is there to tell me?" she said firmly.  "I understand--
they want to go straight at the authorities again--'there! condemn
the truth!'"

Nikolay quickly turned aside, took out his handkerchief, blew his
nose aloud, and mumbled:  "I've caught a cold, you see!"  Covering
his eyes with his hands, under the pretext of adjusting his glasses,
he paced up and down the room, and said:  "We shouldn't have been
successful anyway."

"Never mind; let the trial come off!" said the mother frowning.

"Here, I've received a letter from a comrade in St. Petersburg----"

"He can escape from Siberia, too, can't he?"

"Of course!  The comrade writes:  'The trial is appointed for the
near future; the sentence is certain--exile for everybody!'  You
see, these petty cheats convert their court into the most trivial
comedy.  You understand?  Sentence is pronounced in St.  Petersburg
before the trial."

"Stop!" the mother said resolutely.  "You needn't comfort me or
explain to me.  Pasha won't do what isn't right--he won't torture
himself for nothing."  She paused to catch breath.  "Nor will he
torture others, and he loves me, yes.  You see, he thinks of me.
'Explain to her,' he writes; 'soothe her and comfort her,' eh?"

Her heart beat quickly but boldly, and her head whirled slightly
from excitement.

"Your son's a splendid man!  I respect and love him very much."

"I tell you what--let's think of something in regard to Rybin,"
she suggested.

She wanted to do something forthwith--go somewhere, walk till she
dropped from exhaustion, and then fall asleep, content with the
day's work.

"Yes--very well!" said Nikolay, pacing through the room.  "Why not?
We ought to have Sashenka here!"

"She'll be here soon.  She always comes on my visiting day to Pasha."

Thoughtfully drooping his head, biting his lips and twisting his
beard, Nikolay sat on the sofa by the mother's side.

"I'm sorry my sister isn't here.  She ought to occupy herself with
Rybin's case."

"It would be well to arrange it at once, while Pasha is there.  It
would be pleasant for him."

The bell rang.  They looked at each other.

"That's Sasha," Nikolay whispered.

"How will you tell her?" the mother whispered back.

"Yes--um!--it's hard!"

"I pity her very much."

The bell rang again, not so loud, as if the person on the other side
of the door had also fallen to thinking and hesitated.  Nikolay and
the mother rose simultaneously, but at the kitchen door Nikolay
turned aside.

"You'd better do it," he said.

"He's not willing?" the girl asked the moment the mother opened the door.

"No."

"I knew it!"  Sasha's face paled.  She unbuttoned her coat, fastened
two buttons again, then tried to remove her coat, unsuccessfully, of
course.  "Dreadful weather--rain, wind; it's disgusting!  Is he well?"

"Yes."

"Well and happy; always the same, and only this--"  Her tone was
disconsolate, and she regarded her hands.

"He writes that Rybin ought to be freed."  The mother kept her eyes
turned from the girl.

"Yes?  It seems to me we ought to make use of this plan."

"I think so, too," said Nikolay, appearing at the door.  "How do
you do, Sasha?"

The girl asked, extending her hand to him:

"What's the question about?  Aren't all agreed that the plan is
practicable?  I know they are."

"And who'll organize it?  Everybody's occupied."

"Give it to me," said Sasha, quickly jumping to her feet.  "I have time!"

"Take it.  But you must ask others."

"Very well, I will.  I'll go at once."

She began to button up her coat again with sure, thin fingers.

"You ought to rest a little," the mother advised.

Sasha smiled and answered in a softer voice:

"Don't worry about me.  I'm not tired."  And silently pressing their
hands, she left once more, cold and stern.



CHAPTER XIV


The mother and Nikolay, walking up to the window, watched the girl
pass through the yard and disappear beyond the gate.  Nikolay
whistled quietly, sat down at the table and began to write.

"She'll occupy herself with this affair, and it'll be easier for
her," the mother reflected.

"Yes, of course!" responded Nikolay, and turning around to the
mother with a kind smile on his face, asked:  "And how about you,
Nilovna--did this cup of bitterness escape you?  Did you never know
the pangs for a beloved person?"

"Well!" exclaimed the mother with a wave of her hand.  "What sort
of a pang?  The fear they had whether they won't marry me off to
this man or that man?"

"And you liked no one?"

She thought a little, and answered:

"I don't recall, my dear!  How can it be that I didn't like anybody?
I suppose there was somebody I was fond of, but I don't remember."

She looked at him, and concluded simply, with sad composure:  "My
husband beat me a lot; and everything that was before him was
effaced from my soul."

Nikolay turned back to the table; the mother walked out of the room
for a minute.  On her return Nikolay looked at her kindly and began to
speak softly and lovingly.  His reminiscences stroked her like a caress.

"And I, you see, was like Sashenka.  I loved a girl:  a marvelous
being, a wonder, a--guiding star; she was gentle and bright for me.
I met her about twenty years ago, and from that time on I loved her.
And I love her now, too, to speak the truth.  I love her all so--
with my whole soul--gratefully--forever!"

Standing by his side the mother saw his eyes lighted from within by
a clear, warm light.  His hands folded over the back of the chair,
and his head leaning on them, he looked into the distance; his whole
body, lean and slender, but powerful, seemed to strive upward, like
the stalk of a plant toward the sun.

"Why didn't you marry?  You should have!"

"Oh, she's been married five years!"

"And before that--what was the matter?  Didn't she love you?"

He thought a while, and answered:

"Yes, apparently she loved me; I'm certain she did.  But, you see,
it was always this way:  I was in prison, she was free; I was free,
she was in prison or in exile.  That's very much like Sasha's position,
really.  Finally they exiled her to Siberia for ten years.  I wanted
to follow her, but I was ashamed and she was ashamed, and I remained
here.  Then she met another man--a comrade of mine, a very good
fellow, and they escaped together.  Now they live abroad.  Yes----"

Nikolay took off his glasses, wiped them, held them up to the light
and began to wipe them again.

"Ah, you, my dear!" the mother exclaimed lovingly, shaking her head.
She was sorry for him; at the same time something compelled her to
smile a warm, motherly smile.  He changed his pose, took the pen in
his hand, and said, punctuating the rhythm of his speed with waves
of his hand:

"Family life always diminishes the energy of a revolutionist.
Children must be maintained in security, and there's the need to
work a great deal for one's bread.  The revolutionist ought without
cease to develop every iota of his energy; he must deepen and
broaden it; but this demands time.  He must always be at the head,
because we--the workingmen--are called by the logic of history to
destroy the old world, to create the new life; and if we stop, if we
yield to exhaustion, or are attracted by the possibility of a little
immediate conquest, it's bad--it's almost treachery to the cause.
No revolutionist can adhere closely to an individual--walk through
life side by side with another individual--without distorting his
faith; and we must never forget that our aim is not little
conquests, but only complete victory!"

His voice became firm, his face paled, and his eyes kindled with the
force that characterized him.  The bell sounded again.  It was
Liudmila.  She wore an overcoat too light for the season, her cheeks
were purple with the cold.  Removing her torn overshoes, she said in
a vexed voice:

"The date of the trial is appointed--in a week!"

"Really?" shouted Nikolay from the room.

The mother quickly walked up to him, not understanding whether
fright or joy agitated her.  Liudmila, keeping step with her, said,
with irony in her low voice:

"Yes, really!  The assistant prosecuting attorney, Shostak, just
now brought the incriminating acts.  In the court they say, quite
openly, that the sentence has already been fixed.  What does it
mean?  Do the authorities fear that the judges will deal too
mercifully with the enemies of the government?  Having so long and
so assiduously kept corrupting their servants, is the government
still unassured of their readiness to be scoundrels?"

Liudmila sat on the sofa, rubbing her lean cheeks with her palms;
her dull eyes burned contemptuous scorn, and her voice filled with
growing wrath.

"You waste your powder for nothing, Liudmila!"  Nikolay tried to
soothe her.  "They don't hear you."

"Some day I'll compel them to hear me!"

The black circles under her eyes trembled and threw an ominous
shadow on her face.  She bit her lips.

"You go against me--that's your right; I'm your enemy.  But in
defending your power don't corrupt people; don't compel me to have
instinctive contempt for them; don't dare to poison my soul with
your cynicism!"

Nikolay looked at her through his glasses, and screwing up his eyes,
shook his head sadly.  But she continued to speak as if those whom
she detested stood before her.  The mother listened with strained
attention, understanding nothing, and instinctively repeating to
herself one and the same words, "The trial--the trial will come off
in a week!"

She could not picture to herself what it would be like; how the
judges would behave toward Pavel.  Her thoughts muddled her brain,
covered her eyes with a gray mist, and plunged her into something
sticky, viscid, chilling and paining her body.  The feeling grew,
entered her blood, took possession of her heart, and weighed it
down heavily, poisoning in it all that was alive and bold.

Thus, in a cloud of perplexity and despondency under the load of
painful expectations, she lived through one day, and a second day;
but on the third day Sasha appeared and said to Nikolay:

"Everything is ready--to-day, in an hour!"

"Everything ready?  So soon?"  He was astonished.

"Why shouldn't everything be ready?  The only thing I had to do was
to get a hiding place and clothes for Rybin.  All the rest Godun
took on himself.  Rybin will have to go through only one ward of the
city.  Vyesovshchikov will meet him on the street, all disguised, of
course.  He'll throw an overcoat over him, give him a hat, and show
him the way.  I'll wait for him, change his clothes and lead him off."

"Not bad!  And who's this Godun?"

"You've seen him!  You gave talks to the locksmiths in his place."

"Oh, I remember!  A droll old man."

"He's a soldier who served his time--a roofer, a man of little
education, but with an inexhaustible fund of hatred for every kind
of violence and for all men of violence.  A bit of a philosopher!"

The mother listened in silence to her, and something indistinct
slowly dawned upon her.

"Godun wants to free his nephew--you remember him?  You liked
Yevchenko, a blacksmith, quite a dude."  Nikolay nodded his head.
"Godun has arranged everything all right.  But I'm beginning to
doubt his success.  The passages in the prison are used by all the
inmates, and I think when the prisoners see the ladder many will
want to run--"  She closed her eyes and was silent for a while.
The mother moved nearer to her.  "They'll hinder one another."

They all three stood before the window, the mother behind Nikolay
and Sasha.  Their rapid conversation roused in her a still stronger
sense of uneasiness and anxiety.

"I'm going there," the mother said suddenly.

"Why?" asked Sasha.

"Don't go, darling!  Maybe you'll get caught.  You mustn't!"
Nikolay advised.

The mother looked at them and softly, but persistently, repeated:
"No; I'm going!  I'm going!"

They quickly exchanged glances, and Sasha, shrugging her shoulders, said:

"Of course--hope is tenacious!"

Turning to the mother she took her by the hand, leaned her head
on her shoulder, and said in a new, simple voice, near to the
heart of the mother:

"But I'll tell you after all, mamma, you're waiting in vain--he
won't try to escape!"

"My dear darling!" exclaimed the mother, pressing Sasha to her
tremulously.  "Take me; I won't interfere with you; I don't believe
it is possible--to escape!"

"She'll go," said the girl simply to Nikolay.

"That's your affair!" he answered, bowing his head.

"We mustn't be together, mamma.  You go to the garden in the lot.
From there you can see the wall of the prison.  But suppose they
ask you what you are doing there?"

Rejoiced, the mother answered confidently:

"I'll think of what to say."

"Don't forget that the overseers of the prison know you," said
Sasha; "and if they see you there----"

"They won't see me!" the mother laughed softly.

An hour later she was in the lot by the prison.  A sharp wind blew
about her, pulled her dress, and beat against the frozen earth,
rocked the old fence of the garden past which the woman walked, and
rattled against the low wall of the prison; it flung up somebody's
shouts from the court, scattered them in the air, and carried them
up to the sky.  There the clouds were racing quickly, little rifts
opening in the blue height.

Behind the mother lay the city; in front the cemetery; to the right,
about seventy feet from her, the prison.  Near the cemetery a soldier
was leading a horse by a rein, and another soldier tramped noisily
alongside him, shouted, whistled, and laughed.  There was no one
else near the prison.  On the impulse of the moment the mother
walked straight up to them.  As she came near she shouted:

"Soldiers! didn't you see a goat anywhere around here?"

One of them answered:

"No."

She walked slowly past them, toward the fence of the cemetery,
looking slantwise to the right and the back.  Suddenly she felt her
feet tremble and grow heavy, as if frozen to the ground.  From the
corner of the prison a man came along, walking quickly, like a
lamplighter.  He was a stooping man, with a little ladder on his
shoulder.  The mother, blinking in fright, quickly glanced at the
soldiers; they were stamping their feet on one spot, and the horse
was running around them.  She looked at the ladder--he had already
placed it against the wall and was climbing up without haste.  He
waved his hand in the courtyard, quickly let himself down, and
disappeared around the corner.  That very second the black head of
Mikhail appeared on the wall, followed by his entire body.  Another
head, with a shaggy hat, emerged alongside of his.  Two black lumps
rolled to the ground; one disappeared around the corner; Mikhail
straightened himself up and looked about.

"Run, run!" whispered the mother, treading impatiently.  Her ears
were humming.  Loud shouts were wafted to her.  There on the wall
appeared a third head.  She clasped her hands in faintness.  A
light-haired head, without a beard, shook as if it wanted to tear
itself away, but it suddenly disappeared behind the wall.  The
shouts came louder and louder, more and more boisterous.  The wind
scattered the thin trills of the whistles through the air.  Mikhail
walked along the wall--there! he was already beyond it, and
traversed the open space between the prison and the houses of the
city.  It seemed to her as if he were walking very, very slowly,
that he raised his head to no purpose.  "Everyone who sees his face
will remember it forever," and she whispered, "Faster! faster!"
Behind the wall of the prison something slammed, the thin sound of
broken glass was heard.  One of the soldiers, planting his feet
firmly on the ground, drew the horse to him, and the horse jumped.
The other one, his fist at his mouth, shouted something in the
direction of the prison, and as he shouted he turned his head
sidewise, with his ear cocked.

All attention, the mother turned her head in all directions, her
eyes seeing everything, believing nothing.  This thing which she
had pictured as terrible and intricate was accomplished with extreme
simplicity and rapidity, and the simpleness of the happenings
stupefied her.  Rybin was no longer to be seen--a tall man in a thin
overcoat was walking there--a girl was running along.  Three wardens
jumped out from a corner of the prison; they ran side by side,
stretching out their right hands.  One of the soldiers rushed in
front of them; the other ran around the horse, unsuccessfully trying
to vault on the refractory animal, which kept jumping about.  The
whistles incessantly cut the air, their alarming, desperate shrieks
aroused a consciousness of danger in the woman.  Trembling, she
walked along the fence of the cemetery, following the wardens; but
they and the soldiers ran around the other corner of the prison and
disappeared.  They were followed at a run by the assistant overseer
of the prison, whom she knew; his coat was unbuttoned.  From
somewhere policemen appeared, and people came running.

The wind whistled, leaped about as if rejoicing, and carried the
broken, confused shouts to the mother's ears.

"It stands here all the time."

"The ladder?"

"What's the matter with you then?  The devil take you!"

"Arrest the soldiers!"

"Policeman!"

Whistles again.  This hubbub delighted her and she strode on more
boldly, thinking, "So, it's possible--HE could have done it!"

But now pain for her son no longer entered her heart without pride
in him also.  And only fear for him weighed and oppressed her to
stupefaction as before.

From the corner of the fence opposite her a constable with a black,
curly beard, and two policemen emerged.

"Stop!" shouted the constable, breathing heavily.  "Did you see--
a man--with a beard--didn't he run by here?"

She pointed to the garden and answered calmly:

"He went that way!"

"Yegorov, run!  Whistle!  Is it long ago?"

"Yes--I should say--about a minute!"

But the whistle drowned her voice.  The constable, without waiting
for an answer, precipitated himself in a gallop along the hillocky
ground, waving his hands in the direction of the garden.  After
him, with bent head, and whistling, the policemen darted off.

The mother nodded her head after them, and, satisfied with herself,
went home.  When she walked out of the field into the street a cab
crossed her way.  Raising her head she saw in the vehicle a young
man with light mustache and a pale, worn face.  He, too, regarded
her.  He sat slantwise.  It must have been due to his position that
his right shoulder was higher than his left.

At home Nikolay met her joyously.

"Alive?  How did it go?"

"It seems everything's been successful!"

And slowly trying to reinstate all the details in her memory, she
began to tell of the escape.  Nikolay, too, was amazed at the success.

"You see, we're lucky!" said Nikolay, rubbing his hands.  "But how
frightened I was on your account only God knows.  You know what,
Nilovna, take my friendly advice:  don't be afraid of the trial.
The sooner it's over and done with the sooner Pavel will be free.
Believe me.  I've already written to my sister to try to think what
can be done for Pavel.  Maybe he'll even escape on the road.  And
the trial is approximately like this."  He began to describe to her
the session of the court.  She listened, and understood that he was
afraid of something--that he wanted to inspirit her.

"Maybe you think I'll say something to the judges?" she suddenly
inquired.  "That I'll beg them for something?"

He jumped up, waved his hands at her, and said in an offended tone:

"What are you talking about?  You're insulting me!"

"Excuse me, please; excuse me!  I really AM afraid--of what I don't know."

She was silent, letting her eyes wander about the room.

"Sometimes it seems to me that they'll insult Pasha--scoff at him.
'Ah, you peasant!' they'll say.  'You son of a peasant!  What's this
mess you've cooked up?'  And Pasha, proud as he is, he'll answer
them so----!  Or Andrey will laugh at them--and all the comrades
there are hot-headed and honest.  So I can't help thinking that
something will suddenly happen.  One of them will lose his patience,
the others will support him, and the sentence will be so severe--
you'll never see them again."

Nikolay was silent, pulling his beard glumly as the mother continued:

"It's impossible to drive this thought from my head.  The trial is
terrible to me.  When they'll begin to take everything apart and
weigh it--it's awful!  It's not the sentence that's terrible, but
the trial--I can't express it."  She felt that Nikolay didn't
understand her fear; and his inability to comprehend kept her from
further analysis of her timidities, which, however, only increased
and broadened during the three following days.  Finally, on the day
of the trial, she carried into the hall of the session a heavy dark
load that bent her back and neck.

In the street, acquaintances from the suburbs had greeted her.  She
had bowed in silence, rapidly making her way through the dense,
crowd in the corridor of the courthouse.  In the hall she was met by
relatives of the defendants, who also spoke to her in undertones.
All the words seemed needless; she didn't understand them.  Yet all
the people were sullen, filled with the same mournful feeling which
infected the mother and weighed her down.

"Let's sit next to each other," suggested Sizov, going to a bench.

She sat down obediently, settled her dress, and looked around.
Green and crimson specks, with thin yellow threads between, slowly
swam before her eyes.

"Your son has ruined our Vasya," a woman sitting beside her said quietly.

"You keep still, Natalya!" Sizov chided her angrily.

Nilovna looked at the woman; it was the mother of Samoylov.  Farther
along sat her husband--bald-headed, bony-faced, dapper, with a
large, bushy, reddish beard which trembled as he sat looking in
front of himself, his eyes screwed up.

A dull, immobile light entered through the high windows of the hall,
outside of which snow glided and fell lingeringly on the ground.
Between the windows hung a large portrait of the Czar in a massive
frame of glaring gilt.  Straight, austere folds of the heavy crimson
window drapery dropped over either side of it.  Before the portrait,
across almost the entire breadth of the hall, stretched the table
covered with green cloth.  To the right of the wall, behind the
grill, stood two wooden benches; to the left two rows of crimson
armchairs.  Attendants with green collars and yellow buttons on
their abdomens ran noiselessly about the hall.  A soft whisper
hummed in the turbid atmosphere, and the odor was a composite of
many odors as in a drug shop.  All this--the colors, the glitter,
the sounds and odors--pressed on the eyes and invaded the breast
with each inhalation.  It forced out live sensations, and filled
the desolate heart with motionless, dismal awe.

Suddenly one of the people said something aloud.  The mother
trembled.  All arose; she, too, rose, seizing Sizov's hand.

In the left corner of the hall a high door opened and an old man
emerged, swinging to and fro.  On his gray little face shook white,
sparse whiskers; he wore eyeglasses; the upper lip, which was
shaven, sank into his mouth as by suction; his sharp jawbones and
his chin were supported by the high collar of his uniform; apparently
there was no neck under the collar.  He was supported under the arm
from behind by a tall young man with a porcelain face, red and round.  
Following him three more men in uniforms embroidered in gold, and
three garbed in civilian wear, moved in slowly.  They stirred about
the table for a long time and finally took seats in the armchairs.
When they had sat down, one of them in unbuttoned uniform, with a
sleepy, clean-shaven face, began to say something to the little old
man, moving his puffy lips heavily and soundlessly.  The old man
listened, sitting strangely erect and immobile.  Behind the glasses
of his pince-nez the mother saw two little colorless specks.

At the end of the table, at the desk, stood a tall, bald man, who
coughed and shoved papers about.

The little old man swung forward and began to speak.  He pronounced
clearly the first words, but what followed seemed to creep without
sound from his thin, gray lips.

"I open----"

"See!" whispered Sizov, nudging the mother softly and arising.

In the wall behind the grill the door opened, a soldier came out
with a bared saber on his shoulder; behind him appeared Pavel,
Andrey, Fedya Mazin, the two Gusevs, Samoylov, Bukin, Somov, and
five more young men whose names were unknown to the mother.  Pavel
smiled kindly; Andrey also, showing his teeth as he nodded to her.
The hall, as it were, became lighter and simpler from their smile;
the strained, unnatural silence was enlivened by their faces and
movements.  The greasy glitter of gold on the uniforms dimmed and
softened.  A waft of bold assurance, the breath of living power,
reached the mother's heart and roused it.  On the benches behind
her, where up to that time the people had been waiting in crushed
silence, a responsive, subdued hum was audible.

"They're not trembling!" she heard Sizov whisper; and at her right
side Samoylov's mother burst into soft sobs.

"Silence!" came a stern shout.

"I warn you beforehand," said the old man, "I shall have to----"



CHAPTER XV


Pavel and Andrey sat side by side; along with them on the first
bench were Mazin, Samoylov, and the Gusevs.  Andrey had shaved his
beard, but his mustache had grown and hung down, and gave his round
head the appearance of a seacow or walrus.  Something new lay on his
face; something sharp and biting in the folds about his mouth;
something black in his eyes.  On Mazin's upper lip two black streaks
were limned, his face was fuller.  Samoylov was just as curly-haired
as before; and Ivan Gusev smiled just as broadly.

"Ah, Fedka, Fedka!" whispered Sizov, drooping his head.

The mother felt she could breathe more freely.  She heard the
indistinct questions of the old man, which he put without looking
at the prisoners; and his head rested motionless on the collar of
his uniform.  She heard the calm, brief answers of her son.  It
seemed to her that the oldest judge and his associates could be
neither evil nor cruel people.  Looking carefully at their faces
she tried to guess something, softly listening to the growth of a
new hope in her breast.

The porcelain-faced man read a paper indifferently; his even voice
filled the hall with weariness, and the people, enfolded by it, sat
motionless as if benumbed.  Four lawyers softly but animatedly
conversed with the prisoners.  They all moved powerfully, briskly,
and called to mind large blackbirds.

On one side of the old man a judge with small, bleared eyes filled
the armchair with his fat, bloated body.  On the other side sat a
stooping man with reddish mustache on his pale face.  His head was
wearily thrown on the back of the chair, his eyes, half-closed, he
seemed to be reflecting over something.  The face of the prosecuting
attorney was also worn, bored, and unexpectant.  Behind the judge
sat the mayor of the city, a portly man, who meditatively stroked
his cheek; the marshal of the nobility, a gray-haired, large-bearded,
ruddy-faced man, with large, kind eyes; and the district elder,
who wore a sleeveless peasant overcoat, and possessed a huge belly
which apparently embarrassed him; he endeavored to cover it with
the folds of his overcoat, but it always slid down and showed again.

"There are no criminals here and no judges," Pavel's vigorous voice
was heard.  "There are only captives here, and conquerors!"

Silence fell.  For a few seconds the mother's ears heard only the thin,
hasty scratch of the pen on the paper and the beating of her own heart.

The oldest judge also seemed to be listening to something from afar.
His associates stirred.  Then he said:

"Hm!  yes--Andrey Nakhodka, do you admit----"

Somebody whispered, "Rise!"

Andrey slowly rose, straightened himself, and pulling his mustache
looked at the old man from the corners of his eyes.

"Yes!  To what can I confess myself guilty?" said the Little Russian
in his slow, surging voice, shrugging his shoulders.  "I did not
murder nor steal; I simply am not in agreement with an order of
life in which people are compelled to rob and kill one another."

"Answer briefly--yes or no?" the old man said with an effort,
but distinctly.

On the benches back of her the mother felt there was animation; the
people began to whisper to one another about something and stirred,
sighing as if freeing themselves from the cobweb spun about them by
the gray words of the porcelain-faced man.

"Do you hear how they speak?" whispered Sizov.

"Yes."

"Fedor Mazin, answer!"

"I don't want to!" said Fedya clearly, jumping to his feet.  His
face reddened with excitation, his eyes sparkled.  For some reason
he hid his hands behind his back.

Sizov groaned softly, and the mother opened her eyes wide in astonishment.

"I declined a defense--I'm not going to say anything--I don't regard
your court as legal!  Who are you?  Did the people give you the
right to judge us?  No, they did not!  I don't know you."  He sat
down and concealed his heated face behind Andrey's shoulders.

The fat judge inclined his head to the old judge and whispered
something.  The old judge, pale-faced, raised his eyelids and
slanted his eyes at the prisoners, then extended his hand on the
table, and wrote something in pencil on a piece of paper lying
before him.  The district elder swung his head, carefully shifting
his feet, rested his abdomen on his knees, and his hands on his
abdomen.  Without moving his head the old judge turned his body to
the red-mustached judge, and began to speak to him quickly.  The
red-mustached judge inclined his head to listen.  The marshal of
the nobility conversed with the prosecuting attorney; the mayor of
the city listened and smiled, rubbing his cheek.  Again the dull
speech of the old judge was heard.  All four lawyers listened
attentively.  The prisoners exchanged whispers with one another,
and Fedya, smiling in confusion, hid his face.

"How he cut them off!  Straight, downright, better than all!" Sizov
whispered in amazement in the ear of the mother.  "Ah, you little boy!"

The mother smiled in perplexity.  The proceedings seemed to be
nothing but the necessary preliminary to something terrible, which
would appear and at once stifle everybody with its cold horror.  But
the calm words of Pavel and Andrey had sounded so fearless and firm,
as if uttered in the little house of the suburb, and not in the
presence of the court.  Fedya's hot, youthful sally amused her;
something bold and fresh grew up in the hall, and she guessed from
the movement of the people back of her that she was not the only
one who felt this.

"Your opinion," said the old judge.

The bald-headed prosecuting attorney arose, and, steadying himself
on the desk with one hand, began to speak rapidly, quoting figures.
In his voice nothing terrible was heard.

At the same time, however, a sudden dry, shooting attack disturbed
the heart of the mother.  It was an uneasy suspicion of something
hostile to her, which did not threaten, did not shout, but unfolded
itself unseen, soundless, intangible.  It swung lazily and dully
about the judges, as if enveloping them with an impervious cloud,
through which nothing from the outside could reach them.  She looked
at them.  They were incomprehensible to her.  They were not angry at
Pavel or at Fedya; they did not shout at the young men, as she had
expected; they did not abuse them in words, but put all their
questions reluctantly, with the air of "What's the use?".  It cost
them an effort to hear the answers to the end.  Apparently they
lacked interest because they knew everything beforehand.

There before her stood the gendarme, and spoke in a bass voice:

"Pavel Vlasov was named as the ringleader."

"And Nakhodka?" asked the fat judge in his lazy undertone.

"He, too."

"May I----"

The old judge asked a question of somebody:

"You have nothing?"

All the judges seemed to the mother to be worn out and ill.  A
sickened weariness marked their poses and voices, a sickened
weariness and a bored, gray ennui.  It was an evident nuisance to
them, all this--the uniforms, the hall, the gendarmes, the lawyers,
the obligation to sit in armchairs, and to put questions concerning
things perforce already known to them.  The mother in general was
but little acquainted with the masters; she had scarcely ever seen
them; and now she regarded the faces of the judges as something
altogether new and incomprehensible, deserving pity, however, rather
than inspiring horror.

The familiar, yellow-faced officer stood before them, and told about
Pavel and Andrey, stretching the words with an air of importance.
The mother involuntarily laughed, and thought:  "You don't know
much, my little father."

And now, as she looked at the people behind the grill, she ceased
to feel dread for them; they did not evoke alarm, pity was not for
them; they one and all called forth in her only admiration and love,
which warmly embraced her heart; the admiration was calm, the love
joyously distinct.  There they sat to one side, by the wall, young,
sturdy, scarcely taking any part in the monotonous talk of the
witnesses and judges, or in the disputes of the lawyers with the
prosecuting attorney.  They behaved as if the talk did not concern
them in the least.  Sometimes somebody would laugh contemptuously,
and say something to the comrades, across whose faces, then, a
sarcastic smile would also quickly pass.  Andrey and Pavel conversed
almost the entire time with one of their lawyers, whom the mother had
seen the day before at Nikolay's, and had heard Nikolay address as
comrade.  Mazin, brisker and more animated than the others, listened
to the conversation.  Now and then Samoylov said something to Ivan
Gusev; and the mother noticed that each time Ivan gave a slight
elbow nudge to a comrade, he could scarcely restrain a laugh; his
face would grow red, his cheeks would puff up, and he would have to
incline his head.  He had already sniffed a couple of times, and for
several minutes afterward sat with blown cheeks trying to be serious.
Thus, in each comrade his youth played and sparkled after his fashion,
lightly bursting the restraint he endeavored to put upon its lively
effervescence.  She looked, compared, and reflected.  She was unable
to understand or express in words her uneasy feeling of hostility.

Sizov touched her lightly with his elbow; she turned to him, and
found a look of contentment and slight preoccupation on his face.

"Just see how they've intrenched themselves in their defiance!  Fine
stuff in 'em!  Eh?  Barons, eh?  Well, and yet they're going to
be sentenced!"

The mother listened, unconsciously repeating to herself:

"Who will pass the sentence?  Whom will they sentence?"

The witnesses spoke quickly, in their colorless voices, the judges
reluctantly and listlessly.  Their bloodless, worn-out faces stared
into space unconcernedly.  They did not expect to see or hear
anything new.  At times the fat judge yawned, covering his smile
with his puffy hand, while the red-mustached judge grew still paler,
and sometimes raised his hand to press his finger tightly on the
bone of his temple, as he looked up to the ceiling with sorrowful,
widened eyes.  The prosecuting attorney infrequently scribbled on
his paper, and then resumed his soundless conversation with the
marshal of the nobility, who stroked his gray beard, rolled his
large, beautiful eyes, and smiled, nodding his head with importance.
The city mayor sat with crossed legs, and beat a noiseless tattoo
on his knee, giving the play of his fingers concentrated attention.
The only one who listened to the monotonous murmur of the voices
seemed to be the district elder, who sat with inclined head,
supporting his abdomen on his knees and solicitously holding it up
with his hands.  The old judge, deep in his armchair, stuck there
immovably.  The proceedings continued to drag on in this way for a
long, long time; and ennui again numbed the people with its heavy,
sticky embrace.

The mother saw that this large hall was not yet pervaded by that
cold, threatening justice which sternly uncovers the soul, examines
it, and seeing everything estimates its value with incorruptible
eyes, weighing it rigorously with honest hands.  Here was nothing to
frighten her by its power or majesty.

"I declare--" said the old judge clearly, and arose as he crushed
the following words with his thin lips.

The noise of sighs and low exclamations, of coughing and scraping
of feet, filled the hall as the court retired for a recess.  The
prisoners were led away.  As they walked out, they nodded their
heads to their relatives and familiars with a smile, and Ivan Gusev
shouted to somebody in a modulated voice:

"Don't lose courage, Yegor."

The mother and Sizov walked out into the corridor.

"Will you go to the tavern with me to take some tea?" the old man
asked her solicitously.  "We have an hour and a half's time."

"I don't want to."

"Well, then I won't go, either.  No, say!  What fellows those are!
They act as if they were the only real people, and the rest nothing
at all.  They'll all go scot-free, I'm sure.  Look at Fedka, eh?"

Samoylov's father came up to them holding his hat in his hand.
He smiled sullenly and said:

"My Vasily!  He declined a defense, and doesn't want to palaver.
He was the first to have the idea.  Yours, Pelagueya, stood for
lawyers; and mine said:  'I don't want one.'  And four declined
after him.  Hm, ye-es."

At his side stood his wife.  She blinked frequently, and wiped her
nose with the end of her handkerchief.  Samoylov took his beard in
his hand, and continued looking at the floor.

"Now, this is the queer thing about it:  you look at them, those
devils, and you think they got up all this at random--they're ruining
themselves for nothing.  And suddenly you begin to think:  'And maybe
they're right!'  You remember that in the factory more like them
keep on coming, keep on coming.  They always get caught; but they're
not destroyed, no more than common fish in the river get destroyed.
No.  And again you think, 'And maybe power is with them, too.'"

"It's hard for us, Stepan Petrov, to understand this affair," said Sizov.

"It's hard, yes," agreed Samoylov.

His wife noisily drawing in air through her nose remarked:

"They're all strong, those imps!"  With an unrestrained smile on
her broad, wizened face, she continued:  "You, Nilovna, don't be
angry with me because I just now slapped you, when I said that your
son is to blame.  A dog can tell who's the more to blame, to tell
you the truth.  Look at the gendarmes and the spies, what they said
about our Vasily!  He has shown what he can do too!"

She apparently was proud of her son, perhaps even without understanding
her feeling; but the mother did understand her feeling, and answered
with a kind smile and quiet words:

"A young heart is always nearer to the truth."

People rambled about the corridor, gathered into groups, speaking
excitedly and thoughtfully in hollow voices.  Scarcely anybody stood
alone; all faces bore evidence of a desire to speak, to ask, to
listen.  In the narrow white passageway the people coiled about in
sinuous curves, like dust carried in circles before a powerful wind.
Everybody seemed to be seeking something hard and firm to stand upon.

The older brother of Bukin, a tall, red-faced fellow, waved his
hands and turned about rapidly in all directions.

"The district elder Klepanov has no place in this case," he declared aloud.

"Keep still, Konstantin!" his father, a little old man, tried to
dissuade him, and looked around cautiously.

"No; I'm going to speak out!  There's a rumor afloat about him that
last year he killed a clerk of his on account of the clerk's wife.
What kind of a judge is he? permit me to ask.  He lives with the
wife of his clerk--what have you got to say to that?  Besides, he's
a well-known thief!"

"Oh, my little father--Konstantin!"

"True!" said Samoylov.  "True, the court is not a very just one."

Bukin heard his voice and quickly walked up to him, drawing the whole
crowd after him.  Red with excitement, he waved his hands and said:

"For thievery, for murder, jurymen do the trying.  They're common
people, peasants, merchants, if you please; but for going against
the authorities you're tried by the authorities.  How's that?"

"Konstantin!  Why are they against the authorities?  Ah, you!  They----"

"No, wait!  Fedor Mazin said the truth.  If you insult me, and I land
you one on your jaw, and you try me for it, of course I'm going to turn
out guilty.  But the first offender--who was it?  You?  Of course, you!"

The watchman, a gray man with a hooked nose and medals on his chest,
pushed the crowd apart, and said to Bukin, shaking his finger at him:

"Hey! don't shout!  Don't you know where you are?  Do you think this
is a saloon?"

"Permit me, my cavalier, I know where I am.  Listen!  If I strike
you and you me, and I go and try you, what would you think?"

"And I'll order you out," said the watchman sternly.

"Where to?  What for?"

"Into the street, so that you shan't bawl."

"The chief thing for them is that people should keep their mouths shut."

"And what do you think?" the old man bawled.  Bukin threw out his
hands, and again measuring the public with his eyes, began to speak
in a lower voice:

"And again--why are the people not permitted to be at the trial, but
only the relatives?  If you judge righteously, then judge in front
of everybody.  What is there to be afraid of?"

Samoylov repeated, but this time in a louder tone:

"The trial is not altogether just, that's true."

The mother wanted to say to him that she had heard from Nikolay of
the dishonesty of the court; but she had not wholly comprehended
Nikolay, and had forgotten some of his words.  While trying to
recall them she moved aside from the people, and noticed that
somebody was looking at her--a young man with a light mustache.
He held his right hand in the pocket of his trousers, which made
his left shoulder seem lower than the right, and this peculiarity
of his figure seemed familiar to the mother.  But he turned from her,
and she again lost herself in the endeavor to recollect, and forgot
about him immediately.  In a minute, however, her ear was caught by
the low question:

"This woman on the left?"

And somebody in a louder voice cheerfully answered:

"Yes."

She looked around.  The man with the uneven shoulders stood sidewise
toward her, and said something to his neighbor, a black-bearded
fellow with a short overcoat and boots up to his knees.

Again her memory stirred uneasily, but did not yield any distinct results.

The watchman opened the door of the hall, and shouted:

"Relatives, enter; show your tickets!"

A sullen voice said lazily:

"Tickets!  Like a circus!"

All the people now showed signs of a dull excitement, an uneasy
passion.  They began to behave more freely, and hummed and disputed
with the watchman.

Sitting down on the bench, Sizov mumbled something to the mother.

"What is it?" asked the mother.

"Oh, nothing--the people are fools!  They know nothing; they live
groping about and groping about."

The bellman rang; somebody announced indifferently:

"The session has begun!"

Again all arose, and again, in the same order, the judges filed in
and sat down; then the prisoners were led in.

"Pay attention!" whispered Sizov; "the prosecuting attorney is going
to speak."

The mother craned her neck and extended her whole body.  She yielded
anew to expectation of the horrible.

Standing sidewise toward the judges, his head turned to them,
leaning his elbow on the desk, the prosecuting attorney sighed,
and abruptly waving his right hand in the air, began to speak:

The mother could not make out the first words.  The prosecuting
attorney's voice was fluent, thick; it sped on unevenly, now a bit
slower, now a bit faster.  His words stretched out in a thin line,
like a gray seam; suddenly they burst out quickly and whirled like
a flock of black flies around a piece of sugar.  But she did not
find anything horrible in them, nothing threatening.  Cold as snow,
gray as ashes, they fell and fell, filling the hall with something
which recalled a slushy day in early autumn.  Scant in feeling,
rich in words, the speech seemed not to reach Pavel and his comrade.
Apparently it touched none of them; they all sat there quite composed,
smiling at times as before, and conversed without sound. At times
they frowned to cover up their smiles.

"He lies!" whispered Sizov.

She could not have said it.  She understood that the prosecuting
attorney charged all the comrades with guilt, not singling out any
one of them.  After having spoken about Pavel, he spoke about Fedya,
and having put him side by side with Pavel, he persistently thrust
Bukin up against them.  It seemed as if he packed and sewed them
into a sack, piling them up on top of one another.  But the external
sense of his words did not satisfy, did not touch, did not frighten
her.  She still waited for the horrible, and rigorously sought
something beyond his words--something in his face, his eyes, his
voice, in his white hand, which slowly glided in the air.  Something
terrible must be there; she felt it, but it was impalpable; it did
not yield to her consciousness, which again covered her heart with
a dry, pricking dust.

She looked at the judges.  There was no gainsaying that they were
bored at having to listen to this speech.  The lifeless, yellow
faces expressed nothing.  The sickly, the fat, or the extremely
lean, motionless dead spots all grew dimmer and dimmer in the dull
ennui that filled the hall.  The words of the prosecuting attorney
spurted into the air like a haze imperceptible to the eye, growing
and thickening around the judges, enveloping them more closely in
a cloud of dry indifference, of weary waiting.  At times one of
them changed his pose; but the lazy movement of the tired body did
not rouse their drowsy souls.  The oldest judge did not stir at all;
he was congealed in his erect position, and the gray blots behind
the eyeglasses at times disappeared, seeming to spread over his
whole face.  The mother realized this dead indifference, this
unconcern without malice in it, and asked herself in perplexity,
"Are they judging?"

The question pressed her heart, and gradually squeezed out of it her
expectation of the horrible.  It pinched her throat with a sharp
feeling of wrong.

The speech of the prosecuting attorney snapped off unexpectedly.
He made a few quick, short steps, bowed to the judges, and sat down,
rubbing his hands.  The marshal of the nobility nodded his head to
him, rolling his eyes; the city mayor extended his hand, and the
district elder stroked his belly and smiled.

But the judges apparently were not delighted by the speech, and
did not stir.

"The scabby devil!" Sizov whispered the oath.

"Next," said the old judge, bringing the paper to his face, "lawyers
for the defendants, Fedoseyev, Markov, Zagarov."

The lawyer whom the mother had seen at Nikolay's arose.  His face
was broad and good-natured; his little eyes smiled radiantly and
seemed to thrust out from under his eyebrows two sharp blades, which
cut the air like scissors.  He spoke without haste, resonantly,
and clearly; but the mother was unable to listen to his speech.
Sizov whispered in her ear:

"Did you understand what he said?  Did you understand?  'People,'
he says, 'are poor, they are all upset, insensate.'  Is that Fedor?
He says they don't understand anything; they're savages."

The feeling of wrong grew, and passed into revolt.  Along with the
quick, loud voice of the lawyer, time also passed more quickly.

"A live, strong man having in his breast a sensitive, honest heart
cannot help rebelling with all his force against this life so full
of open cynicism, corruption, falsehood, and so blunted by vapidity.
The eyes of honest people cannot help seeing such glaring
contradictions----"

The judge with the green face bent toward the president and whispered
something to him; then the old man said dryly:

"Please be more careful!"

"Ha!" Sizov exclaimed softly.

"Are they judging?" thought the mother, and the word seemed hollow
and empty as an earthen vessel.  It seemed to make sport of her
fear of the terrible.

"They're a sort of dead body," she answered the old man.

"Don't fear; they're livening up."

She looked at them, and she actually saw something like a shadow
of uneasiness on the faces of the judges.  Another man was already
speaking, a little lawyer with a sharp, pale, satiric face.  He
spoke very respectfully:

"With all due respect, I permit myself to call the attention of the
court to the solid manner of the honorable prosecuting attorney, to
the conduct of the safety department, or, as such people are called
in common parlance, spies----"

The judge with the green face again began to whisper something to
the president.  The prosecuting attorney jumped up.  The lawyer
continued without changing his voice:

"The spy Gyman tells us about the witness:  'I frightened him.'
The prosecuting attorney also, as the court has heard, frightened
witnesses; as a result of which act, at the insistence of the
defense, he called forth a rebuke from the presiding judge."

The prosecuting attorney began to speak quickly and angrily; the
old judge followed suit; the lawyer listened to them respectfully,
inclining his head.  Then he said:

"I can even change the position of my words if the prosecuting
attorney deems it is not in the right place; but that will not
change the plan of my defense.  However, I cannot understand the
excitement of the prosecuting attorney."

"Go for him!" said Sizov.  "Go for him, tooth and nail!  Pick him
open down to his soul, wherever that may be!"

The hall became animated; a fighting passion flared up; the defense
attacked from all sides, provoking and disturbing the judges,
driving away the cold haze that enveloped them, pricking the old
skin of the judges with sharp words.  The judges had the air of
moving more closely to one another, or suddenly they would puff and
swell, repulsing the sharp, caustic raps with the mass of their
soft, mellow bodies.  They acted as if they feared that the blow of
the opponent might call forth an echo in their empty bosoms, might
shake their resolution, which sprang not from their own will but
from a will strange to them.  Feeling this conflict, the people on
the benches back of the mother sighed and whispered.

But suddenly Pavel arose; tense quiet prevailed.  The mother
stretched her entire body forward.

"A party man, I recognize only the court of my party and will not
speak in my defense.  According to the desire of my comrades, I,
too, declined a defense.  I will merely try to explain to you what
you don't understand.  The prosecuting attorney designated our
coming out under the banner of the Social Democracy as an uprising
against the superior power, and regarded us as nothing but rebels
against the Czar.  I must declare to you that to us the Czar is not
the only chain that fetters the body of the country.  We are obliged
to tear off only the first and nearest chain from the people."

The stillness deepened under the sound of the firm voice; it seemed
to widen the space between the walls of the hall.  Pavel, by his
words, removed the people to a distance from himself, and thereby
grew in the eyes of the mother.  His stony, calm, proud face with
the beard, his high forehead, and blue eyes, somewhat stern, all
became more dazzling and more prominent.

The judges began to stir heavily and uneasily; the marshal of the
nobility was the first to whisper something to the judge with the
indolent face.  The judge nodded his head and turned to the old man;
on the other side of him the sick judge was talking.  Rocking back
and forth in the armchair, the old judge spoke to Pavel, but his
voice was drowned in the even, broad current of the young man's speech.

"We are Socialists!  That means we are enemies to private property,
which separates people, arms them against one another, and brings
forth an irreconcilable hostility of interests; brings forth lies
that endeavor to cover up, or to justify, this conflict of interests,
and corrupt all with falsehood, hypocrisy and malice.  We maintain
that a society that regards man only as a tool for its enrichment
is anti-human; it is hostile to us; we cannot be reconciled to its
morality; its double-faced and lying cynicism.  Its cruel relation to
individuals is repugnant to us.  We want to fight, and will fight,
every form of the physical and moral enslavement of man by such a
society; we will fight every measure calculated to disintegrate
society for the gratification of the interests of gain.  We are
workers--men by whose labor everything is created, from gigantic
machines to childish toys.  We are people devoid of the right to
fight for our human dignity.  Everyone strives to utilize us, and
may utilize us, as tools for the attainment of his ends.  Now we
want to have as much freedom as will give us the possibility in
time to come to conquer all the power.  Our slogan is simple:
'All the power for the people; all the means of production for the
people; work obligatory on all.  Down with private property!'  You
see, we are not rebels."

Pavel smiled, and the kindly fire of his blue eyes blazed forth
more brilliantly.

"Please, more to the point!" said the presiding judge distinctly
and aloud.  He turned his chest to Pavel, and regarded him.  It
seemed to the mother that his dim left eye began to burn with a
sinister, greedy fire.  The look all the judges cast on her son
made her uneasy for him.  She fancied that their eyes clung to his
face, stuck to his body, thirsted for his blood, by which they might
reanimate their own worn-out bodies.  And he, erect and tall,
standing firmly and vigorously, stretched out his hand to them while
he spoke distinctly:

"We are revolutionists, and will be such as long as private property
exists, as long as some merely command, and as long as others merely
work.  We take stand against the society whose interests you are
bidden to protect as your irreconcilable enemies, and reconciliation
between us is impossible until we shall have been victorious.  We
will conquer--we workingmen!  Your society is not at all so powerful
as it thinks itself.  That very property, for the production and
preservation of which it sacrifices millions of people enslaved by
it--that very force which gives it the power over us--stirs up
discord within its own ranks, destroys them physically and morally.
Property requires extremely great efforts for its protection; and in
reality all of you, our rulers, are greater slaves than we--you are
enslaved spiritually, we only physically.  YOU cannot withdraw from
under the weight of your prejudices and habits, the weight which
deadens you spiritually; nothing hinders US from being inwardly free.
The poisons with which you poison us are weaker than the antidote you
unwittingly administer to our consciences.  This antidote penetrates
deeper and deeper into the body of workingmen; the flames mount
higher and higher, sucking in the best forces, the spiritual powers,
the healthy elements even from among you.  Look!  Not one of you
can any longer fight for your power as an ideal!  You have already
expended all the arguments capable of guarding you against the
pressure of historic justice.  You can create nothing new in the
domain of ideas; you are spiritually barren.  Our ideas grow; they
flare up ever more dazzling; they seize hold of the mass of the
people, organizing them for the war of freedom.  The consciousness
of their great role unites all the workingmen of the world into
one soul.  You have no means whereby to hinder this renovating
process in life except cruelty and cynicism.  But your cynicism
is very evident, your cruelty exasperates, and the hands with which
you stifle us to-day will press our hands in comradeship to-morrow.
Your energy, the mechanical energy of the increase of gold, separates
you, too, into groups destined to devour one another.  Our energy
is a living power, founded on the ever-growing consciousness of the
solidarity of all workingmen.  Everything you do is criminal, for
it is directed toward the enslavement of the people.  Our work frees
the world from the delusions and monsters which are produced by your
malice and greed, and which intimidate the people.  You have torn
man away from life and disintegrated him.  Socialism will unite the
world, rent asunder by you, into one huge whole.  And this will be!"

Pavel stopped for a second, and repeated in a lower tone, with
greater emphasis, "This will be!"

The judges whispered to one another, making strange grimaces.  And
still their greedy looks were fastened on the body of Nilovna's son.
The mother felt that their gaze tarnished this supple, vigorous
body; that they envied its strength, power, freshness.  The
prisoners listened attentively to the speech of their comrade; their
faces whitened, their eyes flashed joy.  The mother drank in her
son's words, which cut themselves into her memory in regular rows.
The old judge stopped Pavel several times and explained something
to him.  Once he even smiled sadly.  Pavel listened to him silently,
and again began to speak in an austere but calm voice, compelling
everybody to listen to him, subordinating the will of the judges to
his will.  This lasted for a long time.  Finally, however, the old
man shouted, extending his hand to Pavel, whose voice in response
flowed on calmly, somewhat sarcastically.

"I am reaching my conclusion.  To insult you personally was not my
desire; on the contrary, as an involuntary witness to this comedy
which you call a court trial, I feel almost compassion for you, I
may say.  You are human beings after all; and it is saddening to
see human beings, even our enemies, so shamefully debased in the
service of violence, debased to such a degree that they lose
consciousness of their human dignity."

He sat down without looking at the judges.

Andrey, all radiant with joy, pressed his hand firmly; Samoylov,
Mazin, and the rest animatedly stretched toward him.  He smiled,
a bit embarrassed by the transport of his comrades.  He looked
toward his mother, and nodded his head as if asking, "Is it so?"

She answered him all a-tremble, all suffused with warm joy.

"There, now the trial has begun!" whispered Sizov.  "How he gave
it to them!  Eh, mother?"



CHAPTER XVI


She silently nodded her head and smiled, satisfied that her son had
spoken so bravely, perhaps still more satisfied that he had finished.
The thought darted through her mind that the speech was likely to
increase the dangers threatening Pavel; but her heart palpitated
with pride, and his words seemed to settle in her bosom.

Andrey arose, swung his body forward, looked at the judges sidewise,
and said:

"Gentlemen of the defense----"

"The court is before you, and not the defense!" observed the judge
of the sickly face angrily and loudly.  By Andrey's expression the
mother perceived that he wanted to tease them.  His mustache
quivered.  A cunning, feline smirk familiar to her lighted up his
eyes.  He stroked his head with his long hands, and fetched a breath.

"Is that so?" he said, swinging his head.  "I think not.  That you
are not the judges, but only the defendants----"

"I request you to adhere to what directly pertains to the case,"
remarked the old man dryly.

"To what directly pertains to the case?  Very well!  I've already
compelled myself to think that you are in reality judges, independent
people, honest----"

"The court has no need of your characterization."

"It has no need of SUCH a characterization?  Hey?  Well, but after
all I'm going to continue.  You are men who make no distinction
between your own and strangers.  You are free people.  Now, here two
parties stand before you; one complains, 'He robbed me and did me up
completely'; and the other answers, 'I have a right to rob and to do
up because I have arms'----"

"Please don't tell anecdotes."

"Why, I've heard that old people like anecdotes--naughty ones in
particular."

"I'll prohibit you from speaking.  You may say something about what
directly pertains to the case.  Speak, but without buffoonery,
without unbecoming sallies."

The Little Russian looked at the judges, silently rubbing his head.

"About what directly pertains to the case?" he asked seriously.
"Yes; but why should I speak to you about what directly pertains
to the case?  What you need to know my comrade has told you.  The
rest will be told you; the time will come, by others----"

The old judge rose and declared:

"I forbid you to speak.  Vasily Samoylov!"

Pressing his lips together firmly the Little Russian dropped down
lazily on the bench, and Samoylov arose alongside of him, shaking
his curly hair.

"The prosecuting attorney called my comrades and me 'savages,'
'enemies of civilization'----"

"You must speak only about that which pertains to your case."

"This pertains to the case.  There's nothing which does not pertain
to honest men, and I ask you not to interrupt me.  I ask you what
sort of a thing is your civilization?"

"We are not here for discussions with you.  To the point!" said
the old judge, showing his teeth.

Andrey's demeanor had evidently changed the conduct of the judges;
his words seemed to have wiped something away from them.  Stains
appeared on their gray faces.  Cold, green sparks burned in their
eyes.  Pavel's speech had excited but subdued them; it restrained
their agitation by its force, which involuntarily inspired respect.
The Little Russian broke away this restraint and easily bared what
lay underneath.  They looked at Samoylov, and whispered to one
another with strange, wry faces.  They also began to move extremely
quickly for them.  They gave the impression of desiring to seize
him and howl while torturing his body with voluptuous ecstasy.

"You rear spies, you deprave women and girls, you put men in the
position which forces them to thievery and murder; you corrupt them
with whisky--international butchery, universal falsehood, depravity,
and savagery--that's your civilization!  Yes, we are enemies of
this civilization!"

"Please!" shouted the old judge, shaking his chin; but Samoylov,
all red, his eyes flashing, also shouted:

"But we respect and esteem another civilization, the creators of
which you have persecuted, you have allowed to rot in dungeons,
you have driven mad----"

"I forbid you to speak!  Hm--  Fedor Mazin!"

Little Mazin popped up like a cork from a champagne bottle, and said
in a staccato voice:

"I--I swear!--I know you have convicted me----"

He lost breath and paled; his eyes seemed to devour his entire face.
He stretched out his hand and shouted:

"I--upon my honest word!  Wherever you send me--I'll escape--I'll
return--I'll work always--all my life!  Upon my honest word!"

Sizov quacked aloud.  The entire public, overcome by the mounting
wave of excitement, hummed strangely and dully.  One woman cried,
some one choked and coughed.  The gendarmes regarded the prisoners
with dull surprise, the public with a sinister look.  The judges
shook, the old man shouted in a thin voice:

"Ivan Gusev!"

"I don't want to speak."

"Vasily Gusev!"

"Don't want to."

"Fedor Bukin!"

The whitish, faded fellow lifted himself heavily, and shaking his
head slowly said in a thick voice:

"You ought to be ashamed.  I am a heavy man, and yet I understand--
justice!"  He raised his hand higher than his head and was silent,
half-closing his eyes as if looking at something at a distance.

"What is it?" shouted the old judge in excited astonishment,
dropping back in his armchair.

"Oh, well, what's the use?"

Bukin sullenly let himself down on the bench.  There was something
big and serious in his dark eyes, something somberly reproachful
and naive.  Everybody felt it; even the judges listened, as if
waiting for an echo clearer than his words.  On the public benches
all commotion died down immediately; only a low weeping swung in
the air.  Then the prosecuting attorney, shrugging his shoulders,
grinned and said something to the marshal of the nobility, and
whispers gradually buzzed again excitedly through the hall.

Weariness enveloped the mother's body with a stifling faintness.
Small drops of perspiration stood on her forehead.  Samoylov's
mother stirred on the bench, nudging her with her shoulder and
elbow, and said to her husband in a subdued whisper:

"How is this, now?  Is it possible?"

"You see, it's possible."

"But what is going to happen to him, to Vasily?"

"Keep still.  Stop."

The public was jarred by something it did not understand.  All
blinked in perplexity with blinded eyes, as if dazzled by the sudden
blazing up of an object, indistinct in outline, of unknown meaning,
but with horrible drawing power.  And since the people did not
comprehend this great thing dawning on them, they contracted its
significance into something small, the meaning of which was, evident
and clear to them.  The elder Bukin, therefore, whispered aloud
without constraint:

"Say, please, why don't they permit them to talk?  The prosecuting
attorney can say everything, and as much as he wants to----"

A functionary stood at the benches, and waving his hands at the
people, said in a half voice:

"Quiet, quiet!"

The father of Samoylov threw himself back, and ejaculated broken
words behind his wife's ear:

"Of course--let us say they are guilty--but you'll let them explain.
What is it they have gone against?  Against everything--I wish to
understand--I, too, have my interest."  And suddenly:  "Pavel says
the truth, hey?  I want to understand.  Let them speak."

"Keep still!" exclaimed the functionary, shaking his finger at him.

Sizov nodded his head sullenly.

But the mother kept her gaze fastened unwaveringly on the judges,
and saw that they got more and more excited, conversing with one
another in indistinct voices.  The sound of their words, cold and
tickling, touched her face, puckering the skin on it, and filling
her mouth with a sickly, disgusting taste.  The mother somehow
conceived that they were all speaking of the bodies of her son and
his comrades, their vigorous bare bodies, their muscles, their
youthful limbs full of hot blood, of living force.  These bodies
kindled in the judges the sinister, impotent envy of the rich by the
poor, the unwholesome greed felt by wasted and sick people for the
strength of the healthy.  Their mouths watered regretfully for these
bodies, capable of working and enriching, of rejoicing and creating.
The youths produced in the old judges the revengeful, painful excitement
of an enfeebled beast which sees the fresh prey, but no longer has
the power to seize it, and howls dismally at its powerlessness.

This thought, rude and strange, grew more vivid the more attentively
the mother scrutinized the judges.  They seemed not to conceal their
excited greed--the impotent vexation of the hungry who at one time
had been able to consume in abundance.  To her, a woman and a
mother, to whom after all the body of her son is always dearer than
that in him which is called a soul, to her it was horrible to see
how these sticky, lightless eyes crept over his face, felt his
chest, shoulders, hands, tore at the hot skin, as if seeking the
possibility of taking fire, of warming the blood in their hardened
brains and fatigued muscles--the brains and muscles of people
already half dead, but now to some degree reanimated by the pricks
of greed and envy of a young life that they presumed to sentence and
remove to a distance from themselves.  It seemed to her that her
son, too, felt this damp, unpleasant tickling contact, and,
shuddering, looked at her.

He looked into the mother's face with somewhat fatigued eyes, but
calmly, kindly, and warmly.  At times he nodded his head to her,
and smiled--she understood the smile.

"Now quick!" she said.

Resting his hand on the table the oldest judge arose.  His head sunk
in the collar of his uniform, standing motionless, he began to read
a paper in a droning voice.

"He's reading the sentence," said Sizov, listening.

It became quiet again, and everybody looked at the old man, small,
dry, straight, resembling the stick held in his unseen hand.  The
other judges also stood up.  The district elder inclined his head
on one shoulder, and looked up to the ceiling; the mayor of the
city crossed his hands over his chest; the marshal of the nobility
stroked his beard.  The judge with the sickly face, his puffy
neighbor, and the prosecuting attorney regarded the prisoners
sidewise.  And behind the judges the Czar in a red military coat,
with an indifferent white face looked down from his portrait over
their heads.  On his face some insect was creeping, or a cobweb was
trembling.

"Exile!" Sizov said with a sigh of relief, dropping back on the
bench.  "Well, of course!  Thank God!  I heard that they were going
to get hard labor.  Never mind, mother, that's nothing."

Fatigued by her thoughts and her immobility, she understood the
joy of the old man, which boldly raised the soul dragged down by
hopelessness.  But it didn't enliven her much.

"Why, I knew it," she answered.

"But, after all, it's certain now.  Who could have told beforehand
what the authorities would do?  But Fedya is a fine fellow, dear soul."

They walked to the grill; the mother shed tears as she pressed the
hand of her son.  He and Fedya spoke words, smiled, and joked.  All
were excited, but light and cheerful.  The women wept; but, like
Vlasova, more from habit than grief.  They did not experience the
stunning pain produced by an unexpected blow on the head, but only
the sad consciousness that they must part with the children.  But
even this consciousness was dimmed by the impressions of the day.
The fathers and the mothers looked at their children with mingled
sensations, in which the skepticism of parents toward their children
and the habitual sense of the superiority of elders over youth
blended strangely with the feeling of sheer respect for them, with
the persistent melancholy thought that life had now become dull,
and with the curiosity aroused by the young men who so bravely and
fearlessly spoke of the possibility of a new life, which the elders
did not comprehend but which seemed to promise something good.  The
very novelty and unusualness of the feeling rendered expression
impossible.  Words were spoken in plenty, but they referred only
to common matters.  The relatives spoke of linen and clothes, and
begged the comrades to take care of their health, and not to provoke
the authorities uselessly.

"Everybody, brother, will grow weary, both we and they," said
Samoylov to his son.

And Bukin's brother, waving his hand, assured the younger brother:

"Merely justice, and nothing else!  That they cannot admit."

The younger Bukin answered:

"You look out for the starling.  I love him."

"Come back home, and you'll find him in perfect trim."

"I've nothing to do there."

And Sizov held his nephew's hand, and slowly said:

"So, Fedor; so you've started on your trip.  So."

Fedya bent over, and whispered something in his ear, smiling
roguishly.  The convoy soldier also smiled; but he immediately
assumed a stern expression, and shouted, "Go!"

The mother spoke to Pavel, like the others, about the same things,
about clothes, about his health, yet her breast was choked by a
hundred questions concerning Sasha, concerning himself, and herself.
Underneath all these emotions an almost burdensome feeling was
slowly growing of the fullness of her love for her son--a strained
desire to please him, to be near to his heart.  The expectation of
the terrible had died away, leaving behind it only a tremor at the
recollection of the judges, and somewhere in a corner a dark
impersonal thought regarding them.

"Young people ought to be tried by young judges, and not by old
ones," she said to her son.

"It would be better to arrange life so that it should not force
people to crime," answered Pavel.

The mother, seeing the Little Russian converse with everybody and
realizing that he needed affection more than Pavel, spoke to him.
Andrey answered her gratefully, smiling, joking kindly, as always
a bit droll, supple, sinewy.  Around her the talk went on, crossing
and intertwining.  She heard everything, understood everybody, and
secretly marveled at the vastness of her own heart, which took in
everything with an even joy, and gave back a clear reflection of
it, like a bright image on a deep, placid lake.

Finally the prisoners were led away.  The mother walked out of the
court, and was surprised to see that night already hung over the
city, with the lanterns alight in the streets, and the stars shining
in the sky.  Groups composed mainly of young men were crowding near
the courthouse.  The snow crunched in the frozen atmosphere; voices
sounded.  A man in a gray Caucasian cowl looked into Sizov's face
and asked quickly:

"What was the sentence?"

"Exile."

"For all?"

"All."

"Thank you."

The man walked away.

"You see," said Sizov.  "They inquire."

Suddenly they were surrounded by about ten men, youths, and girls,
and explanations rained down, attracting still more people.  The
mother and Sizov stopped.  They were questioned in regard to the
sentence, as to how the prisoners behaved, who delivered the
speeches, and what the speeches were about.  All the voices rang
with the same eager curiosity, sincere and warm, which aroused the
desire to satisfy it.

"People!  This is the mother of Pavel Vlasov!" somebody shouted, and
presently all became silent.

"Permit me to shake your hand."

Somebody's firm hand pressed the mother's fingers, somebody's voice
said excitedly:

"Your son will be an example of manhood for all of us."

"Long live the Russian workingman!" a resonant voice rang out.

"Long live the proletariat!"

"Long live the revolution!"

The shouts grew louder and increased in number, rising up on all
sides.  The people ran from every direction, pushing into the crowd
around the mother and Sizov.  The whistles of the police leaped
through the air, but did not deafen the shouts.  The old man smiled;
and to the mother all this seemed like a pleasant dream.  She smilingly
pressed the hands extended to her and bowed, with joyous tears choking
her throat.  Near her somebody's clear voice said nervously:

"Comrades, friends, the autocracy, the monster which devours the
Russian people to-day again gulped into its bottomless, greedy mouth----"

"However, mother, let's go," said Sizov.  And at the same time Sasha
appeared, caught the mother under her arm, and quickly dragged her
away to the other side of the street.

"Come!  They're going to make arrests.  What?  Exile?  To Siberia?"

"Yes, yes."

"And how did he speak?  I know without your telling me.  He was more
powerful than any of the others, and more simple.  And of course,
sterner than all the rest.  He's sensitive and soft, only he's ashamed
to expose himself.  And he's direct, clear, firm, like truth itself.
He's very great, and there's everything in him, everything!  But he
often constrains himself for nothing, lest he might hinder the cause.
I know it."  Her hot half-whisper, the words of her love, calmed the
mother's agitation, and restored her exhausted strength.

"When will you go to him?" she asked Sasha, pressing her hand to her
body.  Looking confidently before her the girl answered:

"As soon as I find somebody to take over my work.  I have the money
already, but I might go per etappe.  You know I am also awaiting a
sentence.  Evidently they are going to send me to Siberia, too.  I
will then declare that I desire to be exiled to the same locality
that he will be."

Behind them was heard the voice of Sizov:

"Then give him regards from me, from Sizov.  He will know.  I'm
Fedya Mazin's uncle."

Sasha stopped, turned around, extending her hand.  "I'm acquainted
with Fedya.  My name is Alexandra."

"And your patronymic?"

She looked at him and answered:

"I have no father."

"He's dead, you mean?"

"No, he's alive."  Something stubborn, persistent, sounded in the
girl's voice and appeared in her face.  "He's a landowner, a chief
of a country district.  He robs the peasants and beats them.  I
cannot recognize him as my father."

"S-s-o-o!"  Sizov was taken aback.  After a pause he said, looking
at the girl sidewise:

"Well, mother, good-by.  I'm going off to the left.  Stop in sometimes
for a talk and a glass of tea.  Good evening, lady.  You're pretty
hard on your father--of course, that's your business."

"If your son were an ugly man, obnoxious to people, disgusting to
you, wouldn't you say the same about him?" Sasha shouted terribly.

"Well, I would," the old man answered after some hesitation.

"That is to say that justice is dearer to you than your son; and to
me it's dearer than my father."

Sizov smiled, shaking his head; then he said with a sigh:

"Well, well, you're clever.  Good-by.  I wish you all good things,
and be better to people.  Hey?  Well, God be with you.  Good-by,
Nilovna.  When you see Pavel tell him I heard his speech.  I
couldn't understand every bit of it; some things even seemed
horrible; but tell him it's true.  They've found the truth, yes."

He raised his hat, and sedately turned around the corner of the street.

"He seems to be a good man," remarked Sasha, accompanying him with
a smile of her large eyes.  "Such people can be useful to the cause.
It would be good to hide literature with them, for instance."

It seemed to the mother that to-day the girl's face was softer and
kinder than usual, and hearing her remarks about Sizov, she thought:

"Always about the cause.  Even to-day.  It's burned into her heart."



CHAPTER XVII


At home they sat on the sofa closely pressed together, and the
mother resting in the quiet again began to speak about Sasha's
going to Pavel.  Thoughtfully raising her thick eyebrows, the girl
looked into the distance with her large, dreamy eyes.  A contemplative
expression rested on her pale face.

"Then, when children will be born to you, I will come to you and
dandle them.  We'll begin to live there no worse than here.  Pasha
will find work.  He has golden hands."

"Yes," answered Sasha thoughtfully.  "That's good--"  And suddenly
starting, as if throwing something away, she began to speak simply
in a modulated voice.  "He won't commence to live there.  He'll go
away, of course."

"And how will that be?  Suppose, in case of children?"

"I don't know.  We'll see when we are there.  In such a case he
oughtn't to reckon with me, and I cannot constrain him.  He's free
at any moment.  I am his comrade--a wife, of course.  But the
conditions of his work are such that for years and years I cannot
regard our bond as a usual one, like that of others.  It will be
hard, I know it, to part with him; but, of course, I'll manage to.
He knows that I'm not capable of regarding a man as my possession.
I'm not going to constrain him, no."

The mother understood her, felt that she believed what she said,
that she was capable of carrying it out; and she was sorry for her.
She embraced her.

"My dear girl, it will be hard for you."

Sasha smiled softly, nestling her body up to the mother's.  Her
voice sounded mild, but powerful.  Red mounted to her face.

"It's a long time till then; but don't think that I--that it is
hard for me now.  I'm making no sacrifices.  I know what I'm doing,
I know what I may expect.  I'll be happy if I can make him happy.
My aim, my desire is to increase his energy, to give him as much
happiness and love as I can--a great deal.  I love him very much
and he me--I know it--what I bring to him, he will give back to me--
we will enrich each other by all in our power; and, if necessary,
we will part as friends."

Sasha remained silent for a long time, during which the mother and
the young woman sat in a corner of the room, tightly pressed against
each other, thinking of the man whom they loved.  It was quiet,
melancholy, and warm.

Nikolay entered, exhausted, but brisk.  He immediately announced:

"Well, Sashenka, betake yourself away from here, as long as you are
sound.  Two spies have been after me since this morning, and the
attempt at concealment is so evident that it savors of an arrest.
I feel it in my bones--somewhere something has happened.  By the
way, here I have the speech of Pavel.  It's been decided to publish
it at once.  Take it to Liudmila.  Pavel spoke well, Nilovna; and
his speech will play a part.  Look out for spies, Sasha.  Wait a
little while--hide these papers, too.  You might give them to Ivan,
for example."

While he spoke, he vigorously rubbed his frozen hands, and quickly
pulled out the drawers of his table, picking out papers, some of
which he tore up, others he laid aside.  His manner was absorbed,
and his appearance all upset.

"Do you suppose it was long ago that this place was cleared out?
And look at this mass of stuff accumulated already!  The devil!
You see, Nilovna, it would be better for you, too, not to sleep
here to-night.  It's a sorry spectacle to witness, and they may
arrest you, too.  And you'll be needed for carrying Pavel's speech
about from place to place."

"Hm, what do they want me for?  Maybe you're mistaken."

Nikolay waved his forearm in front of his eyes, and said, with conviction:

"I have a keen scent.  Besides, you can be of great help to Liudmila.
Flee far from evil."

The possibility of taking a part in the printing of her son's speech
was pleasant to her, and she answered:

"If so, I'll go.  But don't think I'm afraid."

"Very well.  Now, tell me where my valise and my linen are.  You've
grabbed up everything into your rapacious hands, and I'm completely
robbed of the possibility of disposing of my own private property.
I'm making complete preparations--this will be unpleasant to them."

Sasha burned the papers in silence, and carefully mixed their ashes
with the other cinders in the stove.

"Sasha, go," said Nikolay, putting out his hand to her.  "Good-by.
Don't forget books--if anything new and interesting appears.  Well,
good-by, dear comrade.  Be more careful."

"Do you think it's for long?" asked Sasha.

"The devil knows them!  Evidently.  There's something against me.
Nilovna, are you going with her?  It's harder to track two people--
all right?"

"I'm going."  The mother went to dress herself, and it occurred to
her how little these people who were striving for the freedom of
all cared for their personal freedom.  The simplicity and the
businesslike manner of Nikolay in expecting the arrest both astonished
and touched her.  She tried to observe his face carefully; she
detected nothing but his air of absorption, overshadowing the usual
kindly soft expression of his eyes.  There was no sign of agitation
in this man, dearer to her than the others; he made no fuss.  Equally
attentive to all, alike kind to all, always calmly the same, he
seemed to her just as much a stranger as before to everybody and
everything except his cause.  He seemed remote, living a secret life
within himself and somewhere ahead of people.  Yet she felt that he
resembled her more than any of the others, and she loved him with a
love that was carefully observing and, as it were, did not believe in
itself.  Now she felt painfully sorry for him; but she restrained her
feelings, knowing that to show them would disconcert Nikolay, that he
would become, as always under such circumstances, somewhat ridiculous.

When she returned to the room she found him pressing Sasha's hand
and saying:

"Admirable!  I'm convinced of it.  It's very good for him and for
you.  A little personal happiness does not do any harm; but--a
little, you know, so as not to make him lose his value.  Are you
ready, Nilovna?"  He walked up to her, smiling and adjusting his
glasses.  "Well, good-by.  I want to think that for three months,
four months--well, at most half a year--half a year is a great deal
of a man's life.  In half a year one can do a lot of things.  Take
care of yourself, please, eh?  Come, let's embrace."  Lean and thin
he clasped her neck in his powerful arms, looked into her eyes, and
smiled.  "It seems to me I've fallen in love with you.  I keep
embracing you all the time."

She was silent, kissing his forehead and cheeks, and her hands
quivered.  For fear he might notice it, she unclasped them.

"Go.  Very well.  Be careful to-morrow.  This is what you should
do--send the boy in the morning--Liudmila has a boy for the purpose--
let him go to the house porter and ask him whether I'm home or not.
I'll forewarn the porter; he's a good fellow, and I'm a friend of
his.  Well, good-by, comrades.  I wish you all good."

On the street Sasha said quietly to the mother:

"He'll go as simply as this to his death, if necessary.  And
apparently he'll hurry up a little in just the same way; when
death stares him in the face he'll adjust his eyeglasses, and
will say 'admirable,' and will die."

"I love him," whispered the mother.

"I'm filled with astonishment; but love him--no.  I respect him
highly.  He's sort of dry, although good and even, if you please,
sometimes soft; but not sufficiently human--it seems to me we're
being followed.  Come, let's part.  Don't enter Liudmila's place
if you think a spy is after you."

"I know," said the mother.  Sasha, however, persistently added:
"Don't enter.  In that case, come to me.  Good-by for the present."

She quickly turned around and walked back.  The mother called
"Good-by" after her.

Within a few minutes she sat all frozen through at the stove in
Liudmila's little room.  Her hostess, Liudmila, in a black dress
girded up with a strap, slowly paced up and down the room, filling
it with a rustle and the sound of her commanding voice.  A fire
was crackling in the stove and drawing in the air from the room.
The woman's voice sounded evenly.

"People are a great deal more stupid than bad.  They can see only
what's near to them, what it's possible to grasp immediately; but
everything that's near is cheap; what's distant is dear.  Why, in
reality, it would be more convenient and pleasanter for all if life
were different, were lighter, and the people were more sensible.
But to attain the distant you must disturb yourself for the
immediate present----"

Nilovna tried to guess where this woman did her printing.  The room
had three windows facing the street; there was a sofa and a bookcase,
a table, chairs, a bed at the wall, in the corner near it a wash
basin, in the other corner a stove; on the walls photographs and
pictures.  All was new, solid, clean; and over all the austere
monastic figure of the mistress threw a cold shadow.  Something
concealed, something hidden, made itself felt; but where it lurked
was incomprehensible.  The mother looked at the doors; through one
of them she had entered from the little antechamber.  Near the stove
was another door, narrow and high.

"I have come to you on business," she said in embarrassment,
noticing that the hostess was regarding her.

"I know.  Nobody comes to me for any other reason."

Something strange seemed to be in Liudmila's voice.  The mother
looked in her face.  Liudmila smiled with the corners of her thin
lips, her dull eyes gleamed behind her glasses.  Turning her glance
aside, the mother handed her the speech of Pavel.

"Here.  They ask you to print it at once."

And she began to tell of Nikolay's preparations for the arrest.

Liudmila silently thrust the manuscript into her belt and sat down
on a chair.  A red gleam of the fire was reflected on her spectacles;
its hot smile played on her motionless face.

"When they come to me I'm going to shoot at them," she said with
determination in her moderated voice.  "I have the right to protect
myself against violence; and I must fight with them if I call upon
others to fight.  I cannot understand calmness; I don't like it."

The reflection of the fire glided across her face, and she again
became austere, somewhat haughty.

"Your life is not very pleasant," the mother thought kindly.

Liudmila began to read Pavel's speech, at first reluctantly; then
she bent lower and lower over the paper, quickly throwing aside
the pages as she read them.  When she had finished she rose,
straightened herself, and walked up to the mother.

"That's good.  That's what I like; although here, too, there's
calmness.  But the speech is the sepulchral beat of a drum, and
the drummer is a powerful man."

She reflected a little while, lowering her head for a minute:

"I didn't want to speak with you about your son; I have never met
him, and I don't like sad subjects of conversation.  I know what
it means to have a near one go into exile.  But I want to say to
you, nevertheless, that your son must be a splendid man.  He's
young--that's evident; but he is a great soul.  It must be good
and terrible to have such a son."

"Yes, it's good.  And now it's no longer terrible."

Liudmila settled her smoothly combed hair with her tawny hand and
sighed softly.  A light, warm shadow trembled on her cheeks, the
shadow of a suppressed smile.

"We are going to print it.  Will you help me?"

"Of course."

"I'll set it up quickly.  You lie down; you had a hard day; you're
tired.  Lie down here on the bed; I'm not going to sleep; and at
night maybe I'll wake you up to help me.  When you have lain down,
put out the lamp."

She threw two logs of wood into the stove, straightened herself, and
passed through the narrow door near the stove, firmly closing it
after her.  The mother followed her with her eyes, and began to
undress herself, thinking reluctantly of her hostess:  "A stern
person; and yet her heart burns.  She can't conceal it.  Everyone
loves.  If you don't love you can't live."

Fatigue dizzied her brain; but her soul was strangely calm, and
everything was illumined from within by a soft, kind light which
quietly and evenly filled her breast.  She was already acquainted
with this calm; it had come to her after great agitation.  At first
it had slightly disturbed her; but now it only broadened her soul,
strengthening it with a certain powerful but impalpable thought.
Before her all the time appeared and disappeared the faces of her
son, Andrey, Nikolay, Sasha.  She took delight in them; they passed
by without arousing thought, and only lightly and sadly touching her
heart.  Then she extinguished the lamp, lay down in the cold bed,
shriveled up under the bed coverings, and suddenly sank into a
heavy sleep.



CHAPTER XVIII


When she opened her eyes the room was filled by the cold, white
glimmer of a clear wintry day.  The hostess, with a book in her hand,
lay on the sofa, and smiling unlike herself looked into her face.

"Oh, father!" the mother exclaimed, for some reason embarrassed.
"Just look!  Have I been asleep a long time?"

"Good morning!" answered Liudmila.  "It'll soon be ten o'clock.
Get up and we'll have tea."

"Why didn't you wake me up?"

"I wanted to.  I walked up to you; but you were so fast asleep and
smiled so in your sleep!"

With a supple, powerful movement of her whole body she rose from the
sofa, walked up to the bed, bent toward the face of the mother, and in
her dull eyes the mother saw something dear, near, and comprehensible.

"I was sorry to disturb you.  Maybe you were seeing a happy vision."

"I didn't see anything."

"All the same--but your smile pleased me.  It was so calm, so good--
so great."  Liudmila laughed, and her laugh sounded velvety.  "I
thought of you, of your life--your life is a hard one, isn't it?"

The mother, moving her eyebrows, was silent and thoughtful.

"Of course it's hard!" exclaimed Liudmila.

"I don't know," said the mother carefully.  "Sometimes it seems sort
of hard; there's so much of all, it's all so serious, marvelous, and
it moves along so quickly, one thing after the other--so quickly----"

The wave of bold excitement familiar to her overflowed her breast,
filling her heart with images and thoughts.  She sat up in bed,
quickly clothing her thoughts in words.

"It goes, it goes, it goes all to one thing, to one side, and like a
fire, when a house begins to burn, upward!  Here it shoots forth,
there it blazes out, ever brighter, ever more powerful.  There's a
great deal, of hardship, you know.  People suffer; they are beaten,
cruelly beaten; and everyone is oppressed and watched.  They hide,
live like monks, and many joys are closed to them; it's very hard.
And when you look at them well you see that the hard things, the
evil and difficult, are around them, on the outside, and not within."

Liudmila quickly threw up her head, looked at her with a deep,
embracing look.  The mother felt that her words did not exhaust
her thoughts, which vexed and offended her.

"You're not speaking about yourself," said her hostess softly.

The mother looked at her, arose from the bed, and dressing asked:

"Not about myself?  Yes; you see in this, in all that I live now,
it's hard to think of oneself; how can you withdraw into yourself
when you love this thing, and that thing is dear to you, and you
are afraid for everybody and are sorry for everybody?  Everything
crowds into your heart and draws you to all people.  How can you
step to one side?  It's hard."

Liudmila laughed, saying softly:

"And maybe it's not necessary."

"I don't know whether it's necessary or not; but this I do know--that
people are becoming stronger than life, wiser than life; that's evident."

Standing in the middle of the room, half-dressed, she fell to
reflecting for a moment.  Her real self suddenly appeared not to
exist--the one who lived in anxiety and fear for her son, in thoughts
for the safekeeping of his body.  Such a person in herself was no
longer; she had gone off to a great distance, and perhaps was
altogether burned up by the fire of agitation.  This had lightened
and cleansed her soul, and had renovated her heart with a new power.
She communed with herself, desiring to take a look into her own
heart, and fearing lest she awaken some anxiety there.

"What are you thinking about?" Liudmila asked kindly, walking up to her.

"I don't know."

The two women were silent, looking at each other.  Both smiled; then
Liudmila walked out of the room, saying:

"What is my samovar doing?"

The mother looked through the window.  A cold, bracing day shone
in the street; her breast, too, shone bright, but hot.  She wanted
to speak much about everything, joyfully, with a confused feeling
of gratitude to somebody--she did not know whom--for all that came
into her soul, and lighted it with a ruddy evening light.  A desire
to pray, which she had not felt for a long time, arose in her breast.
Somebody's young face came to her memory, somebody's resonant voice
shouted, "That's the mother of Pavel Vlasov!"  Sasha's eyes flashed
joyously and tenderly.  Rybin's dark, tall figure loomed up, the
bronzed, firm face of her son smiled.  Nikolay blinked in embarrassment;
and suddenly everything was stirred with a deep but light breath.

"Nikolay was right," said Liudmila, entering again.  "He must surely
have been arrested.  I sent the boy there, as you told me to.  He
said policemen are hiding in the yard; he did not see the house
porter; but he saw the policeman who was hiding behind the gates.
And spies are sauntering about; the boy knows them."

"So?"  The mother nodded her head.  "Ah, poor fellow!"

And she sighed, but without sadness, and was quietly surprised at herself.

"Lately he's been reading a great deal to the city workingmen; and
in general it was time for him to disappear," Liudmila said with a
frown.  "The comrades told him to go, but he didn't obey them.  I
think that in such cases you must compel and not try to persuade."

A dark-haired, red-faced boy with beautiful eyes and a hooked nose
appeared in the doorway.

"Shall I bring in the samovar?" he asked in a ringing voice.

"Yes, please, Seryozha.  This is my pupil; have you never met him before?"

"No."

"He used to go to Nikolay sometimes; I sent him."

Liudmila seemed to the mother to be different to-day--simpler and
nearer to her.  In the supple swaying of her stately figure there
was much beauty and power; her sternness had mildened; the circles
under her eyes had grown larger during the night, her face paler
and leaner; her large eyes had deepened.  One perceived a strained
exertion in her, a tightly drawn chord in her soul.

The boy brought in the samovar.

"Let me introduce you:  Seryozha--Pelagueya Nilovna, the mother of
the workingman whom they sentenced yesterday."

Seryozha bowed silently and pressed the mother's hand.  Then he
brought in bread, and sat down to the table.  Liudmila persuaded
the mother not to go home until they found out whom the police
were waiting for there.

"Maybe they are waiting for you.  I'm sure they'll examine you."

"Let them.  And if they arrest me, no great harm.  Only I'd like
to have Pasha's speech sent off."

"It's already in type.  To-morrow it'll be possible to have it for
the city and the suburb.  We'll have some for the districts, too.
Do you know Natasha?"

"Of course!"

"Then take it to her."

The boy read the newspaper, and seemed not to be listening to the
conversation; but at times his eyes looked from the pages of the
newspaper into the face of the mother; and when she met their
animated glance she felt pleased and smiled.  She reproached herself
for these smiles.  Liudmila again mentioned Nikolay without any
expression of regret for his arrest and, to the mother, it seemed
in perfectly natural tones.  The time passed more quickly than on
the other days.  When they had done drinking tea it was already
near midday.

"However!" exclaimed Liudmila, and at the same time a knock at the
door was heard.  The boy rose, looked inquiringly at Liudmila,
prettily screwing up his eyes.

"Open the door, Seryozha.  Who do you suppose it is?"  And with a
composed gesture she let her hand into the pocket of the skirt,
saying to the mother:  "If it is the gendarmes, you, Pelagueya
Nilovna, stand here in this corner, and you, Ser----"

"I know.  The dark passage," the little boy answered softly, disappearing.

The mother smiled.  These preparations did not disturb her; she had
no premonition of a misfortune.

The little physician walked in.  He quickly said:

"First of all, Nikolay is arrested.  Aha!  You here, Nilovna?  They're
interested in you, too.  Weren't you there when he was arrested?"

"He packed me off, and told me to come here."

"Hm!  I don't think it will be of any use to you.  Secondly, last
night several young people made about five hundred hektograph copies
of Pavel's speech--not badly done, plain and clear.  They want to
scatter them throughout the city at night.  I'm against it.  Printed
sheets are better for the city, and the hektograph copies ought to
be sent off somewhere."

"Here, I'll carry them to Natasha!" the mother exclaimed animatedly.
"Give them to me."

She was seized with a great desire to sow them broadcast, to spread
Pavel's speech as soon as possible.  She would have bestrewn the
whole earth with the words of her son, and she looked into the
doctor's face with eyes ready to beg.

"The devil knows whether at this time you ought to take up this
matter," the physician said irresolutely, and took out his watch.
"It's now twelve minutes of twelve.  The train leaves at 2.05,
arrives there 5.15.  You'll get there in the evening, but not
sufficiently late--and that's not the point!"

"That's not the point," repeated Liudmila, frowning.

"What then?" asked the mother, drawing up to them.  "The point is
to do it well; and I'll do it all right."

Liudmila looked fixedly at her, and chafing her forehead, remarked:

"It's dangerous for you."

"Why?" the mother challenged hotly.

"That's why!" said the physician quickly and brokenly.  "You
disappeared from home an hour before Nikolay's arrest.  You went
away to the mill, where you are known as the teacher's aunt; after
your arrival at the mill the naughty leaflets appear.  All this
will tie itself into a noose around your neck."

"They won't notice me there," the mother assured them, warming to
her desire.  "When I return they'll arrest me, and ask me where I
was."  After a moment's pause she exclaimed:  "I know what I'll say.
From there I'll go straight to the suburb; I have a friend there--
Sizov.  So I'll say that I went there straight from the trial; grief
took me there; and he, too, had the same misfortune, his nephew was
sentenced; and I spent the whole time with him.  He'll uphold me,
too.  Do you see?"

The mother was aware that they were succumbing to the strength of
her desire, and strove to induce them to give in as quickly as
possible.  She spoke more and more persistently, joy arising within
her.  And they yielded.

"Well, go," the physician reluctantly assented.

Liudmila was silent, pacing thoughtfully up and down the room.  Her
face clouded over and her cheeks fell in.  The muscles of her neck
stretched noticeably as if her head had suddenly grown heavy; it
involuntarily dropped on her breast.  The mother observed this.
The physician's reluctant assent forced a sigh from her.

"You all take care of me," the mother said, smiling.  "You don't take
care of yourselves."  And the wave of joy mounted higher and higher.

"It isn't true.  We look out for ourselves.  We ought to; and we
very much upbraid those who uselessly waste their power.  Ye-es.
Now, this is the way you are to do.  You will receive the speeches
at the station."  He explained to her how the matter would be
arranged; then looking into her face, he said:  "Well, I wish you
success.  You're happy, aren't you?"  And he walked away still
gloomy and dissatisfied.  When the door closed behind him Liudmila
walked up to the mother, smiling quietly.

"You're a fine woman!  I understand you."  Taking her by the arm,
she again walked up and down the room.  "I have a son, too.  He's
already thirteen years old; but he lives with his father.  My
husband is an assistant prosecuting attorney.  Maybe he's already
prosecuting attorney.  And the boy's with him.  What is he going
to be? I often think."  Her humid, powerful voice trembled.  Then
her speech flowed on again thoughtfully and quietly.  "He's being
brought up by a professed enemy of those people who are near me,
whom I regard as the best people on earth; and maybe the boy will
grow up to be my enemy.  He cannot live with me; I live under a
strange name.  I have not seen him for eight years.  That's a long
time--eight years!"

Stopping at the window, she looked up at the pale, bleak sky, and
continued:  "If he were with me I would be stronger; I would not
have this wound in my heart, the wound that always pains.  And even
if he were dead it would be easier for me--"  She paused again, and
added more firmly and loudly:  "Then I would know he's merely dead,
but not an enemy of that which is higher than the feeling of a
mother, dearer and more necessary than life."

"My darling," said the mother quietly, feeling as if something
powerful were burning her heart.

"Yes, you are happy," Liudmila said with a smile.  "It's magnificent
--the mother and the son side by side.  It's rare!"

The mother unexpectedly to herself exclaimed:

"Yes, it is good!" and as if disclosing a secret, she continued in a
lowered voice:  "It is another life.  All of you--Nikolay Ivanovich,
all the people of the cause of truth--are also side by side.
Suddenly people have become kin--I understand all--the words I don't
understand; but everything else I understand, everything!"

"That's how it is," Liudmila said.  "That's how."

The mother put her hand on Liudmila's breast, pressing her; she spoke
almost in a whisper, as if herself meditating upon the words she spoke.

"Children go through the world; that's what I understand; children
go into the world, over all the earth, from everywhere toward one
thing.  The best hearts go; people of honest minds; they relentlessly
attack all evil, all darkness.  They go, they trample falsehood with
heavy feet, understanding everything, justifying everybody--justifying
everybody, they go.  Young, strong, they carry their power, their
invincible power, all toward one thing--toward justice.  They go to
conquer all human misery, they arm themselves to wipe away misfortune
from the face of the earth; they go to subdue what is monstrous, and
they will subdue it.  We will kindle a new sun, somebody told me; and
they will kindle it.  We will create one heart in life, we will unite
all the severed hearts into one--and they will unite them.  We will
cleanse the whole of life--and they will cleanse it."

She waved her hand toward the sky.

"There's the sun."

And she struck her bosom.

"Here the most glorious heavenly sun of human happiness will be
kindled, and it will light up the earth forever--the whole of it,
and all that live upon it--with the light of love, the love of every
man toward all, and toward everything."

The words of forgotten prayers recurred to her mind, inspiring a
new faith.  She threw them from her heart like sparks.

"The children walking along the road of truth and reason carry love
to all; and they clothe everything in new skies; they illumine
everything with an incorruptible fire issuing from the depths of the
soul.  Thus, a new life comes into being, born of the children's
love for the entire world; and who will extinguish this love--who?
What power is higher than this?  Who will subdue it?  The earth has
brought it forth; and all life desires its victory--all life.  Shed
rivers of blood, nay, seas of blood, you'll never extinguish it."

She shook herself away from Liudmila, fatigued by her exaltation,
and sat down, breathing heavily.  Liudmila also withdrew from her,
noiselessly, carefully, as if afraid of destroying something.  With
supple movement she walked about the room and looked in front of her
with the deep gaze of her dim eyes.  She seemed still taller,
straighter, and thinner; her lean, stern face wore a concentrated
expression, and her lips were nervously compressed.  The stillness
in the room soon calmed the mother, and noticing Liudmila's mood she
asked guiltily and softly:

"Maybe I said something that wasn't quite right?"

Liudmila quickly turned around and looked at her as if in fright.

"It's all right," she said rapidly, stretching out her hand to the
mother as if desiring to arrest something.  "But we'll not speak
about it any more.  Let it remain as it was said; let it remain.
Yes."  And in a calmer tone she continued:  "It's time for you to
start soon; it's far."

"Yes, presently.  I'm glad!  Oh, how glad I am!  If you only knew!
I'm going to carry the word of my son, the word of my blood.  Why,
it's like one's own soul!"

She smiled; but her smile did not find a clear reflection in the
face of Liudmila.  The mother felt that Liudmila chilled her joy
by her restraint; and the stubborn desire suddenly arose in her to
pour into that obstinate soul enveloped in misery her own fire, to
burn her, too, let her, too, sound in unison with her own heart full
of joy.  She took Liudmila's hands and pressed them powerfully.

"My dear, how good it is when you know that light for all the people
already exists in life, and that there will be a time when they will
begin to see it, when they will bathe their souls in it, and all,
all, will take fire in its unquenchable flames."

Her good, large face quivered; her eyes smiled radiantly; and her
eyebrows trembled over them as if pinioning their flash.  The great
thoughts intoxicated her; she put into them everything that burned
her heart, everything she had lived through; and she compressed the
thoughts into firm, capacious crystals of luminous words.  They grew
up ever more powerful in the autumn heart, illuminated by the
creative force of the spring sun; they blossomed and reddened in it
ever more brightly.

"Why, this is like a new god that's born to us, the people.
Everything for all; all for everything; the whole of life in one,
and the whole of life for everyone, and everyone for the whole of
life!  Thus I understand all of you; it is for this that you are
on this earth, I see.  You are in truth comrades all, kinsmen all,
for you are all children of one mother, of truth.  Truth has brought
you forth; and by her power you live!"

Again overcome by the wave of agitation, she stopped, fetched
breath, and spread out her arms as if for an embrace.

"And if I pronounce to myself that word 'comrades' then I hear with
my heart--they are going!  They are going from everywhere, the great
multitude, all to one thing.  I hear such a roaring, resonant and
joyous, like the festive peal of the bells of all the churches of
the world."

She had arrived at what she desired.  Liudmila's face flashed in
amazement.  Her lips quivered; and one after the other large
transparent tears dropped from her dull eyes and rolled down
her cheeks.

The mother embraced her vigorously and laughed softly, lightly taking
pride in the victory of her heart.  When they took leave of each
other Liudmila looked into the mother's face, and asked her softly:

"Do you know that it is well with you?"  And herself supplied the
answer:  "Very well.  Like a morning on a high mountain."



CHAPTER XIX


In the street the frozen atmosphere enveloped her body invigoratingly,
penetrated into her throat, tickled her nose, and for a second
suppressed the breathing in her bosom.  The mother stopped and
looked around.  Near to her, at the corner of the empty street,
stood a cabman in a shaggy hat; at a slight distance a man was
walking, bent, his head sunk in his shoulders; and in front of
him a soldier was running in a jump, rubbing his ears.

"The soldier must have been sent to the store," she thought, and
walked off listening with satisfaction to the youthful crunching
of the snow under her feet.  She arrived at the station early; her
train was not yet ready; but in the dirty waiting room of the third
class, blackened with smoke, there were numerous people already.
The cold drove in the railroad workmen; cabmen and some poorly
dressed, homeless people came in to warm themselves; there were
passengers, also a few peasants, a stout merchant in a raccoon
overcoat, a priest and his daughter, a pockmarked girl, some five
soldiers, and bustling tradesmen.  The men smoked, talked, drank
tea and whisky at the buffet; some one laughed boisterously; a wave
of smoke was wafted overhead; the door squeaked as it opened, the
windows rattled when the door was jammed to; the odor of tobacco,
machine oil, and salt fish thickly beat into the nostrils.

The mother sat near the entrance and waited.  When the door opened
a whiff of fresh air struck her, which was pleasant to her, and
she took in deep breaths.  Heavily dressed people came in with
bundles in their hands; they clumsily pushed through the door,
swore, mumbled, threw their things on the bench or on the floor,
shook off the dry rime from the collars of their overcoats and
their sleeves and wiped it off their beards and mustaches, all the
time puffing and blowing.

A young man entered with a yellow valise in his hand, quickly looked
around, and walked straight to the mother.

"To Moscow, to your niece?" he asked in a low voice.

"Yes, to Tanya."

"Very well."

He put the valise on the bench near her, quickly whipped out a
cigarette, lighted it, and raising his hat, silently walked toward
the other door.  The mother stroked the cold skin of the valise,
leaned her elbows on it, and, satisfied, began again to look around
at the people.  In a few moments she arose and walked over to the
other bench, nearer to the exit to the platform.  She held the
valise lightly in her hand; it was not large, and she walked with
raised head, scanning the faces that flashed before her.

One man in a short overcoat and its collar raised jostled against
her and jumped back, silently waving his hand toward his head.
Something familiar about him struck her; she glanced around and saw
that he was looking at her with one eye gleaming out of his collar.
This attentive eye pricked her; the hand in which she held the
valise trembled; she felt a dull pain in her shoulder, and the load
suddenly grew heavy.

"I've seen him somewhere," she thought, and with the thought
suppressed the unpleasant, confused feeling in her breast.  She
would not permit herself to define the cold sensation that already
pressed her heart quietly but powerfully.  It grew and rose in her
throat, filling her mouth with a dry, bitter taste, and compelling
her to turn around and look once more.  As she turned he carefully
shifted from one foot to the other, standing on the same spot; it
seemed he wanted something, but could not decide what.  His right
hand was thrust between the buttons of his coat, the other he kept
in his pocket.  On account of this the right shoulder seemed higher
than the left.

Without hastening, she walked to the bench and sat down carefully,
slowly, as if afraid of tearing something in herself or on herself.
Her memory, aroused by a sharp premonition of misfortune, quickly
presented this man twice to her imagination--once in the field
outside the city, after the escape of Rybin; a second time in the
evening in the court.  There at his side stood the constable to
whom she had pointed out the false way taken by Rybin.  They knew
her; they were tracking her--this was evident.

"Am I caught?" she asked, and in the following second answered
herself, starting:  "Maybe there is still--" and immediately forcing
herself with a great effort, she said sternly:  "I'm caught.  No use."

She looked around, and her thoughts flashed up in sparks and expired
in her brain one after the other.

"Leave the valise?  Go away?"

But at the same time another spark darted up more glaringly:  "How
much will be lost?  Drop the son's word in such hands?"

She pressed the valise to herself trembling.  "And to go away with
it?  Where?  To run?"

These thoughts seemed to her those of a stranger, somebody from the
outside, who was pushing them on her by main force.  They burned
her, and their burns chopped her brain painfully, lashed her heart
like fiery whipcords.  They were an insult to the mother; they
seemed to be driving her away from her own self, from Pavel, and
everything which had grown to her heart.  She felt that a stubborn,
hostile force oppressed her, squeezed her shoulder and breast,
lowered her stature, plunging her into a fatal fear.  The veins on
her temples began to pulsate vigorously, and the roots of her hair
grew warm.

Then with one great and sharp effort of her heart, which seemed
to shake her entire being, she quenched all these cunning, petty,
feeble little fires, saying sternly to herself:  "Enough!"

She at once began to feel better, and she grew strengthened
altogether, adding:  "Don't disgrace your son.  Nobody's afraid."

Several seconds of wavering seemed to have the effect of joining
everything in her; her heart began to beat calmly.

"What's going to happen now?  How will they go about it with me?"
she thought, her senses strung to a keener observation.

The spy called a station guard, and whispered something to him,
directing his look toward her.  The guard glanced at him and moved
back.  Another guard came, listened, grinned, and lowered his brows.
He was an old man, coarse-built, gray, unshaven.  He nodded his head
to the spy, and walked up to the bench where the mother sat.  The
spy quickly disappeared.

The old man strode leisurely toward the mother, intently thrusting
his angry eyes into the mother's face.  She sat farther back on the
bench, trembling.  "If they only don't beat me, if they only don't
beat me!"

He stopped at her side; she raised her eyes to his face.

"What are you looking at?" he asked in a moderated voice.

"Nothing."

"Hm!  Thief!  So old and yet----"

It seemed to her that his words struck her face once, twice, rough
and hoarse; they wounded her, as if they tore her cheeks, ripped
out her eyes.

"I'm not a thief!  You lie!" she shouted with all the power of her
chest; and everything before her jumped and began to whirl in a
whirlwind of revolt, intoxicating her heart with the bitterness of
insult.  She jerked the valise, and it opened.

"Look! look!  All you people!" she shouted, standing up and waving
the bundle of the proclamations she had quickly seized over her
head.  Through the noise in her ears she heard the exclamations of
the people who came running up, and she saw them pouring in quickly
from all directions.

"What is it?"

"There's a spy!"

"What's the matter?"

"She's a thief, they say!"

"She?"

"Would a thief shout?"

"Such a respectable one!  My, my, my!"

"Whom did they catch?"

"I'm not a thief," said the mother in a full voice, somewhat calmed
at the sight of the people who pressed closely upon her from all sides.

"Yesterday they tried the political prisoners; my son was one of
them, Vlasov.  He made a speech.  Here it is.  I'm carrying it to
the people in order that they should read, think about the truth."

One paper was carefully pulled from her hands.  She waved the papers
in the air and flung them into the crowd.

"She won't get any praise for that, either!" somebody exclaimed
in a frightened voice.

"Whee-ee-w!" was the response.

The mother saw that the papers were being snatched up, were being
hidden in breasts and pockets.  This again put her firmly on her
feet; more composed than forceful, straining herself to her utmost,
and feeling how agitated pride grew in her raising her high above
the people, how subdued joy flamed up in her, she spoke, snatching
bundles of papers from the valise and throwing them right and left
into some person's quick, greedy hands.

"For this they sentenced my son and all with him.  Do you know?  I
will tell you, and you believe the heart of a mother; believe her
gray hair.  Yesterday they sentenced them because they carried to
you, to all the people, the honest, sacred truth.  How do you live?"

The crowd grew silent in amazement, and noiselessly increased in
size, pressing closer and closer together, surrounding the woman
with a ring of living bodies.

"Poverty, hunger, and sickness--that's what work gives to the poor
people.  This order of things pushes us to theft and to corruption;
and over us, satiated and calm, live the rich.  In order that we
should obey the police, the authorities, the soldiers, all are in
their hands, all are against us, everything is against us.  We
perish all our lives day after day in toil, always in filth, in
deceit.  And others enjoy themselves and gormandize themselves with
our labor; and they hold us like dogs on chains, in ignorance.  We
know nothing, and in terror we fear everything.  Our life is night,
a dark night; it is a terrible dream.  They have poisoned us with
strong intoxicating poison, and they drink our blood.  They glut
themselves to corpulence, to vomiting--the servants of the devil of
greed.  Is it not so?"

"It's so!" came a dull answer.

Back of the crowd the mother noticed the spy and two gendarmes.
She hastened to give away the last bundles; but when her hand
let itself down into the valise it met another strange hand.

"Take it, take it all!" she said, bending down.

A dirty face raised itself to hers, and a low whisper reached her:

"Whom shall I tell?  Whom inform?"

She did not answer.

"In order to change this life, in order to free all the people,
to raise them from the dead, as I have been raised, some persons
have already come who secretly saw the truth in life; secretly,
because, you know, no one can say the truth aloud.  They hunt you
down, they stifle you; they make you rot in prison, they mutilate
you.  Wealth is a force, not a friend to truth.  Thus far truth is
the sworn enemy to the power of the rich, an irreconcilable enemy
forever!  Our children are carrying the truth into the world.
Bright people, clean people are carrying it to you. Thus far there
are few of them; they are not powerful; but they grow in number
every day.  They put their young hearts into free truth, they are
making it an invincible power.  Along the route of their hearts
it will enter into our hard life; it will warm us, enliven us,
emancipate us from the oppression of the rich and from all who
have sold their souls.  Believe this."

"Out of the way here!" shouted the gendarmes, pushing the people.
They gave way to the jostling unwillingly, pressed the gendarmes
with their mass, hindered them perhaps without desiring to do so.
The gray-haired woman with the large, honest eyes in her kind face
attracted them powerfully; and those whom life held asunder, whom it
tore from one another, now blended into a whole, warmed by the fire
of the fearless words which, perhaps, they had long been seeking and
thirsting for in their hearts--their hearts insulted and revolted by
the injustice of their severe life.  Those who were near stood in
silence.  The mother saw their gloomy faces, their frowning brows,
their eyes, and felt their warm breath on her face.

"Get up on the bench," they said.

"I'll be arrested immediately.  It's not necessary."

"Speak quicker!  They're coming!"

"Go to meet the honest people.  Seek those who advise all the poor
disinherited.  Don't be reconciled, comrades, don't!  Don't yield
to the power of the powerful.  Arise, you working people! you are
the masters of life!  All live by your labor; and only for your
labor do they untie your hands.  Behold! you are bound, and they
have killed, robbed your soul.  Unite with your heart and your mind
into one power.  It will overcome everything.  You have no friends
except yourselves.  That's what their only friends say to the working
people, their friends who go to them and perish on the road to
prison.  Not so would dishonest people speak, not so deceivers."

"Out of the way!  Disperse!" the shouts of the gendarmes came nearer
and nearer.  There were more of them already; they pushed more
forcibly; and the people in front of the mother swayed, catching
hold of one another.

"Is that all you have in the valise?" whispered somebody.

"Take it!  Take all!" said the mother aloud, feeling that the words
disposed themselves into a song in her breast, and noticing with
pain that her voice did not hold out, that it was hoarse, trembled,
and broke.

"The word of my son is the honest word of a workingman, of an unsold
soul.  You will recognize its incorruptibility by its boldness.  It
is fearless, and if necessary it goes even against itself to meet
the truth.  It goes to you, working people, incorruptible, wise,
fearless.  Receive it with an open heart, feed on it; it will give
you the power to understand everything, to fight against everything
for the truth, for the freedom of mankind.  Receive it, believe it,
go with it toward the happiness of all the people, to a new life
with great joy!"

She received a blow on the chest; she staggered and fell on the
bench.  The gendarmes' hands darted over the heads of the people,
and seizing collars and shoulders, threw them aside, tore off hats,
flung them far away.  Everything grew dark and began to whirl before
the eyes of the mother.  But overcoming her fatigue, she again
shouted with the remnants of her power:

"People, gather up your forces into one single force!"

A large gendarme caught her collar with his red hand and shook her.

"Keep quiet!"

The nape of her neck struck the wall; her heart was enveloped for
a second in the stifling smoke of terror; but it blazed forth again
clearly, dispelling the smoke.

"Go!" said the gendarme.

"Fear nothing!  There are no tortures worse than those which you
endure all your lives!"

"Silence, I say!"  The gendarme took her by the arm and pulled her;
another seized her by the other arm, and taking long steps, they
led her away.

"There are no tortures more bitter than those which quietly gnaw
at your heart every day, waste your breast, and drain your power."

The spy came running up, and shaking his fist in her face, shouted:

"Silence, you old hag!"

Her eyes widened, sparkled; her jaws quivered.  Planting her feet
firmly on the slippery stones of the floor, she shouted, gathering
the last remnants of her strength:

"The resuscitated soul they will not kill."

"Dog!"

The spy struck her face with a short swing of his hand.

Something black and red blinded her eyes for a second.  The salty
taste of blood filled her mouth.

A clear outburst of shouts animated her:

"Don't dare to beat her!"

"Boys!"

"What is it?"

"Oh, you scoundrel!"

"Give it to him!"

"They will not drown reason in blood; they will not extinguish its truth!"

She was pushed in the neck and the back, beaten about the shoulders,
on the head.  Everything began to turn around, grow giddy in a dark
whirlwind of shouts, howls, whistles.  Something thick and deafening
crept into her ear, beat in her throat, choked her.  The floor under
her feet began to shake, giving way.  Her legs bent, her body
trembled, burned with pain, grew heavy, and staggered powerless.
But her eyes were not extinguished, and they saw many other eyes
which flashed and gleamed with the bold sharp fire known to her,
with the fire dear to her heart.

She was pushed somewhere into a door.

She snatched her hand away from the gendarmes and caught hold of
the doorpost.

"You will not drown the truth in seas of blood----"

They struck her hand.

"You heap up only malice on yourself, you unwise ones!  It will fall
on you----"

Somebody seized her neck and began to choke her.  There was a rattle
in her throat.

"You poor, sorry creatures----"











Edited by Charles Aldarondo Aldarondo@yahoo.com




MUTUAL AID

A FACTOR OF EVOLUTION

BY P. KROPOTKIN

1902






INTRODUCTION





Two aspects of animal life impressed me most during the
journeys which I made in my youth in Eastern Siberia and Northern
Manchuria. One of them was the extreme severity of the struggle
for existence which most species of animals have to carry on
against an inclement Nature; the enormous destruction of life
which periodically results from natural agencies; and the
consequent paucity of life over the vast territory which fell
under my observation. And the other was, that even in those few
spots where animal life teemed in abundance, I failed to find--
although I was eagerly looking for it--that bitter struggle for
the means of existence, among animals belonging to the same
species, which was considered by most Darwinists (though not
always by Darwin himself) as the dominant characteristic of
struggle for life, and the main factor of evolution.

The terrible snow-storms which sweep over the northern
portion of Eurasia in the later part of the winter, and the
glazed frost that often follows them; the frosts and the
snow-storms which return every year in the second half of May,
when the trees are already in full blossom and insect life swarms
everywhere; the early frosts and, occasionally, the heavy
snowfalls in July and August, which suddenly destroy myriads of
insects, as well as the second broods of the birds in the
prairies; the torrential rains, due to the monsoons, which fall
in more temperate regions in August and September--resulting in
inundations on a scale which is only known in America and in
Eastern Asia, and swamping, on the plateaus, areas as wide as
European States; and finally, the heavy snowfalls, early in
October, which eventually render a territory as large as France
and Germany, absolutely impracticable for ruminants, and destroy
them by the thousand--these were the conditions under which I
saw animal life struggling in Northern Asia. They made me realize
at an early date the overwhelming importance in Nature of what
Darwin described as "the natural checks to over-multiplication,"
in comparison to the struggle between individuals of the same
species for the means of subsistence, which may go on here and
there, to some limited extent, but never attains the importance
of the former. Paucity of life, under-population--not
over-population--being the distinctive feature of that immense
part of the globe which we name Northern Asia, I conceived since
then serious doubts--which subsequent study has only confirmed--
as to the reality of that fearful competition for food and
life within each species, which was an article of faith with most
Darwinists, and, consequently, as to the dominant part which this
sort of competition was supposed to play in the evolution of new
species.

On the other hand, wherever I saw animal life in abundance,
as, for instance, on the lakes where scores of species and
millions of individuals came together to rear their progeny; in
the colonies of rodents; in the migrations of birds which took
place at that time on a truly American scale along the Usuri; and
especially in a migration of fallow-deer which I witnessed on the
Amur, and during which scores of thousands of these intelligent
animals came together from an immense territory, flying before
the coming deep snow, in order to cross the Amur where it is
narrowest--in all these scenes of animal life which passed
before my eyes, I saw Mutual Aid and Mutual Support carried on to
an extent which made me suspect in it a feature of the greatest
importance for the maintenance of life, the preservation of each
species, and its further evolution.

And finally, I saw among the semi-wild cattle and horses in
Transbaikalia, among the wild ruminants everywhere, the
squirrels, and so on, that when animals have to struggle against
scarcity of food, in consequence of one of the above-mentioned
causes, the whole of that portion of the species which is
affected by the calamity, comes out of the ordeal so much
impoverished in vigour and health, that no progressive evolution
of the species can be based upon such periods of keen
competition.

Consequently, when my attention was drawn, later on, to the
relations between Darwinism and Sociology, I could agree with
none of the works and pamphlets that had been written upon this
important subject. They all endeavoured to prove that Man, owing
to his higher intelligence and knowledge, may mitigate the
harshness of the struggle for life between men; but they all
recognized at the same time that the struggle for the means of
existence, of every animal against all its congeners, and of
every man against all other men, was "a law of Nature." This
view, however, I could not accept, because I was persuaded that
to admit a pitiless inner war for life within each species, and
to see in that war a condition of progress, was to admit
something which not only had not yet been proved, but also lacked
confirmation from direct observation.

On the contrary, a lecture "On the Law of Mutual Aid," which
was delivered at a Russian Congress of Naturalists, in January
1880, by the well-known zoologist, Professor Kessler, the then
Dean of the St. Petersburg University, struck me as throwing a
new light on the whole subject. Kessler's idea was, that besides
the law of Mutual Struggle there is in Nature the law of Mutual
Aid, which, for the success of the struggle for life, and
especially for the progressive evolution of the species, is far
more important than the law of mutual contest. This suggestion--
which was, in reality, nothing but a further development of the
ideas expressed by Darwin himself in The Descent of Man--seemed
to me so correct and of so great an importance, that since I
became acquainted with it (in 1883) I began to collect materials
for further developing the idea, which Kessler had only cursorily
sketched in his lecture, but had not lived to develop. He died in
1881.

In one point only I could not entirely endorse Kessler's
views. Kessler alluded to "parental feeling" and care for progeny
(see below, Chapter I) as to the source of mutual inclinations in
animals. However, to determine how far these two feelings have
really been at work in the evolution of sociable instincts, and
how far other instincts have been at work in the same direction,
seems to me a quite distinct and a very wide question, which we
hardly can discuss yet. It will be only after we have well
established the facts of mutual aid in different classes of
animals, and their importance for evolution, that we shall be
able to study what belongs in the evolution of sociable feelings,
to parental feelings, and what to sociability proper--the
latter having evidently its origin at the earliest stages of the
evolution of the animal world, perhaps even at the
"colony-stages." I consequently directed my chief attention to
establishing first of all, the importance of the Mutual Aid
factor of evolution, leaving to ulterior research the task of
discovering the origin of the Mutual Aid instinct in Nature.

The importance of the Mutual Aid factor--"if its generality
could only be demonstrated"--did not escape the naturalist's
genius so manifest in Goethe. When Eckermann told once to Goethe--
it was in 1827--that two little wren-fledglings, which had
run away from him, were found by him next day in the nest of
robin redbreasts (Rothkehlchen), which fed the little ones,
together with their own youngsters, Goethe grew quite excited
about this fact. He saw in it a confirmation of his pantheistic
views, and said:--"If it be true that this feeding of a
stranger goes through all Nature as something having the
character of a general law--then many an enigma would be
solved. "He returned to this matter on the next day, and most
earnestly entreated Eckermann (who was, as is known, a zoologist)
to make a special study of the subject, adding that he would
surely come "to quite invaluable treasuries of results"
(Gesprache, edition of 1848, vol. iii. pp. 219, 221).
Unfortunately, this study was never made, although it is very
possible that Brehm, who has accumulated in his works such rich
materials relative to mutual aid among animals, might have been
inspired by Goethe's remark.

Several works of importance were published in the years
1872-1886, dealing with the intelligence and the mental life of
animals (they are mentioned in a footnote in Chapter I of this
book), and three of them dealt more especially with the subject
under consideration; namely, Les Societes animales, by Espinas
(Paris, 1877); La Lutte pour l'existence et l'association pout la
lutte, a lecture by J.L. Lanessan (April 1881); and Louis
Buchner's book, Liebe und Liebes-Leben in der Thierwelt, of which
the first edition appeared in 1882 or 1883, and a second, much
enlarged, in 1885. But excellent though each of these works is,
they leave ample room for a work in which Mutual Aid would be
considered, not only as an argument in favour of a pre-human
origin of moral instincts, but also as a law of Nature and a
factor of evolution. Espinas devoted his main attention to such
animal societies (ants, bees) as are established upon a
physiological division of labour, and though his work is full of
admirable hints in all possible directions, it was written at a
time when the evolution of human societies could not yet be
treated with the knowledge we now possess. Lanessan's lecture has
more the character of a brilliantly laid-out general plan of a
work, in which mutual support would be dealt with, beginning with
rocks in the sea, and then passing in review the world of plants,
of animals and men. As to Buchner's work, suggestive though it is
and rich in facts, I could not agree with its leading idea. The
book begins with a hymn to Love, and nearly all its illustrations
are intended to prove the existence of love and sympathy among
animals. However, to reduce animal sociability to love and
sympathy means to reduce its generality and its importance, just
as human ethics based upon love and personal sympathy only have
contributed to narrow the comprehension of the moral feeling as a
whole. It is not love to my neighbour--whom I often do not know
at all--which induces me to seize a pail of water and to rush
towards his house when I see it on fire; it is a far wider, even
though more vague feeling or instinct of human solidarity and
sociability which moves me. So it is also with animals. It is not
love, and not even sympathy (understood in its proper sense)
which induces a herd of ruminants or of horses to form a ring in
order to resist an attack of wolves; not love which induces
wolves to form a pack for hunting; not love which induces kittens
or lambs to play, or a dozen of species of young birds to spend
their days together in the autumn; and it is neither love nor
personal sympathy which induces many thousand fallow-deer
scattered over a territory as large as France to form into a
score of separate herds, all marching towards a given spot, in
order to cross there a river. It is a feeling infinitely wider
than love or personal sympathy--an instinct that has been
slowly developed among animals and men in the course of an
extremely long evolution, and which has taught animals and men
alike the force they can borrow from the practice of mutual aid
and support, and the joys they can find in social life.

The importance of this distinction will be easily appreciated
by the student of animal psychology, and the more so by the
student of human ethics. Love, sympathy and self-sacrifice
certainly play an immense part in the progressive development of
our moral feelings. But it is not love and not even sympathy upon
which Society is based in mankind. It is the conscience--be it
only at the stage of an instinct--of human solidarity. It is
the unconscious recognition of the force that is borrowed by each
man from the practice of mutual aid; of the close dependency of
every one's happiness upon the happiness of all; and of the sense
of justice, or equity, which brings the individual to consider
the rights of every other individual as equal to his own. Upon
this broad and necessary foundation the still higher moral
feelings are developed. But this subject lies outside the scope
of the present work, and I shall only indicate here a lecture,
"Justice and Morality" which I delivered in reply to Huxley's
Ethics, and in which the subject has been treated at some length.

Consequently I thought that a book, written on Mutual Aid as
a Law of Nature and a factor of evolution, might fill an
important gap. When Huxley issued, in 1888, his
"Struggle-for-life" manifesto (Struggle for Existence and its
Bearing upon Man), which to my appreciation was a very incorrect
representation of the facts of Nature, as one sees them in the
bush and in the forest, I communicated with the editor of the
Nineteenth Century, asking him whether he would give the
hospitality of his review to an elaborate reply to the views of
one of the most prominent Darwinists; and Mr. James Knowles
received the proposal with fullest sympathy. I also spoke of it
to W. Bates. "Yes, certainly; that is true Darwinism," was his
reply. "It is horrible what 'they' have made of Darwin. Write
these articles, and when they are printed, I will write to you a
letter which you may publish. "Unfortunately, it took me nearly
seven years to write these articles, and when the last was
published, Bates was no longer living.

After having discussed the importance of mutual aid in
various classes of animals, I was evidently bound to discuss the
importance of the same factor in the evolution of Man. This was
the more necessary as there are a number of evolutionists who may
not refuse to admit the importance of mutual aid among animals,
but who, like Herbert Spencer, will refuse to admit it for Man.
For primitive Man--they maintain--war of each against all was
the law of life. In how far this assertion, which has been too
willingly repeated, without sufficient criticism, since the times
of Hobbes, is supported by what we know about the early phases of
human development, is discussed in the chapters given to the
Savages and the Barbarians.

The number and importance of mutual-aid institutions which
were developed by the creative genius of the savage and
half-savage masses, during the earliest clan-period of mankind
and still more during the next village-community period, and the
immense influence which these early institutions have exercised
upon the subsequent development of mankind, down to the present
times, induced me to extend my researches to the later,
historical periods as well; especially, to study that most
interesting period--the free medieval city republics, of which
the universality and influence upon our modern civilization have
not yet been duly appreciated. And finally, I have tried to
indicate in brief the immense importance which the mutual-support
instincts, inherited by mankind from its extremely long
evolution, play even now in our modern society, which is supposed
to rest upon the principle: "every one for himself, and the State
for all," but which it never has succeeded, nor will succeed in
realizing.

It may be objected to this book that both animals and men are
represented in it under too favourable an aspect; that their
sociable qualities are insisted upon, while their anti-social and
self-asserting instincts are hardly touched upon. This was,
however, unavoidable. We have heard so much lately of the "harsh,
pitiless struggle for life," which was said to be carried on by
every animal against all other animals, every "savage" against
all other "savages," and every civilized man against all his
co-citizens--and these assertions have so much become an
article of faith--that it was necessary, first of all, to
oppose to them a wide series of facts showing animal and human
life under a quite different aspect. It was necessary to indicate
the overwhelming importance which sociable habits play in Nature
and in the progressive evolution of both the animal species and
human beings: to prove that they secure to animals a better
protection from their enemies, very often facilities for getting
food and (winter provisions, migrations, etc.), longevity,
therefore a greater facility for the development of intellectual
faculties; and that they have given to men, in addition to the
same advantages, the possibility of working out those
institutions which have enabled mankind to survive in its hard
struggle against Nature, and to progress, notwithstanding all the
vicissitudes of its history. It is a book on the law of Mutual
Aid, viewed at as one of the chief factors of evolution--not on
all factors of evolution and their respective values; and this
first book had to be writte