s taking leave of her father--Harry Ormond standing
by. The moment she quitted her father's embrace, Father Jos poured with
both his hands on her head the benedictions of all the saints. Released
from Father Jos, Captain Connal hurried her on: Harry held out his hand to
her as she passed. "Good bye, Dora--probably I shall never see you again."

"Oh, Harry!" said she, one touch of natural feeling stopping her short--
"Oh, Harry!--Why?" Bursting into tears, she drew her hand from Connal, and
gave it to Harry: Harry received the hand openly and cordially, shook it
heartily, but took no advantage and no notice of the feelings by which he
saw her at that moment agitated.

"_Forgive_!" she began.

"Good bye, _dear_ Dora. God bless you--may you be as happy--half as happy,
as I wish you to be!"

"To be sure she will--happy as the day is long," said Mademoiselle, leaning
out of the carriage: "why will you make her cry, Mr. Ormond, spoiling her
eyes at parting? Come in to me--Dora, M. de Connal is waiting to hand you,
mon enfant."

"Is her dressing-box in, and all right?" asked Captain Connal, as he handed
Dora into the carriage, who was still weeping.

"Bad compliment to M. de Connal, mon amie. Vrai scandale!" said
Mademoiselle, pulling up the glass, while Dora sunk back in the carriage,
sobbing without restraint.

"Good morning," said Connal, who had now mounted his Mr. Ormond, "Adieu,
Mr. Ormond--command me in any way you please. Drive on!"



CHAPTER XVI.

The evening after the departure of the happy trio, who were gone to Dublin
to buy wedding-dresses, the party remaining at Castle Corny consisted only
of King Corny, Ormond, and Father Jos. When the candles were lighted, his
majesty gave a long and loud yawn, Harry set the backgammon table for him,
and Father Jos, as usual, settled himself in the chimney corner; "And now
Mademoiselle's gone," said he, "I shall take leave to indulge myself in my
pipe."

"You were on the continent this morning, Father Jos," said Cornelius. "Did
ye learn any news for us? Size ace! that secures two points."

"News! I did," said Father Jos.

"Why not tell it us, then?"

"I was not asked. You both seemed so wrapped up, I waited my time and
opportunity. There's a new parson come to Castle Hermitage."

"What new person?" said King Corny. "Doublets, aces, Harry."

"A new parson I'm talking of," said Father Jos, "that has just got the
living there; and they say Sir Ulick's mad about it, in Dublin, where he is
still."

"Mad!--Three men up--and you can't enter, Harry. Well, what is he mad
about?"

"Because of the presentation to the living," replied the priest, "which
government wouldn't make him a compliment of, as he expected."

"He is always expecting compliments from government," said Corny, "and
always getting disappointments. Such throws as you have, Harry--Sixes!
again--Well, what luck!--all over with me--It is only a hit at any rate!
But what kind of man," continued he, "is this new clergyman?"

"Oh! them parsons is all one kind," said Father Jos.

"All one kind! No, no more than our own priests," said Corny. "There's
good and bad, and all the difference in life."

"I don't know any thing at all about it," said Father Jos, sullenly; "but
this I know, that no doubt he'll soon be over here, or his proctor, looking
for the tithes."

"I hope we will have no quarrels," said Corny.

"They ought to be abolished," said Father Jos, "the tithes, that is, I
mean."

"And the quarrels, too, I hope," said Ormond.

"Oh! It's not our fault if there's quarrels," said Father Jos.

"Faults on both sides generally in all quarrels," said Corny.

"In lay quarrels, like enough," said Father Jos. "In church quarrels, it
don't become a good Catholic to say that."

"What?" said Corny.

"_That_," said the priest.

"Which?" said Corny.

"That which you said, that there's faults on both sides; sure there's but
one side, and that's our own side, can be in the right there can't be two
_right sides_, can there? and consequently I there won't be two wrong
sides, will there?--Ergo, there cannot, by a parity of rasoning, be two
sides in the wrong."

"Well, Harry, I'll take the black men now, and gammon you," said Corny.
"Play away, man--what are you thinking of? is it of what Father Jos said?
'tis beyond the limits of the human understanding."

Father Jos puffed away at his pipe for some time.

"I was tired and ashamed of all the wrangling for two-pence with the last
man," said King Corny, "and I believe I was sometimes too hard and too hot
myself; but if this man's a gentleman, I think we shall agree. Did you hear
his name, or any thing at all about him, Father?"

"He is one of them refugee families, the Huguenots, banished France by the
adict of Nantz, they say, and his name's Cambray."

"Cambray!" exclaimed Ormond.

"A very good name," said O'Shane; "but what do you know of it, Harry?"

"Only, sir, I happened to meet with a Dr. Cambray the winter I was in
Dublin, whom I thought a very agreeable, respectable, amiable man--and I
wonder whether this is the same person."

"There is something more now, Harry Ormond, I know by your face," said
Corny: "there's some story of or belonging to Dr. Cambray--what is it?"

"No story, only a slight circumstance--which, if you please, I'd rather not
tell you, sir," said Ormond.

"That is something very extraordinary, and looks mysterious," said Father
Jos.

"Nothing mysterious, I assure you," said Ormond,--"a mere trifle, which,
if it concerned only myself, I would tell directly."

"Let him alone, father," said King Corny; "I am sure he has a good reason--
and I'm not curious: only let me whisper this in your ear to show you my
own penetration, Harry--I'd lay my life" (said he, stretching over and
whispering), "I'd lay my life Miss Annaly has something to do with it."

"Miss Annaly!--nothing in the world--only--yes, I recollect she was
present."

"There now--would not any body think I'm a conjuror? a physiognomist is
cousin to (and not twice removed from) a conjuror."

"But I assure you, though you happened to guess right partly as to her
being present, you are totally mistaken, sir, as to the rest."

"My dear Harry, _totally_ means _wholly_: if I'm right in a part, I can't
be mistaken in the whole. I am glad to make you smile, any way--and I wish
I was right altogether, and that you was as rich as Croesus into the
bargain; but stay a bit, if you come home a hero from the wars--that may
do--ladies are mighty fond of heroes."

It was in vain that Ormond assured his good old imaginative friend that he
was upon a wrong scent. Cornelius stopped to humour him; but was convinced
that he was right: then turned to the still smoking Father Jos, and went on
asking questions about Dr. Cambray.

"I know nothing at all about him," said Father Jos, "but this, that Father
M'Cormuck has dined with him, if I'm not misinformed, oftener than I think
becoming in these times--making too free! And in the chapel last Sunday, I
hear he made a very extraordinary address to his flock--there was one took
down the words, and handed them to me: after remarking on the great
distress of the season--first and foremost about the keeping of fast days
the year--he allowed the poor of his flock, which is almost all, to eat
meat whenever offered to them, because, said he, many would starve--now
mark the obnoxious word--'if it was not for their benevolent Protestant
neighbours, who make soup and broth for them.'"

"What is there obnoxious in that?" said Cornelius.

"Wait till you hear the end--'and feed and clothe the distressed.'"

"That is not obnoxious either, I hope," said Ormond, laughing.

"Young gentleman, you belong to the establishment, and are no judge in this
case, permit me to remark," said Father Jos; "and I could wish Mr. O'Shane
would hear to the end, before he joins in a Protestant laugh."

"I've heard of a 'Protestant wind' before," said Harry, "but not of a
Protestant laugh."

"Well, I'm serious, Father Jos," said Corny; "let me hear to the end what
makes your face so long."

"'And, I am sorry to say, show more charity to them than their own people,
the rich Catholics, sometimes do.' If that is not downright slander, I
don't know what is," said Father Jos.

"Are you sure it is not truth, Father?" said Corny.

"And if it was, even, so much the worse, to be telling it in the chapel,
and to his flock--very improper in a priest, very extraordinary conduct!"

Father Jos worked himself up to a high pitch of indignation, and railed and
smoked for some time, while O'Shane and Ormond joined in defending
M'Cormuck, and his address to his flock--and even his dining with the new
clergyman of the parish. Father Jos gave up and had his punch. The result
of the--whole was, that Ormond proposed to pay his respects the next
morning to Dr. Cambray.

"Very proper," said O'Shane: "do so--fit you should--you are of his people,
and you are acquainted with the gentleman--and I'd have you go and show
yourself safe to him, that we've made no tampering with you."

Father Jos could not say so much, therefore he said nothing.

O'Shane continued, "A very exact church-goer at the little church there
you've always been, at the other side of the lake--never hindered--make
what compliment you will proper for me--say I'm too old and clumsy for
morning visitings, and never go out of my islands. But still I can love my
neighbour in or out of them, and hope, in the name of peace, to be on good
terms. Sha'n't be my fault if them tithes come across. Then I wish that
bone of contention was from between the two churches. Meantime, I'm not
snarling, if others is not craving: and I'd wish for the look of it, for
your sake, Harry, that it should be all smooth; so say any thing you will
for me to this Dr. Cambray,--though we are of a different faith, I should
do any thing in rason."

"Rason! what's that about rason?" said Father Jos: "I hope faith comes
before rason."

"And after it, too, I hope, Father," said Corny.

Father Jos finished his punch, and went to sleep upon it.

Ormond, next morning, paid his visit--Dr. Cambray was not at home; but
Harry was charmed with the neatness of his house, and with the amiable and
happy appearance of his family. He had never before seen Mrs. Cambray or
her daughters, though he had met the doctor in Dublin. The circumstance
which Harry had declined mentioning, when Corny questioned him about his
acquaintance with Dr. Cambray, was very slight, though Father Jos had
imagined it to be of mysterious importance. It had happened, that among the
dissipated set of young men with whom Marcus O'Shane and Harry had passed
that winter in Dublin, a party had one Sunday gone to hear the singing at
the Asylum, and had behaved in a very unbecoming manner during the service.
Dr. Cambray preached--he spoke to the young gentlemen afterwards with mild
but becoming dignity. Harry Ormond instantly, sensible of his error, made
proper apologies, and erred no farther. But Marcus O'Shane in particular,
who was not accustomed to endure anything, much less any person, that
crossed his humour, spoke of Dr. Cambray afterwards with vindictive
bitterness, and with all his talents of mimicry endeavoured to make him
ridiculous. Harry defended him with a warmth of ingenuous eloquence which
did him honour; and with truth, courage, and candour, that did him still
more, corrected some of Marcus's mis-statements, declaring that they had
all been much to blame. Lady Annaly and her daughter were present, and this
was one of the circumstances to which her ladyship had alluded, when she
said that some things had occurred that had prepossessed her with a
favourable opinion of Ormond's character. Dr. Cambray knew nothing of the
attack or the defence till some time afterwards; and it was now so long
ago, and Harry was so much altered since that time, that it was scarcely to
be expected the doctor should recollect even his person. However, when Dr.
Cambray came to the Black Islands to return his visit, he did immediately
recognize Ormond, and seemed so much pleased with meeting him again, and so
much interested about him, that Corny's warm heart was immediately won.
Independently of this, the doctor's persuasive benevolent politeness could
not have failed to operate, as it usually did, even on a first
acquaintance, in pleasing and conciliating even those who were of opposite
opinions.

"There, now," said Corny, when the doctor was gone, "there, now, is a
sincere minister of the Gospel for you, and a polite gentleman into the
bargain. Now that's politeness that does not trouble me--that's not for
show--that's for _us_, not _himself_, mark!--and conversation! Why that man
has conversation for the prince and the peasant--the courtier and the
anchorite. Did not he find plenty for me, and got more out of me than I
thought was in me--and the same if I'd been a monk of La Trappe, he would
have made me talk like a pie. Now there's a man of the high world that the
low world can like, very different from--"

Poor Corny paused, checked himself, and then resumed--"Principles,
religion, and all no hinderance!--liberal and sincere too! Well, I only
wish--Father Jos, no offence--I only wish, for Dr. Cambray's sake, and the
Catholic church's sake, I was, for one day, Archbishop of Canterbury, or
Primate of all Ireland, or whatever else makes the bishops in your church,
and I'd skip over dean and archdeacon, and all, and make that man--clean a
bishop before night."

Harry smiled, and wished he had the power as well as the good-will.

Father Jos said, "A man ought to be ashamed not to think of his _own_
first."

"Now, Harry, don't think I'd make a bishop lightly," continued King Corny;
"I would not--I've been a king too long for that; and though only a king of
my own fashion, I know what's fit for governing a country, observe me!--
Cousin Ulick would make a job of a bishop, but I would not--nor I wouldn't
to please my fancy. Now don't think I'd make that man a bishop just because
he noticed and praised my gimcracks and inventions, and _substitutes_."

Father Jos smiled, and demurely abased his eye.

"Oh! then you don't know me as well as you think you do, father," said
O'Shane. "Nor what's more, Harry, not his noting down the two regiments to
make inquiry for friends for you, Harry, shouldn't have bribed me to
partiality--though I could have kissed his shoe-ties for it."

"Mercy on you!" said Father Jos: "this doctor has bewitched you."

"But did you mind, then," persisted Corny, "the way he spoke of that cousin
of mine, Sir Ulick, who he saw I did not like, and who has been, as you
tell us, bitter against him, and even against his getting the living. Well,
the way this Doctor Cambray spoke then pleased me--good morals without
preaching--there's _do good to your enemies_--the true Christian doctrine--
and the hardest point. Oh! let Father Jos say what he will, there's the man
will be in heaven before many--heretic or no heretic, Harry!"

Father Jos shrugged up his shoulders, and then fixing the: glass in his
spectacles, replied, "We shall see better when we come to the tithes."

"That's true," said Corny.

He walked off to his workshop, and took down his fowling-piece to put the
finishing stroke to his work for the next day, which was to be the first
day of partridge-shooting: he looked forward with delight--anticipating the
gratification he should have in going out shooting with Harry, and trying
his new fowling-piece. "But I won't go out to-morrow till the post has come
in; for my mind couldn't enjoy the sport till I was satisfied whether the
answer could come about your commission, Harry: my mind misgives me--that
is, my calculation tells me, that it will come to-morrow."

Good Corny's calculations were just: the next morning the little post-boy
brought answers to various letters which he had written about Ormond--one
to Ormond from Sir Ulick O'Shane, repeating his approbation of his ward's
going into the army, approving of all the steps Cornelius had taken--
especially of his intention of paying for the commission.

"All's well," Cornelius said. The next letter was from Cornelius's banker,
saying that the five hundred pound was lodged, ready. "All well." The
army-agent wrote, "that he had commissions in two different regiments,
waiting Mr. O'Shane's choice and orders per return of post, to purchase _in
conformity_."--"That's all well." General Albemarle's answer to Mr.
O'Shane's letter was most satisfactory: in terms that were not merely
_officially_ polite, but kind, "he assured Mr. O'Shane that he should, as
far as it was in his power, pay attention to the young gentleman, whom Mr.
O'Shane had so strongly recommended to his care, and by whose appearance
and manner the general said he had been prepossessed, when he saw him some
months ago at Corny Castle. There was a commission vacant in his son's
regiment, which he recommended to Mr. Ormond."

"The very thing I could have wished for you, my dear boy--you shall go off
the day after to-morrow--not a moment's delay--I'll answer the letters this
minute."

But Harry reminded him that the post did not go out till the next day, and
urged him not to lose this fine day--this first day of the season for
partridge shooting.

"Time enough for my business after we come home--the post does not go out
till morning."

"That's true: come off, then--let's enjoy the fine day sent us; and my gun,
too--I forgot; for I do believe, Harry, I love you better even than my
gun," said the warm-hearted Corny. "Call _Ormond_. Moriarty; let us have
him with us--he'll enjoy it beyond all: one of the last day's shooting with
his own Prince Harry!--but, poor fellow, we'll not tell him that."

Moriarty and the dogs were summoned, and the fineness of the day, and the
promise of good sport, put Moriarty in remarkably good spirits. By degrees
King Corny's own spirits rose, and he forgot that it was the last day with
Prince Harry, and he enjoyed the sport. After various trials of his new
fowling-piece, both the king and the prince agreed that it succeeded to
admiration. But even in the midst of his pride in his success, and his joy
in the sport, his superior fondness for Harry prevailed, and showed itself
in little, almost delicate instances of kindness, which could hardly have
been expected from his unpolished mind. As they crossed a bog, he stooped
every now and then, and plucked different kinds of bog-plants and heaths.

"Here, Harry," said he, "mind these for Dr. Cambray. Remember yesterday his
mentioning that a daughter of his was making a botanical collection, and
there's Sheelah can tell you all the Irish names and uses. Some I can note
for you myself; and here, this minute--by great luck! the very thing he
wanted!--the andromeda, I'll swear to it: throw away all and keep this--
carry it to her to-morrow--for I will have you make a friend of that Dr.
Cambray; and no way so sure or fair to the father's heart as by proper
attention to the daughter--I know that by myself. Hush, now, till I have
that partridge!--Whirr!--Shot him clean, my dear gun!--Was not that good,
Harry?"

Thus they continued their sport till late; and returning, loaded with game,
had nearly reached the palace, when Corny, who had marked a covey, quitted
Harry, and sent his dog to spring it, at a distance much greater than the
usual reach of a common fowling-piece. Harry heard a shot, and a moment
afterwards a violent shout of despair;--he knew the voice to be that of
Moriarty, and running to the spot from whence it came, he found his friend,
his benefactor, weltering in his blood. The fowling-piece, overloaded, had
burst, and a large splinter of the barrel had fractured the skull, and had
sunk into the brain. As Moriarty was trying to raise his head, O'Shane
uttered some words, of which all that was intelligible was the name of
Harry Ormond. His eye was fixed on Harry, but the meaning of the eye was
gone. He squeezed Harry's hand, and an instant afterwards O'Shane's hand
was powerless. The dearest, the only real friend Harry Ormond had upon
earth was gone for ever!



CHAPTER XVII.

A boy passing by saw what had happened, and ran to the house, calling as
he went to some workmen, who hastened to the place, where they heard the
howling of the dogs. Ormond neither heard nor saw--till Moriarty said, "He
must be carried home;" and some one approaching to lift the body, Ormond
started up, pushed the man back, without uttering a syllable--made a sign
to Moriarty, and between them they carried the body home. Sheelah and the
women came out to meet them, wringing their hands, and uttering loud
lamentations. Ormond, bearing his burden as if insensible of what he bore,
walked onward, looking at no one, answering none, but forcing his way
straight into the house, and on--till they came to O'Shane's bedchamber,
which was upon the ground-floor--there laid him on his bed. The women had
followed, and all those who had gathered on the way rushed in to see and to
bewail. Ormond looked up, and saw the people about the bed, and made a sign
to Moriarty to keep them away, which he did, as well as he could. But they
would not be kept back--Sheelah, especially, pressed forward, crying
loudly, till Moriarty, with whom she was struggling, pointed to Harry.
Struck with his fixed look, she submitted at once. _"Best leave him!"_ said
she. She put every body out of the room before her, and turning to Ormond,
said, they would leave him "a little space of time till the priest should
come, who was at a clergy dinner, but was sent for."

When Ormond was left alone he locked the door, and kneeling beside the
dead, offered up prayers for the friend he had lost, and there remained
some time in stillness and silence, till Sheelah knocked at the door, to
let him know that the priest was come. Then retiring, he went to the other
end of the house, to be out of the way. The room to which he went was that
in which they had been reading the letters just before they went out that
morning. There was the pen which Harry had taken from his hand, and the
answer just begun.

"Dear General, I hope my young friend, Harry Ormond--"

That hand could write no more!--that warm heart was cold! The certainty was
so astonishing, so stupifying, that Ormond, having never yet shed a tear,
stood with his eyes fixed on the paper, he knew not how long, till he felt
some one touch his hand. It was the child, little Tommy, of whom O'Shane
was so fond, and who was so fond of him. The child, with his whistle in his
hand, stood looking up at Harry, without speaking. Ormond gazed on him for
a few instants, then snatched him in his arms, and burst into an agony of
tears. Sheelah, who had let the child in, now came and carried him away.
"God be thanked for them tears," said she, "they will bring relief;" and so
they did. The necessity for manly exertion--the sense of duty--pressed upon
Ormond's recovered reason. He began directly, and wrote all the letters
that were necessary to his guardian and to Miss O'Faley, to communicate the
dreadful intelligence to Dora. The letters were not finished till late in
the evening. Sheelah came for them, and leaving the door and the outer door
to the hall open, as she came in, Ormond saw the candles lighted, and smelt
the smell of tobacco and whiskey, and heard the sound of many voices.

"The wake, dear, which is beginning," said she, hastening back to shut the
doors, as she saw him shudder. "Bear with it, Master Harry," said she:
"hard for you!--but bear with us, dear; 'tis the custom of the country; and
what else can we do but what the forefathers did?--how else for us to show
respect, only as it would be expected, and has always been?--and great
comfort to think we done our best for _him that is gone_, and comfort to
know his wake will be talked of long hereafter, over the fires at night, of
all the people that is there without--and that's all we have for it now: so
bear with it, dear."

This night, and for two succeeding nights, the doors of Corny Castle
remained open for all who chose to come.

Crowds, as many, and more, than the castle could hold, flocked to King
Corny's wake, for he was greatly beloved.

There was, as Sheelah said, "plenty of cake, and wine, and tea, and
tobacco, and snuff--every thing handsome as possible, and honourable to the
deceased, who was always open-handed and open-hearted, and with open house
too."

His praises, from time to time, were heard, and then the common business of
the country was talked of--and jesting and laughter went on--and all night
there were tea-drinkings for the women, and punch for the men. Sheelah, who
inwardly grieved most, went about incessantly among the crowd, serving all,
seeing that none, especially them who came from a distance, should be
neglected--and that none should have to complain afterwards, "or to say
that any thing at all was wanting or niggardly." Mrs. Betty, Sheelah's
daughter, sat presiding at the tea-table, giving the keys to her mother
when wanted, but never forgetting to ask for them again. Little Tommy took
his cake and hid himself under the table, close by his mother, Mrs. Betty;
and could not be tempted out but by Sheelah, whom he followed, watching for
her to go in to Mr. Harry: when the door opened, he held by her gown, and
squeezed in under her arm--and when she brought Mr. Harry his meals, she
would set the child up at the table with him _for company_--and to tempt
him to take something.

Ormond had once promised his deceased friend, that if he was in the country
when he died, he would put him into his coffin. He kept his promise. The
child hearing a noise, and knowing that Mr. Harry had gone into the room,
could not be kept out; the crowd had left that room, and the child looked
at the bed with the curtains looped up with black--and at the table at the
foot of the bed, with the white cloth spread over it, and the seven
candlesticks placed upon it. But the coffin fixed his attention, and he
threw himself upon it, clinging to it, and crying bitterly upon King Corny,
his dear King Corny, to come back to him.

It was all Sheelah could do to drag him away: Ormond, who had always liked
this boy, felt now more fond of him than ever, and resolved that he should
never want a friend.

"You are in the mind to attend the funeral, sir, I think you told me?" said
Sheelah.

"Certainly," replied Ormond.

"Excuse me, then," said Sheelah, "if I mention--for you can't know what to
do without. There will be high mass, may be you know, in the chapel. And as
it's a great funeral, thirteen priests will be there, attending. And when
the mass will be finished, it will be expected of you, as first of kin
considered, to walk up first with your offering--whatsoever you think fit,
for the priests--and to lay it down on the altar; and then each and all
will follow, laying down their offerings, according as they can. I hope I'm
not too bold or troublesome, sir."

Ormond thanked her for her kindness--and felt it was real kindness. He,
consequently, did all that was expected from him _handsomely_. After the
masses were over, the priests, who could not eat any thing before they said
mass, had breakfast and dinner joined. Sheelah took care "the clergy was
well served." Then the priests--though it was not essential that all should
go, did all, to Sheelah's satisfaction, accompany the funeral the _whole
way_, three long miles, to the burying-place of the O'Shanes; a remote old
abbey-ground, marked only by some scattered trees, and a few sloping
grave-stones. King Corny's funeral was followed by an immense concourse of
people, on' horseback and on foot; men, women, and children: when they
passed by the doors of cabins, a set of the women raised the funeral cry--
not a savage howl, as is the custom in some parts of Ireland, but chanting
a melancholy kind of lament, not without harmony, simple and pathetic.
Ormond was convinced, that in spite of all the festivity at the wake, which
had so disgusted him, the poor people mourned sincerely for the friend they
had lost.

We forgot to mention that Dr. Cambray went to the Black Islands the day
after O'Shane's death, and did all he could to prevail upon Ormond to go to
his house while the wake was going on, and till the funeral should be over.
But Ormond thought it right to stay where he was, as none of the family
were there, and there was no way in which he could so strongly mark, as
Sheelah said, his respect for the dead. Now that it was all over, he had at
least the consolation of thinking that he had not shrunk from any thing
that was, or that he conceived to be, his duty. Dr. Cambray was pleased
with his conduct, and at every moment he could spare went to see him, doing
all he could to console him, by strengthening in Ormond's mind the feelings
of religious submission to the will of Heaven, and of pious hope and
confidence. Ormond had no time left him for the indulgence of sorrow--
business pressed upon him.

Cornelius O'Shane's will, which Sir Ulick blamed Harry for not mentioning
in the first letter, was found to be at his banker's in Dublin. All his
property was left to his daughter, except the farm, which he had given to
Ormond; this was specially excepted, with legal care: also a legacy of five
hundred pounds was left to Harry; a trifling bequest to Sir Ulick, being
his cousin; and legacies to servants. Miss O'Faley was appointed sole
executrix--this gave great umbrage to Sir Ulick O'Shane, and appeared
extraordinary to many people; but the will was in due form, and nothing
could be done against it, however much might be said.

Miss O'Faley, without taking notice of any thing Ormond said of the money,
which had been lodged in the bank to pay for his commission, wrote as
executrix to beg of him to do various business for her--all which he did;
and fresh letters came with new requests, inventories to be taken, things
to be sent to Dublin, money to be received and paid, stewards' and agents'
accounts to be settled, business of all kinds, in short, came pouring in--
upon him, a young man unused to it, and with a mind peculiarly averse from
it at this moment. But when he found that he could be of service to any one
belonging to his benefactor, he felt bound in gratitude to exert himself to
the utmost. These circumstances, however disagreeable, had an excellent
effect upon his character, giving him habits of business which were ever
afterwards of use to him. It was remarkable that the only point in his
letters which had concerned his own affairs still continued unanswered.
Another circumstance hurt his feelings--instead of Miss O'Faley's writing
to make her own requests, Mr. Connal was soon deputed by Mademoiselle to
write for her. He spoke of the shock the ladies had felt, and the
distressing circumstances in which they were; all in commonplace phrases,
which Ormond despised, and from which he could judge nothing of Dora's real
feelings.

"The marriage must, of course," Mr. Connal said, "be put off for some time;
and as it would be painful to the ladies to return to Corny Castle, he had
advised their staying in Dublin; and they and he feeling assured that, from
Mr. Ormond's regard for the family, they might take the liberty of
troubling him, they requested so and so, and the _executrix_ begged he
would see this settled and that settled at last, with gradually forgotten
apologies, falling very much into the style of a person writing to an
humble friend or dependent, bound to consider requests as commands."

Our young hero's pride was piqued on the one side, as much as his gratitude
was alive on the other.

Sir Ulick O'Shane wrote to Harry that he was at this time _peculiarly_
engaged with affairs of his own. He said, that as to the material point of
the money lodged for the commission, he would see the executrix, and do
what he could to have that settled; but as to all lesser points, Sir Ulick
said, he really had not leisure to answer letters at present. He enclosed a
note to Dr. Cambray, whom he recommended it to his ward to consult, and
whose advice and assistance he now requested for him in pressing terms.

In consequence of this direct application from the young gentleman's
guardian, Dr. Cambray felt himself authorized and called upon to interfere,
where, otherwise, delicacy might have prevented him. It was fortunate for
Ormond that he had Dr. Cambray's counsel to guide him, or else he would, in
the first moments of feeling, have yielded too much to the suggestions of
both gratitude and pride.

In the first impulse of generous pride, Ormond wanted to give up the farm
which his benefactor had left him, because he wished that no possible
suspicion of interested motives having influenced his attachment to
Cornelius O'Shane should exist, especially with Mr. Connal, who, as the
husband of Dora, would soon be the lord of all in the Black Islands.

On the other hand, when Mr. Connal wrote to him, that the executrix, having
no written order from the deceased to that effect, could not pay the five
hundred pounds, lodged in the bank, for his commission, Ormond was on the
point of flying out with intemperate indignation. "Was not his own word
sufficient? Was not the intention of his benefactor apparent from the
letters? Would not this justify any executor, any person of common sense or
honour?"

Dr. Cambray, his experienced and placid counsellor, brought all these
sentiments to due measure by mildly showing what was law and justice, and
what was fit and proper in each case; putting jealous honour, and romantic
generosity, as they must be put, out of the question in business.

He prevented Ormond from embroiling himself with Connal about the legacy,
and from giving up his farm. He persuaded him to decline having any thing
to do with the affairs of the Black Islands.

A proper agent was appointed, who saw Ormond's accounts settled and signed,
so that no blame or suspicion could rest upon him.

"There seems no probability, Mr. Ormond," said Dr. Cambray, "of your
commission being immediately purchased. Your guardian, Sir Ulick O'Shane,
will be detained some time longer, I understand, in Dublin. You are in a
desolate situation here--you have now done all that you ought to do--leave
these Black Islands, and come to Vicar's Dale: you will find there a
cheerful family, and means of spending your time more agreeably, perhaps
more profitably, than you can have here. I am sensible that no new friends
_can_ supply to you the place of him you have lost; but you will find
pleasure in the perception, that you have, by your own merit, attached to
you one friend in me, who will do all in his power to soothe and serve
you.--Will you _trust_ yourself to me?" added he, smiling, "You have
already found that I do not flatter. Will you come to us?--The sooner the
better--to-morrow, if you can."

It scarcely need be said, that this invitation was most cordially accepted.
Next day Ormond was to leave the Black Islands. Sheelah was in despair when
she found he was going: the child hung upon him so that he could hardly get
out of the house, till Moriarty promised to return for the boy, and carry
him over in the boat often, to see Mr. Ormond. Moriarty would not stay in
the islands himself, he said, after Harry went: he let the cabin and little
tenement which O'Shane had given him, and the rent was to be paid him by
the agent. Ormond went, for the last time, that morning, to Ormond's Vale,
to settle his own affairs there: he and Moriarty took an unusual path
across this part of the island to the waterside, that they might avoid that
which they had followed the last time they were out, on the day of Corny's
death. They went, therefore, across a lone tract of heath-bog, where, for a
considerable time, they saw no living being.

On this bog, of which Cornelius O'Shane had given Moriarty a share, the
grateful poor fellow had, the year before, amused himself with cutting in
large letters of about a yard long the words

"LONG LIVE KING CORNY."

He had sowed the letters with broom-seed in the spring, and had since
forgotten ever to look at them; but they were now green, and struck the
eye.

"Think then of this being all the trace that's left of him on the face of
the earth!" said Moriarty. "I'm glad that I did even that same."

After crossing this lone bog, when they came to the waterside, they found a
great crowd of people, seemingly all the inhabitants of the islands,
assembled there, waiting to take leave of Master Harry; and each of them
was cheered by a kind word and a look, before they would let him step into
the boat.

"Ay, go _to the continent_," said Sheelah, "ay, go to fifty continents, and
in all Ireland you'll not find hearts warmer to you than those of the Black
Islands, that knows you best from a child, Master Harry dear."



CHAPTER XVIII.

Ormond was received with much kindness in Dr. Cambray's family, in which
he felt himself at ease, and soon forgot that he was a stranger: his mind,
however, was anxious about his situation, as he longed to get into active
life. Every morning, when the post came in, he hoped there would be a
letter for him with his commission; and he was every morning regularly
surprised and disappointed, on finding that there was none. In the course
of each ensuing day, however, he forgot his disappointment, and said he
believed he was happier where he was than he could be any where else. The
regular morning question of "Any letters for me?" was at last answered by
"Yes; one franked by Sir Ulick O'Shane." "Ah! no commission--I feel no
enclosure--single letter--no! double." Double or single, it was as
follows:--

"DEAR HARRY,

At last I have seen the executrix and son-in-law, whom that great genius
deceased, my well-beloved cousin in folly, King Corny, chose for himself.
As to that thing, half mud, half tinsel, half Irish, half French, Miss, or
Mademoiselle, O'Faley, that jointed doll, is--all but the eyes, which move
of themselves in a very extraordinary way--a mere puppet, pulled by wires
in the hands of another. The master showman, fully as extraordinary in his
own way as his puppet, kept, while I was by, as much as possible behind the
scenes. The hand and ruffle of the French petit-maitre, and the prompter's
voice, however, were visible and audible enough for me. In plain English, I
suppose it is no news to you to hear that Mdlle. O'Faley is a fool, and
Monsieur de Connal, Captain O'Connal, Black Connal, or by whatever other
_alias_ he is to be called, is _properly_ a puppy. I am sorry, my dear boy,
to tell you that the fool has let the rogue get hold of the five hundred
pounds lodged in the bank--so no hopes of your commission for three months,
or at the least two months to come. My dear boy, your much-lamented friend
and benefactor (is not that the style?), King Corny, who began, I think, by
being, years ago, to your admiration, his own tailor, has ended, I fear to
your loss, by being his own lawyer: he has drawn his will so that any
attorney could drive a coach and six through it--so ends 'every man his own
lawyer.' Forgive me this laugh, Harry. By-the-bye, you, my dear ward, will
be of age in December, I think--then all my legal power of interference
ceases.

"Meantime, as I know you will be out of spirits when you read this, I have
some comfort for you and myself, which I kept for a bonne-bouche--you will
never more see Lady O'Shane, nor I either. Articles of separation--and I
didn't trust myself to be my own lawyer--have been signed between us: so I
shall see her ladyship sail for England this night--won't let any one have
the pleasure of putting her on board but myself--I will see her safe off,
and feel well assured nothing can tempt her to return--even to haunt me--or
scold you. This was the business which detained me in Dublin--well worth
while to give up a summer to secure, for the rest of one's days, liberty to
lead a bachelor's merry life, which I mean to do at Castle Hermitage or
elsewhere, now and from henceforth--Miss Black in no ways notwithstanding.
Miss Black, it is but justice to tell you, is now convinced of my conjugal
virtues, and admires my patience as much as she used to admire Lady
O'Shane's. She has been very useful to me in arranging my affairs in this
separation--_in consequence_, I have procured a commission of the peace for
a certain Mr. M'Crule, a man whom you may remember to have seen or heard at
the bottom or corner of the table at Castle Hermitage, one of the
_Cromwellians_, a fellow with the true draw-down of the mouth, and who
speaks, or snorts, through his nose. I have caused him, not without some
difficulty, to ask Miss Black to be his helpmate (Lord _help_ him and
forgive me!); and Miss Black, preferring rather to stay in Ireland and
become Mrs. M'Crule than to return to England and continue companion to
Lady O'Shane, hath consented (who can blame her?) to marry on the spur of
the occasion--to-morrow--I giving her away--you may imagine with what
satisfaction. What with marriages and separations, the business of the
nation, my bank, my canal, and my coal-mines, you may guess my hands have
been full of business. Now, all for pleasure! next week I hope to be down
enjoying my liberty at Castle Hermitage, where I shall be heartily glad to
have my dear Harry again. Marcus in England still--the poor Annalys in
great distress about the son, with whom, I fear, it is all over. No time
for more. Measure my affection by the length of this, the longest epistle
extant in my hand-writing.

"My dear boy, yours ever,

"Ulick O'Shane."

The mixed and crossing emotions which this letter was calculated to excite
having crossed, and mixed, and subsided a little, the predominating feeling
was expressed by our young hero with a sigh, and this reflection: "Two
months at the least! I must wait before I can have my commission--two
months more in idleness the fates have decreed."

"That last is a part of the decree that depends on yourself, not on the
fates. Two months you must wait, but why in idleness?" said Dr. Cambray.

The kind and prudent doctor did not press the question--he was content with
its being heard, knowing that it would sink into the mind and produce its
effect in due season. Accordingly, after some time, after Ormond had
exhaled impatience, and exhausted invective, and submitted to necessity, he
returned to reason with the doctor. One evening, when the doctor and his
family had returned from walking, and as the tea-urn was just coming in
bubbling and steaming, Ormond set to work at a corner of the table, at the
doctor's elbow.

"My dear doctor, suppose I was now to read over to you my list of books."

"Suppose you were, and suppose I was to fall asleep," said the doctor.

"Not the least likely, sir, when you are to do any thing kind for a friend
--may I say friend?"

"You may. Come, read on--I am not proof against flattery, even at my age--
well, read away."

Ormond began; but at that moment there drove past the windows a travelling
chariot and four.

"Sir Ulick O'Shane, as I live!" cried Ormond, starting up. "I saw him--he
nodded to me. Oh! no, impossible--he said he would not come till next week
--Where's his letter?--What's the date?--Could it mean this week?--No, he
says next week quite plainly--What can be the reason?"

A note for Mr. Ormond was brought in, which had been left by one of Sir
Ulick O'Shane's servants as they went by.

"My commission, after all," cried Harry. "I always knew, I always said,
that Sir Ulick was a good friend."

"Has he purchased the commission?" said Dr. Cambray.

"He does not actually say so, but that must be what his note means," said
Ormond.

"Means! but what does it say?--May I see it?"

"It is written in such a hurry, and in pencil, you'll not be able to make
it out."

The doctor, however, read aloud--

"If Mr. Harry Ormond will inquire at Castle Hermitage, he will hear of
something to his advantage.

U. O'SHANE."

"Go off this minute," said Mrs. Cambray, "and inquire at Castle Hermitage
what Mr. Harry Ormond may hear to his advantage, and let us learn it as
soon as possible."

"Thank you, ma'am," said Harry; and ere the words were well uttered, a
hundred steps were lost.

With more than his usual cordiality, Sir Ulick O'Shane received him, came
out into the hall to meet his dear Harry, his own dear boy, to welcome him
again to Castle Hermitage.

"We did not expect you, sir, till next week--this is a most agreeable
surprise. Did you not say--"

"No matter what I said--you see what I have done," interrupted Sir Ulick;
"and now I must introduce you to a niece of mine, whom you have never yet
seen--Lady Norton, a charming, well-bred, pleasant little widow, whose
husband died, luckily for her and me, just when they had run out all their
large fortune. She is delighted to come to me, and is just the thing to do
the honours of Castle Hermitage--used to the style; but observe, though she
is to rule my roast and my boiled, she is not to rule me or my friends--
that is a preliminary, and a special clause for Harry Ormond's being a
privileged _ami de la maison_. Now, my dear fellow, you understand how the
land lies; and depend upon it, you'll like her, and find her every way of
_great advantage to you_."

So, thought Harry, is this all the advantage I am to hear of?

Sir Ulick led on to the drawing-room, and presented him to a fashionable-
looking lady, neither young nor old, nothing in any respect remarkable.

"Lady Norton, Harry Ormond--Harry Ormond, my niece, Lady Norton, who will
make this house as pleasant to you, and to me, and to all my friends, as it
has been unpleasant ever since--in short, ever since you were out of it,
Harry."

Lady Norton, with gracious smile and well-bred courtesy, received Harry in
a manner that promised the performance of all for which Sir Ulick had
engaged. Tea came; and the conversation went on chiefly between Sir Ulick
and Lady Norton on their own affairs, about invitations and engagements
they had made, before they left Dublin, with various persons who were
coming down to Castle Hermitage. Sir Ulick asked, "When are the Brudenells
to come to us, my dear?--Did you settle with the Lascelles?--and Lady
Louisa, she must be here with the vice-regal party--arrange that, my dear."

Lady Norton had settled every thing; she took out an elegant memorandum-
book, and read the arrangements to Sir Ulick. Between whiles, Sir Ulick
turned to Ormond and noted the claims of those persons to distinction, and
as several ladies were named, exclaimed, "Charming woman!--delightful
little creature!--The Darrells; Harry, you'll like the Darrells too!--The
Lardners, all clever, pleasant, and odd, will entertain you amazingly,
Harry!--But Lady Millicent is _the_ woman--nothing at all has been seen in
this country like her!--most fascinating! Harry, take care of your heart."

Then, as to the men--this man was clever--and the other was quite a hero--
and the next the pleasantest fellow--and the best sportsman--and there were
men of political eminence--men who had distinguished themselves on
different occasions by celebrated speeches--and particularly promising
rising young; men, with whom he must make Ormond intimately acquainted. Now
Sir Ulick closed Lady Norton's book, and taking it from her hand, said, "I
am tiring you, my dear--that's enough for to-night--we'll settle all the
rest to-morrow: you must be tired after your journey--I whirled you down
without mercy--you look fatigued and sleepy."

Lady Norton said, "Indeed, she believed she was a little tired, and rather
sleepy."

Her uncle begged she would not sit up longer from compliment; accordingly,
apologizing to Mr. Ormond, and "really much fatigued," she retired. Sir
Ulick walked up and down the room, meditating for some moments, while Harry
renewed his intimacy with an old dog, who, at every pause in the
conversation, jumping up on him, and squealing with delight, had claimed
his notice.

"Well, my boy," exclaimed Sir Ulick, stopping short, "aren't you a most
extraordinary fellow? Pray did you get my note?"

"Certainly, sir, and came instantly in consequence."

"And yet you have never inquired what it is that you might hear to your
advantage."

"I--I thought I had heard it, sir."

"Heard it, sir!" repeated Sir Ulick: "what _can_ you mean?"

"Simply, sir, that I thought the advantage you alluded to was the
introduction you did me just now the favour to give me to Lady Norton; you
said, her being here would be _a great advantage to me_, and that led me to
conclude--"

"Well, well! you were always a simple good fellow--confiding in my
friendship--continue the same--you will, I am confident. But had you no
other thought?"

"I had," said Harry, "when first I read your note, I had, I own, another
thought."

"And what might it be?"

"I thought of my commission, sir."

"What of your commission?"

"That you had procured it for me, sir."

"Since you ask me, I tell you honestly, that if it had been for your
interest, I would have purchased that commission long ago; but there is a
little secret, a political secret, which I could not tell you before--those
who are behind the scenes cannot always speak--I may tell it to you now
confidentially, but you must not repeat it, especially from me--that peace
is likely to continue; so the army is out of the question."

"Well, sir, if that be the case--you know best."

"I do--it is, trust me; and as things have turned out--though I could not
possibly foresee what has happened--every thing is for the best: I have
come express from town to tell you news that will surprise you beyond
measure."

"What can you mean, sir?"

"Simply, sir, that you are possessed, or soon will be possessed of--But
come, sit down quietly, and in good earnest let me explain to you. You know
your father's second wife, the Indian woman, the governor's mahogany-
coloured daughter--she had a prodigious fortune, which my poor friend, your
father, chose, when dying, to settle upon her, and her Indian son; leaving
you nothing but what he could not take from you, the little paternal
estate of three hundred pounds a year. Well, it has pleased Heaven to take
your mahogany-coloured step-mother and your Indian brother out of this
world; both carried off within a few days of each other by a fever of the
country--much regretted, I dare say, in the Bombay Gazette, by all who knew
them.

"But as neither you nor I had that honour, we are not, upon this occasion,
called upon for any hypocrisy, farther than a black coat, which I have
ordered for you at my tailor's. _Have also noted_ and answered, _in
conformity_, the agent's letter of 26th July, received yesterday,
containing the melancholy intelligence: farther, replied to that part of
his last, which requested to know how and where to transmit the property,
which, on the Indian mother and brother's demise, falls, by the will of the
late Captain Ormond, to his European son, Harry Ormond, esq., now under the
guardianship of Sir Ulick O'Shane, Castle Hermitage, Ireland."

As he spoke, Sir Ulick produced the agent's letter, and put it into his
ward's hand, pointing to the "useful passages." Harry, glancing his eye
over them, understood just enough to be convinced that Sir Ulick was in
earnest, and that he was really heir to a very considerable property.

"Well! Harry Ormond, esq.," pursued Sir Ulick, "was I wrong when I told you
that if you would inquire at Castle Hermitage you would hear of something
to your advantage?"

"I _hope_ in Heaven," said Ormond, "and _pray_ to Heaven that it may be to
my advantage!--I hope neither my head nor my heart may be turned by sudden
prosperity."

"Your heart--oh! I'll answer for your heart, my noble fellow," said Sir
Ulick; "but I own you surprise me by the coolness of head you show."

"If you'll excuse me," said Ormond, "I must run this minute to tell Dr.
Cambray and all my friends at Vicar's Dale."

"Certainly--quite right," said Sir Ulick--"I won't detain you a moment,"
said he--but he still held him fast. "I let you go to-night, but you must
come to me to-morrow."

"Oh! sir, certainly."

"And you will bid adieu to Vicar's Dale, and take up your quarters at
Castle Hermitage, with your old guardian."

"Thank you, sir--delightful! But I need not bid adieu to Vicar's Dale--
_they_ are so near, I shall see them every day."

"Of course," said Sir Ulick, biting his lip; "_but_ I was thinking of
something."

"Pray," continued Sir Ulick, "do you like a gig, a curricle, or a phaeton
best, or what carriage will you have? there is Tom Darrel's in London now,
who can bring it over for you. Well, we can settle that to-morrow."

"If you please--thank you, kind Sir Ulick--how _can_ you think so quickly
of every thing?"

"Horses, too--let me see," said Sir Ulick, drawing Harry back to the
fire-place--"Ay, George Beirne is a judge of horses--he can choose for you,
unless you like to choose for yourself. What colour--black or bay?"

"I declare, sir, I don't know yet--my poor head is in such a state--and the
horses happen not to be uppermost."

"I protest, Harry, you perfectly astonish me, by the sedateness of your
mind and manner. You are certainly wonderfully formed and improved since I
saw you last--but, how! in the name of wonder, in the Black Islands, _how_
I cannot conceive," said Sir Ulick.

"As to sedateness, you know, sir, since I saw you last, I may well be
sobered a little, for I have suffered--not a little," said Harry.

"Suffered! how?" said Sir Ulick, leaning his arm on the mantel-piece
opposite to him, and listening with an air of sympathy--"suffered! I was
not aware--"

"You know, sir, I have lost an excellent friend."

"Poor Corny--ay, my poor cousin, as far as he could, I am sure, he wished
to be a friend to you."

"He wished to be, and _was,_" said Ormond.

"It would have been better for him and his daughter too," resumed Sir
Ulick, "if he had chosen you for his son-in-law, instead of the coxcomb to
whom Dora is going to be married: yet I own, as your guardian, I am well
pleased that Dora, though a very pretty girl, is out of your way--you must
look higher--she was no match for you."

"I am perfectly sensible, sir, that we should never have been happy
together."

"You are a very sensible young man, Ormond--you make me admire you,
seriously--I always foresaw what you would be Ah! if Marcus--but we'll not
talk of that now. Terribly dissipated--has spent an immensity of money
already--but still, when he speaks in parliament he will make a figure. But
good bye, good night; I see you are in a hurry to get away from me."

"_From you!_ Oh! no, sir, you cannot think me so ungrateful. I have not
expressed, because I have not words--when I feel much, I never can say any
thing; yet believe me, sir, I do feel your kindness, and all the warm
fatherly interest you have this night shown that you have for me:--but I am
in a hurry to tell my good friends the Cambrays, who I know are impatient
for my return, and I fear I am keeping them up beyond their usual hour."

"Not at all--besides--good Heavens! can't they sit up a quarter of an hour,
if they are so much interested?--Stay, you really hurry my slow wits--one
thing more I had to say--pray, may I ask to _which_ of the Miss Cambrays is
it that you are so impatient to impart your good fortune?"

"To both, sir," said Ormond--"equally."

"Both!--you unconscionable dog, polygamy is not permitted in these
countries--Both! no, try again for a better answer; though that was no bad
one at the first blush."

"I have no other answer to give than the plain truth, sir: I am thinking
neither of polygamy nor even of marriage at present. These young ladies are
both very amiable, very handsome, and very agreeable; but, in short, we are
not thinking of one another--indeed, I believe they are engaged."

"Engaged!--Oh! then you have thought about these young ladies enough to
find that out. Well, this saves your gallantry--good night."

Sir Ulick had this evening taken a vast deal of superfluous pains to sound
a mind, which lay open before him, clear to the very bottom; but because it
was so clear, be could not believe that he saw the bottom. He did not much
like Dr. Cambray--Father Jos was right there. Dr. Cambray was one of those
simple characters which puzzled Sir Ulick--the idea of these Miss Cambrays,
of the possibility of his ward's having formed an attachment that might
interfere with his views, disturbed Sir Ulick's rest this night. His first
operation in the morning was to walk down unexpectedly early to Vicar's
Dale. He found Ormond with Dr. Cambray, very busy, examining a plan which
the doctor had sketched for a new cottage for Moriarty--a mason was
standing by, talking of sand, lime, and stones. "But the young ladies,
where are they?" Sir Ulick asked.

Ormond did not know. Mrs. Cambray, who was quietly reading, said she
supposed they were in their gardens; and not in the least suspecting Sir
Ulick's suspicions, she was glad to see him, and gave credit to his
neighbourly good-will for the earliness of this visit, without waiting even
for the doctor to pay his respects first, as he intended to do at Castle
Hermitage.

"Oh! as to that," Sir Ulick said, "he did not intend to live on terms of
ceremony with Dr. Cambray--he was impatient to take the first opportunity
of thanking the doctor for his attentions to his ward."

Sir Ulick's quick eye saw on the table in Harry's handwriting the _list of
books to be read_. He took it up, looked it over, and with a smile asked,
"Any thoughts of the church, Harry?"

"No, sir; it would be rather late for me to think of the church. I should
never prepare myself properly."

"Besides," said Sir Ulick, "I have no living in my gift; but if," continued
he, in a tone of irony, "if, as I should opine from the list I hold in my
hand--you look to a college living, my boy--if you are bent upon reading
for a fellowship--I don't doubt but with Dr. Cambray's assistance, and with
some _grinder_ and _crammer_, we might get you cleverly through all the
college examinations. And doctor, if he did not, in going through some of
the college courses, die of a logical indigestion, or a classical fever, or
a metaphysical lethargy, he might shine in the dignity of Trin. Coll. Dub.,
and, mad Mathesis inspiring, might teach eternally how the line AB is equal
to the line CD,--or why poor X Y Z are unknown quantities. Ah! my dear boy,
think of the pleasure, the glory of lecturing classes of _ignoramuses_, and
dunces yet unborn!"

Harry, no way disconcerted, laughed good-humouredly with his guardian, and
replied, "At present, sir, my ambition reaches no farther than to escape
myself from the class of dunces and ignoramuses. I am conscious that at
present I am very deficient."

"_In_ what, my dear boy?--To make your complaint English, you must say
deficient in some thing or other--'tis an _Iricism_ to say in general that
you are _very deficient._"

"There is one of my particular deficiencies then you see, sir--I am
deficient in English."

"You are not deficient in temper, I am sure," said Sir Ulick: "come, come,
you may be tolerably well contented with yourself."

"Ignorant as I am!--No," said Ormond, "I will never sit down content in
ignorance. Now that I have the fortune of a gentleman, it would be so much
the more conspicuous, more scandalous--now that I have every way the means,
I will, by the blessing of Heaven, and with the help of kind friends, make
myself something more and something better than I am."

"Gad! you are a fine fellow, Harry Ormond," cried Sir Ulick: "I remember
having once, at your age, such feelings and notions myself."

"Very unlike the first thoughts and feelings many young men would have on
coming into unexpected possession of a fortune," said Dr. Cambray.

"True," said Sir Ulick, "and we must keep his counsel, that he may not be
dubbed a quiz--not a word of this sort, Harry, for the Darrells, the
Lardners, or the Dartfords."

"I don't care whether they dub me a quiz or not," said Harry, hastily:
"what are Darrells, Lardners, or Dartfords to me?"

"They are something to _me_," said Sir Ulick.

"Oh! I beg pardon, sir--I didn't know that--that makes it quite another
affair."

"And, Harry, as you are to meet these young men, I thought it well to try
how you could bear to be laughed at--I have tried you in this very
conversation, and found you, to my infinite satisfaction, _ridicule proof_
--better than even _bullet proof_--much better. No danger that a young man
of spirit should be bullied out of his opinion and principles, but great
danger that he might be _laughed_ out of them--and I rejoice, my dear ward,
to see that you are safe from this peril."

Benevolent pleasure shone in Dr. Cambray's countenance, when he heard Sir
Ulick speak in this manner.

"You will dine with us, Dr. Cambray?" said Sir Ulick. "Harry, you will not
forget Castle Hermitage?"

"Forget Castle Hermitage! as if I could, where I spent my happy childhood--
that paradise, as it seemed to me the first time--when, a poor little
orphan boy, I was brought from my smoky cabin. I remember the day as well
as if it were this moment--when you took me by the hand, and led me in, and
I clung to you."

"Cling to me still! cling to me ever," interrupted Sir Ulick, "and I will
never fail you--no, never," repeated he, grasping Harry's hand, and looking
upon him with an emotion of affection, strongly felt, and therefore
strongly expressed.

"To be sure I will," said Harry.

"And I hope," added Sir Ulick, recovering the gaiety of his tone, "that at
Castle Hermitage a paradise will open for your youth as it opened for your
childhood."

Mrs. Cambray put in a word of hope and fear about Vicar's Dale. To which
Ormond answered, "Never fear, Mrs. Cambray--trust me--I know my own
interest too well."

Sir Ulick turning again as he was leaving the room, said with an air of
frank liberality, "We'll settle that at once--we'll divide Harry between
us--or we'll divide his day thus: the mornings I leave you to your friends
and studies for an hour or two Harry, in this Vale of Eden--the rest of the
day we must have you--men and books best mixed--see Bacon, and see every
clever man that ever wrote or spoke. So here," added Sir Ulick, pointing to
a map of history, which lay on the table, "you will have _The Stream of
Time_, and with us _Le Courant du Jour."_

Sir Ulick departed. During the whole of this conversation, and of that of
the preceding night, while he seemed to be talking at random of different
things, unconnected and of opposite sorts, he had carefully attended to one
object. Going round the whole circle of human motives--love, ambition,
interest, ease, pleasure, he had made accurate observation on his ward's
mind; and reversing the order, he went round another way, and repeated and
corrected his observations. The points he had strongly noted for practical
use were, that for retaining influence over his ward, he must depend not
upon interested motives of any kind, nor upon the force of authority or
precedent, nor yet on the power of ridicule, but principally upon feelings
of honour, gratitude, and generosity. Harry now no longer crossed any of
his projects, but was become himself the means of carrying many into
execution. The plan of a match for Marcus with Miss Annaly was entirely at
an end. That young lady had given a decided refusal; and some
circumstances, which we cannot here stop to explain, rendered Marcus and
his father easy under that disappointment. No jealousy or competition
existing, therefore, any longer between his son and ward, Sir Ulick's
affection for Ormond returned in full tide; nor did he reproach himself for
having banished Harry from Castle Hermitage, or for having formerly
neglected, and almost forgotten him for two or three years. Sir Ulick took
the matter up just as easily as he had laid it down--he now looked on Harry
not as the youth whom he had deserted, but as the orphan boy whom he had
cherished in adversity, and whom he had a consequent right to produce and
patronize in prosperity. Beyond, or beneath all this, there was another
reason why Sir Ulick took so much pains, and felt so much anxiety, to
establish his influence over his ward. This reason cannot yet be mentioned
--he had hardly revealed it to himself--it was deep down in his soul--to be
or not to be--as circumstances, time, and the hour, should decide.



CHAPTER XIX.

After having lived so long in retirement, our young hero, when he was to
go into company again, had many fears that his manners would appear rustic
and unfashioned. With all these apprehensions as to his manners there was
mixed a large proportion of pride of character, which tended rather to
increase than to diminish his apparent timidity. He dreaded that people
would value him, or think that he valued himself, for his newly acquired
fortune, instead of his good qualities: he feared that he should be
flattered; and he feared that he should like flattery. In the midst of all
these various and contradictory apprehensions, he would perhaps have been
awkward and miserable, had he been introduced into society by one who had
less knowledge of the world, or less knowledge of the human heart, than Sir
Ulick O'Shane possessed. Sir Ulick treated him as if he had always lived in
good company. Without presupposing any ignorance, he at the same time took
care to warn him of any etiquette or modern fashion, so that no one should
perceive the warning but themselves. He neither offended Ormond's pride by
seeming to patronize or _produce_ him, nor did he let his timidity suffer
from uncertainty or neglect. Ormond's fortune was never adverted to, in any
way that could hurt his desire to be valued for his own sake; but he was
made to feel that it was a part, and a very agreeable part, of his personal
merit. Managed in this kind and skilful manner, he became perfectly at ease
and happy. His spirits rose, and he enjoyed every thing with the warmth of
youth, and with the enthusiasm of his natural character.

The first evening that "the earthly paradise" of Castle Hermitage re-opened
upon his view, he was presented to all the well-dressed, well-bred belles.
Black, brown, and fair, for the first hour appeared to him all beautiful.
His guardian standing apart, and seeming to listen to a castle secretary,
who was whispering to him of state affairs, observed all that was passing.

Contrary to his guardian's expectations, however, Ormond was the next
morning faithful to his resolution, and did not appear among the angels at
the breakfast-table at Castle Hermitage. "It won't last a good week," said
Sir Ulick to himself. But that good week, and the next, it lasted. Harry's
studies, to be sure, were sometimes interrupted by floating visions of the
Miss Darrells, Dartfords, and Lardners. He every now and then sung bits of
their songs, repeated their bon-mots, and from time to time laying down his
book, started up and practised quadrille steps, to refresh himself, and
increase his attention. His representations of all he saw and heard at
Castle Hermitage, and his frank and natural description of the impression
that every thing and every body made upon him, were amusing and interesting
to his friends at Vicar's Dale. It was not by satire that he amused them,
but by simplicity mixed with humour and good sense--good sense sometimes
half opening his eyes, and humour describing what he saw with those eyes,
half open, half shut.

"Pray what sort of people are the Darrells and Dartfords?" said Mrs.
Cambray.

"Oh! delightful--the girls especially--sing like angels."

"Well, the ladies I know are all angels with you at present--that you have
told us several times."

"It's really true, I believe--at least as far as I can see: but you know I
have not had time to see farther than the outside yet."

"The gentlemen, however--I suppose you have seen the inside of some of
them?"

"Certainly--those who have any thing inside of them--Dartford, for
instance."

"Well, Mr. Dartford, he is the man Sir Ulick said was so clever."

"Very clever--he is--I suppose, though I don't really recollect any thing
remarkable that I have heard him say. But the wit must be _in_ him--and he
lets out a good deal of his opinions--of his opinion of himself a little
too much. But he is much admired."

"And Mr. Darrell--what of him?"

"Very fashionable. But indeed all I know about him is, that his dress is
_quite the thing_, and that he knows more about dishes and cooks than I
could have conceived any man upon earth of his age could know--but they say
it's the fashion--he is very fashionable, I hear."

"But is he conceited?"

"Why, I do not know--his manner might appear a little conceited--but in
reality he must be wonderfully humble--for he certainly values his horses
far above himself--and then he is quite content if his boot-tops are
admired. By-the-bye, there is a _famous invaluable_ receipt he has for
polishing those boot-tops, which is to make quite another man of me--if I
don't forget to put him in mind about it."

"And Mr. Lardner?"

"Oh! a pleasant young man--has so many good songs, and good stories, and is
so good-natured in repeating them. But I hope people won't make him repeat
them too often, for I can conceive one might be tired, in time."

During the course of the first three weeks, Harry was three times in
imminent danger of falling in love--first, with the beautiful, and
beautifully dressed, Miss Darrell, who danced, sung, played, rode, did
every thing charmingly, and was universally admired. She was remarkably
good-humoured, even when some of her companions were rather cross. Miss
Darrell reigned queen of the day, and queen of the ball, for three days and
three nights, unrivalled in our young hero's eyes; but on the fourth night,
Ormond chancing to praise the fine shape of one of her very dear friends,
Miss Darrell whispered, "She owes that fine shape to a finely padded
corset. Oh! I am clear of what I tell you--she is my intimate friend."

From that moment Ormond was cured of all desire to be the intimate friend
of this fair lady. The second peerless damsel, whose praises he sounded to
Dr. Cambray, between the fits of reading Middleton's Cicero, was Miss Eliza
Darrell, the youngest of the three sisters: she was not yet _come out_,
though in the mean time allowed to appear at Castle Hermitage; and she was
so _nave_, and so timid, and so very bashful, that Sir Ulick was forced
always to bring her into the room leaning on his arm;--she could really
hardly walk into a room--and if any body looked at her, she was so much
distressed--and there were such pretty confusions and retreatings, and such
a manoeuvring to get to the side-table every day, and "Sir Ulick so
terribly determined it should not be." It was all naturally acted, and by a
young pretty actress. Ormond, used only to the gross affectation of Dora,
did not suspect that there was any affectation in the case. He pitied her
so much, that Sir Ulick was certain "love was in the next degree." Of this
the young lady herself was still more secure; and in her security she
forgot some of her graceful timidity. It happened that, in standing up for
country dances one night, some dispute about precedency occurred. Miss
Eliza Darrell was the _honourable_ Eliza Darrell; and some young lady, who
was not honourable, in contempt, defiance, neglect, or ignorance, stood
above her. The timid Eliza remonstrated in no very gentle voice, and the
colour came into her face--"the eloquent blood spoke" too plainly. She!--
the gentle Eliza!--pushed for her place, and with her honourable elbows
made way for herself; for what will not even well-bred belles do in a
crowd? Unfortunately, well-bred beaux are bound to support them. Ormond was
on the point of being drawn into a quarrel with the partner of the
offending party, when Sir Ulick appearing in the midst, and not seeming to
know that any thing was going wrong, broke up the intended set of country
dances, by insisting upon it that the Miss Darrells had promised him a
quadrille, and that they must dance it then, as there was but just time
before supper. Harry, who had seen how little his safety was in the eye of
the gentle Eliza, in comparison with the most trifling point of her
offended pride, was determined in future not to expose himself to similar
danger. The next young lady who took his fancy was of course as unlike the
last as possible: she was one of the remarkably pleasant, sprightly,
clever, most agreeable Miss Lardners. She did not interest him much, but
she amused him exceedingly. Her sister had one day said to her, "Anne, you
can't be pretty, so you had better be odd." Anne took the advice, set up
for being odd, and succeeded. She was a mimic, a wit, and very satirical;
and as long as the satire touched only those for whom he did not care,
Ormond was extremely diverted. He did not think it quite feminine or
amiable, but still it was entertaining: there was also something flattering
in being exempted from this general reprobation and ridicule. Miss Lardner
was intolerant of all insipid people--_flats_, as she called them. How far
Ormond might have been drawn on by this laughing, talking, satirical,
flattering wit, there is no saying; but luckily they fell out one evening
about old Lady Annaly. Miss Lardner was not aware that Ormond knew, much
less could she have conceived, that he liked her ladyship. Miss Lardner was
mimicking her, for the amusement of a set of young ladies who were standing
round the fire after dinner, when Harry Ormond came in: he was not quite as
much diverted as she expected.

"Mr. Ormond does not know the _original_--the copy is lost upon him," said
Miss Lardner; "and happy it is for you," continued she, turning to him,
"that you do not know her, for Lady Annaly is as stiff and tiresome an
original as ever was seen or heard of;--and the worst of it is, she is an
original without originality."

"Lady Annaly!" cried Ormond, with surprise, "surely not the Lady Annaly I
know."

"There's but one that I know of--Heaven forbid that there were two! But I
beg your pardon, Mr. Ormond, if she is a friend of yours--I humbly beg your
forgiveness--I did not know your taste was so _very good!_--.Lady Annaly is
a fine old lady, certainly--vastly respectable; and I so far agree with
Mr. Ormond, that of the two paragons, mother and daughter, I prefer the
mother. Paragons in their teens are insufferable:--patterns of perfection
are good for nothing in society, except to be torn to pieces."

Miss Lardner pursued this diversion of tearing them to pieces, still
flattering herself that her present wit and drollery would prevail with
Ormond, as she had found it prevail with most people against an absent
friend. But Ormond thought upon this occasion she showed more flippancy
than wit, and more ill-nature than humour. He was shocked at the want of
feeling and reverence for age with which she, a young girl, just entering
into the world, spoke of a person of Lady Annaly's years and high
character. In the heat of attack, and in her eagerness to carry her point
against the Annalys, the young lady, according to custom, proceeded from
sarcasm to scandal. Every ill-natured report she had ever heard against any
of the family, she now repeated with exaggeration and asseverations--
vehement in proportion to the weakness of proof. She asserted that Lady
Annaly, with all her high character, was very hard-hearted to some of her
nearest family connexions. Sweet Lady Millicent!--Oh! how barbarously she
used her!--Miss Annaly too she attacked, as a cold-blooded jilt. If the
truth must be told, she had actually broken the heart of a young nobleman,
who was fool enough to be taken in by her sort of manner: and the son, the
famous Sir Herbert Annaly! he was an absolute miser: Miss Lardner declared
that she knew, from the best authority, most shameful instances of his
shabbiness.

The instances were stated, but Ormond could not believe these stories; and
what was more, he began to doubt the good faith of the person by whom they
were related. He suspected that she uttered these slanders, knowing them to
be false.

Miss Lardner observing that Ormond made no farther defence, but now stood
silent, and with downcast eyes, flattered herself that she had completely
triumphed. Changing the subject, she would have resumed with him her
familiar, playful tone; but all chance of her ever triumphing over Ormond's
head or heart was now at an end: so finished the third of his three weeks'
_fancies_. Such evanescent fancies would not have been worth mentioning,
but for the effect produced on his mind; though they left scarcely any
individual traces, they made a general and useful impression. They produced
a permanent contempt for _scandal_, that common vice of idle society. He
determined to guard against it cautiously himself; and ever after, when he
saw a disposition to it in any woman, however highly-bred, highly-
accomplished, or highly-gifted, he considered her as a person of mean mind,
with whom he could never form any connexion of friendship or love.

The Lardners, Darrells, Dartfords, vanished, and new figures were to appear
in the magic lantern at Castle Hermitage. Sir Ulick thought a few
preliminary observations necessary to his ward. His opinion of Ormond's
capacity and steadiness had considerably diminished, in consequence of his
various mistakes of character, and sudden changes of opinion; for Sir
Ulick, with all his abilities, did not discriminate between want of
understanding, and want of practice. Besides, he did not see the whole: he
saw the outward boyish folly--he did not see the inward manly sense; he
judged Ormond by a false standard, by comparison with the young men of the
world of his own age. He knew that none of these, even of moderate
capacity, could have been three times in three weeks so near being _taken
in_--not one would have made the sort of blunders, much less would any one,
having made them, have acknowledged them as frankly as Ormond did. It was
this _imprudent_ candour which lowered him most in his guardian's
estimation. From not having lived in society, Harry was not aware of the
signs and tokens of folly or wisdom by which the world judge; the opinion
of the bystanders had not habitual power over him. While the worldly young
men guarded themselves with circumspect self-love against every external
appearance of folly, Harry was completely unguarded: they lived cheaply
upon borrowed wisdom; he profited dearly, but permanently, by his own
experience.

"My dear boy," said Sir Ulick, "are you aware that his Excellency the Lord
Lieutenant is coming to Castle Hermitage to-morrow?"

"Yes, sir; so I heard you say," replied Harry. "What sort of a man is he?"

"_Man!_" repeated Sir Ulick, smiling. "In the first place, he is a very
_great_ man, and may be of great service to you."

"How so, sir? I don't want any thing from him. Now I have a good fortune of
my own, what can I want from any man--or if I must not say _man_, any
_great_ man?"

"My dear Harry, though a man's fortune is good, it may be better for
pushing it."

"And worse, may it not, sir? Did not I hear you speaking last night of Lord
Somebody, who had been pushing his fortune all his life, and died
pennyless?"

"True, because he pushed ill; if he had pushed well, he would have got into
a good place."

"I thank Heaven, I can get that now without any pushing."

"You can!--yes, by my interest perhaps you mean."

"No; by my own money, I mean."

"Bribery and corruption! Harry. Places are not in this country to be
bought--openly--these are things one must not talk of: and pray, with your
own money--if you could--what place upon earth would you purchase?"

"The only place in the world I should wish for, sir, would be a place in
the country."

Sir Ulick was surprised and alarmed; but said not a word that could betray
his feelings.

"A place of my own," continued Ormond, "a comfortable house and estate, on
which I could live independently and happily, with some charming amiable
woman."

"Darrell, Dartford, Lardner, which?" said Sir Ulick, with a sarcastic
smile.

"I am cured of these foolish fancies, sir."

"Well, there is another more dangerous might seize you, against which I
must warn you, and I trust one word of advice you will not take amiss."

"Sir, I am very much obliged to you: how could I take advice from you as
any thing but a proof of friendship?"

"Then, my dear boy, I must tell you, _in confidence_, what you will find
out the first night you are in his company, that his Excellency drinks
hard."

"No danger of my following his example," said Harry. "Thank you, sir, for
the warning; but I am sure enough of myself on this point, because I have
been tried--and when I would not drink to please my own dear King Corny,
there is not much danger of my drinking to please a Lord Lieutenant, who,
after all, is nothing to me."

"After all," said Sir Ulick; "but you are not come to _after all_ yet--you
know nothing about his Excellency yet."

"Nothing but what you have told me, sir: if he drinks hard, I think he sets
no very good example as a Lord Lieutenant of Ireland."

"What oft was thought, perhaps, but ne'er so bluntly expressed," said Sir
Ulick.

Sir Ulick was afterwards surprised to see the firmness with which his ward,
when in company with persons of the first rank and fashion, resisted the
combined force of example, importunity, and ridicule. Dr. Cambray was
pleased, but not surprised; for he had seen in his young friend other
instances of this adherence to whatever he had once been convinced was
right. Resolution is a quality or power of mind totally independent of
knowledge of the world. The habit of self-control can be acquired by any
individual, in any situation. Ormond had practised and strengthened it,
even in the retirement of the Black Islands.

Other and far more dangerous trials were now preparing for him; but before
we go on to these, it may be expected that we should not pass over in
silence the vice-regal visit--and yet what can we say about it? All that
Ormond could say was, that "he supposed it was a great honour, but it was
no great pleasure."

The mornings, two out of five, being rainy, hung very heavily on hand in
spite of the billiard-room. Fine weather, riding, shooting, or boating,
killed time well enough till dinner; and Harry said he liked this part of
the business exceedingly, till he found that some great men were very
cross, if they did not shoot as many little birds as he did. Then came
dinner, the great point of relief and reunion!--and there had been late
dinners, and long dinners, and great dinners, fine plate, good dishes, and
plenty of wine, but a dearth of conversation--the natural topics chained up
by etiquette. One half of the people at table were too prudent, the other
half too stupid, to talk. Sir Ulick talked away indeed; but even he was not
half so entertaining as usual, because he was forced to bring down his wit
and humour to _court quality_. In short, till the company had drunk a
certain quantity of wine, nothing was said worth repeating, and afterwards
nothing repeatable.

After the vice-regal raree show was over, and that the grand folk had been
properly bowed into their carriages, and had fairly driven away, there was
some diversion to be had. People, without yawning, seemed to recover from a
dead sleep; the state of the atmosphere was changed; there was a happy
thaw; the frozen words and bits and ends of conversations were repeated in
delightful confusion. The men of wit, in revenge for their prudent silence,
were now happy and noisy beyond measure. Ormond was much entertained: he
had an opportunity of being not only amused but instructed by conversation,
for all the great dealers in information, who had kept up their goods while
there was no market, now that there was a demand, unpacked, and brought
them out in profusion. There was such a rich supply, and such a quick and
happy intercourse of wit and knowledge, as quite delighted, almost dazzled,
his eyes; but his eyes were strong. He had a mind untainted with envy,
highly capable of emulation. Much was indeed beyond, or above, the reach of
his present powers; but nothing was beyond his generous admiration--nothing
above his future hopes of attainment. The effect and more than the effect,
which Sir Ulick had foreseen, was produced on Ormond's mind by hearing the
conversation of some of those who had distinguished themselves in political
life; he caught their spirit--their ambition: his wish was no longer merely
to see the world, but to distinguish himself in it. His guardian saw the
noble ambition rising in his mind. Oh! at that instant, how could he think
of debasing it to servile purposes--of working this great power only for
paltry party ends?



CHAPTER XX.

New circumstances arose, which unexpectedly changed the course of our
hero's mind. There was a certain Lady Millicent, whose name Lady Norton had
read from her memorandum-book among the list of guests expected at Castle
Hermitage. Sir Ulick, as Ormond recollected, had pronounced her to be a
charming, elegant, fascinating creature. Sir Ulick's praise was sometimes
exaggerated, and often lavished from party motives, or given half in jest
and half in earnest, against his conscience. But when he did speak
sincerely, no man's taste or judgment as to female beauty, manners, and
character, could be more safely trusted.

He was sincere in all he said of Lady Millicent's appearance and manners;
but as to the rest, he did not think himself bound to tell all he knew
about her.

Her ladyship arrived at Castle Hermitage. Ormond saw her, and thought that
his guardian had not in the least exaggerated as to her beauty, grace, or
elegance.

She was a very young widow, still in mourning for her husband, a gallant
officer, who had fallen the preceding year at a siege in Flanders.

Lady Millicent, as Lady Norton said, had not recovered, and she feared
never would recover from the shock her health had received at the time of
her husband's death. This account interested Ormond exceedingly for the
young widow.

There was something peculiarly engaging in the pensive softness and modesty
of her manner. It appeared free from affectation. Far from making any
display of her feelings, she seemed as much as possible to repress them,
and to endeavour to be cheerful, that she might not damp the gaiety of
others. Her natural disposition, Lady Norton said, was very sprightly; and
however passive and subdued she might appear at present, she was of a high
independent spirit, that would, on any great occasion, think and act for
itself. Better and better--each trait suited Ormond's character more and
more: his own observation confirmed the high opinion which the praises of
her friend tended to inspire. Ormond was particularly pleased with the
indulgent manner in which Lady Millicent spoke of her own sex; she was free
from that propensity to detraction which had so disgusted him in his last
love. Even of those by whom, as it had been hinted to him, she had been
hardly treated, she spoke with gentleness and candour. Recollecting Miss
Lardner's assertion, that "Lady Annaly had used Lady Millicent
barbarously," he purposely mentioned Lady Annaly, to hear what she would
say. "Lady Annaly," said she, "is a most respectable woman--she has her
prejudices--who is there that has not?--It is unfortunate for me that she
has been prepossessed against _me_. She is one of my nearest connexions by
marriage--one to whom I might have looked in difficulty and distress--one
of the few persons whose assistance and interference I would willingly have
accepted, and would even have stooped to ask; but unhappily--I can tell
you no more," said she, checking herself: "it is every way an unfortunate
affair; and," added she, after a deep sigh, "the most unfortunate part of
it is, that it is my own fault."

_That_ Ormond could hardly believe; and whether it were or not, whatever
the unfortunate affair might be, the candour, the gentleness, with which
she spoke, even when her feelings were obviously touched and warm,
interested him deeply in her favour. He had heard that the Annalys were
just returning to Ireland, and he determined to go as soon as possible to
see them: he hoped they would come to Castle Hermitage, and that this
coolness might be made up. Meantime the more he saw of Lady Millicent, the
more he was charmed with her. Sir Ulick was much engaged with various
business in the mornings, and Lady Norton, Lady Millicent, and Ormond,
spent their time together: walking, driving in the sociable, or boating on
the lake, they were continually together. Lady Norton, a very good kind of
well-bred little woman, was a nonentity in conversation; but she never
interrupted it, nor laid the slightest restraint on any one by her
presence, which, indeed, was usually forgotten by Ormond. His conversation
with Lady Millicent generally took a sentimental turn. She did not always
speak sense, but she talked elegant nonsense with a sweet persuasive voice
and eloquent eyes: hers was a kind of exalted sentimental morality,
referring every thing to feeling, and to the notion of _sacrifice_, rather
than to a sense of duty, principle, or reason. She was all for sensibility
and enthusiasm--enthusiasm in particular--with her there was no virtue
without it. Acting from the hope of making yourself or others happy, or
from any view of utility, was acting merely from low selfish motives. Her
"point of virtue was so high, that ordinary mortals might well console
themselves by perceiving the impossibility of ever reaching it." Exalted to
the clouds, she managed matters as she pleased there, and made charming
confusion. When she condescended to return to earth, and attempted to
define--no, not to define--definitions were death to her imagination!--but
to _describe_ her notions, she was nearly unintelligible. She declared,
however, that she understood herself perfectly well; and Ormond, deceived
by eloquence, of which he was a passionate admirer, thought that he
understood when he only _felt_. Her ideas of virtue were carried to such
extremes, that they touched the opposite vices--in truth, there was nothing
to prevent them; for the line between right and wrong, that line which
should be strongly marked, was effaced: so delicately had sentiment shaded
off its boundaries. These female metaphysics, this character of exalted
imagination and sensitive softness, was not quite so cheap and common some
years ago, as it has lately become. The consequences to which it
practically leads were not then fully foreseen and understood. At all times
a man experienced in female character, who had any knowledge of the world,
even supposing he had no skill in metaphysics, would easily have seen to
what all this tends, and where it usually terminates; and such a man would
never have thought of marrying Lady Millicent. But Ormond was
inexperienced: the whole, matter and manner, was new to him; he was struck
with the delicacy and sensibility of the fair sophist, and with all that
was ingenious and plausible in the doctrine, instead of being alarmed by
its dangerous tendency. It should be observed, in justice to Lady
Millicent, that she was perfectly sincere--if we may use the expression _of
good faith_ in absurdities. She did not use this sentimental sophistry, as
it has since been too often employed by many, to veil from themselves the
criminality of passion, or to mark the deformity of vice: there was,
perhaps, the more immediate hazard of her erring from ignorance and
rashness; but there was also, in her youth and innocence, a chance that she
might instinctively start back the moment she should see the precipice.

One evening Sir Ulick was talking of Lord Chesterfield's Letters, a book at
that time much in vogue, but which the good sense and virtue of England
soon cast into disrepute; and which, in spite of the charms of wit and
style, in spite of many sparkling and some valuable observations mixed with
its corruption, has since sunk, fortunately for the nation, almost into
oblivion. But when these _private_ letters were first published, and when
my lord, who now appears so stiff and awkward, was in the fashion of the
day, there was no withstanding it. The book was a manual of education--with
the vain hope of getting cheaply second-hand knowledge of the world, it was
read universally by every young man entering life, from the nobleman's son,
while his hair was powdering, to the 'prentice thumbing it surreptitiously
behind the counter. Sir Ulick O'Shane, of course, recommended it to his
ward: to Lady Millicent's credit, she inveighed against it with honest
indignation.

"What!" said Sir Ulick, smiling, "you are shocked at the idea of Lord
Chesterfield's advising his pupil at Paris to prefer a reputable affair
with a married woman, to a disreputable intrigue with an opera girl! Well,
I believe you are right as an Englishwoman, my dear Lady Millicent; and I
am clear, at all events, that you are right, as a woman, to blush so
eloquently with virtuous indignation:--Lady Annaly herself could not have
spoken and looked the thing better."

"So I was just thinking," said Ormond.

"Only the difference, Harry, between a young and an elderly woman," said
Sir Ulick. "Truths divine come mended from the lips of youth and beauty."

His compliment was lost upon Lady Millicent. At the first mention of Lady
Annaly's name she had sighed deeply, and had fallen into reverie--and
Ormond, as he looked at her, fell into raptures at the tender expression of
her countenance. Sir Ulick tapped him on the shoulder, and drawing him a
little on one side, "Take care of your heart, young man," whispered he: "no
serious attachment here--remember, I warn you." Lady Norton joined them,
and nothing more was said.

"Take care of my heart," thought Ormond: "why should I guard it against
such a woman?--what better can I do with it than offer it to such a woman?"

A thought had crossed Ormond's mind which recurred at this instant. From
the great admiration Sir Ulick expressed for Lady Millicent, and the
constant attention--more than gallant--tender attention, which Sir Ulick
paid her, Ormond was persuaded that, but for that half of the broken chain
of matrimony which still encumbered him whom it could not bind, Sir Ulick
would be very glad to offer Lady Millicent not only his heart but his hand.
Suspecting this partiality, and imagining a latent jealousy, Ormond did not
quite like to consult his guardian about his own sentiments and
proceedings. He wished previously to consult his impartial and most safe
friend, Dr. Cambray. But Dr. Cambray had been absent from home ever since
the arrival of Lady Millicent. The doctor and his family had been on a
visit to a relation at a distance. Ormond, impatient for their return, had
every day questioned the curate; and at last, in reply to his regular
question of "When do you expect the doctor, sir?" he heard the glad tidings
of "We expect him to-morrow, or next day, sir, positively."

The next day, Ormond, who was now master of a very elegant phaeton and
beautiful gray horses, and, having for some time been under the tuition of
that knowing whip Tom Darrell, could now drive to admiration, prevailed
upon Lady Millicent to trust herself with him in his phaeton--Sir Ulick
came up just as Ormond had handed Lady Millicent into the carriage, and,
pressing on his ward's shoulder, said, "Have you the reins safe?"

"Yes."

"That's well--remember now, Harry Ormond," said he, with a look which gave
a double meaning to his words, "remember, I charge you, the warning I gave
you last niwht--drive carefully--pray, young sir, look before you--no
rashness!--young horses these," added he, patting the horses--"pray be
careful, Harry."

Ormond promised to be very careful, and drove off.

"I suppose," thought he, "my guardian must have some good reason for this
reiterated caution; I will not let her see my sentiments till I know his
reasons; besides, as Dr. Cambray returns to-morrow, I can wait another
day."

Accordingly, though not without putting considerable restraint upon
himself, Ormond talked of the beauties of nature, and of indifferent
matters. The conversation rather nagged, and sometimes on her ladyship's
side as well as on his. He fancied that she was more reserved than usual,
and a little embarrassed. He exerted himself to entertain her--that was but
common civility;--he succeeded, was pleased to see her spirits rise, and
her embarrassment wear off. When she revived, her manner was this day so
peculiarly engaging, and the tones of her voice so soft and winning, that
it required all Ormond's resolution to refrain from declaring his passion.
Now, for the first time, he conceived a hope that he might make himself
agreeable to her; that he might, in time, soothe her grief, and restore her
to happiness. Her expressions were all delicately careful to imply nothing
but friendship--but a woman's friendship insensibly leads to love. As they
were returning home after a delightful drive, they entered upon this
subject, so favourable to the nice casuistry of sentiment, and to the
enthusiastic eloquence of passion--when, at an opening in the road, a
carriage crossed them so suddenly, that Ormond had but just time to pull up
his horses.

"Dr. Cambray, I declare: the very man I wished to see."

The doctor, whose countenance had been full of affectionate pleasure at the
first sight of his young friend, changed when he saw who was in the phaeton
with him. The doctor looked panic-struck.

"Lady Millicent, Dr. Cambray," Ormond began the introduction; but each
bowing, said, in a constrained voice, "I have the honour of knowing--" "I
have the pleasure of being acquainted--"

The pleasure and honour seemed to be painful and embarrassing to both.

"Don't let us detain you," said the doctor; "but I hope, Mr. Ormond, you
will let me see you as soon as you can at Vicar's Dale."

"You would not doubt that, my dear doctor," said Ormond, "if you knew how
impatient I have been for your return--I will be with you before you are
all out of the carriage."

"The sooner the better," said the doctor.

"The sooner the better," echoed the friendly voices of Mrs. Cambray and her
daughter.

Ormond drove on; but from this moment, till they reached Castle Hermitage,
no more agreeable conversation passed between him and his fair companion.
It was all constrained.

"I was not aware that Dr. Cambray had the honour of being acquainted with
Lady Millicent," said Ormond.

"O yes! I had the pleasure some time ago," replied Lady Millicent, "when he
was in Dublin--not lately--I was a great favourite of his once."

"Once, and always, I should have thought."

"Dr. Cambray's a most amiable, respectable man," said her ladyship: "he
must be a great acquisition in this neighbourhood--a good clergyman is
valuable every where; in Ireland most especially, where the spirit of
conciliation is much wanted. 'Tis unknown how much a good clergyman may do
in Ireland."

"Very true--certainly."

So with a repetition of truisms, interspersed with reflections on the state
of Ireland, tithes, and the education of the poor, they reached Castle
Hermitage.

"Lady Millicent, you look pale," said Sir Ulick, as he handed her out.

"Oh, no, I have had a most delightful drive."

Harry just stayed to say that Dr. Cambray was returned, and that he must
run to see him, and off he went. He found the doctor in his study.

"Well, my dear doctor," said Ormond, in breathless consternation, "what is
the matter?"

"Nothing, I hope," said the doctor, looking earnestly in Ormond's face;
"and yet your countenance tells me that my fears are well founded."

"What is it you fear, sir?"

"The lady who was in the phaeton with you, Lady Millicent, I fear--"

"Why should you fear, sir?--Oh! tell me at once--what do you know of her?"

"At once, then, I know her to be a very imprudent, though hope she is still
an innocent woman."

"Innocent!" repeated Ormond. "Good Heavens! is it possible that there can
be any doubt? Imprudent! My dear doctor, perhaps you have been
misinformed."

"All I know on the subject is this," said Dr. Cambray: "during Lord
Millicent's absence on service, a gentleman of high rank and gallantry paid
assiduous attention to Lady Millicent. Her relation and friend, Lady
Annaly, advised her to break off all intercourse with this gentleman in
such a decided manner, as to silence scandal. Lady Millicent followed but
half the advice of her friend; she discountenanced the public attentions of
her admirer, but she took opportunities of meeting him at private parties:
Lady Annaly again interfered--Lady Millicent was offended: but the death of
her husband saved her from farther danger, and opened her eyes to the views
of a man, who thought her no longer worthy his pursuit, when he might have
her for life."

Ormond saw that there was no resource for him but immediately to quit
Castle Hermitage; therefore, the moment he returned, he informed Sir Ulick
of his determination, pointing out to him the impropriety of his remaining
in the society of Lady Millicent, when his opinion of her character and the
sentiments which had so strongly influenced his behaviour, were irrevocably
changed. This was an unexpected blow upon Sir Ulick: he had his private
reasons for wishing to detain Ormond at Castle Hermitage till he was of
age, to dissipate his mind by amusement and variety, and to obtain over it
an habitual guidance.

Ormond proposed immediately to visit the continent: by the time he should
arrive at Paris, Dora would be settled there, and he should be introduced
into the best company. The subtle Sir Ulick, perceiving that Ormond must
change his quarters, advised him to see something of his own country before
he went abroad. In the course of a few days, various letters of
recommendation were procured for him from Sir Ulick and his connexions;
and, what was of still more consequence, from Dr. Cambray and his friends.

During this interval, Ormond once more visited the Black Islands; scenes
which recalled a thousand tender, and a few embittering, recollections. He
was greeted with heartfelt affection by many of the inhabitants of the
island, with whom he had passed some of his boyish days. Of some scenes he
had to be ashamed, but of others he was justly proud; and from every tongue
he heard the delightful praises of his departed friend and benefactor.

His little farm had been well managed during his absence; the trees he had
planted began to make some appearance; and, upon the whole, his visit to
the Black Islands revived his generous feelings, and refreshed those traces
of early virtue which had been engraven on his heart.

At Castle Hermitage every thing had been prepared for his departure; and
upon visiting his excellent friend at the vicarage, he found the whole
family heartily interested in his welfare, and ready to assist him, by
letters of introduction to the best people in every part of Ireland which
Ormond intended to visit.



CHAPTER XXI.

During the course of Ormond's tour through Ireland, he frequently found
himself in company with those who knew the history of public affairs for
years past, and were but too well acquainted with the political profligacy
and shameful jobbing of Sir Ulick O'Shane.

Some of these gentlemen, knowing Mr. Ormond to be his ward, refrained, of
course, from touching upon any subject relative to Sir Ulick; and when
Ormond mentioned him, evaded the conversation, or agreed in general terms
in praising his abilities, wit, and address. But, after a day or two's
journey from Castle Hermitage, when he was beyond his own and the adjoining
counties, when he went into company with those who happened to know nothing
of his connexion with Sir Ulick O'Shane, then he heard him spoken of in a
very different manner. He was quite astonished and dismayed by the general
abuse, as he thought it, which was poured upon him.

"Well, every man of abilities excites envy--every man who takes a part in
politics, especially in times when parties run high, must expect to be
abused: they must bear it; and their friends must learn to bear it for
them."

Such were the reflections with which Ormond at first comforted himself. As
far as party abuse went, this was quite satisfactory; even facts, or what
are told as facts, are so altered by the manner of seeing them by an
opposite party, that, without meaning to traduce, they calumniate. Ormond
entrenched himself in total disbelief, and cool assertion of his disbelief,
of a variety of anecdotes he continually heard discreditable to Sir Ulick.
Still he expected that, when he went into other company, and met with men
of Sir Ulick's own party, he should obtain proofs of the falsehood of these
stories, and by that he might be able, not only to contradict, but to
confute them. People, however, only smiled, and told him that he had better
inquire no farther, if he expected to find Sir Ulick an immaculate
character. Those who liked him best, laughed off the notorious instances of
his public defection of principle, and of his private jobbing, as good
jokes; proofs of his knowledge of the world--his address, his frankness,
his being "not a bit of a hypocrite." But even those who professed to like
him best, and to be the least scrupulous with regard to public virtue,
still spoke with a sort of facetious contempt of Sir Ulick, as a thorough-
going friend of the powers that be--as a hack of administration--as a man
who knew well enough what he was about. Ormond was continually either
surprised or hurt by these insinuations. The concurrent testimony of
numbers who had no interest to serve, or prejudice to gratify, operated
upon him by degrees, so as to enforce conviction, and this was still more
painful.

Harry became so sore and irritable upon this subject, that he was now every
day in danger of entangling himself in some quarrel in defence of his
guardian. Several times the master of the house prevented this, and brought
him to reason, by representing that the persons who talked of Sir Ulick
were quite ignorant of his connexion with him, and spoke only according to
general opinion, and to the best of their belief, of a public character,
who was fair game. It was, at that time, much the fashion among a certain
set in Dublin, to try their wit upon each other in political and poetical
squibs--the more severe and bitter these were, the more they were
applauded: the talent for invective was in the highest demand at this
period in Ireland; it was considered as the unequivocal proof of
intellectual superiority. The display of it was the more admired, as it
could not be enjoyed without a double portion of that personal promptitude
to give the _satisfaction of a gentleman_, on which the Irish pride
themselves: the taste of the nation, both for oratory and manners, has
become of late years so much more refined, that when any of the lampoons of
that day are now recollected, people are surprised at the licence of abuse
which was then tolerated, and even approved of in fashionable society. Sir
Ulick O'Shane, as a well-known public character, had been the subject of a
variety of puns, bon-mots, songs, and epigrams, which had become so
numerous as to be collected under the title of Ulysseana. Upon the late
separation of Sir Ulick and his lady, a new edition, with a caricature
frontispiece, had been published; unfortunately for Ormond, this had just
worked its way from Dublin to this part of the country.

It happened one day, at a gentleman's house where this Ulysseana had not
yet been seen, that a lady, a visitor and a stranger, full of some of the
lines which she had learned by heart, began to repeat them for the
amusement of the tea-table. Ladies do not always consider how much mischief
they may do by such imprudence; nor how they may hazard valuable lives, for
the sake of producing a _sensation_, by the repetition of _a severe thing_.
Ormond came into the room after dinner, and with some other gentlemen
gathered round the tea-table, while the lady was repeating some extracts
from the new edition of the Ulysseana. The master and mistress of the house
made reiterated attempts to stop the lady; but, too intent upon herself and
her second-hand wit to comprehend or take these hints, she went on reciting
the following lines:--

  To serve in parliament the nation,
  Sir Ulick read his recantation:

    At first he joined the patriot throng,
    But soon perceiving he was wrong,
    He ratted to the courtier tribe,
    Bought by a title and a bribe;
    But how that new found friend to bind,
    With any oath--of any kind,
    Disturb'd the premier's wary mind.
    "_Upon his faith.--Upon his word,_"
    Oh! that, my friend, is too absurd.
    "_Upon his honour_."--Quite a jest.
    "_Upon his conscience_."--No such test.
    "_By all he has on earth_."--'Tis gone.
    "_By all his hopes of Heaven_."--They're none.
    "How then secure him in our pay--
    He can't be trusted for a day?"
    How?--When you want the fellow's throat--
    Pay by the job--you have his vote.

Sir Ulick himself, had he been present, would have laughed off the epigram
with the best grace imaginable, and so, in good policy, ought Ormond to
have taken it. But he felt it too much, and was not in the habit of
laughing when he was vexed. Most of the company, who knew any thing of his
connexion with Sir Ulick, or who understood the agonizing looks of the
master and mistress of the house, politely refrained from smiles or
applause; but a cousin of the lady who repeated the lines, a young man who
was one of the hateful tribe of _quizzers_, on purpose to _try_ Ormond,
praised the verses to the skies, and appealed to him for his opinion.

"I can't admire them, sir," replied Ormond.

"What fault can you find with them?" said the young man, winking at the
bystanders.

"I think them _incorrect_, in the first place, sir," said Ormond, "and
altogether indifferent."

"Well, at any rate, they can't be called _moderate_," said the gentleman;
"and as to incorrect, the substance, I fancy, is correctly true."

"_Fancy_, sir!--It would be hard if character were to be at the mercy of
fancy," cried Ormond, hastily; but checking himself, he, in a mild tone,
added, "before we go any farther, sir, I should inform you that I am a ward
of Sir Ulick O Shane's."

"Oh! mercy," exclaimed the lady, who had repeated the verses; "I am sure I
did not know that, or I would not have said a word--I declare I beg your
pardon, sir."

Ormond's bow and smile spoke his perfect satisfaction with the lady's
contrition, and his desire to relieve her from farther anxiety. So the
matter might have happily ended; but her cousin, though he had begun merely
with an intention to try Ormond's temper, now felt piqued by his spirit,
and thought it incumbent upon him to persist. Having drunk enough to be
ill-humoured, he replied, in an aggravating and ill-bred manner, "Your
being Sir Ulick O'Shane's ward may make a difference in your feelings, sir,
but I don't see why it should make any in my opinion."

"In the expression of that opinion at least, sir, I think it ought."

The master of the house now interfered, to explain and pacify, and Ormond
had presence of mind and command enough over himself, to say no more while
the ladies were present: he sat down, and began talking about some trifle
in a gay tone; but his flushed cheek, and altered manner, showed that he
was only repressing other feelings. The carriages of the visitors were
announced, and the strangers rose to depart. Ormond accompanied the master
of the house to hand the ladies to their carriages. To mark his being in
perfect charity with the fair penitent, he showed her particular attention,
which quite touched her; and as he put her into her carriage, she, all the
time, repeated her apologies, declared it should be a lesson to her for
life, and cordially shook hands with him at parting. For her sake, he
wished that nothing more should be said on the subject.

But, on his return to the hall, he found there the cousin, buttoning on his
great coat, and seeming loath to depart: still in ill-humour, the gentleman
said, "I hope you are satisfied with that lady's apologies, Mr. Ormond."

"I am, sir, perfectly."

"That's lucky: for apologies are easier had from ladies than gentlemen, and
become them better."

"I think it becomes gentlemen as well as ladies to make candid apologies,
where they are conscious of being wrong--if there was no intention to give
offence."

"_If_ is a great peace-maker, sir; but I scorn to take advantage of an
_if_."

"Am I to suppose then, sir," said Ormond, "that it was your intention to
offend me?"

"Suppose what you please, sir--I am not in the habit of explanation or
apology."

"Then, sir, the sooner we meet the better," said Ormond. In consequence
Ormond applied to an officer who had been present during the altercation,
to be his second. Ormond felt that he had restrained his anger
sufficiently--he was now as firm as he had been temperate. The parties met
and fought: the man who deserved to have suffered, by the chance of this
rational mode of deciding right and wrong, escaped unhurt; Ormond received
a wound in his arm. It was only a flesh wound. He was at the house of a
very hospitable gentleman, whose family were kind to him; and the
inconvenience and pain were easily borne. In the opinion of all, in that
part of the world, who knew the facts, he had conducted himself as well as
the circumstances would permit; and, as it was essential, not only to the
character of a hero, but of a gentleman at that time in Ireland, to fight a
duel, we may consider Ormond as fortunate in not having been in the wrong.
He rose in favour with the ladies, and in credit with the gentlemen, and he
heard no more of the Ulysseana; but he was concerned to see paragraphs in
all the Irish papers, about the duel that had been fought between M. N.
Esq. jun. of ----, and H. O. Esq., in consequence of a dispute that arose
about some satirical verses, repeated by a lady on a certain well-known
character, nearly related to one of the parties. A flaming account of the
duel followed, in which there was the usual newspaper proportion of truth
and falsehood: Ormond knew and regretted that this paragraph must meet the
eyes of his guardian; and still more he was sorry that Dr. Cambray should
see it. He knew the doctor's Christian abhorrence of the whole system of
duelling; and, by the statement in the papers, it appeared that that
gallant youth, H. O. Esq., to whom the news-writer evidently wished to do
honour, had been far more forward to provoke the fight than he had been, or
than he ought to have been:--his own plain statement of facts, which he
wrote to Dr. Cambray, would have set every thing to rights, but his letter
crossed the doctor's on the road. As he was now in a remote place, which
the delightful mail coach roads had not then reached--where the post came
in only three days in the week--and where the mail cart either broke down,
lost a wheel, had a tired horse, was overturned, or robbed, at an average
once a fortnight--our hero had no alternative but patience, and the
amusement of calculating dates and chances upon his restless sofa. His
taste for reading enabled him to pass agreeably some of the hours of bodily
confinement, which men, and young men especially, accustomed to a great
deal of exercise, liberty, and locomotion, generally find so intolerably
irksome. At length his wound was well enough for him to travel--letters for
him arrived: a warm, affectionate one from his guardian; and one from Dr.
Cambray, which relieved his anxiety.

"I must tell you, my dear young friend," said Dr. Cambray, "that while you
have been defending Sir Ulick O'Shane's public character (of which,
by-the-by, you know nothing), I have been defending your private character,
of which I hope and believe I know something. The truth is always known in
time, with regard to every character; and therefore, independently of other
motives, moral and religious, it is more prudent to trust to time and truth
for their defence, than to sword and pistol. I know you are impatient to
hear what were the reports to your disadvantage, and from whom I had them.
I had them from the Annalys; and they heard them in England, through
various circuitous channels of female correspondents in Ireland. As far as
we can trace them, we think that they originated with your old friend Miss
Black. The first account Lady Annaly heard of you after she went to
England, was, that you were living a most dissolute life in the Black
Islands, with King Corny, who was described to be a profligate rebel, and
his companion an ex-communicated catholic priest; king, priest, and _Prince
Harry_, getting drunk together regularly every night of their lives. The
next account which Lady Annaly received some months afterwards, in reply to
inquiries she had made from her agent, was, that it was impossible to know
any thing for certain of Mr. Harry Ormond, as he always kept in the Black
Islands. The report was, that he had lately seduced a girl of the name of
Peggy Sheridan, a respectable gardener's daughter, who was going to be
married to a man of the name of Moriarty Carroll, a person whom Mr. Ormond
had formerly shot in some unfortunate drunken quarrel. The match between
her and Moriarty had been broken off in consequence. The following year
accounts were worse and worse. This Harry Ormond had gained the affections
of his benefactor's daughter, though, as he had been warned by her father,
she was betrothed to another man. The young lady was afterwards, by her
father's anger, and by Ormond's desertion of her, thrown into the arms of a
French adventurer, whom Ormond brought into the house under pretence of
learning French from him. Immediately after the daughter's elopement with
the French master, the poor father died suddenly, in some extraordinary
manner, when out shooting with this Mr. Ormond; to whom a considerable
landed property, and a large legacy in money, were, to every body's
surprise, found to be left in a will which _he_ produced, and which the
family did not think fit to dispute. There were strange circumstances told
concerning the wake and burial, all tending to prove that this Harry Ormond
had lost all feeling. Hints were further given that he had renounced the
Protestant religion, and had turned Catholic for the sake of absolution."

Many times during the perusal of this extravagant tissue of falsehoods,
Ormond laid down and resumed the paper, unable to refrain from exclamations
of rage and contempt; sometimes almost laughing at the absurdity of the
slander. "After this," thought he, "who can mind common reports?--and yet
Dr. Cambray says that these excited some prejudice against me in the mind
of Lady Annaly. With such a woman I should have thought it impossible.
Could she believe me capable of such crimes?--_me_, of whom she had once a
good opinion?--_me_, in whose fate she said she was interested?"

He took Dr. Cambray's letter again, and read on: he found that Lady Annaly
had not credited these reports as to the atrocious accusations; but they
had so far operated as to excite doubts and suspicions. In some of the
circumstances, there was sufficient truth to colour the falsehood. For
example, with regard both to Peggy Sheridan, and Dora, the truth had been
plausibly mixed with falsehood. The story of Peggy Sheridan, Lady Annaly
had some suspicion might be true. Her ladyship, who had seen Moriarty's
generous conduct to Ormond, was indignant at his ingratitude. She was a
woman prompt to feel strong indignation against all that was base; and,
when her indignation was excited, she was sometimes incapable of hearing
what was said on the other side of the question. Her daughter Florence, of
a calmer temper and cooler judgment, usually acted as moderator on these
occasions. She could not believe that Harry Ormond had been guilty of
faults that were so opposite to those which they had seen in his
disposition:--violence, not treachery, was his fault. But why, if there
were nothing wrong, Lady Annaly urged--why did not he write to her, as she
had requested he would, when his plans for his future life were decided?--
She had told him that her son might probably be able to assist him. Why
could not he write one line?

Ormond had heard that her son was ill, and that her mind was so absorbed
with anxiety, that he could not at first venture to intrude upon her with
his selfish concerns. This was his first and best reason; but afterwards,
to be sure, when he heard that the son was better, he might have written.
He wrote at that time such a sad scrawl of a hand--he was so little used to
letter-writing, that he was ashamed to write. Then it was _too late_ after
so long a silence, &c. Foolish as these reasons were, they had, as we have
said before, acted upon our young hero; and have, perhaps, in as important
circumstances, prevented many young men from writing to friends, able and
willing to serve them. It was rather fortunate for Ormond that slander did
not stop at the first plausible falsehoods: when the more atrocious charges
came against him, Miss Annaly, who had never deserted his cause, declared
her absolute disbelief. The discussions that went on, between her and her
mother, kept alive their interest about this young man. He was likely to
have been forgotten during their anxiety in the son's illness; but fresh
reports had brought him to their recollection frequently; and when their
friend, Dr. Cambray, was appointed to the living of Castle Hermitage, his
evidence perfectly reinstated Harry in Lady Annaly's good opinion. As if to
make amends for the injustice she had done him by believing any part of the
evil reports, she was now anxious to see him again. A few days after Dr.
Cambray wrote, Ormond received a very polite and gratifying letter from
Lady Annaly, requesting that, as "Annaly" lay in his route homewards, he
would spend a few days there, and give her an opportunity of making him
acquainted with her son. It is scarcely necessary to say that this
invitation was eagerly accepted.



CHAPTER XXII.

Upon his arrival at Annaly, Ormond found that Dr. Cambray and all his
family were there.

"Yes, all your friends," said Lady Annaly, as Ormond looked round with
pleasure, "all your friends, Mr. Ormond--you must allow me an old right to
be of that number--and here is my son, who is as well inclined, as I hope
you feel, to pass over the intermediate formality of new acquaintanceship,
and to become intimate with you as soon as possible."

Sir Herbert Annaly confirmed, by the polite cordiality of his manner, all
that his mother promised; adding that their mutual friend Dr. Cambray had
made him already so fully acquainted with Mr. Ormond, that though he had
never had the pleasure of seeing him before, he could not consider him as a
stranger.

Florence Annaly was beautiful, but not one of those beauties who strike at
first sight. Hers was a face which neither challenged nor sued for
admiration. There was no expression thrown into the eyes or the eyebrows,
no habitual smile on the lips--the features were all in natural repose; the
face never expressed any thing but what the mind really felt. But if any
just observation was made in Miss Annaly's company, any stroke of genius,
that countenance instantly kindled into light and life: and if any noble
sentiment was expressed, if any generous action was related, then the soul
within illumined the countenance with a ray divine. When once Ormond had
seen this, his eye returned in hopes of seeing it again--he had an
indescribable interest and pleasure in studying a countenance, which seemed
so true an index to a noble and cultivated mind, to a heart of delicate,
but not morbid sensibility. His manners and understanding had been formed
and improved, beyond what could have been expected, from the few
opportunities of improvement he had till lately enjoyed. He was timid,
however, in conversation with those of whose information and abilities he
had a high opinion, so that at first he did not do himself justice; but in
his timidity there was no awkwardness; it was joined with such firmness of
principle, and such a resolute, manly character, that he was peculiarly
engaging to women.

During his first visit at Annaly he pleased much, and was so much pleased
with every individual of the family, with their manners, their
conversation, their affection for each other, and altogether with their
mode of living, that he declared to Dr. Cambray he never had been so happy
in his whole existence. It was a remarkable fact, however, that he spoke
much more of Lady Annaly and Sir Herbert than of Miss Annaly.

He had never before felt so very unwilling to leave any place, or so
exceedingly anxious to be invited to repeat his visit. He did receive the
wished-for invitation; and it was given in such a manner as left him no
doubt that he might indulge his own ardent desire to return, and to
cultivate the friendship of this family. His ardour for foreign travel, his
desire to see more of the world, greatly abated; and before he reached
Castle Hermitage, and by the time he saw his guardian, he had almost
forgotten that Sir Ulick had traced for him a course of travels through the
British islands and the most polished parts of the Continent.

He now told Sir Ulick that it was so far advanced in the season, that he
thought it better to spend the winter in Ireland.

"In Dublin instead of London?" said Sir Ulick, smiling; "very patriotic,
and very kind to me, for I am sure I am your first object; and depend upon
it few people, ladies always excepted, will ever like your company better
than I do."

Then Sir Ulick went rapidly over every subject, and every person, that
could lead his ward farther to explain his feelings; but now, as usual, he
wasted his address, for the ingenuous young man directly opened his whole
heart to him.

"I am impatient to tell you, sir," said he, "how very kindly I was received
by Lady Annaly."

"She is very kind," said Sir Ulick: "I suppose, in general, you have found
yourself pretty well received wherever you have gone--not to flatter you
too much on your mental or personal qualifications, and, no disparagement
to Dr. Cambray's letters of introduction or my own, five or six thousand a-
year are, I have generally observed, a tolerably good passport into
society, a sufficient passe-partout." "Passe-partout!--not _partout_--not
quite sufficient at Annaly, you cannot mean, sir--"

"Oh! I cannot mean any thing, but that Annaly is altogether the eighth
wonder of the world," said Sir Ulick, "and all the men and women in it
absolutely angels--perfect angels."

"No, sir, if you please, not perfect; for I have heard--though I own I
never saw it--that perfection is always stupid: now certainly _that_ the
Annalys are not."

"Well, well, they shall be as imperfect as you like--any thing to please
you."

"But, sir, you used to be so fond of the Annalys. I remember."

"True, and did I tell you that I had changed my opinion?"

"Your manner, though not your words, tells me so."

"You mistake: the fact is--for I always treat you, Harry, with perfect
candour--I was hurt and vexed by their refusal of my son. But, after all,"
added he, with a deep sigh, "it was Marcus's own fault--he has been very
dissipated. Miss Annaly was right, and her mother quite right, I own. Lady
Annaly is one of the most respectable women in Ireland--and Miss Annaly is
a charming girl--I never saw any girl I should have liked so much for my
daughter-in-law. But Marcus and I don't always agree in our tastes--I
don't think the refusal there, was half as great a mortification and
disappointment to him, as it was to me."

"You delight me, dear sir," cried Ormond; "for then I may feel secure that
if ever in future--I don't mean in the least that I have any present
thought--it would be absurd--it would be ridiculous--it would be quite
improper--you know I was only there ten days; but I mean if, in future, I
should ever have any thoughts--any serious thoughts--"

"Well, well," said Sir Ulick, laughing at Ormond's hesitation and
embarrassment, "I can suppose that you will have thoughts of some kind or
other, and serious thoughts in due course; but, as you justly observe, it
would be quite ridiculous at present."

"I beg your pardon, sir," interrupted Harry, "but it would even at present
be an inexpressible satisfaction to me to know, that if in future such a
thing should occur, I should be secure, in the first place, of your
approbation."

"As to that, my dear boy," said Sir Ulick, "you know in a few days you will
be at years of discretion--then my control ceases."

"Yes, sir; but not my anxiety for your approbation, and my deference for
your opinion."

"Then," said Sir Ulick, "and without circumlocution or nonsense, I tell you
at once, Harry Ormond, that Florence Annaly is the woman in the world I
should like best to see your wife."

"Thank you, sir, for this explicit answer--I am sure towards me nothing can
have been more candid and kind than your whole conduct has ever been."

"That's true, Harry," exclaimed Sir Ulick. "Tell me about this duel--you
have fought a duel in defence of my conduct and character, I understand,
since I saw you. But, my dear fellow, though I am excessively obliged to
you, I am exceedingly angry with you: how could you possibly be so
hot-heated and silly as to _take up_ any man for relishing the Ulysseana?
Bless ye! I relish it myself--I only laugh at such things: believe me, 'tis
The best way."

"I am sure of it, sir, if one can; and, indeed, I have had pretty good
proof that one should despise reports and scandal of all kinds--easier for
oneself sometimes than for one's friends."

"Yes, my dear Ormond, by the time you have been half as long living in the
great and the political world as I have been, you will be quite
case-hardened, and will hear your friends abused, without feeling it in the
least. Believe me, I once was troubled with a great deal of susceptibility
like yours--but after all, 'tis no bad thing for you to have fought a duel
--a feather in your cap with the ladies, and a warning to all impertinent
fellows to let you alone--but you were wounded, the newspaper said--I asked
you where, three times in my letters--you never condescended to answer me--
answer me now, I insist upon it."

"In my arm, sir--a slight scratch."

"Slight scratch or not, I must hear all about it--come, tell me exactly how
the thing began and ended--tell me all the rascals said of me.--You won't?
--then I'll tell you: they said, 'I am the greatest jobber in Ireland--that
I do not mind how I throw away the public money--in short, that I am a sad
political profligate.'--Well! well! I am sure, after all, they did me the
justice to acknowledge, that in private life no man's honour is more to be
depended on."

"They did do you that justice, sir," said Ormond; "but pray ask me no
farther questions--for, frankly, it is disagreeable to me--and I will tell
you no more."

"That's frank," said Sir Ulick, "and I as frankly assure you I am perfectly
satisfied."

"Then, to return to the Annalys," said Ormond, "I never saw Sir Herbert
till now--I like him--I like his principles--his love of his country--and
his attachment to his family."

"He's a very fine fellow--no better fellow than Herbert Annaly. But as for
his attachment to his family, who thanks him for that? Who could help it,
with such a family? And his love for his country--every body loves his
country."

"More or less, I suppose," said Ormond.

"But, upon my word, I entirely agree with you about Sir Herbert, though I
know he is prejudiced against me to the last degree"

"If he be, I don't know it, sir--I never found it out."

"He will let it out by and by--I only hope he will not prejudice you
against me."

"That is not very easily done, sir."

"As you have given some proof, my dear boy, and I thank you for it. But the
Annalys would go more cautiously to work--I only put you on your guard--
Marcus and Sir Herbert never could hit it off together; and I am afraid the
breach between us and the Annalys must he widened, for Marcus must stand
against Sir Herbert at the next election, if he live--Pray how is he?"

"Not strong, sir--he has a hectic colour--as I was very sorry to see."

"Ay, poor fellow--he broke some blood-vessel, I think Marcus told me, when
they were in England."

"Yes, sir--so Lady Annaly told me--it was in over-exerting himself to
extinguish a fire."

"A very fine spirited fellow he is, no doubt," said Sir Ulick; "but, after
all, that was rather a foolish thing, in his state of health. By-the-by, as
your guardian, it is my duty to explain the circumstances of this family--
in case you should hereafter _have any serious thoughts_; as you say, you
should know what comforted Marcus in his disappointment there. There is,
then, some confounded flaw in that old father's will, through which the
great Herbert estate slips to an heir-at-law, who has started up within
this twelvemonth. Miss Annaly, who was to have been a nonpareil of an
heiress in case of the brother's death, will have but a moderate fortune;
and the poor dowager will be but scantily provided for, after all the
magnificence which she has been used to, unless he lives to make up
something handsome for them. I don't know the particulars, but I know that
a vast deal depends on his living till he has levied certain fines, which
he ought to have levied, instead of amusing himself putting out other
people's fires. But I am excessively anxious about it, and now on your
account as well as theirs; for it would make a great difference to you, if
you seriously have any _thoughts_ of Miss Annaly."

Ormond declared this could make no difference to him, since his own fortune
would be sufficient for all the wishes of such a woman as he supposed Miss
Annaly to be. The next day Marcus O'Shane arrived from England. This was
the first time that Ormond and he had met since the affair of Moriarty, and
the banishment from Castle Hermitage. The meeting was awkward enough,
notwithstanding Sir Ulick's attempts to make it otherwise: Marcus laboured
under the double consciousness of having deserted Harry in past adversity,
and of being jealous of his present prosperity. Ormond at first went
forward to meet him more than half way with great cordiality, but the cold
politeness of Marcus chilled him; and the heartless congratulations, and
frequent allusions in the course of the first hour, to Ormond's new fortune
and consequence, offended our young hero's pride. He grew more reserved,
the more complimentary Marcus became, especially as in all his compliments
there was a mixture of _persiflage_, which Marcus supposed, erroneously,
that Ormond's untutored, unpractised ear would not perceive.

Harry sat silent, proudly indignant. He valued himself on being something,
and somebody, independently of his fortune--he had worked hard to become
so--he had the consciousness about him of tried integrity, resolution, and
virtue; and was it to be implied that he was _somebody_, only in
consequence of his having chanced to become heir to so many thousands a
year? Sir Ulick, whose address was equal to most occasions, was not able to
manage so as to make these young men like one another. Marcus had an old
jealousy of Harry's favour with his father, of his father's affection for
Harry: and at the present moment, he was conscious that his father was with
just cause much displeased with him. Of this Harry knew nothing, but Marcus
suspected that his father had told Ormond every thing, and this increased
the awkwardness and ill-humour that Marcus felt; and notwithstanding all
his knowledge of the world, and conventional politeness, he showed his
vexation in no very well-bred manner. He was now in particularly bad
humour, in consequence of a _scrape_, as he called it, which he had got
into, during his last winter in London, respecting an intrigue with a
married lady of rank. Marcus, by some intemperate expressions, had brought
on the discovery, of which, when it was too late, he repented. A public
trial was likely to be the consequence--the damages would doubtless be laid
at the least at ten thousand pounds. Marcus, however, counting, as sons
sometimes do in calculating their father's fortune, all the credit, and
knowing nothing of the debtor side of the account, conceived his father's
wealth to be inexhaustible. Lady O'Shane's large fortune had cleared off
all debts, and had set Sir Ulick up in a bank, which was in high credit;
then he had shares in a canal and in a silver mine--he held two lucrative
sinecure places--and had bought estates in three counties: but the son did
not know, that for the borrowed purchase-money of two of the estates Sir
Ulick was now paying high and accumulating interest; so that the prospect
of being called upon for ten thousand pounds was most alarming. In this
exigency Sir Ulick, who had long foreseen how the affair was likely to
terminate, had his eye upon his ward's ready money. It was for this he had
been at such peculiar pains to ingratiate himself with Ormond. Affection,
nevertheless, made him hesitate; he was unwilling to injure or to hazard
his property--very unwilling to prey upon his generosity--still more so
after the late handsome manner in which Ormond had hazarded his life in
defence of his guardian's honour.

Sir Ulick, who perceived the first evening that Marcus and Ormond met, that
the former was not going the way to assist these views, pointed out to him
how much it was for his interest to conciliate Ormond, and to establish
himself in his good opinion; but Marcus, though he saw and acknowledged
this, could not submit his pride and temper to the necessary restraint. For
a few hours he would display his hereditary talents, and all his acquired
graces; but the next hour his ill-humour would break out towards his
inferiors, his father's tenants and dependents, in a way which Ormond's
generous spirit could not bear. Before he went to England, even from his
boyish days, his manners had been habitually haughty and tyrannical to the
lower class of people. Ormond and he had always differed and often
quarrelled on this subject. Ormond hoped to find his manners altered in
this respect by his residence in a more polished country. But the external
polish he had acquired had not reached the mind: high-bred society had
taught him only to be polite to his equals; he was now still more disposed
to be insolent to his inferiors, especially to his Irish inferiors. He
affected to consider himself as more than half an Englishman; and returning
from London in all the distress and disgrace to which he had reduced
himself by criminal indulgence in the vices of fashionable, and what he
called _refined_, society, he vented his ill-humour on the poor Irish
peasants--the _natives_, as he termed them in derision. He spoke to them as
if they were slaves--he considered them as savages. Marcus had, early in
life, almost before he knew the real distinctions, or more than the names
of the different parties in Ireland, been a strong party man. He called
himself a government man; but he was one of those partisans, whom every
wise and good administration in Ireland has discountenanced and disclaimed.
He was, in short, one of those who make their politics an excuse to their
conscience for the indulgence of a violent temper.

Ormond was indignant at the inveterate prejudice that Marcus showed against
a poor man, whom he had injured, but who had never injured him. The moment
Marcus saw Moriarty Carroll again, and heard his name mentioned, he
exclaimed and reiterated, "That's a bad fellow--I know him of old--all
those Carrolls are rascals and rebels."

Marcus looked with a sort of disdainful spleen at the house which Ormond
had fitted up for Moriarty.

"So, you stick to this fellow still!--What a dupe, Ormond, this Moriarty
has made of you!" said Marcus; "but that's not my affair. I only wonder how
you wheedled my father out of the ground for the garden here."

"There was no wheedling in the case," said Ormond: "your father gave it
freely, or I should not have accepted it."

"You were very good to accept it, no doubt," said Marcus, in an ironical
tone: "I know I have asked my father for a garden to a cottage before now,
and have been refused."

Sir Ulick came up just as this was said, and, alarmed at the tone of voice,
used all his address to bring his son back to good temper; and he might
have succeeded, but that Peggy Carroll chanced to appear at that instant.

"Who is that?" cried Marcus--"Peggy Sheridan, as I live! is it not?"

"No, please your honour, but Peggy Sheridan that was--Peggy Carroll _that
is_," said Peggy, curtsying, with a slight blush, and an arch smile.

"So, you have married that Moriarty at last."

"I have, please your honour--he is a very honest boy--and I'm very happy--
if your honour's pleased."

"Who persuaded your father to this, pray, contrary to my advice?"

"Nobody at all, plase your honour," said Peggy, looking frightened.

"Why do you say that, Peggy," said Ormond, "when you know it was I who
persuaded your father to give his consent to your marriage with Moriarty?"

"You! Mr. Ormond!--Oh, I comprehend it all now," said Marcus, with his
sneering look and tone: "no doubt you had good reasons."

Poor Peggy blushed the deepest crimson.

"I understand it all now," said Marcus--"I understand you now, Harry."

Ormond's anger rose, and with a look of high disdain, he replied, "You
understand me, now! No, nor ever will, nor ever can. Our minds are
unintelligible to each other."

Then turning from him, Ormond walked away with indignant speed.

"Peggy, don't I see something like a cow yonder, _getting her bread_ at my
expense?" said Sir Ulick, directing Peggy's eye to a gap in the hedge by
the road-side. "Whose cow is that at the top of the ditch, half through my
hedge?"

"I can't say, please your honour," said Peggy, "if it wouldn't be Paddy
M'Grath's--Betty M'Gregor!" cried she, calling to a bare-footed girl,
"whose cow is yonder?"

"Oh, marcy! but if it isn't our own red rogue--and when I tied her legs
three times myself, the day!" said the girl, running to drive away the cow.

"Oh! she strays and trespasses strangely, the red cow, for want of the
little spot your honour promised her," said Peggy.

"Well, run and save my hedge from her now, my pretty Peggy, and I will find
the little spot for her to-morrow," said Sir Ulick.

Away ran Peggy after the cow--while lowering Marcus cursed them all three.
Pretty Peg he swore ought to be banished the estate--the cow ought to be
hamstrung instead of having _a spot_ promised her; "but this is the way,
sir, you ruin the country and the people," said he to his father.

"Be that as it may, I do not ruin myself as you do, Marcus," replied the
cool Sir Ulick. "Never mind the cow--nonsense! I am not thinking of a cow."

"Nor I neither, sir."

"Then follow Harry Ormond directly, and make him understand that he
misunderstood you," said Sir Ulick.

"Excuse me, sir--I cannot bend to him," said Marcus.

"And you expect that he will lend you ten thousand pounds at your utmost
need?"

"The money, with your estate, can be easily raised elsewhere, sir," said
Marcus.

"I tell you it cannot, sir," said the father.

"I cannot bend to Ormond, sir: to any body but him--any thing but that--my
pride cannot stoop to that."

"Your pride!--'pride that licks the dust,'" thought Sir Ulick. It was in
vain for the politic father to remonstrate with the headstrong son. The
whole train which Sir Ulick had laid with so much skill, was, he feared, at
the moment when his own delicate hand was just preparing to give the
effective touch, blown up by the rude impatience of his son. Sir Ulick,
however, never lost time or opportunity in vain regret for the past. Even
in the moment of disappointment, he looked to the future. He saw the danger
of keeping two young men together, who had such incompatible tempers and
characters. He was, therefore, glad when he met Ormond again, to hear him
propose his returning to Annaly, and he instantly acceded to the proposal.

"Castle Hermitage, I know, my dear boy, cannot be as pleasant to you just
now, as I could wish to make it: we have nobody here now, and Marcus is not
all I could wish him," said Sir Ulick, with a sigh. "He had always a
jealousy of my affection for you, Harry--it cannot be helped--we do not
choose our own children--but we must abide by them--you must perceive that
things are not going on quite rightly between my son and me."

"I am sorry for it, sir; especially as I am convinced I can do no good, and
therefore wish not to interfere."

"I believe you are right--though I part from you with regret."

"I shall be within your reach, sir, you know: whenever you wish for me, if
ever I can be of the least use to _you_, summon me, and I am at your
orders."

"Thank you! but stay one moment," said Sir Ulick, with a sudden look of
recollection: "you will be of age in a few days, Harry--we ought to settle
accounts, should not we?"

"Whenever you please, sir--no hurry on my part--but you have advanced me a
great deal of money lately--I ought to settle that."

"Oh, as to that--a mere trifle. If you are in no hurry, I am in none; for I
shall have business enough on my hands during these few days, before Lady
Norton fills the house again with company--I am certainly a little hurried
now."

"Then, sir, do not think of my business--I cannot be better off, you know,
than I am--I assure you I am sensible of that. Never mind the accounts--
only send for me whenever I can be of any use or pleasure to you. I need
not make speeches: I trust, my dear guardian--my father, when I was left
fatherless--I trust you believe I have some gratitude in me."

"I do," cried Sir Ulick, much moved; "and, by Heaven, it is impossible to--
I mean--in short, it is impossible not to love you, Harry Ormond."

       *       *       *       *       *



CHAPTER XXIII.

There are people who can go on very smoothly with those whose principles
and characters they despise and dislike. There are people who, provided
they live in _company_, are happy, and care but little of what the company
is composed. But our young hero certainly was not one of these contented
people. He was perhaps too much in the other extreme. He could not, without
overt words or looks of indignation, endure the presence of those whose
characters or principles he despised--he could not, even without manifest
symptoms of restlessness or ennui, submit long to live with mere
companions; he required to have friends; nor could he make a friend from
ordinary materials, however smooth the grain, or however fine the polish
they might take. Even when the gay world at Castle Hermitage was new to
him--amused and enchanted as he was at first with that brilliant society,
he could not have been content or happy without his friends at Vicar's
Dale, to whom, once at least in the four-and-twenty hours, he found it
necessary to open his heart. We may then judge how happy he now felt in
returning to Annaly: after the sort of moral constraint which he had
endured in the company of Marcus O'Shane, we may guess what an expansion of
heart took place.

The family union and domestic happiness which he saw at Annaly, certainly
struck him at this time more forcibly, from the contrast with what he had
just seen at Castle Hermitage. The effect of contrast, however, is but
transient. It is powerful as a dramatic resource, but in real life it is of
no permanent consequence. There was here a charm which operates with as
great certainty, and with a power secure of increasing instead of
diminishing from habit--the charm of _domestic politeness_, in the every
day manners of this mother, son, and daughter, towards each other, as well
as towards their guests. Ormond saw and felt it irresistibly. He saw the
most delicate attentions combined with entire sincerity, perfect ease, and
constant respect; the result of the early habits of good-breeding acting
upon the feelings of genuine affection. The external polish, which Ormond
now admired, was very different from that varnish which often is hastily
applied to hide imperfections. This polish was of the substance itself, to
be obtained only by long use; but, once acquired, lasting for ever: not
only beautiful, but serviceable, preserving from the injuries of time and
from the dangers of familiarity.

What influence the sister's charms might have to increase Ormond's
admiration of the brother, we shall not presume to determine; but certainly
he liked Sir Herbert Annaly better than any young man he had ever seen. Sir
Herbert was some years older than Ormond; he was in his twenty-seventh
year: but at this age he had done more good in life than many men
accomplish during their whole existence. Sir Herbert's principal estates
were in another part of Ireland. Dr. Cambray had visited them. The account
he gave Ormond of what had been done there, to improve the people and to
make them happy; of the prosperous state of the peasantry; their industry
and independence; their grateful, not servile, attachment to Sir Herbert
Annaly and his mother; the veneration in which the name of Annaly was held;
all delighted the enthusiastic Ormond.

The name of Annaly was growing wonderfully dear to him; and, all of a
sudden, the interest he felt in the details of a country gentleman's life
was amazingly increased. At times, when the ladies were engaged, he
accompanied Sir Herbert in visiting his estate. Sir Herbert had never till
lately resided at Annaly, which had, within but a short time, reverted to
his possession, in consequence of the death of the person to whom it had
been let. He found much that wanted improvement in the land, and more in
the people.

This estate stretched along the sea-shore: the tenants whom he found living
near the coast were an idle, profligate, desperate set of people; who,
during the time of the late middle landlord, had been in the habit of
_making their rents_ by nefarious practices. The best of the set were
merely idle fishermen, whose habits of trusting to their _luck_
incapacitated them from industry: the others were illicit distillers--
smugglers--and miscreants who lived by _waifs_ and _strays_; in fact, by
the pillage of vessels on the coast. The coast was dangerous--there
happened frequent shipwrecks; owing partly, as was supposed, to the false
lights hung out by these people, whose interest it was that vessels should
be wrecked. Shocked at these practices, Sir Herbert Annaly had, from the
moment he came into possession of the estate, exerted himself to put a stop
to them, and to punish, where he could not reform the offenders. The people
at first pleaded a sort of _tenant's right_, which they thought a landlord
could scarcely resist. They protested that they could not make _the rent_,
if they were not allowed to make it in their own way; and showed, beyond a
doubt, that Sir Herbert could not get half as much rent for his land in
those parts, if he looked too scrupulously into the means by which it was
made. They brought, in corroboration of their arguments or assertions, the
example and constant practice of "many as good a jantleman as any in
Ireland, who had his rent made up for him that ways, very ready and
punctual. There was his honour, Mr. Such-a-one, and so on; and there was
Sir Ulick O'Shane, sure! Oh! he was the man to live under--he was the man
that knew when to wink and when to blink; and if he shut his eyes
_properly_, sure his tenants filled his fist. Oh! Sir Ulick was the great
man for _favour and purtection_, none like him at all!--He is the good
landlord, that will fight the way clear for his own tenants through thick
and thin--none dare touch them. Oh! Sir Ulick's the kind jantleman that
understands the law for the poor, and could bring them off at every turn,
and show them the way through the holes in an act of parliament, asy as
through a _riddle_!

"Oh, and if he could but afford to be half as good as his promises, Sir
Ulick O'Shane would be too good entirely!"

Now Sir Ulick O'Shane had purchased a tract of ground adjoining to Sir
Herbert's, on this coast; and he had bought it on the speculation that he
could let it at a very high rent to these people, of whose _ways and means_
of paying it he chose to remain in ignorance. All the tenants whom Sir
Herbert _banished_ from his estate flocked to Sir Ulick's.

By the sacrifice of his own immediate interest, and by great personal
exertion, strict justice, and a generous and well secured system of reward,
Sir Herbert already had produced a considerable change for the better in
the morals and habits of the people. He was employing some of his tenants
on the coast, in building a lighthouse, for which he had a grant from
parliament; and he was endeavouring to establish a manufacture of
sail-cloth, for which there was sufficient demand. But almost at every step
of his progress, he was impeded by the effects of the bad example of his
neighbours on Sir Ulick's estate; and by the continual quarrels between the
idle, discarded tenants, and their industrious and now prosperous
successors.

Whenever a vessel in distress was seen off the coast, there was a constant
struggle between the two parties who had opposite interests; the one to
save, the other to destroy. In this state of things, causes of complaint
perpetually occurred; and Ormond who was present, when the accusers and the
accused appealed to their landlord, sometimes as lord of the manor,
sometimes as magistrate, had frequent opportunities of seeing both Sir
Herbert's principles and temper put to the test. He liked to compare the
different modes in which King Corny, his guardian, and Sir Herbert Annaly
managed these things. Sir Herbert governed neither by threats, punishments,
abuse, nor tyranny; nor yet did he govern by promises nor bribery, _favour_
and _protection_, like Sir Ulick. He neither cajoled nor bullied--neither
held it as a principle, as Marcus did, that the people must be kept down,
or that the people must be deceived. He treated them neither as slaves,
subject to his will; nor as dupes, or objects on which to exercise his wit
or his cunning. He treated them as reasonable beings, and as his fellow-
creatures, whom he wished to improve, that he might make them and himself
happy. He spoke sense to them; and he mixed that sense with wit and humour,
in the proportion necessary to make it palatable to an Irishman.

In generosity there was a resemblance between the temper of Sir Herbert and
of Corny; but to Ormond's surprise, and at first to his disappointment, Sir
Herbert valued justice more than generosity. Ormond's heart on this point
was often with King Corny, when his head was forced to be with Sir Herbert;
but, by degrees, head and heart came together. He became practically
convinced that justice is the virtue that works best for a constancy, and
best serves every body's interest in time and in turn. Ormond now often
said to himself, "Sir Herbert Annaly is but a few years older than I am; by
the time I am of his age, why should not I become as useful, and make as
many human beings happy as he does?" In the meantime, the idea of marrying
and settling in Ireland became every day more agreeable to Ormond; and
France and Italy, which he had been so eager to visit, faded from his
imagination. Sir Herbert and Lady Annaly, who had understood from Dr.
Cambray that Ormond was going to commence his grand tour immediately, and
who heard him make a number of preparatory inquiries when he had been first
at Annaly, naturally turned the conversation often to the subject. They had
looked out maps and prints, and they had taken down from their shelves the
different books of travels, which might be most useful to him, with guides,
and post-road books, and all that could speed the parting guest. But the
guest had no mind to part--every thing, every body at Annaly, he found so
agreeable and so excellent.

It must be a great satisfaction to a young man who has a grain of sense,
and who feels that he is falling inevitably and desperately in love, to see
that all the lady's family, as well as the object of his passion, are
exactly the people whom he should wish of all others to make his friends
for life. Here was every thing that could be desired, suitability of age,
of fortune, of character, of temper, of tastes--every thing that could make
a marriage happy, could Ormond but win the heart of Florence Annaly. Was
that heart disengaged?--He resolved to inquire first from his dear friend,
Dr. Cambray, who was much in the confidence of this family, a great
favourite with Florence, and consequently dearer than ever to Ormond. He
went directly to Vicar's Dale to see and consult him, and Ormond thought he
was confiding a profound secret to the doctor, when first he spoke to him
of his passion for Miss Annaly; but to his surprise, the doctor told him he
had seen it long ago, and his wife and daughters had all discovered it,
even when they were first with him at Annaly.

"Is it possible?--and what do you all think?"

"We think that you would be a perfectly happy man, if you could win Miss
Annaly; and we wish you success most sincerely. But--"

"_But_--Oh, my dear doctor, you alarm me beyond measure."

"What! by wishing you success?"

"No, but by something in your look and manner, and by that terrible _but_:
you think that I shall never succeed--you think that her heart is engaged.
If that be the case, tell me so at once, and I will set off for France
to-morrow."

"My good sir, you are always for desperate measures--you are in too great
a hurry to come to a conclusion, before you have the means of forming a
just conclusion. Remember, I tell you, this precipitate temper will some
time or other bring some great evil upon you."

"I will be patient all my life afterwards, if you will only this instant
tell me whether she is engaged."

"I do not know whether Miss Annaly's heart be disengaged or not--I can tell
you only that she has had a number of brilliant offers, and that she has
refused them all."

"That proves that she had not found one amongst them that She liked," said
Ormond.

"Or that she liked some one better than all those whom she refused," said
Dr. Cambray.

"That is true--that is possible--that is a dreadful possibility," said
Ormond. "But do you think there is any probability of that?"

"There is, I am sorry to tell you, my dear Ormond, a probability against
you--but I can only state the facts in general. I can form no opinion, for
I have had no opportunity of judging--I have never seen the two young
people together. But there is a gentleman of great merit, of suitable
family and fortune, who is deeply in love with Miss Annaly, and who I
presume has not been refused, for I understand he is soon to be here."

"To be here!" cried Ormond: "a man of great merit!--I hope he is not an
agreeable man."

"That's a vain hope," said Dr. Cambray; "he is a very agreeable man."

"_Very_ agreeable!--What sort of person--grave or gay?--Like any body that
I ever saw?"

"Yes, like a person that you have seen, and a person for whom I believe you
have a regard--like his own father, your dear King Corny's friend, General
Albemarle."

"How extraordinary!--how unlucky!" said Ormond. "I would rather my rival
were any one else than the son of a man I am obliged to; and a most
dangerous rival he must be, if he have his father's merit, and his father's
manners. Oh! my dear Dr. Cambray, I am sure she likes him--and yet she
could not be so cheerful in his absence, if she were much in love--I defy
her; and it is impossible that he can be as much in love with her as I am,
else nothing could keep him from her."

"Nothing but his duty, I suppose you mean?"

"Duty!--What duty?"

"Why, there really are duties in this world to be performed, though a man
in love is apt to forget it. Colonel Albemarle, being an officer, cannot
quit his regiment till he has obtained leave of absence."

"I am heartily glad of it," cried Ormond--"I will make the best use of my
time before he comes. But, my dear doctor, do you think Lady Annaly--do you
think Sir Herbert wish it to be?"

"I really cannot tell:--I know only that he is a particular friend of Sir
Herbert, and that I have heard Lady Annaly speak of him as being a young
man of excellent character and high honour, for whom she has a great
regard."

Ormond sighed.

"Heaven forgive me that sigh!" said he: "I thought I never should be
brought so low as to sigh at bearing of any man's excellent character and
high honour: but I certainly wish Colonel Albemarle had never been born.
Heaven preserve me from envy and jealousy!"

Our young hero had need to repeat this prayer the next morning at
breakfast, when Sir Herbert, on opening his letters, exclaimed, "My friend,
Colonel Albemarle--"

And Lady Annaly, in a tone of joy, "Colonel Albemarle!--I hope he will soon
be here."

Sir Herbert proceeded: "Cannot obtain leave of absence yet--but lives _in
hopes_," said Sir Herbert, reading the letter, and handing it to his
mother.

Ormond did not dare, did not think it honourable, to make use of his eyes,
though there now might have been a decisive moment for observation. No
sound reached his ear from Miss Annaly's voice; but Lady Annaly spoke
freely and decidedly in praise of Colonel Albemarle. As she read the
letter, Sir Herbert, after asking Ormond three times whether he was not
acquainted with General Albemarle, obtained for answer, that he "really did
not know." In truth, Ormond did not know any thing at that moment. Sir
Herbert, surprised, and imagining that Ormond had not yet heard him, was
going to repeat his question--but a look from his mother stopped him. A
sudden light struck Lady Annaly. Mothers are remarkably quick-sighted upon
these occasions. There was a silence of a few minutes, which appeared to
poor Ormond to be a silence that would never be broken; it was broken by
some slight observation which the brother and sister made to each other
upon a paragraph in the newspaper, which they were reading together. Ormond
took breath.

"She cannot love him, or she could not be thinking of a paragraph in the
newspaper at this moment."

From this time forward Ormond was in a continual state of agitation,
reasoning, as the passions reason, as ill as possible, upon even the
slightest circumstances that occurred, from whence he might draw favourable
or unfavourable omens. He was resolved--and that was prudent--not to speak
of his own sentiments, till he was clear how matters stood about Colonel
Albemarle: he was determined not to expose himself to the useless
mortification of a refusal. While in this agony of uncertainty, he went out
one morning to take a solitary walk, that he might reflect at leisure. Just
as he was turning from the avenue to the path that led to the wood, a car
full of morning visitors appeared. Ormond endeavoured to avoid them, but
not before he had been seen. A servant rode after him to beg to know "if he
were Mr. Harry Ormond--if he were, one of the ladies on the car, Mrs.
M'Crule, sent her compliments to him, and requested he would be so good as
to let her speak with him at the house, as she had a few words of
consequence to say."

"Mrs. M'Crule!" Ormond did not immediately recollect that he had the honour
of knowing any such person, till the servant said, "Miss Black, sir, that
was--formerly at Castle Hermitage."

His old enemy, Miss Black, he recollected well. He obeyed the lady's
summons, and returned to the house.

Mrs. M'Crule had not altered in disposition, though her objects had been
changed by marriage. Having no longer Lady O'Shane's quarrels with her
husband to talk about, she had become the pest of the village of Castle
Hermitage and of the neighbourhood--the Lady Bluemantle of the parish. Had
Miss Black remained in England, married or single, she would only have been
one of a numerous species too well known to need any description; but
transplanted to a new soil and a new situation, she proved to be a variety
of the old species, with peculiarly noxious qualities, which it may be
useful to describe, as a warning to the unwary. It is unknown how much
mischief the Lady Bluemantle class may do in Ireland, where parties in
religion and politics run high; and where it often happens, that
individuals of the different sects and parties actually hate without
knowing each other, watch without mixing with one another, and consequently
are prone reciprocally to believe any stories or reports, however false or
absurd, which tend to gratify their antipathies. In this situation it is
scarcely possible to get the exact truth as to the words, actions, and
intentions, of the nearest neighbours, who happen to be of opposite parties
or persuasions. What a fine field is here for a mischief-maker! Mrs.
M'Crule had in her parish done her part; she had gone from rich to poor,
from poor to rich, from catholic to protestant, from churchman to
dissenter, and from dissenter to methodist, reporting every idle story, and
repeating every ill-natured thing that she heard said--things often more
bitterly expressed than thought, and always exaggerated or distorted in the
repetition. No two people in the parish could have continued on speaking
terms at the end of the year, but that, happily, there were in this parish
both a good clergyman and a good priest; and still more happily, they both
agreed in labouring for the good of their parishioners. Dr. Cambray and Mr.
M'Cormuck made it their business continually to follow after Mrs. M'Crule,
healing the wounds which she inflicted, and pouring into the festering
heart the balm of Christian charity: they were beloved and revered by their
parishioners; Mrs. M'Crule was soon detected, and universally avoided.
Enraged, she attacked, by turns, both the clergyman and the priest; and
when she could not separate them, she found out that it was very wrong that
they should agree. She discovered that she was a much better protestant,
and a much better Christian, than Dr. Cambray, because she hated her
catholic neighbours.

Dr. Cambray had taken pains to secure the co-operation of the catholic
clergyman, in all his attempts to improve the lower classes of the people.
His village school was open to catholics as well as protestants; and
Father M'Cormuck, having been assured that their religion would not be
tampered with, allowed and encouraged his flock to send their children to
the same seminary.

Mrs. M'Crule was, or affected to be, much alarmed and scandalized at seeing
catholic and protestant children mixing so much together; she knew that
opinions were divided among some families in the neighbourhood upon the
propriety of this _mixture_, and Mrs. M'Crule thought it a fine opportunity
of making herself of consequence, by stirring up the matter into a party
question. This bright idea had occurred to her just about the time that
Ormond brought over little Tommy from the Black Islands. During Ormond's
absence upon his tour, Sheelah and Moriarty had regularly sent the boy to
the village school; exhorting him to mind his _book_ and his _figures_,
that he might surprise Mr. Ormond with his _larning_ when he should come
back. Tommy, with this excitation, and being a quick, clever little fellow,
soon got to the head of his class, and kept there; and won all the
school-prizes, and carried them home in triumph to his grandame, and to his
dear Moriarty, to be treasured up, that he might show them to Mr. Ormond at
his return home. Dr. Cambray was pleased with the boy, and so was every
body, except Mrs. M'Crule. She often visited the school for the pleasure of
finding fault; and she _wondered_ to see this little Tommy, who was a
catholic, carrying away the prizes from all the others. She thought it her
duty to inquire farther about him; and as soon as she discovered that he
came from the Black Islands, that he lived with Moriarty, and that Mr.
Ormond was interested about him, she said she knew there was something
wrong--therefore, she set her face against the child, and against the
shameful partiality that _some people_ showed.

Dr. Cambray pursued his course without attending to her; and little Tommy
pursued his course, improving rapidly in his _larning_.

Now there was in that county an excellent charitable institution for the
education of children from seven to twelve years old; an apprentice fee was
given with the children when they left the school, and they had several
other advantages, which made parents of the lower classes extremely
desirous to get their sons into this establishment.

Before they could be admitted, it was necessary that they should have a
certificate from their parish minister and catholic clergyman, stating that
they could read and write, and that they were well-behaved children. On a
certain day, every year, a number of candidates were presented. The
certificates from the clergyman and priest of their respective parishes
were much attended to by the lady patronesses, and by these the choice of
the candidate to be admitted was usually decided. Little Tommy had an
excellent certificate both from Father M'Cormuck and from Dr. Cambray.
Sheelah and Moriarty were in great joy, and had "all the hopes in life" for
him; and Sheelah, who was very fond of _surprises_, had cautioned Moriarty,
and begged the doctor not to tell Mr. Harry a word about it, _till all was
fixed_, "for if the boy should not have the luck to be chose at last, it
would only be breaking his little heart the worse, that Mr. Harry should
know any thing at all about it, sure."

Meantime, Mrs. M'Crule was working against little Tommy with all her might.

Some of the lady patronesses were of opinion, that it would be expedient in
future, to confine their bounty to the children of protestants only.

Mrs. M'Crule, who had been deputed by one of the absent ladies to act for
her, was amazingly busy, visiting all the patronesses, and talking, and
fearing, and "hoping to heaven!" and prophesying, canvassing, and
collecting opinions and votes, as for a matter of life and death. She
hinted that she knew that the greatest interest was making to get in this
year a catholic child, and there was no knowing, if this went on, what the
consequence might be. In short Ireland would be ruined, if little Tommy
should prove the successful candidate. Mrs. M'Crule did not find it
difficult to stir up the prejudices and passions of several ladies, whose
education and whose means of information might have secured them from such
contemptible influence.

Her present business at Annaly was to try what impression she could make on
Lady and Miss Annaly, who were both patronesses of the school. As to
Ormond, whom she never had liked, she was glad of this opportunity of
revenging herself upon his little protg; and of making Mr. Ormond
sensible, that she was now a person of rather more consequence than she had
been, when he used formerly to defy her at Castle Hermitage. She little
thought that, while she was thus pursuing the dictates of her own hate, she
might serve the interests of Ormond's love.

       *       *       *       *       *



CHAPTER XXIV.

When Ormond returned, in obedience to Mrs. M'Crule's summons, he found in
the room an unusual assemblage of persons--a party of morning visitors, the
unmuffled contents of the car. As he entered, he bowed as courteously as
possible to the whole circle, and advanced towards Mrs. M'Crule, whose
portentous visage he could not fail to recognize. That visage was nearly
half a yard long, thin out of all proportion, and dismal beyond all
imagination; the corners of the mouth drawn down, the whites or yellows of
the eyes upturned, while with hands outspread she was declaiming, and in a
lamentable tone deploring, as Ormond thought, some great public calamity;
for the concluding words were "The danger, my dear Lady Annaly--the danger,
my dear Miss Annaly--oh! the danger is imminent. We shall all be positively
undone, ma'am; and Ireland--oh! I wish I was once safe in England again--
Ireland positively will be ruined!"

Ormond, looking to Lady Annaly and Miss Annaly for explanation, was
somewhat re-assured in this imminent danger, by seeing that Lady Annaly's
countenance was perfectly tranquil, and that a slight smile played on the
lips of Florence.

"Mr. Ormond," said Lady Annaly, "I am sorry to hear that Ireland is in
danger of being ruined by your means."

"By my means!" said Ormond, in great surprise; "I beg your ladyship's
pardon for repeating your words, but I really cannot understand them."

"Nor I neither; but by the time you have lived as long as I have in the
world," said Lady Annaly, "you will not be so much surprised as you now
seem, my good sir, at hearing people say what you do not understand. I am
told that Ireland will be undone by means of a _protg_ of yours, of the
name of Tommy Dun--not Dun Scotus."

"Dunshaughlin, perhaps," said Ormond, laughing, "Tommy Dunshaughlin! _that_
little urchin! What harm can little Tommy do to Ireland, or to any mortal?"

Without condescending to turn her eyes upon Ormond, whose propensity to
laughter had of old been offensive to her nature, Mrs. M'Crule continued to
Lady Annaly, "It is not of this insignificant child as an individual that I
am speaking, Lady Annaly; but your ladyship, who has lived so long in the
world, must know that there is no person or thing, however insignificant,
that cannot, in the hands of a certain description of people, be made an
engine of mischief."

"Very true, indeed," said Lady Annaly.

"And there is no telling or conceiving," pursued Mrs. M'Crule, "how in the
hands of a certain party, you know, ma'am, any thing now, even the
leas and the most innocent child (not that I take upon me to say that this
child is so very innocent, though, to be sure, he is very little)--but
innocent or not, there is positively nothing, Lady Annaly, ma'am, which a
certain party, certain evil-disposed persons, cannot turn to their
purposes."

"I cannot contradict that--I wish I could," said Lady Annaly.

"But I see your ladyship and Miss Annaly do not consider this matter as
seriously as I could wish. 'Tis an infatuation," said Mrs. M'Crule,
uttering a sigh, almost a groan, for her ladyship's and her daughter's
infatuation. "But if people, ladies especially, knew but half as much as I
have learnt, since I married Mr. M'Crule, of the real state of Ireland; or
if they had but half a quarter as many means as I have of obtaining
information, Mr. M'Crule being one of his majesty's very active justices of
the peace, riding about, and up and down, ma'am, scouring the country, sir,
you know, and having informers, high and low, bringing us every sort of
intelligence; I say, my dear Lady Annaly, ma'am, you would, if you only
heard a hundredth part of what I hear daily, tremble--your ladyship would
tremble from morning till night."

"Then I am heartily glad I do not hear it; for I should dislike very much
to tremble from morning till night, especially as my trembling could do
nobody any good."

"But, Lady Annaly, ma'am, you _can_ do good by exerting yourself to prevent
the danger in this emergency; you _can_ do good, and it becomes your
station and your character; you _can_ do good, my dear Lady Annaly, ma'am,
to thousands in existence, and thousands yet unborn."

"My benevolence having but a limited appetite for thousands," said Lady
Annaly, "I should rather, if it be equal to you, Mrs. M'Crule, begin with
the thousands already in existence; and of those thousands, why not begin
with little Tommy?"

"It is no use!" cried Mrs. M'Crule, rising from her seat in the indignation
of disappointed zeal: "Jenny, pull the bell for the car--Mrs. M'Greggor, if
you've no objection, I'm at your service, for 'tis no use I see for me to
speak here--nor should I have done so, but that I positively thought it my
duty; and also a becoming attention to your ladyship and Miss Annaly, as
lady patronesses, to let you know beforehand _our_ sentiments, as I have
collected the opinions of so many of the leading ladies, and apprehended
your ladyship might, before it came to a public push, like to have an
inkling or inuendo of how matters are likely to be carried at the general
meeting of the patronesses on Saturday next, when we are determined to put
it to the vote and poll. Jenny, do you see Jack, and the car? Good morning
to your ladyship; good day, Miss Annaly."

Ormond put in a detainer: "I am here in obedience to your summons, Mrs.
M'Crule--you sent to inform me that you had a few words of consequence to
say to me."

"True, sir, I did wrap myself up this winter morning, and came out, as Mrs.
M'Greggor can testify, in spite of my poor face, in hopes of doing some
little good, and giving a friendly hint, before an explosion should
publicly take place. But you will excuse me, since I find I gain so little
credit, and so waste my breath; I can only leave gentlemen and ladies in
this emergency, if they will be blind to the danger at this crisis, to
follow their own opinions."

Ormond still remonstrating on the cruelty of leaving him in utter darkness,
and calling it blindness, and assuring Mrs. M'Crule that he had not the
slightest conception of what the danger or the emergency to which she
alluded might be, or what little Tommy could have to do with it, the lady
condescended, in compliance with Mrs. M'Greggor's twitch behind, to stay
and recommence her statement. He could not forbear smiling, even more than
Lady Annaly had done, when he was made to understand that the _emergency_
and _crisis_ meant nothing but this child's being admitted or not admitted
into a charity school. While Ormond was incapable of speaking in reply with
becoming seriousness, Florence, who saw his condition, had the kindness to
draw off Mrs. M'Crule's attention, by asking her to partake of some
excellent goose-pie, which just then made its entrance. This promised, for
a time, to suspend the discussion, and to unite all parties in one common
sympathy. When Florence saw that the _consomm_, to which she delicately
helped her, was not thrown away upon Mrs. M'Crule, and that the union of
goose and turkey in this Christmas dainty was much admired by this good
lady, she attempted playfully to pass to a reflection on the happy effect
that might to some tastes result from unions in party matters.

But no--"too serious matters these to be jested with," even with a glass of
Barsac at the lips. Mrs. M'Crule stopped to say so, and to sigh. Per favour
of the Barsac, however, Florence ventured to try what a little raillery
might do. It was possible, that, if Mrs. M'Greggor and the chorus of young
ladies could be made to laugh, Mrs. M'Crule might be brought to see the
whole thing in a less gloomy point of view; and might perhaps be, just in
time, made sensible of the ridicule to which she would expose herself, by
persisting in sounding so pompously a false alarm.

"But can there really be so much danger," said Florence, "in letting little
children, protestant and catholic, come together to the same school--sit on
the same bench--learn the same alphabet from the same hornbook?"

"Oh, my dear Miss Annaly," cried Mrs. M'Crule, "I do wonder to hear you
treat this matter so lightly--you, from whom I confess I did expect better
principles: 'sit on the same bench!' easily said; but, my dear young lady,
you do not consider that some errors of popery,--since there is no catholic
in the room, I suppose I may say it,--the errors of popery are wonderfully
infectious."

"I remember," said Lady Annaly, "when I was a child, being present once,
when an _honest man_, that is, a protestant (for in those days no man but a
protestant could be called an _honest man_), came to my uncle in a great
passion to complain of the priest: 'My lord,' said he, 'what do you think
the priest is going to do? he is going to bury a catholic corpse, not only
in the churchyard, but, my lord, near to the grave of my father, who died a
stanch dissenter.' 'My dear sir,' said my uncle, to the angry _honest man_,
'the clergyman of the parish is using me worse still, for he is going to
bury a man, who died last Wednesday of the small-pox, near to my
grandmother, who never had the small-pox in her life.'"

Mrs. M'Crule pursed up her mouth very close at this story. She thought Lady
Annaly and her uncle were equally wicked, but she did not choose exactly to
say so, as her ladyship's uncle was a person of rank, and of character too
solidly established for Mrs. M'Crule to shake. She therefore only gave one
of her sighs for the sins of the whole generation, and after a recording
look at Mrs. M'Greggor, she returned to the charge about the schools and
the children.

"It can do no possible good," she said, "to admit catholic children to
_our_ schools, because, do what you will, you can never make them good
protestants."

"Well," said Lady Annaly, "as my friend, the excellent Bishop of ---- said
in parliament, 'if you cannot make them good protestants, make them good
catholics, make them good any-things.'"

Giving up Lady Annaly all together, Mrs. M'Crule now desired to have Mr.
Ormond's ultimatum--she wished to know whether he had made up his mind as
to the affair in question; but she begged leave to observe, "that since the
child had, to use the gentlest expression, the _misfortune_ to be born and
bred a catholic, it would be most prudent and gentlemanlike in Mr. Ormond
not to make him a bone of contention, but to withdraw the poor child from
the contest altogether, and strike his name out of the list of candidates,
till the general question of admittance to those of his persuasion should
have been decided by the lady patronesses."

Ormond declared, with or without submission to Mrs. M'Crule, that he could
not think it becoming or gentlemanlike to desert a child whom he had
undertaken to befriend--that, whatever the child had the misfortune to be
born, he would abide by him; and would not add to his misfortunes by
depriving him of the reward of his own industry and application, and of the
only chance he had of continuing his good education, and of getting forward
in life.

Mrs. M'Crule sighed and groaned.

But Ormond persisted: "The child," he said, "should have fair play--the
lady patronesses would decide as they thought proper."

It had been said that the boy had Dr. Cambray's certificate, which Ormond
was certain would not have been given undeservedly; he had also the
certificate of his own priest.

"Oh! what signifies the certificate of his priest," interrupted Mrs.
M'Crule; "and as for Dr. Cambray's, though he is a most respectable man
(too liberal, perhaps), yet without meaning to insinuate any thing
derogatory--but we all know how things are managed, and Dr. Cambray's great
regard for Mr. Ormond might naturally influence him a little in favour of
this little protg."

Florence was very busy in replenishing Mrs. M'Greggor's plate, and Ormond
haughtily told Mrs. M'Crule, "that as to Dr. Cambray's character for
impartiality, he should leave that securely to speak for itself; and that
as to the rest, she was at liberty to say or hint whatever she pleased, as
far as he was concerned; but that, for her own sake, he would recommend it
to her to be sure of her facts--for that slander was apt to hurt in the
recoil."

Alarmed by the tone of confident innocence and determination with which
Ormond spoke, Mrs. M'Crule, who like all other bullies was a coward,
lowered her voice, and protested she meant nothing--"certainly no offence
to Mr. Ormond; and as to slander there was nothing she detested so much--
she was quite glad to be set right--for people did talk--and she had
endeavoured to silence them, and now could from the best authority."

Ormond looked as if he wished that any authority could silence her--but no
hopes of that. "She was sorry to find, however, that Mr. Ormond was
positively determined to encourage the boy, whoever he was, to persist as
candidate on this occasion, because she should be concerned to do any
thing that looked like opposing him; yet she must, and she knew others were
determined, and in short, he would be mortified to no purpose."

"Well," Ormond said, "he could only do his best, and bear to be mortified,
if necessary, or when necessary."

A smile of approbation from Florence made his heart beat, and for some
moments Mrs. M'Crule spoke without his knowing one syllable she said.

Mrs. M'Crule saw the smile, and perceived the effect. As she rose to
depart, she turned to Miss Annaly, and whispered, but loud enough for all
to hear, "Miss Annaly must excuse me if I warn her, that if she takes the
part I am inclined to fear she will on Saturday, people I know _will_ draw
inferences."

Florence coloured, but with calm dignity and spirit, which Mrs. M'Crule did
not expect from her usual gentleness and softness of manners, she replied,
that "no inference which might be drawn from her conduct by any persons
should prevent her from acting as she thought right, and taking that part
which she believed to be just."

So ended the visit, or the visitation. The next day Lady Annaly, Miss
Annaly, Sir Herbert, and Ormond, went to Vicar's Dale, and thence with the
good doctor to the village school, on purpose that they might see and form
an impartial judgment of the little boy. On one day in the week, the
parents and friends of the children were admitted if they chose it, to the
school-room, to hear the lessons, and to witness the adjudging of the
week's premiums. This was _prize day_ as they called it, and Sheelah and
Moriarty were among the spectators. Their presence, and the presence of Mr.
Ormond, so excited--so over-excited Tommy, that when he first stood up to
read, his face flushed, his voice faltered, his little hands trembled so
much that he could hardly hold the book; he could by no means turn over the
leaf, and he was upon the point of disgracing himself by bursting into
tears.

"Oh! ho!" cried an ill-natured voice of triumph from one of the spectators.
Ormond and the Annalys turned, and saw behind them Mrs. M'Crule.

"Murder!" whispered Sheelah to Moriarty, "if she fixes him with that _evil
eye_, and he gets the stroke of it, Moriarty, 'tis all over with him for
life."

"Tut, woman, dear--what can hurt him? is not the good doctor in person
standing betwixt him and harm? and see! he is recovering upon it fast--
quite come to!--Hark!--he is himself again--Tommy, voice and all!--success
to him!"

He had success, and he deserved it--the prizes were his; and when they were
given to him, the congratulating smiles of his companions showed that Dr.
Cambray's justice was unimpeached by those whom it most concerned; that
notwithstanding all that had been said and done directly and indirectly, to
counteract his benevolent efforts, he had succeeded in preventing envy and
party-spirit from spreading discord among these innocent children.

Mrs. M'Crule withdrew, and nobody saw when or how.

"It is clear," said Lady Annaly, "that this boy is no favourite, for he has
friends."

"Or, if he be a favourite, and have friends, it is a proof that he has
extraordinary merit," said Sir Herbert.

"He is coming to us," said Florence, who had been excessively interested
for the child, and whose eyes had followed him wherever he went: "Brother,"
whispered she, "will you let him pass you? he wants to say something to Mr.
Ormond."

The boy brought to Ormond all the prizes which he had won since the time he
first came to school: his grandame, Sheelah, had kept them safe in a little
basket, which he now put into Ormond's hands, with honest pride and
pleasure.

"I got 'em, and Granny said you'd like to see them, so she did--and here's
what will please you--see my certificates--see, signed by the doctor
himself's own hand, and Father M'Cormuck, that's his name, with his
blessing by the same token he gave me."

Ormond looked with great satisfaction on Tommy's treasures, and Miss Annaly
looked at them too with no small delight.

"Well, my boy, have you any thing more to say?" said Ormond to the child,
who looked as if he was anxious to say something more.

"I have, sir; it's what I'd be glad to speak a word with you, Mr. Harry."

"Speak it then--you are not afraid of this lady?" "Oh, no--that I am not,"
said the boy, with a very expressive smile and emphasis.

But as the child seemed to wish that no one else should hear, Ormond
retired a step or two with him behind the crowd. Tommy would not let go
Miss Annaly's hand, so she heard all that passed.

"I am afeard I am too troublesome to you, sir," said the boy.

"To me--not the least," said Ormond: "speak on--say all you have in your
mind."

"Why, then," said the child, "I _have_ something greatly on my mind,
because I heard Granny talking to Moriarty about it last night, over the
fire, and I in the bed. Then I know all about Mrs. M'Crule, and how, if I
don't give out, and wouldn't give up about the grand school, on Saturday, I
should, may be, be bringing you, Mr. Harry, into great trouble: so that
being the case, I'll give up entirely--and I'll go back to the Black
Islands to-morrow," said Tommy, stoutly; yet swelling so in the chest that
he could not say another word. He turned away.

As they were walking home together from the school, Moriarty said to
Sheelah, "I'll engage, Sheelah, you did not see all that passed the day."

"I'll engage I did, though," said Sheelah.

"Why, then, Sheelah, you've quick eyes still."

"Oh! I'm not so blind but what I could see _that_ with half an eye--ay, and
saw how it was with them before you did, Moriarty. From the first minute
they comed into the room together, said I to myself, 'there's a pair of
angels well matched, if ever there was a pair on earth.' These things is
all laid out above, unknownst to us, from the first minute we are born,
_who_ we are to have in marriage," added Sheelah.

"No; not _fixed_ from the first minute we are born, Sheelah: it is _not_,"
said Moriarty.

"And how should you know, Moriarty," said Sheelah, "whether or not?"

"And why not as well as you, Sheelah, dear," replied Moriarty, "if you go
to that?"

"Well, in the name of fortune, have it your own way," said Sheelah; "and
how do you think it is then?"

"Why it is partly fixed for us," said Moriarty; "but the choice is still in
us, always--"

"Oh! burn me if I understand that," said Sheelah.

"Then you are mighty hard of understanding this morning, Sheelah. See, now,
with regard to Master Harry and Peggy Sheridan: it's my opinion, 'twas laid
out from the first, that in case he did not do _that_ wrong about Peggy--
_then_ see, Heaven had this lady, this angel, from that time forward in
view for him, by way of _compensation_ for not doing the wrong he might
have chose to do. Now, don't you think, Sheelah, that's the way it was?--be
a rasonable woman."

The rasonable woman was puzzled and silent, Sheelah and Moriarty having
got, without knowing it, to the dark depths of metaphysics. There was some
danger of their knocking their heads against each other there, as wiser
heads have done on similar occasions.

It was an auspicious circumstance for Ormond's love that Florence had now a
daily object of thought and feeling in common with him. Mrs. M'Crule's
having piqued Florence was in Ormond's favour: it awakened her pride, and
conquered her timidity; she ventured to trust her own motives. To be sure,
the interest she felt for this child was uncommonly vivid; but she might
safely avow this interest--it was in the cause of one who was innocent, and
who had been oppressed.

As Mrs. M'Crule was so vindictively busy, going about, daily, among the
lady patronesses, preparing for the great battle that was to be decided on
the famous Saturday, it was necessary that Lady and Miss Annaly should
exert themselves at least to make the truth known to their friends, to take
them to see Dr. Cambray's school, and to judge of the little candidate
impartially. The day for decision came, and Florence felt an anxiety, an
eagerness, which made her infinitely more amiable, and more interesting in
Ormond's eyes. The election was decided in favour of humanity and justice.
Florence was deputed to tell the decision to the successful little
candidate, who was waiting, with his companions, to hear his fate. Radiant
with benevolent pleasure, she went to announce the glad tidings.

"Oh! if she is not beautiful!" cried Sheelah, clasping her hands.

Ormond felt it so warmly, and his looks expressed his feelings so strongly,
that Florence, suddenly abashed, could scarcely finish her speech.

If Mrs. M'Crule had been present, she might again have cried "Oh! ho!" but
she had retreated, too much discomfited, by the disappointments of hatred,
to stay even to embarrass the progress of love. Love had made of late rapid
progress. Joining in the cause of justice and humanity, mixing with all the
virtues, he had taken possession of the heart happily, safely--
unconsciously at first, yet triumphantly at last. Where was Colonel
Albemarle all this time? Ormond neither knew nor cared; he thought but
little of him at this moment. However, said he to himself, Colonel
Albemarle will be here in a few days--it is better for me to see how things
are there, before I speak--I am sure Florence could not give me a decisive
answer, till her brother has disentangled that business for her. Lady
Annaly said as much to me the other day, if I understood her rightly--and I
am sure this is the state of the case, from the pains Florence takes now to
avoid giving me an opportunity of speaking to her alone, which I have been
watching for so anxiously. So reasoned Ormond; but his reasonings, whether
wise or foolish, were set at nought by unforeseen events.



CHAPTER XXV.

One evening Ormond walked with Sir Herbert Annaly to the sea-shore, to
look at the lighthouse which was building. He was struck with all that had
been done here in the course of a few months, and especially with the
alteration in the appearance of the people. Their countenances had changed
from the look of desponding idleness and cunning, to the air of busy,
hopeful independence. He could not help congratulating Sir Herbert, and
warmly expressing a wish that he might himself, in the whole course of his
life, do half as much good as Sir Herbert had already effected. "You will
do a great deal more," said Sir Herbert: "you will have a great deal more
time. I must make the best of the little--probably the very little time I
shall have: while I yet live, let me not live in vain."

"_Yet_ live," said Ormond; "I hope--I trust--you will live many years to be
happy, and to make others so: your strength seems quite re-established--you
have all the appearance of health."

Sir Herbert smiled, but shook his head.

"My dear Ormond, do not trust to outward appearances too much. Do not let
my friends entirely deceive themselves. I _know_ that my life cannot be
long--I wish, before I die, to do as much good as I can."

The manner in which these words were said, and the look with which they
were accompanied, impressed Ormond at once with a conviction of the danger,
fortitude, and magnanimity of the person who spoke to him. The hectic
colour, the brilliant eye, the vividness of fancy, the superiority of
intellectual powers, the warmth of the affections, and the amiable
gentleness of the disposition of this young man, were, alas! but so many
fatal indications of his disease. The energy with which, with decreasing
bodily and increasing mental strength, he pursued his daily occupations,
and performed more than every duty of his station, the never-failing temper
and spirits with which he sustained the hopes of many of his friends, were
but so many additional causes of alarm to the too experienced mother.
Florence, with less experience, and with a temper happily prone to hope,
was more easily deceived. She could not believe that a being, whom she saw
so full of life, could be immediately in danger of dying. Her brother had
now but a very slight cough--he had, to all appearance, recovered from the
accident by which they had been so much alarmed when they were in England.
The physicians had pronounced, that with care to avoid cold, and all
violent exertion, he might do well and last long.

To fulfil the conditions was difficult; especially that which required him
to refrain from any great exertion. Whenever he could be of service to his
friends, or could do any good to his fellow-creatures, he spared neither
mental nor bodily exertion. Under the influence of benevolent enthusiasm,
he continually forgot the precarious tenure by which he held his life.

It was now the middle of winter, and one stormy night a vessel was wrecked
on the coast near Annaly. The house was at such a distance from that part
of the shore where the vessel struck, that Sir Herbert knew nothing of it
till the next morning, when it was all over. No lives were lost. It was a
small trading vessel, richly laden. Knowing the vile habits of some of the
people who lived on the coast, Sir Herbert, the moment he heard that there
was a wreck, went down to see that the property of the sufferers was
protected from those depredators, who on such occasions were astonishingly
alert. Ormond accompanied him, and by their joint exertions much of the
property was placed in safety under a military guard. Some had been seized
and carried off before their arrival, but not by any of Sir Herbert's
tenants. It became pretty clear that _the neighbours_ on Sir Ulick
O'Shane's estate were the offenders. They had grown bold from impunity, and
from the belief that no _jantleman_ "would choose to interfere with them,
on account of their landlord."

Sir Herbert's indignation rose. Ormond pledged himself that Sir Ulick
O'Shane would never protect such wretches; and eager to assist public
justice, to defend his guardian, and, above all, to calm Sir Herbert and
prevent him from over-exerting himself, he insisted upon being allowed to
go in his stead with the party of military who were to search the suspected
houses. It was with some difficulty that he prevailed. He parted with Sir
Herbert; and, struck at the moment with his highly-raised colour, and the
violent heat and state of excitation he was in, Ormond again urged him to
remember his own health, and his mother and sister.

"I will--I do," said Sir Herbert; "but it is my duty to think of public
justice before I think of myself."

The apprehension Ormond felt in quitting Sir Herbert recurred frequently as
he rode on in silence; but he was called into action and it was dissipated.
Ormond spent nearly three hours searching a number of wretched cabins from
which the male inhabitants fled at the approach of the military, leaving
the women and children to make what excuses and tell what lies they could.
This the women and children executed with great readiness and ability, and
in the most pity-moving tones imaginable.

The inside of an Irish cabin appears very different to those who come to
claim hospitality and to those who come to detect offenders.

Ormond having never before entered a cabin with a search-warrant,
constable, or with the military, he was "not _up_ to the thing"--as both
the serjeant and constable remarked to each other. While he listened to the
piteous story of a woman about a husband who had broken his leg from a
ladder, _sarving_ the masons at Sir Herbert's lighthouse, and was _lying
at_ the hospital, _not expected_, [Footnote: _Not expected_ to live.] the
husband was lying all the time with both his legs safe and sound in a
potato furrow within a few yards of the house. And _the child_ of another
eloquent matron was running off with a pair of silver-mounted pistols taken
from the wreck, which he was instructed to hide in a bog-hole, snug--the
bog-water never rusting. In one hovel--for the houses of these wretches who
lived by pillage, after all their ill-gotten gains, were no better than
hovels--in one of them, in which, as the information stated, some valuable
plunder was concealed, they found nothing but a poor woman groaning in bed,
and two little children; one crying as if its heart would break, and the
other sitting up behind the mother's bolster supporting her. After the
soldiers had searched every place in vain, even the thatch of the house,
the woman showing no concern all the while, but groaning on, seeming scarce
able to answer Mr. Ormond's questions--the constable, an old hand, roughly
bid her get up, that they might search the bed; this Ormond would not
permit:--she lay still, thanking his honour faintly, and they quitted the
house. The goods which had been carried off were valuable, and were hid in
the straw of the very bed on which the woman was lying.


As they were returning homewards after their fruitless search, when they
had passed the boundary of Sir Ulick's and had reached Sir Herbert's
territory, they were overtaken by a man, who whispered something to the
serjeant which made him halt, and burst out a laughing; the laugh ran
through the whole serjeant's guard, and reached Ormond's ears; who, asking
the cause of it, was told how the woman had cheated them, and how she was
now risen from her bed, and was dividing the prize among the _lawful
owners_, "share and share alike." These lawful owners, all risen out of the
potato furrows, and returning from the bogs, were now assembled, holding
their bed of justice. At the moment the serjeant's information came off,
their captain, with a bottle of whiskey in his hand, was drinking, "To the
health of Sir Ulick O'Shane, our worthy landlord--seldom comes a better.
The same to his ward, Harry Ormond, Esq., and may his eyesight never be
better nor worse."

Harry Ormond instantly turned his horse's head, much provoked at having
been duped, and resolved that the plunderers should not now escape. By the
advice of serjeants and constables, he dismounted, that no sound of horses'
hoofs might give notice from a distance; though, indeed, on the sands of
the sea-shore, no horses' tread, he thought, could be heard. He looked
round for some one with whom he could leave his horse, but not a creature,
except the men who were with him, was in sight.

"What can have become of all the people?" said Ormond: "it is not the
workmen's dinner-hour, and they are gone from the work at the lighthouse;
and the horses and cars are left without any one with them." He went on a
few paces, and saw a boy who seemed to be left to watch the horses, and who
looked very melancholy. The boy did not speak as Ormond came up.
"What is the matter?" said Ormond: "something dreadful has happened--
speak!"

"Did not you hear it, sir?" said the boy: "I'd be loth to tell it you."

"Has any thing happened to--"

"Sir Herbert--ay--the worst that could. Running to stop one of them
villains that was making off with something from the wreck, he dropped
sudden as if he was shot, and--when they went to lift him up--But you'll
drop yourself, sir," said the boy.

"Give him some of the water out of the bucket, can't ye?"

"Here's my cap," said the serjeant. Ormond was made to swallow the water,
and, recovering his senses, heard one of the soldiers near him say, "'Twas
only a faint Sir Herbert took, I'll engage."

The thought was new life to Ormond: he started up, mounted his horse, and
galloped off--saw no creature on the road--found a crowd at the gate of the
avenue--the crowd opened to let him pass, many voices calling as he passed
to beg him to _send out word_. This gave him fresh hopes, since nothing
certain was known: he spurred on his horse; but when he reached the house,
as he was going to Sir Herbert's room he was met by Sir Herbert's own man,
O'Reilly. The moment he saw O'Reilly's face, he knew there was no hope--he
asked no question: the surgeon came out, and told him that in consequence
of having broke a blood-vessel, which bled internally, Sir Herbert had just
expired--his mother and sister were with him. Ormond retired--he begged the
servants would write to him at Dr. Cambray's--and he immediately went away.

Two days after he had a note from O'Reilly, written in haste, at a very
early hour in the morning, to say that he was just setting out with the
hearse to the family burial-place at Herbert--it having been thought best
that the funeral should not be in this neighbourhood, on account of the
poor people at Annaly being so exasperated against those who were thought
to be the immediate occasion of his death. Sir Herbert's last orders to
O'Reilly were to this effect--"to _take care_, and to have every thing done
as privately as possible."

No pomp of funeral was, indeed, necessary for such a person. The great may
need it--the good need it not: they are mourned in the heart, and they are
remembered without vain pageantry. If public sorrow can soothe private
grief--and surely in some measure it must--the family and friends of this
young man had this consolation; but they had another and a better.

It is the triumph of religion and of its ministers to be able to support
the human heart, when all other resources are of little avail. Time, it is
true, at length effaces the recollection of misfortune, and age deadens the
sense of sorrow. But that power to console is surely far superior in its
effect, more worthy of a rational and a social being, which operates--not
by contracting or benumbing our feelings and faculties, but by expanding
and ennobling them--inspiring us, not with stoic indifference to the pains
and pleasures of humanity, but with pious submission to the will of Heaven
--to the order and orderer of the universe.

       *       *       *       *       *



CHAPTER XXVI.

Though Sir Ulick O'Shane contrived to laugh on most occasions where other
people would have wept, and though he had pretty well _case-hardened_ his
heart, yet he was shocked by the first news of the death of Sir Herbert
Annaly. He knew the man must die, he said--so must we all, sooner or later
--but for the manner of his death, Sir Ulick could not help feeling a
secret pang. He felt conscious of having encouraged, or at least connived
at, the practices of those wretches who had roused the generous and just
indignation of Sir Herbert, and in pursuit of whom this fine young man had
fallen a sacrifice.

Not only the "still small voice," but the cry of the country, was against
Sir Ulick on this occasion. He saw that he must give up the offenders, and
show decidedly that he desired to have them punished. Decidedly, then, and
easily, as ever prince abandoned secretary or chancellor to save his own
popularity, quickly as ever grand seignior gave up grand vizier or chief
baker to appease the people, Sir Ulick gave up his "_honest rascals_," his
"_rare rapparees_," and even his "_wrecker royal_." Sir Ulick set his
magistrate, Mr. M'Crule, at work for once on the side both of justice and
law; warrants, committals, and constables, cleared the land. Many fled--a
few were seized, escorted ostentatiously by _a serjeant and twelve_ of Sir
Ulick's corps, and lodged in the county jail to stand their trial, bereft
of all _favour and purtection_, bon fide delivered up to justice.

A considerable tract of Sir Ulick's coast estate, in consequence of this,
remained untenanted. Some person in whom he could confide must be selected
to inhabit the fishing-lodge, and to take care of the cabins and land till
they should be relet. Sir Ulick pitched upon Moriarty Carroll for this
purpose, and promised him such liberal reward, that all Moriarty's friends
congratulated him upon his "great luck in getting the appointment, against
the man, too, that Mr. Marcus had proposed and favoured."

Marcus, who was jealous in the extreme of power, and who made every trifle
a matter of party competition, was vexed at the preference given against
_an honest man_ and a _friend_ of his own, in favour of Moriarty, a
catholic; a fellow he had always disliked, and a protege of Mr. Ormond.
Ormond, though obliged to Sir Ulick for this kindness to Moriarty, was too
intent on other things to think much about the matter. _When_ he should see
Florence Annaly again, seemed to him the only question in the universe of
great importance.

Just at this time arrived letters for Mr. Ormond, from Paris, from M. and
Mad. de Connal; very kind letters, with pressing invitations to him to pay
them a visit. M. de Connal informed him, "that the five hundred pounds,
King Corny's legacy, was ready waiting his orders. M. de Connal hoped to
put it into Mr. Ormond's hands in Paris in his own hotel, where he trusted
that Mr. Ormond would do him the pleasure of soon occupying the apartments
which were preparing for him." It did not clearly appear whether they had
or had not heard of his accession of fortune. Dora's letter was not from
_Dora_--it was from _Mad. de Connal_. It was on green paper, with a border
of Cupids and roses, and store of sentimental devices in the corners. The
turn of every phrase, the style, as far as Ormond could judge, was quite
French--aiming evidently at being perfectly Parisian. Yet it was a letter
so flattering to the vanity of man as might well incline him to excuse the
vanity of woman. "Besides," as Sir Ulick O'Shane observed, "after making
due deductions for French sentiment, there remains enough to satisfy an
honest English heart that the lady really desires to see you, Ormond; and
that now, in the midst of her Parisian prosperity, she has the grace to
wish to show kindness to her father's adopted son, and to the companion and
friend of her childhood." Sir Ulick was of opinion that Ormond could not do
better than accept the invitation. Ormond was surprised, for he well
recollected the manner in which his guardian had formerly, and not many
months ago, written and spoken of Connal as a coxcomb and something worse.

"That is true," said Sir Ulick; "but that was when I was angry about your
legacy, which was of great consequence to us then, though of none now--I
certainly did suspect the man of a design to cheat you; but it is clear
that I was wrong--I am ready candidly to acknowledge that I did him
injustice. Your money is at your order--and I have nothing to say, but to
beg M. de Connal ten thousand French pardons. Observe, I do not beg pardon
for calling him a coxcomb, for a coxcomb he certainly is."

"An insufferable coxcomb!" cried Ormond.

"But a coxcomb _in fashion_," said Sir Ulick; "and a coxcomb in fashion is
a useful connexion. He did not fable about Versailles--I have made
particular inquiries from our ambassador at Paris, and he writes me word
that Connal is often at court--_en bonne odeur_ at Versailles. The
ambassador says he meets the Connals every where in the first circles--how
they came there I don't know."

"I am glad to hear that, for Dora's sake," said Ormond.

"I always thought her a sweet, pretty little creature," said Sir Ulick,
"and no doubt she has been polished up; and dress and fashion make such a
difference in a woman--I suppose she is now ten times better--that is,
prettier: she will introduce you at Paris, and your own _merit_--that is,
manners, and figure, and fortune--will make your way every where.
By-the-bye, I do not see a word about poor Mademoiselle--Oh, yes! here is a
Line squeezed in at the edge--'Mille tendres souvenirs de la part de Mdlle.
O'Faley.'"

"Poor Mademoiselle!"

"Poor Mademoiselle!" repeated Sir Ulick.

"Do you mean _that thing half Irish, half French, half mud, half tinsel?_"
said Ormond.

"Very good memory! very sly, Harry! But still in the Irish half of her I
dare say there is a heart; and we must allow her the tinsel, in pure
gratitude, for having taught you to speak French so well--that will be a
real advantage to you in Paris."

"Whenever I go there, sir," said Ormond, coldly.

Sir Ulick was very much disappointed at perceiving that Ormond had no mind
to go to Paris; but dropping the subject, he turned the conversation upon
the Annalys: he praised Florence to the skies, hoped that Ormond would be
more fortunate than Marcus had been, for somehow or other, he should never
live or die in peace till Florence Annaly was more nearly connected with
him. He regretted, however, that poor Sir Herbert was carried off before he
had completed the levying of those fines, which would have cut off the
entail, and barred the heir-at-law from the Herbert estates. Florence was
not now the great heiress it was once expected she should be; indeed she
had but a moderate gentlewoman's fortune--not even what at Smithfield a
man of Ormond's fortune might expect; but Sir Ulick knew, he said, that
this would make no difference to his ward, unless to make him in greater
impatience to propose for her.

It was impossible to be in greater impatience to propose for her than
Ormond was. Sir Ulick did not wonder at it; but he thought that Miss Annaly
would not, _could_ not, listen to him yet. _Time, the comforter_, must come
first; and while time was doing this business, love could not decently be
admitted.

"That was the reason," said Ulick, returning by another road to the charge,
"why I advised a trip to Paris; but you know best."

"I cannot bear this suspense--I must and will know my fate--I will write
instantly, and obtain an answer."

"Do so; and to save time, I can tell what your fate and your answer will
be: from Florence Annaly, assurance of perfect esteem and regard, as far as
friendship, perhaps; but she will tell you that she cannot think of love at
present. Lady Annaly, prudent Lady Annaly, will say that she hopes Mr.
Ormond will not think of settling for life till he has seen something more
of the world. Well, you don't believe me," said Sir Ulick, interrupting
himself just at the moment when he saw that Ormond began to think there
was some sense in what he was saying.

"If you don't believe me, Harry," continued he, "consult your oracle, Dr.
Cambray: he has just returned from Annaly, and he can tell you how the land
lies."

Dr. Cambray agreed with Sir Ulick that both Lady Annaly and her daughter
would desire that Ormond should see more of the world before he settled for
life; but as to going off to Paris, without waiting to see or write to
them, Dr. Cambray agreed with Ormond that it would be the worst thing he
could do--that so far from appearing a proof of his respect to their grief,
it would only seem a proof of indifference, or a sign of impatience: they
would conclude that he was in haste to leave his friends in adversity, to
go to those in prosperity, and to enjoy the gaiety and dissipation of
Paris. Dr. Cambray advised that he should remain quietly where he was, and
wait till Miss Annaly should be disposed to see him. This was most prudent,
Ormond allowed. "But then the delay!" To conquer by delay we must begin by
conquering our impatience: now that was what our hero could not possibly
do--therefore he jumped hastily to this conclusion, that "in love affairs
no man should follow any mortal's opinion but his own."

Accordingly he sat down and wrote to Miss Annaly a most passionate letter,
enclosed in a most dutiful one to Lady Annaly, as full of respectful
attachment and entire obedience, as a son-in-law expectant could devise--
beginning very properly and very sincerely, with anxiety and hopes about
her ladyship's health, and ending, as properly, and as sincerely, with
hopes that her ladyship would permit him, as soon as possible, to take from
her the greatest, the only remaining source of happiness she had in life--
her daughter.

Having worded this very plausibly--for he had now learned how to write a
letter--our hero despatched a servant of Sir Ulick's with his epistle;
ordering him to wait certainly for an answer, but above all things to make
haste back. Accordingly the man took a cross road--a short cut, and coming
to a bridge, which he did not know was broken down till he was _close upon
it_, he was obliged to return and to go round, and did not get home till
long after dark--and the only answer he brought was, that there was no
answer--only Lady Annaly's compliments.

Ormond could scarcely believe that no answer had been sent; but the man
took all the saints in heaven, or in the calendar, to witness, that he
would not tell his honour, or any _jantleman_, a lie.

Upon a cross-examination, the man gave proof that he had actually seen both
the ladies. They were sitting so and so, and dressed so and so, in
mourning. Farther, he gave undeniable proof that he had delivered the
letters, and that they had been opened and read; for--_by the same token_--
he was summoned up to my lady on account of one of Mr. Ormond's letters, he
did not know _which_, or to _who_, being dated Monday, whereas it was
Wednesday; and he had to clear himself of having been three days on the
road.

Ormond, inordinately impatient, could not rest a moment. The next morning
he set off at full speed for Annaly, determined to find out what was the
matter.

Arrived there, a new footman came to the door with "_Not at home_, sir."
Ormond could have knocked him down, but he contented himself with striking
his own forehead--however, in a genteel proper voice, he desired to see Sir
Herbert's own man, O'Reilly.

"Mr. O'Reilly is not here, sir--absent on business."

Every thing was adverse. Ormond had one hope, that this new fellow, not
knowing him, might by mistake have included him in a general order against
morning visitors.

"My name is Ormond, sir."

"Yes, sir."

"And I beg you will let Lady Annaly and Miss Annaly know that Mr. Ormond is
come to pay his respects to them."

The man seemed very unwilling to carry any message to his ladies. "He was
sure," he said, "that the ladies would not see anybody."

"Was Lady Annaly ill?"

"Her ladyship had been but poorly, but was better within the last two
days."

"And Miss Annaly?"

"Wonderful better, too, sir; has got up her spirits greatly to-day."

"I am very glad to hear it," said Ormond. "Pray, sir, can you tell me
whether a servant from Mr. Ormond brought a letter here yesterday?"

"He did, sir."

"And was there any answer sent?"

"I really can't say, sir."

"Be so good to take my name to your lady," repeated Ormond.

"Indeed, sir, I don't like to go in, for I know my lady--both my ladies is
engaged, very particularly engaged--however, if you very positively desire
it, sir--"

Ormond did very positively desire it, and the footman obeyed. While Ormond
was waiting impatiently for the answer, his horse, as impatient as himself,
would not stand still. A groom, who was sauntering about, saw the
uneasiness of the horse, and observing that it was occasioned by a peacock,
who, with spread tail, was strutting in the sunshine, he ran and chased the
bird away. Ormond thanked the groom, and threw him a _luck token_; but not
recollecting his face, asked how long he had been at Annaly. "I think you
were not here when I was here last?" said Ormond.

"No, sir." said the man, looking a little puzzled; "I never was here till
the day before yesterday in my born days. We _bees_ from England."

"We!"

"That is, I and master--that is, master and I." Ormond grew pale; but the
groom saw nothing of it--his eyes had fixed upon Ormond's horse.

"A very fine horse this of yours, sir, for sartain, if he could but
_stand_, sir; he's main restless at a door. My master's horse is just his
match for that."

"And pray who is your master, sir?" said Ormond, in a voice which he forced
to be calm.

"My master, sir, is one Colonel Albemarle, son of the famous General
Albemarle, as lost his arm, sir, you might have heard talk of, time back,"
said the groom.

At this moment a window-blind was flapped aside, and before the wind blew
it back to its place again, Ormond saw Florence Annaly sitting on a sofa,
and a gentleman, in regimentals, kneeling at her feet.

"Bless my eyes!" cried the groom, "what made you let go his bridle, sir?
Only you sat him well, sir, he would ha' thrown you that minute--Curse the
blind! that flapped in his eyes."

The footman re-appeared on the steps. "Sir, it is just as I said--I could
not be let in. Mrs. Spencer, my lady's woman, says the ladies is engaged--
you can't see them."

Ormond had seen enough.

"Very well, sir," said he--"Mr. Ormond's compliments--he called, that's
all."

Ormond put spurs to his horse, and galloped off; and, fast as he went, he
urged his horse still faster.

In the agony of disappointed love and jealousy, he railed bitterly against
the whole sex, and against Florence Annaly in particular. Many were the
rash vows he made that he would never think of her more--that he would tear
her from his heart--that he would show her that he was no whining lover, no
easy dupe, to be whiffled off and on, the sport of a coquette.

"A coquette!--is it possible, Florence Annaly?--_You_--and after all!"

Certain tender recollections obtruded; but he repelled them--he would not
allow one of them to mitigate his rage. His naturally violent passion of
anger, now that it broke again from the control of his reason, seemed the
more ungovernable from the sense of past and the dread of future
restraint.

So, when a horse naturally violent, and half trained to the curb, takes
fright, or takes offence, and, starting, throws his master, away he
gallops; enraged the more by the falling bridle, he rears, plunges,
curvets, and lashes out behind at broken girth or imaginary pursuer.

"Good Heavens! what is the matter with you, my dear boy?--what has
happened?" cried Sir Ulick, the moment he saw him; for the disorder of
Ormond's mind appeared strongly in his face and gestures--still more
strongly in his words.

When he attempted to give an account of what had happened, it was so
broken, so exclamatory, that it was wonderful how Sir Ulick made out the
plain fact. Sir Ulick, however, well understood the short-hand language of
the passions: he listened with eager interest--he sympathized so fully with
Ormond's feelings--expressed such astonishment, such indignation, that
Harry, feeling him to be his warm friend, loved him as heartily as in the
days of his childhood.

Sir Ulick saw and seized the advantage: he had almost despaired of
accomplishing his purpose--now was the critical instant.

"Harry Ormond," said he, "would you make Florence Annaly feel to the quick
--would you make her repent in sackcloth and ashes--would you make her pine
for you, ay! till her very heart is sick?"

"Would I? to be sure--show me how!--only show me how!" cried Ormond.

"Look ye, Harry! to have and to hold a woman--trust me, for I have had and
held many--to have and to hold a woman, you must first show her that you
can, if you will, fling her from you--ay! and leave her there: set off for
Paris to-morrow morning--my life upon it, the moment she hears you are
gone, she will wish you back again!"

"I'll set off to-night," said Ormond, ringing the bell to give orders to
his servant to prepare immediately for his departure.

Thus Sir Ulick, seizing precisely the moment when Ormond's mind was at the
right heat, aiming with dexterity and striking with force, bent and moulded
him to his purpose.

While preparations for Ormond's journey were making, Sir Ulick said that
there was one thing he must insist upon his doing before he quitted Castle
Hermitage--he must look over and settle his guardianship accounts.

Ormond, whose head was far from business at this moment, was very
reluctant: he said that the accounts could wait till he should return from
France; but Sir Ulick observed that if he, or if Ormond were to die,
leaving the thing unsettled, it would be loss of property to the one, and
loss of credit to the other. Ormond then begged that the accounts might be
sent after him to Paris; he would look over them there at leisure, and sign
them. No, Sir Ulick said, they ought to be signed by some forthcoming
witness in this country. He urged it so much, and put it upon the footing
of his own credit and honour in such a manner, that Ormond could not
refuse. He seized the papers, and took a pen to sign them; but Sir Ulick
snatched the pen from his hand, and absolutely insisted upon his first
knowing what he was going to sign.

"The whole account could have been looked over while we have been talking
about it," said Sir Ulick.

Ormond sat down and looked it over, examined all the vouchers, saw that
every thing was perfectly right and fair, signed the accounts, and esteemed
Sir Ulick the more for having insisted upon showing, and proving that all
was exact.

Sir Ulick offered to manage his affairs for him while he was away,
particularly a large sum which Ormond had in the English funds. Sir Ulick
had a banker and a broker in London, on whom he could depend, and he had,
from his place and connexions, means of obtaining good information in
public affairs; he had made a great deal himself by speculations in the
funds, and he could buy in and sell out to great advantage, he said, for
Ormond. But for this purpose a _power of attorney_ was necessary to be
given by Ormond to Sir Ulick.

There was scarcely time to draw one up, nor was Sir Ulick sure that there
was a printed form in the house. Luckily, however, a proper _power_ was
found, and filled up, and Ormond had just time to sign it before he stepped
into the carriage: he embraced his guardian, and thanked him heartily for
his care of the interests of his purse, and still more for the sympathy he
had shown in the interests of his heart. Sir Ulick was moved at parting
with him, and this struck Harry the more, because he certainly struggled to
suppress his feelings. Ormond stopped at Vicar's Dale to tell Dr. Cambray
all that had happened, to thank him and his family for their kindness, and
to take leave of them.

They were indeed astonished when he entered, saying, "Any commands, my good
friends, for London or Paris? I am on my way there--carriage at the door."

At first they could not believe him to be serious; but when they heard his
story, and saw by the agitation of his manner that he was in earnest, they
were still more surprised at the suddenness of his determination. They all
believed and represented to him that there must be some mistake, and that
he was not cool enough to judge sanely at this moment.

Dr. Cambray observed that Miss Annaly could not prevent any man from
kneeling to her. Ormond haughtily said, "He did not know what she could
prevent, he only knew what she did. She had not vouchsafed an answer to his
letter--she had not admitted him. These he thought were sufficient
indications that the person at her feet was accepted. Whether he were or
not, Ormond would inquire no further. She might now accept or refuse, as
she pleased--he would go to Paris."

His friends had nothing more to say or to do, but to sigh, and to wish him
a good journey, and much pleasure at Paris.

Ormond now requested that Dr. Cambray would have the goodness to write to
him from time to time, to inform him of whatever he might wish to know
during his absence. He was much mortified to hear from the doctor that he
was obliged to proceed, with his family, for some months, to a distant part
of the north of England; and that, as to the Annalys, they were immediately
removing to the sea-coast of Devonshire, for the benefit of a mild climate
and of sea-bathing. Ormond, therefore, had no resource but in his guardian.
Sir Ulick's affairs, however, were to take him over to London, from whence
Ormond could not expect much satisfactory intelligence with respect to
Ireland.

Ormond flew to Dublin, crossed the channel in an express boat, travelled
night and day in the mail to London, from thence to Dover--crossed the
water in a storm, and travelled with the utmost expedition to Paris, though
there was no one reason why he should be in haste; and for so much, his
travelling was as little profitable or amusing as possible. He saw, heard,
and understood nothing, till he reached Paris.

It has been said that the traveller without sensibility may travel from Dan
to Beersheba, without finding any thing worth seeing. The traveller who has
too much sensibility often observes as little--of this all persons must be
sensible, who have ever travelled when their minds were engrossed with
painful feelings, or possessed by any strong passion.



CHAPTER XXVII.

Ormond had written to M. and Madame de Connal to announce his intentions
of spending some time in Paris, and to thank them for the invitation to
their house; an invitation which, however, he declined accepting; but he
requested M. de Connal to secure apartments for him in some hotel near
them.

Upon his arrival he found every thing prepared for a Milord Anglois:
handsome apartments, fashionable carriage, well-powdered laquais, and a
valet-de-chambre, waited the orders of monsieur.

Connal was with him a few minutes after his arrival--welcomed him to Paris
with cordial gaiety--was more glad, and more sorry, and said more in five
minutes, and above all made more protestations of regard, than an
Englishman would make in a year.

He was rejoiced--delighted--enchanted to see Mr. Ormond. Madame de Connal
was absolutely transported with joy when she heard he was on his road to
Paris. Madame was now at Versailles; but she would return in a few days:
she would be in despair at Mr. Ormond's not accepting the apartments in the
Hotel de Connal, which were actually prepared for him; but in fact it was
nearly the same thing, within two doors of them. He hoped Mr. Ormond liked
his apartments--but in truth that was of little consequence, for he would
never be in them, except when he was asleep or dressing.

Ormond thought the apartments quite superb, and was going to have thanked
M. de Connal for the trouble he had taken; but at the word _superbe_,
Connal ran on again with French vivacity of imagination.

"Certainly, Mr. Ormond ought," he said, "to have every thing now in the
first style." He congratulated our hero on his accession of fortune, "of
which Madame de Connal and he had heard with inexpressible joy. And Mdlle.
O'Faley, too, she who had always prophesied that they should meet in
happiness at Paris, was now absolutely in ecstasy."

"You have no idea, in short, my dear Ormond, of what a strong impression
you left on all our minds--no conception of the lively interest you always
inspired."

It was a lively interest which had slumbered quietly for a considerable
time, but now it wakened with perfectly good grace. Ormond set little value
on these sudden protestations, and his pride felt a sort of fear that it
should be supposed he was deceived by them; yet, altogether, the manner was
agreeable, and Connal was essentially useful at this moment: as Sir Ulick
had justly observed, a coxcomb in fashion may, in certain circumstances, be
a useful friend.

"But, my dear fellow," cried Connal, "what savage cut your hair last?--It
is a sin to trust your fine head to the barbarians--my hairdresser shall be
with you in the twinkling of an eye: I will send my tailor--allow me to
choose your embroidery, and see your lace, before you decide--I am said to
have a tolerable taste--the ladies say so, and they are always the best
judges. The French dress will become you prodigiously, I foresee--but, just
Heaven!--what buckles!--those must have been made before the flood: no
disparagement to your taste, but what could you do better in the Black
Islands? Paris is the only place for _bijouterie_--except in steel, Paris
surpasses the universe--your eyes will be dazzled by the Palais Royal. But
this hat!--you know it can't appear--it would destroy you: my _chapelier_
shall be with you instantly. It will all be done in five minutes--you have
no idea of the celerity with which you may command every thing at Paris.
But I am so sorry that madame is at Versailles, and that I am under a
necessity of being there myself to-morrow for the rest of this week; but I
have a friend, a little _Abb_, who will be delighted in the mean time to
show you Paris."

From the moment of his arrival at Paris, Ormond resolved to put Florence
Annaly completely out of his thoughts, and to drown in gaiety and
dissipation the too painful recollection of her duplicity towards him. He
was glad to have a few days to look about him, and to see something of
Paris.

He should like, as he told M. de Connal, to go to the play, to accustom
himself to the language. He must wear off his English or Irish awkwardness
a little, before he should be presented to Madame de Connal, or appear in
French society. A profusion of compliments followed from M. de Connal; but
Ormond persisting, it was settled that he should go incog. this night to
the Thtre Franois.

Connal called upon him in the evening, and took him to the theatre.

They were in _une petite loge_, where they could see without being seen. In
the box with them was the young Abb, and a pretty little French actress,
Mdlle. Adrienne. At the first coup-d'oeil, the French ladies did not strike
him as handsome; they looked, as he said, like dolls, all eyes and rouge;
and rouge, as he thought, very unbecomingly put on, in one frightful red
patch or plaster, high upon the cheek, without any pretence to the
imitation of natural colour.

"Eh fi donc!" said the Abb, "what you call the natural colour, that would
be _rouge coquette_, which no woman of quality can permit herself."

"No, Dieu merci," said the actress, "that is for us: 'tis very fair we
should have some advantages in the competition, they have so many--by
birth--if not by nature."

M. de Connal explained to Ormond that the frightful red patch which
offended his eye, was the mark of a woman of quality: "women only of a
certain rank have the privilege of wearing their rouge in that manner--your
eye will soon grow accustomed to it, and you will like it as a sign of rank
and fashion."

The actress shrugged her shoulders, said something about "_la belle
nature_," and the good taste of Monsieur l'Anglois. The moment the curtain
drew up, she told him the names of all the actors and actresses as they
appeared--noting the value and celebrity of each. The play was,
unfortunately for Ormond, a tragedy; and Le Kain was at Versailles. Ormond
thought he understood French pretty well, but he did not comprehend what
was going on. The French tone of tragic declamation, so unnatural to his
ear, distracted his attention so much, that he could not make out the sense
of what any of the actors said.

"'Tis like the quality rouge," said Connal; "your taste must be formed to
it. But your eye and your ear will accommodate themselves to both. You will
like it in a month."

M. de Connal said this was always the first feeling of foreigners. "But
have patience," said he; "go on listening, and in a night or two, perhaps
in an hour or two, the sense will break in upon you all at once. You will
never find yourself at a loss in society. Talk, at all events, whether you
speak ill or well, talk: don't aim at correctness--we don't expect it
Besides, as they will tell you, we like to see how a stranger 'play with
our language.'"

M. de Connal's manner was infinitely more agreeable toward Ormond now than
in former days.

There was perhaps still at the bottom of his mind the same fund of
self-conceit, but he did not take the same arrogant tone. It was the tone
not of a superior to an inferior, but of a friend, in a new society, and a
country to which he is a stranger. There was as little of the protector in
his manner as possible, considering his natural presumption and acquired
habits: considering that he had made his own way in Paris, and that he
thought that to be the first man in a certain circle there, was to be
nearly the first man in the universe. The next morning, the little Abb
called to pay his compliments, and to offer his services.

M. de Connal being obliged to go to Versailles, in his absence the Abb
would be very happy, he said, to attend Mr. Ormond, and to show him Paris:
he believed, he humbly said, that he had the means of showing him every
thing that was worth his attention.

Away they drove.

"Gare! gare!" cried the coachman, chasing away the droves of walkers before
him. There being no footpaths in the streets of Paris, they were
continually driven up close to the walls.

Ormond at first shrunk at the sight of their peril and narrow escapes.

"Monsieur apparemment is nervous after his _voyage?_" said the Abb.

"No, but I am afraid the people will be run over. I will make the coachman
drive more quietly."

"Du tout!--not at all," said the little Abb, who was of a noble family,
and had all the airs of it. "Leave him to settle it with the people--they
are used to it. And, after all, what have they to think of, but to take
care of themselves--_la cancille_?"

"_La canaille_," synonymous with the _swinish multitude_, an expression of
contempt for which the Parisian nobility have since paid terribly dear.

Ormond, who was not used to it, found it difficult to abstract his sympathy
from his fellow-creatures, by whatever name they were called; and he could
not exclusively command his attention, to admire the houses and churches,
which his Abb continually pointed out to his notice.

He admired, however, the fine faade of the Louvre, the Place de Louis XV.,
the astonishingly brilliant spectacle of the Palais Royal, Notre Dame, a
few handsome bridges, and the drives on the Boulevards.

But in fact there was at that time much more to be heard, and less to be
seen, than at present in Paris. Paris was not then as fine a city as it now
is. Ormond, in his secret soul, preferred the bay of Dublin to all he then
saw on the banks of the Seine.

The little Abb was not satisfied with the paucity of his exclamations, and
would have given him up, as _un froid Anglois_, but that, fortunately, our
young hero had each night an opportunity of redeeming his credit. They went
to the play--he saw French comedy!--he saw and heard Molet, and Madame de
la Ruette: the Abb was charmed with his delight, his enthusiasm, his
genuine enjoyment of high comedy, and his quick feeling of dramatic
excellence. It was indeed perfection--beyond any thing of which Ormond
could have formed an idea. Every part well performed--nothing to break the
illusion!

This first fit of dramatic enthusiasm was the third day at its height, when
Connal returned from Versailles; and it was so strong upon him, and he was
so full of Molet and Madame de la Ruette, that he could scarcely listen to
what Connal said of Versailles, the king's supper, and Madame la Dauphine.

"No doubt--he should like to see all that--but at all events he was
positively determined to see Molet, and Madame de la Ruette, every night
they acted."

Connal smiled, and only answered, "Of course he would do as he pleased."
But in the mean time, it was now Madame de Connal's _night_ for seeing
company, and he was to make his debut in a French assembly. Connal called
for him early, that they might have a few minutes to themselves before the
company should arrive.

Ormond felt some curiosity, a little anxiety, a slight flutter at the
heart, at the thought of seeing Dora again.

The arrival of her husband interrupted these thoughts.

Connal took the light from the hands of Crepin, the valet, and reviewed
Ormond from head to foot.

"Very well, Crepin: you have done your part, and Nature has done hers, for
Monsieur."

"Yes, truly," said Crepin, "Nature has done wonders for Monsieur; and
Monsieur, now he is dressed, has really all the air of a Frenchman."

"Quite l'air comme il faut! l'air noble!" added Connal; and he agreed with
Crepin in opinion that French dress made an astonishing difference in Mr.
Ormond.

"Madame de Connal, I am sure, will think so," continued Connal, "will see
it with admiration--for she really has good taste. I will pledge myself for
your success. With that figure, with that air, you will turn many heads in
Paris--if you will but talk enough. Say every thing that comes into your
head--don't be like an Englishman, always thinking about the sense--the
more nonsense the better--trust me--_livrez-vous_--let yourself out--follow
me, and fear nothing," cried he, running down stairs, delighted with Ormond
and with himself.

He foresaw that he should gain credit by _producing_ such a man. He really
wished that Ormond should _succeed_ in French society, and that he should
pass his time agreeably in Paris.

No man could feel better disposed towards another. Even if he should take a
fancy to Madame, it was to the polite French husband a matter of
indifference, except so far as the _arrangement_ might, or might not,
interfere with his own views.

And these views--what were they?--Only to win all the young man's fortune
at play. A cela prs--excepting this, he was sincerely Ormond's friend,
ready to do every thing possible--de faire l'impossible--to oblige and
entertain him.

Connal enjoyed Ormond's surprise at the magnificence of his hotel. After
ascending a spacious staircase, and passing through antechamber after
antechamber, they reached the splendid salon, blazing with lights,
reflected on all sides in mirrors, that reached from the painted ceiling to
the inlaid floor.

"Not a creature here yet--happily." "Madame begs," said the servant, "that
Monsieur will pass on into the boudoir."

"Any body with Madame?"

"No one but Madame de Clairville."

"Only _l'amie intime_," said Connal, "the bosom friend."

"How will Dora feel?--How will it be with us both?" thought Ormond, as he
followed the light step of the husband.

"Entrez!--Entrez toujours."

Ormond stopped at the threshold, absolutely dazzled by the brilliancy of
Dora's beauty, her face, her figure, her air, so infinitely improved, so
fashioned!

"Dora!--Ah! Madame de Connal," cried Ormond.

No French actor could have done it better than nature did it for him.

Dora gave one glance at Ormond--pleasure, joy, sparkled in her eyes; then
leaning on the lady who stood beside her, almost sinking, Dora sighed, and
exclaimed, "Ah! Harry Ormond!"

The husband vanished.

"Ah ciel!" said l'amie intime, looking towards Ormond.

"Help me to support her, Monsieur--while I seek de l'eau de Cologne."

Ormond, seized with sudden tremor, could scarcely advance.

Dora sunk on the sofa, clasping her beautiful hands, and exclaiming, "The
companion of my earliest days!"

Then Ormond, excused to himself, sprang forward,--"Friend of my childhood!"
cried he: "yes, my sister: your father promised me this friendship--this
happiness," said he supporting her, as she raised herself from the sofa.

"O est-il? o est-il?--Where is he, Monsieur Ormond?" cried Mademoiselle,
throwing open the door. "Ah ciel, comme il est beau! A perfect Frenchman
already! And how much embellished by dress!--Ah! Paris for that. Did I not
prophesy?--Dora, my darling, do me the justice.--But--comme vous voil
saisie!--here's l'amie with l'eau de Cologne. Ah! my child, recover
yourself, for here is some one--the Comte de Jarillac it is entering the
salon."

The promptitude of Dora's recovery was a new surprise to our hero. "Follow
me," said she to him, and with Parisian ease and grace she glided into the
salon to receive M. de Jarillac--presented Ormond to M. le Comte--"Anglois
--Irlandois--an English, an Irish gentleman--the companion of her
childhood," with the slightest, lightest tone of sentiment imaginable; and
another count and another came, and a baron, and a marquis, and a duke, and
Madame la Comtesse de ----, and Madame la Duchesse ----; and all were
received with ease, respect, vivacity, or sentiment as the occasion
required--now advancing a step or two to mark _empressement_ where
requisite;--regaining always, imperceptibly, the most advantageous
situation and attitude for herself;--presenting Ormond to every one--quite
intent upon him, yet appearing entirely occupied with every body else; and,
in short, never forgetting them, him, or herself for an instant.

"Can this be Dora?" thought Ormond in admiration, yet in astonishment that
divided his feelings. It was indeed wonderful to see how quickly, how
completely, the Irish country girl had been metamorphosed into a French
woman of fashion.

And now surrounded by admirers, by adorers in embroidery and blazing with
crosses and stars, she received _les hommages_--enjoyed _le succs_--
accepted the incense without bending too low or holding herself too high--
not too sober, nor too obviously intoxicated. Vanity in all her heart, yet
vanity not quite turning her head, not more than was agreeable and
becoming--extending her smiles to all, and hoping all the time that Harry
Ormond envied each. Charmed with him--for her early passion for him had
revived in an instant--the first sight of his figure and air, the first
glance in the boudoir, had been sufficient. She knew, too, how well he
would _succeed_ at Paris--how many rivals she would have in a week: these
perceptions, sensations, and conclusions, requiring so much time in slow
words to express, had darted through Dora's head in one instant, had
exalted her imagination, and touched her heart--as much as that heart could
be touched.

Ormond meantime breathed more freely, and recovered from his tremors.
Madame de Connal, surrounded by adorers, and shining in the salon, was not
so dangerous as Dora, half fainting in the boudoir; nor had any words that
wit or sentiment could devise power to please or touch him so much as the
"_Harry Ormond_!" which had burst naturally from Dora's lips. Now he began
almost to doubt whether nature or art prevailed. Now he felt himself safe
at least, since he saw that it was only the coquette of the Black Islands
transformed into the coquette of the Hotel de Connal. The transformation
was curious, was admirable; Ormond thought he could admire without danger,
and, in due time, perhaps gallant, with the best of them, without feeling--
without scruple.

The tables were now arranging for play. The conversation he heard every
where round him related to the good or bad fortune of the preceding nights.
Ormond perceived that it was the custom of the house to play every evening,
and the expressions that reached him about bets and debts confirmed the
hint which his guardian had given him, that Connal played high.

At present, however, he did not seem to have any design upon Ormond--he was
engaged at the further end of the room. He left him quite to himself, and
to Madame, and never once even asked him to play.

There seemed more danger of his being _left out_, than of his being _taken
in_.

"Donnez-moi le bras--Come with me, Monsieur Ormond," said Mademoiselle,
"and you shall lose nothing--while they are settling about their parties,
we can get one little moment's chat."

She took him back to the boudoir.

"I want to make you know our Paris," said she: "here we can see the whole
world pass in review, and I shall tell you every thing most necessary for
you to know; for example--who is who--and still more it imports you to know
who and who are together."

"Look at that lady, beautiful as the day, in diamonds."

"Madame de Connal, do you mean?" said Ormond.

"Ah! no; not her always," said Mademoiselle: "though she has the apple
here, without contradiction," continued Mademoiselle, still speaking in
English, which it was always her pride to speak to whomsoever could
understand her. "Absolutely, without vanity, though my niece, I may say it,
she is a perfect creature--and mise  ravir!--Did you ever see such a
change for the best in one season? Ah! Paris!--Did I not tell you well?--
And you felt it well yourself--you lost your head, I saw that, at first
sight of her _ la Franoise_--the best proof of your taste and
sensibilit--she has infinite sensibility too!--interesting, and at the
height, what you English call the tip-top, of the fashion here."

"So it appears, indeed," said Ormond, "by the crowd of admirers I see round
Madame de Connal."

"Admirers! yes, adorers, you may say--encore, if you added lovers, you
would not be much wrong; dying for love--perdument pris! See, there, he
who is bowing now--Monsieur le Marquis de Beaulieu--homme de cour--plein
d'esprit--homme marquant--very remarkable man. But--Ah! voil que entre--of
the court. Did you ever see finer entre made by man into a room, so full
of grace? Ah! le Comte de Belle Chasse--How many women already he has
_lost_!--It is a real triumph to Madame de Connal to have him in her
chains. What a smile!--C'est lui qui est aimable pour nous autres--d'une
soumission pour les femmes--d'une fiert pour les hommes. As the lamb
gentle for the pretty woman; as the lion terrible for the man. It is that
Comte de Belle Chasse who is absolutely irresistible."

"_Absolutely_ irresistible," Ormond repeated, smiling; "not absolutely, I
hope."

"Oh! that is understood--you do not doubt la sagesse de Madame?--Besides,
_heureusement_, there is an infinite safety for her in the number, as you
see, of her adorers. Wait till I name them to you--I shall give you a
catalogue raisonne."

With rapid enunciation Mademoiselle went through the names and rank of the
circle of adorers, noting with complacency the number of ladies to whom
each man of gallantry was supposed to have paid his addresses--next to
being of the blood royal, this appearing to be of the highest distinction.

"And  propos, Monsieur d'Ormond, you, yourself, when do you count to go to
Versailles?--Ah!--when you shall see the king and the king's supper, and
Madame la Dauphine! Ah!"

Mademoiselle was recalled from the ecstasy in which she had thrown up her
eyes to Heaven, by some gentleman speaking to her as he passed the open
door of the boudoir arm in arm with a lady--Mademoiselle answered, with a
profound inclination of the head, whispering to Ormond after they had
passed, "M. le Due de C---- with Madame de la Tour. Why he is constant
always to that woman, Heaven knows better than me! Stand, if you are so
good, Monsieur, a little more this way, and give your attention--they don't
want you yet at play."

Then designating every person at the different card-tables, she said, "That
lady is the wife of M.----, and there is M. le Baron de L---- her lover,
the gentleman who looks over her cards--and that other lady with the joli
pompon, she is intimate with M. de la Tour, the husband of the lady who
passed with M. le Duc." Mademoiselle explained all these arrangements with
the most perfect sang froid, as things of course, that every body knew and
spoke of, except just before the husbands; but there was no mystery, no
concealment: "What use?--To what good?"

Ormond asked whether there were _any_ ladies in the room who were supposed
to be faithful to their husbands.

"Eh!--Ma nice, par exemple, Madame de Connal, I may cite as a woman of la
plus belle rputation, sans tche--what you call unblemish."

"Assuredly," said Ormond, "you could not, I hope, think me so indiscreet--I
believe I said _ladies_ in the plural number."

"Ah! oui, assuredly, and I can name you twenty. To begin, there, do you see
that woman standing up, who has the air as if she think of nothing at all,
and nobody thinking of her, with only her husband near her, _cet grand
homme blme?_--There is Madame de la Rousse--_d'une rputation intacte!_--
frightfully dressed, as she is always. But, hold, you see that pretty
little Comtesse de la Brie, all in white?--Charmante! I give her to you as
a reputation against which slander cannot breathe--Nouvelle marie--bride--
in what you call de honey-moon; but we don't know that in French--no
matter! Again, since you are curious in these things, there is another
reputation without spot, Madame de St. Ange, I warrant her to you--bien
froide, celle-l, cold as any English--married a full year, and still her
choice to make; allons,--there is three I give you already, without
counting my niece; and, wait, I will find you yet another," said
Mademoiselle, looking carefully through the crowd.

She was relieved from her difficulty by the entrance of the little Abb,
who came to summon Monsieur to Madame de Connal, who did him the honour to
invite him to the table. Ormond played, and fortune smiled upon him, as she
usually does upon a new votary; and beauty smiled upon him perhaps on the
same principle. Connal never came near him till supper was announced; then
only to desire him to give his arm to a charming little Countess--la
nouvelle marie--Madame de Connal, belonging, by right of rank, to
Monsieur le Comte de Belle Chasse. The supper was one of the delightful
_petit soupers_ for which Paris was famous at that day, and which she will
never see again.

The moralist, who considers the essential interests of morality, more than
the immediate pleasures of society, will think this rather a matter of
rejoicing than regret. How far such society and correct female conduct be
compatible, is a question which it might take too long a time to decide.

Therefore, be it sufficient here to say, that Ormond, without staying to
examine it, was charmed with the present effect; with the gaiety, the wit,
the politeness, the ease, and altogether with that indescribable thing,
that untranslatable esprit de socit. He could not afterwards remember any
thing very striking or very solid that had been said, but all was agreeable
at the moment, and there was great variety. Ormond's self-love was, he knew
not how, flattered. Without effort, it seemed to be the object of every
body to make Paris agreeable to him; and they convinced him that he would
find it the most charming place in the world--without any disparagement to
his own country, to which all solid honours and advantages were left
undisputed. The ladies, whom he had thought so little captivating at first
view, at the theatre, were all charming on _farther acquaintance_: so full
of vivacity, and something so flattering in their manner, that it put a
stranger at once at his ease. Towards the end of the supper he found
himself talking to two very pretty women at once, with good effect, and
thinking at the same time of Dora and the Comte de Belle Chasse. Moreover,
he thought he saw that Dora was doing the same between the irresistible
Comte, and the Marquis, plein d'esprit, from whom, while she was listening
and talking without intermission, her eyes occasionally strayed, and once
or twice met those of Ormond.

"Is it indiscreet to ask you whether you passed your evening agreeably?"
said M. de Connal, when the company had retired.

"Delightfully!" said Ormond: "the most agreeable evening I ever passed in
my life!"

Then fearing that he had spoken with too much enthusiasm, and that the
husband might observe that his eyes, as he spoke, involuntarily turned
towards Madame de Connal, he moderated (he might have saved himself the
trouble), he moderated his expression by adding, that as far as he could
yet judge, he thought French society very agreeable.

"You have seen nothing yet--you are right not to judge hastily," said
Connal; "but so far, I am glad you are tolerably well satisfied."

"Ah! oui, Monsieur Ormond," cried Mademoiselle, joining them, "we shall fix
you at Paris, I expect."

"You hope, I suppose you mean, my dear aunt," said Dora, with such
flattering hope in her voice, and in the expression of her countenance,
that Ormond decided that he "certainly intended to spend the winter at
Paris."

Connal, satisfied with this certainty, would have let Ormond go. But
Mademoiselle had many compliments to make him and herself upon his
pronunciation, and his fluency in speaking the French language--really like
a Frenchman himself--the Marquis de Beaulieu had said to her: she was sure
M. d'Ormond could not fail to _succeed_ in Paris with that perfection added
to all his other advantages. It was the greatest of all the advantages in
the world--the greatest advantage in the _universe_, she was going on to
say, but M. de Connal finished the flattery better.

"You would pity us, Ormond," cried he, interrupting Mademoiselle, "if you
could see and hear the Vandals they send to us from England with letters of
introduction--barbarians, who can neither sit, stand, nor speak--nor even
articulate the language. How many of these _butors_, rich, of good family,
I have been sometimes called upon to introduce into society, and to present
at court! Upon my honour it has happened to me to wish they might hang
themselves out of my way, or be found dead in their beds the day I was to
take them to Versailles."

"It is really too great a tax upon the good-breeding of the lady of the
house," said Madame de Connal, "deplorable, when she has nothing better to
say of an English guest than that 'Ce monsieur l a un grand talent pour le
silence.'"

Ormond, conscious that he had talked away at a great rate, was pleased by
this indirect compliment.

"But such personnages muts never really see French society. They never
obtain more than a supper--not a _petit souper_--no, no, an invitation to a
great assembly, where they see nothing. Milord Anglois is lost in the
crowd, or stuck across a door-way by his own sword. Now, what could any
letter of recommendation do for such a fellow as that?"

"The letters of recommendation which are of most advantage," said Madame de
Connal, "are those which are written in the countenance."

Ormond had presence of mind enough not to bow, though the compliment was
directed distinctly to him--a look of thanks he knew was sufficient. As he
retired, Mademoiselle, pursuing him to the door, begged that he would come
as early as he could next morning, that she might introduce him to her
apartments, and explain to him all the superior conveniences of a French
house. M. de Connal representing, however, that the next day Mr. Ormond was
to go to Versailles, Mademoiselle acknowledged _that_ was an affair to
which all others must yield.

Well flattered by all the trio, and still more perhaps by his own vanity,
our young hero was at last suffered to depart.

The first appearance at Versailles was a matter of great consequence.
Court-dress was then an affair of as much importance at Paris as it seems
to be now in London, if we may judge by the columns of birthday dresses,
and the _honourable notice_ of gentlemen's coats and waistcoats. It was
then at Paris, however, as it is now and ever will be all over the world,
essential to the appearance of a gentleman, that whatever time, pains, or
expense, it might have cost, he should, from the moment he is dressed,
_be_, or at least _seem_ to be, above his dress. In this as in most cases,
the shortest and safest way to _seem_ is to _be_. Our young hero being free
from personal conceit, or overweening anxiety about his appearance, looked
at ease. He called at the Hotel de Connal the day he was to go to
Versailles, and Mademoiselle was in ecstasy at the sight of his dress,
exclaiming, "superbe!--magnifique!"

M. de Connal seemed more struck with his air than his dress, and Dora,
perhaps, was more pleased with his figure; she was silent, but it was a
silence that spoke; her husband heeded not what it said, but, pursuing his
own course, observed, that, to borrow the expression of Crepin, the valet-
de-chambre, no contemptible judge in these cases, M. Ormond looked not only
as if he was _n coiff_, but as if he had been born with a sword by his
side. "Really, my dear friend," continued M. de Connal, "you look as if you
had come at once full dressed into the world, which in our days is better
than coming ready armed out of the head of Jupiter."

Mdlle. O'Faley, now seizing upon Ormond, whom she called her pupil, carried
him off, to show him her apartments and the whole house; which she did with
many useful notes--pointing out the convenience and entire liberty that
result from the complete separation of the apartments of the husband and
wife in French houses.

"You see, Monsieur et Madame with their own staircases, their own passages,
their own doors in and out, and all separate for the people of Monsieur,
and the women of Madame, and here through this little door you go into the
apartments of Madame."

Ormond's English foot stopped respectfully.

"Eh, entrez toujours," said Mademoiselle, as the husband had said before at
the door of the boudoir.

"But Madame de Connal is dressing, perhaps," said Ormond.

"Et puis?--and what then? you must get rid as fast as you can of your
English prjugs--and she is not here neither," said Mademoiselle, opening
the door.

Madame de Connal was in an inner apartment; and Ormond, the instant after
he entered this room with Mademoiselle, heard a quick step, which he knew
was Dora's, running to bolt the door of the inner room--he was glad that
she had not quite got rid of her English prejudices.

Mdlle. O'Faley pointed out to him all the accommodations of a French
apartment: she had not at this moment the slightest _malice_ or bad
intention in any thing she was saying--she simply spoke in all the
innocence of a Frenchwoman--if that term be intelligible. If she had any
secret motive, it was merely the vanity of showing that she was quite
Parisienne; and there again she was mistaken; for having lived half her
life out of Paris, she had forgotten, if she ever had it, the tone of good
society, and upon her return had overdone the matter, exaggerated French
manners, to prove to her niece that she knew les usages, les convenances,
les nuances--enfin, la mode de Paris! A more dangerous guide in Paris for a
young married woman in every respect could scarcely be found.

M. de Connal's valet now came to let Mr. Ormond know that Monsieur waited
his orders. But for this interruption, he was in a fair way to hear all the
private history of the family, all the secrets that Mademoiselle knew.

Of the amazing communicativeness of Frenchwomen on all subjects, our young
hero had as yet no conception.



CHAPTER XXVIII.

It was during the latter years of the life of Louis the Fifteenth, and
during the reign of Madame du Barry, that Ormond was at Paris. The court of
Versailles was at this time in all its splendour, if not in all its glory.
At the souper du roi, Ormond beheld, in all the magnificence of dress and
jewels, the nobility, wealth, fashion, and beauty of France. Well might the
brilliancy dazzle the eyes of a youth fresh from Ireland, when it amazed
even old ambassadors, accustomed to the ordinary grandeur of courts. When
he recovered from his first astonishment, when his eyes were a little
better used to the light, and he looked round and considered all these
magnificently decorated personages, assembled for the purpose of standing
at a certain distance to see one man eat his supper, it did appear to him
an extraordinary spectacle; and the very great solemnity and devotion of
the assistants, so unsuited to the French countenance, inclined him to
smile. It was well for him, however, that he kept his Irish risible muscles
in order, and that no courtier could guess his thoughts--a smile would have
lost him his reputation. Nothing in the world appeared to Frenchmen,
formerly, of more importance than their court etiquette, though there were
some who began about this time to suspect that the court order of things
might not be co-existent with the order of nature--though there were some
philosophers and statesmen who began to be aware, that the daily routine of
the courtier's etiquette was not as necessary as the motions of the sun,
moon, and planets. Nor could it have been possible to convince half at
least of the crowd, who assisted at the king's supper this night, that all
the French national eagerness about the health, the looks, the words, of
_le roi_, all the attachment, _le dvouement_, professed habitually--
perhaps felt habitually--for the reigning monarch, whoever or whatever he
might be, by whatever name--notre bon roi, or simply notre roi de France--
should in a few years pass away, and be no more seen.

Ormond had no concern with the affairs of the nation, nor with the future
fate of any thing he beheld: he was only a spectator, a foreigner; and his
business was, according to Mademoiselle's maxim, to enjoy to-day and to
reflect to-morrow. His enjoyment of this day was complete: he not only
admired, but was admired. In the vast crowd he was distinguished: some
nobleman of note asked who he was--another observed _l'air noble_--another
exclaimed, "_ Le bel Anglois_!" and his fortune was made at Paris;
especially as a friend of Madame du Barry's asked where he bought his
embroidery.

He went afterwards, at least in Connal's society, by the name of "_Le bel
Anglois_." Half in a tone of raillery, yet with a look that showed she felt
it to be just, Madame de Connal first adopted the appellation, and then
changed the term to "_mon bel Irlandois_." Invitations upon invitations
poured upon Ormond--all were eager to have him at their parties--he was
every where--attending Madame de Connal--and she, how proud to be attended
by Ormond! He dreaded lest his principles should not withstand the strong
temptation. He could not leave her, but he determined to see her only in
crowds; accordingly, he avoided every select party: l'amie intime could
never for the first three weeks get him to one _petit comit_, though
Madame de Connal assured him that her friend's _petit soupers_ "were
charming, worth all the crowded assemblies in Paris." Still he pursued his
plan, and sought for safety in a course of dissipation.

"I give you joy," said Connal to him one day, "you are fairly launched! you
are no distressed vessel to be _taken in tow_, nor a petty bark to sail in
any man's _wake_. You have a gale, and are likely to have a triumph of your
own." Connal was, upon all occasions, careful to impress upon Ormond's
mind, that he left him wholly to himself, for he was aware, that in former
days, he had offended his independent spirit by airs of protection. He
managed better now--he never even invited him to play, though it was his
main object to draw him to his faro-table. He made use of some of his
friends or confederates, who played for him: Connal occasionally coming to
the table as an unconcerned spectator. Ormond played with so much freedom,
and seemed to have so gentlemanlike an indifference whether he lost or won,
that he was considered as an easy dupe. Time only was necessary, M. de
Connal thought, to lead him on gradually and without alarm, to let him warm
to the passion for play. Meanwhile Madame de Connal felt as fully persuaded
that Ormond's passion for her would increase. It was her object to _fix_
him at Paris; but she should be content, perfectly happy with his
friendship, his society, his sentiments: her own _sentiment_ for him, as
she confessed to Madame de Clairville, was absolutely invincible; but it
should never lead her beyond the bounds of virtue. It was involuntary, but
it should never be a crime.

Madame de Clairville, who understood her business, and spoke with all the
fashionable _cant_ of sensibility, asked how it was possible that an
involuntary sentiment could ever be a crime?

As certainly as the novice among a band of sharpers is taught, by the
technical language of the gang, to conquer his horror of crime, so
certainly does the _cant of sentiment_ operate upon the female novice, and
vanquish her fear of shame and moral horror of vice.

The allusion is coarse--so much the better: strength, not elegance, is
necessary on some occasions to make an impression. The truth will strike
the good sense and good feelings of our countrywomen, and unadorned, they
will prefer it to German or French sophistry. By such sophistry, however,
was Dora insensibly led on.

But Ormond did not yet advance in learning the language of sentiment--he
was amusing himself in the world--and Dora imagined that the dissipation in
which he lived prevented him from having time to think of his passion: she
began to hate the dissipation.

Connal one day, when Dora was present, observed that Ormond seemed to be
quite in his natural element in this sea of pleasure.

"Who would have thought it?" said Dora: "I thought Mr. Ormond's taste was
more for domestic happiness and retirement."

"Retirement at Paris!" said Ormond.

"Domestic happiness at Paris!" said Connal.

Madame de Connal sighed--No, it was Dora that sighed.

"Where do you go to-night?" said her husband.

"Nowhere--I shall stay at home. And you?" said she, looking up at Harry
Ormond.

"To Madame de la Tour's."

"That's the affair of half an hour--only to appear--"

"Afterwards to the opera," said Ormond.

"And after the opera--can't you sup here?" said Madame de Connal.

"With the utmost pleasure--but that I am engaged to Madame de la Brie's
ball."

"That's true," cried Madame de Connal, starting up--"I had forgot it--so am
I this fortnight--I may as well go to the opera, too, and I can carry you
to Madame de la Tour's--I owe her a five minutes' sitting--though she is un
peu precieuse. And what can you find in that little cold Madame de la Brie
--do you like ice?"

"He like to break de ice, I suppose," said Mademoiselle. "Ma foi, you must
then take a hatchet there!"

"No occasion; I had rather slide upon the ice than break it. My business at
Paris is merely, you know, to amuse myself," said he, looking at Connal--
"Glissez, mortels, n'appuyez pas."

"But if de ice should melt of itself," said Mademoiselle, "what would you
do den? What would become of him, den, do you think, my dear niece?"

It was a case which she did not like to consider--Dora blushed--no creature
was so blind as Mademoiselle, with all her boasted quickness and
penetration.

From this time forward no more was heard of Madame de Connal's taste for
domestic life and retirement--she seemed quite convinced, either by her
husband, or by Mr. Ormond, or both, that no such thing was practicable at
Paris. She had always liked le grand monde--she liked it better now than
ever, when she found Ormond in every crowded assembly, every place of
public amusement--a continual round of breakfasts, dinners, balls--court
balls--bal masqu--bal de l'opera--plays--grand entertainments--petits
soupers--ftes at Versailles--pleasure in every possible form and variety
of luxury and extravagance succeeded day after day, and night after night--
and Ormond, le bel Irlandois, once in fashion, was every where, and every
where admired; flattered by the women, who wished to draw him in to be
their partners at play--still more flattered by those who wished to engage
him as a lover--most of all flattered by Dora. he felt his danger. Improved
in coquetry by Parisian practice and power, Dora tried her utmost skill--
she played off with great dexterity her various admirers to excite his
jealousy: the Marquis de Beaulieu, the witty marquis, and the Count de
Belle Chasse, the irresistible count, were dangerous rivals. She succeeded
in exciting Ormond's jealousy; but in his noble mind there were strong
opposing principles to withstand his selfish gratification. It was
surprising with what politeness to each other, with how little love, all
the suitors carried on this game of gallantry and competition of vanity.

Till Ormond appeared, it had been the general opinion that before the end
of the winter or the spring, the Count de Belle Chasse would be triumphant.
Why Ormond did not enter the lists, when there appeared to all the judges
such a chance of his winning the prize, seemed incomprehensible to the
spectators, and still more to the rival candidates. Some settled it with
the exclamation "Inou!" Others pronounced that it was English bizarrerie.
Every thing seemed to smooth the slippery path of temptation--the
indifference of her husband--the imprudence--of her aunt, and the sophistry
of Madame de Clairville--the general customs of French society--the
peculiar profligacy of the society into which he happened to be thrown--the
opinion which he saw prevailed, that if he withdrew from the competition a
rival would immediately profit by his forbearance, conspired to weaken his
resolution.

Many accidental circumstances concurred to increase the danger. At these
balls, to which he went originally to avoid Dora in smaller parties, Madame
de Connal, though she constantly appeared, seldom danced. She did not dance
well enough to bear comparison with French dancers; Ormond was in the same
situation. The dancing which was very well in England would not do in
Paris--no late lessons could, by any art, bring them to an equality with
French nature.

"Ah, il ne danse pas!--He dances like an Englishman." At the first ball
this comforted the suitors, and most the Comte de Belle Chasse; but this
very circumstance drew Ormond and Dora closer together--she pretended
headaches, and languor, and lassitude, and, in short, sat still.

But it was not to be expected that the Comte de Belle Chasse could give up
dancing: the Comte de Belle Chasse danced like le dieu de la danse, another
Vestris; he danced every night, and Ormond sat and talked to Dora, for it
was his duty to attend Madame when the little Abb was out of the way.

The spring was now appearing, and the spring is delightful in Paris, and
the _promenades_ in the Champs Elyses, and in the Bois de Boulogne, and
the promenade in Long-Champ, commenced. Riding was just coming into high
fashion with the French ladies; and, instead of riding in men's clothes,
and like a man, it was now the ambition de monter  cheval  l'Angloise: to
ride on a side-saddle and in an English riding habit was now the ambition.
Now Dora, though she could not dance as well, could ride better than any
French woman; and she was ambitious to show herself and her horsemanship in
the Bois de Boulogne: but she had no horse that she liked. Le Comte de
Belle Chasse offered to get one broke for her at the king's riding-house--
this she refused: but fortunately Ormond, as was the custom with the
English at that time, had, after his arrival, some English horses brought
over to him at Paris. Among these was the horse he had once broke for Dora.

For this an English side-saddle was procured--she was properly equipped and
mounted.

And the two friends, le bel Irlandois, as they persisted in calling Ormond,
and la belle Irlandoise, and their horses, and their horsemanship, were the
admiration of the promenade.

The Comte de Belle Chasse sent to London for an English horse at any price.
He was out of humour--and Ormond in the finest humour imaginable. Dora was
grateful; her horse was a beautiful, gentle-spirited creature: it was
called Harry--it was frequently patted and caressed, and told how much it
was valued and loved.

Ormond was now in great danger, because he felt himself secure that he was
only a friend--_l'ami de la maison_.



CHAPTER XXIX.

There was a picture of Dagote's which was at this moment an object of
fashionable curiosity in Paris. It was a representation of one of the many
charitable actions of the unfortunate Marie Antoinette, "then Dauphiness--
at that time full of life, and splendour, and joy, adorning and cheering
the elevated sphere she just began to move in;" and yet diffusing life, and
hope, and joy, in that lower sphere, to which the radiance of the great and
happy seldom reaches. The Dauphiness was at that time the pride of France,
and the darling of Paris; not only worshipped by the court, but loved by
the people. While she was Dauphiness, and during the commencement of her
reign, every thing, even disastrous accidents, and the rigour of the
season, served to give her fresh opportunity of winning the affection and
exciting the enthusiasm of the people. When, during the festivities on her
marriage, hundreds were crushed to death by the fall of a temporary
building, the sensibility of the Dauphiness, the eagerness with which she
sent all her money to the lieutenant de police for the families of those
who had perished, conciliated the people, and turned even the evil presage
to good. Again, during a severe frost, her munificence to the suffering
poor excited such gratitude, that the people erected to her honour a vast
pyramid of snow--Frail memorial!--"These marks of respect were almost as
transitory as the snowy pyramid."

Ormond went with Mademoiselle O'Faley one morning to see the picture of the
Dauphiness; and he had now an opportunity of seeing a display of French
sensibility, that eagerness to feel and to excite _a sensation_; that
desire to _produce an effect_, to have a scene; that half real, half
theatric enthusiasm, by which the French character is peculiarly
distinguished from the English. He was perfectly astonished by the quantity
of exclamations he heard at the sight of this picture; the lifting up of
hands and eyes, the transports, the ecstasies, the tears--the actual tears
that he saw streaming in despite of rouge. It was real! and it was not real
feeling! Of one thing he was clear--that this superfluity of feeling or
exaggeration of expression completely silenced him, and made him cold
indeed: like one unskilled or dumb he seemed to stand.

"But are you of marble?" cried Mademoiselle--"where is your sensibilit
then?"

"I hope it is safe at the bottom of my heart," said Ormond; "but when it is
called for, I cannot always find it--especially on these public occasions."

"Ah! but what good all the sensibilit in the world do at the bottom of
your heart, where nobody see it? It is on these public occasions too, you
must always contrive and find it quick at Paris, or after all you will seem
but an Englishman."

"I must be content to seem and to be what I am," said Ormond, in a tone of
playful but determined resignation.

"Bon!" said a voice near him. Mademoiselle went off in impatience to find
some better auditor--she did not hear the "_Bon_."

Ormond turned, and saw near him a gentleman, whom he had often met at some
of the first houses in Paris--the Abb Morellet, then respected as the most
_reasonable_ of all the wits of France, and who has since, through all the
trying scenes of the revolution, through the varieties of unprincipled
change, preserved unaltered the integrity and frankness of his character;
retaining even to his eighty-seventh year all his characteristic warmth of
heart and clearness of understanding--_le doyen de la littrature
Franoise_--the love, respect, and admiration, of every honest heart in
France. May he live to receive among all the other tributes, which his
countrymen pay publicly and privately to his merit, this record of the
impression his kindness left on grateful English hearts!

Our young hero had often desired to be acquainted with the Abb; but the
Abb had really hitherto passed him over as a mere young man of fashion, a
mere Milord Anglois, one of the ephemeral race, who appear in Parisian
society, vanish, and leave no trace behind. But now he did him the honour
to enter into conversation with him. The Abb peculiarly disliked all
affectation of sentiment and exaggeration: they were revolting to his good
sense, good taste, and feeling. Ormond won directly his good opinion and
good-will, by having insisted upon it to Mademoiselle, that he would not
for the sake of fashion or effect pretend to feel more than he really did.

"Bah!" said the Abb, "hear all those women now and all those men--they do
not know what they are saying--they make me sick. And, besides, I am afraid
these flattering courtiers will do no good to our young Dauphiness, on whom
so much of the future happiness or misery of France will depend. Her heart
is excellent, and they tell me she announces a strong character; but what
head of a young beauty and a young Queen will be able to withstand
perpetual flattery? They will lead her wrong, and then will be the first to
desert her--trust me, I know Paris. All this might change as quickly as the
turn of a weathercock; but I will not trouble you with forebodings perhaps
never to be realized. You see Paris, Monsieur, at a fortunate time,"
continued he; "society is now more agreeable, has more freedom, more life
and variety, than at any other period that I can remember."

Ormond replied by a just compliment to the men of letters, who at this
period added so much to the brilliancy and pleasure of Parisian society.

"But you have seen nothing of our men of literature, have you?" said the
Abb.

"Much less than I wish. I meet them frequently in society, but as,
unluckily, I have no pretensions to their notice, I can only catch a little
of their conversation, when I am fortunate enough to be near them."

"Yes," said the Abb, with his peculiar look and tone of good-natured
irony, "between the pretty things you are saying and hearing from--Fear
nothing, I am not going to name any _one_, but--every pretty woman in
company. I grant you it must be difficult to hear reason in such a
situation--as difficult almost as in the midst of the din of all the
passions at the faro-table. I observe, however, that you play with
astonishing coolness--there is something still--wanting. Excuse me--but you
interest me, monsieur; the determination not to play at all--

"Beyond a certain sum I have resolved never to play," said Ormond.

"Ah! but the appetite grows--l'appetit vient en mangeant--the danger is in
acquiring the taste--excuse me if I speak too freely."

"Not at all--you cannot oblige me more. But there is no danger of my
acquiring a taste for play, because I am determined to lose."

"Bon!" said the Abb; "that is the most singular determination I ever
heard: explain that to me, then, Monsieur."

"I have determined to lose a certain sum--suppose five hundred guineas. I
have won and lost backwards and forwards, and have been longer about it
than you would conceive to be probable; but it is not lost yet. The moment
it is, I shall stop short. By this means I have acquired all the advantages
of yielding to the fashionable madness, without risking my future
happiness."

The Abb was pleased with the idea, and with the frankness and firmness of
our young hero.

"Really, Monsieur," said he, "you must have a strong head--you, le bel
Irlandois--to have prevented it from being turned with all the flattery you
have received in Paris. There is nothing which gets into the head--worse
still, into the heart,--so soon, so dangerously, as the flattery of pretty
women. And yet I declare you seem wonderfully sober, considering."

"Ne jurez pas," said Ormond; "but at least in one respect I have not quite
lost my senses; I know the value and feel the want of a safe, good guide in
Paris: if I dared to ask such a favour, I should, since he has expressed
some interest for me, beg to be permitted to cultivate the acquaintance of
M. l'Abb Morellet."

"Ah a--now my head will turn, for no head can stand the dose of flattery
that happens to suit the taste. I am particularly flattered by the idea of
being a safe, good friend; and frankly, if I can be of any service to you,
I will. Is there any thing I can do for you?"

Ormond thanked him, and told him that it was his great ambition to become
acquainted with the celebrated men of literature in Paris--he said he
should feel extremely obliged if M. Morellet would take occasion to
introduce him to any of them they might meet in society.

"We must do better for you," said the abb--"we must show you our men of
letters." He concluded by begging Ormond to name a day when he could do him
the honour to breakfast with him. "I will promise you Marmontel, at least;
for he is just going to be married to my niece, and of him we shall be
secure: as to the rest I will promise nothing, but do as much as I can."

The men of letters about this period in Paris, as the Abb explained to
Ormond, began to feel their own power and consequence, and had assumed a
tone of independence, as yet tempered with due respect for rank. Many of
them lived or were connected with men of rank, by places about the court,
by secretaryships and pensions, obtained through court influence. Some were
attached by early friendship to certain great families; had apartments to
themselves in their hotels, where they received what friends they pleased;
and, in short, lived as if they were at home. Their company was much sought
for by the great; and they enjoyed good houses, good tables, carriages, all
the conveniences of life, and all the luxuries of the rich, without the
trouble of an establishment. Their mornings were their own, usually
employed in study; and the rest of the day they gave themselves to society.
The most agreeable period of French literary society was, perhaps, while
this state of things lasted.

The Abb Morellet's breakfast was very agreeable; and Ormond saw at his
house what had been promised him, many of the literary men at Paris.
Voltaire was not then in France; and Rousseau, who was always quarrelling
with somebody, and generally with every body, could not be prevailed upon
to go to this breakfast. Ormond was assured that he lost nothing by not
seeing him, or by not hearing his conversation, for that it was by no means
equal to his writings; his temper was so susceptible and wayward, that he
was not fit for society--neither capable of enjoying, nor of adding to its
pleasures. Ormond heard, perhaps, more of Rousseau and Voltaire, and learnt
more of their characters, by the anecdotes that were related, and the
bon-mots that were repeated, than he could have done if they had been
present. There was great variety of different characters and talents at
this breakfast; and the Abb amused himself by making his young friend
guess who the people were, before he told their names. It was happy for
Ormond that he was acquainted with some of their writings (this he owed to
Lady Annaly's well-chosen present of French books). He was fortunate in his
first guess--Marivaux's conversation was so like the style of his writings,
so full of hair-breadth distinctions, subtle exceptions, and metaphysical
refinement and digressions, that Ormond soon guessed him, and was applauded
for his quickness. Marmontel he discovered, by his being the only man in
the room who had not mentioned to him any of "Les Contes Moraux." But there
was one person who set all his skill at defiance: he pronounced that he was
no author--that he was l'ami de la maison: he was so indeed wherever he
went--but he was both a man of literature, and a man of deep science--no
less a person than the great D'Alembert. Ormond thought D'Alembert and
Marmontel were the two most agreeable men in company. D'Alembert was
simple, open-hearted, unpresuming, and cheerful in society. Far from being
subject to that absence of mind with which profound mathematicians are
sometimes reproached, D'Alembert was present to every thing that was going
forward--every trifle he enjoyed with the zest of youth, and the
playfulness of childhood. Ormond confessed that he should never have
guessed that he was a great mathematician and profound calculator.

Marmontel was distinguished for combining in his conversation, as in his
character, two qualities for which there are no precise English words,
_navet_ and _finesse_. Whoever is acquainted with Marmontel's writings
must have a perfect knowledge of what is meant by both.

It was fortunate for our young hero that Marmontel was, at this time, no
longer the dissipated man he had been during too great a period of his
life. He had now returned to his early tastes for simple pleasures and
domestic virtues--had formed that attachment which afterwards made the
happiness of his life: he was just going to be married to the amiable
Mdlle. Montigny, a niece of the Abb Morellet. She and her excellent mother
lived with him; and Ormond was most agreeably surprised and touched at the
unexpected sight of an amiable, united, happy family, when he had expected
only a meeting of literati.

The sight of this domestic happiness reminded him of the Annalys--brought
the image of Florence to his mind. If she had been but sincere, how he
should have preferred her to all he had seen!

It came upon him just at the right moment. It contrasted with all the
dissipation he had seen, and it struck him the more strongly, because it
could not possibly have been prepared as a moral lesson to make an
impression. He saw the real, natural course of things--he heard in a few
hours the result of the experience of a man of great vivacity, great
talents, who had led a life of pleasure, and who had had opportunities of
seeing and feeling all that it could possibly afford, at the period of the
greatest luxury and dissipation ever known in France. No evidence could be
stronger than Marmontel's in favour of virtue and of domestic life, nor
could any one express it with more grace and persuasive eloquence.

It did Ormond infinite good. He required such a lesson at this juncture,
and he was capable of taking it--it recalled him to his better self.

The good Abb seemed to see something of what in Ormond's mind, and became
still more interested about him.

"Ah, a," said he to Marmontel, as soon as Ormond was gone, "that young man
is worth something: I thought he was only _le bel Irlandois_, but I find he
is much more. We must do what we can for him, and not let him leave Paris,
as so many do, having seen only the worst part of our society."

Marmontel, who had also been pleased with him, was willing, he said, to do
any thing in his power; but he could scarcely hope that they had the means
of withdrawing from the double attraction of the faro-table and coquetry, a
young man of that age and figure.

"Fear nothing, or rather hope every thing," said the Abb: "his head and
his heart are more in our favour, trust me, than his age and his figure are
against us. To begin, my good Marmontel, did not you see how much he was
struck and _edified_ by your reformation?"

"Ah! if there was another Mdlle. de Montigny for him, I should fear
nothing, or rather hope every thing," said Marmontel "but where shall he
find such another in all Paris?"

"In his own country, perhaps, all in good time," said the Abb.

"In his own country?--True," cried Marmontel, "now you recall it to my
mind, how eager he grew in disputing with Marivaux upon the distinction
between _aimable_ and _amiable_. His description of an _amiable woman_,
according to the English taste, was, I recollect, made _con amore_; and
there was a sigh at the close which came from the heart, and which showed
the heart was in England or Ireland."

"Wherever his heart is, _c'est bien plac_," said the Abb. "I like him--
we must get him into good company--he is worthy to be acquainted with your
amiable and _aimable_ Madame de Beauveau and Madame de Seran."

"True," said Marmontel; "and for the honour of Paris, we must convince him
that he has taken up false notions, and that there is such a thing as
conjugal fidelity and domestic happiness here."

"Bon. That is peculiarly incumbent on the author of _Les Contes Moraux_,"
said the Abb.

It happened, fortunately for our hero, that Madame de Connal was, about
this time, engaged to pass a fortnight at the country house of Madame de
Clairville. During her absence, the good Abb had time to put in execution
all his benevolent intentions, and introduced his young friend to some of
the really good company of Paris. He pointed out to him at Madame
Geoffrin's, Madame de Tencin's, Madame du Detfand's, and Madame Trudaine's,
the difference between the society at the house of a rich farmer general--
or at the house of one connected with the court, and with people in place
and political power--and the society of mixed rank and literature. The mere
passing pictures of these things, to one who was not to live in Paris,
might not, perhaps, except as a matter of curiosity, be of much value; but
his judicious friend led Ormond from these to make comparisons and
deductions which were of use to him all his life afterwards.



CHAPTER XXX.

One morning when Ormond awoke, the first thing he heard was, that a
_person_ from Ireland was below, who was very impatient to see him. It was
Patrickson, Sir Ulick O'Shane's confidential man of business.

"What news from Castle Hermitage?" cried Ormond, starting up in his bed,
surprised at the sight of Patrickson.

"The best that can be--never saw Sir Ulick in such heart--he has a share of
the loan, and--"

"And what news of the Annalys?" interrupted Ormond.

"I know nothing about them at all, sir," said Patrickson, who was a
methodical man of business, and whose head was always intent upon what he
called the main chance. "I have been in Dublin, and heard no country news."

"But have you no letter for me? and what brings you over so suddenly to
Paris?"

"I have a letter for you somewhere here, sir--only I have so many 'tis hard
to find," said Patrickson, looking carefully over a parcel of letters in
his pocket-book, but with such a drawling slowness of manner as put Ormond
quite out of patience. Patrickson laid the letters on the bed one by one.
"That's not it--and that's not it; that's for Monsieur un tel, marchand,
rue ----; that packet's from the Hamburgh merchants--What brings me over?--
Why, sir, I have business enough, Heaven knows!"

Patrickson was employed not only by Sir Ulick O'Shane, but by many Dublin
merchants and bankers, to settle business for them with different houses on
the continent. Ormond, without listening to the various digressions he made
concerning the persons of mercantile consequence to whom the letters were
addressed, or from whom they were answers, pounced upon the letter in Sir
Ulick's handwriting directed to himself, and tore it open eagerly, to see
if there was any news of the Annalys. None--they were in Devonshire. The
letter was merely a few lines on business--Sir Ulick had now the
opportunity he had foreseen of laying out Ormond's money in the loan most
advantageously for him; but there had been an omission in the drawing up of
his power of attorney, which had been done in such a hurry on Ormond's
leaving home. It gave power only to sell out of the Three per Cents.;
whereas much of Ormond's money was in the Four per Cents. Another power,
Patrickson said, was necessary, and he had brought one for him to sign.
Patrickson in his slow manner descanted upon the folly of signing papers in
a hurry, just when people were getting into carriages, which was always the
way with young gentlemen, he said. He took care that Ormond should do
nothing in a hurry now; for he put on his spectacles, and read the power,
sparing him not a syllable of the law forms and repetitions. Ormond wrote a
few kind lines to Sir Ulick, and earnestly besought him to find out
something more about the Annalys. If Miss Annaly were married, it must have
appeared in the papers. What delayed the marriage? Was Colonel Albemarle
dismissed or accepted?--Where was he?--Ormond said he would be content if
Sir Ulick could obtain an answer to that single plain question.

All the time Ormond was writing, Patrickson never stirred his forefinger
from the spot where the signature was to be written at the bottom of the
power of attorney.

"Pray," said Ormond, looking up from the paper he going to sign, "pray,
Patrickson, are you really and truly an Irishman?"

"By the father's side, I apprehend, sir--but my mother was English. Stay,
sir, if you please--I must witness it."

"Witness away," said Ormond; and after having signed this paper, empowering
Sir Ulick to sell 30,000_l_. out of the Four per cents., Ormond lay down,
and wishing him a good journey, settled himself to sleep; while Patrickson,
packing up his papers, deliberately said, "He hoped to be in London _in
short_; but that he should go by Havre de Grace, and that he should be
happy to execute any commands for Mr. Ormond there or in Dublin." More he
would have said, but finding Ormond by this time past reply, he left the
room on tiptoe. The next morning Madame de Connal returned from the
country, and sent Ormond word that she should expect him at her assembly
that night.

Every body complimented Madame de Connal upon the improvement which the
country air had made in her beauty--even her husband was struck with it,
and paid her his compliments on the occasion; but she stood conversing so
long with Ormond, that the faro-players grew impatient: she led him to the
table, but evidently had little interest herself in the game. He played at
first with more than his usual success, but late at night his fortune
suddenly changed; he lost--lost--till at last he stopped, and rising from
table, said he had no more money, and he could play no longer. Connal, who
was not one of the players, but merely looking on, offered to lend him any
sum he pleased. "Here's a rouleau--here are two rouleaus--what will you
have?" said Connal.

Ormond declined playing any more: he said that he had lost the sum he had
resolved to lose, and there he would stop. Connal did not urge him, but
laughing said, that a resolution to _lose_ at play was the most
extraordinary he had ever heard.

"And yet you see I have kept it," said Ormond.

"Then I hope you will next make a resolution to win," said Connal, "and no
doubt you will keep that as well--I prophesy that you will; and you will
give fortune fair play to-morrow night." Ormond simply repeated that he
should play no more. Madame de Connal soon afterwards rose from the table,
and went to talk to Mr. Ormond. She said she was concerned for his loss at
play this night. He answered, as he felt, that it was a matter of no
consequence to him--that he had done exactly what he had determined; that
in the course of the whole time he had been losing this money he had had a
great deal of amusement in society, had seen a vast deal of human nature
and manners, which he could not otherwise have seen, and that he thought
his money exceedingly well employed.

"But you shall not lose your money," said Dora; "when next you play it
shall be on my account as well as your own--you know this is not only a
compliment, but a solid advantage. The bank has certain advantages--and it
is fair that you should share them. I must explain to you," continued
Madame de Connal--"they are all busy about their own affairs, and we may
speak in English at our ease--I must explain to you, that a good portion of
my fortune has been settled, so as to be at my own disposal--my aunt, you
know, has also a good fortune--we are partners, and put a considerable sum
into the faro bank. We find it answers well. You see how handsomely we
live. M. de Connal has his own share. We have nothing to do with _that_. If
you would take my advice," continued she, speaking in a very persuasive
tone, "instead of forswearing play, as you seem inclined to do at the first
reverse of fortune, you would join forces with us; you cannot imagine that
_I_ would advise you to any thing which I was not persuaded would be
advantageous to you--you little know how much I am interested." She checked
herself, blushed, hesitated, and hurried on--"you have no ties in Ireland--
you seem to like Paris--where can you spend your time more agreeably?"

"More agreeably--nowhere upon earth!" cried Ormond. Her manner, tone, and
look, at this moment were so flattering, so bewitching, that he was
scarcely master of himself. They went to the boudoir--the company had
risen from the faro-table, and, one after another, had most of them
departed. Connal was gone--only a few remained in a distant apartment,
listening to some music. It was late. Ormond had never till this evening
stayed later than the generality of the company, but he had now an excuse
to himself, something that he had long wished to have an opportunity of
saying to Dora, when she should be quite alone; it was a word of advice
about le Comte de Belle Chasse--her intimacy with him was beginning to be
talked of. She had been invited to a bal par at the Spanish ambassador's
for the ensuing night--but she had more inclination to go to a bal masqu,
as Ormond had heard her declare. Now certain persons had whispered that it
was to meet the Comte de Belle Chasse that she intended to go to this ball;
and Ormond feared that such whispers might be injurious to her reputation.
It was difficult to him to speak, because the counsels of the friend might
be mistaken for the jealous fears of a lover. With some embarrassment he
delicately, timidly, hinted his apprehensions.

Dora, though naturally of a temper apt to take alarm at the touch of blame,
and offence at the tone of advice, now in the most graceful manner thanked
her friend for his counsel; said she was flattered, gratified, by the
interest it showed in her happiness--and she immediately yielded her will,
her _fantaisie_, to his better judgment. This compliance, and the look with
which it was accompanied, convinced him of the absolute power he possessed
over her heart. He was enchanted with Dora--she never looked so beautiful;
never before, not even in the first days of his early youth, had he felt
her beauty so attractive.

"Dear Madame de Connal, dear Dora!" he exclaimed.

"Call me Dora," said she: "I wish ever to be Dora to Harry Ormond. Oh!
Harry, my first, my best, my only friend, I have enjoyed but little real
happiness since we parted."

Tears filled her fine eyes--no longer knowing where he was, Harry Ormond
found himself at her feet. But while he held and kissed in transport the
beautiful hand, which was but feebly withdrawn, he seemed to be suddenly
shocked by the sight of one of the rings on her finger.

"My wedding-ring," said Dora, with a sigh. "Unfortunate marriage!"

That was not the ring on which Ormond's eyes were fixed.

"Dora, whose gray hair is this?"

"My father's," said Dora, in a tremulous voice.

"Your father!" cried Ormond, starting up. The full recollection of that
fond father, that generous benefactor, that confiding friend, rushed upon
his heart.

"And is this the return I make!--Oh, if he could see us at this instant!"

"And if he could," cried Dora, "oh! how he would admire and love you,
Ormond, and how he would--"

Her voice failed, and with a sudden motion she hid her face with both her
hands.

"He would see you, Dora, without a guide, protector, or friend; surrounded
with admirers, among profligate men, and women still more profligate, yet
he would see that you have preserved a reputation of which your father
would be proud."

"My father! oh, my poor father!" cried Dora: "Oh! generous, dear, ever
generous Ormond!"

Bursting into tears--alternate passions seizing her--at one moment the
thoughts of her father, the next of her lover, possessed her imagination.

At this instant the noise of some one approaching recalled them both to
their senses. They were found in earnest conversation about a party of
pleasure that was to be arranged for the next day. Madame de Connal made
Ormond promise that he would come the next morning, and settle every thing
with M. de Connal for their intended expedition into the country.

The next day, as Ormond was returning to Madame de Connal's, with the firm
intention of adhering to the honourable line of conduct he had traced out
for himself, just as he was crossing the Pont Neuf, some one ran full
against him. Surprised at what happens so seldom in the streets of Paris,
where all meet, pass, or cross, in crowds with magical celerity and
address, he looked back, and at the same instant the person who had passed
looked back also. An apparition in broad daylight could not have surprised
Ormond more than the sight of this person. "Could it be--could it possibly
be Moriarty Carroll, on the Pont Neuf in Paris?"

"By the blessing, then, it's the man himself--Master Harry!--though I
didn't know him through the French disguise. Oh! master, then, I've been
tried and cast, and all but hanged--sentenced to Botany--transported any
way--for a robbery I didn't commit--since I saw you last. But your honour's
uneasy, and it's not proper, I know, to be stopping a jantleman in the
street; but I have a word to say that will bear no delay, not a minute."

Ormond's surprise and curiosity increased--he desired Moriarty to follow
him.

"And now, Moriarty, what is it you have to say?"

"It is a long story, then, please your honour. I was transported to Botany,
though innocent. But first and foremost for what consarns your honour
first."

"First," said Ormond, "if you were transported, how came you here?"

"Because I was not transported, plase your honour--only sentenced--for I
escaped from Kilmainham, where I was sent to be put on board the tender;
but I got on board of an American ship, by the help of a friend--and this
ship being knocked against the rocks, I came safe ashore in this country on
one of the _sticks_ of the vessel: so when I knowed it was France I was in,
and recollected Miss Dora that was married in Paris, I thought if I could
just make my way any hows to Paris, she'd befriend me in case of need.

"But, dear master," said Moriarty, interrupting, "it's a folly to talk--
I'll not tell you a word more of myself till you hear the news I have for
you. The worst news I have to tell you is, there is great fear of the
breaking of Sir Ulick's bank!"

"The breaking of Sir Ulick's bank? I heard from him the day before
yesterday."

"May be you did; but the captain of the American ship in which I came was
complaining of his having been kept two hours at that bank, where they were
paying large sums in small notes, and where there was the greatest run upon
the house that ever was seen."

Ormond instantly saw his danger--he recollected the power of attorney he
had signed two days before. But Patrickson was to go by Havre de Grace--
that would delay him. It was possible that Ormond by setting out instantly
might get to London time enough to save his property. He went directly and
ordered post horses. He had no debts in Paris, nothing to pay, but for his
stables and lodging. He had a faithful servant, whom he could leave behind,
to make all necessary arrangements.

"You are right, jewel, to be in a hurry," said Carroll. "But sure you won't
leave poor Moriarty behind ye here in distress, when he has no friend in
the wide world but yourself?"

"Tell me, in the first place, Moriarty, are you innocent?"

"Upon my conscience, master, I am perfectly innocent as the child unborn,
both of the murder and the robbery. If your honour will give me leave, I'll
tell you the whole story."

"That will be a long affair, Moriarty, _if you talk out of the face_, as
you used to do. I will, however, find an opportunity to hear it all. But,
in the meantime, stay where you are till I return."

Ormond went instantly to Connal's, to inform him of what had happened. His
astonishment was obviously mixed with disappointment. But to do him
justice, besides the interest which he really had in the preservation of
the fortune, he felt some personal regard for Ormond himself.

"What shall we do without you?" said he. "I assure you, Madame and I have
never been so happy together since the first month after our marriage as we
have been since you came to Paris."

Connal was somewhat consoled by hearing Ormond say, that if he were time
enough in London to save his fortune, he proposed returning immediately to
Paris, intending to make the tour of Switzerland and Italy.

Connal had no doubt that they should yet be able to fix him at Paris.

Madame de Connal and Mademoiselle were out--Connal did not know where they
were gone. Ormond was glad to tear himself away with as few adieus as
possible. He got into his travelling carriage, put his servant on the box,
and took Moriarty with him in the carriage, that he might relate his
history at leisure.

"Plase your honour," said Moriarty, "Mr. Marcus never missed any
opportunity of showing me ill-will. The supercargo of the ship that was
cast away, when you were with Sir Herbert Annaly, God rest his soul! came
down to the sea-side to look for some of the things that he had lost: the
day after he came, early in the morning, his horse, and bridle, and saddle,
and a surtout coat, was found in a lane, near the place where we lived, and
the supercargo was never heard any more of. Suspicion fell upon many--the
country rung with the noise that was made about this murder--and at last I
was taken up for it, because people had seen me buy cattle at the fair, and
the people would not believe it was with money your honour sent me by the
good parson--for the parson was gone out of the country, and I had nobody
to stand my friend; for Mr. Marcus was on the grand jury, and the sheriff
was his friend, and Sir Ulick was in Dublin, at the bank. Howsomdever,
after a long trial, which lasted the whole day, a 'cute lawyer on my side
found out that there was no proof that any body had been murdered, and that
a man might lose his horse, his saddle, and his bridle, and his big coat,
without being kilt: so that the judge ordered the jury to let me off for
the murder. They then tried me for the robbery; and sure enough that went
again me: for a pair of silver-mounted pistols, with the man's name
engraved upon them, was found in my house. They knew the man's name by the
letters in the big coat. The judge asked me what I had to say for myself:
'My lard,' says I, 'those pistols were brought into my house about a
fortnight ago, by a little boy, one little Tommy Dunshaughlin, who found
them in a punk-horn, at the edge of a bog-hole.'

"The jidge favoured me more than the jury--for he asked how old the boy
was, and whether I could produce him? The little fellow was brought into
court, and it was surprising how clear he told his story. The jidge
listened to the child, young as he was. But M'Crule was on the jury, and
said that he knew the child to be as cunning as any in Ireland, and that he
would not believe a word that came out of his mouth. So the short and the
long of it was, I was condemned to be transported.

"It would have done you good, if you'd heard the cry in the court when
sentence was given, for I was loved in the country. Poor Peggy and
Sheelah!--But I'll not be troubling your honour's tender heart with our
parting. I was transmuted to Dublin, to be put on board the tender, and
lodged in Kilmainham, waiting for the ship that was to go to Botany. I had
not been long there, when another prisoner was brought to the same room
with me. He was a handsome-looking man, about thirty years of age, of the
most penetrating eye and determined countenance that I ever saw. He
appeared to be worn down with ill-health, and his limbs much swelled:
notwithstanding which, he had strong handcuffs on his wrists, and he seemed
to be guarded with uncommon care. He begged the turnkey to lay him down
upon the miserable iron bed that was in the cell; and he begged him, for
God's sake, to let him have a jug of water by his bedside, and to leave him
to his fate.

"I could not help pitying this poor cratur; I went to him, and offered him
any assistance in my power. He answered me shortly, 'What are you here
for?'--I told him. 'Well,' says he, 'whether you are guilty or not, is your
affair, not mine; but answer me at once--are you a _good man_?--Can you go
through with a thing?--and are you steel to the back-bone?'--'I am,' said
I. 'Then,' said he, 'you are a lucky man--for he that is talking to you is
Michael Dunne, who knows how to make his way out of any jail in Ireland.'
Saying this, he sprung with great activity from the bed. 'It is my cue,'
said he, 'to be sick and weak, whenever the turnkey comes in, to put him
off his guard--for they have all orders to watch me strictly; because as
how, do you see, I broke out of the jail of Trim; and when they catched me,
they took me before his honour the police magistrate, who did all he could
to get out of me the way which I made my escape.' 'Well,' says the
magistrate, 'I'll put you in a place where you can't get out--till you're
sent to 'Botany.' 'Plase your worship,' says I, 'if there's no offence in
saying it, there's no such place in Ireland.'--'No such place as what?' 'No
such place as will hold Michael Dunne.'--'What do you think of Kilmainbam?'
says he. 'I think it's a fine jail--and it will be no asy matter to get
out of it--but it is not impossible.'--'Well, Mr. Dunne,' said the
magistrate, 'I have heard of your fame, and that you have secrets of your
own for getting out. Now, if you'll tell me how you got out of the jail of
Trim, I'll make your confinement at Kilmainham as asy as may be, so as to
keep you safe; and if you do not, you must be ironed, and I will have
sentinels from an English regiment, who shall be continually changed: so
that you can't get any of them to help you.'--'Plase your worship,' said
Dunne, 'that's very hard usage; but I know as how that you are going to
build new jails all over Ireland, and that you'd be glad to know the best
way to make them secure. If your worship will promise me that if I get out
of Kilmainham, and if I tell you how I do it, then you'll get me a free
pardon, I'll try hard but what before three months are over I'll be a
prisoner at large.'--'That's more than I can promise you,' said the
magistrate; 'but if you will disclose to me the best means of keeping other
people in, I will endeavour to keep you from Botany Bay.'--'Now, sir,' says
Dunne, 'I know your worship to be a man of honour, and that your own honour
regards yourself, and not me; so that if I was ten times as bad as I am,
you'd keep your promise with me, as well as if I was the best gentleman in
Ireland. So that now, Mr. Moriarty,' said Dunne, 'do you see, if I get out,
I shall be safe; and if you get out along with me, you have nothing to do
but to go over to America. And if you are a married man, and tired of your
wife, you'll get rid of her. If you are not tired of her, and you have any
substance, she may sell it and follow you.'

"There was something, Master Harry, about the man that made me have great
confidence in him--and I was ready to follow his advice. Whenever the
turnkey was coming he was groaning and moaning on the bed. At other times
he made me keep bathing his wrists with cold water, so that in three or
four days they were not half the size they were at first. This change he
kept carefully from the jailor. I observed that he frequently asked what
day of the month it was, but that he never made any attempt to speak to the
sentinels; nor did he seem to make any preparation, or to lay any scheme
for getting out. I held my tongue, and waited qui'tely. At last, he took
out of his pocket a little flageolet, and began to play upon it. He asked
me if I could play: I said I could a little, but very badly. 'I don't care
how bad it is, if you can play at all.' He got off the bed where he was
lying, and with the utmost ease pulled his hands out of his handcuffs.
Besides the swelling of his wrists having gone down, he had some method of
getting rid of his thumb that I never could understand. Says I, 'Mr. Dunne,
the jailor will miss the fetters,'--'No,' said he, 'for I will put them on
again;' and so he did, with great ease. 'Now,' said he, 'it is time to
begin our work.'

"He took off one of his shoes, and taking out the in-sole, he showed me a
hole, that was cut where the heel was, in which there was a little small
flat bottle, which he told me was the most precious thing in life. And
under the rest of the sole there were a number of saws, made of watch
spring, that lay quite flat and snug under his foot. The next time the
turnkey came in, he begged, for the love of God, to have a pipe and some
tobacco, which was accordingly granted to him. What the pipes and tobacco
were for, I could not then guess, but they were found to be useful. He now
made a paste of some of the bread of his allowance, with which he made a
cup round the bottom of one of the bars of the window; into this cup he
poured some of the contents of the little bottle, which was, I believe, oil
of vitriol: in a little time, this made a bad smell, and it was then I
found the use of the pipe and tobacco, for the smell of the tobacco quite
bothered the smell of the vitriol. When he thought he had softened the iron
bar sufficiently, he began to work away with the saws, and he soon taught
me how to use them; so that we kept working on continually, no matter how
little we did at a time; but as we were constantly at it, what I thought
never could be done was finished in three or four days. The use of the
flageolet was to drown the noise of the filing; for when one filed, the
other piped.

"When the bar was cut through, he fitted the parts nicely together, and
covered them over with rust. He proceeded in the same manner to cut out
another bar; so that we had a free opening out of the window. Our cell was
at the very top of the jail, so that even to look down to the ground was
terrible.

"Under various pretences, we had got an unusual quantity of blankets on our
beds; these he examined with the utmost care, as upon their strength our
lives were to depend. We calculated with great coolness the breadth of the
strips into which he might cut the blankets, so as to reach from the window
to the ground; allowing for the knots by which they were to be joined, and
for other knots that were to hinder the hands and feet from slipping.

"'Now,' said he, 'Mr. Moriarty, all this is quite asy, and requires nothing
but a determined heart and a sound head: but the difficulty is to baffle
the sentinel that is below, and who is walking backward and forward
continually, day and night, under the window; and there is another, you
see, in a sentry-box, at the door of the yard: and, for all I know, there
may be another sentinel at the other side of the wall. Now these men are
never twice on the same duty: I have friends enough out of doors, who have
money enough, and would have talked reason to them; but as these sentinels
are changed every day, no good can be got of _them_: but stay till
to-morrow night, and we'll try what we can do.'

"I was determined to follow him. The next night, the moment that we were
locked in for the night, we set to work to cut the blankets into slips, and
tied them together with great care. We put this rope round one of the fixed
bars of the window; and, pulling at each knot, we satisfied ourselves that
every part was sufficiently strong. Dunne looked frequently out of the
window with the utmost anxiety--it was a moonlight night.

"'The moon,' said he, 'will be down in an hour and a half.'

"In a little while we heard the noise of several girls singing at a
distance from the windows, and we could see, as they approached, that they
were dancing, and making free with the sentinels: I saw that they were
provided with bottles of spirits, with which they pledged the deluded
soldiers. By degrees the sentinels forgot their duty; and, by the
assistance of some laudanum contained in some of the spirits, they were
left senseless on the ground. The whole of this plan, and the very night
and hour, had been arranged by Dunne with his associates, before he was put
into Kilmainham. The success of this scheme, which was totally unexpected
by me, gave me, I suppose, plase your honour, fresh courage. He, very
honourably, gave me the choice to go down first or to follow him. I was
ashamed not to go first: after I had got out of the window, and had fairly
hold of the rope, my fear diminished, and I went cautiously down to the
bottom. Here I waited for Dunne, and we both of us silently stole along in
the dark, for the moon had gone in, and we did not meet with the least
obstruction. Our out of door's assistants had the prudence to get entirely
out of sight. Dunne led me to a hiding-place in a safe part of the town,
and committed me to the care of a seafaring man, who promised to get me on
board an American ship.

"'As for my part,' said Dunne, 'I will go in the morning, boldly, to the
magistrate, and claim his promise.'

"He did so--and the magistrate with good sense, and good faith, kept his
promise, and obtained a pardon for Dunne.

"I wrote to Peggy, to get aboard an American ship. I was cast away on the
coast of France--made my way to the first religious house that I could hear
of, where I luckily found an Irishman, who saved me from starvation, and
who sent me on from convent to convent, till I got to Paris, where your
honour met me on that bridge, just when I was looking for Miss Dora's
house. And that's all I've got to tell," concluded Moriarty, "and all
true."

No adventures of any sort happened to our hero in the course of his
journey. The wind was fair for England when he reached Calais: he had a
good passage; and with all the expedition that good horses, good roads,
good money, and civil words, ensure in England, he pursued his way; and
arrived in the shortest time possible in London.

He reached town in the morning, before the usual hour when the banks are
open. Leaving orders with his servant, on whose punctuality he could
depend, to awaken him at the proper hour, he lay down, overcome with
fatigue, and slept--yes--slept soundly.



CHAPTER XXXI.

Ormond was wakened at the proper hour--went immediately to ----'s bank.
It was but just open, and beginning to do business. He had never been there
before--his person was not known to any of the firm. He entered a long
narrow room, so dark at the entrance from the street that he could at first
scarcely see what was on either side of him--a clerk from some obscure
nook, and from a desk higher than himself, put out his head, with a long
pen behind his ear, and looked at Ormond as he came in. "Pray, sir, am I
right?--Is this Mr. ----'s bank?"

"Yes, sir."

With mercantile economy of words, and a motion of his head, the clerk
pointed out to Ormond the way he should go--and continued casting up his
books. Ormond walked down the narrow aisle, and it became light as he
advanced towards a large window at the farther end, before which three
clerks sat at a table opposite to him. A person stood with his back to
Ormond, and was speaking earnestly to one of the clerks, who leaned over
the table listening. Just as Ormond came up he heard his own name
mentioned--he recollected the voice--he recollected the back of the figure
--the very bottle-green coat--it was Patrickson--Ormond stood still behind
him, and waited to hear what was going on.

"Sir," said the clerk, "it is a very sudden order for a very large sum."

"True, sir--but you see my power--you know Mr. Ormond's handwriting, and
you know Sir Ulick O'Shane's--"

"Mr. James," said the principal clerk, turning to one of the others, "be so
good to hand me the letters we have of Mr. Ormond. As we have never seen
the gentleman sign his name, sir, it is necessary that we should be more
particular in comparing."

"Oh! sir, no doubt--compare as much as you please--no doubt people cannot
be too exact and deliberate in doing business."

"It certainly is his signature," said the clerk.

"I witnessed the paper," said Patrickson.

"Sir, I don't dispute it," replied the clerk; "but you cannot blame us for
being cautious when such a _very_ large sum is in question, and when we
have no letter of advice from the gentleman."

"But I tell you I come straight from Mr. Ormond; I saw him last Tuesday at
Paris--"

"And you see him now, sir," said Ormond, advancing.

Patrickson's countenance changed beyond all power of control.

"Mr. Ormond!--I thought you were at Paris."

"Mr. Patrickson!--I thought you were at Havre de Grace--what brought you
here so suddenly?"

"I acted for another," hesitated Patrickson: "I therefore made no delay."

"And, thank Heaven!" said Ormond, "I have acted for myself!--but just in
time!--Sir," continued he, addressing himself to the principal clerk,
"Gentlemen, I have to return you my thanks for your caution--it has
actually saved me from ruin--for I understand--"

Ormond suddenly stopped, recollecting that he might injure Sir Ulick
O'Shane essentially by a premature disclosure, or by repeating a report
which might he ill-founded.

He turned again to speak to Patrickson, but Patrickson had disappeared.

Then continuing to address himself to the clerks. "Gentlemen," said
Ormond, speaking carefully, "have you heard any thing of or from Sir Ulick
O'Shane lately, except what you may have heard from this Mr. Patrickson?"

"Not _from_ but _of_ Sir Ulick O'Shane we heard from our Dublin
correspondent--in due course we have heard," replied the head clerk. "Too
true, I am afraid, sir, that his bank had come to paying in sixpences on
Saturday."

The second clerk seeing great concern in Ormond's countenance, added, "But
Sunday, you know, is in their favour, sir; and Monday and Tuesday are
holidays: so they may stand the run, and recover yet."

With the help of this gentleman's thirty thousand, they might have
recovered, perhaps--but Mr. Ormond would scarcely have recovered it.

As to the ten thousand pounds in the Three per Cents., of which Sir Ulick
had obtained possession a month ago, that was irrecoverable, _if_ his bank
should break--"_If_."--The clerks all spoke with due caution; but their
opinion was sufficiently plain. They were honestly indignant against the
guardian who had thus attempted to ruin his ward.

Though almost stunned and breathless with the sense of the danger he had so
narrowly escaped, yet Ormond's instinct of generosity, if we may use the
expression, and his gratitude for early kindness, operated; he _would_ not
believe that Sir Ulick had been guilty of a deliberate desire to injure
him. At all events, he determined that, instead of returning to France, as
he had intended, he would go immediately to Ireland, and try if it were
possible to assist Sir Ulick, without materially injuring himself.

Having ordered horses, he made inquiry wherever he thought he might obtain
information with respect to the Annalys. All that he could learn was, that
they were at some sea-bathing place in the south of England, and that Miss
Annaly was still unmarried. A ray of hope darted into the mind of our hero
--and he began his journey to Ireland with feelings which every good and
generous mind will know how to appreciate.

He had escaped at Paris from a temptation which it was scarcely possible to
resist. He had by decision and activity preserved his fortune from ruin--he
had under his protection an humble friend, whom he had saved from
banishment and disgrace, and whom he hoped to restore to his wretched wife
and family. Forgetful of the designs that had been meditated against him by
his guardian, to whose necessities he attributed his late conduct, he
hastened to his immediate assistance; determined to do every thing in his
power to save Sir Ulick from ruin, _if_ his difficulties arose from
misfortune, and not from criminality: if, on the contrary, he should find
that Sir Ulick was fraudulently a bankrupt, he determined to quit Ireland
immediately, and to resume his scheme of foreign travel.

The system of posting had at this time been carried to the highest
perfection in England. It was the amusement and the fashion of the time, to
squander large sums in hurrying from place to place, without any immediate
motive for arriving at the end of a journey, but that of having the
satisfaction of boasting in what a short time it had been performed; or, as
it is expressed in one of our comedies, "to enter London like a meteor,
with a prodigious tail of dust."

Moriarty Carroll, who was perched upon the box with Ormond's servant, made
excellent observations wherever he went. His English companion could not
comprehend how a man of common sense could be ignorant of various things,
which excited the wonder and curiosity of Moriarty. Afterwards, however,
when they travelled in Ireland, Moriarty had as much reason to be surprised
at the impression which Irish manners and customs made upon his companion.
After a rapid journey to Holyhead, our hero found to his mortification that
the packet had sailed with a fair wind about half an hour before his
arrival.

Notwithstanding his impatience, he learned that it was impossible to
overtake the vessel in a boat, and that he must wait for the sailing of the
next day's packet.

Fortunately, however, the Lord-Lieutenant's secretary arrived from London
at Holyhead time enough for the tide; and as he had an order from the
post-office for a packet to sail whenever he should require it, the
intelligent landlord of the inn suggested to Ormond that he might probably
obtain permission from the secretary to have a berth in this packet.

Ormond's manner and address were such as to obtain from the good-natured
secretary the permission he required; and, in a short time, he found
himself out of sight of the coast of Wales. During the beginning of their
voyage the motion of the vessel was so steady, and the weather so fine,
that every body remained on deck; but on the wind shifting and becoming
more violent, the landsmen soon retired below decks, and poor Moriarty and
his English companion slunk down into the steerage, submitting to their
fate. Ormond was never sea-sick; he walked the deck, and enjoyed the
admirable manoeuvring of the vessel. Two or three naval officers, and some
other passengers, who were used to the sea, and who had quietly gone to bed
during the beginning of the voyage, now came from below, to avoid the
miseries of the cabin. As one of these gentlemen walked backwards and
forwards upon deck, he eyed our hero from time to time with looks of
anxious curiosity--Ormond perceiving this, addressed the stranger, and
inquired from him whether he had mistaken his looks, or whether he had any
wish to speak to him. "Sir," said the stranger, "I do think that I have
seen you before, and I believe that I am under considerable obligations to
you--I was supercargo to that vessel that was wrecked on the coast of
Ireland, when you and your young friend exerted yourselves to save the
vessel from plunder. After the shipwreck, the moment I found myself on
land, I hastened to the neighbouring town to obtain protection and
assistance. In the mean time, your exertions had saved a great deal of our
property, which was lodged in safety in the neighbourhood. I had procured a
horse in the town to which I had gone, and had ridden back to the shore
with the utmost expedition. Along with the vessel which had been
shipwrecked there had sailed another American sloop. We were both bound
from New York to Bourdeaux. In the morning after the shipwreck, our consort
hove in sight of the wreck, and sent a boat on shore, to inquire what had
become of the crew, and of the cargo, but they found not a human creature
on the shore, except myself. The plunderers had escaped to their hiding-
places, and all the rest of the inhabitants had accompanied the poor young
gentleman, who had fallen a sacrifice to his exertions in our favour.

"It was of the utmost consequence to my employers, that I should arrive as
soon as possible at Bourdeaux, to give an account of what had happened. I
therefore, without hesitation, abandoned my horse, with its bridle and
saddle, and I got on board the American vessel without delay. In my hurry I
forgot my great coat on the shore, a loss which proved extremely
inconvenient to me--as there were papers in the pockets which might be
necessary to produce before my employers.

"I arrived safely at Bourdeaux, settled with my principals to their
satisfaction, and I am now on my way to Ireland, to reclaim such part of my
property, and that of my employers, as was saved from the savages who
pillaged us in our distress."--This detail, which was given with great
simplicity and precision, excited considerable interest among the persons
upon the deck of the packet. Moriarty, who was pretty well recovered from
his sickness, was now summoned upon deck. Ormond confronted him with the
American supercargo, but neither of them had the least recollection of each
other. "And yet," said Ormond to the American, "though you do not know this
man, he is at this moment under sentence of transportation for having
robbed you, and he very narrowly escaped being hanged for your murder. A
fate from which he was saved by the patience and sagacity of the judge who
tried him."

Moriarty's surprise was expressed with such strange contortions of delight,
and with a tone, and in a phraseology, so peculiarly his own, as to
astonish and entertain the spectators. Among these was the Irish secretary,
who, without any application being made to him, promised Moriarty to
procure for him a free pardon.

On Ormond's landing in Dublin, the first news he heard, and it was repeated
a hundred times in a quarter of an hour, was that "Sir Ulick O'Shane was
bankrupt--that his bank shut up yesterday." It was a public calamity, a
source of private distress, that reached lower and farther than any
bankruptcy had ever done in Ireland. Ormond heard of it from every tongue,
it was written in every face--in every house it was the subject of
lamentation, of invective. In every street, poor men, with ragged notes in
their hands, were stopping to pore over the names at the back of the notes,
or hurrying to and fro, looking up at the shop-windows for "_half price
given here for O'Shane's notes_." Groups of people, of all ranks, gathered
--stopped--dispersed, talking of Sir Ulick O'Shane's bankruptcy--their
hopes--their fears--their losses--their ruin--their despair--their rage.
Some said it was all owing to Sir Ulick's shameful extravagance: "His house
in Dublin, fit for a duke!--Castle Hermitage full of company to the last
week--balls--dinners--the most expensive luxuries--scandalous!"

Others accused Sir Ulick's absurd speculations. Many pronounced the
bankruptcy to be fraudulent, and asserted that an estate had been made over
to Marcus, who would live in affluence on the ruin of the creditors.

At Sir Ulick's house in town every window-shutter was closed. Ormond rang
and knocked in vain--not that he wished to see Sir Ulick--no, he would not
have intruded on his misery for the world; but Ormond longed to inquire
from the servants how things were with him. No servant could be seen.
Ormond went to Sir Ulick's bank. Such crowds of people filled the street
that it was with the utmost difficulty and after a great working of elbows,
that in an hour or two he made his way to one of the barred windows. There
was a place where notes were handed in and _accepted_, as they called it,
by the clerks, who thus for the hour soothed and pacified the sufferers,
with the hopes that this _acceptance_ would be good, and would _stand in
stead_ at some future day. They were told that when things should come to a
settlement, all would be paid. There was property enough to satisfy the
creditors, when the _commissioners_ should look into it. Sir Ulick would
pay all honourably--as far as possible--fifteen shillings in the pound, or
certainly ten shillings--the _accepted_ notes would pass for that any
where. The crowd pressed closer and closer, arms crossing over each other
to get notes in at the window, the clerks' heads appearing and
disappearing. It was said they were laughing while they thus deluded the
people.

All the intelligence that Ormond, after being nearly suffocated, could
obtain from any of the clerks, was, that Sir Ulick was in the country.
"They believed at Castle Hermitage--could not be certain--had no letters
for him to-day--he was ill when they heard last--so ill he could do no
business--confined to his bed."

The people in the street hearing these answers replied, "Confined in his
bed, is he?--In the jail, it should be, as many will be along of him. Ill,
is he, Sir Ulick?--Sham sickness, may be--all his life a _sham_." All these
and innumerable other taunts and imprecations, with which the poor people
vented their rage, Ormond heard as he made his way out of the crowd.

Of all who had suffered, he who had probably lost the most, and who
certainly had been on the brink of losing the greatest part of what he
possessed, was the only individual who uttered no reproach.

He was impatient to get down to Castle Hermitage, and if he found that Sir
Ulick had acted fairly, to be some comfort to him, to be with him at least
when deserted by all the rest of the world.

At all the inns upon the road, as he went from Dublin to Castle Hermitage,
even at the villages where he stopped to water the horses, every creature,
down to the hostlers, were talking of the bankruptcy--and abusing Sir Ulick
O'Shane and his son. The curses that were deep, not loud, were the worst--
and the faces of distress worse than all. Gathering round his carriage,
wherever it stopped, the people questioned him and his servants about the
news, and then turned away, saying they were ruined. The men stood in
unutterable despair. The women crying, loudly bewailed "their husbands,
their sons, that must waste in the jail or fly the country; for what should
they do for the rents that had been made up in Sir Ulick's notes, and _no
good_ now?"

Ormond felt the more on hearing these complaints, from his sense of the
absolute impossibility of relieving the universal distress.

He pursued his melancholy journey, and took Moriarty into the carriage with
him, that he might not be recognized on the road.

When he came within sight of Castle Hermitage, he stopped at the top of the
hill at a cottage, where many a time in his boyish days he had rested with
Sir Ulick out hunting. The mistress of the house, now an old woman, came to
the door.

"Master Harry dear!" cried she, when she saw who it was. But the sudden
flash of joy in her old face was over in an instant.

"But did you hear it?" cried she, "and the great change it caused him--poor
Sir Ulick O'Shane? I went up with eggs on purpose to see him, but could
only hear--he was in his bed--wasting with trouble--nobody knows any thing
more--all is kept hush and close. Mr. Marcus took off all he could rap, and
ran, even to--"

"Well, well, I don't want to hear of Marcus--can you tell me whether Dr.
Cambray is come home?"

"Not expected to come till Monday."

"Are you sure?"

"Oh! not a morning but I'm there the first thing, asking, and longing for
them."

"Lie back, Moriarty, in the carriage, and pull your hat over your face,"
whispered Ormond: "postilions, drive on to that little cabin, with the
trees about it, at the foot of the hill." This was Moriarty's cabin. When
they stopped, poor Peggy was called out. Alas! how altered from the
dancing, sprightly, blooming girl, whom Ormond had known so few years since
in the Black Islands! How different from the happy wife, whom he had left,
comfortably settled in a cottage suited to her station and her wishes! She
was thin, pale, and haggard--her dress was neglected--an ill-nursed child,
that she had in her arms she gave to a young girl near her. Approaching the
carriage, and seeing Harry Ormond, she seemed ready to sink into the earth:
however, after having drank some water, she recovered sufficiently to be
able to answer Ormond's inquiries.

"What do you intend to do, Peggy?"

"Do, sir!--go to America, to join my husband sure; every thing was to have
been sold, Monday last--but nobody has any money--and I am tould it will
cost a great deal to get across the sea."

At this she burst into tears and cried most bitterly; and at this moment
the carriage door flew open--Moriarty's impatience could be no longer
restrained--he flung himself into the arms of his wife.

Leaving this happy and innocent couple to enjoy their felicity we proceed
to Castle Hermitage.

Ormond directed the postilions to go the back way to the house. They drove
down the old avenue.

Presently they saw a boy, who seemed to be standing on the watch, run back
towards the castle, leaping over hedge and ditch with desperate haste. Then
came running from the house three men, calling to one another to shut the
gates for the love of God!

They all ran towards the gateway through which the postilions were going to
drive, reached it just as the foremost horses turned, and flung the gate
full against the horses' heads. The men, without looking or caring, went on
locking the gate. Ormond jumped out of the carriage--at the sight of him,
the padlock fell from the hand of the man who held it.

"Master Harry himself!--and is it you?--We ask your pardon, your honour."

The men were three of Sir Ulick's workmen--Ormond forbad the carriage to
follow. "For perhaps you are afraid of the noise disturbing Sir Ulick?"
said be.

"No, plase your honour," said the foremost man, "it will not disturb him--
as well let the carriage come on--only," whispered he, "best to send the
hack postilions with their horses always to the inn, afore they'd learn any
thing."

Ormond walked on quickly, and as soon as he was out of hearing of the
postilions again asked the men, "What news?--how is Sir Ulick?"

"Poor gentleman! he has had a deal of trouble--and no help for him," said
the man.

"Better tell him plain," whispered the next. "Master Harry, Sir Ulick
O'Shane's trouble is over in this world, sir."

"Is he--"

"Dead, he is, and cold, and in his coffin--this minute--and thanks be to
God, if he is safe there even from them that are on the watch to seize on
his body!--In the dread of them creditors, orders were given to keep the
gates locked. He is dead since Tuesday, sir,--but hardly one knows it out
of the castle--except us."

Ormond walked on silently, while they followed, talking at intervals.

"There is a very great cry against him, sir, I hear, in Dublin,--and here
in the country, too," said one.

"The distress, they say, is very great, he caused; but they might let his
body rest any way--what good can that do them?"

"Bad or good, they sha'n't touch it," said the other: "by the blessing, we
shall have him buried safe in the morning, afore they are stirring. We
shall carry the coffin through the under ground passage, that goes to the
stables, and out by the lane to the churchyard asy--and the gentleman, the
clergyman, has notice all will be ready, and the housekeeper only
attending."

"Oh! the pitiful funeral," said the eldest of the men, "the pitiful funeral
for Sir Ulick O'Shane, that was born to better."

"Well, we can only do the best we can," said the other, "let what will
happen to ourselves; for Sir Marcus said he wouldn't take one of his
father's notes from any of us."

Ormond involuntarily felt for his purse.

"Oh! don't be bothering the gentleman, don't be talking," said the old man.

"This way, Master Harry, if you please, sir, the underground way to the
back yard. We keep all close till after the burying, for fear--that was the
housekeeper's order. Sent all off to Dublin when Sir Ulick took to his bed,
and Lady Norton went off."

Ormond refrained from asking any questions about his illness, fearing to
inquire into the manner of his death. He walked on more quickly and
silently. When they were going through the dark passage, one of the men, in
a low voice, observed to Mr. Ormond that the housekeeper would tell him all
about it.

When they got to the house, the housekeeper and Sir Ulick's man appeared,
seeming much surprised at the sight of Mr. Ormond. They said a great deal
about the _unfortunate event_, and their own sorrow and _distress_; but
Ormond saw that theirs were only the long faces, dismal tones, and outward
show of grief. They were just a common housekeeper and gentleman's
gentleman, neither worse nor better than ordinary servants in a great
house. Sir Ulick had only treated them as such.

The housekeeper, without Ormond's asking a single question, went on to tell
him that "Castle Hermitage was as full of company, even to the last week,
as ever it could hold, and all as grand as ever; the first people in
Ireland--champagne and burgundy, and ices, and all as usual--and a ball
that very week. Sir Ulick was very considerate, and sent Lady Norton off to
her other friends; he took ill suddenly that night with a great pain in his
head: he had been writing hard, and in great trouble, and he took to his
bed, and never rose from it--he was found by Mr. Dempsey, his own man, dead
in his bed in the morning--of a broken heart, to be sure!--Poor
gentleman!--Some people in the neighbourhood was mighty busy talking how
the coroner ought to be sent for; but that blew over, sir. But then we were
in dread of the seizure of the body for debt, so the gates was kept locked;
and now you know all we know about it, sir."

Ormond said he would attend the funeral. There was no attempt to seize upon
the body; only the three workmen, the servants, a very few of the
cottagers, and Harry Ormond, attended to the grave the body of the once
popular Sir Ulick O'Shane. This was considered by the country people as the
greatest of all the misfortunes that had befallen him; the lowest
degradation to which an O'Shane could be reduced. They compared him with
King Corny, and "see the difference!" said they; "the one was _the true
thing_, and never _changed_--and after all, where is the great friends
now?--the quality that used to be entertained at the castle above? Where is
all the favour promised him now? What is it come to? See, with all his wit,
and the schemes upon schemes, broke and gone, and forsook and forgot, and
buried without a funeral, or a tear, but from Master Harry." Ormond was
surprised to hear, in the midst of many of their popular superstitions and
prejudices, how justly they estimated Sir Ulick's abilities and character.

As the men filled up his grave, one of them said, "There lies the making of
an excellent gentleman--but the cunning of his head spoiled the goodness of
his heart."

The day after the funeral an agent came from Dublin to settle Sir Ulick
O'Shane's affairs in the country.

On opening his desk, the first thing that appeared was a bundle of
accounts, and a letter, directed to H. Ormond, Esq. He took it to his own
room and read--

"ORMOND,

"I intended to _employ_ your money to re-establish my falling credit, but I
never intended to _defraud_ you.

"ULICK O'SHANE."



CHAPTER XXXII.

Both from a sense of justice to the poor people concerned, and from a
desire to save Sir Ulick O'Shane's memory as far as it was in his power
from reproach, Ormond determined to pay whatever small debts were due to
his servants, workmen, and immediate dependents. For this purpose, when the
funeral was over, he had them all assembled at Castle Hermitage. Every just
demand of this sort was paid, all were satisfied; even the bare-footed
kitchen-maid, the drudge of this great house, who, in despair, had looked
at her poor one guinea note of Sir Ulick's, had that note paid in gold, and
went away blessing Master Harry. Happy for all that he is come home to us,
was the general feeling. But there was one man, a groom of Sir Ulick's, who
did not join in any of these blessings or praises: he stood silent and
motionless, with his eyes on the money which Mr. Ormond had put into his
hand.

"Is your money right?" said Ormond.

"It is, sir; but I had something to tell you."

When all the other servants had left the room, the man said, "I am the
groom, sir, that was sent, just before you went to France, with a letter to
Annaly: there was an answer to that letter, sir, though you never got it."

"There was an answer!" cried Ormond, anger flashing, but an instant
afterwards joy sparkling in his eyes. "There was a letter!--From whom?--
I'll forgive you all, if you will tell me the whole truth."

"I will--and not a word of lie, and I beg your honour's pardon, if--"

"Go on--straight to the fact, this instant, or you shall never have my
pardon."

"Why then I stopped to take a glass coming home; and, not knowing how it
was, I had the misfortune to lose the bit of a note, and I thought no more
about it till, plase your honour, after you was gone, it was found."

"Found!" cried Ormond, stepping hastily up to him--where is it?"

"I have it safe here," said the man, opening a sort of pocket-book "here I
have kept it safe till your honour came back."

Ormond saw and seized upon a letter in Lady Armaly's hand, directed to him.
Tore it open--two notes--one from Florence.

"I forgive you!" said he to the man, and made a sign to him to leave the
room.

When Ormond had read, or without reading had taken in, by one glance of the
eye, the sense of the letters--he rang the bell instantly.

"Inquire at the post-office," said he to his servant, "whether Lady Annaly
is in England or Ireland?--If in England, where?--if in Ireland, whether at
Annaly or at Herbert's Town? Quick--an answer."

An answer was quickly brought, "In England--in Devonshire, sir: here is the
exact direction to the place, sir. I shall pack up, I suppose, sir?"

"Certainly--directly."

Leaving a few lines of explanation and affection for Dr. Cambray, our young
hero was _off again_, to the surprise and regret of all who saw him driving
away as fast as horses could carry him. His servant, from the box, however,
spread as he went, for the comfort of the deploring village, the assurance
that "Master and he would soon be back again, please Heaven!--and happier
than ever."

And now that he is safe in the carriage, what was in that note of Miss
Annaly's which has produced such a _sensation_? No talismanic charm ever
operated with more magical celerity than this note. What were the words of
the charm?

That is a secret which shall never be known to the world.

The only point which it much imports the public to know is probably already
guessed--that the letter did not contain a refusal, nor any absolute
discouragement of Ormond's hopes. But Lady Annaly and Florence had both
distinctly told him that they could not receive him at Annaly till after a
certain day, on which they said that they should be particularly engaged.
They told him that Colonel Albemarle was at Annaly--that he would leave it
at such a time--and they requested that Mr. Ormond would postpone his visit
till after that time.

Not receiving this notice, Ormond had unfortunately gone upon the day that
was specially prohibited.

Now that the kneeling figure appeared to him as a rival in despair, not in
triumph, Ormond asked himself how he could ever have been such an idiot as
to doubt Florence Annaly.

"Why did I set off in such haste for Paris?--Could not I have waited a
day?--Could not I have written again?--Could I not have cross-questioned
the drunken servant when he was sober?--Could not I have done any thing, in
short, but what I did?"

Clearly as a man, when his anger is dissipated, sees what he ought to have
done or to have left undone while the fury lasted; vividly as a man in a
different kind of passion sees the folly of all he did, said, or thought,
when he was possessed by the past madness; so clearly, so vividly, did
Ormond now see and feel--and vehemently execrate, his jealous folly and mad
precipitation; and then he came to the question, could his folly be
repaired?--would his madness ever be forgiven? Ormond, in love affairs,
never had any presumption--any tinge of the Connal coxcombry in his nature:
he was not apt to flatter himself that he had made a deep impression; and
now he was, perhaps from his sense of the superior value of the object,
more than usually diffident. Though Miss Annaly was still unmarried, she
might have resolved irrevocably against him. Though she was not a girl to
act in the high-flown heroine style, and, in a fit of pride or revenge, to
punish the man she liked, by marrying his rival, whom she did not like; yet
Florence Annaly, as Ormond well knew, inherited some of her mother's
strength of character; and, in circumstances that deeply touched her heart,
might be capable of all her mother's warmth of indignation. It was in her
character decidedly to refuse to connect herself with any man, however her
heart might incline towards him, if he had any essential defect of temper;
or if she thought that his attachment to her was not steady and strong,
such as she deserved it should be, and such as her sensibility and all her
hopes of domestic happiness required in a husband. And then there was Lady
Annaly to be considered--how indignant she would be at his conduct!

While Ormond was travelling alone, he had full leisure to torment himself
with these thoughts. Pressed forward alternately by hope and fear, each
urging expedition, he hastened on--reached Dublin--crossed the water--and
travelling day and night, lost not a moment till he was at the feet of his
fair mistress.

To those who like to know the how, the when, and the where, it should be
told that it was evening when he arrived. Florence Annaly was walking with
her mother by the seaside, in one of the most beautiful and retired parts
of the coasts of Devonshire, when they were told by a servant that a
gentleman from Ireland had just arrived at their house, and wished to see
them. A minute afterwards they saw--"Could it be?" Lady Annaly said,
turning in doubt to her daughter; but the cheek of Florence instantly
convinced the mother that it could be none but Mr. Ormond himself.

"Mr. Ormond!" said Lady Annaly, advancing kindly, yet with dignified
reserve--"Mr. Ormond, after his long absence, is welcome to his old
friend."

There was in Ormond's look and manner, as he approached, something that
much inclined the daughter to hope that he might prove not utterly unworthy
of her mother's forgiveness; and when he spoke to the daughter, there was
in his voice and look something that softened the mother's heart, and
irresistibly inclined her to wish that he might be able to give a
satisfactory explanation of his strange conduct. Where the parties are thus
happily disposed both to hear reason, to excuse passion, and to pardon the
errors to which passion, even in the most reasonable minds, is liable,
explanations are seldom tedious, or difficult to be comprehended. The
moment Ormond produced the cover, the soiled cover of the letters, a
glimpse of the truth struck Florence Annaly; and before he had got farther
in his sentence than these words, "I did not receive your ladyship's letter
till within these few days," all the reserve of Lady Annaly's manner was
dispelled: her smiles relieved his apprehensions, and encouraged him to
proceed in his story with happy fluency. The carelessness of the drunken
servant, who had occasioned so much mischief, was talked of for a few
minutes with great satisfaction.

Ormond took his own share of the blame so frankly and with so good a grace,
and described with such truth the agony he had been thrown into by the
sight of the kneeling figure in regimentals, that Lady Annaly could not
help comforting him by the assurance that Florence had, at the same moment,
been _sufficiently_ alarmed by the rearing of his horse at the sight of the
flapping window-blind.

"The kneeling gentleman," said Lady Annaly, "whom you thought at the height
of joy and glory, was at that moment in the depths of despair. So ill do
the passions see what is even before their eyes!"

If Lady Annaly had had a mind to moralize, she might have done so to any
length, without fear of interruption from either of her auditors, and with
the most perfect certainty of unqualified submission and dignified humility
on the part of our hero, who was too happy at this moment not to be ready
to acknowledge himself to have been wrong and absurd, and worthy of any
quantity of reprehension or indignation that could have been bestowed upon
him.

Her ladyship went, however, as far from morality as possible--to Paris. She
spoke of the success Mr. Ormond had had in Parisian society--she spoke of
M. and Madame de Connal, and various persons with whom he had been
intimate, among others of the Abb Morellet.

Ormond rejoiced to find that Lady Annaly knew he had been in the Abb
Morellet's distinguished society. The happiest hopes for the future rose in
his mind, from perceiving that her ladyship, by whatever means, knew all
that he had been doing in Paris. It seems that they had had accounts of him
from several English travellers, who had met him at Paris, and had heard
him spoken of in different companies.

Ormond took care--give him credit for it all who have ever been in love--
even in these first moments, with the object of his present affection,
Ormond took care to do justice to the absent Dora, whom he now never
expected to see again. He seized, dexterously, an opportunity, in reply to
something Lady Annaly said about the Connals, to observe that Madame de
Connal was not only much admired for her beauty at Paris, but that she did
honour to Ireland by having preserved her reputation; young, and without a
guide, as she was, in dissipated French society, with few examples of
conjugal virtues to preserve in her mind the precepts and habits of her
British education.

He was glad of this opportunity to give, as he now did with all the energy
of truth, the result of his feelings and reflections on what he had seen of
the modes of living among the French; their superior pleasures of society,
and their want of our domestic happiness.

While Ormond was speaking, both the mother and daughter could not help
admiring, in the midst of his moralizing, the great improvement which had
been made in his appearance and manners.

With all his own characteristic frankness, he acknowledged the impression
which French gaiety and the brilliancy of Parisian society had at first
made upon him: he was glad, however, that he had now seen all that the
imagination often paints as far more delightful than it really is. He had,
thank Heaven, passed through this course of dissipation without losing his
taste for better and happier modes of life. The last few months, though
they might seem but a splendid or feverish dream in his existence, had in
reality been, he believed, of essential service in confirming his
principles, settling his character, and deciding for ever his taste and
judgment, after full opportunity of comparison, in favour of his own
country--and especially of his own countrywomen.

Lady Annaly smiled benignantly, and after observing that this seemingly
unlucky excursion, which had begun in anger, had ended advantageously to
Mr. Ormond; and after having congratulated him upon having saved his
fortune, and established his character solidly, she left him to plead his
own cause with her daughter--in her heart cordially wishing him success.

What he said, or what Florence answered, we do not know; but we are
perfectly sure that if we did, the repetition of it would tire the reader.
Lady Annaly and tea waited for them with great patience to an unusually
late, which they conceived to be an unusually early, hour. The result of
this conversation was, that Ormond remained with them in this beautiful
retirement in Devonshire the next day, and the next, and--how many days are
not precisely recorded; a blank was left for the number, which the editor
of these memoirs does not dare to fill up at random, lest some Mrs. M'Crule
should exclaim, "Scandalously too long to keep the young man there!"--or,
"Scandalously too short a courtship, after all!"

It is humbly requested that every young lady of delicacy and feeling will
put herself in the place of Florence Annaly--then, imagining the man she
most approves of to be in the place of Mr. Ormond, she will be pleased to
fill up the blank with what number of days she may think proper.

When the happy day was named, it was agreed that they should return to
Ireland, to Annaly; and that their kind friend, Dr. Cambray, should be the
person to complete that union which he had so long foreseen and so
anxiously desired.

Those who wish to hear something of estates, as well as of weddings, should
be told that about the same time Ormond received letters from Marcus
O'Shane, and from M. de Connal; Marcus informing him that the estate of
Castle Hermitage was to be sold by the commissioners of bankrupts, and
beseeching him to bid for it, that it might not be sold under value. M. de
Connal also besought his dear friend, Mr. Ormond to take the Black Islands
off his hands, for they encumbered him terribly. No wonder, living, as he
did, at Paris, with his head at Versailles, and his heart in a faro bank.
Ormond could not oblige both the gentlemen, though they had each pressing
reasons for getting rid speedily of their property, and were assured that
he would be the most agreeable purchaser. Castle Hermitage was the finest
estate, and by far the best bargain. But other considerations weighed with
our hero. While Sir Ulick O'Shane's son and natural representative was
living, banished by debts from his native country, Ormond could not bear to
take possession of Castle Hermitage. For the Black Islands he had a
fondness--they were associated with all the tender recollections of his
generous benefactor. He should hurt no one's feelings by this purchase--and
he might do a great deal of good, by carrying on his old friend's
improvements, and by farther civilizing the people of the Islands, all of
whom were warmly attached to him. They considered Prince Harry as the
lawful representative of their dear King Corny, and actually offered up
prayers for his coming again to _reign_ over them.

To those who think that the mind is a kingdom of yet more consequence than
even that of the Black Islands, it may be agreeable to hear that Ormond
continued to enjoy the empire which he had gained over himself; and to
maintain that high character, which in spite of his neglected education,
and of all the adverse circumstances to which he was early exposed, he had
formed for himself by resolute energy.

Lady Annaly with the pride of affection, gloried in the full accomplishment
of her prophecies; and was rewarded in the best manner for that benevolent
interest which she had early taken in our hero's improvement, by seeing the
perfect felicity that subsisted between her daughter and Ormond.

The End.





End of Project Gutenberg's Tales & Novels, Vol. IX, by Maria Edgeworth





Produced by W. B. Jenness





        ENTERED ACCORDING TO ACT OF CONGRESS, IN THE YEAR 1865, BY

                            JOHN D. PHILBRICK,

                           IN THE CLERK'S OFFICE

          OF THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

                           RIVERSIDE, CAMBRIDGE:

                        STEREOTYPED AND PRINTED BY

                        H. O. HOUGHTON AND COMPANY.


                                 PREFACE.

The design of this book is twofold,--to meet the present demand for new
selections suited to the spirit of the hour, and also to furnish a choice
collection of standard pieces for elocutionary exercises on which time has
set its lasting seal. In the execution of this design no pains have been
spared in selecting and preparing the best pieces, both new and old.

The extracts from recent productions, numbering about one hundred, by more
than fifty different authors, are now for the first time presented in a
Speaker. They are for the most part the eloquent utterances of our best
orators and poets, inspired by the present national crisis, and  are
therefore "all compact of the passing hour," breathing "the fine sweet
spirit of nationality,--the nationality of America." They give expression
to the emotions excited, the hopes inspired, and the duties imposed by this
stormy and perilous period. They afford brilliant illustrations of the
statesmanship of the crisis. Sumner exposes the origin and mainspring of
the rebellion, Douglass strips off its pretext, Everett paints its crime,
Boutwell boldly proclaims its remedy in emancipation, and Banks pronounces
a benediction on the first act of reconstruction on the solid basis of
freedom to all. They furnish also an epitome of the convict of arms. Bryant
utters the rallying cry to the people, Whittier responds in the united
voice of the North, Holmes sounds the grand charge, Pierpont gives the
command "Forward!" Longfellow and Boker immortalize the unconquerable
heroism of our braves on sea and land, and Andrew and Beecher speak in
tender accents the gratitude of loyal hearts to our fallen heroes.

These new pieces will for a time receive the preference over old ones, and
some of them will survive the period which called them forth. But to insure
for the work, if possible, a permanent value as a Standard Speaker for
students of common schools, higher seminaries and colleges, the greater
part of the selections, nearly three hundred in number, have been chosen
from those of acknowledged excellence, and of unquestionable merit as
exercises for recitation and declamation. This department comprises every
variety of style necessary in elocutionary culture.

Another important feature of the collection is the introduction of those
masterpieces of oratory--long excluded from books of this class, though now
rendered appropriate by the new phase of public opinion,which advocate the
inalienable rights of man, and denounce the crime of human bondage. Aware
of the deep and lasting power which pieces used for declamation exert in
moulding the ideas and opinions of the young, it has been my aim to admit
only such productions as inculcate the noblest and purest sentiments,
teaching patriotism, loyalty, and justice, and bring the youthful heart
with ambition to be useful, and with heroic devotion to duty.

The text of the extracts has been made to conform to that of the most
authentic editions of the works of their authors. Some pieces which have
heretofore been presented in a mutilated form, are here restored to their
original completeness. Where compression or abridgment has been necessary,
it has been executed with caution, and with strict regard to the sentiments
and ideas of the authors. Fully convinced that elaborate treatises on
elocution more appropriately form separate publications, nothing of the
kind has been included in this volume. A summary of practical suggestions
to teachers and students was thought to form a more useful introduction.
For the sake of artistic beauty in the page, as well as for the convenience
of the student, the notes and explanatory remarks necessary for the proper
understanding of the pieces, have been thrown together at the end of the
volume, and so arranged that reference to them can be easily made.

This work, the preparation of which has been a recreation rather than a
labor--an agreeable diversion from the daily routine of a laborious
office,--is the embodiment of the experience and observation of twenty-five
years, with reference to this description of literature. It originated in a
desire to contribute something to the furtherance of the right education of
the young men of my country, and the extent to which it promotes this
object, will in my estimation, be the measure of its success.

                                                      Boston, July 4, 1864.






                     INTRODUCTORY REMARKS ON DECLAMATION.

It is not my purpose to present here a theory of elocution, or a systematic
treatise on the art of speaking. My object will be accomplished if I
succeed in furnishing a summary of practical suggestions and hints on the
subject of declamation which shall prove useful both to student and to such
teachers as have not made the study of elocution a specialty.

That a correct and impressive elocution is a desirable attainment, few will
venture to deny. In my judgment it is the crowning grace of a liberal
education. To the highest success in those professions which involve public
speaking, it is, of course, indispensable. No person, whatever is to be his
destination in life, who aspires to a respectable education and to mingle
in good society, can afford to dispense with this accomplishment. If a
young man means to succeed in life and attain distinction and influence, he
should spare no pains in the cultivation of the faculty of speech. The
culture of his vocal organs should keep pace with the culture of his mental
powers. While acquiring a knowledge of literature and science, he should
also form the habit of speaking his vernacular with propriety, grace, ease,
and elegance, sparing no effort to acquire what has been aptly called "the
music of the phrase; that clear, flowing, and decided sound of the whole
sentence, which embraces both tone and accent, and which is only to be
learned from the precept and example of an accomplished teacher."

As a means of acquiring an appropriate, effective, and graceful elocution
for the purposes of conversation, reading, and public speaking, the
exercise of declamation, when properly conducted, cannot be too highly
valued. It must be confessed, however that the practice of declaiming as
managed in some institutions, is comparatively useless, if not positively
injurious. Hence arises the prejudice against it which exists in some
quarters. And it is not surprising that the results of declamation should
be unsatisfactory, considering the defective methods of conducting it,
which are still prevalent in not a few places. What can be expected of
declamation which consists in repeating on the stage a few
pieces,--injudiciously selected and imperfectly committed,--without
previous or accompanying vocal training? The remarks of Dr. Rush, on this
topic, though made more than a quarter of a century ago, are still to some
extent applicable. "Go to some, may I say all, of our colleges and
universities, and observe how the art of speaking is not taught. See a boy
of but fifteen treats sent upon the stage, pale and choking with
apprehension, in an attempt to do that, without instruction, which he came
purposely to learn; and furnishing amusement to his classmates, by a
pardonable awkwardness, which should be punished in the person of his
pretending but neglectful preceptor with little less than scourging. Then
visit a conservatory of music; observe there the orderly tasks, the
masterly discipline, the unwearied superintendence and the incessant toil
to produce accomplishment of voice; and afterward do not be surprised that
the pulpit, the senate, the bar, and the chair of the medical professorship
are filled with such abominable drawlers, mouthers, mumblers, clutterers,
squeakers, chanters, and mongers in monotony; nor that the schools of
singing are constantly sending abroad those great instances of vocal
wonder, who draw forth the  intelligent curiosity and produce the crowning
delight and approbation of the prince and the sage."

This eminent writer's great work on the Philosophy of the Human Voice has
done much to correct the evil which he so graphically described. There are
now some schools and colleges to be found in which elocution is taught with
much skill and success. Among the disciples of Dr. Rush who have most
successfully cultivated the art of elocution in America, the foremost place
belongs to Professor William Russell, whose valuable and protracted labors
in this department of education, both as an author and a practical
instructor, merit the highest commendation.

As the first of my recommendations, I would, at the outset, strenuously
insist on the importance of systematic vocal culture, which implies the
training of the ear to perceive the various qualities and modifications of
vocal expression, and the training of the voice to produce them. All the
different functions of the voice employed in speech should be analytically
exemplified by the teacher, and practised by the pupil, in the reading or
recitation of short passages in which they are well illustrated, such as
may be found in any good manual of elocution. This kind of teaching is to
elocution what practice upon the scale is to music, and what the practice
of the eye upon the harmony and contrast of colors is to painting.

This course of training naturally divides itself into two
departments:--first that which is mechanical; and, secondly, that which
relates to the expression of thought and emotion.


                       I. THAT WHICH IS MECHANICAL.

BREATHING. The human voice is a musical instrument, an organ of exquisite
contrivance  and adaptation of parts. Breath being the material of its
sound, vocal training should begin with the function of breathing. Vigorous
respiration is as essential to good elocution as it is to good health. To
secure this it is necessary, in the first place, to attend to the posture,
taking care to give the utmost freedom, expansion, and capacity to the
chest, and then to exercise and develop all the muscles employed in
respiration, so that they may be habitually used with energy and power,
both in the inhalation and expulsion of the breath. Whenever the voice is
to be used in speaking, reading, singing, or animated conversation, the
pupil should be required to assume the proper position, and to bring into
exercise the whole muscular apparatus of the vocal organs, including the
muscles of the abdomen, of the back, of the ribs, and of the chest.
Elocutionary exercises, especially that of declamation, thus practised with
a due regard to the function of breathing, become highly beneficial in a
hygienic point of view, imparting health and vigor to the whole physical
system. The want of this kind of training is the cause of much of the
bronchial disease with which clergymen and other public speakers are
afflicted. In the excellent work on Elocution, by Russell and Murdock, the
following exercises in breathing are prescribed and explained:--"Attitude
of the body and position of the organs; deep breathing; diffusive or
tranquil breathing; expulsive or forcible breathing; explosive or abrupt
breathing; sighing; sobbing; gasping; and panting."

Experience has proved that the respiratory organs are susceptible of a high
degree of development, and it is well known that the strength of the voice
depends on the capacity, health, and action of those organs. It is
therefore of paramount importance that elocutionary culture should be based
on the mechanical function of respiration. And while the elocutionist
trains his pupils in such breathing exercises as are above named, he is at
the same time giving the very best part of physical education; for the
amount of vital power, as well as the amount of vocal power, depends upon
the health and vigor of the respiratory process. Few are aware how much may
be effected by these exercises, judiciously practiced, in those
constitutions where the chest is narrow, indicating a tendency to pulmonary
disease. In all such cases, regularly repeated deep inspirations are of the
highest value. It should be observed that these exercises are best
performed in the open air, or, at least, in a well-ventilated room, the
windows being open for the time. But no directions however wise or minute,
can supersede the necessity of a competent teacher in this branch of
physical and vocal training, and I cannot dismiss this topic without
expressing my high appreciation of the value of the labors of that great
master of the science of vocal culture, Prof. Lewis B. Monroe, of Boston,
who is probably unsurpassed in this, or any other country, as a practical
teacher of the mechanism and physiology of speech. Already the benefit of
his instruction in this department of education is widely felt, and I omit
no opportunity to advise teachers to avail themselves of a longer or
shorter course of his admirable training. For if there is any
accomplishment which a teacher should be unwilling to forego, it is that,
of skill in elocution.

ARTICULATION. A good articulation consists in giving to each letter its
appropriate sound, and to each syllable and word an accurate, forcible, and
distinct utterance, according to an approved standard of pronunciation.

This is what constitutes the basis of all good delivery. It has been well
said that good articulation is to the ear what a fair hand or a clear type
is to the eye. Austin's often-quoted description of a good articulation
must not be omitted here. "In just articulation, the words are not to be
hurried over, nor precipitated syllable over syllable; nor as it were
melted together into a mass of confusion. They should be neither abridged
nor prolonged, nor swallowed, nor forced; they should not be trailed, nor
drawled, nor let to slip out carelessly, so as to drop unfinished. They are
to be delivered out from the lips as beautiful coins newly issued from the
mint, deeply and accurately impressed, perfectly finished, neatly struck by
the proper organs, distinct, in due succession, and of due weight." Good
articulation is not only necessary to the speaker, as a condition of being
heard and understood, but it is a positive beauty of delivery, for the
elementary sounds of speech, when properly uttered, are in themselves both
agreeable and impressive. For the attainment of this desirable
accomplishment, three classes of exercises are necessary. 1. Upon the
separate elementary sounds of the language, both vowels and consonants; 2.
Upon their various combinations, both such as constitute syllables and such
as do not, and especially the more difficult combinations of consonants;
and, 3. Upon words; spelling them by sounds, that is, uttering the
elementary sounds separately, and then the whole word.

Respecting these exercises, Dr. Rush observes:--"When the elements are
pronounced singly, they may receive a concentration of organic effort,
which gives them a clearness of sound, and a definiteness of outline, if I
may so speak, at their extremes, that make a fine preparation for a
distinct and forcible pronunciation of the compounds of speech." By
elementary sounds is here meant the forty-two sounds of the language which
are represented by the twenty-six letters of the alphabet. They are
represented in the following

                        TABLE OF ELEMENTARY SOUNDS.

                                  VOWELS.

                  1. e, eve.   7. a, arm.    13. o, move.
                  2. i, in.    8. a, all.    14. u, full.
                  3. a, ale.   9, o, on.     15. u, tune.
                  4. e, end.   10. e, err.   16. i, isle.
                  5. a, air.   11. o, own.   17. oi, oil.
                  6. a, and.   12. u, un.    18. ou, our.

                                CONSONANTS.

                 1. p, rope.    9. th, bath.     17. ch, etch.
                 2. b, robe.    10. th, bath.    18. dg,(j) edge.
                 3. f, safe.    11. s, buss.     19. sh, rash.
                 4. v, save.    12. z, buzz.     20. g,(zh) rouge.
                 5. m, seem.    13. l, feel.     21. k, rack.
                 6. w, way.     14. r, fear.     22. g, rag.
                 7. t, feet.    15. n, seen.     23. ng, sing.
                 8. d, feed.    16. y, yea.      24. h, hay.

Pronounce the word eve, for example, slowly and distinctly, observing the
sounds which compose the word, and the movements of the organs in producing
them. Then enunciate singly the sound which the letter standing on the left
has in the word. When a distinct idea of each sound has been acquired, the
practice on the separate elements may be continued without pronouncing the
words. I have heard these sounds given with distinctness by children five
or six years of age. Indeed they should always be taught with the alphabet.

The next step in articulation proceeds with the combinations of the
elementary sounds. The most common combinations of consonantal sounds in
pairs are those represented in the following

                       TABLE OF COMBINED CONSONANTS.

               pl     lf     zm     zn     kr     vd     rth
               bl     lv     mp     ln     pr     zd     nth
               fl     lt     mf     rn     rp     gd     thz
               vl     ld     mt     nt     rb     bz     thr
               tl     ls     md     nd     rf     vz     thn
               dl     lz     mz     ns     rv     dz     lch
               sl     lk     pn     nz     rt     gz     rch
               zl     lg     fn     pr     rd     nk     nch
               kl     lm     vn     br     rz     ks     ndg(j)
               gl     ln     tn     fr     rk     kt     shr
               lp     rm     dn     tr     rg     st     ndg
               lb     sm     sn     dr     bd     sp     ndz

When the simpler combinations have become familiar, the more difficult,
consisting of three or four consonants, should be practised upon. Finally,
words should be pronounced simply as words, giving attention solely to the
articulation. Not that the first steps are expected to be perfect before
the succeeding ones are attempted, but that attention should be given to
only one thing at a time, a grand maxim in education, when rightly
understood. These exercises should be commenced with the first steps in
reading, and continued until the articulation is perfected, and the student
has acquired facility as well as precision, grace as well as force, and
distinctness and ease have been united and permanently secured.

I would not be understood to affirm that the mode here pointed out is the
only one by which a good articulation can be acquired. If a child is
brought up among persons whose articulation is good, and if, from the
earliest years, he is trained to speak with deliberation and distinctness,
he will in most cases have a good articulation for conversational purposes,
without special drilling on the elements.

    II. THAT WHICH RELATES TO THE EXPRESSION OF THOUGHTS AND FEELINGS,
           INCLUDING THE QUALITIES AND MANAGEMENT OF THE VOICE.

This branch of vocal gymnastics comprises, first the appropriate discipline
of the voice for its formation and development, by strengthening it, by
extending its compass, and by improving its quality so as to render it
full, sonorous, and agreeable; and, secondly, the training of the voice in
those modifications which are used in the expressions of thought and
feeling, including all that variety of management which appears in the
delivery of a good speaker.

STRENGTH. To secure the requisite strength of voice should be our first aim
in a course of vocal culture. So important was this element of elocutionary
training considered by the Athenians, that they had a class of teachers who
were wholly devoted to it as a specialty. The zeal and perseverance of
Demosthenes in correcting the natural deficiencies of his voice, have
passed into a proverb. How he was accustomed to run up the steepest hills,
and to declaim on the sea-shore, when the waves were violently agitated, in
order to acquire strength of voice and force of utterance is known to every
school-boy.

If strength of voice is of paramount importance to the speaker, it is also
an element which is very susceptible of cultivation. Professor Russell
says,--"The fact is familiar to instructors in elocution, that persons
commencing practice [in vocal gymnastics] with a very weak and inadequate
voice, attain, in a few weeks, a perfect command of the utmost degrees of
force." As has already been intimated, the strength of the voice depends
directly upon the condition and use of the respiratory organs, including
the larynx, and indirectly upon the general health and vigor of the whole
physical system. The volume of breath which can be inhaled, and the force
with which it can be expelled determine the degree of energy with which
vocal sounds are uttered. This fact affords a clear indication of the
proper mode of developing the strength of the voice. It is evident that the
exercises which have for their object the strengthening of the voice,
should also be adapted to develop and perfect the process of breathing. The
student should be frequently trained in set exercises in loud exclamations,
pronouncing with great force the separate vowel sounds, single words, and
whole sentences, and at the same time taking care to bring into vigorous
action, all the muscular apparatus of respiration. Shouting, calling, and
loud vociferation, in the open air, both while standing, and while walking
or running, are, with due caution, effective means of acquiring vigor of
utterance. Children when at play are instinctively given to vociferation,
which should be permitted, whenever practicable. One of the most remarkable
examples of the extent to which the power of voice may be developed, is
that of the Rev. Mr. Whitefield, the celebrated itinerant preacher. Having
listened to his preaching in the open air, in Philadelphia, on a certain
occasion, Dr. Franklin found by computation, that he might well be heard by
more than thirty thousand auditors. It is said that the habit of speaking
gave to the utterance of Garrick so wonderful an energy, that even his
under-key was distinctly audible to ten thousand people. Dr. Porter sums up
this matter thus :--"The public speaker needs a powerful voice; the
quantity of voice which he can employ, at least can employ with safety,
depends on his strength of lungs; and this again depends on a sound state
of general health. If he neglects this, all other precautions will be
useless."

COMPASS. When a person is engaged in earnest conversation, his voice
spontaneously adopts a certain key or pitch. This is called the natural or
middle key, and it varies in different persons. Pitt's voice, it is said,
was a full tenor, and Fox's a treble. When a speaker is incapable of loud
and forcible utterance on both high and low notes, his voice is said to be
wanting in compass. Webster's voice was remarkable for the extent of its
compass, ranging with the utmost ease, from the highest to the lowest
notes, required by a spirited and diversified delivery; and such was said
to be the versatility of Whitefield's vocal power, that he could imitate
the tones of a female, or the infant voice, at one time, and at another,
strike his hearers with awe, by the thunder of his under-key.

The want of compass is more frequently the result of bad habits of speaking
and imperfect training than of incapacity of the vocal organs. Mr. Murdock,
the well-known actor and elocutionist, tells us that, by appropriate vocal
training, he gained, within the space of some months, to such an extent, in
power and depth of voice, as to add to its previous range a full octave;
and this improvement was made at a period after he supposed himself nearly
broken down in health and voice, by over-exertion on the stage.

A command of the low notes is essential to the fullest effect of impressive
eloquence. The strongest and deepest emotions can be expressed only by a
full, deep-toned utterance. Speaking on one key, with only slight
variations, either above or below it, is perhaps the most common, and, at
the same time, the most injurious fault both of declaimers and of public
speakers.

As a means of acquiring compass of voice, the student should pronounce with
great force the vowel sounds on both the highest and lowest notes he can
reach. This elementary drill should be followed by practice in reading and
declaiming selections requiring the extreme notes of the compass. For
practice on the low notes, passages should be selected expressing deep
solemnity, awe, horror, melancholy, or deep grief. The following fine
simile affords an excellent example for practice on the low notes:--

             "So when an angel, by divine command,
             With rising tempests shakes a guilty land,
             Such as of late o'er pale Brittania passed,
             Calm and serene he drives the furious blast;
             And, pleased th' Almighty's orders to perform,
             Rides in the whirlwind and directs the storm."

The development of the top of the voice requires practice upon passages
expressing brisk, gay, and joyous emotions, and the extremes of pain, fear,
and grief. The following examples may serve as illustrations:

             Last came Joy's ecstatic trial:
             He, with viny crown advancing,
             First to the lively pipe his hand addressed:
             But soon he saw the brisk, awakening viol,
             Whose sweet entrancing voice he loved the best.
             They would have thought, who heard the strain,
             They saw, in Temp's vale, her native maids,
             Amidst the festal-sounding shades,
             To some unlearned minstrel dancing;
             While, as his flying fingers kissed the strings,
             Love framed with Mirth a gay fantastic round.
             Strike--till the last armed foe expires;
             Strike--for your altars and your fires;
             Strike--for the green graves of your sires,--
             God.--and your native land!

QUALITY. A voice may possess the properties we have considered, strength
and compass, and yet be very far from perfection. It may be neither loud,
nor round, nor clear, nor full, nor sweet. While on the other hand, it may
be hollow, or aspirated, or guttural, or nasal, or possibly it may be
afflicted with a combination of these faults. As one of the most important
conditions of success in the cultivation of the voice, it is necessary that
the student should acquire a distinct conception of the qualities and
characteristics of a good voice, as a standard, a beau-ideal, which he may
strive to reach. This must be derived mainly from the illustrations of the
teacher, or from listening to the speaking of an accomplished orator. No
mere description is adequate to convey it to the learner without the aid of
the living voice. And yet, such a quaint and charming description of both
the negative and positive qualities of a good voice, as the following, from
a colloquy between Professor Wilson and the Ettrick Shepherd, is worth
studying:--

NORTH. (Professor Wilson)

     "James, I love to hear your voice. An Esquimaux would feel
     himself getting civilized under it for there's sense in the very
     sound. A man's character speaks in his voice, even more than in
     his words. These he may utter by rote, but his 'voice is the man
     for a' that,' and betrays or divulges his peculiar nature. Do you
     like my voice, James? I hope you do."


Shepherd. (James Hogg.)

     "I wad ha'e kent it, Mr. North, on the tower o' Babel, on the day
     o' the great hubbub. I think Socrates maun ha'e had just sic a
     voice--ye canna weel ca 't sweet, for it is ower intellectual for
     that--ye canna ca 't saft, for even in its aigh notes there's a
     sort o' birr, a sort o' dirl that betokens power--ye canna ca 't
     hairsh, for angry as ye may be at times, it's aye in tune frae
     the fineness o' your ear for music--ye canna ca 't sherp, for
     it's aye sae nat'ral--and flett it cud never be, gin you were
     even gi'en ower by the doctors. It's maist the only voice I ever
     heard, that I can say is at ance persuawsive and commanding--you
     micht fear 't, but you maun love 't; and there's no a voice in
     all his Majesty's dominions, better framed by nature to hold
     communion with friend or foe."

The quality of voice to which I would here call special attention is called
pure tone, which in its perfection, accompanied with strength and compass,
comprises nearly all the requisites of a good voice. "True utterance and
pure tone," says Professor Russell, "employ the whole apparatus of voice,
in one consentaneous act, combining in one perfect sphere of sound, if it
may be so expressed, the depth of effect produced by the resonance of the
chest, the force and firmness imparted by the due compression of the
throat, the clear, ringing property, caused by the due proportion of nasal
effect, and the softening and sweetening influence of the head and mouth."


The orotund quality which is so effective in impassioned utterance, and in
the expression of deep, forcible, and sublime emotions, is nothing more
than pure tone increased in extent of volume, and in intensity of force.
This modification of pure tone is very full, very rounds very smooth, and
very highly resonant or ringing. It is what Dr. Rush regarded as the
highest perfection of speech-voice, and as the natural language of the
highest species of emotion. Volume and energy are its distinguishing
characteristics. The piece from Webster on page 160, is a good illustration
of its use.

In cultivating purity of tone, it is necessary, in the first place, to
ascertain the elements of impurity, and their causes and remedies. To this
negative process must be added the positive, namely--attention to the due
and proportionate development of all the vocal organs. Depth is increased
by the expansion of the pharynx; roundness and volume are promoted by the
enlargement of the oral cavity, especially its back part; and smoothness is
the result of the free vibration of the vocal chords, while resonance is
produced by the proper expansion of the chest.

MODULATION. This has reference, not to the qualities of the voice itself,
but to its management in delivery. It includes those modifications and
variations which are requisite for the expression of thoughts and feelings,
and are therefore denominated by some elocutionists, the elements of
expression, in distinction from the elements of utterance, which we have
already considered under the preceding heads. The principal expressive
modifications of the voice, are pitch, force, rate, pause, and infection.
The voice should be exercised on these elements separately, till each can
be produced in all its varieties and degrees. The middle pitch, or
key-note, is that of common discourse, but by practice it may be rendered
effective in public speaking. Neglect to cultivate and develop the power of
speaking on this key, often leads speakers to adopt the high, shouting
note, which is heard so commonly, and with so much disapprobation, at
exhibitions of declamation. Every one can speak on a high key, although
without training few can do it pleasingly; but command over the low notes
of the voice is a rare accomplishment, and an unequivocal characteristic of
the finished speaker. It is well to pay some attention to the very high and
very low notes, not so much for their own utility in public speaking as for
the purpose of giving strength and firmness to the notes which are
intermediate between the natural pitch and either extreme, and which are
designated as simply high and low, without any qualifying term. After
accustoming the ear and voice to the different notes, the student should
learn to make sudden transitions from one key to another.

FORCE. The principal degrees of force requiring attention, are three: the
moderate, the declamatory, and the impassioned. The degrees lower than
moderate are, the suppressed and the subdued; and those higher than
impassioned are, shouting and calling. But these are not very important in
practical delivery.

RATE has reference to the kinds of movement in delivery, including the
rapid, the moderate, and the slow. Mrs. Siddon's primary rule for good
reading was, "Take Time." Excessive rapidity of utterance is, undoubtedly,
a very prevalent fault, both in speaking and in conversation. Deliberate
speech is usually a characteristic of culture and good-breeding. This
excellence is greatly promoted by giving due quantity, or prolongation of
sound, to the vowels.

PAUSES. Besides the pauses required by the syntactical structure of the
sentence, and denoted by grammatical punctuation, there are the pauses of
passion, and the pauses at the termination of the clusters into which words
are grouped in good speaking.

The pauses of emotion occur in impassioned delivery. They usually consist
in lengthening the stops indicated by the punctuation marks, especially
those of the points of exclamation and interrogation, and the dash. Pauses
of this description constitute one of the most importent of the elements of
emphatic expression, and yet they are, by many speakers, altogether
neglected, or so abridged as to destroy their effect. The young student is
particularly apt to disregard them.

The pauses which mark the grouping of words according to the sense, and
afford rests for taking breath, should generally be introduced before the
nominative, if it consists of several words, or if it is one important
word; before and after an intermediate clause; before the relative; before
and after clauses introduced by prepositions; before conjunctions; and
before the infinitive mood, if any words intervene betwixt it and the word
governing it.

INFLECTIONS. The two chief inflections or slides are the raising and the
falling. The voice, when properly managed, usually rises or falls on each
emphatic syllable. These upward and downward movements of the voice are
what we mean by inflections. The student should practice on them till he
can inflect with ease and in a full sonorous voice. Persons who are
deficient in tune do not readily perceive the difference between the rising
slide and loudness of voice, or the falling and softness. It is a very
useful exercise to pronounce the long vowel sounds giving to each first the
rising then the falling slide. The prolongation of these sounds is most
profitably connected with the slides, the voice being thus strengthened in
its whole range of compass, and, at the same time, accustomed to utter the
musical sounds of speech with due quantity. In inflecting the vowels, the
voice, in order to rise, begins low; and, in order to fall, it begins high.

The rising and falling slides combined form the circumflex, or wave, which
is a very impressive and significant modification of the voice. It is
chiefly used in sarcasm, raillery, irony, wit, and humor. It well deserves
careful study and practice.

THE MONOTONE, is the repetition of nearly the same tone on successive
syllables, resembling the repeated strokes of the bell. This element
belongs to very grave delivery, especially where emotions of awe,
sublimity, grandeur, and vastness are expressed, and is peculiarly adapted
to devotional exercises. The following example well illustrates its use:

     "He bowed the heavens also, and came down; and darkness was under
     his feet,--And he rode upon a cherub and did fly; yea, he did
     fly upon the wings of the wind. He made darkness his secret
     place; his pavilion round about him were dark waters and thick
     clouds of the skies."

In practical delivery, the elements of expression are never used
independently of each other, two or three being always combined, even in
the utterance of the shortest passage. The perfection of vocal training,
therefore, requires a command, not merely of each individual modification
of the voice, but of all their numerous combinations. The following example
requires the union of declamatory force, low pitch, slow rate, monotone,
and orotund quality:--

               "High on a throne of royal state, which far
               Outshone the wealth of Ormus. and of Ind,
               Or where the gorgeous East with richest hand,
               Showers on her kings barbaric pearl and gold,
               Satan exalted sat."

What has been said thus far, relates wholly to preparatory training  in the
elements of elocution. I have dwelt upon this theoretical department of my
subject, because of its transcendent importance. But I do not mean to
imply, in anything that has been presented, that the pupil should be
confined exclusively to this disciplinary drill, for a long period, without
attempting practical exercises in reading and declamation. On the contrary,
I would recommend that this practice on the vocal and expressive elements
be carried forward together with practice in speaking pieces. Exercises in
vocal gymnastics, such as I have now indicated, should be commenced with
the first stages of education, and continued, with gradations adapted to
the age and progress of the pupil, through the whole course of instruction,
whether longer or shorter. The value of thorough elementary training is
well illustrated by the following anecdote respecting the education of the
ear and the singing voice:--

     "Porpora, one of the most illustrious masters of Italy, having
     conceived a friendship for a young pupil, exacted from him the
     promise that he would persevere with constancy in the course
     which he should mark out for him. The master then noted upon a
     single page of ruled paper, the diatonic and chromatic scales,
     ascending and descending; the intervals of third, fourth, fifth,
     &c. This eternal page occupied master and pupil until the sixth
     year, when the master added some lessons in articulation and
     declamation. At the end of this year, the pupil, who still
     supposed himself in the elements, was much surprised when Porpora
     said to him, 'Go, my son, you have nothing more to learn; you are
     the first singer of Italy, and of the world.' The master had
     spoken the truth, for this singer was Caffarelli, the greatest
     singer of the eighteenth century."


                                EXPRESSION

This term is used here, not in its limited and technical meaning, but in
its largest sense, as a convenient one to denote the practical application
of the principles of vocal culture which I have recommended. We will
suppose the student to be thoroughly trained in enunciation, that his
utterance is distinct and his pronunciation is correct, and that his voice
is fully developed and well modulated. The question now arises, How is he
to be guided in the right use of his powers of speech in the delivery of a
given piece? On this point there is a wide difference of opinion among
writers on elocution. On the one hand there are those who contend that, in
the delivery of every sentence, the application of emphasis, pause, pitch,
inflection, &c., should be governed by definite rules. In accordance with
this theory, they have formed complex systems of elocutionary rules, for
the guidance of pupils in reading aloud and in declamation. On the other
hand, there are authorities of eminence, who regard all specific rules for
the management of the voice in speaking as not merely useless, but
positively injurious. Most prominent among the latter class is Archbishop
Whately who, in speaking of the method of teaching expressive delivery by
rules, says:--"Such a plan not only directs us into a circuitous and
difficult path, towards an object which may be reached by a shorter and
straighter, but also in most instances completely fails of that very
object, and even produces oftener than not, effects the very reverse of
what was designed." Reprobating very emphatically all systematic attention
to elocution as an art, this eminent author advocates what he calls the
natural manner of speaking, for the attainment of which he prescribes the
rule, "not only to pay no studied attention to the voice, but studiously to
withdraw the thoughts from it, and to dwell as intently as possible on the
sense, trusting to nature to suggest spontaneously the proper emphasis and
tones."

The true course seems to me to lie midway between these two opposite
extremes. While it is useless to attempt to reduce to exact system all the
modifications of voice to be employed in the delivery of both plain and
allegorical language, still there are many important elocutionary rules and
principles which are eminently useful for the guidance of the student.
Because Walker fell into the error of attempting to carry his principles
too far, and perplexed the student with an endless list of rules, it does
not follow that all rules should be disregarded. His rules for inflections
are, no doubt, too complex and artificial for ordinary instruction in
elocution, but those found in the works of Dr. Porter and Professor Russell
are calculated to afford important aid; and Professor Mark Bailey, in his
Introduction to "Hillard's Sixth Reader," has still further simplified the
subject. The following principles which he lays down for regulating the
inflections are at once comprehensive and practical.

"The 'rising' and 'falling' slides separate the great mass of ideas into
two distinct classes; the first comprising all the subordinate, or
incomplete, or, as we prefer to name them, the negative ideas; the second
comprising all the principal, or complete, or, as we call them, the
positive ideas.

"The most important parts of what is spoken or written, are those which
affirm something positively, such as the facts and truths asserted, the
principles, sentiments, and actions enjoined, with the illustrations, and
reasons, and appeals, which enforce them. All these may properly be grouped
into one class, because they all should have the same kind of slide in
reading. This class we call 'positive ideas.'

"So all the other ideas which do not affirm or enjoin anything positively,
which are circumstantial and incomplete, or in open contrast with the
positive, all these ideas may be properly grouped into another single
class because they all should have the same kind of slide. This class we
call 'negative ideas.'

"Positive ideas should have the falling slide; Negative ideas should have
the rising slide.

"All sincere and earnest, or, in other words, all upright and downright
ideas demand the straight, or upright and downright slides.

"All ideas which are not sincere or earnest, but are used in jest, or
irony, in ridicule, sarcasm, or mockery, in insinuation or double-meaning,
demand the crooked or circumflex slides."

These rules taken in connection with the accompanying brief but clear and
precise explanation of the meaning attached to the words positive and
negative, constitute the most admirable generalization that I have met with
in elocutionary works of more recent date than that of Dr. Rush. And,
indeed, Professor Bailey's whole treatment of that part of elocution now
under consideration, is the best illustration I can name of the middle
course which I recommend. Avoiding alike the ultra "artificial" system of
Walker and the ultra "natural" system of Whately, he combines in his
instruction the excellencies of both, without their faults. He is both
philosophical in his theory, and practical in its application. He attempts
only what is practicable. He insists on analysis, but his analysis is at
once simple and comprehensive. He classes the different kinds of
composition with respect to the emotions, as follows,--1. Unemotional; 2.
Bold; 3. Animated or joyous; 4. Subdued or pathetic; 5. Noble; 6. Grave; 7.
Ludicrous or sarcastic, 8. Impassioned,--and then indicates the
modifications of voice appropriate for each.

Now such a course of training based on such principles, especially if
pursued under a competent instructor, cannot fail to be highly beneficial.
Experience has proved it. Whately is evidently in error in wholly
proscribing attention to the voice in speaking. In learning to dance, the
pupil must pay attention to the motions of his limbs, but when practice has
made the movements familiar, his mind is withdrawn from them. They then
become natural. Just so will the student of elocution. In his disciplinary
exercises he must attend to his voice. He must become accustomed to the
correct application of tones and inflections in the delivery of passages
which illustrate them. But when he comes to practical delivery, then the
mind should be withdrawn from the manner of utterance, and concentrated
intensely upon the matter,--the thoughts and feelings to be expressed. In
private rehearsals, the management of the voice will be a very prominent
object of attention. Declamation is a sort of transition stage, or
intermediate exercise between private rehearsal and practical delivery at
the bar, in the pulpit, or on the platform, and will require more or less
attention to the voice, in proportion to the progress already made by the
pupil. Judicious practice will gradually carry him to that point where he
will wholly cease to think of his manner, and become entirely absorbed in
his subject. He then becomes natural. But even the most accomplished orator
must occasionally give some thought to his voice. When he rises to address
an audience in a new place he must consider the circumstances,--the
capacity of the apartment, the nature and temper of his auditors, &c., and
pitch his voice accordingly. In other words, the speaker must on all
occasions give a general attention to his voice,--sufficient, at least, to
adapt it to the requirements of the position in which he is placed,
modifying it in the progress of the discourse, as the necessity of the case
demands. If the matter of his discourse is very familiar, the skilful
speaker may greatly augment the effectiveness of his delivery by more
particular attention to the manner, while he will seem wholly absorbed in
the spirit and sense of what he utters.


                                 GESTURE.

The limited space allotted to this introduction will not permit a full
discussion of this topic, and I must content myself with presenting a few
general observations concerning it.

The little child, in the unconscious freedom of childhood, before his
actions and manners have been modified by the restraints of artificial
life, affords the best model of gesture. His instinct prompts him to that
visible expression of his thoughts and feelings

               "Which we are toiling all our lives to find."

And it may be assumed as a general fact that external expression, unless
repressed by habit or design, usually corresponds with internal emotion.
The great desideratum in gesture is to make the visible expression in
delivery harmonize with the audible, or, as Shakspeare has it, to "suit the
action to the word, and the word to the action."

Professor Russell, in his excellent analysis of this subject says, "The
true speaker must have a true manner; and of the five great attributes of
genuine expression in attitude and action, TRUTH stands first, followed by
FIRMNESS, FORCE, FREEDOM, and PROPRIETY. GRACE, which is sometimes added as
a sixth, is, in all true manly eloquence, but another name for the symmetry
which flows from appropriateness; and, in masculine expression, should
never be a distinct object of attention."

In order to speak well, the orator must be able to stand well, that is, he
should assume a firm but easy and graceful attitude, the weight of the body
resting principally on one foot. The distance between the feet should be
such as to give both firmness and freedom to the position One foot should
be in advance of the other, the toes being turned outward. The attitude
should vary with the thoughts and emotions expressed. Unemotional thoughts
require an attitude of repose, the body resting on the retired foot. Bold
and impassioned language requires the reverse of this. The body is thrown
forward, resting on the foot advanced. In turning from side to side, the
toes should be kept apart and the heels together.

The principal feature of bodily action consists in the proper use of the
hands. "Have not," says Quintilion, "our hand's the power of exciting, of
restraining, of beseeching, of testifying approbation, admiration, and
shame? Do they not, in pointing out places and persons, discharge the duty
of adverbs and pronouns? So amidst the great diversity of tongues-pervading
all nations and peoples, the language of the hands appears to be a language
common to all men." We stretch forth and clasp the hands when we
importunately entreat, sue, beseech, supplicate, or ask mercy. To put forth
the right hand spread open is the gesture of bounty, liberality, and a free
heart; and thus we reward, and bestow gifts. Placing with vehemence the
right fist in the left palm is a gesture commonly used to mock, chide,
insult, reproach, and rebuke. To beckon with the raised hand is a universal
sign of craving audience and entreating a favorable silence. To wave the
hand from us, the palm outward, is the gesture of repulsion, aversion,
dismissal. To shake the fist at one signifies anger and defiance and
threatening. The hands are clasped or wrung in deep sorrow, and
outstretched with the palms inward to indicate welcoming, approving, and
receiving. In shame, the hand is placed before the eyes; in earnestness and
ardor, the hands reach forward; in joy, they are thrown up, widely apart;
in exultation and triumph, the right hand is waved above the head.

"In the rhetorical actions of the hand, the happy medium ought to be
observed; for the action of the hand should be full of dignity and
magnanimous resolution, making it a liberal index of the mind." A French
writer admirably remarks that we should move the arms because we are
animated, but not try to appear animated by moving the arms.

The countenance, especially the eye, should be made to speak as well as the
tongue. It is said of Chatham, that such was the power of his eye, that he
very often cowed down an antagonist in the midst of his speech, and threw
him into confusion. It is through the eye, scarcely less than through the
tones of voice, that intercourse of soul is carried on between the speaker
and hearers. To secure this intercourse the speaker should let his soul
beam from his eye. Nor should he fail to look at his hearers, if he would
have his hearers look at him. Among the faults to be avoided in the
management of the eye, Dr. Porter notices particularly that unmeaning look
which the eye "bent on vacuity" has, resembling the inexpressive glare of
the glass eye of a wax figure; that indefinite sweep of the eye which
ranges from one side to the other of an assembly, resting nowhere; and
that tremulous, roving cast of the eye, and winking of the eyelid, which
is in direct contrast to an open, collected, manly expression of the face.

Among the faults of action to be noticed are:--1. Want of action; 2. Want
of expression of countenance; 3. A stiff, or a careless, attitude; 4. Want
of appropriateness; 5. Excess of motions of the hands and arms; 6. Too
great violence of action; 7. Too great complexity; 8. A mechanical
uniformity; 9. Tardiness, the action following the utterances when it
should accompany it, or slightly precede it.

It must not be supposed that it is necessary for the pupil to receive
training in a technical system of gesticulation before he commences his
exercises in declamation. If the student designs to qualify himself to be a
professor of elocution, he will need to study the laws of gesture in
"Austin's Chironomia," and be instructed in their application by a skillful
teacher. But this course is neither practicable nor necessary for the mass
of students. Instruction in this department should generally be of a
negative nature, and occupy itself mainly in the correction of faults. When
the pupil commences his exercises in declamation, the less said about
action the better. Freedom is the first thing to be secured, and, to attain
this end, few directions should be given and few criticisms be made, at the
outset. When the speaker has acquired some confidence, and freedom of
action, his faults may be gradually pointed out, and his attention called
to some general principles of gesture, such as have been presented
respecting the language of the hands. Pupils should be taught to observe
accurately the action of accomplished orators, not with the view to
imitating their peculiarities, but to learn their method of producing
effect by means of attitude and gesture.


                               DECLAMATION.

Declamation should be attended to in all grades of educational
institutions, from the primary school to the college, and every pupil
should be required to take his turn in the performance of the exercise. It
would be highly beneficial, if well taught. The reason why so many teachers
have no taste for it, is because they have not taken pains to qualify
themselves to teach it. Want of time is sometimes offered as an excuse for
neglecting it. But if a part of the time which is devoted to teaching
reading, were appropriately to declamation, the progress in reading itself
would be more rapid, to say nothing of other advantages which would result
from this course. I cannot too earnestly urge upon every teacher the
importance of qualifying himself for teaching well both reading and
declamation, There is no accomplishment which more effectively promotes the
success of the teacher than that of elocutionary culture,--a good voice
skillfully managed in conversation and in teaching. Without special
attention to the subject, teachers are apt to acquire certain
characteristic faults of voice, such as nasality, sharpness, harshness, and
thinness of tone, of which they are quite unconscious. Whereas, by constant
attention to the manner of using the voice, since they are in constant
practice, it might be perfected in its modulation. For want of culture in
the elocutionary art, many teachers are greatly deceived, thinking their
pupils read and declaim well when they do not.

In the management of declamation much care should be taken in the selection
of the pieces. It is best for the pupil, in the first place, after proper
advice, to exercise his own taste in the selection of his piece, which
should then be submitted to the teacher for approval. If the selection is
very appropriate, the pupil should be commended and told why the piece is
considered suitable. If the selection presented is not suitable, the pupil
should be informed on what ground it is objected to, so as to aid his
judgment in another attempt. If the pupil has made proper effort without
success, he should be assisted by the teacher. It is very important that
the selection should be suited to the capacity and progress of the pupil.
Beginners should take simple pieces, and not be allowed, as is sometimes
the case, to murder a passage from Paradise Lost, or Macbeth. Sometimes a
fault is committed on the part of the teacher, by permitting a pupil to
confine his selections to one favorite class. I have observed in certain
schools, that one particular boy would always appear in a comic piece,
another in a tragic, and so on. It would be better for the teacher to
require each pupil to speak a variety of pieces, so as to secure a more
general and comprehensive culture than would result from practice on a
single class of selections.

The choice of the piece should be determined upon a considerable period
previous to the day appointed for the public performance of the stage, so
as to afford ample time for preparation. The piece should be accurately
committed to memory, without the variation of a syllable. It should be made
familiar, so that in the delivery no effort will be required in recalling
it. The young pupil should be instructed in the best method of learning his
piece. It will generally be found best to take one sentence at a time. The
teacher's chief work consists in attending to individual private
rehearsals. The rehearsal should be a drill. The piece should be analyzed
more or less minutely, the allusions and difficult points being explained.
It should be the first aim to make the pupil understand it, not only in
its general spirit and scope, but in its particular ideas. His attention
should then be turned to the emotions which it expresses. Let it be
remembered that the paramount object should be to make the pupil
understand the meaning and feel the spirit of the piece. If he is timid
and diffident he should be encouraged. Tell him that even Daniel Webster
could not make a declamation at the first attempt; but that he did not
despair; he did not cease his efforts; he persevered and succeeded.

After the rehearsal, the pupil should have time to practice by himself and
apply and confirm the instruction received from his teacher. It must be
impressed upon his mind that if he would attain excellence he must
practice, practice, practice. He must be made to understand that the
repetition of a piece three or four times is no adequate preparation, and
that it is necessary to go over with it twenty, thirty, or fifty times, if
he would excel, and take a high rank.

When the declamation takes place, excepting on public occasions, the
criticisms ought to be made immediately after the performance of each
speaker. The faults of the diffident should be mildly criticized. It is
very important to call attention to points of special excellence in any
performance. It should be remembered that judicious commendation is a most
powerful stimulant to exertion.

The most difficult task in teaching declamation is to develop that
indescribable fervor, that unaffected earnestness of manner which always
captivates the hearers, and wins the highest marks at an exhibition for
prizes. There will always be one speaker in a school who excels all the
rest in this quality. The teacher should point out the peculiar excellence
of this speaker, and show wherein it differs from loudness of voice, and
violence of actions and affected passion. Let it be remembered that the
perfection of declamation consists in delivering the piece as though it
were real speaking. The speaker must "put himself in imagination, so
completely into the situation of him whom he personages, and adopt for the
moment, so perfectly, all the sentiments and views of that character, as to
express himself exactly as such a person would have done, in the supposed
situation." Give the speaker every other quality--let his enunciation, his
modulation of voice, and his action be faultless, and yet without
earnestness, real earnestness,--not the semblance of it, not boisterous
vociferation, not convulsive gesticulation, but genuine emotion felt in the
heart, carrying the conviction to the hearers that the sentiments uttered
are real, the spontaneous, irrepressible outpouring of the thought and
feeling of the speaker,--without this sovereign, crowning quality, he
cannot be said to speak with eloquence. To bring out and develop this
highest quality of delivery, requires the highest skill in the teacher.
Unless the teacher possesses some degree of this quality himself he cannot
develop it in his pupils.

The best immediate preparation for speaking is rest. I have often noticed
that speakers at exhibitions have in many cases failed to do themselves
justice from sheer exhaustion. A day or two of repose previous to speaking,
enables the speaker to bring to the performance that vigor of the faculties
which is indispensable to the highest success, Webster told the Senate, and
truly, no doubt, that he slept soundly on the night previous to the
delivery of his second speech on Foote's resolution, which is considered
his greatest parliamentary effort. It is well for the speaker to remember
what Mr. Everett said in allusion to this fact: "So the great Cond slept
on the eve of the battle of Rocroi, so Alexander slept on the eve of the
battle of Arbela, and so they awoke to deeds of immortal fame."

The best training cannot make good readers and good speakers of all pupils,
but it can do much. And it is a fact worthy of observation that those who
are most sceptical as to the possibilities of elocutionary culture, are
invariably those who are themselves unskillful teachers in this branch.





                                BOOK FIRST.

                            STANDARD SELECTIONS

                                    FOR

                        RECITATION AND DECLAMATION

                           IN PROSE AND POETRY.



                                BOOK FIRST.

                           STANDARD SELECTIONS.

                                   PROSE.


                    I. THE NOBLE PURPOSES OF ELOQUENCE.

If we consider the noble purposes to which Eloquence may be made
subservient, we at once perceive its prodigious import ance to the best
interests of mankind. The greatest masters of the art have concurred, upon
the greatest occasions of its display, in pronouncing that its estimation
depends on the virtuous and rational use made of it.

It is but reciting the common praises of the Art of Persuasion, to remind
you how sacred truths may be most ardently promulgated at the altar--the
cause of oppressed innocence be most woefully defended--the march of
wicked rulers be most triumphantly resisted--defiance the most terrible be
hurled at the oppressor's head. In great convulsions of public affairs, or
in bringing about salutary changes, every one confesses how important an
ally eloquence must be. But in peaceful times, when the progress of events
is slow and even as the silent and unheeded pace of time, and the jars of a
mighty tumult in foreign and domestic concerns can no longer be heard,
then, too, she flourishes--protectress of liberty--patroness of
improvement--guardian of all the blessings that can be showered upon the
mass of human kind;--nor is her form ever seen but on ground consecrated to
free institutions.

To me, calmly revolving these things, such pursuits seem far more noble
objects of ambition than any upon which the vulgar herd of busy men lavish
prodigal their restless exertions. To diffuse useful information, to
further intellectual refinement, sure forerunner of moral improvement,--to
hasten the coming of the bright day when the dawn of general knowledge
shall chase away the lazy, lingering class, even from the base of the great
social pyramid;--this indeed is a high calling, in which the most splendid
talents and consummate virtue may well press onward, eager to bear a part.
                                                             Lord Brougham.


                                    II.

                          ROLLA TO THE PERUVIANS.

My brave associates--partners of my toil, my feelings, and my fame! Can
Rolla's words add vigor to the virtuous energies which inspire your
hearts?--No! You have judged, as I have, the foulness of the crafty plea,
by which these bold invaders would delude you. Your generous spirit has
compared, as mine has, the motives which, in a war like this, can animate
their minds and ours.

They, by a strange frenzy driven, fight for power, for plunder, and
extended rule;--we, for our country, our altars, and our homes. They follow
an adventurer whom they fear, and obey a power which they hate;--we serve a
monarch whom we love,--a God whom we adore. Wherever they move in anger,
desolation tracks their progress. Wherever they pause in amity, affliction
mourns their friendship.

They boast they come but to improve our state, enlarge our thoughts, and
free us from the yoke of error! Yes;--they will give enlightened freedom to
our minds, who are themselves the slaves of passion, avarice, and pride.
They offer us their protection! Yes, such protections as vultures give to
lambs,--covering and devouring them! They call on us to barter all the good
we have inherited and proved, for the desperate chance of something better,
which they promise!

Be our plain answer this: The throne we honor is the People's choice,--the
laws we reverence are our brave fathers' legacy,--the faith we follow
teaches us to live in bonds of charity with all mankind, and die with hope
of bliss beyond the grave. Tell your invaders this; and tell them too, we
seek no change; and, least of all, such change as they would bring us!
                                                            R. B. Sheridan.


                                   III.

                    INVECTIVE AGAINST WARREN HASTINGS.

If, my Lords, a stranger had at this time gone into the province of Oude,
ignorant of what had happened since the death of Sujah Dowlah--that prince
who with a savage heart had still great lines of character, and who, with
all his ferocity in war, had, with a cultivating hand, preserved to his
country the wealth which it derived from benignant skies and a prolific
soil--if, ignorant of all that had happened in the short interval, and
observing the wide and general devastation of fields unclothed and brown;
of vegetation burned up and extinguished; of villages depopulated and in
ruins; of temples unroofed and perishing; of reservoirs broken down and
dry, this stranger should ask, "what has thus laid waste this beautiful and
opulent land; what monstrous madness has ravaged with wide-spread war; what
desolating foreign foe; what civil discords; what disputed succession;
what religious zeal; what fabled monster has stalked abroad, and, with
malice and mortal enmity to man, withered by the grasp of death every
growth of nature and humanity, all means of delight, and each original,
simple principle of bare existence?" the answer would have been, not one of
these causes! No wars have ravaged these lands and depopulated these
villages! No desolating foreign foe! No domestic broils! No disputed
succession! No religious super-serviceable zeal! No poisonous monster! No
affliction of Providence, which, while it scourged us, cut off the sources
of resuscitation! No! This damp of death is the mere effusion of British
amity! We sink under the pressure of their support! We writhe under their
perfidious gripe! They have embraced us with their protecting arms, and lo!
these are the fruits of their alliance!

What then, my Lords, shall we bear to be told that, under such
circumstances, the exasperated feelings of a whole people, thus spurred on
to clamor and resistance, were excited by the poor and feeble influence of
the Begums? After hearing the description given by an eye-witness of the
paroxysm of fever and delirium into which despair threw the natives when on
the banks of the polluted Ganges, panting for breath, they tore more widely
open the lips of their gaping wounds, to accelerate their dissolution; and
while their blood was issuing, presented their ghastly eyes to heaven,
breathing their last and fervent prayer that the dry earth might not be
suffered to drink their blood, but that it might rise up to the throne of
God, and rouse the eternal Providence to avenge the wrongs of their
country,--will it be said that all this was brought about by the
incantations of these Begums in their secluded Zenana; or that they could
inspire this enthusiasm and this despair into the breasts of a people who
felt no grievance, and had suffered no torture?

What motive, then, could have such influence in their bosom? What motive!
That which nature, the common parent, plants in the bosom of man; and
which, though it may be less active in the Indian than in the Englishman,
is still congenial with, and makes a part of his being. That feeling which
tells him that man was never made to be the property of man; but that, when
in the pride and insolence of power, one human creature dares to tyrannize
over another, it is a power usurped, and resistance is a duty. That
principle which tells him that resistance to power usurped is not merely a
duty which he owes to himself and to his neighbor, but a duty which he owes
to his God, in asserting and maintaining the rank which he gave him in his
creation--that God, who, where he gives the form of man, whatever may be
the complexion, gives also the feelings and the rights of man. That
principle which neither the rudeness of ignorance can stifle, nor the
enervation of refinement extinguish! That principle which makes it base for
a man to suffer when he ought to act; which, tending to preserve to the
species the original designations of Providence, spurns at the arrogant
distinctions of man, and indicates the independent quality of his race.
                                                            R. B. Sheridan.


                                    IV.

                        THE BIBLE THE BEST CLASSIC

The Bible is the only book which God has ever sent, and the only one he
ever will send into the world. All other books are frail and transient as
time, since they are only the registers of time; but the Bible is as
durable as eternity, for its pages contain the records of eternity. All
other books are weak and imperfect, like their author, man; but the Bible
is a transcript of infinite power and perfection. Every other volume is
limited in its usefulness and influence; but the Bible came forth
conquering and to conquer,--rejoicing as a giant to run his course,--and
like the sun, "there is nothing hid from the heat thereof." The Bible only,
of all the myriads of books the world has seen, is equally important and
interesting to all mankind. Its tidings, whether of peace or of woe, are
the same to the poor, the ignorant, and the weak as to the rich, the wise,
and the powerful.

Among the most remarkable of its attributes, is justice; for it looks with
impartial eyes on kings and on slaves, on the hero and the soldier, on
philosophers and peasants, on the eloquent and the dumb. From all, it
exacts the same obedience to its commandments: to the good, it promises the
fruits of his labors; to the evil, the reward of his hands. Nor are the
purity and holiness, the wisdom, benevolence, and truth of the Scriptures
less conspicuous than their justice. In sublimity and beauty, in the
descriptive and pathetic, in dignity and simplicity of narrative, in power
and comprehensiveness, in depth and variety of thought, in purity and
elevation of sentiment, the most enthusiastic admirers of the heathen
classics have conceded their inferiority to the Scriptures.

The Bible, indeed, is the only universal classic, the classic of all
mankind, of every age and country of time and eternity; more humble and
simple than the primer of a child, more grand and magnificent than the epic
and the oration, the ode and the dramas when genius, with his chariot of
fire, and his horses of ire, ascends in whirlwind into the heaven of his
own invention. It is the best classic the world has ever seen, the noblest
that has ever honored and dignified the language of mortals!

If you boast that the Aristotles and the Platos, and the Tullies of the
classic age, "dipped their pens in intellect," the sacred authors dipped
theirs in inspiration. If those were the "secretaries of nature," these
were the secretaries of the very Author of nature. If Greece and Rome have
gathered into their cabinet of curiosities the pearls of heathen poetry and
eloquence, the diamonds of pagan history and philosophy, God himself has
treasured up in the Scriptures, the poetry and eloquence, the philosophy
and history of sacred law-givers, of prophets and apostles, of saints,
evangelists, and martyrs. In vain you may seek for the pure and simple
light of universal truth in the Augustan ages of antiquity. In the Bible
only, is the poet's wish fulfilled,--
               "And like the sun be all one boundless eye."
                                                              T. S. Grimk.


                                    V.

                         WHAT WE OWE TO THE SWORD.

To the question, "What have the People ever gained but by Revolution?" I
answer, boldly, If by revolution be understood the law of the sword,
Liberty has lost far more than she ever gained by it. The sword was the
destroyer of the Lycian Confederacy and the Achan League. The sword
alternately enslaved and disenthralled Thebes and Athens, Sparta, Syracuse,
and Corinth. The sword of Rome conquered every other free State, and
finished the murder of Liberty in the ancient world, by destroying herself.
What but the sword, in modern times, annihilated the Republics of Italy,
the Hanseatic Towns, and the primitive independence of Ireland, Wales, and
Scotland? What but the sword partitioned Poland, assassinated the rising
liberty of Spain, banished the Huguenots from France, and made Cromwell the
master, not the servant, of the People? And what but the sword of
Republican France destroyed the independence of half of Europe, deluged the
continent with tears, devoured its millions upon millions, and closed the
long catalogue of guilt, by founding and defending to the last, the most
powerful, selfish, and insatiable of military despotisms?

The sword, indeed, delivered Greece from the Persian invader, expelled the
Tarquins from Rome, emancipated Switzerland and Holland, restored the
Prince to his throne, and brought Charles to the scaffold. And the sword
redeemed the pledge of the Congress of '76 when they plighted to each other
"their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor." And yet, what would
the redemption of that pledge have availed towards the establishment of our
present government, if the spirit of American institutions had not been
both the birthright and the birth-blessing of the Colonies? The Indians,
the French, the Spaniards, and even England herself, warred in vain against
a people, born and bred in the household, at the domestic altar of Liberty
herself They had never been slaves, for they were born free. The sword was
a herald to proclaim their freedom, but it neither created nor preserved
it. A century and a half had already beheld them free in infancy, free in
youth, free in early manhood. Theirs was already the spirit of American
institutions; the spirit of Christian freedom of a temperate, regulated
freedom, of a rational civil obedience. For such a people the sword, the
law of violence, did and could do nothing but sever the bonds which bound
her colonial wards to their unnatural guardian. They redeemed their pledge,
sword in hand; but the sword left them as it found them, unchanged in
character, freemen in thought and in deed, instinct with the immortal
spirit of American institutions.
                                                               T. S Grimk.


                                    VI.

                  DUTY OF LITERARY MEN TO THEIR COUNTRY.

We cannot honor our country with too deep a reverence; we cannot love her
with an affection too pure and fervent; we cannot serve her with an energy
of purpose or a faithfulness of zeal too steadfast and ardent. And what is
our country? It is not the East, with her hills and her valleys, with her
countless sails and the rocky ramparts of her shores. It is not the North,
with her thousand villages, and her harvest-home, with her frontiers of the
lake and the ocean. It is not the West, with her forrest-sea and her
inland-isles, with her luxuriant expanses, clothed in the verdant corn,
with her beautiful Ohio and her majestic Missouri. Nor is it yet the South,
opulent in the mimic snow of the cotton, in the rich plantations of the
rustling cane, and in the golden robes of the rice-field. What are these
but the sister families of one greater, better, holier family,--our
country?

I come not here to speak the dialect, or to give the counsels of the
patriot-statesman. But I come, a patriot scholar, to vindicate the rights
and to plead for the interests of American Literature. And be assured, that
we cannot, as patriot-scholars, think too highly of that country, or
sacrifice too much for her. And let us never forget, let us rather remember
with a religious awe,--that the union of these States is indispensable to
our literature, as it is to our national independence and civil
liberties,--to our prosperity, happiness, and improvement.

If, indeed, we desire to behold a literature like that which has sculptured
with so much energy of expression, which has painted so faithfully and
vividly, the crimes, the vices, the follies of ancient and modern
Europe;--if we desire that our land should furnish for the orator and the
novelist, for the painter and the poet, age after age, the wild and
romantic scenery of war; the glittering march of armies, and the revelry of
the camp; the shrieks and blasphemies, and all the horrors of the
battle-field; the desolation of the harvest, and the burning cottage; the
storm, the sack, and the ruin of cities;--if we desire to unchain the
furious passions of jealousy and selfishness, of hatred, revenge, and
ambition, those lions that now sleep harmless in their den;--if we desire
that the lake, the river, the ocean, should blush with the blood of
brothers; that the winds should waft from the land to the sea, from the sea
to the land, the roar and the smoke of battle, that the very mountain-tops
should become altars for the sacrifice of brothers;--if we desire that
these, and such as these,--the elements, to an incredible extent, of the
literature of the Old World,--should be the elements of our literature;
then, but then only, let us hurl from its pedestal the majestic statue of
our Union, and scatter its fragments over all our land.

But, if we covet for our country the noblest, purest, loveliest literature
the world has ever seen,--such a literature as shall honor God, and bless
mankind,--a literature, whose smiles might play upon an angel's face, whose
tears "would not stain an angel's cheek,"--then let us cling to the Union
of these State's with a patriot's love, with a scholar's enthusiasm, with a
Christian's hope.

In her heavenly character, as a holocaust self-sacrificed to God; at the
height of her glory, as the ornament of a free, educated, peaceful
Christian people, American Literature will find that THE INTELLECTUAL
SPIRIT IS HER VERY TREE OF LIFE, AND THE UNION HER GARDEN OF PARADISE.
                                                              T. S. Grimk.


                                   VII.

                     AMERICA'S OBLIGATIONS TO ENGLAND.

The honorable member has asked--"And now will these Americans, children
planted by our care, nourished up by our indulgence and protected by our
arms,--will they grudge to attribute their mite?" They planted by your
care! No; your oppressions planted them in America! They fled from your
tyranny to a then uncultivated and inhospitable country, where they exposed
themselves to almost all the hardships to which human nature is liable;
and, among others, to the cruelties of a savage foe the most subtle, and I
will take upon me to say the most formidable, of any people upon the face
of the earth; and yet, actuated by principles of true English liberty our
American brethren met all the hardships with pleasure, compared with those
they steered in their own country from the hands of those that should have
been their friends.

They nourished by your indulgence! They grew by your neglect of them! As
soon as you began to care about them, that care was exercised in sending
persons to rule them, in one department and another, who were, perhaps, the
deputies of deputies to some members of this House, sent to spy out their
liberties, to misrepresent their actions, and to prey upon them;--men whose
behavior, on many occasions, has caused the blood of those sons of liberty
to recoil within them; men promoted to the highest seats of justice,--some
who, to my knowledge, were glad by going to a foreign country, to escape
being brought to the bar of a court of justice in their own.

They protected by your arms! They have nobly taken up arms in your
defence;--have exerted a valor, amid their constant and laborious industry,
for the defence of a country whose frontier was drenched in blood, while
its interior parts yielded all its little savings to your emolument. And,
believe me,--remember I this day told you so,--that same spirit of freedom
which actuated that people at first will accompany them still; but prudence
forbids me to explain myself further.

Heaven knows I do not at this time speak from motives of party heat. What I
deliver are the genuine sentiments of my heart. However superior to me, in
general knowledge and experience, the respectable body of this House may
be, yet I claim to know more of America than most of you, having seen that
country and been conversant with its affairs. The people, I believe, are as
truly loyal as any subjects the king has; but they are a people jealous of
their liberties, and who, if those liberties should ever be violated, will
vindicate them to the last drop of their blood.
                                                               Isaac Barr.


                                   VIII.

                   WEBSTER'S PLEA FOR DARTMOUTH COLLEGE.

The Supreme Court of the United States held its session that winter in a
mean apartment of moderate size--the Capitol not having been built after
its destruction in 1814. The audience, when the case came on, was therefore
small, consisting chiefly of legal men, the lite of the profession
throughout the country. Mr. Webster entered upon his argument in the calm
tone of easy and dignified conversation. His matter was so completely at
his command that he scarcely looked at his brief, but went on for more than
four hours with a statement so luminous, and a chain of reasoning so easy
to be understood, and yet approaching so nearly to absolute demonstration,
that he seemed to carry with him every man of his audience without the
slightest effort or weariness on either side. It was hardly eloquence, in
the strict sense of the term; it was pure reason. Now and then, for a
sentence or two, his eye flashed and his voice swelled into a bolder note,
as he uttered some emphatic thought; but he instantly fell back into the
tone of earnest conversation, which ran throughout the great body of his
speech.

The argument ended. Mr. Webster stood for some moments silent before the
court, while every eye was fixed intently upon him. At length, addressing
the chief justice, Marshall, he proceeded thus:--

"This, Sir, is my case! It is the case, not merely of that humble
institution, it is the case of every college in our land. It is more. It is
the case of every eleemosynary institution throughout the country,--of all
those great charities founded by the piety of our ancestors to alleviate
human misery; and scatter blessings along the pathway of life. It is more!
It is, in some sense, the case of every man among us who has property of
which he may be stripped; for the question is simply this: Shall our State
legislatures be allowed to take that which is not their own, to turn it
from its original use, and apply it to such ends or purposes as they, in
their discretion, shall see fit?

"Sir, you may destroy this little institution; it is weak; it is in your
hands! I know it is one of the lesser lights in the literary horizon of our
country. You may put it out. But if you do so, you must carry through your
work! You must extinguish one after another, all those great lights of
science which, for more than a century, have thrown their radiance over our
land!

"It is, Sir, as I have said, a small college. And yet, there are those who
love it----."

Here the feelings which he had thus far succeeded in keeping down, broke
forth. His lips quivered; his firm cheeks trembled with emotion; his eyes
were filled with tears, his voice choked, and he seemed struggling to the
utmost simply to gain that mastery over himself which might save him from
an unmanly burst of feeling. I will not attempt to give you the few broken
words of tenderness in which he went on to speak of his attachment to the
college. The whole seemed to be mingled throughout with the recollections
of father, mother, brother, and all the trials and privations through which
he had made his way into life. Every one saw that it was wholly
unpremeditated, a pressure on his heart, which sought relief in words and
tears.

The court-room during these two or three minutes presented an extraordinary
spectacle. Chief Justice Marshall, with his tall and gaunt figure, bent
over as if to catch the slightest whisper, the deep furrows of his cheek
expanded with emotion, and eyes suffused with tears. Mr. Justice Washington
at his side,--with his small and emaciated frame, and countenance more like
marble than I ever saw on any other human being,--leaning forward with an
eager, troubled look; and the remainder of the court, at the two
extremities, pressing, as it were, toward a single point, while the
audience below were wrapping themselves round in closer folds beneath the
bench to catch each look and every movement of the speaker's face. If a
painter could give us the scene on canvas,--those forms and countenances,
and Daniel Webster as he then stood in the midst,--it would be one of the
most touching pictures in the history of eloquence. One thing it taught me,
that the pathetic depends not merely on the words uttered, but still more
on the estimate we put upon him who utters them. There was not one among
the strong-minded men of that assembly who could think it unmanly to weep,
when he saw standing before him the man who had made such an argument,
melted into the tenderness of a child.

Mr. Webster had now recovered his composure, and fixing his keen eye on the
Chief Justice, said in that deep tone with which he sometimes thrilled the
heart of an audience,--

"Sir, I know not how others feel, (glancing at the opponents of the college
before him,) but, for myself when I see my Alma Mater surrounded, like
Caesar in the senate-house, by those who are reiterating stab upon stab, I
would not, for my right hand, have her turn to me, and say Et tu quoque, mi
fili! And thou, too, my son!"

He sat down. There was a deathlike stillness throughout the room for some
moments; every one seemed to be slowly recovering himself and coming
gradually back to his ordinary range of thought and feeling.
                                                            C. A. Goodrich.


                                    IX.

                          THE FOUNDERS OF BOSTON.

On this occasion, it is proper to speak of the founders of Our city, and of
their glory. Now in its true acceptation, the term glory expresses the
splendor which emanates from virtue, in the act of producing general and
permanent good. Right conceptions, then, of the glory of our ancestors, are
to be obtained only by analyzing their virtues. These virtues, indeed, are
not seen charactered in breathing bronze, or in living marble. Our
ancestors have left no Corinthian temples on our hills, no Gothic
cathedrals on our plains, no proud pyramid, no storied obelisk, in our
cities. But mind is there. Sagacious enterprise is there. An active,
vigorous, intelligent, moral population throng our cities, and predominate
in our fields;--men, patient of labor, submissive to law, respectful to
authority, regardful of right, faithful to liberty. These are the monuments
of our ancestors. They stand immutable and immortal, in the social, moral,
and intellectual condition of their descendants. They exist in the spirit
which their precepts instilled, and their example implanted.

It was to this spot, during twelve successive years, that the real body of
those just settlers emigrated. In this place, they either fixed permanently
their abode, or took their departure from it, for the coast or the
interior. Whatever honor devolves on this metropolis, from the events
connected with its first settlement, is not solitary or exclusive; it is
shared with Massachusetts; with New England; in some sense, with the whole
United States. For what part of this wide empire, be it sea or shore, lake
or river, mountain or valley, have the descendants of the first settlers of
New England not traversed; what depth of forest not penetrated? what danger
of nature or man not defied? Where is the cultivated field, in redeeming
which from the wilderness, their vigor has not been displayed? Where, amid
unsubdued nature, by the side of the first log-hut of the settler, does the
school-house stand, and the church-spire rise, unless the sons of New
England are there? Where does improvement advance, under the active energy
of willing hearts and ready hands, prostrating the moss-covered monarch of
the wood, and from their ashes, amid their charred roots, bidding the green
sward and the waving harvest to unspring, and the spirit of the fathers of
New England is not seen, hovering and shedding around the benign influences
of sound, social, moral, and religious institutions, stronger and more
enduring than knotted oak or tempered steel? The swelling tide of their
descendants has spread upon our coasts, ascended our rivers, taken
possession of our plains. Already it encircles our lakes. At this hour, the
rushing noise of the advancing wave startles the wild beast in his lair
among the prairies of the West. Soon it shall be seen climbing the Rocky
Mountains, and, as it dashes over their cliffs, shall be hailed by the
dwellers on the Pacific, as the harbinger of the coming blessings of
safety, liberty, and truth.
                                                              Pres. Quincy.


                                    X.

                           THE AMERICAN SAILOR.

Look to your history--that part of it which the world knows by heart,--and
you will find on its brightest page the glorious achievements of the
American sailor. Whatever his country has done to disgrace him, and break
his spirit, he has never disgraced her;--he has always been ready to serve
her; he always has served her faithfully and effectually. He has often
been weighed in the balance, and never found wanting. The only fault ever
found with him is, that he sometimes fights ahead of his orders. The world
has no match for him, man for man; and he asks no odds, and he cares for no
odds, when the cause of humanity or the glory of his country calls him to
fight.

Who, in the darkest days of our Revolution, carried your flag into the very
chops of the British Channel, bearded the lion in his den, and woke the
echoes of old Albion's hills by the thunders of his cannon, and the shouts
of his triumph? It was the American sailor. And the names of John Paul
Jones, and the Bon Homme Richard, will go down the annals of time forever.
Who struck the first blow that humbled the Barbary flag--which, for a
hundred years, had been the terror of Christendom,--drove it from the
Mediterranean, and put an end to the infamous tribute it had been
accustomed to extort? It was the American sailor, and the name of Decatur
and his gallant companions will be as lasting as monumental brass.

In the year 1812, when your arms on shore were covered by disaster,--when
Winchester had been defeated, when the army of the Northwest had
surrendered, and when the feeling of despondency hung like a cloud over the
land,--who first relit the fires of national glory, and made the welkin
ring with the shouts of victory? It was the American sailor. And the names
of Hull and the Constitution will be remembered as long as we have left
anything worth remembering.

The wand of British invincibility was broken when the flag of the Guerrire
came down. That one event was worth more to the Republic than all the money
which has ever been expended for the navy. Since that day the navy has had
no stain upon its escutcheon, but has been cherished as your pride and
glory. And the American sailor has established a reputation throughout the
world,--in peace and in war, in storm and in battle,--for heroism and
prowess unsurpassed. He shrinks from no danger, he dreads no foe, he yields
to no superior. No shoals are too dangerous, no seas too boisterous, no
climate too rigorous for him. The burning sun of the tropic cannot make him
effeminate, nor can the eternal winter of the polar seas paralyze his
energies.
                                                            R. F. Stockton.


                                    XI.

              MORALITY, THE FOUNDATION OF NATIONAL GREATNESS.

When we look forward to the probable growth of this country; when we think
of the millions of human beings who are to spread over our present
territory; of the career of improvement and glory open to this new people;
of the impulse which free institutions, if prosperous, may be expected to
give to philosophy, religion, science, literature, and arts; of the vast
field in which the experiment is to be made, of what the unfettered powers
of man may achieve; of the bright page of history which our fathers have
filled, and of the advantages under which their toils and virtues have
placed us for carrying on their work;--when we think of all this, can we
help, for a moment, surrendering ourselves to bright visions of our
country's glory before which all the glories of the past are to fade away?

Is it presumption to say that, if just to ourselves and all nations, we
shall be felt through this whole continent, that we shall spread our
language, institutions, and civilization, through a wider space than any
nation has yet filled with a like beneficent influence? And are we prepared
to barter these hopes, this sublime moral empire, for conquests by force?
Are we prepared to sink to the level of unprincipled nations, to content
ourselves with a vulgar, guilty greatness, to adopt in our youth maxims and
ends which must brand our future with sordidness, aggression, and shame?
This country cannot, without peculiar infamy, run the common race of
national rapacity. Our origin, institutions, and position are peculiar, and
all favor an upright honorable course.

Why cannot we rise to noble conceptions of our destiny? Why do we not feel,
that our work as a nation is to carry freedom, religion, science, and a
noble form of human nature over this continent? And why do we not remember,
that to diffuse these blessings we must first cherish them in our own
borders; and that whatever deeply and permanently corrupts us, will make
our spreading influence a curse, not a blessing, to this new world? I am
not prophet enough to read our fate. I believe, indeed, that we are to make
our futurity for ourselves. I believe, that a nation's destiny lies in its
character, in the principles which govern its policy, and bear rule in the
hearts of its citizens. I take my stand on God's moral and eternal law. A
nation, renouncing and defying this, cannot be free, cannot be great.
                                                            W. E. Channing.


                                   XII.

                               INTEMPERANCE.

Among the evils of intemperance, much importance is given to the poverty of
which it is the cause. But this evil, great as it is, is yet light, in
comparison with the essential evil of intemperance. What matters it, that a
man be poor, if he carry into his poverty the spirit, energy, reason, and
virtues of a man? What matters it, that a man must, for a few years, live
on bread and water? How many of the richest are reduced, by disease, to a
worse condition than this? Honest, virtuous, noble-minded poverty, is
comparatively a light evil. The ancient philosopher chose it, as a
condition of virtue. It has been the lot of many a Christian.

The poverty of the intemperate man owes its great misery to its cause. He
who makes himself a beggar, by having made himself a brute, is miserable
indeed. He who has no solace, who has only agonizing recollections and
harrowing remorse, as he looks on his cold hearth, his scanty table, his
ragged children, has indeed to bear a crushing weight of woe. That he
suffers, is a light thing. That he has brought on himself this suffering by
the voluntary extinction of his reason, that is the terrible thought, the
intolerable curse.

Intemperance is to be pitied and abhorred for its own sake, much more than
for its outward consequences. These owe their chief bitterness to their
criminal source. We speak of the miseries which the drunkard carries to his
family. But take away his own brutality, and how lightened would be these
miseries! We talk of his wife and children in rags. Let the rags continue;
but suppose them to be the effects of an innocent cause. Suppose his wife
and children bound to him by a strong love, which a life of labor for their
support, and of unlearned kindness has awakened; suppose them to know that
his toils for their welfare had broken down his frame; suppose him able to
say, "We are poor in this world's goods, but rich in affection and
religious trust. I am going from you; but I leave you to the Father of the
fatherless, and to the widow's God." Suppose this; and how changed these
rags!--how changed the cold, naked room! The heart's warmth can do much to
withstand the winter's cold;--and there is hope, there is honor, in this
virtuous indigence.

What breaks the heart of the drunkard's wife? It is not that he is poor,
but that he is a drunkard. Instead of that bloated face, now distorted with
passion, now robbed of every gleam of intelligence, if the wife could look
on an affectionate countenance, which had, for years, been the interpreter
of a well-principled mind and faithful heart, what an overwhelming load
would be lifted from her! It is a husband, whose touch is polluting, whose
infirmities are the witness of his guilt, who has blighted all her hopes,
who has proved false to the vow which made her his; it is such a husband
who makes home a hell,--not one whom toil and disease and Providence have
cast on the care of wife and children.

We look too much at the consequences of vice,--too little at the vice
itself. It is vice which is the chief weight of what we call its
consequences,--vice, which is the bitterness in the cup of human woe.
                                                            W. E. Channing.


                                   XIII.

                        INCONSISTENT EXPECTATIONS.

This world may be considered as a great mart of commerce, where fortune
exposes to our view various commodities,--riches, ease, tranquillity, fame,
integrity, knowledge. Everything is marked at a settled price,--our time,
our labor, our ingenuity, is so much ready money, which we are to lay out
to the best advantage. Examine, compare, choose, reject; but stand to your
own judgment, and do not, like children, when you have purchased one thing,
repine that you do not possess another which you did not purchase.

Such is the force of well-regulated industry that a steady and vigorous
exertion of our faculties, directed to one end, will generally insure
success. Would you, for instance, be rich? Do you think that single point
worth the sacrifice of everything else? You may then be rich. Thousands
have become so, from the lowest beginnings, by toil, and patient diligence,
and attention to the minutest articles of expense and profit. But you must
give up the pleasures of leisure, of mental ease, of a free, unsuspicious
temper. If you preserve your integrity, it must be a coarse-spun and vulgar
honesty. Those high and lofty notions of morals which you brought with you
from the schools, must be considerably lowered, and mixed with the baser
alloy of a jealous and worldly-minded prudence. You must learn to do hard,
lf not unjust things; and as for the nice embarrassments of a delicate and
ingenuous spirit, it is necessary to get rid of them as fast as possible.
You must shut your heart against the Muses, and be content to feed your
understanding with plain household truths. In short, you must not attempt
to enlarge your ideas, or polish your taste, or refine your sentiments, but
must keep on in one beaten track, without turning aside either to the right
or to the left. "But you say, I cannot submit to drudgery like this; I feel
a spirit above it." 'Tis well, be above it then; only do not repine that
you are not rich.

Is knowledge the pearl of price in your estimation? That, toy may be
purchased by steady application, and long solitary study and reflection.
Bestow these, and you shall be learned. "But," says the man of letters,
"what a hardship is it, that many an illiterate fellow, who cannot construe
the motto of the arms on his coach, shall raise a fortune and make a
figure, while I have little more than the common conveniences of life!" Was
it, then, to raise a fortune, that you consumed the sprightly hours of
youth in study and retirement? Was it to be rich that you grew pale over
the midnight lamp, and distilled the sweetness from the Greek and Roman
springs? You have then mistaken your path, and ill employed your industry.
"What reward have I then, for all my labor?" What reward! A large,
comprehensive soul, well purged from vulgar fears, and perturbations, and
prejudices; able to comprehend and interpret the works of man,--of God; a
rich, flourishing, cultivated mind, furnished with inexhaustible stores of
entertainment and reflection; a perpetual spring of fresh ideas, and the
conscious dignity of superior intelligence. Good Heaven! What other reward
can you ask besides!

"But is it not some reproach upon the economy of Providence, that such a
one, who is a mean, dirty fellow, should have amassed wealth enough to buy
half a nation?" Not in the least. He made himself a mean, dirty fellow for
that very end. He has paid his health, his conscience, his liberty for it;
and will you envy him his bargain? Will you hang your head and blush in his
presence, because he outshines you in equipage and show? Lift up your brow
with a noble confidence, and say to yourself "I have not these things, it
is true; but it is because I have not sought, because I have not desired
them; it is because I possess something better. I have chosen my lot; I am
content and satisfied." The characteristic mark of a great and noble mind
is to choose some high and worthy object, and pursue that object through
life.
                                                             Mrs. Barbauld.


                                   XIV.

                      THE PATRIOT'S SWORD VINDICATED.

But my Lord, I dissented from the resolutions before us, for other reasons.
I dissented from them, because I felt that my giving them my assent, I
should have pledged myself to the unqualified repudiation of physical force
in all countries, at all times, and under every circumstance. This I could
not do. For, my Lord, I do not abhor the use of arms in the vindication of
national rights. There are times, when arms will alone suffice, and when
political ameliorations call for a drop of blood, and many thousand drops
of blood. Opinion, I admit, will operate against opinion. But, as the
honorable member for Kilkenny has observed, force must be used against
force. The soldier is proof against an argument, but he is not proof
against a bullet The man that will listen to reason, let him be reasoned
with. But it is the weaponed arm of the patriot that can alone prevail
against battalioned despotism.

Then, my Lord, I do not condemn the use of arms as immoral, nor do I
conceive it profane to say that the King of Heaven--the Lord of Hosts! the
God of Battles!--bestows his benediction upon those who unsheathe the sword
in the hour of a nation's peril. From that evening, on which, in the valley
of Bethulia, he nerved the arm of the Jewish girl to smite the drunken
tyrant in his tent, down to our day in which he has blessed the insurgent
chivalry of the Belgian priest, his almighty hand hath ever been stretched
forth from his Throne of Light, to consecrate the flag of freedom--to bless
the patriot's sword! Be it in the defense, or be it in the assertion of a
people's liberty, I hail the sword as a sacred weapon; and if, my Lord, it
has sometimes taken the shape of the serpent and reddened the shroud of
the oppressor with too deep a dye, like the anointed rod of the High
Priest, it has at other times, and as often, blossomed into celestial
flowers to deck the freeman's brow.

Abhor the sword--stigmatize the sword? No, my Lord, for, in the passes of
the Tyrol, it cut to pieces the banner of the Bavarian, and, through those
cragged passes, struck a path to fame for the present insurrectionist of
Inspruck!

Abhor the sword--stigmatize the sword? No, my Lord; for at its blow, a
giant nation started from the waters of the Atlantic, and by its redeeming
magic, and in the quivering of its crimson light, the crippled Colony
sprang into the attitude of a proud Republic--prosperous, limitless, and
invincible!

Abhor the sword--stigmatize the sword? No, my Lord; for it swept the Dutch
marauders out of the fine old towns of Belgium--scourged them back to their
own phlegmatic swamps--and knocked their flag and scepter, their laws and
bayonets into the sluggish waters of the Scheldt.

My Lord, I learned that it was the right of a nation to govern herself--not
in this hall, but upon the ramparts of Antwerp. This, the first article of
a nation's creed, I learned upon those ramparts, where freedom was justly
estimated, and the possession of the precious gift was purchased by the
effusion of generous blood.

My Lord, I honor the Belgians, I admire the Belgians, I love the Belgians
for their enthusiasm, their courage, their success; and I, for one, will
not stigmatize, for I do not abhor the means by which they obtained a
citizen king, a chamber of deputies.
                                                             T. F. Meagher.


                                    XV.

                     ON BEING FOUND GUILTY OF TREASON.

A jury of my countrymen have found me guilty of the crime for which I stood
indicted. For this I entertain not the slightest feeling of resentment
towards them. Influenced, as they must have been, by the charge of the lord
chief justice, they could have found no other verdict. What of that charge?
Any strong observations on it I feel sincerely would ill befit the
solemnity of this scene; but I would earnestly beseech of you, my
Lord,--you who preside on that bench,--when the passions and prejudices of
this hour have passed away, to appeal to your own conscience, and to ask of
it, was your charge as it ought to have been, impartial and indifferent
between the subject and the crown?

My Lords, you may deem this language unbecoming in me, and perhaps it will
seal my fate. But I am here to speak the truth, whatever it may cost; I am
here to regret nothing I have ever done--to retract nothing I have ever
said. I am here to crave, with no lying lip the life I consecrate to the
liberty of my country. Far from it, even here--here, where the thief the
libertine, the murderer, have left their footprints in the dust; here on
this spot, where the shadows of death surround me, and from which I see my
early grave in an appointed soil opened to receive me--even here, encircled
by these terrors, the hope which has beckoned me to the perilous sea upon
which I have been wrecked still consoles, animates, enraptures me.

No; I do not despair of my poor old country--her peace, her liberty, her
glory. For that country I can do no more than bid her hope. To lift this
island up,--to make her a benefactor to humanity, instead of being the
meanest beggar in the world; to restore her to her native powers and her
ancient constitution,--this has been my ambition, and this ambition has
been my crime. Judged by the law of England, I know this crime entails the
penalty of death; but the history of Ireland explains this crime, and
justifies it. Judged by that history, I am no criminal, I deserve no
punishment. Judged by that history the treason of which I stand convicted
loses all its guilt, is sanctioned as a duty, will be ennobled as a
sacrifice. With these sentiments, my Lord, I await the sentence of the
court.

Having done what I felt to be my duty,--having spoken what I felt to be the
truth, as I have done on every other occasion of my short career,--I now
bid farewell to the country of my birth, my passion, and my death; the
country whose misfortunes have invoked my sympathies; whose factions I have
sought to still; whose intellect I have prompted to a lofty aim; whose
freedom has been my fatal dream. I offer to that country, as a proof of the
love I bear her, and the sincerity with which I thought and spoke and
struggled for her freedom, the life of a young heart, and with that life
all the hopes, the honors the endearments, of a happy and an honored home.
Pronounce, then, my Lords, the sentence which the laws direct, and I will
be prepared to hear it. I trust I shall be prepared to meet its execution.
I hope to be able, with a pure heart and perfect composure, to appear
before a higher tribunal--a tribunal where a judge of infinite goodness as
well as of justice will preside, and where, my Lords, many, many of the
judgments of this world will be reversed.
                                                             T. F. Meagher.


                                   XVI.

     ADDRESS TO THE AMERICAN TROOPS BEFORE THE BATTLE OF LONG ISLAND.

The time is now near at hand, which must probably determine whether
Americans are to be freemen or slaves; whether they are to have any
property they can call their own; whether their houses and farms are to be
pillaged and destroyed, and themselves consigned to a state of wretchedness
from which no human efforts will deliver them. The fate of unborn millions
will now depend, under God, on the courage and conduct of this army. Our
cruel and unrelenting enemy leaves us only the choice of a brave resistance
or the most abject submission. We have, therefore, to resolve to conquer or
to die. Our own, our country's honor, calls upon us for a vigorous and
manly exertion; and, if we now shamefully fail, we shall become infamous to
the whole world. Let us, then, rely on the goodness of our cause and the
aid of the Supreme Being, in whose hands victory is, to animate and
encourage us to great and noble actions. The eyes of all our countrymen are
now upon us; and we shall have their blessings and praises, if happily we
are the instrument of saving them from the tyranny meditated against them.
Let us, therefore, animate and encourage each other, and allow the whole
world that a freeman contending for liberty on his own ground, is superior
to any slavish mercenary on earth.

Liberty, property, life, and honor, are all at stake. Upon your courage and
conduct rest the hopes of our bleeding and insulted country. Our wives,
children, and parents expect safety from us only; and they have every
reason to believe that Heaven will crown with success so just a cause. The
enemy will endeavor to intimidate by show and appearance; but remember they
have been repulsed on various occasions by a few brave Americans. Their
cause is bad,--their men are conscious of it; and, if opposed with firmness
and coolness on their first onset, with our advantage of works, and
knowledge of the ground, the victory is most assuredly ours. Every good
soldier will be silent and attentive, wait for orders, and reserve his fire
until he is sure of doing execution.
                                                                Washington.


                                   XVII.

                           CHARACTER OF CHATHAM.

The secretary stood alone; modern degeneracy had not reached him. Original
and unaccommodating, the features of his character had the hardihood of
antiquity. His august mind overawed majesty; and one of his sovereigns
thought royalty so impaired in his presence, that he conspired to remove
him, in order to be relieved from his superiority. No state chicanery, no
narrow system of vicious polities, no idle contest for ministerial
victories, sunk him to the vulgar level of the great; but, overbearing,
persuasive, and impracticable, his object was England, his ambition was
fame.

Without dividing, he destroyed party; without corrupting, he made a venal
age unanimous. France sunk beneath him. With one hand he smote the house of
Bourbon, and wielded in the other the democracy of England. The sight of
his mind was infinite; and his schemes were to affect, not England, not the
present age only, but Europe and posterity. Wonderful were the means by
which these schemes were accomplished,--always seasonable, always
adequate, the suggestions of an understanding animated by ardor, and
enlightened by prophecy.

The ordinary feelings which make life amiable and indolent, were unknown
to him. No domestic difficulties, no domestic weakness, reached him; but,
aloof from the sordid occurrences of life, and unsullied by its
intercourse, he came occasionally into our system, to counsel, and to
decide. A character so exalted, so strenuous, so various, so
authoritative, astonished a corrupt age; and the treasury trembled at the
name of Chatham, through all her classes of venality. Corruption imagined,
indeed, that she had found defects in this statesman, and talked much of
the inconsistency of his glory and much of the ruin of his victories; but
the history of his country, and the calamities of the enemy, answered and
refuted her.

Nor were his political abilities his only talents; his eloquence was an era
in the senate, peculiar and spontaneous, familiarly expressing gigantic
sentiments and instinctive wisdom; not like the torrent of Demosthenes, or
the splendid conflagration of Tully; it resembled sometimes the thunder,
and sometimes the music of the spheres. He did not, like Murray, conduct
the understanding through the painful subtlety of argumentation; nor was
he, like Townshend, forever on the rack of exertion; but rather lightened
upon the subject, and reached the point by the flashings of the mind,
which, like those of his eye, were felt, but could not be followed. Upon
the whole, there was in this man something that would create, subvert, or
reform; an understanding, a spirit, and an eloquence, to summon mankind to
society, or to break the bonds of slavery asunder; something to rule the
wilderness of free minds with unbounded authority; something that could
establish, or overwhelm empire, and strike a blow in the world, that should
resound through the universe.
                                                                H. Grattan.


                                  XVIII.

                         THE PRESS AND THE UNION.

It were good for us to remember that nothing which tends, however
distantly, however imperceptibly, to hold these States together, is beneath
the notice of a considerate patriotism. It were good to remember that some
of the institutions and devices by which former confederacies have been
preserved, our circumstances wholly forbid us to employ. The tribes of
Israel and Judah came up three times a year to the holy and beautiful city,
and united in prayer and praise and sacrifice, in listening to that
thrilling poetry, in swelling that matchless song, which celebrated the
triumphs of their fathers by the Red Sea, at the fords of Jordan, and on
the high places of the field of Barak's victory. But we have no feast of
the Passover, or of the Tabernacles, or of the Commemoration. The States of
Greece erected temples of the gods by a common contribution, and worshiped
in them. They consulted the same oracle; they celebrated the same national
festival: mingled their deliberations in the same amphictyonic and
subordinate assemblies, and sat together upon the free benches to hear
their glorious history read aloud, in the prose of Heroditus, the poetry of
Homer and of Pindar. We have built no national temples but the Capitol; we
consult no common oracle but the Constitution. We can meet together to
celebrate no national festival. But the thousand tongues of the
press--clearer far than the silver trumpet of the jubilee,--louder than the
voice of the herald at the games,--may speak and do speak to the whole
people, without calling them from their homes or interrupting them in their
employments. Happy if they should speak, and the people should hear, those
things which pertain at least to their temporal and national salvation!
                                                                 R. Choate.


                                   XIX.

                    AMERICAN LITERATURE AND THE UNION.

In leaving this subject, I cannot help suggesting, at the hazard of being
thought whimsical, that a literature of such writings as these, embodying
the romance of the whole revolutionary and ante-revolutionary history of
the United States, might do something to perpetuate the Union itself. The
influence of a rich literature of passion and fancy upon society must not
be denied merely because you cannot measure it by the yard or detect it by
the barometer. Poems and romances which shall be read in every parlor, by
every fireside, in every school-house, behind every counter, in every
printing-office, in every lawyer's office, at every weekly evening club, in
all the States of this confederacy, must do something, along with more
palpable if not more powerful agents, towards moulding and fixing that
final, grand, complex result,--the national character. A keen, well
instructed judge of such things said, if he might write the ballads of a
people, he cared little who made its laws. Let me say, if a hundred men of
genius would extract such a body of romantic literature from our early
history as Scott has extracted from the history of England and Scotland,
and as Homer extracted from that of Greece, it perhaps would not be so
alarming if demagogues should preach, or governors practice, or executives
tolerate nullification. Such a literature would be a common property of all
the States,--a treasure of common ancestral recollections,--more noble and
richer than our thousand million acres of public land; and, unlike that
land, it would be indivisible. It would be as the opening of a great
fountain for the healing of the nations. It would turn back our thoughts
from these recent and overrated diversities of interest,--these
controversies about negro-cloth, coarse-wooled sheep, and cotton
bagging,--to the day when our fathers walked hand in hand together through
the valley of the Shadow of Death in the War of Independence. Reminded of
our fathers, we should remember that we are brethren. The exclusiveness of
State pride,--the narrow selfishness of a mere local policy and the small
jealousies of vulgar minds, would be merged in an expanded comprehensive,
constitutional sentiment of old, family, fraternal regard. It would
ressemble, as it were, the people of America in one vast congregation. It
would rehearse in their hearing all things which God had done for them in
the old time; it would proclaim the law once more; and then it would bid
them join in that grandest and most affecting solemnity,--a national anthem
of thanksgiving for the deliverance, of honor for the dead, of proud
prediction for the future!
                                                                 R. Choate.


                                    XX.

                           THE LOVE OF READING.

 Let the case of a busy lawyer testify to the priceless value of the love
of reading. He comes home, his temples throbbing, his nerves shattered,
from a trial of a week; surprised and alarmed by the charge of the judge,
and pale with anxiety about the verdict of the next morning, not at all
satisfied with what he has done himself, though he does not yet see how he
could have improved it; recalling with dread and self-disparagement, if not
with envy, the brilliant effort of his antagonist, and tormenting himself
with the vain wish that he could have replied to it,--and altogether a very
miserable subject, and in as unfavorable a condition to accept comfort from
a wife and children as poor Christian in the first three pages of the
"Pilgrim's Progress." With a superhuman effort he opens his book, and in
the twinkling of an eye he is looking into the full "orb of Homeric or
Miltonic song;" or he stands in the crowd--breathless, yet swayed as
forests or the sea by winds--hearing and to judge the pleadings for the
crown; or the philosophy which soothed Cicero or Boethius in their
afflictions, in exile, prison, and the contemplation of death, breathes
over his petty cares like the sweet south; or Pope or Horace laughs him
into good humor; or he walks with neas and the Sibyl in the mild light of
the world of the laurelled dead; and the court-house is as completely
forgotten as the dreams of a pre-adamite life. Well may he prize that
endeared charm, so effectual and safe, without which the brain had long ago
been chilled by paralysis, or set on fire of insanity!
                                                                 R. Choate.


                                   XXI.

                   ELOQUENCE OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION.

Men heard that eloquence in 1776, in that manifold and mighty appeal by the
genius and wisdom of that new America, to persuade the people to take on
the name of nation, and begin its life. By how many pens and tongues that
great pleading was conducted; through how many months before the date of
the actual Declaration, it went on, day after day; in how many forms,
before how many assemblies, from the village newspaper, the more careful
pamphlet, the private conversation, the town-meeting, the legislative
bodies of particular colonies, up to the hall of the immortal old Congress,
and the master intelligences of lion heart and eagle eye, that ennobled
it,--all this you know. But the leader in that great argument was John
Adams, of Massachusetts. He, by concession of all men, was the orator of
that Revolution,--the Revolution in which a nation was born. Other and
renowned names, by written or spoken eloquence, coperated effectively,
splendidly, to the grand result,--Samuel Adams, Samuel Chase, Jefferson,
Henry James Otis in an earlier stage. Each of these, and a hundred more,
within circles of influence wider or narrower, sent forth, scattering
broadcast, the seed of life in the ready virgin soil. Each brought some
specialty of gift to the work: Jefferson, the magic of style, and the
habit and the power of delicious dalliance with those large, fair ideas of
freedom and equality, so dear to man, so irresistible in that day; Henry,
the indescribable and lost spell of the speech of the emotions, which fills
the eye, chills the blood, turns the cheek pale,--the lyric phase of
eloquence, the "fire-water," as Lamartine has said, of the Revolution,
instilling into the sense and the soul the sweet madness of battle; Samuel
Chase, the tones of anger, confidence, and pride, and the art to inspire
them. John Adams's eloquence alone seemed to have met every demand of the
time; as a question of right, as a question of prudence, as a question of
immediate opportunity, as a question of feeling, as a question of
conscience, as a question of historical and durable and innocent glory, he
knew it all through and through; and in that mighty debate, which,
beginning in Congress as far back as March or February; 1776, had its close
on the second and on the fourth of July, he presented it in all its
aspects, to every passion and affection,--to the burning sense of wrong,
exasperated at length beyond control by the shedding of blood; to grief,
anger, self-respect; to the desire of happiness and of safety; to the sense
of moral obligation, commanding that the duties of life are more than life;
to courage, which fears God, and knows no other fear; to the craving of the
colonial heart, of all hearts, for the reality and the ideal of country,
and which cannot be filled unless the dear native land comes to be breathed
on by the grace, clad in the robes, armed with the thunders, admitted an
equal to the assembly of the nations; to that large and heroical ambition
which would build States: that imperial philanthropy which would open to
liberty an asylum here, and give to the sick heart, hard fare, fettered
conscience of the children of the Old World, healing, plenty, and freedom
to worship God,--to these passions, and these ideas, he presented the
appeal for months, day after day, until, on the third of July, 1776, he
could record the result, writing thus to his wife: "Yesterday the greatest
question was decided which ever was debated in America; and a greater,
perhaps, never was, nor will be, among men."

Of that series of spoken eloquence all is perished; not one reported
sentence has come down to us. The voice through which the rising spirit of
a young nation sounded out its dream of life is hushed. The great
spokesman, of an age unto an age, is dead.

And yet, of those lost words is not our whole America one immortal record
and reporter? Do ye not read them, deep cut, defying the tooth of time, on
all the marble of our greatness? How they blaze on the pillars of our
Union! How is their deep sense unfolded and interpreted by every passing
hour! How do they come to life, and grow audible, as it were, in the
brightening rays of the light he foresaw, as the fabled invisible heart
gave out its music to the morning!

Yes, in one sense, they are perished. No parchment manuscript, no embalming
printed page, no certain traditions of living or dead, have kept them. Yet,
from out and from off all things around us,--our laughing harvests, our
songs of labor, our commerce on all the seas, our secure homes, our
school-houses and churches, our happy people, our radiant and stainless
flag,--how they come pealing, pealing, Independence now, and Independence
forever!
                                                                 R. Choate.

                                   XXII.

                            TRIBUTE TO WEBSTER.

They say he was ambitious! Yes, as Ames said of Hamilton, "there is no
doubt that he desired glory; and that, feeling his own force, he longed to
deck his brow with the wreath of immortality." But I believe he would have
yielded his arm, his frame to be burned, before he would have sought to
grasp the highest prize of earth by any means, by any organization, by any
tactics, by any speech, which in the least degree endangered the harmony of
the system.

They say, too, he loved New England! He did love New Hampshire--that old
granite world--the crystal hills, gray and cloud-topped; the river, whose
murmur lulled his cradle; the old hearthstone; the grave of father and
mother. He loved Massachusetts, which adopted and honored him--that
sounding sea-shore, that charmed elm-tree seat, that reclaimed farm, that
choice herd, that smell of earth, that dear library, those dearer friends;
but the "sphere of his duties was his true country." Dearly he loved you,
for he was grateful for the open arms with which you welcomed the stranger
and sent him onwards and upwards.

But when the crisis came, and the winds were let lose, and that sea of
March "wrought and was tempestuous," then you saw that he knew even you
only as you were, American citizens; then you saw him rise to the true
nature and stature of American citizenship; then you read on his brow only
what he thought of the whole Republic; then you saw him fold the robes of
his habitual patriotism around him, and counsel for all--for all. So,
then, he served you--"to be pleased with his service was your affair, not
his."

And now what would he do, what would he be if he were here to-day? I do not
presume to know. But what a loss we have in him! I have read that in some
hard battle, when the tide was running against him, and his ranks were
breaking, some one in the agony of a, need of generalship exclaimed, "Oh
for an hour of Dundee!" So say I, Oh for an hour of Webster now! Oh for one
more roll of that thunder inimitable! One more peal of that clarion! One
more grave and bold counsel of moderation! One more throb of American
feeling! One more Farewell Address! And then might he ascend unhindered to
the bosom of his Father and his God.
                                                                 R. Choate.


                                  XXIII.

           THE FRUITS OF SKILFUL LABOR AND CULTIVATED INTELLECT.

Perhaps as striking an illustration on a large scale as could be desired,
of the connection between the best directed and most skilful labor and the
most cultivated and most powerful intellect, is afforded by the case of
England. British industry as a whole, is among the most splendid and
extraordinary things in the history of man. When you consider how small a
work-bench it has to occupy altogether, a little stormy island bathed in
almost perpetual fogs, without silk, or cotton, or vineyards, or sunshine,
and then look at that agriculture, so scientific and so rewarded, that vast
net-work of internal intercommunication, the docks, merchant-ships,
men-of-war, the trade encompassing the globe, the flag on which the sun
never sets,--when you look, above all, at that vast body of useful and
manly art, not directed, like the industry of France,--the industry of
vanity,--to making pier-glasses and air-balloons and gobelin tapestry and
mirrors, to arranging processions and chiselling silver and twisting gold
into filigrees, but to clothing the people, to the manufacture of woolen,
cotton, and linen cloth, of railroads and chain-cables and canals and
anchors and achromatic telescopes, and chronometers to keep the time at
sea,--when you think of the vast aggregate mass of their manufacturing and
mechanical production, which no statistics can ex-press, and to find a
market for which she is planting colonies under every constellation, and by
intimidation, by diplomacy, is knocking at the door of every market-house
upon the earth,--it is really difficult to restrain our admiration of such
a display of energy, labor, and genius, winning bloodless and innocent
triumphs everywhere, giving to the age we live in the name of the age of
the industry of the people. Now, the striking and the instructive fact is,
that exactly in that island workshop, by this very race of artisans, of
coal-heavers and woollen manufacturers of machinists and blacksmiths and
ship-carpenters, there has been produced and embodied forever, in words
that will outlast the mountains as well as the pyramids, a literature
which, take it for all in all, is the richest, most profound, most
instructive, combining more spirituality with more common sense, springing
from more capacious souls, conveying in better wisdom, more conformable to
the truth in man, in nature, and in human life, than the literature of any
nation that ever existed. That same race, side by side with the
unparalleled growth of its industry produces Shakspeare, Milton, Bacon, and
Newton, all four at the summit of human thought,--and then, just below
these unapproachable fixed lights, a whole firmament of glories, lesser
than they, as all created intelligence must be, yet in whose superior rays
the age of Augustus, of Leo X., of Louis XIV., all but the age of Pericles,
the culture of Greece, pale and fade. And yet the literature of England is
not the only, scarcely the most splendid, fruit or form of the mental power
and the energetic character of England. That same race, along with their
indus try, along with their literature, has built up a jurisprudence which
is for substance our law to-day,--has constructed the largest mercantile
and war navy, and the largest commercial empire with its pillars encircling
the globe, that men ever saw,--has gained greater victories on sea and land
than any power in the world,--has erected the smallest spot to the most
imperial ascendency recorded in history. The administrative triumphs of her
intellect are as conspicuous as her imaginative and her speculative
triumphs.

Such is mental power. Mark its union with labor and with all greatness;
deduce the law; learn the lesson; see how you, too, may grow great. Such an
industry as that of England demanded such an intellect as that of England.
Sic vobis etian itur ad astra! That way to you, also, glory lies!
                                                                 R. Choate.


                                   XXIV.

                            THE EMPIRE OF MIND.

Knowledge is power as well as fame. Think of that subtle, all-embracing,
plastic, mysterious, irresistible thing called public opinion, the god of
this lower world, and consider what a State, or a cluster of States, of
marked and acknowledged literary and intellectual lead might do to color
and shape that opinion to their will. Consider how winged are words; how
electrical, light-like the speed of thought; how awful human sympathy.
Consider how soon a wise, a beautiful thought uttered here,--a sentiment of
liberty perhaps, or word of succor to the oppressed, of exhortations to
duty, to patriotism, to glory, the refutation of a sophism, the unfolding
of a truth for which the nation may be better,--how soon a word fitly or
wisely spoken here is read on the Upper Mississippi and beneath the
orange-groves of Florida, all through the unequalled valley; how vast an
audience it gains, into how many bosoms it has access, on how much good
soil the seed may rest and spring to life, how easily and fast the fine
spirit of truth and beauty goes all abroad upon the face of the world.

There is an influence which I would rather see Massachusetts exert on her
sisters of this Union, than see her furnish a President every twelve years
or command a majority on any division in Congress; and that is such an
influence as Athens exerted on the taste and opinion first of Greece, then
of Rome, then of the universal modern world; such as she will exert while
the race of man exists. This, of all the kinds of empire, was most grateful
and innocent and glorious and immortal. This was won by no bargain, by no
fraud, by no war of the Peloponnesus, by the shedding of no human blood. It
would rest on admiration of the beautiful, the good, the true, in art, in
poetry, in thought; and it would last while the emotions, its object, were
left in a human soul. It would turn the eye of America hitherwards with
love, gratitude and tears, such as those with which we turn to the walk of
Socrates beneath the plane-tree, now sere, the summer hour of Cicero, the
prison into which philosophy descended to console the spirit of Boethius,--
that room through whose opened window came into the ear of Scott, as he
died, the murmur of the gentle Tweed,--love, gratitude, and tears, such as
we all yield to those whose immortal wisdom, whose divine verse, whose
eloquence of heaven, whose scenes of many-colored life, have held up the
show of things to the insatiate desires of the mind, have taught us how to
live and how to die! Herein were power, herein were influence, herein were
security. Even in the madness of civil war it might survive for refuge and
defence!
                                                                 R. Choate.


                                   XXV.

                         THE CITY OF OUR LIBERTY.

But now that our service of commemoration is ended, let us go hence and
meditate on all that it has taught us. You see how long the holy and
beautiful city of our liberty and our power has been in building, and by
how many hands, and at what cost. You see the towering and steadfast height
to which it has gone up, and how its turrets and spires gleam in the rising
and setting sun. You stand among the graces of some--your townsmen, your
fathers by blood, whose names you bear, whose portraits hang up in your
homes, of whose memory you are justly proud--who helped in their day to
sink those walls deep in their beds, where neither frost nor earthquake
might heave them,--to raise aloft those great arches of stone,--to send up
those turrets and spires into the sky. It was theirs to build; remember it
is yours, under Providence, to keep the city,--to keep it from the sword
of the invader,--to keep it from licentiousness and crime and irreligion,
and all that would make it unsafe or unfit to live in,--to keep it from the
fires of faction, of civil strife, of party spirit, that might burn up in a
day the slow work of a thousand years of glory. Happy, if we shall so
perform our duty that they who centuries hence shall dwell among our graces
may be able to remember, on some such day as this, in one common service of
grateful commemoration, their fathers of the first and the second age of
America,--those who through martyrdom and tempest and battle sought
liberty, and made her their own,--and those whom neither ease nor luxury,
nor the fear of man, nor the worship of man, could prevail on to barter her
away!
                                                                 R. Choate.


                                   XXVI.

                 SPECIMEN OF THE ELOQUENCE OF JAMES OTIS.

England may as well dam up the wafers of the Nile with bulrushes as to
fetter the step of Freedom, more proud and firm in this youthful land than
where she treads the sequestered glens of Scotland, or couches herself
among the magnificent mountains of Switzerland. Arbitrary principles, like
those against which we now contend, have cost one king of England his life,
another his crown; and they may yet cost a third his most flourishing
colonies.

We are two millions--one fifth fighting men. We are bold and vigorous, and
we call no man master. To the nation, from whom we are proud to derive our
origin, we ever were, and we ever will be, ready to yield unforced
assistance; but it must not, and it never can be extorted.

Some have sneeringly asked, "Are the Americans too poor to pay a few pounds
on stamped paper?" No! America, thanks to God and herself is rich. But the
right to take ten pounds, implies the right to take a thousand; and what
must be the wealth that avarice, aided by power, cannot exhaust? True, the
spectre is now small; but the shadow he casts before him is huge enough to
darken all this fair land. Others, in sentimental style, talk of the
immense debt of gratitude which we owe to England. And what is the amount
of this debt? Why, truly, it is the same that the young lion owes to the
dam, which has brought it forth on the solitude of the mountain, or left it
amid the winds and storms of the desert.

We plunged into the wave with the great charter of freedom in our teeth,
because the fagot and the torch were behind us. We have waked this New
World from its savage lethargy; forests have been prostrated in our path;
towns and cities have grown up suddenly as the flowers of the tropics, and
the fires in our autumnal woods are scarcely more rapid than the increase
of our wealth and population. And do we owe all this to the kind succor of
the mother-country? No! We owe it to the tyranny that drove us from her, to
the pelting storms which invigorated our helpless infancy.

But perhaps others will say, "We ask no money from your gratitude--we only
demand that you should pay your own expenses." And who, I pray, is to judge
of their necessity? Why, the king--(and with all due reverence to his
sacred majesty, he understands the real wants of his distant subjects as
little as he does the language of the Choctaws.) Who is to judge concerning
the frequency of these demands? The ministry. Who is to judge whether the
money is properly expended? The cabinet behind the throne. In every
instance, those who take are to judge for those who pay. If this system is
suffered to go into operation, we shall have reason to esteem it a great
privilege, that rain and dew do not depend upon parliament; otherwise they
would soon be taxed and dried.

But, thanks to God, there is freedom enough left upon earth to resist such
monstrous injustice. The flame of liberty is extinguished in Greece and
Rome, but the light of its glowing embers is still bright and strong on the
shores of America. Actuated by its sacred influence, we will resist unto
death. But we will not countenance anarchy and misrule. The wrongs that a
desperate community have heaped upon their enemies, shall be amply and
speedily repaired. Still, it may be well for some proud men to remember
that a fire is lighted in these colonies which one breath of their king may
kindle into such fury that the blood of all England cannot extinguish it.
                                                          Mrs. M. L. Child.


                                  XXVII.

                  WEBSTER IN THE DARTMOUTH COLLEGE CASE.

The Dartmouth College case forms an important era in Mr, Webster's life His
argument in that case stands out among his other arguments, as his speech
in reply to Mr. Hayne, among his other speeches. No better argument has
been spoken in the English tongue in the memory of any living man, nor is
the child that is born to-day likely to live to hear a better. Its learning
is ample but not ostentatious; its logic irresistible; its eloquence
vigorous and lofty. Judge Story often spoke with great animation of the
effect he then produced upon the court "For the first hour," said he, "we
listened to him with perfect astonishment; for the second hour, with
perfect delight; and for the third hour with perfect conviction." It is not
too much to say that he entered the court on that day a comparatively
unknown name, and left it with no rival but Pinkney. All the words he spoke
on that occasion have not been recorded. When he had exhausted the
resources of learning and logic, his mind passed naturally and simply into
a strain of feeling not common to the place. Old recollections and early
associations came over him, and the vision of his youth rose up.

The genius of the institution where he was nurtured seemed standing by his
side in weeds of mourning, with a countenance of sorrow. With suffused
eyes, and faltering voice, he broke into an unpremeditated strain of
emotion, so strong and so deep, that all who heard him were borne along
with it. Heart answered to heart as he spoke, and, when he ceased, the
silence and tears of the impassive bench, as well as of the excited
audience were a tribute to the truth and power of the feeling by which he
had been inspired.
                                                             G. S. Hillard.


                                  XXVIII.

                         THE AMBITION OF WEBSTER.

Mr. Webster was an ambitious man. He desired the highest office in the gift
of the people. But on this subject, as on all others, there was no
concealment in his nature. And ambition is not a weakness unless it be
disproportional to the capacity. To have more ambition than ability is to
be at once weak and unhappy. With him it was a noble passion, because it
rested upon noble powers. He was a man cast in a heroic mould. His
thoughts, his wishes, his passions, his aspirations, were all on a grander
scale than those of other men. Unexercised capacity is always a source of
rusting discontent. The height to which men may rise is in proportion to
the upward force of their genius, and they will never be calm till they
have attained their predestined elevation. Lord Bacon says, "as in nature
things move violently to their place and calmly in their place, so virtue
in ambition is violent, in authority, settled and calm." Mr. Webster had a
giant's brain and a giant's heart, and he wanted a giant's work. He found
repose in those strong conflicts and great duties which crush the weak and
madden the sensitive. He thought that, if he were elevated to the highest
place, he should so administer the government as to make the country
honored abroad, and great and happy at home. He thought, too, that he could
do something to make us more truly one people. This, above everything else,
was his ambition. And we, who knew him better than others, felt that it was
a prophetic ambition, and we honored and trusted him accordingly.
                                                             G. S. Hillard.


                                   XXIX.

               THE DANGER OF EXCLUSIVE DEVOTION TO BUSINESS.

This is a world of inflexible compensations. Nothing is ever given away,
but everything is bought and paid for. If, by exclusive and absolute
surrender of ourselves to material pursuits, we materialize the mind, we
lose that class of satisfactions of which the mind is the region and the
source. A young man in business, for instance, begins to feel the
exhilarating glow of success, and deliberately determines to abandon
himself to its delirious whirl. He says to himself, I will think of nothing
but business till I shall have made so much money, and then I will begin a
new life. I will gather round me books and pictures and friends. I will
have knowledge, taste, and cultivation,--the perfume of scholarship, and
winning speech, and graceful manners. I will see foreign countries, and
converse with accomplished men. I will drink deep of the fountains of
classic lore. Philosophy shall guide me, history shall instruct, and poetry
shall charm me. Science shall open to me her world of wonders. I shall
remember my present life of drudgery as one recalls a troubled dream when
the morning has dawned.

He keeps his self-registered vow. He bends his thoughts downward and nails
them to the dust. Every power, every affection, every taste, except those
which his particular occupa tion calls into play, is left to starve. Over
the gates of his mind he writes in letters which he who runs may read, "No
admittance except on business." In time he reaches the goal of his hopes;
but now insulted Nature begins to claim her revenge. That which was once
unnatural is now natural to him. The enforced constraint has become a rigid
deformity. The spring of his mind is broken. He can no longer lift his mind
from the ground. Books and knowledge and wise discourse, and the amenities
of it, and the cordial of friendship, are like words in a strange tongue.
To the hard, smooth surface of his soul, nothing genial, graceful, or
winning will cling; he cannot even purge his voice of its fawning tone, or
pluck from his face the mean, money-getting mask which the child does not
look at without ceasing to smile. Amid the graces and ornaments of wealths,
he is like a blind man in a picture-gallery. That which he has done he must
continue to do. He must accumulate riches which he cannot enjoy and
contemplate the dreary prospect of growing old without anything to make age
venerable or attractive; for age without wisdom and without knowledge is
the winter's cold without the winter's fire
                                                             G. S. Hillard.


                                   XXX.

SPEECH OF PATRICK HENRY, IN THE CONVENTION OF DELEGATES OF VIRGINIA, MARCH,
                                   1775.

Mr. President, It is natural for man to indulge in the illusions of hope.
We are apt to shut our eyes against a painful truth, and listen to the song
of that siren till she transforms us into beasts. Is this the part of wise
men, engaged in the great and arduous struggle for liberty? Are we disposed
to be of the number of those, who having eyes, see not, and having ears,
hear not, the things which so nearly concern their temporal salvation? For
my part, whatever anguish of spirit it may cost, I am willing to know the
whole truth, to know the worst, and to provide for it.

I have but one lamp by which my feet are guided; and that is the lamp of
experience. I know of no way of judging of the future but by the past. And
judging by the past, I wish to know, what there has been in the conduct of
the British ministry, for the last ten years, to justify those hopes with
which gentlemen have been pleased to solace themselves and the House. Is it
that insidious smile with which our petition has been lately received?
Trust it not, sir; it will prove a snare to your feet. Suffer not
yourselves to be betrayed with a kiss! Ask yourselves how this gracious
reception of our petition comports with those warlike preparations, which
cover our waters and darken our land. Are fleets and armies necessary to a
work of love and reconciliation! Have we shown ourselves so unwilling to be
reconciled, that force must be called in to win back our love! Let us not
deceive ourselves, sir. These are the implements of war and
subjugation,--the last arguments to which kings resort. I ask gentlemen,
sir, what means this martial array if its purpose be not to force us to
submission? Can gentlemen assign any other possible motive for it? Has
Great Britain any enemy in this quarter of the world, to call for all this
accumulation of navies and armies? No, sir, she has none. They are meant
for us; they can be meant for no other. They are sent over to bind and
rivet upon us those chains which the British ministers have been so long
forging.

And what have we to oppose to them?--Shall we try argument? Sir, we have
been trying that for the last ten years. Have we anything new to offer on
the subject? Nothing. We have held the subject up in every light, of which
if is capable; but it has been all in vain. Shall we resort to entreaty and
humble supplication? What terms shall we find which have not been already
exhausted? Let us not, I beseech you, sir, deceive ourselves longer. Sir,
we have done everything that could be done to avert the storm which is now
coming on. We have petitioned,--we have remonstrated,--we have
supplicated,--we have prostrated ourselves before the throne, and have
implored its interposition to arrest the tyrannical bands of the ministry
and Parliament. Our petitions have been slighted; our remonstrances have
produced additional violence and insult; our supplications have been
disregarded; and we have been spurned from the foot of the throne.

In vain, after these things, may we indulge the fond hope of peace and
reconciliation. There is no longer any room for hope. If we wish to be
free,--if we mean to preserve inviolate those inestimable privileges for
which we have been so long contending,--if we mean not basely to abandon
the noble struggle in which we have been so long engaged, and which we have
pledged ourselves never to abandon until the glorious object of or contest
shall be obtained,--we must fight; I repeat it, sir, we must fight! An
appeal to arms and to the God of Hosts is all that is left us!


                                   XXXI.

                            THE SAME CONCLUDED.

They tell us, sir, that we are weak,--unable to cope with so formidable an
adversary. But when shall we be stronger? Will it be the next week, or the
next year? Will it be when we are totally disarmed; and when a British
guard shall be stationed in every house? Shall we gather strength by
irresolution and inaction? Shall we acquire the means of effectual
resistance by lying supinely on our backs, and hugging the delusive phantom
of hope, until our enemies shall have bound us hand and foot?

Sir, we are not weak, if we make a proper use of those means which the God
of nature hath placed in our power. Three millions of people armed in the
holy cause of liberty, and in such a country as that which we possess, are
invincible by any force which our enemy can send against us. Besides, sir,
we shall not fight alone. There is a just God who presides over the
destinies of nations, and who will raise up friends to fight our battles
for us.

The battle, sir, is not to the strong alone,--it is to the active, the
vigilant, the brave. Besides sir we have no election! If we were base
enough to desire it, it is now too late to retire from the contest. There
is no retreat,--but in submission and slavery! Our chains are forged.
Their clanking may be heard in the plains of Boston. The war is
inevitable,--and let it come! I repeat it, sir, let it come.

It is in vain, sir, to extenuate the matter. Gentlemen may cry peace!
peace!--but there is no peace. The war is actually begun! The next gale
that sweeps from the north will bring to our ears the clash of resounding
arms! Our brethren are already in the field. Why stand we here idle? What
is it that gentlemen wish? What would they have? Is life so dear, or peace
so sweet as to be purchased at the price of chains and slavery? Forbid it,
Heaven!--I know not what course others may take, but as for me,--give me
liberty, or give me death!


                                  XXXII.

                       REPLY TO THE DUKE OF GRAFTON.

My Lords, I am amazed; yes, my Lords, I am amazed at his Grace's speech.
The noble Duke cannot look before him, behind him, or on either side of
him, without seeing some noble peer who owes his seat in this House to his
successful exertion in the profession to which I belong. Does he not feel
that it is as honorable to owe it to these, as to being the accident of an
accident? To all these noble Lords, the language of the noble Duke is as
applicable and insulting as it is to myself But I do not fear to meet it
single and alone. No one venerates the peerage more than I do; but, my
Lords, I must say, that the peerage solicited me, not I the peerage.

Nay, more; I can say and will say that as a Peer of Parliament, as a
Speaker of this right honorable House, as Keeper of the Great Seal, as
Guardian of his Majesty's conscience, as Lord High Chancellor of
England,-nay, even in that character alone, in which the noble Duke would
think it an affront to be considered but which character none can deny
me,--as a MAN,--I am, at this moment, as respectable,--I beg to leave add,
I am as much respected,--as the proudest peer I now look down upon.
                                                              Lord Thurlow.


                                  XXXIII.

                       THE PROSPECTS OF CALIFORNIA.

Judging from the past, what have we not a right to expect in the future.
The world has never witnessed anything equal or similar to our career
hitherto. Scarcely two years ago California was almost an unoccupied wild.
With the exception of a prsidium, a mission a pueblo, or a lonely ranch,
scattered here and there, at tiresome distances, there was nothing to show
that the uniform stillness had ever been broken by the footsteps of
civilized man. The agricultural richness of her valley remained unimproved;
and the wealth of a world lay entombed in the bosom of her solitary
mountains, and on the banks of her unexplored streams. Behold the contrast!
The hand of agriculture is now busy in every fertile valley and its toils
are remunerated with rewards which in no other portion of the world can be
credited. Enterprise has pierced every hill, for hidden treasure, and has
heaped up enormous gains. Cities and villages dot the surface of the whole
State. Steamers dart along our rivers, and innumerable vessels spread their
white wings over our bays. Not Constantinople, upon which the wealth of
imperial Rome was lavished,--not St. Petersburg, to found which the
arbitrary Czar sacrificed thousands of his subjects, would rival, in
rapidity of growth, the fair city which lies before me. Our state is a
marvel to ourselves, and a miracle to the rest of the world. Nor is the
influence of California confined within her own borders. Mexico, and the
islands nestled in the embrace of the Pacific, have felt the quickening
breath of her enterprise. With her golden wand, she has touched the
prostrate corpse of South American industry, and it has sprung up in the
freshness of life. She has caused the hum of busy life to be heard in the
wilderness "where rolls the Oregon," and but recently heard no sound,
"save its own dashings." Even the wall of Chinese exclusiveness has been
broken down, and the children of the sun have come forth to view the
splendor of her achievements.

But, flattering as has been the past, satisfactory as is the present, it is
but a foretaste of the future. It is a trite saying, that we live in an age
of great events. Nothing can be more true. But the greatest of all events
of the present age is at hand. It needs not the gift of prophecy to
predict, that the course of the world's trade is destined soon to be
changed. But a few years can elapse before the commerce of Asia and the
islands of the Pacific, instead of pursuing the ocean track, by way of Cape
Horn or the Cape of Good Hope, or even taking the shorter route of the
Isthmus of Darien, or the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, will enter the Golden
Gate of California, and deposit its riches in our own city. Hence, on bars
of iron, and propelled by steam, it will ascend the mountains and traverse
the desert; and having again reached the confines of civilization, will be
distributed, through a thousand channels, to every portion of the Union and
of Europe. New York will then become what London now is,-the great central
point of exchange, the heart of trade, the force of whose contraction and
expansion will be felt throughout every artery of the commercial world; and
San Francisco will then stand the second city of America. Is this
visionary? Twenty years will determine.

The world is interested in our success; for a fresh field is opened to its
commerce, and a new avenue to the civilization and progress of the human
race. Let us, then, endeavor to realize the hopes of Americans, and the
expectations of the world. Let us not only be united amongst ourselves, for
our own local welfare, but let us strive to cement the common bonds of
brother-hood of the whole Union. In our relations to the Federal
Government, let us know no South, no North, no East, no West. Wherever
American liberty flourishes, let that be our common country! Wherever the
American banner waves, let that be our home!
                                                         Nathaniel Bennett.


                                  XXXIV.

                            IN PROSPECT OF WAR

Go forth, defenders of your country, accompanied with every auspicious
omen; advance with alacrity into the field, when God himself musters the
hosts to war. Religion is too much interested in your success not to lend
you her aid. She will shed over your enterprise her selectest influence.
While you are engaged in the field, many will repair to the closet, many to
the sanctuary; the faithful of every name will employ that prayer which has
power with God; the feeble hands which are unequal to any other weapon,
will grasp the sword of the Spirit; and from myriad of humble, contrite
hearts, the voice of intercession, supplication, and weeping, will mingle,
in its ascent to heaven, with the shouts of battle and the shock of arms.

While you have everything to fear from the success of the enemy, you have
every means of preventing that success; so that it is next to impossible
for victory not to crown your exertions The extent of your resources, under
God, is equal to the justice of your cause. But, should Providence
determine otherwise,--should you fall in this struggle, should the nation
fall,--you will have the satisfaction (the purest allotted to man), of
having performed your part; your names will be enrolled with the most
illustrious dead, while posterity, to the end of time, as often as they
revolve the events of this period (and they will incessantly revolve them),
will turn to you a reverential eye, while they mourn over the freedom which
is entombed in your sepulchre.

I cannot but imagine the virtuous heroes, legislators, and patriots of
every age and country, are bending from their elevated seats to witness
this contest, as if they were incapable, till it be brought to a favorable
issue, of enjoying their eternal repose. Enjoy that repose, illustrious
immortals! Your mantle fell when you ascended; and thousands, inflamed with
your spirit, and impatient to tread in your steps, are ready to swear by
Him that sitteth on the throne, and liveth forever and ever, that they will
protect freedom in her last asylum, and never desert her cause, which you
sustained by your labors, and cemented with your blood!
                                                               Robert Hall.


                                   XXXV.

                           THE AMERICAN INDIANS.

If the Indians had the vices of savage life, they had the virtues also. They
were true to their country, their friends, and their homes. If they forgave
not injury, neither did they forget kindness. If their vengeance was
terrible, their fidelity and generosity were unconquerable also. Their
love, like their hate, stopped not on this side of the grave. But where are
they? Where are the villages, and warriors, and youth? The sachems and the
tribes? The hunters and their families? They have perished. They are
consumed. The wasting pestilence has not alone done the mighty work.
No,--nor famine, nor war. There has been a mightier power, a moral canker,
which hath eaten into their heart-cores,--a plague which the touch of the
white man communicated,--a poison, which betrayed them into a lingering
ruin. The winds of the Atlantic fan not a single region which they may now
call their own. Already the last feeble remnants of the race are preparing
for their journey beyond the Mississippi. I see them leave their miserable
homes,--the aged, the helpless, the women, and the warriors, "few and
faint, yet fearless still." The ashes are cold on their native hearths. The
smoke no longed curls round their lowly cabins. They move on with a slow,
unsteady step. The white man is upon their heels, for terror or dispatch;
but they heed him not. They turn to take a last look of their deserted
villages. They cast a last glance upon the graves of their fathers They
shed no tears; they utter no cries; they heave no groans. There is
something in their hearts which passes speech. There is something in their
looks, not of vengeance or submission, but of hard necessity, which stifles
both; which chokes all utterance; which has no aim or method. It is courage
absorbed in despair. They linger but for a moment. Their look is onward.
They have passed the fatal stream. It shall never be repassed by them,--no,
never. Yet there lies not between us and them an impassible gulf. They know
and feel, that for them there is still one remove farther, not distant, nor
unseen. It is the general burying-ground of their race.
                                                                  J. Story.


                                  XXXVI.

                            CLASSICAL LEARNING.

The importance of classical learning to professional education is so
obvious, that the surprise is, that it could ever have become matter of
disputation. I speak not of its power in reining the taste, in disciplining
the judgment, in invigorating the understanding, or in warming the heart
with elevated sentiments; but of its power of direct, positive, necessary
instruction. There is not a single nation from the north to the south of
Europe, from the bleak shores of the Baltic to the bright plains of
immortal Italy, whose literature is not embedded in the very elements of
classical learning. The literature of England is, in an emphatic sense, the
production of her scholars; of men who have cultivated letters in her
universities, and colleges, and grammar-schools; of men who thought any
life too short, chiefly because it left some relic of antiquity unmastered,
and any other fame too humble, because it faded in the presence of Roman
and Grecian genius.

He who studies English literature without the lights of classical
learning, loses half the charms of its sentiments and style, of its force
and feelings, of its delicate touches, of its delightful allusions, of its
illustrative associations. Who that reads the poetry of Gray, does not feel
that it is the refinement of classical taste which gives such inexpressible
vividness and transparency to his diction? Who that reads the concentrated
sense and melodious versification of Dryden and Pope, does not perceive in
them the disciples of the old school, whose genius was inflamed by the
heroic verse, the terse satire, and the playful wit of antiquity? Who that
meditates over the strains of Milton does not feel that he drank deep at

                       "Siloa's brook, that flowed
                       Fast by the oracle of God,--"

that the fires of his magnificent mind were lighted by coals from ancient
altars?

It is no exaggeration to declare, that he who proposes to abolish classical
studies, proposes to render, in a great measure, inert and unedifying, the
mass of English literature for three centuries; to rob us of the glory of
the past, and much of the instruction of future ages; to blind us to
excellencies which few may hope to equal, and none to surpass; to
annihilate associations which are interwoven with our best sentiments, and
give to distant times and countries a presence and reality, as if they were
in fact his own.
                                                                  J. Story.


                                  XXXVII.

              AN APPEAL IN BEHALF OF PATRIOTISM AND LOYALTY.

I call upon you, fathers, by the shades of your ancestors, by the dear
ashes which repose in this precious soil, by all you are, and all you hope
to be; resist every object of disunion, resist every encroachment upon your
liberties, resist every attempt to fetter your consciences, or smother your
public schools, or extinguish your system of public instruction.

I call upon you, mothers, by that which never fails in woman,--the love of
your offspring,--teach them as they climb your knees, or lean on your
bosoms, the blessings of liberty. Swear them at the altar, as with their
baptismal vows, to be true to their country, and never to forget or forsake
her.

I call upon you young men, to remember whose sons you are; whose
inheritance you possess. Life can never be too short which brings nothing
but disgrace and oppression. Death never comes too soon, if necessary in
defence of the liberties of your country. I call upon you, old men, for
your counsels, and your prayers, and your benedictions. May not your gray
hairs go down in sorrow to the grave, with the recollection that you have
lived in vain. May not your last sun sink in the west upon a nation of
slaves.

No;--I read in the destiny of my country far better hopes, far brighter
visions. We, who are now assembled here, must soon be gathered to the
congregation of other days. The time of our departure is at hand to make
way for our children upon the theatre of life. May God speed them and
theirs. May he, who at the distance of another century shall stand here to
celebrate this day, still look round upon a free, happy, and virtuous
people. May he have reason to exult as we do. May he, with all the
enthusiasm of truth as well as poetry exclaim that here is still his
country.
                                                                  J. Story.


                                 XXXVIII.

                        OUR DUTIES TO THE REPUBLIC.

 The Old World has already revealed to us, in its unsealed books, the
beginning and end of all its own marvelous struggles in the cause of
liberty. Greece, lovely Greece,

               "The land of scholars and the nurse of arms,"

where sister republics, in fair procession, chanted the praises of liberty
and the gods,--where and what is she? For two thousand years the oppressor
has ground her to the earth. Her arts are no more. The last sad relics of
her temples are but the barracks of a ruthless soldiery. The fragments of
her columns and her palaces are in the dust, yet beautiful in ruins. She
fell not when the mighty were upon her. Her sons were united at Thermopyl
and Marathon; and the tide of her triumph rolled back upon the Hellespont.
She was conquered by her own factions. She fell by the hands of her own
people. The Man of Macedonia did not the work of destruction. It was
already done by her own corruptions, banishments, and dissensions. Rome,
republican Rome, whose eagles glanced in the rising and setting sun,--where
and what is she? The eternal city yet remains, proud even in her
desolation, noble in her decline, venerable in the majesty of religion, and
calm as in the composure of death. The malaria has travelled in the paths
worn by her destroyers. More than eighteen centuries have mourned over the
loss of her empire. A mortal disease was upon her vitals before Csar had
crossed the Rubicon; and Brutus did not restore her health by the deep
probings of the senate-chamber. The Goths, and Vandals, and Huns,--the
swarms of the North,--completed only what was already begun at home. Romans
betrayed Rome. The legions were bought and sold; but the people offered the
tribute-money.

We stand the latest, and, if we fail, probably the last experiment of
self-government by the people. We have begun it under circumstances of the
most auspicious nature. We are in the vigor of youth. Our growth has never
been checked by the oppressions of tyranny. Our constitutions have never
been enfeebled by the vices or luxuries of the Old World. Such as we are,
we have been from the beginning,--simple, hardy, intelligent, accustomed to
self-government, and to self-respect. The Atlantic rolls between us and any
formidable foe. Within our own territory, stretching through many degrees
of latitude and longitude, we have the choice of many products, and many
means of independence. The government is mild. The press is free. Religion
is free. Knowledge reaches, or may reach every home. What fairer prospect
of success could be presented? What means more adequate to accomplish the
sublime end? What more is necessary than for the people to preserve what
they have themselves created? Already has the age caught the spirit of our
institutions. It has already ascended the Andes, and snuffed the breezes of
both oceans. It has infused itself into the life-blood of Europe, and
warmed the sunny plains of France and the lowlands of Holland. It has
touched the philosophy of Germany and the North; and, moving onward to the
South, has opened to Greece the lessons of her better days. Can it be that
America, under such circumstances, can betray herself? Can it be that she
is to be added to the catalogue of republics, the inscription upon whose
ruins is: THEY WERE, BUT THEY ARE NOT? Forbid it, my countrymen! Forbid it,
Heaven!
                                                                  J. Story.


                                  XXXIX.

                       SPARTACUS TO THE GLADIATORS.

It had been a day of triumph at Capua. Lentulus, returning with victorious
eagles, had amused the populace with the sports of the amphitheatre, to an
extent hitherto unknown even in that luxurious city. The shouts of revelry
had died away; the roar of the lion had ceased; the last loiterer had
retired from the banquet, and the lights in the palace of the victor were
extinguished. The moon, piercing the tissue of fleecy clouds, silvered the
dew-drop on the corselet of the Roman sentinel, and tipped the dark waters
of Volturnus with wavy, tremulous light. It was a night of holy calm, when
the zephyr sways the young spring leaves, and whispers among the hollow
reeds its dreamy music. No sound was heard but the last sob of some weary
wave, telling its story to the smooth pebbles of the beach, and then all
was still as the breast when the spirit has departed.

In the deep recesses of the amphitheatre, a band of gladiators were crowded
together, their muscles still knotted with the agony of conflict, the foam
upon their lips, and the scowl of battle yet lingering upon their brows,
when Spartacus, rising in the midst of that grim assemblage, thus addressed
them:--

"Ye call me chief, and ye do well to call him chief, who, for twelve long
years, has met upon the arena every shape of man or beast that the broad
empire of Rome could furnish, and yet never has lowered his arm. And if
there be one among you who can say that, ever, in public fight or private
brawl, my actions did belie my tongue, let him step forth and say it. If
there, be three in all your throng dare face me on the bloody sand, let
them come on!

"Yet I was not always thus, a hired butcher, a savage chief of savage men.
My father was a reverent man, who feared great Jupiter, and brought the
rural deities his offerings of fruits ad flowers. He dwelt among the
vine-clad rocks and olive groves at the foot of Helicon. My early life ran
quiet as the brook by which I sported. I was taught to prune the vine, to
tend the flock; and then, at noon, I gathered my sheep beneath the shade,
and played upon the shepherd's flute. I had a friend, the son of our
neighbor; we led our flocks to the same pasture, and shared together our
rustic meal.

"One evening, after the sheep were folded, and we were all seated beneath
the myrtle that shaded our cottage, my grandsire, an old man, was telling
of Marathon and Leuctra, and how, in ancient times, a little band of
Spartans, in a defile of the mountains, withstood a whole army. I did not
then know what war meant; but my cheeks burned, I knew not why; and I
clasped the hand of that venerable man, till my mother, parting the hair
from off my brow, kissed my throbbing temples, and bade me go to rest, and
think no more of those old tales and savage wars.

"That very night the Romans landed on our shore, and the dash of steel was
heard within our quiet vale. I saw the breast that had nourished me
trampled by the iron hoof of the warhorse; the bleeding body of my father
flung amid the blazing rafters of our dwelling. To-day I killed a man in
the arena, and when I broke his helmet clasps, behold!--it was my friend!
He knew me,--smiled faintly,--gasped,--and died. The same sweet smile that
I had marked upon his face, when, in adventurous boyhood, we scaled some
lofty cliff to pluck the first ripe grapes, and bear them home in childish
triumph. I told the Prtor he was my friend, noble and brave, and I begged
his body, that I might burn it upon the funeral-pile, and mourn over him.
Ay, upon my knees, amid the dust and blood of the arena, I begged that
boon, while all the Roman maids and matrons, and those holy virgins they
call vestal, and the rabble, shouted in mockery, deeming it rare sport,
forsooth, to see Rome's fiercest gladiator turn pale, and tremble like a
very child, before that piece of bleeding clay; but the Prtor drew back as
if I were pollution, and sternly said, 'Let the carrion rot! There are no
noble men but Romans!' And he, deprived of funeral rites,--must wander, a
hapless ghost, beside the waters of that sluggish river, and look--and
look--and look in vain to the bright Elysian fields where dwell his
ancestors and noble kindred. And so must you, and so must I, die like dogs!

"O Rome! Rome! thou hast been a tender nurse to me! Ay, thou hast given to
that poor, gentle, timid shepherd-lad, who never knew a harsher sound than
a flute-note, muscles of iron, and a heart of flint; taught him to drive
the sword through rugged brass and plaited mail, and warm it in the marrow
of his foe!--to gaze into the glaring eyeballs of the fierce Numidian lion,
even as a smooth-cheeked boy upon a laughing girl. And he shall pay thee
back till thy yellow Tiber is red as frothing wine, and in its deepest ooze
thy life-blood lies curdled!

"Ye stand here now like giants, as ye are! the strength of brass in your
toughened sinews; but to-morrow some Roman Adonis, breathing sweet odors
from his curly locks, shall come, and with his lily fingers pat your brawny
shoulders, and bet his sesterces upon your blood! Hark! Hear ye yon lion
roaring in his den? 'Tis three days since he tasted meat; but tomorrow he
shall break his fast upon your flesh; and ye shall be a dainty meal for
him.

"If ye are brutes, then stand here like fat oxen waiting for the butcher's
knife; if ye are men, follow me! strike down yon sentinel, and gain the
mountain passes, and there do bloody work as did your sires at old
Thermopyl! Is Sparta dead? Is the old Grecian spirit frozen in your veins,
that ye do crouch and cower like base-born slaves, beneath your master's
lash? O! comrades! warriors! Thracians! if we must fight, let us fight for
ourselves; if we must slaughter, let us slaughter our oppressors; if we
must die, let us die under the open sky, by the bright waters, in noble,
honorable battle."
                                                                E. Kellogg.


                                    XL.

                     NO EXTENSION OF SLAVE TERRITORY.

Mr. Chairman, I have no time to discuss the subject of slavery on this
occasion, nor should I desire to discuss it in this connection, if I had
more time. But I just not omit a few plain words on the momentous issue
which has now been raised. I speak for Massachusetts--I believe I speak the
sentiments of all New England, and of many other States out of New
England--when I say that, upon this question, our minds are made up. So far
as we have power--constitutional or moral power--to control political
events, we are resolved that there shall be no further extension of the
territory of this Union, subject to the institution of slavery. This is not
a matter to argue about with us. My honorable friend from Georgia (Mr
Toombs) must pardon me if I do not enter into any question with him whether
such a policy be equal or just. It may be that the North does not consider
the institution of slavery a fit thing to be the subject of equal
distribution or nice weighing in the balances. I cannot agree with him that
the South gains nothing by the Constitution but the right to reclaim
fugitives. Surely he has forgotten that slavery is the basis of
representation in this House.

But I do not intend to argue the case. I wish to deal with it calmly, but
explicitly. I believe the North is ready to stand by the Constitution with
all its compromises, as it now is. I do not intend, moreover, to throw out
any threats of disunion, whatever may be the result. I do not intend, now
or ever, to contemplate disunion as a cure for any imaginable evil. At the
same time I do not intend to be driven from a firm expression of purpose,
and a steadfast adherence to principle, by any threats of disunion from any
other quarter. The people of New England, whom I have any privilege to
speak for, do not desire, as I understand their views, I know my own heart
and my own principles and can at least speak for them, to gain one foot of
territory by conquest, and as the result of the prosecution of the war with
Mexico. I do not believe that even the abolitionists of the North,--though
I am one of the last persons who would be entitled to speak their
sentiments, would be unwilling to be found in combination with Southern
gentlemen, who may see fit to espouse this doctrine. We desire peace. We
believe that this war ought never to have been commenced, and we do not
wish to have it made the pretext for plundering Mexico of one foot of her
lands. But if the war is to be prosecuted, and if territories are to be
conquered and annexed, we shall stand fast and forever to the principle
that, so far as we are concerned, these territories shall be the exclusive
abode of freemen.
                                                            R. C. Winthrop.


                                   XLI.

                     NATIONAL MONUMENT TO WASHINGTON.

Fellow-citizens! Let us seize this occasion to renew to each other our vows
of allegiance and devotion to the American Union, and let us recognize In
our common title to the name and fame of Washington, and, in our common
veneration for his example and his advice, the all-sufficient centripetal
power, which shall hold the thick clustering stars of our confederacy in
one glorious constellation forever! Let the column which we are about to
construct, be at once a pledge and an emblem of perpetual union! Let the
foundations be laid, let the superstructure be built up and cemented, let
each stone be raised and reverted, In a spirit of national brotherhood! And
may the earliest ray of the rising sun--till that sun shall set to rise no
more--draw forth from it dally, as from the fabled statue of antiquity, a
strain of national harmony, which shall strike a responsive chord in every
heart throughout the Republic!

Proceed, then, fellow-citizens, with the work for which you have assembled.
Lay the corner-stone of a monument which shall adequately bespeak the
gratitude of the whole American people to the Illustrious Father of his
country! Build it to the skies, you cannot outreach the loftiness of his
principles! Found it upon the massive and eternal rock, you cannot make it
more enduring than his fame! Construct it of the peerless Parian marble,
you cannot make it purer than his life! Exhaust upon it the rules and
principles of ancient and modern art, you cannot make it more
proportionate than his character!

But let not your homage to his memory end here. Think not to transfer to a
tablet or a column the tribute which is due from yourselves. Just honor to
Washington can only be rendered by observing his precepts and imitating his
example. He has built his own monument. We and those who come after us, in
successive generations, are its appointed, its privileged guardians.

The wide-spread Republic is the true monument to Washington. Maintain its
Independence. Uphold its Constitution. Preserve its Union. Defend its
Liberty. Let it stand before the world in all its original strength and
beauty, securing peace, order, equality, and freedom to all within its
boundaries, and shedding light, and hope, and joy, upon the pathway of
human liberty throughout the world; and Washington needs no other monument.
Other structures may fitly testify our veneration for him; this, this
alone, can adequately illustrate his services to mankind. Nor does he need
even this. The Republic may perish; the wide arch of our ranged Union may
fall; star by star its glories may expire; stone by stone its columns and
its capitol may moulder and crumble; all other names which adorn its annals
may be forgotten; but as long as human hearts shall anywhere pant, or human
tongues shall anywhere plead, for a true, rational, constitutional liberty,
those hearts shall enshrine the memory, and those tongues prolong the fame,
of George Washington!
                                                            R. C. Winthrop.


                                   XLII.

                            THE PERFECT ORATOR.

Imagine to yourselves a Demosthenes, addressing the most illustrious
assembly in the world, upon a point whereon the fate of the most
illustrious of nations depended. How awful such a meeting! How vast the
subject! Is man possessed of talents adequate to the great occasion?
Adequate! Yes, superior. By the power of his eloquence, the augustness of
the assembly is lost in the dignity of the orator; and the importance of
the subject, for awhile, superseded by the admiration of his talents. With
what strength of argument, with what powers of the fancy, with what
emotions of the heart, does he assault and subjugate the whole man; and, at
once, captivate his reason, his imagination, and his passions! To effect
this must be the utmost effort of the most improved state of human
nature,--not a faculty that he possesses is here unemployed; not a faculty
that he possesses but is here exerted to its highest pitch. All his
internal powers are at work; all his external testify their energies.
Within the memory, the fancy, the judgment, the passions, are all busy;
without, every muscle, every nerve, is exerted; not a feature, not a limb
but speaks. The organs of the body attuned to the exertions of the mind
through the kindred organs of the hearers, instantaneously vibrate those
energies from soul to soul. Notwithstanding the diversity of minds in such
a multitude, by the lightning of eloquence, they are melted into one
mass,--the whole assembly, actuated in one and the same way, become, as it
were, but one man and have but one voice. The universal cry is,--LET US
MARCH AGAINST PHILIP; LET US FIGHT FOR OUR LIBERTIES;--LET US CONQUER OR
DIE!


                                  XLIII.

                  NECESSITY OF A PURE NATIONAL MORALITY.

The crisis has come. By the people of this generation, by ourselves,
probably the amazing question is to be decided, whether the inheritance of
our fathers shall be preserved or thrown away; whether our Sabbaths shall
be a delight or a loathing; whether the taverns, on that holy day shall be
crowded with drunkards, or the sanctuary of God with humble worshippers;
whether riot and profaneness shall fill our streets, and poverty our
dwellings: and convicts our jails, and violence our land; or whether
industry, and temperance, and righteousness, shall be the stability of our
times; whether mild laws shall receive the cheerful submission of free men,
or the iron rod of a tyrant compel the trembling homage of slaves. Be not
deceived. The rocks and hills of New England will remain till the last
conflagration. But let the Sabbath be profaned with impunity, to worship of
God be abandoned, the government and religions instruction of children
neglected, and the streams of intemperance be permitted to flow, and her
glory will depart. The wall of fire will no longer surround her, and the
munition of rocks will no longer be her defence. The hand that overturns
our doors and temples, is the hand of Death unbarring the gate of
pandemonium, and letting loose upon our land the crimes and miseries of
hell. If the Most High should stand aloof and cast not a single ingredient
into our cup of trembling, it would seem to be full of superlative woe. But
He will not stand aloof. As we shall have begun an open controversy with
Him, he will contend openly with us. And, never, since the earth stood, has
it been so fearful a thing for nations to fall into the hands of the living
God. The day of vengeance is at hand; the day of judgment has come; the
great earthquakes which sinks Babylon is making the nations, and the waves
of the mighty commotions are dashing upon every shore. Is this, then, a
time to remove the foundations, when the earth itself is shaken? Is this a
time to forfeit the protection of God, when the hearts of men are failing
them for fear, and for looking after those things which are to come upon
the earth? Is this a time to run upon His neck and the thick bosses of His
buckler, when the nations are drinking blood, and fainting, and passing
away in His wrath? Is this the time to throw away the shield of faith, when
His arrows are drunk with the blood of the slain?--to cut from the anchor
of hope, when the clouds are collecting, and the sea and the waves are
roaring and thunders are uttering their voices, and lightnings blazing in
the heavens, and the great hail is falling from heaven upon men, and every
mountain, sea, and island is fleeing in dismay from the face of an incensed
God!
                                                                L. Beecher.


                                   XLIV.

                      ON THE IRISH DISTURBANCE BILL.

I do not rise to fawn or cringe to this House; I do not rise to supplicate
you to be merciful towards the nation to which I belong,--toward a nation
which though subject to England, is yet distinct from it. It is a distinct
nation; it has been treated as such by this country, as may be proved by
history, and by seven hundred years of tyranny. I call upon this House, as
you value the liberty of England, not to allow this nefarious bill to pass.
In it are involved the liberties of England, the liberty of the press, and.
of every other institution dear to Englishmen. Against the bill I protest,
in the name of the Irish people, and in the face of Heaven. I treat with
scorn the puny and pitiful assertions, that grievances are not to be
complained of,--that our redress is not to be agitated; for, in such
cases, remonstrances cannot be too strong, agitation cannot be too violent,
to show to the world with what injustice our fair claims are met, and under
what tyranny the people suffer.

The clause which does away with trial by jury,--what, in the name of Heaven
is it, if it is not the establishment of a revolutionary tribunal? It
drives the judge from his bench; it does away with that which is more
sacred than the throne itself--that for which your king reigns, your lords
deliberate, your commons assemble. If ever I doubted before of the success
of our agitation for repeal, this bill,--this infamous bill,--the way in
which it has been received by the House; the manner in which its opponents
have been treated; the personalities to which they have been subjected; the
yells with which one of them has this night been greeted,--all these things
dissipate my doubts, and tell me of its complete and early triumph. Do you
think those yells will be forgotten? Do you suppose their echo will not
reach the plains of my injured and insulted country; that they will not be
whispered in her green valleys, and heard from her lofty hills? O, they
will be heard there!--yes; and they will not be forgotten. The youth of
Ireland will bound with indignation,--they will say "We are eight millions;
and you treat us thus, as through we were no more to your country than the
isle of Guernsey or of Jersey!"

I have done my duty. I stand acquitted to my conscience and my country. I
have opposed this measure throughout; and I now protest against it as
harsh, oppressive, uncalled for, unjust;--as establishing an infamous
precedent, by retaliating crime against crime;--as tyrannous,--cruelly
and vindictively tyrannous!
                                                               D. O'Connel.


                                   XLV.

                      CSAR'S PAUSE UPON THE RUBICON.

An advocate of Csar's character, speaking of his benevolent disposition,
and of the reluctance with which he entered into the civil war, observes,
"How long did he pause upon the brink of the Rubicon!" How came he to the
brink of that river? How dared he cross it? Shall private men respect the
boundaries of private property, and shall a man pay no respect to the
boundaries of his country's rights? How dared he cross that river?--Oh! but
he paused upon the brink! He should leave perished on the brink, ere he had
crossed it! Why did he pause? Why does a man's heart palpitate when he is
on the point of committing an unlawful deed? Why does the very
murderer,--his victim sleeping before him, and his glaring eye taking
measure of the blow,--strike wide of the mortal part?--Because of
conscience! 'T was that made Csar pause upon the brink of the Rubicon.
Compassion!--What compassion? The compassion of an assassin, that feels a
momentary shudder as his weapon begins to cut!

Csar paused upon the brink of the Rubicon!--What was the Rubicon?--The
boundary of Csar's province. From what did it separate his province? From
his country. Was that country a desert? No: it was cultivated and fertile;
rich and populous! Its sons were men of genius, spirit, and generosity! Its
daughters were lovely, susceptible, and chaste! Friendship was its
inhabitant!--Love was its inhabitant!--Domestic affection was its
inhabitant!--Liberty was its inhabitant!--All bounded by the stream of the
Rubicon! What was Csar, that stood upon the brink of that stream?--A
traitor, bringing war and pestilence into the heart of that country! No
wonder that he paused! No wonder if, in his imagination, wrought upon by
his conscience, he had beheld blood instead of water; and heard groans
instead of murmurs. No wonder if some Gorgon horror had turned him into
stone upon the spot.--But, no!--he cried, "The die is cast!" He
plunged!--He crossed!--and Rome was free no more.
                                                             J. S. Knowles.


                                   XLVI.

                    GUSTAVUS VASA TO THE DALECARLIANS.

Swedes! countrymen! behold at last, after a thousand dangers past, your
chief, Gustavus, here! Long have I sighed 'mid foreign lands; long have I
roamed in foreign lands; at length, 'mid Swedish hearts and hands, I grasp
a Swedish spear! Yet, looking forth, although I see none but the fearless
and the free, sad thoughts the sight inspires; for where, I think, on
Swedish ground, save where these mountains frown around, can that best
heritage be found--the freedom of our sires? Yes, Sweden pines beneath the
yoke; the galling chain our fathers broke is round our country now! On
perjured craft and ruthless guilt his power a tyrant Dane has built, and
Sweden's crown, all blood-bespilt, rests on a foreign brow. On you your
country turns her eyes--on you, on you, for aid relies, scions of noblest
stem! The foremost place in rolls of fame, by right your fearless fathers
claim; yours is the glory of their name,--'t is yours to equal them. As
rushing down, when winter reigns, resistless to the shaking plains, the
torrent tears its way, and all that bars its onward course sweeps to the
sea with headlong force, so swept your sires the Dane and Norse;--can ye do
less than they? Rise! Ressert your ancient pride, and down the hills a
living tide of fiery valor pour. Let but the storm of battle lower, back to
his den the foe will cower;--then, then shall Freedom's glorious hour
strike for our land once more! What! silent motionless, ye stand? Gleams
not an eye? Moves not a hand? Think ye to fly your fate? Or till some
better cause be given, wait ye?--Then wait! till, banished, driven, ye fear
to meet the face of Heaven;--till ye are slaughtered, wait. But no! your
kindling hearts gainsay the thought. Hark! hear that bloodhound's bay! Yon
blazing village see! Rise, countrymen! Awake! Defy the haughty Dane! Your
battlecry be Freedom! We will do or die! On! Death or victory!


                                  XLVII.

                            NOBILITY OF LABOR.

I call upon those whom I address to stand up for the nobility of labor. It
is Heaven's great ordinance for human improvement. Let not that great
ordinance be broken down. What do I say? It is broken down; and it has been
broken down for ages. Let it then be built up again; here, if anywhere, on
these shores of a new world, of a new civilization But how, I may be asked,
is it broken down? Do not men toil? it may be said. They do indeed toil;
but they too generally do it because they must. Many submit to it as in
some sort a degrading necessity; and they desire nothing so much on earth
as escape from it. They fulfil the great law of labor in the letter, but
break it in the spirit; fulfill it with the muscle, but break it with the
mind. To some field of labor, mental or manual, every idler should fasten,
as a chosen and coveted theatre of improvement. But so he is not impelled
to do, under the teachings of our imperfect civilization. On the contrary,
he sits down, folds his hands, and blesses himself in his idleness. This
way of thinking is the heritage of the absurd and unjust feudal system
under which serfs labored, and gentlemen spent their lives in fighting and
feasting. It is time that this opprobrium of toil were done away. Ashamed
to toil, art thou? Ashamed of thy dingy work-shop and dusty labor-field; of
thy hard hand scarred with service more honorable than that of war; of thy
soiled and weather-stained garments, on which mother Nature has
embroidered, midst sun and rain, midst fire and steam, her own heraldic
honors? Ashamed of these tokens and titles, and envious of the flaunting
robes of imbecile idleness and vanity? It is treason to Nature; it is
impiety to Heaven; it is breaking Heaven's great ordinance. Toil, I repeat
toil--either of the brain, of the heart, or of the hand, is the only true
manhood, the only true nobility.
                                                                  O. Dewey.


                                  XLVIII.

                            SALATHIEL TO TITUS.

Son of Vespasian, I am at this hour a poor man, as I may in the next be an
exile or a slave: I have ties to life as strong as ever were bound round
the heart of man. I stand here a suppliant for the life of one whose loss
would embitter mine! Yet, not for wealth unlimited, for the safety of my
family, for the life of the noble victim that is now standing at the place
of torture, dare I abandon, dare I think the impious thought of abandoning
the cause of the City of Holiness.

Titus! in the name of that Being, to whom the wisdom of the earth is folly,
I adjure you to beware. Jerusalem is sacred. Her crimes have often wrought
her misery; often has she been trampled by the armies of the stranger. But
she is still the City of the Omnipotent; and never was blow inflicted on
her by man, that was not terribly repaid.

The Assyrian came, the mightiest power of the world; he plundered her
temple, and led her people into captivity. How long was it before his
empire was a dream, his dynasty extinguished in blood, and an enemy on his
throne? The Persian came; from her protector he turned into her oppressor;
and his empire was swept away like the dust of the desert! The Syrian smote
her; the smiter died in agonies of remorse; and where is his kingdom now?
The Egyptian smote her; and who now sits on the throne of the Ptolemies?

Pompey came: the invincible, the conqueror of a thousand cities, the light
of Rome; the lord of Asia, riding on the very wings of victory. But he
profaned her temple; and from that hour he went down,--down, like a
millstone plunged into the ocean! Blind counsel, rash ambition, womanish
fears were upon the great statesman and warrior of Rome. Where does he
sleep? What sands were colored with his blood? The universal conqueror died
a slave, by the hand of a slave! Crassus came at the head of the legions;
he plundered the sacred vessels of the sanctuary. Vengeance followed him,
and he was cursed by the curse of God. Where are the bones of the robber
and his host? Go, tear them from the jaws of the lion and the wolf of
Parthia,--their fitting tomb!

You, too: son of Vespasian, may be commissioned for the punishment of a
stiff-necked and rebellious people. You may scourge our naked vice by force
of arms; and then you may return to your own land exulting in the conquest
of the fiercest enemy of Rome. But shall you escape the common fate of the
instrument of evil? Shall you see a peaceful old age? Shall a son of yours
ever sit upon the throne? Shall not rather some monster of your blood
efface the memory of your virtues, and make Rome, in bitterness of soul,
curse the Flavian name?
                                                                  G. Croly.


                                   XLIX.

                AN APPEAL TO THE LOYALTY OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

Fellow-citizens of my native State! Let me not only admonish you as the
first magistrate of our common country not to incur the penalty of its
laws, but use the influence that a father would over his children whom he
saw rushing to certain ruin. In that paternal language, with that, paternal
feeling, let me tell you, my countrymen, that you are deluded by men who
are either deceived themselves, or wish to deceive you. Contemplate the
condition of that country of which you still form an important part!
Consider its government, uniting in one bond of common interest and general
protection so many different States--giving to all their inhabitants the
proud title of American citizen--protecting their commerce--securing their
literature and arts--facilitating their intercommunication--defending their
frontiers and making their name respected in the remotest parts of the
earth! Consider the extent of its territory, its increasing and happy
population, its advance in arts which render life agreeable, and the
sciences which elevate the mind! See education spreading the lights of
religion, morality, and general information into every cottage in this wide
extent of our Territories and States! Behold it, as the asylum where the
wretched and the oppressed find a refuge and support! Look on this picture
of happiness and honor, and say "We, too, are citizens of America! Carolina
is one of these proud States; her arms have defended, her best blood has
cemented this happy Union!" And then add, if you can, with out horror and
remorse, "This happy Union we will dissolve this picture of peace and
prosperity we will deface--this free intercourse we will interrupt--these
fertile fields we will deluge with blood--the protection of that glorious
flag we renounce--the very name of Americans we discard!" And for what,
mistaken men! for what do you throw away these inestimable blessings--for
what would you exchange your share in the advantages and honor of the
Union? For the dream of a separate independence--a dream interrupted by
bloody conflicts with your neighbors, and a vile dependence on a foreign
power.
                                                                A. Jackson.


                                    L.

                            THE SAME CONCLUDED.

There is yet time to show, that the descendants of the Pinckneys, the
Sumters the Rutledges, and of the thousand other names which adorn the
pages of your Revolutionary history, will not abandon that Union to support
which so many of them fought, and bled, and died. I adjure you, as you
honor their memory, as you love the cause of freedom to which they
dedicated their lives, as you prize the peace of your country, the lives of
its best citizens, and your own fair fame, to retrace your steps. Snatch
from the archives of your State the disorganizing edict of its
convention,--bid its members to reassemble and promulgate the decided
expression of your will, to remain in the path which alone can conduct you
to safety, prosperity, and honor;--tell them that compared to disunion, all
other evils are light, because that brings with it an accumulation of
all;--declare that you will never take the field, unless the star-spangled
banner of your country shall float over you; that you will not be
stigmatized when dead, and dishonored and scorned while you live, as the
authors of the first attack on the Constitution of your country,--its
destroyers you cannot be.

Fellow-citizens, the momentous case is before you. On your undivided
support of the Government depends the decision of the great question it
involves: whether our sacred Union will be preserved, and the blessings it
secures to us as one people shall be perpetuated. No one can doubt that the
unanimity with which that decision will be expressed, will be such as to
inspire new confidence in republican institutions; and that the prudence,
the wisdom, and the courage, which it will bring to their defense, will
transmit them unimpaired and invigorated to our children. May the Great
Ruler of nations grant that the signal blessings with which He has favored
ours, may not, by the madness of party or personal ambition, be disregarded
and lost; and may His wise Providence bring those who have produced this
crisis, to see their folly, before they feel the misery of civil strife;
and inspire a returning veneration for that Union, which, if we may dare to
penetrate His designs, He has chosen as the only means of obtaining the
high destinies to which we may reasonably aspire.
                                                                A. Jackson.


                                    LI.

                         BURR AND BLENNERHASSETT.

A plain man, who knew nothing of the curious transmutation which the wit of
man can work, would be very apt to wonder by what kind of legerdemain Aaron
Burr had contrived to shuffle himself down to the bottom of the pack, as an
accessory, and turn up poor Blennerhassett as principal, in this treason.
Who, then, is Aaron Burr, and what the part which he has borne in this
transaction? He is its author, its projector, its active executor. Bold,
ardent, restless, and aspiring, his brain conceived it, his hand brought it
into action.

Who is Blennerhassett? A native of Ireland a man of letters, who fled from
the storms of his own country to find quiet in ours. On his arrival in
America, he retired, even from the population of the Atlantic States, and
sought quiet and solitude in the bosom of our western forests. But he
brought with him taste, and science, and wealth; and "lo the desert
smiled!" Possessing himself of a beautiful island in the Ohio, he rears
upon it a palace, and decorates it with every romantic embellishment of
fancy. A shrubbery, that Shenstone might have envied, blooms around him.
Music, that might have charmed Calypso and her nymphs is his. An extensive
library spreads its treasures before him. A philosophical apparatus offers
to him all the secrets and mysteries of Nature. Peace, tranquillity, and
innocence, shed their mingled delights around him. And, to crown the
enchantment of the scene, a wife, who is said to be lovely even beyond her
sex, and graced with every accomplishment that can render it irresistible,
had blessed him with her love, and made him the father of several children.
The evidence would convince you, sir, that this is but a faint picture of
the real life. In the midst of all this peace, this innocence, and this
tranquillity, this feast of the mind, this pure banquet of the heart,--the
destroyer comes. He comes to turn this paradise into a hell. Yet the
flowers do not wither at his approach, and no monitory shuddering through
the bosom of their unfortunate possessor warns him of the ruin that is
coming upon him. A stranger presents himself. It is Aaron Burr. Introduced
to their civilities by the high rank which he had lately held in his
country, he soon finds his way to their hearts, by the dignity and
elegance of his demeanor, the light and beauty of his conversation, and the
seductive and fascinating power of his address. The conquest was not
difficult. Innocence is ever simple and credulous. Conscious of no designs
itself, it suspects none in others. It wears no guards before its breast.
Every door and portal and avenue of the heart is thrown open, and all who
choose it enter. Such was the state of Eden, when the serpent entered its
bowers!

The prisoner, in a more engaging form, winding himself into the open and
unpracticed heart of the unfortunate Blennerhassett, found but little
difficulty in changing the native character of that heart, and the object
of its affection. By degrees, he infuses into it the poison of his own
ambition. He breathes into it the fire of his own courage; a daring,
desperate thirst for glory; an ardor, panting for all the storm, and
bustle, and hurricane of life. In a short time, the whole man is changed,
and every object of his former delight relinquished. No more he enjoys the
tranquil scene; it has become flat and insipid to his taste. His books are
abandoned. His retort and crucible are thrown aside. His shrubbery bloom's
and breathes its fragrance upon the air in vain he likes it not. His ear no
longer drinks the rich melody of music; it longs for the trumpet's clangor,
and the cannon's roar. Even the prattle of his babes, once so sweet, no
longer affects him; and the angel smile of his wife, which hitherto touched
his bosom with ecstasy so unspeakable, is now unfelt and unseen. Greater
objects have taken possession of his soul. His imagination has been dazzled
by visions of diadems, and stars, and garters, and titles of nobility. He
has been taught to burn with restless emulation at the names of great
heroes and conquerors,--of Cromwell, and Csar, and Bonaparte. His
enchanted island is destined soon to relapse into a wilderness; and, in a
few months, we find the tender and beautiful partner of his bosom, whom he
lately "permitted not the winds" of summer "to visit too roughly,"--we
find her shivering, at midnight, on the wintry banks of the Ohio, and
mingling her tears with the torrents that froze as they fell.

Yet this unfortunate man, thus deluded from his interest and his
happiness,--thus seduced from the paths of innocents and peace,--thus
confounded in the toils which were deliberately spread for him, and
overwhelmed by the mastering spirit and genius of another,--this man, thus
ruined and undone, and made to play a subordinate part in this grand drama
of guilt and treason,--this man is to be called the principal offender;
while he, by whom he was thus plunged in misery, is comparatively innocent,
a mere accessory! Is this reason? Is it law? Is it humanity? Sir, neither
the human heart nor the human understanding will bear a perversion so
monstrous and absurd; so shocking to the soul; so revolting to reason!
                                                                  Wm. Wirt.


                                   LII.

                       CAUSE F0R INDIAN RESENTMENT.

You say you have bought the country. Bought it? Yes; of whom? Of the poor,
trembling natives, who knew that refusal would be vain; and who strove to
make a merit of necessity, by seeming to yield with a grace what they knew
they had not the power to retain.

Alas, the poor Indians! No wonder that they continue so implacably
vindictive against the white people. No wonder that the rage of resentment
is handed down from generation to generation. No wonder that they refuse to
associate and mix permanently with their unjust and cruel invaders and
exterminators. No wonder that, in the unabating spite and frenzy of
conscious impotence, they wage an eternal war, as well as they are able;
that they triumph in the rare opportunity of revenge; that they dance,
sing, and rejoice, as the victim shrinks and faints amid the flames, when
they imagine all the crimes of their oppressors collected on his head, and
fancy the spirits of their injured forefathers hovering over the scene,
smiling with ferocious delight at the grateful spectacle: and feasting on
the precious odor as it arises from the burning blood of the white man. Yet
the people here affect to wonder that the Indians are so very unsusceptible
of civilization; or, in other words, that they so obstinately refuse to
adopt the manners of the white man.

Go, Virginians, erase from the Indian nation the tradition of their wrongs.
Make them forget, if you can, that once this charming country was theirs;
that over these fields and through these forests their beloved forefathers
once, in careless gayety, pursued their sports and hunted their game; that
every returning day found them the sole, the peaceful, and happy
proprietors of this extensive and beautiful domain. Go, administer the cup
of oblivion to recollections like these, and then you will cease to
complain that the Indian refuses to be civilized. But, until then, surely
it is nothing wonderful that a nation, even yet bleeding afresh from the
memory of ancient wrongs, perpetually agonized by new outrages, and goaded
into desperation and madness at the prospect of the certain ruin which
awaits their descendants, should hate the authors of their miseries, of
their desolation, their destruction; should hate their manners, hate their
color, hate their language, hate their name, hate everything that belongs
to them. No, never, until time shall wear out the history of their sorrows
and their sufferings, will the Indian be brought to love the white man, and
to imitate his manners.
                                                                  Wm. Wirt.


                                   LIII.

                       SPEECH ON THE BRITISH TREATY.

The refusal of the posts (inevitable if we reject the treaty) is a measure
too decisive in its nature to be neutral in its consequences. If any should
still maintain, that the peace with the Indians will be stable without the
posts, to them I will urge another reply. I will appeal directly to the
hearts of those who hear me, and ask whether conviction is not already
planted there. I resort especially to the convictions of the Western
gentlemen, whether, supposing no posts and no treaty! the settlers will
remain in security? Can they take it upon them to say, that an Indian
peace, under these circumstances, will prove firm? No, sir, it will not be
peace, but a sword; it will be no better than a lure to draw victims within
reach of the tomahawk. On this theme my emotions are unutterable. If I
could find words for them, if my powers bore any proportion to my zeal, I
would swell my voice to such a note of remonstrance, it should reach every
log house beyond the mountains. I would say to the inhabitants, Wake from
your false security! Your cruel dangers, your more cruel apprehensions, are
soon to be renewed. The wounds yet unhealed are to be torn open again. In
the daytime, your path through the woods will be ambushed. The darkness of
midnight will glitter with the blaze of your dwellings. You are a
father--the blood of your sons shall fatten your corn-field. You are a
mother,--the war-whoop shall wake the sleep of the cradle.

On this subject you need not suspect any deception on your feelings. It is
a spectacle of horror which cannot be overdrawn. If you have nature in your
hearts, they will speak a language compared with which all I have said or
can say will be poor and frigid.

Who will accuse me of wandering out of the subject? Who will say that I
exaggerate the tendencies of our measures? Will any one answer by a sneer,
that all this is idle preaching? Would any one deny that we are bound, and
I would hope to good purpose, by the most solemn sanctions of duty for the
vote we give? Are despots alone to be reproached for unfeeling indifference
to the tears and blood of their subjects? Are republicans irresponsible?
Have the principles on which you ground the reproach upon cabinets and
kings no practical influence, no binding force? Are they merely themes of
idle declamation, introduced to decorate the morality of a newspaper essay,
or to furnish pretty topics of harangue from the windows of that State
House? I trust it is neither too presumptuous nor too late to ask, Can you
put the dearest interest of society at risk, without guilt and without
remorse?

It is in vain to offer as an excuse, that public men are not to be
reproached for the evils that may happen to ensue from their measures. This
is very true where they are unforeseen or inevitable. Those I have depicted
are not unforeseen. They are so far from inevitable, we are going to bring
them into being by our vote; we choose the consequences, and become as
justly answerable for them, as for the measure that we know will produce
them.

By rejecting the posts, we light the savage fires, we bind the victims.
This day we undertake to render account to the widows and orphans whom our
decision will make,--to the wretches that will be roasted at the stake,--to
our country,--and I do not deem it too serious to say, to conscience and to
God. We are answerable; and if duty be anything more than a word of
imposture, if conscience be not a bugbear, we are preparing to make
ourselves as wretched as our country. There is no mistake in this case;
there can be none. Experience has already been the prophet of events, and
the cries of our future victims has already reached us. The Western
inhabitants are not a silent and uncomplaining sacrifice. The voice of
humanity issues from the shade of the wilderness. It exclaims, that while
one hand is held up to reject this treaty, the other grasps the tomahawk.
It summons our imagination to the scenes that will open. It is no great
effort of the imagination to conceive that events so near are already
begun. I can fancy that I listen to the yells of savage vengeance and the
shrieks of torture! Already they seem to sigh in the western wind! Already
they mingle with every echo from the mountains!
                                                                   F. Ames.


                                   LIV.

                        SPEECH AGAINST A LIBELLER.

I am one of those who believe that the heart of the wilful and deliberate
libeller is blacker than that of the highway robber, or of one who commits
the crime of midnight arson. The man who plunders on the highway may have
the semblance of an apology for what he does. An affectionate wife may
demand subsistence; a circle of helpless children raise to him the
supplicating hand for food. He may be driven to the desperate act by the
high mandate of imperative necessity. The mild features of the husband and
father may intermingle with those of the robber and soften the roughness of
the shade. But the robber of character plunders that which "not enricheth
him," though it makes his neighbor "poor indeed." The man who at the
midnight hour consumes his neighbor's dwelling does him an injury which
perhaps is not irreparable. Industry may rear another habitation. The storm
may indeed descend upon him until charity opens a neighboring door; the
rude winds of heaven may whistle around his uncovered family. But he looks
forward to better days; he has yet a hook left to hang a hope on. No such
consolation cheers the heart of him whose character has been torn from him.
If innocent he may look, like Anaxagoras, to the heavens; but he must be
constrained to feel this world is to him a wilderness. For whither shall he
go? Shall he dedicate himself to the service of his country? But will his
country receive him? Will she employ in her councils, or in her armies, the
man at whom the "slow unmoving finger of scorn" is pointed? Shall he betake
himself to the fireside? The story of his disgrace will enter his own doors
before him. And can he bear, think you, can he bear the sympathizing
agonies of a distressed wife? Can he endure the formidable presence of
scrutinizing, sneering domestics? Will his children receive instructions
from the lips of a disgraced father?

Gentlemen, I am not ranging on fairy ground. I am telling the plain story
of my client's wrongs. By the guiltless hand of malice his character has
been wantonly massacred,--and he now appears before a jury of his country
for redress. Will you deny him this redress? Is character valuable? On this
point I will not insult you with argument. There are certain things to
argue which is treason against nature. The Author of our being did not
intend to leave this point afloat at the mercy of opinion, but with His own
hand has He kindly planted in the soul of man an instinctive love of
character. This high sentiment has no affinity to pride. It is the
ennobling quality of the soul; and if we have hitherto been elevated above
the ranks of surrounding creation, human nature owes its elevation to the
love of character. It is the love of character for which the poet has sung,
the philosopher toiled, the hero bled. It is the love of character which
wrought miracles at ancient Greece; the love of character is the eagle on
which Rome rose to empire. And it is the love of character, animating the
bosoms of her sons, on which America must depend in those approaching
crises that may "try men's soul's." Will a jury weaken this our nation's
hope? Will they by their verdict pronounce to the youth of our country,
that character is scarce worth possessing?

We read of that philosophy which can smile at the destruction of
property--of that religion which enables its possessor to extend the benign
look of forgiveness and complacency to his murderers. But it is not in the
soul of man to bear the laceration of slander. The philosophy which could
bear it we should despise. The religion which could bear it we should not
despise,--but we should be constrained to say, that its kingdom was not of
this world.
                                                                   Griffin.


                                    LV.

                        NEW ENGLAND AND THE UNION.

Glorious New England! thou art still time to thy ancient fame, and worthy
of thy ancestral honors. We, thy children, have assembled in this
far-distant land to celebrate thy birthday. A thousand fond associations
throng upon us, roused by the spirit of the hour. On thy pleasant valleys
rest, like sweet dews of morning, the gentle recollections of our early
life; around thy hills and mountains cling, like gathering mists, the
mighty memories of the Revolution; and, far away in the horizon of thy
past, gleam, like thy own bright northern lights, the awful virtues of our
Pilgrim Sires!

But while we devote this day to the remembrance of our native land, we
forget not that in which our happy lot is cast. We exult in the reflection,
that though we count by thousands the miles which separate us from our
birthplace, still our country is the same. We are no exiles, meeting upon
the banks of a foreign river to swell its waters with our homesick tears.
Here floats the same banner which rustled above our boyish heads, except
that its mighty folds are wider, and its glittering stars increased in
number.

The sons of New England are found in every State of the broad Republic. In
the East, the South, and the unbounded West, their blood mingles freely
with every kindred current. We have but changed our chamber in the paternal
mansion; in all its rooms we are at home, and all who inhabit it are our
brothers. To us the Union has but one domestic hearth; its household gods
are all the same. Upon us then peculiarly devolves the duty of feeding the
fires upon that kindly hearth, of guarding with pious care those sacred
household gods.

We cannot do with less than the whole Union; to us it admits of no
division. In the veins of our children flows Northern and Southern blood.
How shall it be separated? Who shall put asunder the best affections of the
heart, the noblest instincts of our nature? We love the land of our
adoption; so do we that of our birth. Let us ever be true to both, and
always exert ourselves in maintaining the unity of our country, the
integrity of the Republic. Accursed, then, be the hand put forth to loosen
the golden cord of the Union!--thrice accursed the traitorous lips which
shall propose its severance! But no; the Union cannot be dissolved. Its
fortunes are too brilliant to be marred; its destinies too powerful to be
resisted. Here will be their greatest triumphs, their most mighty
development. And when, a century hence, this Crescent City shall have
filled her golden horns,--when within her broad-armed port shall be
gathered the products of the industry of a hundred millions of
freemen,--when galleries of art and halls of learning shall have made
classic this mart of trade,--then may the sons of the Pilgrims, still
wandering from the bleak hills of the North, stand upon the banks of the
great river and exclaim with mingled pride and wonder,--"Lo, this is our
country: when did the world ever behold so rich and magnificent a city,--so
great and glorious a Republic!"
                                                            S. S. Prentiss.


                                   LVI.

                       ON SENDING RELIEF TO IRELAND.

We have assembled, not to respond to shouts of triumph from the West, but
to answer to the cry of want and suffering which comes from the East. The
Old World stretches out her arms to the New. The starving parent
supplicates the young and vigorous child for bread. There lies, upon the
other side of the wide Atlantic, a beautiful island famous in history and
in song. Its area is not so great as that of the State of Louisiana, while
its population is almost half that of the Union. It has given to the world
more than its share of genius and of greatness. It has been prolific in
statesmen, warriors, and poets. Its brave and generous sons have fought
successfully all battles but their own. In wit and humor it has no equal,
while its harp, like its history, moves to tears, by its sweet but
melancholy pathos. Into this fair region God has seen fit to send the most
terrible of all those fearful ministers who fulfil his inscrutable decrees.
The earth has failed to give her increase; the common mother has forgotten
her offspring, and her breast no longer affords them their accustomed
nourishment. Famine, gaunt and ghastly famine, has seized a nation in its
strangling grasp; and unhappy Ireland, in the sad woes of the present,
forgets, for a moment, the gloomy history of the past.

Oh, it is terrible, in this beautiful world: which the good God has given
us, and in which there is plenty for us all, that men should die of
starvation! You who see, each day, poured into the lap of your city, food
sufficient to assuage the hunger of a nation, can form but an imperfect
idea of the horrors of famine. In battle, in the fulness of his pride and
strength, little recks the soldier whether the hissing bullet sings his
sudden requiem, or the cords of life are severed by the sharp steel. But he
who dies of hunger, wrestles alone, day after day with his grim and
unrelenting enemy. The blood recedes, the flesh deserts, the muscles relax,
and the sinews grow powerless. At last, the mind, which, at first, had
bravely nerved itself for the contest, gives way, under the mysterious
influences which govern its union with the body. Then he begins to doubt
the existence of an overruling Providence; he hates his fellow-men, and
glares upon them with the longings of a cannibal, and it may be, dies
blaspheming!

Who will hesitate to give his mite to avert such awful results? Surely not
the citizens of New Orleans, ever famed for deeds of charity and
benevolence. Freely leave your hearts and purses opened, heretofore, to the
call of suffering humanity. Nobly did you respond to oppressed Greece and
to struggling Poland. Within Erin's borders is an enemy more cruel than the
Turk, more tyrannical than the Russian. Bread is the only weapon that can
conquer him. Let us, then load ships with this glorious munition, and, in
the name of our common humanity wage war against this despot Famine. Let
us, in God's name, "cast our bread upon the waters," and if we are selfish
enough to desire it back again, we may recollect the promise, that it shall
return to us after many days.
                                                            S. S. Prentiss.


                                   LVII.

                      THE NEW ENGLAND COMMON SCHOOL.

Behold yon simple building near the crossing of the village road! It is
small, and of rude construction, but stands in a pleasant and quiet spot. A
magnificent old elm spreads its broad arms above, and seems to lean towards
it, as a strong man bends to shelter and protect a child. A brook runs
through the meadow near, and hard by there is an orchard; but the trees
have suffered much, and bear no fruit, except upon the most remote and
inaccessible branches. From within its walls comes a busy hum, such as you
may hear in a disturbed beehive. Now peep through yonder window, and you
will see a hundred children with rosy cheeks, mischievous eyes, and demure
faces, all engaged, or pretending to be so, in their little lessons. It is
the public school,--the free, the common school,--provided by law; open to
all; claimed from the community as a right, not accepted as a bounty.

Here the children of the rich and poor, high and low, meet upon perfect
equality, and commence, under the same auspices, the race of life. Here the
sustenance of the mind is served up to all alike, as the Spartans served
their food upon the public table. Here, young Ambition climbs his little
ladder, and boyish Genius plumes his half-fledged wing. From among these
laughing children will go forth the men who are to control the destinies of
their age and country; the statesman, whose wisdom is to guide the Senate;
the poet, who will take captive the hearts of the people, and bind them
together with immortal song; the philosopher, who, boldly seizing upon the
elements themselves, will compel them to his wishes, and, through new
combinations of their primal laws, by some great discovery, revolutionize
both art and science.

The common village-school is New England's fairest boast,--the brightest
jewel that, adorns her brow. The principle that society is bound to provide
for its members' education as well as protection, so that none need be
ignorant except from choice, is the most important that belongs to modern
philosophy. It is essential to a republican government. Universal education
is not only the best and surest, but the only sure, foundation for free
institutions. True liberty is the child of knowledge; she pines away and
dies in the arms of ignorance. Honor, then, to the early fathers of New
England, from whom came the spirit which has built a school-house by every
sparkling fountain, and bids all come as freely to the one as to the other.
                                                            S. S. Prentiss.


                                  LVIII.

                    CHRISTIANITY THE SOURCE OF REFORM.

The great element of reform is not born of human wisdom: it does not draw
its life from human organizations. I find it only in Christianity. "Thy
kingdom come!" There is a sublime and pregnant burden in this prayer. It is
the aspiration of every soul that goes forth in the spirit of Reform. For
what is the significance of this prayer? It is a petition that all holy
influences would penetrate, and subdue, and dwell in the heart of man,
until he shall think, and speak, and do good, from the very necessity of
his being. So would the institutions of error and wrong crumble and pass
away. So would sin die out from the earth; and the human soul living in
harmony with the Divine Will, this earth would become like Heaven. It is
too late for the reformers to sneer at Christianity,--it is foolishness
for them to reject it. In it are enshrined our faith in human
progress,--our confidence in reform. It is indissolubly connected with all
that is hopeful, spiritual, capable in man. That men have misunderstood
it, and perverted it, is true. But it is also true, that the noblest
efforts for human melioration have come out of it,--have been based upon
it. Is it not so? Come, ye remembered ones, who sleep the sleep of the
just,--who took your conduct from the line of Christian philosophy--come
from your tombs, and answer!

Come, Howard, from the gloom of the prison and the taint of the
lazar-house, and show us what philanthropy can do when imbued with the
spirit of Jesus. Come, Eliot, from the thick forest where the red man
listens to the Word of Life;--come, Penn, from thy sweet counsel and
weaponless victory,--and show us what Christian zeal and Christian love
can accomplish with the rudest barbarians or the fiercest hearts. Come,
Raikes, from thy labors with the ignorant and the poor, and show us with
what an eye this Faith regards the lowest and the least of our race; and
how diligently it labors, not for the body, not for the rank, but for the
plastic soul that is to course the ages of immortality. And ye, who are a
great number,--ye nameless ones,--who have done good in your narrow
spheres, content to forego renown on earth, and seeking your reward in the
Record on High,--come and tell us how kindly a spirit, how lofty a purpose,
or how strong a courage, the Religion ye professed can breathe into the
poor, the humble, and the weak. Go forth, then, Spirit of Christianity, to
thy great work of Reform! The Past bears witness to thee in the blood of
thy martyrs, and the ashes of thy saints and heroes: the Present is hopeful
because of thee; the Future shall acknowledge thy omnipotence.
                                                              E. H. Chapin.


                                   LIX.

                            NORTHERN LABORERS.

The gentleman, sir, has misconceived the spirit and tendency of Northern
institutions. He is ignorant of Northern character. He has forgotten the
history of his country. Preach insurrection to the Northern laborers! Who
are the Northern laborers? The history of your country is their history.
The renown of your country is their renown. The brightness of their doings
is emblazoned on its every page. Blot from your annals the words and the
doings of Northern laborers, and the history of your country presents but a
universal blank.

Sir, who was he that disarmed the Thunderer; wrested from his grasp the
bolts of Jove; calmed the troubled ocean; became the central sun of the
philosophical system of his age, shedding his brightness and effulgence on
the whole civilized world; whom the great and mighty of the earth delighted
to honor; who participated in the achievement of your Independence,
prominently assisted in moulding your free institutions, and the beneficial
effects of whose wisdom will be felt to the last moment of "recorded
time?" Who sir, I ask, was he? A Northern laborer, a Yankee
tallow-chandler's son,--a printer's runaway boy!

And who, let me ask the honorable gentleman, who was he that, in the days
of our Revolution, led forth a northern army,--yes, an army of Northern
laborers,--and aided the chivalry of South Carolina in their defence
against British aggression, drove the spoilers from their firesides, and
redeemed her fair fields from foreign invaders? Who was he? A Northern
laborer, a Rhode Island blacksmith,--the gallant General Greene, who left
his hammer and his forge, and went forth conquering and to conquer in the
battle for our Independence! And will you preach insurrection to men like
these?

Sir, our country is full of the achievements of Northern laborers. Where is
Concord, and Lexington, and Princeton, and Trenton, and Saratoga, and
Bunker Hill, but in the North? And what, sir, has shed an imperishable
renown on the never-dying names of those hallowed spots, but the blood and
the struggles, the high daring, and patriotism, and sublime courage of
Northern laborers? The whole North is an everlasting monument of the
freedom, virtue, intelligence, and indomitable independence of Northern
laborers! Go, sir, go preach insurrection to men like these!

The fortitude of the men of the North, under intense suffering for
liberty's sake, has been almost godlike! History has so recorded it. Who
comprised that gallant army, without food, without pay shelterless,
shoeless, penniless, and almost naked, in that dreadful winter,--the
midnight of our Revolution,--whose wanderings could be traced by their
blood-tracks in the snow; whom no arts could seduce, no appeal lead astray,
no sufferings disaffect; but who, true to their country and its holy cause,
continued to fight the good fight of liberty until it finally triumphed?
Who, sir, were these men? Why, Northern laborers! Yes, sir, Northern
laborers! Who, sir, were Roger Sherman, and--but it is idle to enumerate.
To name the Northern laborers who have distinguished themselves, and
illustrated the history of their country, would require days of the time of
this House; nor is it necessary. Posterity will do them Justice. Their
deeds have been recorded in characters of fire!
                                                                 C. Naylor.


                                    LX.

                  BROUGHAM'S ATTACK ON CANNING DESCRIBED.

Upon that occasion, the oration of Brougham was, at the outset, disjointed
and ragged, and apparently without aim or application. He careered over the
whole annals of the world, and collected every instance in which genius had
degraded itself at the footstool of power, or principle had been sacrificed
for the vanity or the lucre of place; but still there was no allusion to
Canning, and no connection that ordinary men could discover with the
business before the House. When however, he had collected every material
which suited his purpose,--when the mass had become big and black, he bound
it about and about with the cords of illustration and of argument; when its
union was secure, he swung it round and round with the strength of a giant
and the rapidity of a whirlwind, in order that its impetus and effect might
be more tremendous; and, while doing this, he ever and anon glared his eye,
and pointed his finger to make the aim and direction sure.

Canning was the first who seemed to be aware where and how terrible was to
be the collision; and he kept writhing his body in agony, and rolling his
eyes in fear, as if anxious to find some shelter from the impending bolt.
The House soon caught the impression, and every man in it was glancing his
eye fearfully, just towards the orator, and then towards the Secretary.
There was, save the voice of Brougham, which growled in that undertone of
muttered thunder, which is so fearfully audible, and of which no speaker of
the day was fully master but himself, a silence as if the angel of
retribution had been flaring in the face of all parties the scroll of their
personal and political sins. A pen, which one of the Secretaries dropped
upon the matting, was heard in the remotest part of the house; and the
voting members, who often slept in the side-galleries during the debate,
started up as though the final trump had been sounding them to give an
account of their deeds.

The stiffness of Brougham's figure had vanished; his features seemed
concentrated almost to a point; he glanced toward every part of the House
in succession; and, sounding the death-knell of the Secretary's forbearance
and prudence, with both his clinched hands upon the table, he hurled at him
an accusation more dreadful in its gall, and more torturing in its effects
than ever had been hurled at mortal man within the same walls. The result
was instantaneous--was electric; it was as when the thunder-cloud descends
upon some giant peak--one flash, one peal--the sublimity vanished, and all
that remained was the small and cold pattering of rain. Canning started to
his feet, and was able only to utter the unguarded words, "It is false!"
to which followed a dull chapter of apologies. From that moment, the House
became more a scene of real business than of airy display and angry
vituperation.
                                                                 Anonymous.

                                   LXI.

                   SOUTH CAROLINA DURING THE REVOLUTION.

It is with unfeigned reluctance, Mr. President, that I enter upon the
performance of this part of my duty. I shrink almost instinctively from a
course, however necessary, which may have a tendency to excite sectional
feelings and sectional jealousies. But, sir, the task has been forced upon
me, and I proceed right onward to the performance of my duty. Be the
consequences what they may, the responsibility is with those who have
imposed upon me this necessity. The Senator from Massachusetts has thought
proper to cast the first stone, and if he shall find, according to the
homely adage, that "he lives in a glass house,"--on his head be the
consequences. The gentleman has made a great flourish about his fidelity to
Massachusetts. I shall make no professions of zeal for the interests and
honor of South Carolina--of that my constituents shall Judge.

If there be one State in the Union, Mr. President, (and I say it not in a
boastful spirit,) that may challenge comparison with any other for a
uniform, zealous, ardent, and uncalculating devotion to the Union, that
State is South Carolina. Sir, from the very commencement of the Revolution
up to this hour, there is no sacrifice, however great, she has not
cheerfully made; no service she has hesitated to perform. She has adhered
to you in your prosperity, but in your adversity she has clung to you with
more than filial affection. No matter what was the condition of her
domestic affair's--though deprived of her resources, divided by parties, or
surrounded by difficulties,--the call of the country has been to her as the
voice of God. Domestic discord ceased as the sound--every man became at
once reconciled to his brethren, and the sons of Carolina were all seen
crowding together to the temple, bringing their gifts to the altar of their
common country.

What, sir, was the conduct of the South during the Revolution? Sir, I honor
New England for her conduct in that glorious struggle; but great as is the
praise which belongs to her, I think at least equal honor is due to the
South. They espoused the cause of their brethren with generous zeal which
did not suffer them to stop to calculate their interest in the dispute.
Favorites of the mother country, possessed of neither ships nor seamen to
create commercial rivalship, they might have found in their situation a
guaranty that their trade would be forever fostered and protected by Great
Britain. But trampling on all considerations, either of interest or of
safety; they rushed into the conflict, and fighting for principle, perilled
all in the sacred cause for freedom. Never was there exhibited in the
history of the world, higher examples of noble daring, dreadful suffering,
and heroic endurance, than by the Whigs of Carolina during that Revolution.
The whole State, from the mountain to the sea, was overrun by an
overwhelming force of the enemy. The fruits of industry perished on the
spot where they were produced, or were consumed by the foe. The "plains of
Carolina" drank up the most precious blood of her citizens,--black and
smoking ruins marked the places which had been the habitations of her
children! Driven from their homes into the gloomy and almost impenetrable
swamps, even there the spirit of liberty survived, and South Carolina,
sustained by the example of her Sumters and her Marions, proved by her
conduct, that though her soil might be overrun, the spirit of her people
was invincible.
                                                               R. Y. Hayne.


                                   LXII.

            INCOMPETENCY OF PARLIAMENT TO PASS THE UNION BILL.

Sir,--I, in the most express terms, deny the competency of Parliament to
abolish the Legislature of Ireland. I warn you, do not dare to lay your
hand on the Constitution.--I tell you that if, circumstanced as you are,
you pass an act which surrenders the government of Ireland to the English
Parliament, it will be a nullity and that no man in Ireland will be bound
to obey it. I make the assertion deliberately,--I repeat it and I call on
any man who hears me, to take down my words;--you have not been elected for
this purpose,--you are appointed to act under the Constitution, not to
alter it,--you are appointed to exercise the functions of legislators, and
not to transfer them,--and if you do so, your act is a dissolution of the
government,--you resolve society into its original elements, and no man in
the land is bound to obey you.

Yourselves you may extinguish, but Parliament you cannot extinguish,--it is
enthroned in the hearts of the people,--it is enshrined in the sanctuary of
the Constitution,--it is immortal as the island which it protects. As well
might the frantic suicide hope that the act which destroys his miserable
body should extinguish his eternal soul. Again I therefore warn you, do not
dare to lay your hands on the Constitution; it is above your power. Sir, I
do not say that the Parliament and the people, by mutual consent and
cooperation, may not change the form of the Constitution.

But, thank God, the people have manifested no such wish,--so far as they
have spoken, their voice is decidedly against this daring innovation. You
know that no voice has been uttered in its favor, and you cannot be
infatuated enough to take confidence from the silence which prevails in
some parts of the kingdom; if you know how to appreciate that silence, it
is more formidable than the most clamorous opposition,--you may be rived
and shivered by the lightning before you hear the peal of the thunder! But,
sir, we are told we should discuss this question with calmness and
composure. I am called on to surrender my birthright and my honor, and I am
told I should be calm and composed.

National pride! Independence of our country! These, we are told by the
Minister, are only vulgar topics fitted for the meridian of the mob, but
unworthy to be mentioned in such an enlightened assembly as this; they are
trinkets and gew-gaws fit to catch the fancy of childish and unthinking
people like you, sir, or like your predecessor in that chair, but utterly
unworthy of the consideration of this House, or of the matured
understanding of the noble lord who condescends to instruct it! Gracious
God! We see a Perry re-ascending from the tomb and raising his awful voice
to warn us against the surrender of our freedom, and we see that the proud
and virtuous feelings which warmed the breast of that aged and venerable
man, are only calculated to excite the contempt of this young philosopher,
who has been transplanted from the nursery to the cabinet, to outrage the
feelings and understanding of the country.
                                                            W. C. Plunkett.


                                  LXIII.

                                WASHINGTON.

Sir, it matters very little, what immediate spot may have been the
birthplace of such a man as Washington. No people can claim, no country
appropriate him. The boon of Providence to the human race,--his fame is
eternity, and his residence, creation. Though it was the defeat of our
arms, and the disgrace of our policy, I almost bless the convulsion in
which he had his origin. If the heavens thundered, and the earth rocked,
yet, when the storm had passed, how pure was the climate that it cleared!
How bright in the brow of the firmament was the planet which it revealed to
us! In the production of Washington, it does really appear as if Nature was
endeavoring to improve upon herself, and that all the virtues of the
ancient world were but so many studies preparatory to the patriot of the
new.

Individual instances, no doubt there were,--splendid exemplifications of
some single qualification. Csar was merciful, Scipio was continent,
Hannibal was patient; but it was reserved for Washington to blend them all
in one, and, like the lovely masterpiece of the Grecian artist, to exhibit,
in one glow of associated beauty, the pride of every model and the
perfection of every master.

As a general, he marshalled the peasant into a veteran, and supplied by
discipline the absence of experience; as a statesman, he enlarged the
policy of the cabinet into the most comprehensive system of general
advantage; and such was the wisdom of his views, and the philosophy of his
counsels, that, to the soldier and the statesman, he almost added the
character of the sage! A conqueror, he was untainted with the crime of
blood; a revolutionist, he was free from any stain of treason; for
aggression commenced the contest, and his country called him to the
command. Liberty unsheathed his sword, necessity stained, victory returned
it.

If he had paused here, history might have doubted what station to assign
him; whether at the head of her citizens or her soldiers, her heroes or her
patriots. But the last glorious act crowns his career, and banishes all
hesitation. Who like Washington, after having emancipated a hemisphere,
resigned its crown, and preferred the retirement of domestic life to the
adoration of a land he might be almost said to have created! Happy, proud
America! The lightnings of heaven yielded to your philosophy! The
temptations of earth could not seduce your patriotism.
                                                               C. Phillips.


                                   LXIV.

                                EDUCATION.

Of all the blessings which it has pleased Providence to allow us to
cultivate, there is not one which breathes a purer fragrance, or bears a
heavenlier aspect than education. It is a, companion which no misfortune
can depress, no clime destroy no enemy alienate, no despotism enslave; at
home a friend, abroad an introduction, in solitude a solace, in
society an ornament; it chastens vice, it guides virtue, it gives at once a
grace and government to genius. Without it, what is man? A splendid slave!
A reasoning savage, vascillating between the dignity of an intelligence
derived from God, and the degradation of passion participated with brutes;
and in the accident of their alternate ascendency, shuddering at the
terrors of a hereafter, or embracing the horrid hope of annihilation. What
is this wondrous world of his residence?

                 "A mighty maze, and all without a plan:"

a dark, and desolate, and dreary cavern, without wealth, or ornament, or
order. But light up within it the torch of knowledge, and how wondrous the
transition! The seasons change, the atmosphere breathes, the landscape
lives, earth unfolds its fruits, ocean rolls in its magnificence, the
heavens display their constellated canopy, and the grand animated spectacle
of nature rises revealed before him, its varieties regulated, and its
mysteries resolved! The phenomena which bewilder, the prejudices which
debase, the superstitions which enslave, vanish before education.

Like the holy symbol which blazed upon the cloud before the hesitating
constantly, if man follow but its precepts, purely it will not only lead
him to the victories of this world, but open the very portals of
Omnipotence for his admission. Cast your eye over the monumental map of
ancient grandeur, once studded with the stars of empire and the splendors
of philosophy. What erected the little State of Athens into a powerful
Commonwealth, placing in her hand the sceptre of legislation, and wreathing
round her brow the imperishable chaplet of literary fame? What extended
Rome, the heart of banditti, into universal empire? What animated Sparta
with that high, unbending, adamantine courage, which conquered Nature
herself, and has fixed her in the sight of future ages, a model of public
virtue, and a proverb of national independence? What but those wise public
institutions which strengthened their minds with early application,
informed their infancy with the principles of actions, and sent them into
the world too vigilant to be deceived by its calms, and too vigorous to be
shaken by its whirlwinds?
                                                               C. Phillips.


                                   LXV.

                     CHARACTER OF NAPOLEON BONAPARTE.

He is fallen! We may now pause before that splendid prodigy, which towered
amongst us like some ancient ruin, whose frown terrified the glance its
magnificence attracted. Grand, gloomy, and peculiar, he sat upon the throne
a sceptered hermit, wrapped in the solitude of his own originality. A mind,
bold, independent, and decisive,--a will, despotic in its dictates,--an
energy that distanced expedition, and a conscience pliable to every touch
of interest, marked the outline of this extraordinary character,--the most
extraordinary, perhaps, that in the annals of this world ever rose, or
reigned, or fell. Flung into life in the midst of a revolution that
quickened every energy of a people who acknowledge no superior, he
commenced his course, a stranger by birth, and a scholar by charity! With
no friend but his sword, and no fortune but his talents, he rushed into the
list where rank, and wealth, and genius had arrayed themselves, and
competition fell from him as from the glance of destiny. He knew no motive
but interest,--he acknowledged no criterion but success,--he worshiped no
God but ambition, and with an eastern devotion he knelt at the shrine of
his idolatry. Subsidiary to this, there was no creed that he did not
profess, there was no opinion that he dill not promulgate; in the hope of a
dynasty, he upheld the crescent; for the sake of a divorce, he bowed before
the cross; the orphan of St. Louis, he became the adopted child of the
republic; and with a parricidal ingratitude, on the ruins both of the
throne and the tribune, he reared the throne of his despotism. A professed
Catholic, he imprisoned the pope; a pretended patriot, he impoverished the
country; and in the name of Brutus, he grasped without remorse, and wore
without shame, the diadem of the Csars.
                                                               C. Phillips.


                                   LXVI.

                           A COLLISION OF VICES.

My honorable and learned friend began by telling us that, after all, hatred
is no bad thing in itself "I hate a Tory," says my honorable friend; "and
another man hates a cat; but it does not follow that he would hunt down the
cat, or I the Tory." Nay, so far from it, hatred, if it be properly
managed, is, according to my honorable friend's theory, no bad preface to a
rational esteem and affection. It prepares its votaries for a
reconciliation of differences; for lying down with their most inveterate
enemies, like the leopard and the kid in the vision of the prophet. This
dogma is a little startling, but it is not altogether without precedent. It
is borrowed from a character in a play, which is, I dare say, as great a
favorite with my learned friend as it is with me,--I mean the comedy of the
Rivals; in which Mrs. Malaprop, giving a lecture on the subject of marriage
to her niece (who is unreasonable enough to talk of liking, as a necessary
preliminary to such a union), says, "What have you to do with your likings
and your preferences, child? Depend upon it, it is safest to begin with a
little aversion. I am sure I hated your poor dear uncle like a blackamoor
before we were married; and yet, you know, my dear, what a good wife I made
him." Such is my learned friend's argument, to a hair. But finding that
this doctrine did not appear to go down with the House so glibly as he had
expected my honorable and learned friend presently changed his tack and put
forward a theory which, whether for novelty or for beauty, I pronounce to
be incomparable; and, in short, as wanting nothing to recommend it but a
slight foundation in truth. "True philosophy," says my honorable friend,
"will always continue to lead men to virtue by the instrumentality of their
conflicting vices. The virtues where more than one exists, may live
harmoniously together; but the vices bear mortal antipathy to one another,
and, therefor, furnish to the moral engineer the power by which he can make
each keep the other under controls." Admirable! but upon this doctrine, the
poor man who has but one single vice must be in a very bad way. No fulcrum
no moral power, for effecting his cure! Whereas his more fortunate
neighbor, who has two or more vices in his composition, is in a fair way of
becoming a very virtuous member of society. I wonder how my learned friend
would like to have this doctrine introduced into his domestic
establishment. For instance, suppose that I discharge a servant because he
is addicted to liquor, I could not venture to recommend him to my honorable
and learned friend. It might be the poor man's only fault and therefor
clearly incorrigible; but, if I had the good fortune to find out that he
was also addicted to stealing, might I not with a safe conscience send him
to my learned friend with a strong recommendation, saying "I send you a
man whom I know to be a drunkard; but I am happy to assure you he is also a
thief: you cannot do better than employ him; you will make his drunkenness
counteract his thievery, and no doubt you will bring him out of the
conflict a very moral personage!"
                                                                G. Canning.


                                  LXVII.

                            "MEASURES, NOT MEN"

If I am pushed to the wall, and forced to speak my opinion, I have no
disguise nor reservation:--I do think that this is a time when the
administration of the Government ought to be in the ablest and fittest
hands; I do not think the hands in which it is now placed answer to that
description. I do not pretend to conceal in what quarter I think that
fitness most eminently resides; I do not subscribe to the doctrines which
have been advanced, that, in times like the present, the fitness of
individuals for their political situation is no part of the consideration
to which a member of Parliament may fairly turn his attention. I know not a
more solemn or important duty that a member of Parliament can have to
discharge, than by giving, at fit seasons, a free opinion upon the
character and qualities of public men. Away with the cant of "measures, not
men!" the idle supposition that it is the harness, and not the horses, that
draws the chariot along! No, sir, if the comparison must be made, if the
distinction must be taken, men are everything, measures computatively
nothing. I speak, sir, of times of difficulty and danger; of times when
systems are shaken, when precedents and general rules of conduct fail. Then
it is, that not to this or that measure,--however prudently devised,
however blameless in execution,--but to the energy and character of
individuals, a state must be indebted for its salvation. Then it is that
kingdoms rise or fall in proportion as they are upheld, not by well meant
endeavors (laudable though they may be), but by commanding, overawing
talents,--by able men.

And what is the nature of the times in which we live? Look at France, and
see what we have to cope with, and consider what has made her what she is.
A man! You will tell me that she was great, and powerful, and formidable,
before the days of Bonaparte's government; that he found in her great
physical and moral resources; that he had but to turn them to account,
True, and he did so. Compare the situation in which he found France with
that to which he has raised her. I am no panegyrist of Bonaparte; but I
cannot shut my eyes to the superiority of his talents, to the amazing
ascendency of his genius, Tell me not of his measures and his policy. It is
his genius, his character, that keeps the world in awe. Sir, to meet, to
check, to curb, to stand up against him, we want arms of the same kind. I
am far from objecting to the large military establishments which are
proposed to you. I vote for them, with all my heart. But, for the purpose
of coping with Bonaparte, one great, commanding spirit is worth them all.
                                                                G. Canning.


                                  LXVIII.

                           PARLIAMENTARY REFORM.

My Lords, I do not disguise the intense solicitude which I feel for the
event of this debate, because I know full well that the peace of the
country is involved in the issue. I cannot look without dismay at the
rejection of this measure of parliamentary reform. But, grievous as may be
the consequences of a temporary defeat, temporary it can only be; for its
ultimate, and even speedy success, is certain. Nothing can now stop it. Do
not suffer yourselves to be persuaded that, even if the present ministers
were driven from the helm, any one could steer you through the troubles
which surround you, without reform. But our successors would take up the
task in circumstances far less auspicious. Under them, you would be fain to
grant a bill, compared with which, the one we now proffer you is moderate
indeed.

Hear the parable of the Sibyl; for it conveys a wise and wholesome moral.
"She now appears at your gate, and offers you mildly the volumes--the
precious volumes--of wisdom and peace. The price she asks is reasonable; to
restore the franchise, which, without any bargain, you ought voluntarily to
give. You refuse her terms--her moderate terms;--she darkens the porch no
longer. But soon--for you cannot do without her wares--you call her back.
Again she comes, but with diminished treasures; the leaves of the book are
in part torn away by lawless hands, in part defaced with characters of
blood. But the prophetic maid has risen in her demands;--it is Parliaments
by the year--it is vote by the ballot--it is suffrage by the million! From
this you turn away indignant; and, for the second time, she departs. Beware
of her third coming! for the treasure you must have; and what price she may
next demand, who shall tell? It may even be the mace which rests upon that
woolsack! What may follow your course of obstinacy, if persisted in, I
cannot take upon me to predict, nor do I wish to conjecture. But this I
know full well; that as sure as man is mortal, and to err is human, justice
deferred enhances the price at which you must purchase safety and
peace;--nor can you expect to gather in another crop than they did who went
be fore you, if you persevere in their utterly abominable husbandry of sowing
injustice and reaping rebellion.

But, among the awful considerations that now bow down my mind, there is one
that stands preeminent above the rest. You are the highest judicature in
the realm; you sit here as judges, and decide all causes, civil and
criminal, without appeal. It is a Judge's just duty never to pronounce a
sentence, in the most trifling case, without hearing. Will you make this
the exception? Are you really prepared to determine, but not to hear, the
mighty cause, upon which a Nation's hopes and fears hang? You are? Then
beware of your decision! Rouse not, I beseech you, a peace-loving but a
resolute people! Alienate not from your body the affections of a whole
Empire! As your friend, as the friend of my order, as the friend of my
country, as the faithful servant of my sovereign, I counsel you to assist,
with your uttermost efforts, in preserving the peace, and upholding and
perpetuating the Constitution. Therefore, I pray and exhort you not to
reject this measure. By all you hold most dear--by all the ties that bind
every one of us to our common order and our common country, I solemnly
adjure you--I warn you--I implore you--yea, on my bended knees, I
supplicate you,--reject not this bill!
                                                             Lord Brougham.


                                   LXIX.

                         DENUNCIATION OF SLAVERY.

I trust at length the time has come, when Parliament will no longer bear to
be told, that slave-owners are the best lawgivers on slavery; no longer
suffer our voice to roll across the Atlantic in empty warnings and
fruitless orders. Tell me not of rights,--talk not of the property of the
planter in his slave. I deny his rights,--I acknowledge not the property.
The principles, the feelings of our common nature, rise in rebellion
against it. Be the appeal made to the understanding or to the heart, the
sentence is the same, that rejects it.

In vain you tell me of laws that sanction such a claim! There is a law
above all the enactments of human codes,--the same throughout the
world,--the same in all times; such as it was before the daring genius of
Columbus pierced the night of ages, and opened to one world the source of
power, wealth, and knowledge,--to the others all unutterable woes, such is
it at this day; it is the law written by the finger of God on the heart of
man; and be that law, unchangeable and eternal, while men despise fraud,
and loathe rapine, and hate blood, they shall reject with indignation the
wild and guilty fantasy, that man can hold property in man!

In vain ye appeal to treaties,--to covenants between nations. The covenants
of the Almighty, whether the old covenant or the new, denounce such unholy
pretensions. To these laws did they of old refer, who maintained the
African trade. Such treaties did they cite, and not untruly; for, by one
shameful compact, you bartered the glories of Blenheim for the traffic in
blood. Yet, in despite of law and of treaty, that infernal traffic is now
destroyed, and its votaries put to death like other pirates. How came this
change to pass? Not, assuredly, by Parliament leading the way; but the
country at length awoke; the indignation of the people was kindled; it
descended in thunder, and smote the traffic, and scattered its guilty
profit to the winds. Now, then, let the planters beware,--let their
assemblies beware,--let the government at home beware,--let the Parliament
beware! The same country is once more awake,--awake to the condition of
negro slavery; the same indignation kindles in the bosom of the same
people; the same cloud is gathering that annihilated the slave-trade; and
if it shall descend again, they, on whom its crash may fall, will not be
destroyed before I have warned them; but I pray that their destruction may
turn away from us the more terrible judgments of God!
                                                             Lord Brougham.


                                   LXX.

                         THE TEACHERS OF MANKIND.

There is nothing which the adversaries of improvement are more wont to make
themselves merry with than what is termed the "march of intellect;" and
here I will confess, that I think, as far as the phrase goes, they are in
the right. It is a very absurd, because a very incorrect expression. It is
little calculated to describe the operation in question. It does not
picture an image at all resembling the proceedings of the true friends of
mankind. It much more resembles the progress of the enemy to all
improvement. The conqueror moves in a march. He stalks onward with the
"pride, pomp, and circumstance of warp,"--banners flying--shouts rending
the air--guns thundering--and martial music pealing, to drown the shrieks
of the wounded, and the lamentations for the slain.

Not thus the schoolmaster, in his peaceful vocation. He meditates and
prepares in secret the plans which are to bless mankind; he slowly gathers
round him those who are to further their execution, he quietly, though
firmly, advances in his humble path, laboring steadily, but calmly, till he
has opened to the light all the recesses of ignorance, and torn up by the
roots the weeds of vice. His is a progress not to be compared with anything
like a march; but it leads to a far more brilliant triumph, and to laurels
more imperishable than the destroyer of his species, the scourge of the
world, ever won.

Such men--men deserving the glorious title of Teachers of Mankind--I have
found, laboring conscientiously, though, perhaps obscurely, in their
blessed vocation, wherever I have gone. I have found them, and shared their
fellowship, among the daring, the ambitious, the ardent, the indomitably
active French; I have found them among the persevering, resolute,
industrious Swiss; I have found them among the laborious, the warmhearted,
the enthusiastic Germans; I have found them among the high-minded, but
enslaved Italians; and in our own country, God be thanked, their numbers
everywhere abound, and are every day increasing.

Their calling is high and holy; their fame is the property of nations;
their renown will fill the earth in after-ages, in proportion as it sounds
not far off in their own times. Each one of those great teachers of the
world, possessing his soul in peace, performs his appointed course; awaits
in patience the fulfillment of the premises; and, resting from his labors,
bequeathed his memory to the generation whom his works have blessed, and
sleeps under the humble but not inglorious epitaph, commemorating it one in
whom mankind lost a friend, and no man got rid of an enemy."
                                                             Lord Brougham.


                                   LXXI.

                       THE GREATNESS OF WASHINGTON.

Great he was, preminently great, whether we regard him sustaining alone
the whole weight of campaigns all but desperate, or gloriously terminating
a just warfare by his resources and his courage; presiding over the jarring
elements of his political council, alike deaf to the storms of all
extremes, or directing the formation of a new government for a great
people, the first time that so vast an experiment had ever been tried by
man; or, really, retiring from the supreme power to which his virtue had
raised him over the nation he had created, and whose destinies he had
guided as long as his aid was required,--retiring with the veneration of
all parties, of all nations, of all mankind, in order that the rights of
men might be conserved, and that his example never might be appealed to by
vulgar tyrants.

This is the consummate glory of Washington; a triumphant warrior where the
most sanguine had a right to despair; a successful ruler in all the
difficulties of a course wholly untried; but a warrior, whose sword only
left its sheath when the first law of our nature commanded it to be drawn;
and a ruler who, having tasted of supreme power, gently and ostentatiously
desired that the cup might pass from him, nor would suffer more to wet his
lips than the most solemn and sacred duty to his To his country and his God
required!

To his latest breath did this great patriot maintain the noble character of
a captain the patron of peace, and a statesman the friend of justice.
Dying, he bequeathed to his heirs the sword which he had worn in the war
for liberty, and charged them "never to take it from the scabbard but in
self-defence, or in defence of their country and her freedom;" and
commanded them that, "when it should thus be drawn, they should never
sheathe it, nor ever give it up, but prefer falling with it in their hands
to the relinquishment thereof,"--words, the majesty and simple eloquence
of which are not surpassed in the oratory of Athens and Rome.

It will be the duty of the historian and the sage, in all ages, to let no
occasion pass of commemorating this illustrious man; and, until time shall
be no more, will a test of the progress which our race has made in wisdom
and virtue be derived from the veneration paid to the immortal name of
Washington!
                                                             Lord Brougham.


                                  LXXII.

                       WASHINGTON, A MAN OF GENIUS.

How many times have we been told that Washington was not a man of genius,
but a person of excellent common sense, of admirable judgement, of rare
virtues! He had no genius, it seems. O no! genius, we must suppose, is the
peculiar and shining attribute of some orator, whose tongue can spout
patriotic speeches; or some versifier, whose muse can hail Columbia; but
not of the man who supported States on his arm, and carried America in his
brain. What is genius? Is it worth anything? Is splendid folly the measure
of its inspiration? Is wisdom its base and summit?--that which it recedes
from, or tends toward? And by what definition do you award the name to the
creator of an epic, and deny it to the creator of a country? On what
principle is it to be lavished on him who sculptures in perishing marble
the image of possible excellence, and withheld from him who built up in
himself a transcendent character, indestructible as the obligations of
duty, and beautiful as her rewards?

Indeed, if by genius of action, you mean will enlightened by intelligence,
and intelligence energized by will,--if force and insight be its
characteristics, and influence its test, and if great effects suppose a
cause proportionally great, a vital, causative mind,--then was Washington
most assuredly a man of genius, and one whom no other American has equalled
in the power of working morally and mentally on other minds. His genius was
of a peculiar kind, the genius of character, of thought and the objects of
thought solidified and concentrated into active faculty. He belongs to that
rare class of men,--rare as Homers and Miltons, rare as Platos and
Newtons,--who have impressed their characters upon nations without
pampering national vices. Such men have natures broad enough to include all
the facts of a people's practical life, and deep enough to discern the
spiritual laws which underlie, animate, and govern those facts.
                                                             E. P. Whipple.


                                  LXXIII.

                    IRISH ALIENS AND ENGLISH VICTORIES.

I should be surprised, indeed, if; while you are doing us wrong, you did
not profess your solicitude to do us justice. From the day on which
Strongbow set his foot upon the shore of Ireland, Englishmen were never
wanting in protestations of their deep anxiety to do us justice;--even
Strafford, the deserter of the people's cause,--the renegade Wentworth who
gave evidence in Ireland of the spirit of instinctive tyranny which
predominated in his character,--even Strafford, while he trampled upon our
rights, and trod upon the heart of the country, protested his solicitude to
do justice to Ireland! What marvel is it, then, that gentlemen opposite
should deal in such vehement protestations? There is, however, one man, of
great abilities,--not a member of this House, but whose talents and whose
boldness have placed him in the topmost place in his party,--who,
disdaining all imposture, and thinking it the best course to appeal
directly to the religious and national antipathies of the people of this
country,--abandoning all reserve, and flinging off the slender veil by
which his political associates affect to cover, although they cannot hide,
their motives,--distinctly and audaciously tells the Irish people that they
are not entitled to the same privileges as Englishmen; and pronounces them,
in any particular which could enter his minute enumeration of the
circumstances by which fellow-citizenship is created, in race, identity,
and religion to be aliens--to be aliens in race--to be aliens in
country--to be aliens in religion! Aliens! Good God! was Arthur, Duke of
Wellington, in the House of Lords,--and did he not start up and exclaim,
"Hold! I have seen the aliens do their duty!"

The Duke of Wellington is not a man of an excitable temperament. His mind
is of a cast too martial to be easily moved; but, notwithstanding his
habitual inflexibility, I cannot help thinking that, when he heard his
Roman Catholic countrymen (for we are his countrymen) designated by a
phrase as offensive as the abundant vocabulary of his eloquent confederate
could supply,--I cannot help thinking that he ought to have recollected the
many fields of fight in which we have been contributors to his renown. "The
battles, sieges, fortunes, that he has passed," to have come back upon him.
He ought to have remembered that, from the earliest achievement in which he
displayed that military genius which has placed him foremost in the annals
of modern warfare, down to that last and surpassing combat which has made
his name imperishable,--from Assaye to Waterloo,--the Irish soldiers, with
whom your armies are filled, were the inseparable auxiliaries to the glory
with which his unparalleled successes have been crowned. Whose were the
arms that drove your bayonets at Vimiera through the phalanxes that never
reeled to the shock of war before? What desperate valor climbed the steeps
and filled the moats at Badajos? All his victories should have rushed and
crowded back upon his memory,--Vimiera, Badajos, Salamanca, Albuera,
Toulouse, and, last of all, the greatest--

Tell me--for you were there,--I appeal to the gallant soldier before me,
from whose opinions I differ, but who bears, I know, a generous heart in an
intrepid breast;--tell me, for you must needs remember, on that day when
the destinies of mankind were trembling in the balance,--while death fell
in showers when the artillery of France was levelled with a precision of
the most deadly science, when her legions, incited by the voice and
inspired by the example of their mighty leader, rushed again and again to
the onset,--tell me if, for an instant, when to hesitate for an instant
was to be lost, the "aliens" blenched? And when, at length, the moment for
the last and decided movement had arrived, and the valor which had so long
been wisely checked was, at last, let loose,--when, with words familiar
but immortal, the great captain commanded the great assault,--tell me if
Catholic Ireland with less heroic valor than the natives of this your own
glorious country precipitated herself upon the foe? The blood of England,
Scotland, and of Ireland, flowed in the same stream, and drenched the same
field. When the chill morning dawned, their dead lay cold and stark
together;--in the same deep pit their bodies were deposited; the green
corn of spring is now breaking from their commingled dust; the dew falls
from heaven upon their union in the grave. Partakers in every peril, in the
glory shall we not be permitted to participate; and shall we be told as a
requital, that we are estranged from the noble country for whose salvation
our life-blood was poured out?
                                                               R. L. Sheil.


                                  LXXIV.

                         THE ILIAD AND THE BIBLE.

Of all the books with which, since the invention of writing, this world has
been deluged, very few have produced any perceptible effect on the mass of
human character. By far the greater part have been, even by their
contemporaries, unnoticed and unknown. Not many a one has made its little
mark upon that generation that produced it, though it sunk with that
generation to utter forgetfulness. But, after the ceaseless toil of six
thousand years, how few have been the works, the adamantine basis of whose
reputation has stood unhurt amid the fluctuations of time, and whose
impression can be traced through successive centuries, on the history of
our species!

When, however, such a work appears, its effects are absolutely
incalculable; and such a work, you are aware, is the Iliad of Homer. Who
can estimate the results produced by the incomparable efforts of a single
mind? Who can tell what Greece owes to this first-born of song? Her
breathing marbles, her solemn temples, her unrivalled eloquence, and her
matchless verse, all point us to that transcendent genius, who, by the very
splendor of his own effulgence, woke the human intellect from the slumber
of ages. It was Homer who gave laws to the artist; it was Homer who
inspired the poet; it was Homer who thundered in the Senate; and, more than
all, it was Homer who was sung by the people; and hence a nation was cast
into the mould of one mighty mind, and the land of the Iliad became the
region of taste, the birthplace of the arts.

But, considered simply as an intellectual production, who will compare the
poems of Homer with the Holy Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments?
Where in the Iliad shall we find simplicity and pathos which shall vie with
the narrative of Moses, or maxims of conduct to equal in wisdom the
Proverbs of Solomon, or sublimity which does not fade away before the
conceptions of Job, or David, or Isaiah, or St. John? But I cannot pursue
this comparison. I feel that it is doing wrong to the mind which dictated
the Iliad, and to those other mighty intellects on whom the light of the
holy oracles never shined.

If, then, so great results have flowed from this one effort of a single
mind, what may we not expect from the combined efforts of several, at least
his equals in power over the human heart? If that one genius, though
groping in the thick darkness of absurd idolatry, wrought so glorious a
transformation in the character of his countrymen, what may we not look for
from the universal dissemination of those writings on whose authors was
poured the full splendor of eternal truth? If unassisted human nature,
spell-bound by a childish mythology, have done so much, what may we not
hope for from the supernatural efforts of preeminent genius, which spake as
it was moved by the Holy Ghost?
                                                               Dr. Wayland.


                                   LXXV.

                   ON ADMITTING CALIFORNIA TO THE UNION.

A year ago, California was a mere military dependency of our own. To-day,
she is a State, more populous than the least, and richer than several of
the greatest of our thirty States. This same California, thus rich and
populous, is here asking admission into the Union, and finds us debating
the dissolution of the Union itself. No wonder if we are perplexed with
ever-changing embarrassments! No wonder if we are appalled by
ever-increasing responsibilities! No wonder if we are bewildered by the
ever-augmenting magnitude and rapidity of national vicissitudes!

SHALL CALIFORNIA BE RECEIVED? For myself, upon my individual judgment and
conscience, I answer--yes. Let California come in. Every new State, whether
she come from the east or the west every new State, coming from whatever
part of the continent she may, is always welcome. But, California, that
comes from the clime where the west dies away into the rising
east,--California, that bounds at once the empire and the
continent,--California, the youthful queen of the Pacific, in her robes of
freedom, gorgeously inlaid with gold, is doubly welcome.

The question now arises, shall this one great people, having a common
origin, a common language, a common religion, common sentiments, interests,
sympathies and hopes, remain one political state, one nation, one republic;
or shall it be broken into two conflicting, and, probably, hostile nations
or republics? Shall the American people, then, be divided? Before deciding
on this question, let us consider our position, our power, and
capabilities. The world contains no seat of empire so magnificent as this;
which, embracing all the varying climates of the temperate zone, and
traversed by wide expanding lakes and long branching rivers, offers
supplies on the Atlantic shores to the overcrowded nations of Europe, and,
on the Pacific coast, intercepts the commerce of the Indies. The nations
thus situated, and enjoying forest, mineral, and agricultural resources
unequaled, if endowed, also with moral energies adequate to the achievement
of great enterprises, and flavored with a government adapted to their
character and condition, must command the empire of the seas, which, alone,
is real empire.

We think we may claim to have inherited physical and intellectual vigor,
courage, invention, and enterprise; and the systems of education prevailing
among us, open to all the stores of human science and art. The Old World
and the Past were allotted by Providence to the pupilage of mankind. The
New World and the Future seem to have been appointed for the maturity of
mankind, with the development of self-government, operating in obedience to
reason and judgment.

We may, then, reasonably hope for greatness, felicity, and renown,
excelling any hitherto attained by any nation, if, standing firmly on the
continent, we lose not our grasp on either ocean. Whether a destiny so
magnificent would be only partially defeated, or whether it would be
altogether lost by a relaxation of the grasp, surpasses our wisdom to
determine, and happily it is not important to be determined. It is enough,
if we agree, that expectations so grand, yet so reasonable and so just,
ought not in any degree to be disappointed. And now, it seems to me, that
the perpetual unity of the empire hangs on the decision of this day and
this hour.

California is already a State,--a complete and fully appointed State. She
never again can be less than that. She never again can be a province or a
colony; nor can she be made to shrink or shrivel into the proportions of a
federal dependent territory. California, then, henceforth and forever, must
be, what she is now,--a State.

The question whether she shall be one of the United States of America, has
depended on her and on us. Her election has been made. Our consent alone
remains suspended; and that consent must be pronounced now or never.
                                                              W. H. Seward.


                                  LXXVI.

                         A HIGHWAY TO THE PACIFIC.

Mr. President, I go for a national highway from the Mississippi to the
Pacific. And I go against all schemes of individuals or of companies, and
especially those who come here and ask of the Congress of the United States
to give themselves and their assigns the means of making a road, and taxing
the people for the use of it. If they should make it, they are to tax us
for the use of it--tax the people eight or ten millions a year for using a
road which their own money built. A fine scheme, that! But they would never
build it, neither themselves nor their assigns. It would all end in
stock-jobbing. I repudiate the whole idea, sir. I go for a national
highway--no stock-jobbing.

We find all the localities of the country precisely such as a national
central road would require. The Bay of San Francisco, the finest in the
world, is in the centre of the western coast of North America; it is
central, and without a rival. It will accommodate the commerce of that
coast, both north and south, up to the frozen regions, down to the torrid
zone. It is central in that respect. The commerce of the broad Pacific
Ocean will centre there. The commerce of Asia will centre there. Follow the
same latitude across the country, and it strikes the centre of the valley
of the Mississippi. It strikes the Mississippi near the confluence of all
the great waters which concentrate in the valley of the Mississippi. It
comes to the centre of the valley;--it comes to St. Louis. Follow the
prolongation of that central line, and you find it cutting the heart of the
great States between the Mississippi River and the Atlantic Ocean,
Illinois, Indiana Ohio a part of Virginia, Kentucky, and
Pennsylvania,--they are all traversed or touched by that great central
line.

We own the country, from sea to sea, from the Atlantic to the Pacific, and
upon a breadth equal to the length of the Mississippi, and embracing the
whole temperate zone. Three thousand milks across, and half that breadth,
is the magnificent parallelogram of our domain. We can run a national
central road through and through, the whole distance, under our flag and
under our laws. Military reasons require us to make it; for troops and
munitions must go there. Political reasons require us to make it; it will
be a chain of union between the Atlantic and Pacific States. Commercial
reasons demand it from us; and here I touch a boundless field, dazzling and
bewildering the imagination from its vastness and importance. The trade of
the Pacific Ocean, of this western coast of North America, and of eastern
Asia, will all take its track; and not only for ourselves, but for
posterity.

Sir, in no instance has the great Asiatic trade failed to carry the nation
or the people which possessed it to the highest pinnacle of wealth and
power, and with it, to the highest attainments of letters, art, and
science. And so will it continue to be. An American road to India, through
the heart of our country will revive upon its line all the wonders of which
we have read, and eclipse them. The western wilderness, from the Pacific to
the Mississippi, will spring into life under its touch. A long line of
cities will grow up. Existing cities will take a new start. The state of
the world calls for a new road to India, and it is our destiny to give
it--the last and greatest. Let us act up to the greatness of the occasion,
and show ourselves worthy of the extraordinary circumstances in which we
are placed, by securing, while we can, an American road to India, central
and national, for ourselves and our posterity, now and hereafter, for
thousands of years to come.
                                                              T. H. Benton.


                                  LXXVII.

                    ADDRESS TO POLISH EXILES AT LONDON.

It is eighty-one years since Poland first was quartered by a nefarious act
of combined royalty, which the Swiss Tacitus, John Mller, well
characterized by saying that "God permitted the act, to show the morality
of kings;" and it is twenty-four years since down-trodden Poland made the
greatest--not the last--manifestation of her imperishable vitality, which
the cabinets of Europe were either too narrow-minded to understand, or too
corrupt to appreciate. Eighty-one years of still unretributed crime, and
twenty-four years of misery and exile! It is a long time to suffer, and not
to despair.

And all along this time, you, proscribed patriots of Poland, were
suffering, and did not despair. You stood up before the world, a living
statue, with unquenchable life-flame of patriotism streaming through its
petrified limbs; you stood up a protest of eternal right against the sway
of imperious might; a "Mene Tekel Upharsin," written in letters of burning
blood on the walls of overweening despotism. Time, misery, and sorrow have
thinned the ranks of your scattered Israel; you have carried your dead to
the grave, and those who survive went on to suffer and to hope. Wherever
oppressed Freedom reared a banner, you rallied around;--the living statue
changed to a fighting hero. Many of yours fell; and, when crime triumphed
once more over virtue and right, you resumed the wandering exile's staff
and did not despair. Many among you, who were young when they last saw the
sun rise over Poland's mountains and plains, have your hair whitened and
your strength broken with age, anguish, and misery; but the patriotic heart
kept the freshness of its youth; it is young in love for Poland, young in
aspirations for freedom, young in hope, and youthfully fresh in
determination to break Poland's chains.

What a rich source of noble deeds patriotism must be, that has given you
strength to suffer so much and never to despair! You have given a noble
example to all of us,--your younger brother in the family of exiles. When
the battle of Cann was lost, and Hannibal was measuring by bushels the
rings of the fallen Roman knights, the Senate of Rome voted thanks to
Consul Terentius Varro for "not having despaired of the Commonwealth."
Proscribed patriots of Poland! I thank you that you have not despaired of
resurrection and of liberty. The time draws nigh when the oppressed nations
will call their aggressors to a last account; and the millions of freemen,
in the fulness of their right, and their self-conscious strength, will
class judgment on arrogant conquerors, privileged murderers, and perjured
kings. In that supreme trial, the oppressed nations will stand one for all,
and all for one.
                                                                L. Kossuth.


                                 LXXVIII.

                        KOSSUTH ON HIS CREDENTIALS.

Let ambitious fools,--let the pigmies who live on the scanty food of
personal envy, when the very earth quakes beneath their feet; let even the
honest prudence of ordinary household times, measuring eternity with that
thimble with which they are wont to measure the bubbles of small party
interest, and, taking the dreadful roaring of the ocean for a storm in a
water-glass;--let those who believe the weather to be calm, because they
have drawn a nightcap over their ears, and, burying their heads in pillows
of domestic comfort, do not hear Satan sweeping in a hurricane over the
earth; let envy, ambition, blindness, and the pettifogging wisdom of small
times,--let all these artistically investigate the question of my official
capacity, or the nature of my public authority; let them scrupulously
discuss the immense problem whether I still possess, or possess no longer,
the title of my once-Governorship; let them ask for credentials, discuss
the limits of my commission, as representative of Hungary. I pity all such
frog and mouse fighting.

I claim no official capacity,--no public authority, no
representation;--boast of no commission, of no written and sealed
credentials. I am nothing but what my generous friend, the senator from
Michigan, has justly styled me, "a private and banished man." But, in that
capacity I have a nobler credential for my mission than all the clerks of
the world can write,--the credential that I am a "man;" the credential that
I am a "patriot;" the credential that I love with all sacrificing devotion
my oppressed fatherland and liberty; the credential that I hate tyrants,
and have sworn everlasting hostility to them; the credential that I feel
the strength to do good service to the cause of freedom; good service, as
perhaps few men can do, because I have the iron will, in this my breast, to
serve faithfully devotedly, indefatigably, that noble cause.

I have the credential that I trust to God in heaven, to justice on earth;
that I offend no laws, but cling to the protection of the laws. I have the
credential of my people's undeniable confidence and its unshaken faith; to
my devotion, to my manliness, to my honesty, and to my patriotism; which
faith I will honestly answer without ambition, without interest, as
faithfully as ever, but more skillfully, because schooled by adversities.
And I have the credential of the justice of the cause I plead, and of the
wonderful sympathy which, not my person, but that cause, has met, and
meets, in two hemispheres. These are my credentials, and nothing else. To
whom this is enough, he will help me, so far as the law permits and it is
his good pleasure. To whom these credentials are not sufficient, let him
look for a better accredited man.

                                  LXXIX.

                            THE IDES OF MARCH.

To-day is the fourth anniversary of the Revolution in Hungary.

Anniversaries of revolutions are almost always connected with the
recollections of some patriot's death,--fallen on that day, like the
Spartans at Thermopyl, martyrs of devotion to their fatherland.

Almost in every country there is some proud cemetery, or some modest
tombstone, adorned on such a day by a garland of evergreen,--the pious
offering of patriotic tenderness. I passed the last night in a sleepless
dream; and my soul wandered on the magnetic wings of the past, home to my
beloved, bleeding land. And I saw, in the dead of the night, dark veiled
shapes, with the paleness of eternal grief upon their brow--but terrible in
the fearless silence of that grief--gliding over the churchyards of Hungary
and kneeling down to the head of the graves, and depositing the pious
tribute of green and cypress upon them; and, after a short prayer, rising
with clenched fists and gnashing teeth, and then stealing away tearless!
and silent as they came,--stealing away, because the bloodbounds of my
country's murder lurks from every corner on that night, and on this day,
and leads to prison those who dare to show a pious remembrance to the
beloved. To-day, a smile on the lips of a Magyar is taken for a crime of
defiance to tyranny; and a tear in his eye is equivalent to a revolt. And
yet I have seen, with the eye of my home-wandering soul, thousands
performing the work of patriotic piety.

And I saw more. When the pious offerers stole away, I saw the honored dead
half risen from their tombs, looking to the offerings, and whispering
gloomily, "Still a cypress, and still no flower of joy! Is there still the
chill of winter and the gloom of night over thee, Fatherland? Are we not
yet revenged?" And the sky of the east reddened suddenly, and quivered
with bloody flames; and from the far, far west, a lightning flashed like a
star-spangled stripe, and within its light a young eagle mounted and soared
towards the quivering flames of the east; and as he drew near, upon his
approaching, the flames changed into a radiant morning sun, and a voice
from above was heard in answer to the question of the dead:

"Sleep yet a short while; mine is the revenge. I will make the stars of the
west the sun of the east; and when ye next awake, ye will find the flower
of joy upon your cold bed." And the dead took the twig of cypress, the sign
of resurrection, into their bony hands, and lay down.

Such was the dream of my waking soul. And I prayed; and such was my prayer:
"Father, if thou deemest me worthy, take the cup from my people, and give
it in their stead to me." And there was a whisper around me like the word
"Amen." Such was my dream, half foresight and half prophecy; but resolution
all. However, none of those dead whom I saw, fell on the 15th of March.
They were victims of the royal perjury which betrayed the 15th of March.
The anniversary of our Revolution has not the stain of a single drop of
blood.
                                                                 L. Kossuth.


                                   LXXX.

                            THE SAME CONTINUED.

We, the elect of the nation, sat on that morning busily but quietly, in the
legislative hall of old Presburg, and, without any flood of eloquence,
passed our laws in short words, that the people shall be free; the burdens
of feudalism shall cease; the peasant shall become free proprietor; that
equality of duties, equality of rights, shall be the fundamental law; and
civil, political, social, and religious liberty shall be the common
property of all the people, whatever tongue it may speak, or in whatever
church pray; and that a national ministry shall execute these laws, and
guard with its responsibility the chartered, ancient independence of our
Fatherland.

Two days before, Austria's brave people in Vienna had broken its yoke; and
summing up despots in the person of their tool, old Metternich, drove him
away; and the Hapsburgs, trembling in their imperial cavern of imperial
crimes, trembling, but treacherous, and lying and false, wrote with
yard-long letters, the words, "Constitution" and "Free Press" upon Vienna's
walls; and the people in joy cheered the inveterate liars, because the
people knows no falsehood.

On the 14th, I announced the tidings from Vienna to our Parliament at
Presburg. The announcement was swiftly carried by the great democrat, the
steam-engine, upon the billows of the Danube, down to old Buda and to young
Pesth, and while we, in the House of Representatives, passed the laws of
Justice and freedom, the people of Pesth rose in peaceful but majestic
manifestation, declaring that the people should be free. At this
manifestation all the barriers raised by violence against the laws, fell of
themselves. Not a drop of blood was shed. A man who was in prison because
he had dared to write a book, was carried home in triumph through the
streets. The people armed itself as a National Guard, the windows were
illuminated and bon fires burnt, and when these tidings returned back to
Presburg, blended with the cheers from Vienna, they warmed the chill of our
House of Lords, who readily agreed to the laws we pro posed. And there was
rejoicing throughout the land. For the first time for centuries the farmer
awoke with the pleasant feeling that his time was now his own--for the
first time went out to till his field with the consoling thought that the
ninth part of his harvest will not be taken by the landlord, nor the tenth
by the bishop. Both had fully resigned their feudal portion, and the air
was brightened by the lustre of freedom, and the very soil budding into a
blooming paradise. Such is the memory of the 15th of March, 1848.
                                                                L. Kossuth.


                                  LXXXI.

                            THE SAME CONTINUED.

One year later, there was blood, but also victory, over the land; the
people because free, fought like demi-gods. Seven great victories we had
gained in that month of March. On this very day, the remains of the first
ten thousand Russians fled over the frontiers of Transylvania, to tell at
home how heavily the blow falls from free Hungarian arms. It was in that
very month, that one evening I lay down in the bed, whence in the morning
Windischgrtz had risen; and from the battle-field I hastened to the
Congress at Debreczin, to tell the Representatives of the nation "It is
time to declare our national independence, because it is really achieved.
The Hapsburgs have not power to contradict it more." Nor had they.

But Russia, having experienced by the test of its first interference, that
there was no power on earth caring about the most flagrant violation of the
laws of nations, and seeing by the silence of Great Britain and of the
United States, that she may dare to violate those laws, our heroes had to
meet a fresh force of nearly two hundred thousand Russians. No power
cheered our bravely-won independence by diplomatic recognition; not even the
United States, though they always professed their principle to be that they
recognize every de facto government. We therefore had the right to expect a
speedy recognition from the United States. Our struggle rose to European
height, but we were left alone to fight for the world; and we had no arms
for the new battalions, gathering up in thousands with resolute hearts and
empty hands.

The recognition of our independence being withheld, commercial intercourse
for procuring arms abroad was impossible,--the gloomy feeling of entire
forsakedness spread over our tired ranks, and prepared the field for the
secret action of treachery; until the most sacrilegious violation of those
common laws of nations was achieved, and. the code of "nature and of
nature's God" was drowned in Hungary's blood. And I who on the 15th of
March, 1848, saw the principle of full civil and religious liberty
triumphing in my native land,--who, on the 15th of March, 1849, saw this
freedom consolidated by victories,--one year later, on the 15th of March,
1850, was on my sorrowful way to an Asiatic prison.
                                                                L. Kossuth.


                                  LXXXII.

                            THE SAME CONCLUDED.

But wonderful are the ways of Divine Providence. It was again in the month
of March, 1851, that the generous interposition of the United States cast
the first ray of hope into the dead night of my captivity. And on the 15th
of March, 1852, the fourth anniversary of our Revolution, guided by the
bounty of Providence, here I stand, in the very heart of your immense
Republic; no longer a captive, but free in the land of the free, not only
not desponding, but firm in confidence of the future, because raised in
spirits by a swelling sympathy in the home of the brave; still a poor, a
homeless exile, but not without some power to do good to my country and to
the cause of liberty, as my very persecution proves. Such is the history of
the 15th of March, in my humble life. Who can tell what will be the
character of the next 15th of March?

Nearly two thousand years ago. the first Csar found a Brutus on the Ides
or 15th of March. May be that the Ides of March, 1853, will see the last of
the Csars fall under the avenging might of a thousand-handed Brutus--the
name of whom is "the people"--inexorable at last after it has been so
long generous. The seat of the Csars was first in the south, then from the
south to the east, from the east to the west, and from the west to the
north. That is their last abode. None was lasting yet. Will the last, and
worst, prove luckier? No, it will not. While the seat of the Csars was
tossed around and thrown back to the icy north, a new world became the
cradle of a new humanity, where, in spite of the Csars the Genius of
Freedom raised (let us hope) an everlasting throne. The Csar of the north
and the Genius of Freedom have not place enough upon this earth for both of
them; one must yield and be crushed beneath the heels of the other. Which
is it? Which shall yield? America may decide.
                                                                L. Kossuth.


                                 LXXXIII.

                      THE MAYFLOWER AND THE PILGRIMS.

Methinks I see it now that one solitary, adventurous vessel, the Mayflower
of a forlorn hope, freighted with the prospects of a future state, and
bound across the unknown sea. I behold it pursuing, with a thousand
misgivings, the uncertain, the tedious voyage. Suns rise and set, and
weeks, and months pass, and winter surprises them on the deep, but brings
them not the sight of the wished-for shore. I see them now, scantily
supplied with provisions, crowded almost to suffocation in their ill-stored
prison, delayed by calms, pursuing a circuitous route; and now, driven in
fury before the raging tempest, in their scarcely seaworthy vessel. The
awful voice of the storm howls through the rigging. The laboring masts seem
straining from their base; the dismal sound of the pumps is heard; the ship
leaps, as it were, madly from billow to billow; the ocean breaks, and
settles with ingulfing floods over the floating deck, and beats with
deadening weight, against the staggered vessel. I see them, escaped from
these perils, pursuing their all but desperate undertaking, and landed at
last, after a five months' passage, on the ice-clad rocks of Plymouth, weak
and weary from the voyage, poorly armed, scantily provisioned, depending on
the charity of their shipmaster for a draught of beer on board, drinking
nothing but water on shore, without shelter, without means, surrounded by
hostile tribes.

Shut now the volume of history, and tell me, on any principle of human
probability, what shall be the fate of this handful of adventurers. Tell
me, man of military science, in how many months were they all swept off by
the thirty savage tribes, enumerated within the early limits of New
England? Tell me, politician, how long did this shadow of a colony, on
which your conventions and treaties had not smiled, languish on the distant
coast? Student of history, compare for me the baffled projects, the
deserted settlements, the abandoned adventures of other times, and find the
parallel of this. Was it the winter's storm, beating upon the houseless
heads of women and children? was it hard labor and spare meals? was it
disease? was it the tomahawk? was it the deep malady of blighted hope, a
ruined enterprise, and a broken heart, aching in its last moments at the
recollection of the loved and left, beyond the sea?--was it some, or all
of these united, that hurried this forsaken company to their melancholy
fate? And is it possible that neither of these causes, that not all
combined, were able to blast this bud of lope? Is it possible, that from a
beginning so feeble, so frail, so worthy, not so much of admiration as of
pity, there has gone forth a progress so steady, a growth so wonderful, a
reality so important, a promise yet to be fulfilled so glorious?
                                                                E. Everett.


                                  LXXXIV.

                         THE DISCOVERY OF AMERICA.

After years of fruitless and heart-sick solicitation, after offering, in
effect, to this monarchy and to that monarch, the gift of a hemisphere. the
great discoverer touches upon a partial success. He succeeds, not in
enlisting the sympathy of his countrymen at Genoa and Venice, for a brave
brother-sailor,--not in giving a new direction to the spirit of maritime
adventure, which had so long prevailed in Portugal,--not in stimulating
the commercial thrift of Henry the Seventh, or the pious ambition of the
Catholic king. His sorrowful perseverance touches the heart of a noble
princess, worthy the throne which she adorned. The New World, which was
just escaping the subtle kingcraft of Ferdinand, was saved to Spain by the
womanly compassion of Isabella.

It is truly melancholy, however, to contemplate the wretched equipment, for
which the most powerful princess of Christendom was ready to pledge her
jewels. Floating castles will soon be fitted out to convey the miserable
natives of Africa to the golden shores of America; towering galleons will
be despatched to bring home the guilty treasures to Spain. But three small
vessels, one of which was without a deck, and neither of them, probably,
exceeding the capacity of a pilot-boat, and even these impressed into the
public service, composed the expedition fitted out under royal patronage,
to realize that magnificent conceptions in which the creative mind of
Columbus had planted the germs of a new world.

No chapter of romance equals the interest of this expedition. The most
fascinating of the works of fiction which have issued from the modern press
have, to my taste, no attraction compared with the pages in which the first
voyage of Columbus is described by Robertson, and still more by our own
Irving and Prescott, the last two enjoying the advantage over the Scottish
historian of possessing the lately discovered Journals and letters of
Columbus himself. The departure from Palos, where, a few days before, he
had begged a morsel of bread and a cup of water for his wayworn child,--his
final farewell to the Old World at the Canaries,--his entrance upon the
trade winds, which then, for the first time, filled a European sail,--the
portentous variation of the needle, never before observed, the fearful
course westward and westward, day after day, and night after night, over
the unknown ocean, the mutinous and ill-appeased crew; at length, when hope
had turned to despair in every heart but one, the tokens of land,--the
cloud-banks on the western horizon,--the logs of drift-wood,--the fresh
shrub, floating with its leaves and berries,--the flocks of
land-birds,--the shoals of fish that inhabit shallow water, the
indescribable smell of the shore,--the mysterious presentiment that seems
ever to go before a great event, and finally, on that ever-memorable night
of the 12th of October, 1492, the moving light seen by the sleepless eye of
the great discoverer himself, from the deck of the Santa Maria, and in the
morning the real, undoubted land, swelling up from the bosom of the deep,
with its plains, and hills, and forests, and rocks, and streams, and
strange, new races of men;--these are incidents in which the authentic
history of the discovery of our Continent excels the specious wonders of
romance, as much as gold excels tinsel, or the sun in the heavens outshines
the flickering taper.
                                                                E. Everett.


                                  LXXXV.

                           ADAMS AND JEFFERSON.

We dismiss them not to the chambers of forgetfulness and death. What we
admired, and prized, and venerated in them, can never be forgotten. I had
almost said that they are now beginning to live; to live that life of
unimpaired influence, of unclouded fame, of unmingled happiness, for which
their talents and services were destined. Such men do not, cannot die. To
be cold and breathless; to feel not and speak not; this is not the end of
existence to the men who have breathed their spirits into the institutions
of their country, who have stamped their characters on the pillars of the
age, who have poured their hearts' blood into the channels of the public
prosperity. Tell me, ye who tread the sods of yon sacred height, is Warren
dead? Can you not still see him, not pale and prostrate, the blood of his
gallant heart pouring out of his ghastly wound, but moving resplendent over
the field of honors with the rose of heaven upon his cheek, and the fire of
liberty in his eye? Tell me, ye who make your pious pilgrimage to the
shades of Vernon, is Washington indeed shut up in that cold and narrow
house? That which made these men, and men like these, cannot die. The hand
that traced the charter of independence is, indeed, motionless; the
eloquent lips that sustained it are hushed; but the lofty spirits that
conceived, resolved, and maintained it, and which alone, to such men, "make
it life to live," these cannot expire;--

     "These shall resist the empire of decay,
     When time is o'er, and worlds have passed away;
     Cold in the dust the perished heart may lie,
     But that which warmed it once can never die."

                                                                E. Everett.


                                  LXXXVI.

                  THE INDIAN CHIEF TO THE WHITE SETTLER.

Think of the country for which the Indians fought! Who can blame them? As
Philip looked down from his seat on Mount Hope, that glorious eminence,
that

    ----" throne of royal state, which far
     Outshone the wealth of Ormus and of Ind,
     Or where the gorgeous East, with richest hand,
     Showers on her kings barbaric pearl and gold,"--

as he looked down, and beheld the lovely scene which spread beneath, at a
summer sunset, the distant hill-tops glittering as with fire, the slanting
beams streaming across the waters, the broad plains, the island groups, the
majestic forest,--could he be blamed, if his heart burned within him, as he
beheld it all passing, by no tardy process, from beneath his control, into
the hands of the stranger?

As the river chieftains--the lords of the waterfalls and the
mountains--ranged this lovely valley, can it be wondered at, if they beheld
with bitterness the forest disappearing beneath the settler's axe? the
fishing-place disturbed by his saw-mills? Can we not fancy the feelings
with which some strong-minded savage, the chief of the Pocomtuck Indians,
who should have ascended the summit of the Sugar-loaf Mountain, (rising as
it does before us, at this moment, in all its loveliness and grandeur,)--in
company with a friendly settler, contemplating the progress already made by
the white man, and marking the gigantic strides with which he was advancing
into the wilderness, should fold his arms and say "White man, there is
eternal war between me and thee! I quit not the land of my fathers, but
with my life. In those woods, where I bent my youthful bow; I will still
hunt the deer; over yonder waters I will still glide, unrestrained, in my
bark canoe. By those dashing waterfalls I will still lay up my winter's
store of food; on these fertile meadows I will still plant my corn.

"Stranger, the land is mine! I understand not these paper rights. I gave
not my consent, when, as thou sayest, these broad regions were purchased,
for a few baubles, of my fathers. They could sell what was theirs; they
could sell no more. How could my father sell that which the Great Spirit
sent me into the world to live upon? They knew not what they did.

"The stranger came, a timid suppliant,--few and feeble, and asked to lie
down on the red man's bear-skin, and warm himself at the red man's fire,
and have a little piece of land to raise corn for his women and children;
and now he is become strong, and mighty, and bold, and spreads out his
parchments over the whole, and says, 'It is mine.'

"Stranger! there is not room for us both. The Great Spirit has not made us
to live together. There is poison in the white man's cup; the white man's
dog barks at the red man's heels. If I should leave the land of my fathers,
whither shall I fly? Shall I go to the south, and dwell among the graves of
the Pequots? Shall I wander to the west, the fierce Mohawk,--the
man-eater,--is my foe. Shall I fly to the east, the great water is before
me. No, stranger; here I have lived, and here will I die; and if here thou
abidest, there is eternal war between me and thee.

"Thou hast taught me thy arts of destruction; for that alone I thank thee.
And now take heed to thy steps; the red man is thy foe. When thou goest
forth by day my bullet shall whistle past thee; when thou liest down by
night, my knife is at thy throat. The noonday sun shall not discover thy
enemy, and the darkness of midnight shall not protect thy rest. Thou shalt
plant in terror, and I will reap in blood; thou shalt sow the earth with
corn, and I will strew it with ashes; thou shalt go forth with the sickle,
and I will follow after with the scalping-knife; thou shalt build, and I
will burn,--till the white man or the Indian perish from the land."
                                                                E. Everett.


                                 LXXXVII.

                         THE MEN OF "SEVENTY-SIX."

If we look only at one part of the work of the men of '76 if we see them
poring over musty parchments by the midnight lamp, citing the year-books
against writs of assistance, disputing themselves hoarse, about this phrase
in the charter of Charles the First, and that section in a statute of
Edward the Third, we should be disposed to class them with the most bigoted
conservatives that ever threw a drag-chain around the limbs of a young and
ardent people. But, gracious heavens, look at them again, when the trumpet
sounds the hour of resistance; survey the other aspect of their work. See
these undaunted patriots, in their obscure caucus gatherings, in their
town-meetings, in their provincial assemblies, in their continental
congress, breathing defiance to the British Parliament and the British
throne. March with their raw militia to the conflict with the trained
veterans of the seven years' war. Witness them, a group of colonies,
extemporized into a confederacy, entering with a calm self-possession into
alliance with the oldest monarchy in Europe; and occupying, as they did, a
narrow belt of territory along the coast, plainly peopled, partially
cleared, hemmed in by the native savage, by the Alleghenies, by the Ohio,
and the Lakes; behold them dilating with the grandeur of the position,
radiant in the prospective glories of their career, casting abroad the
germs of future independent States, destined, at no distant day, not merely
to cover the face of the thirteen British colonies, but to spread over the
territories of France and Spain on this continent, over Florida and
Louisiana, over New Mexico and California, beyond the Mississippi, beyond
the Rocky Mountains,--to unite the Atlantic and the Pacific Oceans, the
arctic and the torrid zones, in one great network of confederate republican
government. Contemplate this, and you will acknowledge the men of
Seventy-six to have been the boldest men of progress that the world has
ever seen!

These are the men whom the Fourth of July invites us to respect and to
imitate;--the James Otises and the Warrens, the Franklins and the Adamses,
the Patrick Henrys and the Jeffersons, and him whom I may not name in the
plural number, brightest of the bright and purest of the pure,--Washington
himself. But let us be sure to imitate them, (or strive to do so) in all
their great principles, in both parts of their noble and comprehensive
policy. Let us reverence them as they reverenced their predecessors,--not
seeking to build up the future on the ruins of all that had gone before,
nor yet to bind down the living, breathing, burning present to the
mouldering relics of the dead past,--but deducing the rule of a bold and
safe progress, from the records of a wise and glorious experience.
                                                                E. Everett.


                                 LXXXVIII.

                            THE SAME CONCLUDED.

We live at an era as eventful, in my judgment, as that of '76 though in a
different way. We have no foreign yoke to throw off but in the discharge of
the duty devolved upon us by Providence, we have to carry the republican
independence which our fathers achieved, with all the organized
institutions of an enlightened community, institutions of religion, law,
education, charity, art, and all the thousand graces of the higher culture,
beyond the Missouri, beyond the Sierra Nevada; perhaps, in time around the
circuit of the Antilles; perhaps to the archipelagoes of the Central
Pacific. The pioneers are on the way. Who can tell how far and fast they
will travel? Who, that compares the North America of 1753, but a century
ago, and numbering but little over a million of souls of European origin;
or still more the North America of 1653, when there was certainly not a
fifth part of that number; who that compares this with the North America of
1853, its twenty-two millions of European origin, and its thirty-one
States, will venture to assign limits to our growth; will dare to compute
the time-table of our railway progress, or lift so much as a corner of the
curtain that hides the crowded events of the coming century?

This only we can plainly see; the Old World is rocking to its foundations.
From the Gulf of Finland to the Yellow Sea, everything is shaken. The
spirit of the age has gone forth to hold his great review, and the kings of
the earth are moved to meet him at his coming. The band which holds the
great powers of Europe together in one political league, is strained to its
utmost tension. The catastrophe may for a while be staved off; but to all
appearance they are hurrying to the verge of one of those conflicts which,
like those of Pharsalia and Actium, affect the condition of States for
twice ten centuries. The Turkish empire, encamped but for four centuries on
the frontiers of Europe, and the Chinese monarchy, contemporary with David
and Solomon, are alike crumbling.

While these events are passing in the Old World, a tide of emigration,
which has no parallel in history is pouring westward, across the Atlantic,
and eastward, across the Pacific to our shores. The real political vitality
of the world seems moving to the new hemisphere, whose condition and
fortune it devolves upon us and our children to mould and regulate.

It is a grand,--let me say, a solemn thought,--well calculated to still the
passions of the day and to elevate us above the paltry strife of parties.
It teaches us that we are called to the highest, and, I do verily believe,
the most momentous trust that ever devolved upon one generation of men. Let
us meet it with a corresponding temper and purpose,--with the wisdom of a
well-instructed experience, and with the foresight and preparation of a
glorious future; not on the narrow platforms of party policy and temporary
expediency, but in the broad and comprehensive spirit of Seventy-six.
                                                                E. Everett.


                                  LXXXIX.

                            OUR COMMON SCHOOLS.

Sir, it is our common schools which gives the keys of knowledge to the mass
of the people. Our common schools are important in the same way as the
common air, the common sunshine, the common rain,--invaluable for their
commonness. They are the corner-stone of that municipal organization which
is the characteristic feature of our social system; they are the fountain
of that widespread intelligence which, like a moral life pervades the
country.

From the humblest village-school there may go forth a teacher who, like
Newton, shall bind his temples with the stars of Orion's belt; with
Herschel, light up his cell with the beams of before-undiscovered planets;
with Franklin, grasp the lightning. Columbus, fortified with a few sound
geographical principles, was, on the deck of his crazy caravel, more truly
the monarch of Castile and Aragon, than Ferdinand and Isabella, enthroned
beneath the golden vaults of the conquered Alhambra. And Robinson, with the
simple training of a rural pastor in England, when he knelt on the shores
of Delft Haven, and sent his little flock upon their Gospel errantry beyond
the world of waters, exercised an influence over the destinies of the
civilized world, which will last to the end of time.

Sir, it is a solemn, a tender, and sacred duty that of education. What,
sir, feed a child's body, and let his soul hunger! pamper his limbs and
starve his faculties! Plant the earth, cover a thousand hills with your
droves of cattle, pursue the fish to their hiding-places in the sea, and
spread out your wheatfields across the plain, in order to supply the wants
of that body which will soon be as cold and as senseless as the poorest
clod, and let the pure spiritual essence within you, with all its glorious
capacities for improvement, languish and pine! What! build factories, turn
in rivers upon the water-wheels, enchain the imprisoned spirits of steam,
to weave a garment for the body, and let the soul remain unadorned and
naked! What! send out your vessels to the farthest ocean, and make battle
with the monsters of the deep, in order to obtain the means of lighting up
your dwellings and workshops, and prolonging the hours of labor for the
meat that perisheth, and permit that vital spark which God has kindled,
which He has intrusted to our care, to be fanned into a bright and heavenly
flame,--permit it, I say, to languish and go out!

What considerate man can enter a school and not reflect with awe, that it
is a seminary where immortal minds are training for eternity? What parent
but is, at times, weighed down with the thought, that there must be laid
the foundations of a building which will stand, when not merely temple and
palace, but the perpetual hills and adamantine rocks on which they rest,
have melted away!--that a light may there be kindled, which will shine, not
merely when every artificial beam is extinguished, but when the affrighted
sun has fled away from the heavens! I can add nothing, sir, to this
consideration. I will only say, in conclusion, Education,--when we feed
that lamp, we perform the highest social duty! If we quench it, I know not
where (humanly speaking), for time or for eternity,--"

     I know not where is that Promethean heat
     That can its light resume! "
                                                                 E Everett.


                                    XC.

                 WEBSTER'S GREATEST PARLIAMENTARY EFFORT.

The greatest parliamentary effort made by Mr. Webster, was his second
speech on Foot's resolution,--the question at issue being nothing less than
this; Is the Constitution of the United States a compact without a common
umpire between confederated sovereignties; or is it a government of the
people of the United States, sovereign within the sphere of its delegated
powers, although reserving a great mass of undelegated rights to
the separate State governments and the people? With those who embrace the
opinions which Mr. Webster combated in this speech, this is not the time
nor the place to engage in an argument; but those who believe that he
maintained the true principles of the Constitution, will probably agree,
that since that instrument was communicated to the Continental Congress,
seventy-two years ago this day by George Washington as President of the
Federal Convention, no greater service has been rendered to the country
than in the delivery of this speech.

Well do I recollect the occasion and the scene. It was truly what
Wellington called the battle of Waterloo, a conflict of giants. I passed an
hour and a half with Mr. Webster, at his request, the evening before this
great effort; and he went over to me, from a very concise brief, the main
topics of the speech which he had prepared for the following day. So calm
and unimpassioned was the memorandum, so entirely was he at ease himself
that I was tempted to think absurdly enough, that he was not sufficiently
aware of the magnitude of the occasion. But I soon perceived that his
calmness was the repose of conscious power. He was not only at ease, but
sportive and full of anecdote; and as he told the Senate playfully the next
day he slept soundly that night on the formidable assault of his gallant
and accomplished adversary. So the great Cond slept on the eve of the
battle of Rocroi; so Alexander slept on the eve of the battle of Arbela;
and so they awoke to deeds of immortal fame.

As I saw him in the evening, (if I may borrow an illustration from his
favorite amusement,) he was as unconcerned and as free of spirit, as some
here have often seen him, while floating in his fishing boat along a hazy
shore, gently rocking on the tranquil tide, dropping his line here and
there, with the varying fortune of the sport. The next morning he was like
some mighty Admiral, dark and terrible, casting the long shadow of his
frowning tiers far over the sea, that seemed to sink beneath him; his broad
pendant streaming at the main, the stars and the stripes at the fore, the
mizzen, and the peak; and bearing down like a tempest upon his antagonist,
with all his canvas strained to the wind and all his thunders roaring from
his broadsides.
                                                                E. Everett.


                                   XCI.

                      WHAT GOOD WILL THE MONUMENT DO.

I am met with the great objection, What good will the Monument do? I beg
leave, sir, to exercise my birthright as a Yankee, and answer this question
by asking two or three more, to which, I believe, it will be quite as
difficult to furnish a satisfactory reply. I am asked, What good will the
monument do? And I ask, What good does anything do? What is good? Does
anything do any good? The persons who suggest this objection, of course
think that there are some projects and undertakings that do good; and I
should therefore like to have the idea of good explained, and analyzed, and
run out to its elements.

When this is done, if I do not demonstrate, in about two minutes, that the
monument does the same kind of good that anything else does, I shall
consent that the huge blocks of granite already laid, should be reduced to
gravel, and carted off to fill up the mill-pond; for that, I suppose, is
one of the good things. Does a railroad or canal do good? Answer, yes. And
how? It facilitates intercourse, opens markets and increases the wealth of
the country. But what is this good for? Why, individuals prosper and get
rich. And what good does that do? Is mere wealth, as an ultimate end,--gold
and silver, without an inquiry as to their use,--are these a good?
Certainly not. I should insult this audience by attempting to prove that a
rich man, as such, is neither better nor happier than a poor one. But as
men grow rich, they live better. Is there any good in this, stopping here?
Is mere animal life--feeding, working, and sleeping like an ox--entitled to
be called good? Certainly not. But these improvements increase the
population. And what? good does that do? Where is the good in counting
twelve millions, instead of six, of mere feeding, working, sleeping
animals? There is, then, no good in the mere animal life, except that it is
the physical basis of that higher moral existence, which resides in the
soul, the heart, the mind, the conscience; in good principles, good
feelings, good actions (and the more disinterested, the more entitled to be
called good) which flow from them. Now, sir, I say that generous and
patriotic sentiments, sentiments which prepare us to serve our country, to
live for our country, to die for our country,--feelings like those which
carried Prescott, and Warren, and Putnam to the battle-field, are
good,--good, humanly speaking, of the highest order. It is good to have
them, good to encourage them, good to honor them, good to commemorate
them;--and whatever tends to animate and strengthen such feelings does as
much right down practical good as filling up low grounds and building
railroads. This is my demonstration.
                                                                E. Everett.


                                   XCII.

                 EMANCIPATION OF THE CATHOLICS OF IRELAND.

This paper, gentlemen, insists upon the necessity of emancipating the
Catholics of Ireland, and that is charged as a part of the libel. If they
had waited another year, if they had kept this prosecution impending for
another year, how much would remain for a jury to decide upon, I should be
at a loss to discover. It seems as if the progress of public information
was eating away the ground of the prosecution. Since the commencement of
the prosecution, this part of the libel has unluckily received the sanction
of the legislature. In that interval our Catholic brethren have obtained
that admission, which, it seems, it was a libel to propose. In what way to
account for this, I am really at a loss. Have any alarms been occasioned by
the emancipation of our Catholic brethren? has the bigoted malignity of any
individuals been crushed? Or, has the stability of the government, or has
that of the country been weakened? Or, are one million of subjects stronger
than three millions? Do you think that the benefit they receive should be
poisoned by the stings of vengeance? If you think so, you must say to them,
"You have demanded your emancipation and you have got it; but we abhor your
persons, we are outraged at your success; and we will stigmatize, by a
criminal prosecution, the adviser of that relief which you have obtained
from the voice of your country."

I ask you, gentlemen, do you think, as honest men, anxious for the public
tranquillity, conscious that there are wounds not yet completely cicatrized
that you ought to speak this language at this time, to men who are too much
disposed to think that in this very emancipation they have been saved from
their own Parliament by the humanity of their Sovereign? Or, do you wish
to prepare them for the revocation of these improvident concessions? Do you
think it wise or humane at this moment to insult them, by sticking up in a
pillory the man who dared to stand forth as their advocate? I put it to
your oaths; do you think that a blessing of that kind, that a victory
obtained by justice over bigotry and oppression, should have a stigma cast
upon it by an ignominious sentence upon men honest and bold enough to
propose that measure? to propose the redeeming of religion from the abuses
of the Church--the reclaiming of three millions of men from bondage, and
giving liberty to all who had a right to demand it--giving, I say, in the
so much censured words of this paper, "Universal Emancipation!"

I speak in the spirit of the British law, which makes liberty commensurate
with and inseparable from British soil--which proclaims even to the
stranger and the sojourner, the moment he sets his foot upon British earth,
that the ground on which he treads is holy, and consecrated by the genius
of Universal Emancipation. No matter in what language his doom may have
been pronounced; no matter what complexion incompatible with freedom an
Indian or an African sun may have burned upon him; no matter in what
disastrous battle his liberty may have been cloven down; no matter with
what solemnities he may have been devoted upon the altar of slavery;--the
first moment he touches the sacred soil of Britain, the altar and the god
sink together in the dust; his soul walks abroad in her own majesty; his
body swells beyond the measure of his chains that burst from around him and
he stands redeemed, regenerated, and disenthralled, by the irresistible
genius of Universal Emancipation.
                                                              J. P. Curran.


                                  XCIII.

                           THE PUBLIC INFORMER.

But the learned gentleman is further pleased to say, that the traverser has
charged the government with the encouragement of informers. This,
gentlemen, is another small fact that you are to deny at the hazard of your
souls, and upon the solemnity of your oaths. You are upon your oaths to say
to the sister country, that the government of Ireland uses no such
abominable instruments of destruction as informers. Let me ask you
honestly, what do you feel, when in my hearing, when in the face of this
audience, you are called upon to give a verdict that every man of us, and
every man of you, know by the testimony of your own eyes to be utterly and
absolutely false? I speak not now of the public proclamation of informers,
with a promise of secrecy and of extravagant reward; I speak not of the
fate of those horrid wretches who have been so often transferred from the
table to the dock, and from the dock to the pillory; I speak of what your
own eyes have seen day after day, during the course of this commission,
from the box where you are now sitting--the number of horrid miscreants who
avowed upon their oaths that they had come from the very seat of government
from the castle, where they had been worked upon by the fear of death and
the hopes of compensation to give evidence against their fellows. I speak
of the well-known fact that the mild and wholesome councils of this
government are holden over these catacombs of living death, where the
wretch that is buried a man, lies till his heart has time to fester and
dissolve, and is then dug up a witness.

Is this fancy, or is it fact? Have you not seen him, after his resurrection
from that tomb, after leaving been dug out of the region of death and
corruption, make his appearance upon the table, the living image of life
and of death, and the supreme arbiter of both? Have you not marked when he
entered, how the stormy wave of the multitude retired at his approach? Have
you not marked how the human heart bowed to the supremacy of his power, in
the undissembled homage of deferential horror? How his glance, like the
lightning of heaven, seemed to rive the body of the accused, and mark it
for the grave, while his voice warned the devoted wretch of woe and
death--a death which no innocence can escape, no art elude, no force
resist, no antidote prevent. There was an antidote a juror's oath----but
even that adamantine chain that bound the integrity of man to the throne of
eternal justice, is solved and melted in the breath that issues from the
informer's mouth. Conscience swings from her mooring, and the appalled and
affrighted juror consults his own safety in the surrender of the victim.
                                                              J. P. Curran.


                                   XCIV.

                  RED JACKET'S SPEECH TO THE MISSIONARY.

Brother, listen to what we say. There was a time when our forefathers owned
this great island. Their seats extended from the rising to the setting sun.
The Great Spirit had made it for the use of Indians. He had created the
buffalo, file deer, and other animals for food. He had made the bear and
the beaver. Their skins served us for clothing. He had scattered them over
the country, and taught us how to take them. He had caused the earth to
produce corn for bread. All this He had done for his red children, because
He loved them. If we had some disputes about our hunting-ground, they were
generally settled without the shedding of much blood. But an evil day came
upon us. Your forefathers came across the great water, and landed on this
island. Their numbers were small. They found friends and not enemies. They
told us they had fled from their own country for fear of wicked men, and
asked for a small seat. We took pity on them; granted their request; and
they sat down amongst us. We gave them corn and meat; they gave us poison
in return.

The white people, brother, had now found our country. Tidings were carried
back, and more came amongst us. Yet we did not fear them. We took them to
be friends. They called us brothers. We believed them and gave them a
larger seat. At length their numbers had greatly increased. They wanted
more land; they wanted our country. Our eyes were opened, and our minds
became uneasy. Wars took place. Indians were hired to fight against
Indians, and many of our people were destroyed. They also brought strong
liquor amongst us. It was strong and powerful and has slain thousands.

Brother, our seats were once large, and yours were small. You have now
become a great people, and we have scarcely a place left to spread our
blankets. You have got our country but are not satisfied; you want to force
your religion upon us. You say that you are sent to instruct us how to
worship the Great Spirit agreeably to his mind; and, if we do not take hold
of the religion which you white people teach, we shall be unhappy
hereafter. We are told that you have been preaching to the white people in
this place. These people are our neighbors. We are acquainted with them. We
will wait a little while, and see what effect your preaching has upon them.
If we find it does them good, makes them honest, and less disposed to cheat
Indians, we will then consider again of what you have said. Brother, you
have now heard our answer to your talk, and this is all we have to say at
present.
                                                                      Cram.


                                   XCV.

                           PARTITION OF POLAND.

Now, sir, what was the conduct of your own allies to Poland? Is there a
single atrocity of the French, in Italy, in Switzerland, in Egypt, if you
please, more unprincipled and inhuman than that of Russia, Austria, and
Prussia, in Poland? What has there been in the conduct of the French to
foreign powers; what in the violation of solemn treaties; what in the
plunder, devastation, and dismemberment of unoffending countries; what in
the horrors and murders perpetrated upon the subdued victims of their rage
in any district which they have overrun, worse than the conduct of those
three great powers in the miserable, devoted, and trampled-on kingdom of
Poland, and who have been, or are, our allies in this war for religion and
social order, and the rights of nations? "Oh! but you regretted the
partition of Poland! " Yes, regretted! You regretted the violence, and that
is all you did. You united yourself with the actors; you, in fact, by your
acquiescence, confirmed the atrocity. But they are your allies; and though
they overran and divided Poland, there was nothing, perhaps, in the manner
of doing it which stamped it with peculiar infamy and disgrace. The hero of
Poland [Swarrow], perhaps, was merciful and mild! He was "as much superior
to Bonaparte in bravery, and in the discipline which he maintained, as he
was superior in virtue and humanity! " He was animated by the purest
principles of Christianity, and was restrained in his career by the
benevolent precepts which it inculcates! Was he? Let unfortunate Warsaw,
and the miserable inhabitant's of the suburb of Praga in particular, tell!
What do we understand to have been the conduct of this magnanimous hero,
with whom, it seems, Bonaparte is not to be compared? He entered the suburb
of Praga, the most populous suburb of Warsaw; and there he let his soldiery
loose on the miserable, unarmed, and unresisting people. Men, women, and
children, nay, infants at the breast, were doomed to one indiscriminate
massacre. Thousands of them were inhumanly, wantonly butchered! And for
what? Because they had dared to join in a wish to meliorate their own
condition as a people, and to improve their Constitution, which had been
confessed by their own Sovereign to be in want of amendment. And such is
the hero upon whom the cause of religion and social order is to repose! And
such is the man whom we praise for his discipline and his virtue, and whom
we hold out as our boast and our dependence; while the conduct of Bonaparte
unfits him to be even treated with as an enemy?
                                                                 C. J. Fox.


                                   XCVI.

                            NATIONAL DISGRACE.

Sir, we may look in vain to the events of former times for a disgrace
parallel to what we have suffered. Louis the Fourteenth, a monarch often
named in our debates, and whose reign exhibits more than any other the
extremes of prosperous and of adverse fortune, never, in the midst of his
most humiliating distresses, stooped to so despicable a sacrifice of all
that can be dear to man. The war of the succession, unjustly begun by him,
had reduced his power, had swallowed up his armies and his navies, had
desolated his provinces, had drained his treasures, and deluged the earth
with the blood of the best and most faithful his subjects. Exhausted by his
various calamities, he offered his enemies at one time to relinquish all
the objects for which he had begun the war. That proud monarch sued for
peace, and was content to receive it from our moderation. But when it was
made a condition of that peace, that he should turn his arms against his
grandson, and compel him by force to relinquish the throne of
Spain,--humbled, exhausted, conquered as he was, misfortune had not yet
bowed his spirit to conditions so hard as these.

We know the event. He persisted still in the war, until the folly and
wickedness of Queen Anne's ministers enabled him to conclude the peace of
Utrecht, on terms considerably less disadvantageous even than those he had
himself proposed. And shall we, sir, the pride of our age, the terror of
Europe, submit to this humiliating sacrifice of our honor? Have we suffered
a defeat at Blenheim? Shall we, with our increasing prosperity, our widely
diffused capital, our navy, the just subject of our common exultation,
ever-flowing coffers, that enable us to give back to the people what, in
the hour of calamity, we were compelled to take from them; flushed with a
recent triumph over Spain, and yet more than all, while our old rival and
enemy was incapable of disturbing us, shall it be for us to yield to what
France disdained in the hour of her sharpest distress, and exhibit
ourselves to the world, the sole example in its annals of such an abject
and pitiful degradation?
                                                                 C. J. Fox.


                                  XCVII.

                            A POLITICAL PAUSE.

Where, then, sir, is this war, which is prolific of all these horrors, to
be carried? Where is it to stop? Not till we have established the house of
Bourbon! Or, at least, not until we have had due "experience" of
Bonaparte's intentions! And all this without an intelligible motive. All
this because you may gain a better peace a year or two hence! So that we
are called upon to go on merely as a speculation. We must keep Bonaparte
for some time longer at war, as a state of probation! Gracious God, sir! is
war a state of probation? Is peace a rash system? Is it dangerous for
nations to live in amity with each other? Are your vigilance, your police
your common powers of observation, to be extinguished by putting an end to
the horrors of war? Cannot this state of probation be as well undergone
without adding to the catalogue of human sufferings?

"But we must pause!" says the honorable gentleman. What! must the bowels
of Great Britain be torn out her best blood be spilled--her treasures
wasted--that you may make an experiment? Put yourselves oh! that you would
put yourselves on the field of battle, and learn to judge of the sort of
horrors that you excite! In former wars a man might, at least, have some
feeling, some interest, that served to balance, in his mind, the
impressions which a scene of carnage and of death must inflict.

If a man had been present at the battle of Blenheim, for instance, and had
inquired the motive of the battle, there was not a soldier engaged who
could not have satisfied his curiosity, and even, perhaps, allayed his
feelings. They were fighting, they knew, to repress the uncontrolled
ambition of the Grand Monarch.

But if a man were present now at the field of slaughter, and were to
inquire for what they were fighting--"Fighting!" would be the answer;
"they aren't fighting; they are pausing." "Why is that man expiring? " Why
is that other writhing with agony? What means this implacable fury? " The
answer must be, "You are quite wrong, sir, you deceive yourself--they are
not fighting, do not disturb them they are merely pausing! This man is not
expiring with agony--that man is not dead he is only pausing! Lord help
you, sir! they are not angry with one another; they have now no cause of
quarrel; but their country thinks that there should be a pause. All that
you see, sir, is nothing like fighting--there is no harm, nor cruelty, nor
bloodshed in it, whatever: it is nothing more than a political pause! It
is merely to try an experiment--to see whether Bonaparte will not, behave
himself better than heretofore; and in the mean time we have agreed to
pause in pure friendship!"

And is this the way, sir, that you are to show yourselves the advocates of
order? You take up a system calculated to uncivilize the world--to destroy
order,--to trample on religion,--to stifle in the heart, not merely the
generosity of a noble sentiment, but the affections of social nature; and
in the prosecution of this systems you spread terror and devastation all
around you.
                                                                  C. J. Fox


                                  XCVIII.

                 WASHINGTON'S SWORD AND FRANKLIN'S STAFF.

The Sword of Washington! The Staff of Franklin! O, sir, what associations
are linked in adamant with these names! Washington, whose sword was never
drawn but in the cause of his country, and never sheathed when wielded in
his country's cause! Franklin, the philosopher of the thunder-bolt, the
printing-press, and the ploughshare! What names are these in the scanty
catalogue of the benefactors of human kind! Washington and Franklin! What
other two men whose lives belong to the eighteenth century of Christendom,
have left a deeper impression of themselves upon the age in which they
lived, and upon all after-time? Washington, the warrior and the
legislator! In war, contending, by the wager of battle, for the
Independence of his country, and for the freedom of the human race,--ever
manifesting, amidst its horrors, by precept and by example, his reverence
for the laws of peace, and for the tenderest sympathies of humanity; in
peace, soothing the ferocious spirit of discord, among his own countrymen,
into harmony and union, and giving to that very sword, now presented to his
country, a charm more potent than that attributed, in ancient times, to the
lyre of Orpheus.

Franklin! The mechanic of his own fortune; teaching, in early youth, under
the shackles of indigence, the way to wealth, and, in the shade of
obscurity, the path to greatness; in the maturity of manhood, disarming the
thunder of its terrors, the lightning of its fatal blast; and wresting from
the tyrant's hand the still more afflictive sceptre of oppression: while
descending the vale of years, traversing the Atlantic Ocean, braving, in
the dead of winter, the battle and the breeze, bearing in his hand the
Charter of Independence, which he had contributed to form, and tendering,
from the self-created nation to the mightiest monarchs of Europe, the
olive-branch of peace, the mercurial wand of commerce, and the amulet of
protection and safety to the man of peace, on the pathless ocean, from the
inexorable cruelty and merciless rapacity of war.

And, finally, in the last stage of life, with fourscore winters upon his
head, under the torture of an incurable disease, returning to his native
land, closing his days as the chief magistrate of his adopted commonwealth,
after contributing by his counsels under the Presidency of Washington, and
recording his name under the sanction of devout prayer invoked by him to
God,--to that Constitution under the authority of which we are assembled,
as the Representatives of the North American People, to receive, in the
name of them and for them, these venerable relics of the wise, the valiant,
and the good founders of our great confederated Republic, these sacred
symbols of our golden age. May they be deposited among the archives of our
Government! And may every American, who shall hereafter behold them,
ejaculate a mingled offering of praise to that Supreme Ruler of the
Universe, by whose tender mercies our Union has been hitherto preserved,
through all the vicissitudes and revolutions of this turbulent world; and
of prayer for the continuance of these blessings, by the dispensations of
Providence to our beloved country, from age to age, till time shall be no
more!
                                                               J. Q. Adams.


                                   XCIX.

                      THE RIGHT OF PETITION BY WOMEN.

The gentleman says that women have no right to petition on political
subjects; that it is discreditable, not only to their section of the
country, but also to the national character; that these females could have
a sufficient field for the exercise of their influence in the discharge of
their duties to their fathers, their husbands, or their children--cheering
the domestic circle, and shedding over it the mild radiance of the social
virtues, instead of rushing into the fierce struggles of political life. I
admit, sir, that it is their duty to attend to these things. I subscribe
fully, to the elegant compliment, passed by him upon those members of the
female sex who devote their time to these duties. But I say that the
correct principle is, that women are not only justified, but exhibit the
most exalted virtue, when they do depart from the domestic circle, and
enter on the concerns of their country, of humanity, and of their God. The
mere departure of woman from the duties of the domestic circle, far from
being a reproach to her, is a virtue of the highest order, when it is done
from purity of motive, by appropriate means, and towards a virtuous
purpose. That is the principle I maintain, and which the gentleman has to
refute, if he applies the position he has taken to the mothers, the
sisters, and the daughters of the men of my district who voted to send me
here. The motive, the means, and the purpose of their petition will bear
his scrutiny.

Why, sir, what does the gentleman understand by "political subjects?"
Everything in which this House has an agency-everything which relates to
peace and war, or to any of the great interests of society. Are women to
have no opinions or actions on subjects relating to the general welfare?
Where did the gentleman get this principle? Did he find it in sacred
history--in the language of Miriam the Prophetess, in one of the noblest
and most sublime songs of triumph that ever met the human eye or ear? Did
the gentleman never hear of the deed of Jael, who slew the dreaded enemy of
her country? Has he forgotten Esther, who, by her petition saved her people
and her country? Sir, I might go through the whole sacred history, and
find innumerable examples of women, who not only took an active part in the
politics of their times, but who are held up with honor to posterity for
doing so.

To go from sacred history to profane, does the gentleman there find it
"discreditable" for women to take any interest or any part in political
affairs? Has he forgotten the Spartan mother, who said to her son, when
going out to battle, "My son, come back to me with thy shield, or upon thy
shield?" Does he not remember Cornelia, the mother of the Gracchi, who
declared that her children were her jewels? And why? Because they were the
champions of freedom. Has he not read of Arria, who, under imperial
despotism, when her husband was condemned to die by a tyrant, plunged the
sword into her own bosom, and, handing it to her husband, said, "Take it,
Ptus, it does not hurt," and expired?

To come to a later period, what names are more illustrious than that of
Elizabeth, the great British queen, and that of Isabella of Castile, the
patroness of Columbus, the virtual discoverer of this hemisphere, for
without her that discovery would not have been made? Did they bring
"discredit" on their sex by mingling in politics? And what were the women
of the United States in the struggle of the Revolution? Were they devoted
exclusively to the duties and enjoyments of the fireside? When the soldiers
were destitute of clothing, or sick, or in prison, from whence did relief
come? From the hearts where patriotism erects her favorite shrine, and from
the hand which is seldom withdrawn when the soldier is in need. The voice
of our history speaks trumpet-tongued of the daring and intrepid spirit of
patriotism burning in the bosoms of the ladies of that day "Politics," sir,
"rushing into the vortex of politics!" They gloried in being called rebel
ladies, refusing to attend balls and entertainments, but crowding to the
hospitals and prison-ships! And, sir, is that spirit to be charged here, in
this hall where we are sitting, as being "discreditable" to our country's
name? So far from regarding such conduct as a national reproach, I approve
of it, and glory in it.
                                                               J. Q. Adams.

                                    C.

                           VALUE OF POPULARITY.

MY Lords, I come now to speak upon what, indeed, I would have gladly
avoided, had I not been particularly pointed at for the part I have taken
in this bill. It has been said by a noble lord on my left hand, that I,
likewise, am running the race of popularity. If the noble lord means by
popularity, that applause bestowed by after-ages on good and virtuous
actions, I have long been struggling in that race; to what purpose,
all-trying time can alone determine: but, if the noble lord means that
mushroom popularity which is raised without merit, and lost without crime,
he is much mistaken in his opinion.

I defy the noble lord to point out a single action of my life, in which the
popularity of the times ever had the smallest influence on my
determinations. I have a more permanent and steady rule for my conduct, the
dictates of my own breast. Those that have foregone that pleasing adviser,
and given up their mind to be the slave of every popular impulse, I
sincerely pity: I pity them still more, if their vanity leads them to
mistake the shouts of the mob for the trumpet of fame. Experience might
inform them, that many who have been saluted with the huzzahs of a crowd
one day, have received its execrations the next; and many who by the
popularity of their times, have been held up as spotless patriots, have,
nevertheless, appeared upon the historian's page,--when truth has triumphed
over delusion,--the assassins of liberty.

True liberty, in my opinion, can only exist when justice is equally
administered to all,--to the king and to the beggar. Where is the justice,
then, or where is the law, that protects a member of Parliament more than
any other man from the punishment due to his crimes? The laws of this
country allow no place, nor employment to be a sanctuary for crimes; and
where I have the honor to sit as judge, neither royal favor, nor popular
applause shall ever protect the guilty.
                                                            Lord Mansfield.


                                    CI.

                            SCORN TO BE SLAVES.

The voice of your father's blood cries to you from the ground, "My sons,
scorn to be slaves! In vain we met the frowns of tyrants; in vain we
crossed the boisterous ocean, found a new world, and prepared it for the
happy residence of liberty; in vain we toiled; in vain we fought; we bled
in vain, if you, our offspring, want valor to repel the assaults of her
invaders!" Stain not the glory of your worthy ancestors; but, like them,
resolve never to part with your birthright. Be wise in your deliberations,
and determined in your exertions for the preservation of your liberty.

Follow not the dictates of passion, but enlist yourselves under the sacred
banner of reason; use every method in your power to secure your rights; at
least, prevent the curses of posterity from being heaped upon your
memories. If you, with united zeal and fortitude, oppose the torrent of
oppression; if you feel the true fire of patriotism burning in your
breasts; if you, from your souls, despise the most gaudy dress which
slavery can wear; if you really prefer the lonely cottage, while blessed
with liberty, to gilded palaces, surrounded with the ensigns of slavery you
may have the fullest assurance that tyranny with her whole accursed train,
will hide her hideous head in confusion, shame, and despair.

If you perform your part, you must have the strongest confidence, that the
same Almighty Being, who protected your pious, and venerable forefathers,
who enabled them to turn a barren wilderness into a fruitful field, who so
often made bare His arm for their salvation, will still be mindful of their
offspring.

May that Almighty Being graciously preside in all our councils. May He
direct us to such measures as He himself shall approve, and be pleased to
bless. May we be ever favored of God. May our land be a land of liberty,
the seat of virtue, the asylum of the oppressed, "a name and a praise in
the whole earth," until the last shock of time shall bury the empires of
the world in undistinguished ruin.
                                                                 J. Warren.


                                   CII.

                            LOSS OF THE ARCTIC.

It was autumn. Hundreds had wended their way from pilgrimages; from Rome
and its treasures of dead art, and its glory of living nature; from the
sides of the Switzer's mountains, and from the capitals of various nations,
all of them saying in their hearts, we will wait for the September gales to
have done with their equinoctial fury, and then we will embark; we will
slide across the appeased ocean, and in the gorgeous month of October, we
will greet our longed-for native land, and our heart-loved homes.

And so the throng streamed along from Berlin, from Paris, from the Orient,
converging upon London, still hastening toward the welcome ship, and
narrowing every day the circle of engagements and preparations. They
crowded aboard. Never had the Arctic borne such a host of passengers, nor
passengers so nearly related to so many of us. The hour was come. The
signal-ball fell at Greenwich. It was noon also at Liverpool. The anchors
were weighed; the great hull swayed to the current; the national colors
streamed abroad, as if themselves instinct with life and national sympathy.
The bell strikes; the wheels revolve; the signal-gun beats its echoes, in
upon every structure along the shore, and the Arctic glides joyfully forth
from the jersey, and turns her prow to the winding channel, and begins her
homeward run. The pilot stood at the wheel, and men saw him. Death sat upon
the prow, and no eye beheld him. Whoever stood at the wheel in all the
voyage, Death was the pilot that steered the craft, and none knew it. He
neither revealed his presence nor whispered his errand.

And so hope was effulgent, and little gayety disported itself, and joy was
with every guest. Amid all the inconveniences of the voyage, there was
still that which hushed every murmur,--"Home is not far away." And every
morning it was still one night nearer home! Eight days had passed. They
beheld that distant bank of mist that forever haunts the vast shallows of
Newfoundland. Boldly they made it; and plunging in, its pliant wreaths
wrapped them about. They shall never emerge. The last sunlight has flashed
from that deck. The last voyage is done to ship and passengers. At noon
there came noiselessly stealing from the north that fated instrument of
destruction. In that mysterious shroud, that vast atmosphere of mist, both
steamers were holding their way with rushing prow and roaring wheels, but
invisible.

At a league's distance, unconscious, and at nearer approach, unwarned;
within hail, and bearing right towards each other, unseen, unfelt, till in
a moment more, emerging from the gray mists, the ill-omened Vesta dealt her
deadly stroke to the Arctic. The death-blow was scarcely felt along the
mighty hull. She neither reeled nor shivered. Neither commander nor
officers seemed that they had suffered harm. Prompt upon humanity the brave
Luce (let his name be ever spoken with admiration and respect) ordered away
his boat with the first officer to inquire if the stranger had suffered
harm. As Gourley went over the ship's side, oh, that some good angel had
called to the brave commander in the words of Paul on a like occasion,
"Except these abide in the ship, ye cannot be saved."

They departed, and with them the hope of the ship, for now the waters
gaining upon the hold and rising upon the fires, revealed the mortal blow.
Oh, had now that stern, brave mate, Gourley, been on deck, whom the sailors
were wont to mind--had he stood to execute sufficiently the commander's
will--we may believe that we should not have had to blush for the cowardice
and recreancy of the crew, nor weep for the untimely dead. But, apparently,
each subordinate officer lost all presence of mind, then courage, and so
honor. In a wild scramble, that ignoble mob of firemen, engineers, waiters,
and crew, rushed for the boats, and abandoned the helpless women, children,
and men to the mercy of the deep! Four hours there were from the
catastrophe of collision to the catastrophe of sinking!

Oh, what a burial was here! Not as when one is borne from his home, among
weeping throngs, and gently carried to the green fields, and laid
peacefully beneath the turf and the flowers. No priest stood to pronounce a
burial-service. It was an ocean grave. The mists alone shrouded the
burial-place. No spade prepared the grave, nor sexton filled up the
hollowed earth. Down, down they sank, and the quick returning waters
smoothed out every ripple, and left the sea as if it had not been.
                                                             H. W. Beecher.


                                   CIII.

                     THE GLORY AND GRANDEUR OF PEACE.

Whatever may be the judgment of poets, of moralist, of satirists, or even
of soldiers, it is certain that the glory of arms still exercises no mean
influence over the minds of men. The art of war, which has been happily
termed by a French divine, the baleful art by which men learn to
exterminate one another, is yet held even among Christians, to be an
honorable pursuit; and the animal courage, which it stimulates and
develops, is prized as a transcendent virtue. It will be for another age,
and a higher civilization, to appreciate the more exalted character of the
art of benevolence, the art of extending happiness and all good influences,
by word or deed, to the largest number of mankind, which, in blessed
contrast with the misery, the degradation, the wickedness of war, shall
shine resplendent, the true grandeur of peace. All then will be willing to
join with the early poet in saying, at least,

     "Through louder fame attend the martial rage,
     'T is greater glory to reform the age."

Then shall the soul thrill with a nobler heroism than that of battle.
Peaceful industry, with untold multitudes of cheerful and beneficent
laborers, shall be its gladsome token. Literature, full of sympathy and
comfort for the heart of man, shall appear in garments of purer glory than
she has yet assumed. Science shall extend the bounds of knowledge and power
adding unimaginable strength to the hands of man, opening innumerable
resources in the earth, and revealing new secrets and harmonies in the
skies. Art, elevated and refined, shall lavish fresh streams of beauty and
grace. Charity, in streams of milk and honey, shall diffuse itself among
all the habitations of the world.

Does any one ask for the signs of this approaching era? The increasing
beneficence and intelligence of our own day, the broad-spread sympathy with
human suffering, the widening thoughts of men, the longings of the heart
for a higher condition on earth, the unfulfilled promises of Christian
progress, are the auspicious auguries of this happy future. As early
voyagers over untried realms of waste, we have already observed the signs
of land. The green twig and fresh red berry have floated by our bark; the
odors of the shore fan our faces; nay, we may seem to descry the distant
gleam of light, and hear from the more earnest observers, as Columbus
heard, after midnight, from the mast-head of the Pinta, the joyful cry of
Land! Land! and lo! a new world broke upon his early morning gaze.
                                                                 C. Sumner.

                                   CIV.

                      ANCIENT AND MODERN PRODUCTIONS.

The classics possess a peculiar charm, from the circumstance that they have
been the models, I might almost say the masters, of composition and
thought, in all ages. In the contemplation of these august teachers of
mankind, we are filled with conflicting emotions. They are the early voice
of the world, better remembered and more cherished still than all the
intermediate words that have been uttered, as the lessons of childhood
still haunt us when the impressions of later years have been effaced from
the mind. But they show with most unwelcome frequency the tokens of the
world's childhood, before passion had yielded to the sway of reason and the
affections. They want the highest charm of purity, of righteousness, of
elevated sentiments, of love to God and man. It is not in the frigid
philosophy of the porch and academy that we are to seek these; not in the
marvelous teachings of Socrates, as they come mended by the mellifluous
words of Plato; not in the resounding line of Homer, on whose inspiring
tale of blood Alexander pillowed his head; not in the animated strain of
Pindar, where virtue is pictured in the successful strife of an athlete at
the Isthmian games; not in the torrent of Demosthenes, dark with self-love
and the spirit of vengeance; not in the fitful philosophy and intemperate
eloquence of Tully; not in the genial libertinism of Horace, or the
stately atheism of Lucretius. No! these must not be our masters; in none of
these are we to seek the way of life. For eighteen hundred years the spirit
of these writers has been engaged in weaponless contest with the Sermon
on the Mount, and those two sublime commandments on which hang all the law
and the prophets. The strife is still pending. Heathenism, which has
possessed itself of such siren forms, is not yet exorcised. It still tempts
the young, controls the affairs of active life, and haunts the meditations
of age.

Our own productions, though they may yield to those of the ancients in the
arrangement of ideas, in method, in beauty of form, and in freshness of
illustration, are immeasurably superior in the truth, delicacy, all
elevation of their sentiments,--above all, in the benign recollection of
that great Christian revelation, the brotherhood of man. How vain are
eloquence and poetry compared with this heaven-descended truth! Put in one
scale that simple utterance, and in the other the lore of antiquity, with
its accumulating glosses and commentaries, and the last will be light and
trivial in the balance. Greek poetry has been likened to the song of the
nightingale as she sits in the rich, symmetrical crown of the palm-tree,
trilling her thick-warbled notes; but even this is less sweet and tender
than the music of the human heart.
                                                                 C. Sumner.


                                    CV.

                     THE ABOLITION OF THE SLAVE TRADE.

Why ought the slave trade to be abolished? Because it is incurable
injustice! How much stronger, then, is the argument for immediate than
gradual abolition! By allowing it to continue even for one hour, do not my
right honorable friends weaken--do they not desert their own arguments of
its injustice? If on the ground of injustice it ought to be abolished at
last, why ought it not now? Why is injustice to be suffered to remain for a
single hour?

I know of no evil that ever has existed, nor can imagine any evil to exist,
worse than the tearing of eighty thousands persons annually from their
native land, by a combination of the most civilized nations in the most
enlightened quarter of the globe; but more especially by that nation which
calls herself the most free and the most happy of them all. Even if these
miserable beings were proved guilty of every crime before you take them off
of which however not a single proof is adduced ought we to take upon
ourselves the office of executioners? And even if we condescend so far,
still can we be justified in taking them, unless we have clear proof that
they are criminals?

I have shown how great is the enormity of this evil, even on the
supposition that we take only convicts and prisoners of war. But take the
subject in the other way; take it on the grounds stated by the right
honorable gentleman over the way, and how does it stand? Think of eighty
thousand persons carried away out of their country, by we know not what
means, for crimes imputed; for light or inconsiderable faults; for debt,
perhaps; for the crime of witchcraft; or a thousand other weak and
scandalous pretexts, besides all the fraud and kidnapping, the villainies
and perfidy, by which the slave trade is supplied. Reflect on these eighty
thousand persons thus annually taken off! There is something in the horror
of it, that surpasses all the bounds of imagination. Admitting that there
exists in Africa something like to courts of justice; yet what an office of
humiliation and meanness is it in us, to take upon ourselves to carry into
execution the partial, the cruel, iniquitous sentences of such courts, as
if we also were strangers to all religion, and to the first principles of
justice.

But that country, it is said, has been in some degree civilized, and
civilized by us. It is said they have gained some knowledge of the
principles of justice. What sir, have they gained the principles of justice
from us? Is their civilization brought about by us! Yes, we give them
enough of our intercourse to convey to them the means, and to initiate them
in the study of mutual destruction. We give them just enough of the forms
of justice to enable them to add the pretext of legal trials to their other
modes of perpetuating the most atrocious iniquity. We give them just enough
of European improvements, to enable them the more effectually to turn
Africa into a ravaged wilderness. But I refrain from attempting to
enumerate half the dreadful consequences of this system. Do you think
nothing of the ruin and the miseries in which so many other individuals,
still remaining in Africa, are involved in consequence of carrying off so
many myriads of people? Do you think nothing of their families which are
left behind; of the connections which are broken; of the friendships,
attachments, and relationships which are burst asunder? Do you think
nothing of the miseries in consequence, that are felt from generation to
generation; of the privation of that happiness which might be communicated
to them by the introduction of civilization, and of mental and moral
improvement? A happiness which you withhold from them so long as you permit
the slave trade to continue.

How shall we hope to obtain, if it be possible, forgiveness from Heaven for
these enormous evils we have committed, if we refuse to make use of those
means which the mercy of Providence hath still reserved for us, for wiping
away the guilt and shame with which we are now covered. If we refuse even
this degree of compensation; if, knowing the miseries we have caused, we
refuse even now to put a stop to them, how greatly aggravated will be the
guilt of Great Britain! and what a blot will these transactions forever be
in the history of this country! Shall we, then, delay to repair these
injuries, and to begin rendering justice to Africa? Shall we not count the
days and hours that are suffered to intervene, and to delay the
accomplishment of such a work? Reflect what an immense object is before
you; what an object for a nation to have in view, and to have a prospect,
under the favor of Providence, of being now permitted to attain! I think
the House will agree with me in cherishing the ardent wish to enter without
delay upon the measures necessary for these great ends; and I am sure that
the immediate abolition of the slave trade is the first, the principal the
most indispensable act of policy, of duty, and of justice, that the
Legislature of this country has to take, if it is indeed their wish to
secure those important objects to which I have alluded, and which we are
bound to pursue by the most solemn obligations.
                                                                   W. Pitt.


                                   CVI.

                           "LET THERE BE LIGHT."

From her earliest colonial history, the policy of Massachusetts has been to
develop the minds of all her people, and to imbue them with the principles
of duty, To do this work most effectually, she has begun with the young. If
she would continue to mount higher and higher towards the summit of
prosperity, she must continue the means by which her present elevation has
been gained. In doing this, she will not only exercise the noblest
prerogative of government, but will coperate with the Almighty in one of
his sublimest works.

The Greek rhetorician, Longinus, quotes from the Mosaic account of the
creation what he calls the sublimest passage ever uttered: "God said, 'Let
there be light,' and there was light." From the centre of black immensity
effulgence burst forth. Above, beneath, on every side, its radiance
streamed out, silent, yet making each spot in the vast concave brighter
than the line which the lightning pencils upon the midnight cloud. Darkness
fled as the swift beams spread onward and outward, in an unending
circumfusion of splendor. Onward and outwards still they move to this day,
glorifying, through wider and wider regions of space, the infinite Author
from whose power and beneficence they sprang. But not only in the
beginning, when God created the heavens and the earth, did he say, "Let
there be light." Whenever a human soul is born into the world, its Creator
stands over it, and again pronounces the same sublime words, "Let there be
light."

Magnificent, indeed, was the material creation, when, suddenly blazing
forth in mid space, the new-born sun dispelled the darkness of the ancient
night. But infinitely more magnificent is it when the human soul rays forth
its subtler and swifter beams; when the light of the senses irradiates all
outward things, revealing the beauty of their colors, and the exquisite
symmetry of their proportions and forms; when the light of reason
penetrates to their invisible properties and laws, and displays all those
hidden relations that make up all the sciences; when the light of
conscience illuminates the moral world, separating truth from error, and
virtue from vice. The light of the newly-kindled sun, indeed, was glorious.
It struck upon all the planets, and waked into existence their myriad
capacities of life and joy. As it rebounded from them, and showed their
vast orbs all wheeling, circle beyond circle, in their stupendous courses,
the sons of God shouted for joy. That light sped onward, beyond Sirius,
beyond the pole-star, beyond Orion and the Pleiades, and is still spreading
onward into the abysses of space. But the light of the human soul flies
swifter than the light of the sun, and outshines its meridian blaze. It can
embrace not only the sun of our system, but all suns and galaxies of suns;
aye! the soul is capable of knowing and of enjoying Him who created the
suns themselves; and when these starry lustres that now glorify the
firmament shall wax dim, and fade away like a wasted taper, the light of
the soul shall still remain; nor time, nor cloud, nor any power but its own
perversity, shall ever quench its brightness. Again I would say that
whenever a human soul is born into the world, God stands over it, and
pronounces the same sublime fiat, "Let there be light!" And may the time
soon come, when all human governments shall coperate with the divine
government in carrying this benediction and baptism into fulfillment.
                                                                   H. Mann.


                                   CVII.

                              TRUE ELOQUENCE.

When public bodies are to be addressed on momentous occasions, when great
interests are at stake, and strong passions excited, nothing is valuable in
speech farther than as it is connected with high intellectual and moral
endowments. Clearness, force, and earnestness are the qualities which
produce conviction. True eloquence, indeed, does not consist in speech. It
cannot be brought from far. Labor and learning may toil for it, but they
will toil in vain. Words and phrases may be marshalled in every way, but
they cannot compass it. It must exist in the man, in the subject, and in
the occasion. Affected passion, intense expression, the pomp of
declamation, all may aspire to it; they cannot reach it. It comes, if it
come at all, like the outbreaking of a fountain from the earth, or the
bursting forth of volcanic fires, with spontaneous, original, native force.
The graces taught in the schools, the costly ornaments and studied
contrivances of speech, shock and disgust men, when their own lives, and
the fate of their wives, their children, and their country hang on the
decision of the hour. Then words have lost their power, rhetoric is vain,
and all elaborate oratory contemptible. Even genius itself then feels
rebuked and subdued, as in the presence of higher qualities. Then
patriotism is eloquent; then self-devotion is eloquent. The clear
conception, outrunning the deductions of logic, the high purpose, the firm
resolve, the dauntless spirit, speaking on the tongue, beaming from the
eye, informing every feature, and urging the whole man onward, right onward
to his object--this, this is eloquence; or rather it is something greater
and higher than all eloquence, it is action, noble, sublime, godlike
action.
                                                                D. Webster.

                                  CVIII.

                     SOUTH CAROLINA AND MASSACHUSETTS.

The eulogium pronounced by the honorable gentleman on the character of the
State of South Carolina, for her Revolutionary and other merits, meets my
hearty concurrence. I shall not acknowledge that the honorable member goes
before me in regard for whatever of distinguished talent, or distinguished
character, South Carolina has produced. I claim part of the honor, I
partake in the pride, of her great names. I claim them for countrymen, one
and all,--the Laurenses, the Rutledges, the Pinckneys, the Sumters, the
Marions,--Americans all, whose fame is no more to be hemmed in by State
lines, than their talents and patriotism were capable of being
circumscribed within the same narrow limits.

In their day and generation, they served and honored the country, and the
whole country; and their renown is of the treasures of the whole country.
Him whose honored name the gentleman himself bears,--does he esteem me
less capable of gratitude for his patriotism, or sympathy for his
sufferings, than if his eyes had first opened upon the light of
Massachusetts, instead of South Carolina? Sir, does he suppose it in his
power to exhibit a Carolina name so bright as to produce envy in my bosom?
No, sir, increased gratification and delight, rather. I thank God, that, if
I am gifted with little of the spirit which is able to raise mortals to the
skies, I have yet none, as I trust, of that other spirit, which would drag
angels down.

When I shall be found, sir, in my place here in the Senate, or elsewhere,
to sneer at public merit, because it happens to spring up beyond the little
limits of my own State or neighborhood; when I refuse, for any such cause,
or for any cause, the homage due to American talent, to elevated
patriotism, to sincere devotion to liberty and the country; or, if I see an
uncommon endowment of Heaven,--if I see extraordinary capacity and virtue,
in any son of the South, and if, moved by local prejudice or gangrened by
State jealousy, I get up here to abate the tithe of a hair from his just
character and just fame, may my tongue cleave to the roof my mouth!

Sir, let me recur to pleasing recollections, let me indulge in refreshing
remembrance of the past; let me remind you that, in early times, no States
cherished greater harmony, both of principle and feeling, than
Massachusetts and South Carolina. Would to God that harmony might again
return! Shoulder to shoulder they went through the revolution, hand in hand
they stood round the administration of Washington, and felt his own great
arm lean on them for support. Unkind feeling, if it exist, alienation and
distrust are the growth, unnatural to such soils, of false principles since
sown. They are weeds, the seeds of which that same great arm never
scattered.

Mr. President, I shall enter on no encomium upon Massachusetts; she needs
none. There she is. Behold her, and judge for yourselves. There is her
history; the world knows it by heart. The past, at least, is secure. There
is Boston, and Concord, and Lexington, and Bunker Hill; and there they will
remain forever. The bones of her sons, fallen in the great struggle for
Independence, now lie mingled with the soil of every State, from New
England to Georgia; and there they will lie forever.

And, sir, where American Liberty raised its first voice, and where its
youth was nurtured and sustained, there it still lives, in the strength of
its manhood, and full of its original spirit. If discord and disunion shall
wound it; if party strife and blind ambition shall hawk at and tear it; if
folly and madness, if uneasiness under salutary and necessary restraint,
shall succeed in separating it from that Union, by which alone its
existence is made sure, it will stand, in the end, by the side of that
cradle in which its infancy was rocked; it will stretch forth its arm with
whatever of vigor it may still retain over the friends who gather round it;
and it will fall at last, if fall it must, amid the proudest monuments of
its own glory, and on the very spot of its origin.
                                                                D. Webster.


                                   CIX.

                           AFRICAN SLAVE TRADE.

I deem it my duty on this occasion to suggest, that the land is not yet
wholly free from the contamination of a traffic, at which every feeling of
humanity must forever revolt,--I mean the African slave trade. Neither
public sentiment, nor the law, has hitherto been able entirely to put an
end to this odious and abominable trade. At the moment when God in his
mercy has blessed the Christian world with a universal peace, there is
reason to fear, that, to the disgrace of the Christian name and character,
new efforts are making for the extension of this trade by subjects and
citizens of Christian States, in whose hearts there dwell no sentiments of
humanity or of justice, and over whom neither the fear of God nor the fear
of man exercises a control. In the sight of our law, the African slave
trader is a pirate and a felon; and in the sight of Heaven, an offender far
beyond the ordinary depth of human guilt. There is no brighter page of our
history, than that which records the measures which have been adopted by
the government at an early day and at different times since, for the
suppression of this traffic; and I would call on all the true sons of New
England to coperate with the laws of man, and the justice of Heaven. If
there be, within the extent of our knowledge or influence, any
participation in this traffic, let us pledge ourselves here, upon the rock
of Plymouth, to extirpate and destroy it. It is not fit that the land of
the Pilgrims should bear the shame longer. I hear the sound of the hammer,
I see the smoke of the furnaces where manacles and fetters are still forged
for human limbs. I see the visages of those who by stealth and at midnight
labor in this work of hell, foul and dark, as may become the artificers of
such instruments of misery and torture. Let that spot be purified, or let
it cease to be of New England. Let it be purified, or let it be set aside
from the Christian world; let it be put out of the circle of human
sympathies and human regards, and let civilized man henceforth have no
communion with it.

I would invoke those who fill the seats of justice, and all who minister at
her altar, that they execute the wholesome and necessary severity of the
law. I invoke the ministers of our religion, that they proclaim its
denunciation of these crimes, and add its solemn sanctions to the authority
of human laws. If the pulpit be silent whenever or wherever there may be a
sinner bloody with this guilt within the hearing of its voice, the pulpit
is false to its trust. I call on the fair merchant, who has reaped his
harvest upon the seas, that he assist in scourging from those seas the
worst pirates that ever infested them. That ocean, which seems to wave with
a gentle magnificence to waft the burden of an honest commerce, and to roll
along its treasures with a conscious pride, that ocean, which hardy
industry regards, even when the winds have ruffled its surface, as a field
of grateful toil,--what is it to the victim of this oppression, when he is
brought to its shores, and looks forth upon it, for the first time, loaded
with chains, and bleeding with stripes? What is it to him but a wide-spread
prospect of suffering, anguish and death? Nor do the skies smile longer,
nor is the air longer fragrant to him. The sun is cast down from heaven. An
inhuman and accursed traffic has cut him off in his manhood, or in his
youth, from every enjoyment belonging to his being, and every blessing
which his Creator intended for him.

The Christian communities send forth their emissaries of religion and
letters, who stop, here and there, along the coast of the vast continent of
Africa, and with painful and tedious efforts make some almost imperceptible
progress in the communication of knowledge, and in the general improvement
of the natives who are immediately about them. Not thus slow and
imperceptible is the transmission of the vices and bad passions which the
subjects of Christian States carry to the land. The slave trade having
touched the coast, its influence and its evils spread, like a pestilence,
over the whole continent, making savage wars more savage and more frequent,
and adding new and fierce passions to the contests of barbarians.

I pursue this topic no further, except again to say, that all Christendom,
being now blessed with peace, is bound by everything which belongs to its
character, and to the character of the present age, to put a stop to this
inhuman and disgraceful traffic.
                                                                D. Webster.


                                    CX.

SUPPOSED SPEECH OF JOHN ADAMS IN FAVOR OF THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE.

Sink or swim, live or die, survive or perish, I give my hand and my heart
to this vote. It is true, indeed, that in the beginning, we aimed not at
independence. But there's a Divinity which shapes our ends. The injustice
of England has driven us to arms; and, blinded to her own interest, for our
good, she has obstinately persisted, till independence is now within our
grasp. We have but to reach forth to it, and it is ours. Why, then, should
we defer the Declaration? Is any man so weak as now to hope for a
reconciliation with England, which shall leave either safety to the country
and its liberties, or safety to his own life, and his own honor? Are not
you, sir, who sit in that chair,--is not he, our venerable colleague, near
you, are you not both already the proscribed and predestined objects of
punishment and vengeance? Cut off from all hope of royal clemency what are
you, what can you be, while the power of England remains, but outlaws?

If we postpone independence, do we mean to carry on, or to give up, the
war? Do we mean to submit to the measures of Parliament, Boston Port Bill
and all? Do we mean to submit, and consent that we ourselves shall be
ground to powder, and our Country and its rights trodden down in the dust?
I know we do not mean to submit. We never shall submit. Do we intend to
violate that most solemn obligation ever entered into by men, that
plighting, before God, of our sacred honor to Washington, when putting him
forth to incur the dangers of war, as well as the political hazards of the
times, we promised to adhere to him, in every extremity, with our fortunes
and our lives? I know there is not a man here, who would not rather see a
general conflagration sweep over the land, or an earthquake sink it, than
one jot or tittle of that plighted faith fall to the ground. For myself,
having, twelve months ago, in this place, moved you, that George Washington
be appointed commander of the forces, raised, or to be raised, for the
defence of American liberty, may my right hand forget her cunning, and my
tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth if I hesitate or waver in the support
I give him.

The war, then, must go on. We must fight it through. And, if the war must
go on, why put off longer the Declaration of Independence? That measure
will strengthen us; it will give us character abroad. The nations will then
treat with us, which they never can do while we acknowledge ourselves
subjects, in arms against our sovereign. Nay, I maintain that England her
self will sooner treat for peace with us on the footing of independence,
than consent, by repealing her acts, to acknowledge that her whole conduct
towards us has been a course of injustice and oppression. Her pride will be
less wounded, by submitting to that course of things which now
predestinates our independence than by yielding the points in controversy
to her rebellious subjects. The former she would regard as the result of
fortune; the latter she would feel as her own deep disgrace. Why then, why
then, sir, do we not as soon as possible change this from a civil to a
national war? And since we must fight it through, why not put ourselves in
a state to enjoy all the benefits of victory if we gain the victory?
                                                                D. Webster.


                                   CXI.

                            THE SAME CONCLUDED.

If we fail, it can be no worse for us. But we shall not fail. The cause
will raise up armies; the cause will create navies. The people, the people,
if we are true to them, will carry us and will carry themselves, gloriously
through this struggle. I care not how fickle other people have been found.
I know the people of these Colonies, and I know that resistance to British
aggression is deep and settled in their hearts, and cannot be eradicated.
Every Colony, indeed, has expressed its willingness to follow, if we but
take the lead. Sir, the Declaration will inspire the people with increased
courage. Instead of a long and bloody war for restoration of privileges,
for redress of grievances, for chartered immunities, held under a British
king, set before them the glorious object of entire independence, and it
will breathe into them anew the breath of life. Read this Declaration at
the head of the army; every sword will be drawn from its scabbard, and the
solemn vow uttered, to maintain it, or to perish on the bed of honor.
Publish it from the pulpit; religion will approve it, and the love of
religious liberty will cling round it, resolved to stand with it, or fall
with it. Send it to the public halls; proclaim it there; let them hear it,
who heard the first roar of the enemy's cannon; let them see it, who saw
their brothers and their sons fall on the field of Bunker Hill, and in the
streets of Lexington and Concord, and the very walls will cry out in its
support.

Sir, I know the uncertainty of human affairs; but I see, I see dearly
through this day's business. You and I, indeed, may run it. We may not live
to the time when this Declaration shall be made good. We may die; die
colonists; die slaves; die, it may be, ignominiously and on the scaffold.
Be it so. Be it so. If it be the pleasure of Heaven, that my country shall
require the poor offering of my life, the victim shall be ready at the
appointed hour of sacrifice, come when that hour may. But, while I do live,
let me have a country, or at least the hope of a country, and that a free
country.

But, whatever may be our fate, be assured, be assured, that this
Declaration will stand. It may cost treasure, and it may cost blood; but it
will stand, and it will richly compensate for both. Through the thick gloom
of the present, I see the brightness of the future, as the sun in heaven.
We shall make this a glorious, an immortal day. When we are in our graves,
our children will honor it. They will celebrate it, with thanksgiving, with
festivity, with bonfires, and illuminations. On its annual return, they
will shed tears, copious, gushing tears, not of subjection and slavery, not
of agony and distress, but of exultation, of gratitude, and of joy.

Sir, before God, I believe the hour is come. My judgment approves this
measure, and my whole heart is in it. All that I have, and all that I am,
and all that I hope, in this life, I am now ready here to stake upon it;
and I leave off, as I begun, that, live or die, survive or perish, I am for
the Declaration. It is my living sentiment, and, by the blessing of God, it
shall be my dying sentiment,--Independence now; and Independence Forever!
                                                                D. Webster.


                                   CXII.

                 INFLUENCE OF THE CHARACTER OF WASHINGTON.

America has furnished to the world the character of Washington! And if our
American institutions had done nothing else, that alone would have entitled
them to the respect of mankind.

Washington! "First in war, first in peace, and first in the hearts of his
countrymen!" Washington is all our own! The enthusiastic veneration and
regard in which the people of the United States hold him prove them to be
worthy of such a countryman; while his reputation abroad redeems the
highest honor on his country and its institutions. I would cheerfully put
the question to-day to the intelligence of Europe and the world what
character of the century, upon the whole, stands out in the relief of
history, most pure, most respectable, most sublime; and I doubt not, that,
by a suffrage approaching to unanimity, the answer would be Washington!

The structure now standing before us, by its uprightness, its solidity, its
durability, is no unfit emblem of his character. His public virtues and
public principles were as firm as the earth on which it stands; his
personal motives, as pure as the serene heavens in which its summit is
lost. But, indeed, though a fit, it is an inadequate emblem. Towering high
above the column which our hands have builded, beheld, not by the
inhabitants of a single city or a single State, but by all the families of
man, ascends the colossal grandeur of the character and life of Washington.
In all the constituents of the one, in all the acts of the other, in all
its titles to immortal love, admiration and renown, it is an American
production. It is the embodiment and vindication of our Transatlantic
liberty.

Born upon our soil of parents also born upon it; never for a moment having
had sight of the Old World; instructed, according to the modes of his
time, only in the spare, plain, but wholesome elementary knowledge which
our institutions provided for the children of the people; growing up
beneath and penetrated by the genuine influences of American society;
living from infancy to manhood and age amidst our expanding, but not
luxurious civilization; partaking in our great destiny of labor, our long
contest with unreclaimed nature and uncivilized man, our agony of glory,
the war of independence, our great victory of peace, the formation of the
Union, and the establishment of the Constitution; he is all, all our own!
Washington is ours. That crowded and glorious life,

    "Where multitudes of virtues passed along,
     Each pressing foremost, in the mighty throng
     Ambitious to be seen, then making room
     For greater multitudes that were to come,"--

that life was the life of an American citizen.

I claim him for America. In all the perils, in every darkened moment of the
State, in the midst of the reproaches of enemies and the misgiving of
friends, I turn to that transcendent name for courage and for consolation.
To him who denies or doubts whether our fervid liberty can be combined with
law, with order, with the security of property, with the pursuits and
advancement of happiness; to him who denies that our forms of government
are capable of producing exaltation of soul, and the passion of true glory;
to him who denies that we have contributed anything to the stock of great
lessons and great examples; to all these I reply by pointing to Washington!
                                                                D. Webster.


                                  CXIII.

                              PUBLIC OPINION.

The time has been, indeed, when fleets, and armies, and subsidies, were the
principal reliances even in the best cause. But, happily for mankind, a
great change has taken place in this respect. Moral causes come into
consideration, in proportion as the progress of knowledge is advanced; and
the public opinion of the civilized world is rapidly gaining an ascendeney
over mere brutal force. It is already able to oppose the most formidable
obstruction to the progress of injustice and oppression; and as it grows
more intelligent and more intense it will be more and more formidable. It
may be silenced by military power, but it cannot be conquered. It is
elastic, irrepressible, and invulnerable to the weapons of ordinary
warfare. It is that impassive, inextinguishable enemy of mere violence and
arbitrary rule, which, like Milton's angels,

     "Vital in every part, . . . . .
     Cannot, but by annihilating die."

Until this be propitiated or satisfied, it is vain for power to talk either
of triumphs or of repose. No matter what fields are desolated, what
fortresses surrendered, what armies subdued, or what provinces overrun. In
the history of the year that has passed by us, and in the instance of
unhappy Spain, we have seen the vanity of all triumphs in a cause which
violates the general sense of justice of the civilized world. It is nothing
that the troops of France have passed from the Pyrenees to Cadiz; it is
nothing that an unhappy and prostrate nation has fallen before them; it is
nothing that arrests, and confiscation, and execution, sweep away the
little remnant of national resistance. There is an enemy that still exists
to check the glory of these triumphs. It follows the conqueror back to the
very scene of his ovations; it calls upon him to take notice that Europe,
though silent, is yet indignant; it shows him that the sceptre of his
victory is a barren sceptre; that it shall confer neither joy nor honor,
but shall moulder to dry ashes in his grasp. In the midst of his
exultation, it pierces his ear with the cry of injured Justice; it
denounces against him the indignation of an enlightened and civilized age;
it turns to bitterness the cup of his rejoicing, and wounds him with the
sting which belongs to the consciousness of having outraged the opinion of
mankind.
                                                                D. Webster.


                                   CXIV.

                          THE MURDERER'S SECRET.

The deed was executed with a degree of self-possession and steadiness,
equal to the wickedness with which it was planned. The circumstances, now
clearly in evidence, spread out the whole scene before us. Deep sleep had
fallen on the destined victim, and on all beneath his roof A healthful old
man, to whom sleep was sweet, the just sound slumbers of the night held him
in their soft but strong embrace. The assassin enters, through the window
already prepared, into an unoccupied apartment. With noiseless foot he
paces the lonely hall half-lighted by the moon; he winds up the ascent of
the stairs, and reaches the door of the chamber. Of this, he moves the
lock, by soft and continued pressure, till it turns on its hinges without
noise; and he enters, and beholds his victim before him. The room was
uncommonly open to the admission of light. The face of the innocent sleeper
was turned from the murderer, and the beams of the moon, resting on the
gray locks of his aged temple, showed him where to strike. The fatal blow
is given! and the victim passes, without a struggle or a motion, from the
repose of sleep to the repose of death! It is the assassin's purpose to
make sure work; and he plies the dagger, though it is obvious that life has
been destroyed by the blow of the bludgeon. He even raises the aged arm,
that he may not fail in his aim at the heart, and replaces it again over
the wounds of the poniard. To finish the picture, he explores the wrist for
the pulse! He feels for it and ascertains that it beats no longer! It is
accomplished. The deed is done. He retreats, retraces his steps to the
window, passes out through it as he came in, and escapes. He has done the
murder. No eye has seen him, no ear has heard him. The secret is his own,
and it is safe!

Ah! gentlemen, that was a dreadful mistake. Such a secret can be safe
nowhere. The whole creation of God has neither nook nor corner, where the
guilty can bestow it, and say it is safe. Not to speak of that eye which
glances through all disguises, and beholds everything, as in the splendor
of noon, such secrets of guilt are never safe from detection, even by man.
                                                                D. Webster.

                                   CXV.

                            THE SAME CONCLUDED.

True it is, generally speaking, that murder "will out." True it is, that
Providence hath so ordained, and doth so govern tidings, that those who
break the great law of Heaven by shedding man's blood, seldom succeed in
avoiding discovery. Especially, in a case exciting so much attention as
this, discovery must and will come, sooner or later. A thousand eyes turn
at once to explore every man, every thing every circumstance, connected
with the time and place; a thousand ears catch every whisper; a thousand
excited minds intensely dwell on the scene; shedding all their light, and
ready to kindle the slightest circumstance into a blaze of discovery.

Meantime, the guilty soul cannot keep its own secret. It is false to
itself; or rather it feels an irresistible impulse of conscience to be true
to itself. It labors under its guilty possession, and knows not what to do
with it. The human heart was not made for the residence of such an
inhabitant. It finds itself preyed on by a torment, which it dares not
acknowledge to God or man. A vulture is devouring it, and it asks no
sympathy or assistance, either from heaven or earth. The secret which the
murderer possesses, soon comes to possess him; and, like the evil spirits
of which we read, it overcomes him, and leads him whithersoever it will. He
feels it beating at his heart, rising to his throat, and demanding
disclosure. He thinks the whole world sees it in his face, reads it in his
eyes, and almost hears its workings in the very silence of his thoughts. It
has become his master. It betrays his discretion, it breaks down his
courage, it conquers his prudence. When suspicions from without begin to
embarrass him, and the net of circumstances to entangle him, the fatal
secret struggles with still greater violence to burst forth. It must be
confessed; it will be confessed; there is no refuge from confession but
suicide; and suicide is confession.
                                                                D. Webster.


                                   CXVI.

                      DEFENCE OF AMERICAN CLERGYMEN.

By this Will, no minister of the Gospel of any sect or denomination
whatever can be authorized or allowed to hold any office within the
college; and not only that, but no minister or clergyman of any sect can,
for any purpose whatever, enter within the walls that are to surround this
college.

Now I will not arraign the founder of this institution or his motives for
this. I will not inquire into his opinions upon religion. But I feel bound
to say, the occasion demands that I should say that this is the most
opprobrious, the most insulting and unmerited stigma, that ever was cast,
or attempted to be cast, upon the preachers of Christianity, from north to
south, from east to west, through the length and breadth of the land, in
the history of the country. When have they deserved it? Where have they
deserved it? How have they deserved it? They are not to be allowed even the
ordinary rights of hospitality; not even to be permitted to put their foot
over the threshold of this college!

Sir, I take it upon myself to say, that in no country in the world, upon
either continent, can there be found a body of ministers of the Gospel who
perform so much service to man, in such a full spirit of self-denial, under
so little encouragement from government of any kind, and under
circumstances almost always much straitened and often distressed, at the
ministers of the Gospel in the United States, of all denominations. They
form no part of any established order of religion; they constitute no
hierarchy; they enjoy no peculiar privileges. In some of the states they
are even shut out from all participation in the political rights and
privileges enjoyed by their fellow-citizens. They enjoy no tithes, no
public provision of any kind. Except here and there in large cities, where
a wealthy individual occasionally makes a donation for the support of
public worship, what have they to depend upon? They have to depend entirely
on the voluntary contributions of those who hear them.

And this body of clergymen has shown, to the honor of their own country and
to the astonishment of the hierarchies of the Old World that it is
practicable in free governments to raise and sustain by voluntary
contributions alone a body of clergymen which, for devotedness to their
sacred calling, for purity of life and character, for learning,
intelligence, piety, and that wisdom which cometh from above, is inferior
to none, and superior to most others.

I hope that our learned men have done something for the honor of our
literature abroad. I hope that the courts of justice and members of the bar
of this country have done something to elevate the character of the
profession of the law. I hope that the discussions above (in Congress) have
done something to meliorate the condition of the human race, to secure and
extend the great charter of human rights, and to strengthen and advance the
great principles of human liberty. But I contend that no literary efforts,
no adjudications, no constitutional discussions, nothing that has been said
or done in favor of the great interests of universal man, has done this
country more credit, at home and abroad, than the establishment of our
body of clergymen, their support by voluntary contributions, and the
general excellence off their character for piety and learning.

The great truth has thus been proclaimed and proved, a truth which I
believe will in time to come shake all the hierarchies of Europe, that the
voluntary support of such a ministry, under free institutions, is a
practicable idea.
                                                                D. Webster.


                                  CXVII.

                      PEACEABLE SECESSION IMPOSSIBLE.

Mr. President, I should much prefer to have heard from every member on this
floor declarations of opinion that this Union could never be dissolved,
than the declaration of opinion by any body, that, in any case, under the
pressure of any circumstances, such a dissolution was possible. I hear with
distress and anguish the word "secession," especially when it falls from
the lips of those who are patriotic, and known to the country, and known
all over the world, for their political services.

Secession! Peaceable secession! Sir, your eyes and mine are never destined
to see that miracle. The dismemberment of this vast country without
convulsion! The breaking up of the fountains of the great deep without
ruffling the surface! Who is so foolish, I beg everybody's pardon, as to
expect to see any such thing? Sir, he who sees these States, now revolving
in harmony around a common centre, and expects to see them quit their
places and fly off without convulsion, may look the next hour to see the
heavenly bodies rush from their spheres, and jostle against each other in
the realms of space, without causing the wreck of the universe.

There can be no such thing as peaceable secession. Peaceable secession is
an utter impossibility. Is the great Constitution under which we live,
covering this whole country, is it to be thawed and melted away by
secession, as the snows on the mountain melt under the influence of a
vernal sun, disappear almost unobserved, and run off? No, sir! No, sir! I
will not state what might produce the disruption of the Union; but, sir, I
see as plainly as I see the sun in heaven what that disruption itself must
produce; I see that it must produce war, and such a war as I will not
describe, in its twofold character.

Peaceable secession! Peaceable secession! The concurrent agreement of all
the members of this great republic to separate! A voluntary separation,
with alimony on one side and on the other. Why, what would be the result?
Where is the line to be drawn? What States are to secede? What is to remain
American? What am I to be? An American no longer? Am I to become a
sectional man, a local man, a separatist, with no country in common with
the gentlemen who sit around me here, or who fill the other house of
Congress? Heaven forbid! Where is the flag of the republic to remain? Where
is the eagle still to tower? or is he to cower, and shrink, and fall to the
ground? Why, sir, our ancestors, our fathers and our grandfathers, those of
them that are yet living amongst us with prolonged lives, would rebuke and
reproach us; and our children and our grandchildren would cry out shame
upon us, if we of this generation should dishonor these ensigns of the
power of the government and the harmony of that Union which is every day
felt among us with so much joy and gratitude.

What is to become of the army? What is to become of the navy? What is to
become of the public lands? How is each of tile thirty States to defend
itself? But, sir, I am ashamed to pursue this line of remark, I dislike it,
I have an utter disgust for it. I would rather hear of natural blasts and
mildews, war, pestilence, and famine, than to hear gentlemen talk of
secession. To break up this great government! to dismember this glorious
country! to astonish Europe with an act of folly such as Europe for two
centuries has never beheld in any government or any people! No, Sir! no,
Sir! There will be no secession! Gentlemen are not serious when they talk
of secession.
                                                                D. Webster.


                                  CXVIII.

                            LIBERTY AND UNION.

I profess, sir, in my career hitherto, to have kept steadily in view the
prosperity and honor of the whole country, and the preservation of our
Federal Union. It is to that Union we owe our safety at home, and our
consideration and dignity abroad. It is to that Union that we are chiefly
indebted for whatever makes us most proud of our country. That Union we
reached only by the discipline of our virtues, in the severe school of
adversity. It had its origin in the necessities of disordered finance,
prostrate commerce, and ruined credit. Under its benign influences, these
great interests immediately awoke, as from the dead, and sprang forth with
newness of life. Every year of its duration has teemed with fresh proofs of
its utility and its blessings; and though our territory has stretched out
wider and wider, and our population spread farther and farther, they have
not outrun its protection or its benefits. It has been to us all a copious
fountain of national, social, personal happiness.

I have not allowed myself sir, to look beyond the Union, to see what might
lie hidden in the dark recesses behind. I have not coolly weighted the
chances of preserving liberty, when the bonds that unite us together shall
be broken asunder. I have not accustomed myself to hang over the precipice
of disunion, to see whether, with my short sight, I can fathom the depth of
the abyss below; nor could I regard him as a safe counsellor in the affairs
of this government, whose thoughts should be mainly bent on considering,
not how the Union may be best preserved, but how tolerable might be the
condition of the people when it shall be broken up and destroyed.

While the Union lasts, we have high, exciting, gratifying prospects spread
out before us, for us and our children. Beyond that I seek not to penetrate
the veil. God grant that in my day, at least, that curtain may not rise!
God grant that on my vision never may be opened what lies behind! When my
eyes shall be turned to behold for the last time the sun in heaven, may I
not see him shining on the broken and dishonored fragments of a once
glorious Union; on States dissevered, discordant, belligerent; on a land
rent with civil feuds, or drenched, it may be, in fraternal blood! Let
their last feeble and lingering glance rather behold the gorgeous ensign of
the republic, now known and clamored throughout the earth, still full high
advanced, its arms and trophies streaming in their original lustre, not a
stripe erased or polluted, nor a single star obscured, bearing for its
motto, no such miserable interrogatory as "What is all this worth?" nor
those other words of delusion and folly, "Liberty first and Union
afterwards," but everywhere, spread all over in characters of living light,
blazing on all its ample folds, as they float over the sea and over the
land, and in every wind under the whole heavens, that other sentiment dear
to every true American heart,--Liberty AND Union, Now And For Ever, One
And Inseparable.
                                                                D. Webster.


                                   CXIX.

                  EVENTS GREAT, BECAUSE OF THEIR RESULTS.

Great actions and striking occurrences having excited a temporary
admiration, often pass away and are forgotten, because they leave no
lasting results, affecting the prosperity and happiness of communities.
Such is frequently the fortune of the most brilliant military achievements.
Of the ten thousand battles which have been fought, of all the fields
fertilized with carnage, of the banners which have been bathed in blood, of
the warriors who have hoped that they had risen from the field of conquest
to a glory as bright and as durable as the stars, how few that continue
long to interest mankind! The victory of yesterday is reversed by the
defeat of to-day; the star of military glory, rising like a meteor, like a
meteor has fallen; disgrace and disaster hang on the heels of conquest and
renown; victor and vanquished presently pass away to oblivion, and the
world goes on in its course, with the loss only of so many lives and so
much treasure.

But if this be frequently, or generally, the fortune of military
achievements, it is not always so. There are enterprises, military as well
as civil, which sometimes check the current of events, give a new turn to
human affairs, and transmit their consequences through ages. We see their
importance in their results, and call them great because great things
follow. There have been battles which have fixed the fate of nations. These
come down to us in history with a solid and permanent interest not created
by a display of glittering armor, the rush of adverse battalions, the
sinking and rising of pennons, the flight, the pursuit, and the victory;
but by their effect in advancing or retarding human knowledge, in
overthrowing or establishing despotism, in extending or destroying human
happiness.

When the traveller pauses on the plains of Marathon, what are the emotions
which most strongly agitate his breast? What is that glorious recollection,
which thrills through his frame and suffuses his eyes? Not I imagine that
Grecian skill and Grecian valor were here most signally displayed; but that
Greece herself was here saved. It is because to this spot, and to the event
which has rendered it immortal, he refers all the succeeding glories of the
republic. It is because if that day had gone otherwise, Greece had
perished. It is because he perceives that her philosophers and orators, her
poets and painters, her sculptors and architects, her governments and free
institutions, point backward to Marathon, and that their future existence
seems to have been suspended on the contingency, whether the Persian or the
Greek banner should wave victorious in the beams of that day's setting sun.
And as his imagination kindles at the retrospect, he is transported back to
the interesting moment, he counts the fearful odds of the contending hosts,
his interest for the result overwhelms him; he trembles, as if it were
still uncertain, and seems to doubt whether he may consider Socrates and
Plato, Demosthenes, Sophocles, and Phidias, as secure, yet, to himself and
to the world.
                                                                D. Webster.


                                   CXX.

                          THE FUTURE OF AMERICA.

Fellow-citizens, the hours of this day are rapidly flying, and this
occasion will soon be passed. Neither we nor our children can expect to
behold its return. They are in the distant regions of futurity, they exist
only in the all-creating power of God, who shall stand here, a hundred
years hence, to trace, through us, their descent from the Pilgrims, and to
survey, as we have now surveyed, the progress of their country during the
lapse of a century. We would anticipate their concurrence with us in our
sentiments of deep regard for our common ancestors. We would anticipate and
partake the pleasure with which they will then recount the steps of New
England's advancement. On the morning of that day, although it will not
disturb us in our repose, the voice of acclamation and gratitude,
commencing on the rock of Plymouth, shall be transmitted through millions
of the sons of the Pilgrims, till it lose itself in the murmurs of the
Pacific seas. We would leave, for the consideration of those who shall then
occupy our places, some proof that we hold the blessings transmitted from
our fathers in just estimation; some proof of our attachment to the cause
of good government, and of civil and religious liberty; some proof of a
sincere and ardent desire to promote everything which may enlarge the
understandings, and improve the hearts, of men. And when, from the long
distance of a hundred years, they shall look back upon us, they shall know,
at least, that we possessed affections, which, running backward and warming
with gratitude for what our ancestors have done for our happiness, run
forward also to our posterity and meet them with cordial salutation, ere
yet they have arrived on the shore of being.

Advance, then, ye future generations! We would hail you, as you rise in
your long succession, to fill the places which we now fill, and to taste
the blessings of existence, where we are passing, and soon shall have
passed, our human duration. We bid you welcome to the healthful skies and
the verdant fields of New England. We greet your accession to the great
inheritance which we have enjoyed. We welcome you to the blessings of good
government, and religious liberty. We welcome you to the treasures of
science, and the delights of learning. We welcome you to the transcendent
sweets of domestic life, to the happiness of kindred, and parents, and
children. We welcome you to the immeasurable blessings of rational
existence, the immortal hope of Christianity and the light of everlasting
truth.
                                                                D. Webster.


                                   CXXI.

                            LIBERTY OF SPEECH.

Important, sir, as I deem it to discuss, on all proper occasions, the
policy of the measures at present pursued, it is still more important to
maintain the right of such discussion in its full and just extent.
Sentiments lately sprung up, and now growing fashionable, make it necessary
to be explicit on this point. The more I perceive a disposition to check
the freedom of inquiry by extravagant and unconstitutional pretences, the
firmer shall be the tone in which I shall assert, and the freer the manner
in which I shall exercise it.

It is the ancient and undoubted prerogative of this people to canvass
public measures, and the merits of public men. It is a "home-bred"
right, a fireside privilege. It hath ever been enjoyed in every house,
cottage, and cabin, in the nation. It is not to be drawn into
controversy. It is as undoubted as the right of breathing the air, or
walking on the earth. Belonging to private life as a right, it belongs
to public life as a duty; and it is the last duty which those whose
representative I am shall find me to abandon. Aiming at all times to be
courteous and temperate in its use, except when the right itself shall
be questioned, I shall then carry it to its extent. I shall place myself
on the extreme boundary of my right, and bid defiance to any arm that
would move me from my ground.

This high constitutional privilege I shall defend and exercise within this
house, and in all places; in times of peace, and in all times. Living, I
shall assert it; and, should I leave no other inheritance to my children,
by the blessing of God I will leave them the inheritance of free
principles, and the example of a manly, independent, and constitutional
defence of them.
                                                                D. Webster.


                                  CXXII.

                   WASHINGTON TO THE PRESENT GENERATION.

Fellow-citizens,--What contemplations are awakened in our minds, as we
assemble here to reenact a scene like that performed by Washington!
Methinks I see his venerable form now before me, as presented in the
glorious statue by Houdon, now in the capital of Virginia. He is dignified
and grave; but his concern and anxiety seem to soften the lineaments of his
countenance. The government over which he presides is yet in the crisis of
experiment. Not free from troubles at home, he sees the world in commotion
and arms, all around him. He sees that imposing foreign powers are half
disposed to try the strength of the recently established American
government. We perceive that mighty thoughts, mingled with fears as well as
hopes, are struggling within him. He heads a short procession over these
then naked fields; he crosses yonder stream on a fallen tree; he ascends to
the top of this eminence, whose original oaks of the forest stand as thick
around him as if the spot had been devoted to Druidical worship, and here
he performs the appointed duty of the day.

And now, fellow-citizens, if this vision were a reality,--if Washington
actually were now amongst us,--and if he could draw around him the shades
of the great public men of his own days,--patriots and warriors, orators
and statesmen, and were to address us, in their presence, would he not say
to us,--"Ye men of this generation, I rejoice, and thank God for being able
to see that our labors, and toils, and sacrifices, were not in vain. You
are prosperous,--you are happy,--you are grateful. The fire of liberty
burns brightly and steadily in your hearts, while duty and the law restrain
it from bursting forth in wild and destructive conflagration. Cherish
liberty, as you love it;--cherish its securities, as you wish to preserve
it. Maintain the Constitution which we labored so painfully to establish
and which has been to you such a source of inestimable blessings. Preserve
the Union of the States, cemented as it was by our prayers, our tears, and
our blood. Be true to God, to your country, and to your duty. So shall the
whole Eastern world follow the morning sun, to contemplate you as a nation;
so shall all succeeding generations honor you as they honor us; and so
shall that Almighty Power which so graciously protected us, and which now
protects you, shower its everlasting blessings upon you and your
posterity."

Great father of your country! we heed your words; we feel their force as if
you uttered them with life of flesh and blood. Your example teaches us;
your affectionate addresses teach us; your public life teaches us your
sense of the value of the blessings of the Union. Those blessings our
fathers have tasted, and we have tasted, and still taste. Nor do we intend
that those who come after us shall be denied the same high fruition, Our
honor as well as our happiness is concerned. We cannot, we dare not, we
will not, betray our sacred trust. We will not filch from posterity the
treasure placed in our hands to be transmitted to other generations. The
bow that gilds the clouds in the heavens, tile pillars that uphold the
firmament, may disappear and fall away, in the hour appointed by the will
of God; but, until that day comes, or so long as our lives may last, no
ruthless hand shall undermine that bright arch of Union and Liberty which
spans the continent from Washington to California.
                                                                D. Webster.


                                  CXXIII.

                     THE PLATFORM OF THE CONSTITUTION.

A principal object, in his late political movements the gentleman himself
tells us, was to unite the entire South; and against whom, or against what,
does he wish to unite the entire South? Is not this the very essence of
local feeling and local regard? Is it not the acknowledgment of a wish and
object to create political strength, by uniting political opinions
geographically? While the gentleman wishes to unite the entire South, I
pray to know, sir, if he expects me to turn toward the polar star, and,
acting on the same principle, to utter a cry of Rally! to the whole North?
Heaven forbid! To the day of my death, neither he nor others shall hear
such a cry from me.

Finally, the honorable member declares that he shall now march off, under
the banner of State rights! March off from whom? March off from what? We
have been contending for great principles. We have been struggling to
maintain the liberty and to restore the prosperity of the country; we have
made these struggles here, in the national councils, with the old flag--the
true American flag, the Eagle and the Stars and Stripes--waving over the
chamber in which we sit. He now tells us, however, that he marches off
under the State-rights banner!

Let him go. I remain. I am, where I ever have been, and ever mean to be.
Here, standing on the platform of the general Constitution,--a platform
broad enough, and firm enough, to uphold every interest of the whole
country,--I shall still be found. Intrusted with some part in the
administration of that Constitution, I intend to act in its spirit, and in
the spirit of those who framed it. Yes, sir. I would act as if our fathers,
who formed it for us, and who bequeathed it to us, were looking on me,--as
if I could see their venerable forms, bending down to behold us from the
abodes above! I would act, too, as if the eye of posterity was gazing on
me.

Standing thus, as in the full gaze of our ancestors and our posterity,
having received this inheritance from the former to be transmitted to the
latter, and feeling that, if I am born for any good, in my day and
generation, it is for the good of the whole country,--no local policy, no
local feeling, no temporary impulse, shall induce me to yield my foothold
on the Constitution and the Union. I move off under no banner not known to
the whole American People, and to their Constitution and laws. No, sir!
these walls, these columns,

                            "shall fly
     From their firm base as soon as I."

I came into public life, sir, in the service of the United States. On that
broad altar my earliest and all my public vows have been made. I propose to
serve no other master. So far as depends on any agency of mine, they shall
continue United States;--united in interest and in affection; united in
everything in regard to which the Constitution has decreed their union;
united in war, for the common defense, the common renown, and the common
glory; and united, compacted, knit firmly together, in peace, for the
common prosperity and happiness of ourselves and our children!
                                                                D. Webster.


                                  CXXIV.

                THE VETERANS OF THE BATTLE OF BUNKER HILL.

The great event in the history of the Continent, which we are now met here
to commemorate, that prodigy of modern times, at once the wonder and the
blessing of the world, is the American Revolution. In a day of
extraordinary prosperity and happiness, of high national honor,
distinction, and power, we are brought together, in this place, by our love
of country by our admiration of exalted character, by our gratitude for
signal services and patriotic devotion. And we now stand here to enjoy all
the blessings of our own condition, and to look abroad on the brightened
prospects of the world, while we still have among us some of those who were
active agents in the scenes of 1775, and who are now here, from every
quarter of New England, to visit once more, and under circumstances so
affecting,--I had almost said so overwhelming, this renowned theatre of
their courage and patriotism.

Venerable men! you have come down to us from a former generation. Heaven
has bounteously lengthened out your lives, that you may behold this joyous
day. You are now where you stood fifty years ago, this very hour, with your
brothers and your neighbors, shoulder to shoulder, in the strife for your
country. Behold, how altered! The same heavens are indeed over your heads;
the same ocean rolls at your feet; but all else how changed! You hear now
no roar of hostile cannon, you see no mixed volumes of smoke and flame
rising from burning Charlestown. The ground strowed with the dead and the
dying; the impetuous charge; the steady and successful repulse; the loud
call to repeated assault; the summoning of all that is manly to repeated
resistance; a thousand bosoms freely and fearlessly bared in an instant to
whatever of terror there may be in war and death;--all these you have
witnessed, but you witness them no more. All is peace. The heights of
yonder metropolis, its towers and roofs, which you then saw filled with
wives and children and countrymen in distress and terror, and looking with
unutterable emotions for the issue of the combat, have presented you to-day
with the sight of its whole happy population, come out to welcome and greet
you with a universal jubilee. Yonder proud ships by a felicity of position
appropriately lying at the foot of this mount, and seeming fondly to cling
around it, are not means of annoyance to you, but your country's own means
of distinction and defence. All is peace; and God has granted you this
sight of your country's happiness, ere you slumber in the grave. He has
allowed you to behold and to partake the reward of your patriotic toils;
and he has allowed us, your sons and countrymen, to meet you here, and in
the name of the present generation, in the name of your country, in the
name of liberty, to thank you!

But, alas! you are not all here! Time and the sword have thinned your
ranks. Prescott, Putnam, Stark, Brooks, Read, Pomeroy, Bridge! our eyes
seek for you in vain amid ibis broken band. You are gathered to your
fathers, and live only to your county in her grateful remembrance and your
own bright example. But let us not too much grieve, that you have met the
common fate of men. You lived at least long enough to know that your work
had been nobly and successfully accomplished. You lived to see your
country's independence established, and to sheathe your swords from war. On
the light of Liberty you saw arise the light of Peace, like

          "another morn
      risen on mid-noon;"

and the sky on which you closed your eyes was cloudless.

But ah! Him! the first great martyr in this great cause! Him! the premature
victim of his own self-devoting heart! Him! the head of our civil councils,
and the destined leader of our military bands, whom nothing brought hither
but the unquenchable fire of his own spirit! Him! cut off by Providence in
the hour of overwhelming anxiety and thick gloom; falling ere he saw the
star of his country rise; pouring out his generous blood like water, before
he knew whether it would fertilize a land of freedom or of bondage!--how
shall I struggle with the emotions that stifle the utterance of thy name!
Our poor work may perish; but thine shall endure! This monument may moulder
away; the solid ground it rests upon may sink down to a level with the sea;
but thy memory shall not fail! Wheresoever among men a heart shall be found
that beats to the transports of patriotism and liberty, its aspirations
shall be to claim kindred with thy spirit!
                                                                D. Webster.


                                   CXXV.

                 REPLY TO THE REFLECTIONS OF MR. WALPOLE.

Sir the atrocious crime of being a young man, which the honorable
gentleman has, with such spirit and decency charged upon me, I shall
neither attempt to palliate nor deny; but content myself with
wishing,--that I may be one of those whose follies cease with their youth;
and not of that number who are ignorant in spite of experience.

Whether youth can be imputed to any man as a reproach, I will not, sir,
assume the province of determining; but surely, age may become justly
contemptible,--if the opportunities which it brings have passed away
without improvement, and vice appears to prevail when the passions have
subsided. The wretch who, after having seen the consequences of a thousand
errors, continues still to blunder, and whose age has only added obstinacy
to stupidity, is surely the object of either abhorrence or contempt; and
deserves not that his gray hairs should secure him from insult. Much more,
sir, is he to be abhorred,--who, as he has advanced in age, has receded
from virtue, and becomes more wicked with less temptation; who prostitutes
himself for money which he cannot enjoy, and spends the remains of his life
in the ruin of his country.

But youth, sir, is not my only crime. I have been accused of acting a
theatrical part. A theatrical part may either imply some peculiarities of
gesture, or dissimulation of my real sentiments, and the adoption of the
opinions and language of another man. In the first sense the charge is too
trifling to be confuted, and deserves only to be mentioned that it may be
despised. I am at liberty, like every other man, to use my own language:
and though I may perhaps, have some ambition, yet to please this gentleman,
I shall not lay myself under any restraint, nor very solicitously copy his
diction, or his mien, however matured by age, or modelled by experience. If
any man shall, by charging me with theatrical behavior, imply that I utter
any sentiments but my own, I shall treat him as a calumniator and a
villain; nor shall any protection shelter him from the treatment he
deserves. I shall, on such an occasion, without scruple trample upon all
those forms with which wealth and dignity intrench themselves, nor shall
anything but age restrain my resentment; age which always brings one
privilege, that of being insolent and supercilious without punishment. But
with regard, sir, to those whom I have offended, I am of opinion, that if I
had acted a borrowed part I should have avoided their censure; the heat
that offended them was the ardor of conviction, and that zeal for the
service of my country, which neither hope nor fear shall influence me to
suppress. I will not sit unconcerned while my liberty is invaded, nor look
in silence upon public robbery. I will exert my endeavors, at whatever
hazard, to repel the aggressor, and drag the thief to justice,--whoever may
protect them in their villainy and whoever may partake of their plunder.
                                                              Lord Chatham.


                                  CXXVI.

                     SPEECH AGAINST THE AMERICAN WAR.

I cannot, my Lords, I will not, join in congratulation on misfortune and
disgrace. This, my Lords, is a perilous and tremendous moment. It is not a
time for adulation: the smoothness of flattery cannot save us in this
rugged and awful crisis. It is now necessary to instruct the throne in the
language of truth. We must, if possible, dispel the delusion and darkness
which envelop it, and display, in its full danger and genuine colors, the
ruin which is brought to our doors. Can ministers still presume to expect
support in their infatuation? Can parliament be so dead to its dignity and
duty, as to give their support to measures thus obtruded and forced upon
them? Measures, my Lords, which have reduced this late flourishing empire
to scorn and contempt. "But yesterday and Britain might have stood against
the world; now none so poor as to do her reverence." The people, whom we at
first despised as rebels, but whom we now acknowledge as enemies, are
abetted against us, supplied with every military store, have their
interests consulted, and their ambassadors entertained by our inveterate
enemy--and ministers do not, and dare not, interpose with dignity or
effect. The desperate state of our army abroad is in part known. No man
more highly esteems and honors the British troops than I do; I know their
virtues and their valor: I know they can achieve anything but
impossibilities; and I know that the conquest of British America is an
impossibility. You cannot, my Lords, you cannot conquer America. What is
your present situation there? We do not know the worst; but we know that in
three campaigns, we have done nothing, and suffered much. You may swell
every expense, accumulate every assistance, and extend your traffic to the
shambles of every German despot; your attempts will be forever vain and
impotent--doubly so, indeed, from this mercenary aid on which you rely; for
it irritates, to an incurable resentment, the minds of your adversaries, to
over run them with the mercenary sons of rapine and plunder, devoting them
and their possessions to the rapacity of hireling cruelty. If I were an
American, as I am an Englishman, while a foreign troop was landed in my
country, I never would lay down my arms--never, Never, NEVER!
                                                              Lord Chatham.


                                  CXXVII.

                 SPEECH AGAINST EMPLOYING INDIANS IN WAR.

But, my Lords, who is the man that, in addition to the disgraces and
mischiefs of our army, has dared to authorize and associate to our arms the
tomahawk and scalping-knife of the savage?--to call into civilized alliance
the wild and inhuman inhabitants of the woods?--to delegate to the
merciless Indian the defence of disputed rights, and to wage the horrors of
this barbarous war against our brethren? My Lords, these enormities cry
aloud for redress and punishment. But, my Lords, this barbarous measure has
been defended, not only on the principles of policy and necessity but also
on those of morality; "for it is perfectly justifiable," says Lord Suffolk,
"to use all the means which God and nature have put into our hands." I am
astonished!--I am shocked! to hear such principles confessed;--to hear them
avowed in this House, or in this country. My Lords, I did not intend to
encroach so much on your attention, but I cannot repress my indignation--I
feel myself impelled to speak. My Lords, we are called upon as members of
this House, as men, as Christians, to protest against such horrible
barbarity!--"That God and nature have put into our hands"! What ideas of
God and nature that noble lord may entertain, I know not; but I know, that
such detestable principles are equally abhorrent to religion and humanity.
What! to attribute the sacred sanction of God and nature to the massacres
of the Indian scalping-knife! to the cannibal savage, torturing, murdering,
devouring, drinking the blood of his mangled victims! Such notions shock
every precept of morality, every feeling of humanity, every sentiment of
honor. These abominable principles, and this more abominable avowal of
them, demand the most decisive indignation.

I call upon that right reverend, and this most learned bench, to vindicate
the religion of their God, to support the justice of their country. I call
upon the bishops to interpose the unsullied sanctity of their lawn; upon
the learned judges to interpose the enmity of their ermine,--to save us
from this pollution. I call upon the honor of your Lordships, to reverence
the dignity of our ancestors, and to maintain your own. I call upon the
spirit and humanity of my country, to vindicate the national character. I
invoke the genius of the constitution! From the tapestry that adorns these
walls, the immortal ancestor of this noble lord frowns with indignation at
the disgrace of his country. In vain did he defend the liberty, and
establish the religion of Britain, against the tyranny of Rome, if these
worse than popish cruelties, and inquisitorial practices, are endured among
us. To send forth the merciless cannibal, thirsting for blood!--against
whom?--your Protestant brethren! to lay waste their country, to desolate
their dwellings, and extirpate their race and name, by the aid and
instrumentality of these horrible hounds of war! Spain can no longer boast
preminence in barbarity. She armed herself with bloodhounds, to extirpate
the wretched natives of Mexico, and we improve on the inhuman example even
of Spanish cruelty; we turn loose these savage hell-hounds against our
brethren and countrymen in America, endeared to us by every tie that can
sanctify humanity. I again call upon your Lordships, and upon every order
of men in the State, to stamp upon this infamous procedure the indelible
stigma of the public abhorrence. And I again implore those holy prelates of
our religion to do away this iniquity; let them perform a lustration, to
purify the country from this deep and deadly sin. My Lords, I am old and
weak, and at present unable to say more; but my feelings and indignation
were too strong to have said less. I could not have slept this night in my
bed, nor even reposed my head upon my pillow, without giving vent to my
eternal abhorrence of such enormous and preposterous principles.
                                                              Lord Chatham.


                                 CXXVIII.

                            HONORABLE AMBITION.

I have been accused of ambition in presenting this measure--ambition,
inordinate ambition. If I had thought of myself only, I should have never
brought it forward. I know well the perils to which I expose myself: the
risk of alienating faithful and valued friends, with but little prospect of
making new ones, if any new ones could compensate for the loss of those we
have long tried and loved; and the honest misconception both of friends and
foes. Ambition? If I had listened to its soft and seducing whispers; if I
had yielded myself to the dictates of a cold, calculating, and prudential
policy, I would have stood still and unmoved. I might even have silently
gazed on the raging storm, enjoyed its loudest thunders, and left these who
are charged with the care of the vessel of State to conduct it as they
could.

I have been, heretofore, often unjustly accused of ambition. Low,
grovelling souls, who are utterly incapable of elevating themselves to the
higher and nobler duties of pure patriotism,--beings who, forever keeping
their own selfish ends in view, decide all public measures by their
presumed influence on their aggrandizement--judge me by the venal rule
which they prescribe to themselves. I have given to the winds those false
accusations, as I consign that which now impeaches my motives. I have no
desire for office, not even the highest. The most exalted is but a prison,
in which the incarcerated incumbent daily receives his cold, heartless
visitants, marks his weary hours, and is cut off from the practical
enjoyment of all the blessings of genuine freedom. I am no candidate for
any office in the gift of the people of these States, united or separated;
I never wish, never expect to be.

Pass this bill, tranquillize the country, restore confidence and affection
in the Union, and I am willing to go home to Ashland, and renounce public
service forever. I should there find, in its groves, under its shades, on
its lawns, midst my flocks and herds, in the bosom of my family, sincerity
and truth, attachment and fidelity, and gratitude which I have not always
found in the walks of public life.

Yes, I have ambition! but it is the ambition of being the humble
instrument, in the hands of Providence, to reconcile a divided people; once
more to revive concord and harmony in a distracted land,--the pleasing
ambition of contemplating the glorious spectacle of a free, united,
prosperous, and fraternal people.
                                                                   H. Clay.


                                  CXXIX.

                        THE NOBLEST PUBLIC VIRTUE.

There is a sort of courage, to which--I frankly confess it--I do not lay
claim; a boldness to which I dare not aspire; a valor which I cannot covet.
I cannot lay myself down in the way of the welfare and happiness of my
country. That, I cannot, I have not the courage to do. I cannot interpose
the power with which I may be invested,--a power conferred, not for my
personal benefit or aggrandizement, but for my country's good,--to check
her onward march to greatness and glory. I have not courage enough,--I am
too cowardly for that!

I would not, I dare not, lie down, and place my body across the path that
leads my country to prosperity and happiness. This is a sort of courage
widely different from that which a man may display in his private conduct
and personal relations. Personal or private courage is totally distinct
from that higher and nobler courage which prompts the patriot to offer
himself a voluntary sacrifice to his country's good.

Apprehensions of the imputation of the want of firmness sometimes impel us
to perform rash and inconsiderate acts. It is the greatest courage to be
able to bear the imputation of the want of courage. But pride, vanity,
egotism, so unaimiable and offensive in private life, are vices which
partake of the character of crimes in the conduct of public affairs. The
unfortunate victim of these passions cannot see beyond the little, petty,
contemptible circle of his own personal interest. All his thoughts are
withdrawn from his country, and concentrated on his consistency, his
firmness, himself.

The high, the exalted, the sublime emotions of a patriotism which, soaring
toward heaven, rises far above all mean, low, or selfish things, and is
absorbed by one soul-transporting thought of the good and glory of one's
country, are never felt in his impenetrable bosom. That patriotism which,
catching its inspiration from on high, and, leaving at an immeasurable
distance below all lesser, groveling, personal interests and
feelings,--animates and prompts to deeds of self-sacrifice, of valor, of
devotion and of death itself,--that is public virtue; that is the noblest,
the sublimest of all public virtues.
H. Clay.


CXXX.

PLEA FOR THE UNION.

At a moment when the White House itself is in danger of conflagration,
instead of all hands uniting to extinguish the flames, we are contending
about who shall be its next occupant. When a dreadful crevasse has
occurred, which threatens inundation and destruction to all around it, we
are contesting and disputing about the profits of an estate which is
threatened with total submersion.

Mr. President, it is passion, passion--party, party, and intemperance--that
is all I dread in the adjustment of the great questions which unhappily at
this time divide our distracted country. Sir, at this moment we have in the
legislative bodies of this Capitol and in the States, twenty-odd furnaces
in full blast, emitting heat and passion, and intemperance, and diffusing
them throughout the whole extent of this broad land. Two months ago all was
calm in comparison to the present moment. All now is uproar, confusion, and
menace to the existence of the Union, and to the happiness and safety of
this people. Sir, I implore Senators, I entreat them, by all that they
expect hereafter, and by all that is dear to them here below, to repress
the ardor of these passions, to look to their country to its interests, to
listen to the voice of reason.

Mr. President, I have said--what I solemnly believe--that the dissolution
of the Union and war are identical and inseparable; that they are
convertible terms. Such a war, too, as that would be, following the
dissolution of the Union! Sir, we may search the pages of history, and none
so furious, so bloody, so implacable, so exterminating, from the wars of
Greece down, including those of the Commonwealth of England, and the
revolution of France--none, none of them raged with such violence, or was
ever conducted with such bloodshed and enormities, as will that war which
shall follow that disastrous event--if that event ever happen--the
dissolution of the Union.

And what would be its termination? Standing armies and navies, draining the
revenues of each portion of the dissevered empire, would be created;
exterminating war would follow-not a war of two or three years, but of
interminable duration until some Philip or Alexander, some Csar or
Napoleon, would rise to cut the Gordian Knot, and solve the problem of the
capacity of man for self-government, and crush the liberties of both the
dissevered portions of this Union. Can you, sir, lightly contemplate these
consequences? Can you yield yourself to a torrent of passion, amidst
dangers which I have depicted in colors far short of what would be the
reality, if the event should ever happen?

I implore gentlemen--I adjure them from the South or the North, by all they
hold dear in this world--by all their love of liberty, by all their
veneration for their ancestors--by all their regard for posterity--by all
their gratitude to Him who has bestowed upon them such unnumbered
blessings--by all the duties which they owe to mankind, and all the duties
they owe to themselves--by all these considerations, I implore upon them to
pause--solemnly to pause--at the edge of the precipice before the fearful
and disastrous leap is taken into the yawning abyss below, from which none
who take it will ever return in safety.

And, finally, Mr. President, I implore, as the best blessing which Heaven
can bestow upon me on earth, that if the direful and sad event of the
dissolution of the Union shall happen, I may not survive to behold the
melancholy and heart-rending spectacle.
                                                                   H. Clay.


                                  CXXXI.

                              NATIONAL GLORY.

We are asked, what have we gained by the war? I have shown that we have
lost nothing, either in rights, territory, or honor; nothing, for which we
ought to have contended, according to the principles of the gentlemen on
the other side, or according to our own. Have we gained nothing by the war?
Let any man look at the degraded condition of the country before the
war,--the scorn of the universe, the contempt of ourselves, and tell me if
we have gained nothing by the war. What is our present situation?
Respectability and character abroad; security and confidence at home. If we
have not obtained, in the opinion of some, the full measure of retribution,
our character and Constitution are placed on a solid basis, never to be
shaken.

The glory acquired by our gallant tars on the sea, by our Jacksons and our
Browns on the land is that nothing? true we had our vicissitudes: there are
humiliating events which the patriot cannot review without deep regret; but
the great account when it comes to be balanced, will be found vastly in our
favor. Is there a man who would obliterate from the proud pages of our
history, the brilliant achievements of Jackson, Brown, and Scott, and the
host of heroes on land and sea whom I cannot enumerate? Is there a man who
could not desire a participation in the national glory acquired by the war?
Yes, national glory, which, however the expression may be condemned by
some, must be cherished by every genuine patriot.

What do I mean by national glory? Glory such as Hull, Jackson, and Perry
have acquired. And are gentlemen insensible to their deeds, to the value of
them in animating the country in the hour of peril hereafter? Did the
battle of Thermopyl preserve Greece but once? While the Mississippi
contributes to bear the tributes of the Iron Mountains and the Alleghenies
to her delta, and to the Gulf of Mexico, the eighth of January shall be
remembered, and the glory of that day shall stimulate future patriots, and
nerve the arms of unborn freemen, in driving the presumptuous invader from
our country's soil.

Gentlemen may boast of their insensibility to feelings inspired by the
contemplation of such events. But I would ask, does the recollection of
Bunker's Hill, Saratoga, and Yorktown, afford no pleasure? Every act of
noble sacrifice of the country, every instance of patriotic devotion to her
cause, has its beneficial influence. A nation's character is the sum of its
splendid deeds; they constitute one common patrimony, the country's
inheritance. They awe foreign powers; they arouse and animate our own
people. I love true glory. It is this sentiment which ought to be
cherished; and, in spite of cavils, and sneers, and attempts to put it
down, it will rise triumphant, and finally conduct this nation to that
height, to which nature and nature's God have destined it.
                                                                   H. Clay.


                                  CXXXII.

                       BRUTUS ON THE DEATH OF CSAR.

Romans, countrymen, and lovers! Hear me for my cause; and be silent, that
you may hear. Believe me for mine honor; and have respect to mine honor,
that you may believe. Censure me in your wisdom; and awake your senses,
that you may be the better judge. If there be any in this assembly,--any
dear friend of Csar's--to him I say, that Brutus' love to Csar was not
less than his. If, then, that friend demand why Brutus rose against Csar,
this is my answer: Not that I loved Csar less, but that I loved Rome more.
Had you rather Csar were living, and die all slaves; than that Csar were
dead, to live all freemen? As Csar loved me, I weep for him; as he was
fortunate, I rejoice at it; as he was valiant, I honor him; but as he was
ambitious, I slew him. There are tears for his love, joy for his fortune,
honor for his valor, and death for his ambition.

Who is here so base, that would be a bondman? If any, speak; for him have I
offended. Who is here so rude, that would not be a Roman? If any, speak;
for him have I offended. Who is here so vile, that will not love his
country? If any, speak; for him have I offended. I pause for a reply,---

None? Then none have I offended. I have done no more to Csar than you
shall do to Brutus. The question of his death is enrolled in the Capitol;
his glory not extenuated, wherein he was worthy; nor his offences enforced,
for which he suffered death.

Here comes his body, mourned by Mark Antony, who, though he had no hand in
his death, shall receive the benefit of his dying, a place in the
commonwealth; as which of you shall not? With this I depart;--that, as I
slew my best lover for the good of Rome, I have the same dagger for myself,
when it shall please my country to need my death.
                                                               Shakespeare.


                                 CXXXIII.

                     HAMLET'S ADDRESS TO THE PLAYERS.

Speak the speech, I pray you, as I pronounced it to you, grippingly on the
tongue; but if you mouth it, as many of our players do, I had as life the
town-crier spoke my lines. Nor do not saw the air too much with your hand,
thus; but use all gently; for in the very torrent, tempest, and (as I may
say) whirlwind of your passion, you must acquire and beget a temperance,
that may give it smoothness. O, it offends me to the soul, to hear a
robtustious periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to tatters, to very rags,
to split the ears of the groundlings, we for the most part, are capable of
nothing but inexplicable dumb shows and noise: I would have such a fellow
whipped for o'erdoing Termagant; it out-herods Herod. I pray you, avoid it.

Be not too tame neither, but let your own discretion be your tutor: suit
the action to the word, the word to the action; with this special
observance, that you o'erstep not the modesty of nature; for anything so
overdone is from the purpose of playing, whose end, both at the first and
now, was, and is, to hold, as it were, the mirror up to nature; to show
virtue her own feature, scorn her own image, and the very age and body of
the time his form and pressure. Now this overdone, or come tardy off,
though it make the unskilful laugh, cannot but make the judicious grieve;
the censure of which one, must in your allowance o'erweigh a whole theatre
of others. O, there be players, that I have seen play,--and heard others
praise, and that highly,--not to speak it profanely, that, neither having
the accent of Christians, nor the gait of Christian, Pagan, nor man, have
so strutted and bellowed, that I have thought some of Nature's journeymen
had made men, and not made them well, they imitated humanity so abominably.
                                                               Shakespeare.


                                  CXXXIV.

                  FALSTAFF'S DESCRIPTION OF HIS SOLDIERS.

If I be not ashamed of my soldiers, I am a soused gurnet. I have misused
the king's press outrageously. I have got, in exchange of an hundred and
fifty soldiers, three hundred and odd pounds. I press me none but good
householders, yeoman's sons; inquire me out contracted bachelors, such as
have been asked twice on the banns; such a commodity of warm slaves, as had
as life hear the devil as a drum; such as fear the report of a culverin
worse than a struck deer or a hurt wild duck. I pressed me none but such
toasts in butter, with hearts in their breasts no bigger than pins' heads;
and they bought out their services; and now my whole charge consists of
slaves as ragged as Lazarus in the painted cloth, where the glutton's dogs
licked his sores; discarded, unjust serving-men, younger sons to younger
brothers, revolted tapsters, and hostlers trade-fallen, the cankers of a
calm world and a long peace; and such have I to fill up the rooms of them
that have bought out their services, that you would think, that I had an
hundred and fifty tattered prodigals, lately come from swine-keeping, from
eating draff and husks. A mad fellow met me on the way, and told me I had
unloaded all the gibbets, and pressed the dead bodies. No eye hath seen
such scarecrows. I'll not march through Coventry with them, that's flat.
Nay, and the villains march wide betwixt the legs, as if--they had gyves
on; for, indeed I had the most of them out of prison. There's but a shirt
and a half in all my company; and the half-shirt it is two napkins tacked
together, and thrown over the shoulders like a herald's coat without
sleeves; and the shirt, to say the truth, stolen from my host of St.
Albans, or the red-nosed innkeeper of Daintry. But that's all one; they'll
find linen enough on every hedge.
                                                               Shakespeare.


                                  CXXXV.

                          SOLILOQUY ON CHARACTER.

As young as I am, I have observed these three swashers. I am boy to them
all three: but all they three, though they would serve me, could not be
man to me; for, indeed, three such antics do not amount to a man. For
Bardolph,--he is white-livered, and red-faced; by the means whereof 'a
faces it out, but fights not. For Pistol,--he hath a killing tongue, and a
quiet sword; by the means whereof 'a breaks words, and keeps whole weapons.
For Nym,--he hath heard, that men of a few words are the best men; and
therefore he scorns to say his prayers, lest 'a should be thought a coward;
but his few bad words are matched with as few good deeds; for 'a never
broke any man's head but his own, and that was against a post, when he was
drunk. They will steal anything, and call it--purchase. Bardolph stole a
lute-case; bore it twelve leagues, and sold it for three half-pence. Nym
and Bardolph are sworn brothers in filching; and in Calais they stole a
fire-shovel; I knew, by that piece of service, the men would carry coals.
They would have me as familiar with men's pockets, as their gloves or their
handkerchiefs; which makes much against my manhood, if I should take from
another's pocket, to put into mine; for it is plain pocketing up of wrongs.
I must leave them, and seek some better service: their villainy goes
against my weak stomach, and therefore I must cast it up.
                                                               Shakespeare.


                                  CXXXVI.

                            DEATH OF HAMILTON.

A short time since, and he who is the occasion of our sorrows, was the
ornament of his country. He stood on an eminence; and glory covered him.
From that eminence he has fallen--suddenly, forever, fallen. His
intercourse with the living world is now ended; and those who would
hereafter find him must seek him in the grave. There, cold and lifeless,
and the heart which just now was the seat of friendship. There, dim and
sightless is the eye, whose radiant and enlivening orb beamed with
intelligence; and there, closed forever are those lips, on whose persuasive
accents we have so often and so lately hung with transport.

From the darkness which rests upon his tomb there proceeds, methinks, a
light in which it is clearly seen that those gaudy objects which men pursue
are only phantoms. In this light how dimly shines the splendor of
victory--how humble appears the majesty of grandeur. The bubble which
seemed to have so much solidity has burst; and we again see that all below
the sun is vanity.

True, the funeral eulogy has been pronounced. The sad and solemn procession
has moved. The badge of mourning has already been decreed, and presently
the sculptured marble will lift up its front, proud to perpetuate the name
of Hamilton, and rehearse to the passing traveller his virtues.

Just tributes of respect! And to the living useful. But to him, mouldering
in his narrow and humble habitation, what are they? How vain! how
unavailing! Approach, and behold--while I lift from his sepulchre its
covering. Ye admirers of his neatness, ye emulous of his talents and his
fame, approach, and behold him now. How pale! how silent! No martial bands
admire the adroitness of his movements. No fascinated throng weep--and
melt--and tremble at his eloquence!--Amazing change. A shroud! a coffin! a
narrow subterraneous cabin! This is all that now remains of Hamilton! And
is this all that remains of him?--During a life so transitory, what lasting
monument then can our fondest hopes erect?

My brethren! we stand on the borders of an awful gulf, which is swallowing
up all things human. And is there, amidst this universal wreck, nothing
stable, nothing abiding, notating immortal, on which poor, frail, dying
man can fasten?

Ask the hero, ask the statesman, whose wisdom you have been accustomed to
revere, and he will tell you. He will tell you, did I say? He has already
told you, from his death-bed, and his illumined spirit still whispers from
the heavens, with well-known eloquence, the solemn admonition.

"Mortals! hastening to the tomb, and once the companions of my pilgrimage,
take warning and avoid my errors--Cultivate the virtues I have
recommended--Choose the Saviour I have chosen--Live disinterestedly--Live
for immortality; and would you rescue anything from final dissolution,
lay it up in God."
                                                                  Dr. Nott.


                                 CXXXVII.

                       INVECTIVE AGAINST MR. FLOOD.

It is not the slander of an evil tongue that can defame me. I maintain my
reputation in public and in private life. No man who has not a bad
character can ever say that I deceived; no country can call me cheat. But I
will suppose such a public character. I will suppose such a man to have
existence. I will begin with his character in its political cradle, and I
will follow him to the last state of political dissolution. I will suppose
him, in the first stage of his life, to have been intemperate; in the
second, to have been corrupt; and in the last, seditious; that after an
envenomed attack upon the persons and measures of a succession of viceroys,
and after much declamation against their illegalities and their profusion,
he took office, and became a supporter of government when the profusion of
ministers had greatly increased, and their crimes multiplied beyond
example. At such a critical moment, I will suppose this gentleman to be
corrupted by a great sinecure office to muzzle his declamation, to swallow
his invective, to give his assent and vote to the ministers, and to become
a supporter of government, its measures, its embargo, and its American war.
I will suppose, that with respect to the Constitution of his country that
part, for instance, which regarded the Mutiny Bill, when a clause of
reference was introduced, whereby the articles of war, which were, or
hereafter might be, passed in England, should be current in Ireland without
the interference of Parliament--when such a clause was in view, I will
suppose this gentleman to have absconded. Again, when the bill was made
perpetual, I will suppose him again to have absconded; but a year and a
half after the bill had passed then I will suppose this gentleman to have
come forward, and to say that your Constitution had been destroyed by the
Perpetual Bill.

With respect to commerce, I will suppose this gentleman to have supported
an embargo which lay on the country for three years, and almost destroyed
it; and when an address in 1778, to open her trade, was propounded, to
remain silent and inactive. In relation to three fourths of our
fellow-subjects, the Catholics, when a bill was introduced to grant them
rights of property and religion, I will suppose this gentleman to have come
forth to give his negative to their pretensions.

With regard to the liberties of America, which were inseparable from ours,
I will suppose this gentleman to have been an enemy, decided and
unreserved; that he voted against her liberty, and voted, moreover, for an
address to send four thousand Irish troops to cut the throats of the
Americans; that he called these butchers "armed negotiators," and stood
with a metaphor in his mouth, and a bribe in his pocket, a champion against
the rights of America, the only hope of Ireland, and the only refuge of the
liberties of mankind. Thus defective in every relationship, whether to
Constitution, commerce, or toleration, I will suppose this man to have
added much private improbity to public crimes; that his probity was like
his patriotism, and his honor on a level with his oath.

He loves to deliver panegyrics on himself. I will interrupt him, and say,
"Sir, you are mistaken if you think that your talents have been as great as
your life has been reprehensible. You began your parliamentary career with
an acrimony and personality which could have been justified only by a
supposition of virtue. After a rank and clamorous opposition you became, on
a sudden, silent; you were silent for seven years; you were silent on the
greatest questions; and you were silent for money! You supported the
unparalleled profusion and jobbing of Lord Harcourt's scandalous
ministry--the address to support the American war--the other address to
send four thousand men, which you had yourself declared to be necessary for
the defence of Ireland, to fight against the liberties of America, to which
you had declared yourself a friend. You, sir, who manufacture stage-thunder
against Mr. Eden for his anti-American principles--you, sir, whom it
pleases to chant a hymn to the immortal Hampden--you, sir, approved of the
tyranny exercised against America; and you, sir, voted four thousand Irish
troops to cut the throats of the Americans fighting for their freedom,
fighting for your freedom, fighting for the great principle, Liberty! But
you found, at last (and this should be an eternal lesson to men of your
craft and cunning), that the King; had only dishonored you; the court had
bought, but would not trust you; and, having voted for the worst measures,
you remained, for seven years, the creature of salary, without the
conscience of government. Mortified at the discovery, and stung by
disappointment, you betake yourself to the sad expedients of duplicity. You
try the sorry game of a trimmer in your progress to the acts of an
incendiary. You give no honest support either to the government or the
people; observing, with regard to both prince and people, the most
impartial treachery and desertion, you justify the suspicion of your
Sovereign, by betraying the government, as you had sold the people, until,
at last, by this hollow conduct, and for some other steps, the result of
mortified ambition, being dismissed, and another person put in your place,
you fly to the ranks of the Volunteers and canvas, for mutiny.

"Such has been your conduct; and at such conduct every order of your
fellow-subjects have a right to exclaim! The merchant may say to you--the
constitutionality may say to you--the American may say to you--and I, I now
say, and say to your beard, sir,--'you are not an honest man!'"
                                                                H. Gratton.


                                 CXXXVIII.

                       GRATTAN'S REPLY TO MR. CORRY.

Has the gentleman done? Has he completely done? He was unparliamentary from
the beginning to the end of his speech. There was scarce a word he uttered
that was not a violation of the privileges of the House. But I did not call
him to order, why? because the limited talents of some men render it
impossible for them to be severe without being unparliamentary. But before
I sit down, I shall show him how to be severe and parliamentary at the same
time.

On any other occasion, I should think myself justifiable in treating with
silent contempt anything which might fall from that honorable member; but
there are times, when the insignificance of the accuser is lost in the
magnitude of the accusation. I know the difficulty the honorable gentleman
labored under when he attacked me, conscious that, on a comparative view of
our characters, public and private, there is nothing he could say which
would injure me. The public would not believe the charge. I despise the
falsehood. If such a charge were made by an honest man, I would answer it
in the manner I shall do before I sit down. But I shall first reply to it
when not made by an honest man.

The right honorable gentleman has called me "an unimpeached traitor." I ask
why not "traitor," unqualified by any epithet? I will tell him; it was
because he durst not. It was the act of a coward, who raises his arm to
strike, but has not courage to give the blow. I will not call him villain,
because it would be unparliamentary, and he is a privy counsellor. I will
not call him fool, because he happens to be chancellor of the exchequer.
But I say he is one who has abused the privilege of Parliament, and the
freedom of debate, by uttering language, which, if spoken out of the House,
I should answer only with a blow. I care not how high his situation, how
low his character, how contemptible his speech; whether a privy counsellor
or a parasite, my answer would be a blow.

He has charged me with being connected with the rebels. The charge is
utterly, totally and meanly false. Does the honorable gentleman rely on the
report of the House of Lords for the foundation of his assertion? If he
does, I can prove to the committee there was a physical impossibility of
that report being true. But I scorn to answer any man for my conduct,
whether he be a political coxcomb, or whether he brought himself into power
by a false glare of courage or not.

I have returned, not as the right honorable member has said, to raise
another storm--I have returned to discharge an honorable debt of gratitude
to my country, that conferred a great reward for past services, which, I am
proud to say, was not greater than my desert. I have returned to protect
that Constitution, of which I was the parent and founder, from the
assassination of such men as the right honorable gentleman and his unworthy
associates. They are corrupt,--they are seditious,--and they, at this very
moment, are in a conspiracy against their country. I have returned to
refute a libel, as false as it is malicious, given to the public under the
appellation of a report of the committee of the Lords. Here I stand ready
for impeachment or trial. I dare accusation. I defy the honorable
gentleman; I defy the government; I defy their whole phalanx; let them come
forth. I tell the ministers, I will neither give quarter nor take it. I am
here to lay the shattered remains of my constitution on the floor of this
House, in defence of the liberties of my country.


                                  CXXXIX.

                 SPEECH OF TITUS QUINCTIUS TO THE ROMANS.

You have seen it--posterity will know it! in the fourth consulship of Titus
Quinctius, our enemies came in arms, to the very gates of Rome,--and went
away unchastised! But who are they that our dastardly enemies thus
despise?--the consuls, or you, Romans? If we are in fault, depose us, or
punish us yet more severely. If you are to blame--may neither gods nor men
punish your faults! only may you repent!--No, Romans, the confidence of our
enemies is not owing to their courage, or to their belief of your
cowardice; they have been too often vanquished, not to know both themselves
and you. Discord, discord is the ruin of this city! The eternal disputes,
between the senate and the people, are the sole cause of our misfortunes.
While we set no bounds to our dominion, nor you to your liberty; while you
impatiently endure Patrician magistrates, and we Plebeian; our enemies take
heart, grow elated, and presumptuous. In the name of the immortal gods,
what is it, Romans, you would have? You desired Tribunes; for the sake of
peace, we granted them. You were eager to have Decemvirs; we consented to
their creation. You grew weary of these Decemvirs; we obliged them to
abdicate. Your hatred pursued them when reduced to private men; and we
suffered you to put to death, or banish, Patricians of the first rank in
the republic. You insisted upon the restoration of the Tribuneship; we
yielded; we quietly saw Consuls of your own faction elected. You have the
protection of your Tribunes, and the privilege of appeal; the Patricians
are subjected to the decrees of the Commons. Under pretence of equal and
impartial laws, you have invaded our rights; and we have suffered it, and
we still suffer it. When shall we see an end of discord? When shall we have
one interest, and one common country? Victorious and triumphant, you show
less temper than we, under defeat. When you are to contend with us, you can
seize the Aventine hill, you can possess yourselves of the Mons Sacer.

The enemy is at our gates,--the squiline is near being taken,--and nobody
stirs to hinder it! But against us you are valiant, against us you can arm
with diligence. Come on, then, besiege the senate-house, make a camp of the
forum, fill the jails with our chief nobles, and when you have achieved
these glorious exploits, then, at last, sally out at the squiline gate,
with the same fierce spirits, against the enemy. Does your resolution fail
you for this? Go then, and behold from our walls your lands ravaged, your
houses plundered and in flames, the whole country laid waste with fire and
sword. Have you anything here to repair these damages? Will the Tribunes
make up your losses to you? They will give you words as many as you please;
bring impeachments in abundance against the prime men in the State; heap
laws upon laws; assemblies you shall have without end; but will any of you
return the richer from these assemblies? Extinguish, O Romans, these fatal
divisions; generously break this cursed enchantment, which keeps you buried
in a scandalous inaction. Open your eyes and consider the management of
those ambitious men, who, to make themselves powerful in their party, study
nothing but how they may foment divisions in the commonwealth.


                                   CXL.

                           THE BOSTON MASSACRE.

Tell me, ye bloody butchers! ye villains high and low! ye wretches who
contrived, as well as you who executed, the inhuman deed! do you not feel
the goads and stings of conscious guilt pierce through your savage bosoms?
Though some of you may think yourselves exalted to such a height that bids
defiance to the arms of human justice, and others shroud yourselves beneath
the mask of hypocrisy, and build your hopes of safety on the low arts of
cunning, chicanery, and falsehood; yet do you not sometimes feel the
gnawings of that worm which never dies? Do not the injured shades of
Maverick, Gray, Caldwell, Attucks, and Carr, attend you in your solitary
walks, arrest you even in the midst of your debaucheries, and fill even
your dreams with terror?

Ye dark, designing knaves! ye murderers! parricides! how dare you tread
upon the earth which has drank in the blood of slaughtered innocents, shed
by your wicked hands? How dare you breathe that air which wafted to the ear
of Heaven the groans of those who fell a sacrifice to your accursed
ambition? But, if the laboring earth does not expand her jaws; if the air
you breathe is not commissioned to be the minister of death; yet hear it,
and tremble! the eye of Heaven penetrates the darkest chambers of the
soul; traces the leading clew through all the labyrinths which your
industrious folly has devised; and you, however you may have screened
yourselves from human eyes, must be arraigned, must lift your hands, red
with the blood of those whose deaths you have procured, at the tremendous
bar of God.
                                                              John Hancock.


                                   CXLI.

                        ENTERPRISE OF NEW ENGLAND.

As to the wealth, Mr. Speaker, which the colonies have drawn from the sea
by their fisheries, you had all that matter fully opened at your bar. You
surely thought those acquisitions of value; for they seemed even to excite
your envy; and yet the spirit by which that enterprising employment has
been exercised, ought rather, in my opinion, to have raised your esteem and
admiration. And pray, sir, what in the world is equal to it? Pass by the
other parts, and look at the manner in which the people of New England have
of late carried on the whale fishery. Whilst we follow them among the
tumbling mountains of ice, and behold them penetrating into the deepest
frozen recesses of Hudson's Bay and Davis's Straits, whilst we are looking
for them beneath the arctic circle, we hear that they have pierced into the
opposite region of polar cold, that they are at the antipodes, and engaged
under the frozen serpent of the south. Falkland island, which seemed too
remote and romantic an object for the grasp of national ambition, is but a
stage and resting-place in the progress of their victorious industry.

Nor is the equinoctial heat more discouraging to them than the accumulated
winter of both the poles. We know that whilst some of them draw the line
and strike the harpoon on the coast of Africa, others run the longitude,
and pursue their gigantic game along the coast of Brazil. No sea but what
is vexed by their fisheries. No climate that is not witness to their toils.
Neither the perseverance of Holland, nor the activity of France, nor the
dexterous and firm sagacity of English enterprise, ever carried this most
perilous mode of hardy industry to the extent to which it has been pushed
by this recent people; a people who are still, as it were, but in the
gristle, and not yet hardened into the bone of manhood.

When I contemplate these things; when I know that the colonies in general
owe little or nothing to any care of ours, and that they are not squeezed
into this happy form by the constrains of watchful and suspicious
government, but that through a wise and salutary neglect, a generous nature
has been suffered to take her own way to perfection; when I reflect upon
these effects, when I see how profitable they have been to us, I feel all
the pride of power sink, and all presumption in the wisdom of human
contrivances melt and die away within me. My rigor relents. I pardon
something to the spirit of liberty.
                                                                  E. Burke.


                                  CXLII.

                   THE RIGHT OF ENGLAND TO TAX AMERICA.

But Mr. Speaker, "we have a right to tax America." Oh, inestimable right!
Oh, wonderful, transcendent right! the assertion of which has cost this
country thirteen provinces, six islands, one hundred thousand lives, and
seventy millions of money. Oh, invaluable right! for the sake of which we
have sacrificed our rank among nations, our importance abroad, and our
happiness at home! Oh, right! more dear to us than our existence, which has
already cost us so much, and which seems likely to cost us our all.
Infatuated man! Miserable and undone country! not to know that the claim of
right, without the power of enforcing it, is nugatory and idle. We have a
right to tax America, the noble lord tells us therefore we ought to tax
America. This is the profound logic which comprises the whole chain of his
reasoning.

Not inferior to this was the wisdom of him who resolved to shear the wolf.
What, shear a wolf! Have you considered the resistance, the difficulty, the
danger of the attempt? No, says the madman, I have considered nothing but
the right. Man has a right of dominion over the beasts of the forest; and
therefore I will shear the wolf.

How wonderful that a nation could be thus deluded! But the noble lord deals
in cheats and delusions. They are the daily traffic of his invention; and
he will continue to play to his cheats on this House, so long as he thinks
them necessary to his purpose, and so long as he has money enough at
command to bribe gentlemen to pretend that they believe him. But a black
and bitter day of reckoning will surely come; and whenever that day comes,
I trust I shall be able, by a parliamentary impeachment, to bring upon the
heads of the authors of our calamities the punishment they deserve.
                                                                  E. Burke.


                                  CXLIII.

                          DESCRIPTION OF JUNIUS.

Sir,--How comes this Junius to have broken through the cobwebs of the law,
and to range uncontrolled, unpunished, through the land? The myrmidons of
the court have been long, and are still pursuing him in vain. They will not
spend their time upon me, or you, or you. No! they disdain such vermin,
when the mighty boar of the forest, that has broken through all their
toils, is before them. But what will all their efforts avail? No sooner has
he wounded one than he lays down another dead at his feet. For my part,
when I saw his attack upon the king, I own my blood ran cold. I thought he
had ventured too far, and there was an end of his triumphs. Not that he had
not asserted many truths:--Yes, sir, there are in that composition many
bold truths, by which a wise prince might profit. It was the rancor and
venom, with which I was struck. In these aspects the North-Briton is as
much inferior to him, as in strength, wit, and judgment.

But while I expected, in this daring flight, his final ruin and fall,
behold him rising still higher, and coming down souse upon both Houses of
Parliament. Yes, he did make you his quarry, and you still bleed from the
wounds of his talons. You crouched, and still crouch, beneath his rage. Nor
has he dreaded the terrors of your brow, sir; he has attacked even you--he
has--and I believe you have no reason to triumph in the encounter. In
short, after carrying away our royal eagle in his pounces, and dashing him
against a rock, he has laid you prostrate. King, lords and commons, are but
the sport of his fury.

Were he a member of this House, what might not be expected from his
knowledge, his firmness, and integrity? He would be easily known by his
contempt of all danger, by his penetration, by his vigor. Nothing would
escape his vigilance and activity. Bad ministers could conceal nothing from
his sagacity; nor could promises nor threats induce him to conceal anything
from the public.
                                                                  E. Burke.


                                  CXLIV.

                            TRUE STATESMANSHIP.

The true lawgiver ought to have a heart full of sensibility. He ought to
love and respect his kind, and to fear himself. It may be allowed to his
temperament to catchy his ultimate object with an intuitive glance, but his
movements toward it ought to be deliberate. Political arrangement, as it is
a work for social ends, is to be wrought only by social means. There mind
must conspire with mind. Time is required to produce all the good we aim
at. Our patience will achieve more than our force. If I might venture to
appeal to what is so much out of fashion in Paris, I mean to experience, I
should tell you that in my course I have known, and, according to my
measure, have coperated with great men; and I have never yet seen any plan
which has not been mended by the observations of those who were much
inferior in understanding to the person who took the lead in business. By a
slow but well-sustained progress the effect of each step is watched; the
good or ill success of the first gives light to us in the second; and so,
from light to light, we are conducted with safety through the whole series.
We see that the parts of the system do not clash. The evils latent in the
most promising contrivances are provided for as they arise. One advantage
is as little as possible sacrificed to another. We compensate, we
reconcile, we balance. We are enabled to unite into a consistent whole the
various anomalies and contending principles that are found in the minds and
affairs of men. From hence arises not an excellence in simplicity but one
far superior, an excellence in composition. Where the great interests of
mankind are concerned through a long succession of generations, that
succession ought to be admitted into some share in the councils which are
so deeply to affect them. If justice requires this, the work itself
requires the aid of more minds than one age can furnish. It is from this
view of things that the best legislators have been often satisfied with
the establishment of some sure, solid, and ruling principle in government;
a power like to that which some of the philosophers have called a plastic
nature; and having fixed the principle, they have left it afterward to its
own operation.
                                                                  E. Burke.


                                   CXLV.

              THE QUEEN OF FRANCE AND THE SPIRIT OF CHIVALRY.

I hear, and I rejoice to hear, that the great lady, the other object of
the triumph, has borne that day (one is interested that beings made for
suffering should suffer well), and that she bears all the succeeding
days--that she bears the imprisonment of her husband, and her own
captivity, and the exile of her friends, and the insulting adulation of
addresses, and the whole weight of her accumulated wrongs, with a serene
patience, in a manner suited to her rank and race and becoming the
offspring of a sovereign distinguished for her piety and her courage; that,
like her, she has lofty sentiments; that she feels with the dignity of a
Roman matron; that in the last extremity she will save herself; and that,
if she must fall, she will fall by no ignoble hand.

It is now sixteen or seventeen years since I saw the Queen of France, then
the dauphiness, at Versailles; and surely never lighted on this orb, which
she hardly seemed to touch, a more delightful vision. I saw her just above
the horizon, decorating and cheering the elevated sphere she just began to
move in, glittering like the morning star full of life and splendor and
joy. Oh! what a revolution! and what a heart must I have, to contemplate,
without emotion, that elevation and that fall! Little did I dream, when she
added titles of veneration to those of enthusiastic, distant, respectful
love, that she should ever be obliged to carry the sharp antidote against
disgrace concealed in that bosom; little did I dream that I should have
lived to see such disasters fallen upon her in a nation of gallant men, in
a nation of men of honor and of cavaliers. I thought ten thousand swords
must have leaped from their scabbards to avenge even a look that threatened
her with insult? But the age of chivalry is gone; that of sophisters,
economists and calculators has succeeded; and the glory of Europe is
extinguished forever. Never, never more shall we behold that generous
loyalty to rank and sex, that proud submission, that dignified obedience,
that subordination of the heart, which kept alive, even in servitude itself
the spirit of an exalted freedom.

The unbought grace of life, the cheap defence of nations, the nurse of
manly sentiment and heroic enterprise is gone! It is gone, that sensibility
of principle, that chastity of honor, which felt a stain like a wound,
which inspired courage while it mitigated ferocity, which ennobled whatever
it touched, and under which vice itself lost half its evil by losing all
its grossness.
                                                                  E. Burke.


                                  CXLVI.

              PERORATION OF OPENING SPEECH AGAINST HASTINGS.

In the name of the Commons of England, I charge all this villany upon
Warren Hastings, in this last moment of my application to you.

My Lords, what is it that we want here to a great act of national justice?
Do we want a cause, my Lords? You care the cause of oppressed princes, of
undone women of the first rank, of desolated provinces, and of wasted
kingdoms.

Do you want a criminal, my Lords? When was there so much iniquity ever laid
to the charge of any one? No, my Lords, you must not look to punish any
other such delinquent from India. Warren Hastings has not left substance
enough in India to nourish such another delinquent.

My Lords, is it a prosecutor you want? You have before you the Commons of
Great Britain as prosecutors; and I believe my Lords, that the sun, in his
beneficent progress round the world, does not behold a more glorious sight
than that of men, separated from a remote people by the material bounds and
barriers of nature, united by the bond of a social and moral community--all
the Commons of England resenting, as their own, the indignities and
cruelties, that are offered to all the people of India.

Do we want a tribunal? My Lords, no example of antiquity, nothing in the
modern world, nothing in the range of human imagination, can supply us with
a tribunal like this. My Lords, here we see virtually, in the mind's eye,
that sacred majesty of the Crown, under whose authority you sit and whose
power you exercise.

We have here all the branches of the royal family, in a situation between
majesty and subjection, between the sovereign and the subject--offering a
pledge, in that situation, for the support of the rights of the Crown and
the liberties of the people, both which extremities they touch.

My Lords, we have a great hereditary peerage here; those who have their own
honor, the honor of their ancestors, and of their posterity, to guard, and
who will justify as they always have justified, that provision in the
Constitution by which justice is made an hereditary office.

My Lords, we have here a new nobility, who have risen, and exalted
themselves by various merits, by great civil and military services, which
have extended the fame of this country from the rising to the setting sun.

My Lords, you have here, also, the lights of our religion; you have the
bishops of England. My Lords, you have that true image of the primitive
Church in its ancient form, in its ancient ordinances, purified from the
superstitions and the vices which a long succession of ages will bring upon
the best institutions.

My Lords, these are the securities which we have in all the constituent
parts of the body of this House. We know them, we reckon, we rest upon
them, and commit safely the interests of India and of humanity into your
hands. Therefore, it is with confidence, that, ordered by the Commons,

I impeach Warren Hastings, Esquire, of high crimes and misdemeanors,

I impeach him in the name of the Commons of Great Britain, in Parliament
assembled, whose parliamentary trust he has betrayed.

I impeach him in the name of all the Commons of Great Britain, whose
national character he has dishonored.

I impeach him in the name of the people of India, whose laws, rights, and
liberties he has subverted, whose property he has destroyed, whose country
he has laid waste and desolate.

I impeach him in the name, and by virtue of those eternal laws of Justice
which he has violated.

I impeach him in the name of human nature itself, which he has cruelly
outraged, injured and oppressed, in both sexes, in every age, rank,
situation and condition of life.
                                                                  E. Burke.


                                  CXLVII.

              PERORATION OF CLOSING SPEECH AGAINST HASTINGS.

My Lords, at this awful close, in the name of the Commons, and surrounded
by them, I attest the retiring, I attest the advancing generations between
which, as a link in the great chain of eternal order, we stand.--We call
this Nation, we call the world to witness, that the Commons have shrunk
from no labor; that we have been guilty of no prevarication, that we have
made no compromise with crime; that we have not feared any odium
whatsoever, in the long warfare which we have carried on with the
crimes--with the vices--with the exorbitant wealth--with the enormous and
overpowering influence of Eastern corruption.

My Lords, your House yet stands; it stands as a great edifice; but let me
say, that it stands in ruins that have been made by the greatest moral
earthquake that ever convulsed and shattered this globe of ours. My Lords,
it has pleased Providence to place us in such a state that we appear every
moment to be on the verge of some great mutations. There is one thing, and
one thing only, which defies all mutation; that which existed before the
world, and will survive the fabric of the world itself,--I mean justice;
that justice which, emanating from the Divinity, has a place in the breast
of every one of us, given us for our guide in regard to ourselves, and with
regard to others, and which will stand, after this globe is burned to
ashes, our advocate or our accuser before the great Judge, when He comes to
call upon us for the tenor of a well-spent life.

My Lords, the Commons will share in every fate with yon? Lordships; there
is nothing sinister which can happen to you, in which we shall not be
involved; and, if it should so happen, that we shall be subjected to some
of those frightful changes which we have seen; if it should happen that
your Lordships, stripped of all the decorous distinctions of human society,
should, by hands at once base and cruel, be led to those scaffolds and
machines of murder upon which great kings and glorious queens have shed
their blood, amidst the prelates, amidst the nobles, amidst the
magistrates, who supported their thrones,--may you in those moments feel
that consolation which I am persuaded they felt in the critical moments of
their dreadful agony!

My Lords, there is a consolation, and a great consolation it is, which
often happens to oppressed virtue and fallen dignity; it often happens that
the very oppressors and persecutors themselves are forced to bear testimony
in its favor. The Parliament of Paris had an origin very, very similar to
that of the great court before which I stand; the Parliament of Paris
continued to have a great resemblance to it in its Constitution, even to
its fall; the Parliament of Paris, my Lords,--was; it is gone! It has
passed away; it has vanished like a dream! It fell pierced by the sword of
the Compte de Mirabeau. And yet that man, at the time of his inflicting the
death-wound of that Parliament, produced at once the shortest and the
grandest funeral oration that ever was or could be made upon the departure
of a great court of magistracy. When he pronounced the death sentence upon
that Parliament, and inflicted the mortal wound, he declared that his
motives for doing it were merely political, and that their hands were as
pure as those of justice itself, which they administered--a great and
glorious exit, my Lords, of a great and glorious body!

My Lords, if you must fall, may you so fall! But, if you stand, and stand I
trust you will, together with the fortunes of this ancient
monarchy--together with the ancient laws and liberties of this great and
illustrious kingdom, may you stand as unimpeached in honor as in power; may
you stand, not as a substitute for virtue, but as an ornament of virtue, as
a security for virtue; may you stand long, and long stand the terror of
tyrants; may you stand the refuge of afflicted Nations; may you stand a
sacred temple, for the perpetual residence of an inviolable justice!
                                                                  E. Burke.


                                 CXLVIII.

                         THE CRISIS OF THE NATION.

Lay hold on this opportunity of our salvation, Conscript Fathers,--by the
Immortal Gods I conjure you!--and remember that you are the foremost men
here, in the council chamber of the whole earth. Give one sign to the
Roman people that even as now they pledge their valor--so you pledge your
wisdom to the crisis of the State. But what need that I exhort you? Is
there one so insensate as not to understand that if we sleep over an
occasion such as this, it is ours to bow our necks to a tyranny not proud
and cruel only, but ignominious--but sinful? Do ye not know this Antony? Do
ye not know his companions? Do ye not know his whole
house--insolent--impure--gamesters--drunkards? To be slaves to such as he,
to such as these, were it not the fullest measure of misery conjoined with
the fullest measure of disgrace? If it be so--may the gods avert the
omen--that the supreme hour of the republic has come, let us, the rulers of
the world, rather fall with honor, than serve with infamy! Born to glory
and to liberty, let us hold these bright distinctions fast, or let us
greatly die! Be it, Romans, our first resolve to strike down the tyrant and
the tyranny. Be it our second to endure all things for the honor and
liberty of our country. To submit to infamy for the love of life can never
come within the contemplation of a Roman soul! For you, the people of
Rome--you whom the gods have appointed to rule the world--for you to own a
master, is impious.

You are in the last crisis of nations. To be free or to be slaves--that is
the question of the hour. By every obligation of man or States it behooves
you in this extremity to conquer-as your devotion to the gods and your
concord among yourselves encourage you to hope--or to bear all things but
slavery. Other nations may bend to servitude; the birthright and the
distinction of the people of Rome is liberty.
                                                                    Cicero.


                                  CXLIX.

                         EXTRACT FROM DEMOSTHENES.

Yes, Athenians, I repeat it, you yourselves are the contrivers of your own
ruin. Lives there a man who has confidence enough to deny it? Let him
arise, and assign, if he can, any other cause of the success and prosperity
of Philip. "But," you reply, "what Athens may have lost in reputation
abroad, she has gained in splendor at home. Was there ever a greater
appearance of prosperity? a greater face of plenty? Is not the city
enlarged? Are not the streets better paved, houses repaired and
beautified?" Away with such trifles! Shall I be paid with counters? An old
square new vamped up! a fountain! an aqueduct! are these acquisitions to
brag of? Cast your eye upon the magistrate under whose ministry you boast
these precious improvements. Behold the despicable creature, raised all at
once from dirt to opulence; from the lowest obscurity to the highest
honors. Have not some of these upstarts built private houses and seats,
vying with the most sumptuous of our public palaces? And how have their
fortunes and their power increased, but as the commonwealth has been ruined
and impoverished?

To what are we to impute these disorders, and to what cause assign the
decay of a State so powerful and flourishing in past times? The reason is
plain. The servant is now become the master. The magistrate was then
subservient to the people: all honors, dignities, and preferments, were
disposed by the voice and favor of the people; but the magistrate, now, has
usurped the right of the people, and exercises an arbitrary authority over
his ancient and natural lord. You, miserable people! the meanwhile, without
money, without friends,--from being the ruler, are become the servant;
from being the master, the dependent: happy that these governors, into
whose hands you have thus resigned your own power, are so good and so
gracious as to continue your poor allowance to see plays.

Believe me, Athenians, if, recovering from this lethargy, you would assume
the ancient spirit and freedom of your fathers if you would be your own
soldiers and own commanders, confiding no longer your affairs in foreign or
mercenary hands--if you would charge yourselves with your own defense,
employing abroad, for the public, what you waste in unprofitable pleasures
at home, the world might once more behold you making a figure worthy of
Athenians. "You would have us, then, (you say,) do service in our armies
in our own persons; and, for so doing, you would have the pensions we
receive in time of peace, accepted as pay in time of war. Is it thus we are
to understand you?" Yes, Athenians, 't is my plain meaning. I would make
it a standing rule, that no person, great or little, should be the
better for the public money, who would grudge to employ it for the public
service. Are we in peace? the public is charged with your subsistence. Are
we in war, or under a necessity, as at this time, to enter into a war? let
your gratitude oblige you to accept, as pay in defence of your benefactors,
what you receive, in peace, as mere bounty. Thus, without any
innovation--without altering or abolishing anything but pernicious
novelties, introduced for the encouragement of sloth and idleness--by
converting only for the future, the same funds, for the use of the
serviceable, which are spent, at present, upon the unprofitable, you may be
well served in your armies--your troops regularly paid--justice duly
administered--the public revenues reformed and increased--and every member
of the commonwealth rendered useful to his country according to his age and
ability without any further burden to the State.

This, O men of Athens, is what my duty prompted me to represent to you upon
this occasion.--May the gods inspire you to determine upon such measures,
as may be most expedient, for the particular and general good of our
country!


                                    CL.

                  EXTRACT FROM DEMOSTHENES ON THE CROWN.

Athens never was once known to live in a slavish, though a secure obedience
to unjust and arbitrary power. No; our whole history is one series of noble
contests for preminence; the whole period of our existence hath been spent
in braving dangers, for the sake of glory and renown. And so highly do you
esteem such conduct, so consonant to the Athenian character that those of
your ancestors who were most distinguished in the pursuit of it, are ever
the most favorite objects of your praise--and with reason. For who can
reflect without astonishment upon the magnanimity of those men, who
resigned their lands, gave up their city and embarked in their ships, to
avoid the odious state of subjection?--who chose Themistocle, the adviser
of this conduct, to command their forces and, when Cyrsilus proposed that
they should yield to the terms prescribed, stoned him to death? Nay the
public indignation was not yet allayed. Your very wives inflicted the same
vengeance on his wife. For the Athenians of that day looked out for no
speaker, no general to procure them a state of prosperous slavery. They had
the spirit to reject even life, unless they were allowed to enjoy that life
in freedom. Should I then attempt to assert that it was I who inspired you
with sentiments worthy of your ancestors, I should meet the just resentment
of every hearer. No; it is my point to show, that such sentiments are
properly your own--that they were the sentiments of my country, long before
my days. I claim but my share of merit, in having acted on such principles,
in every part of my administration. He, then, who condemns every part of my
administration, he who directs you to treat me with severity, as one who
hath involved the State in terrors and dangers, while he labors to deprive
me of present honor, robs you of the applause of all posterity. For, if you
now pronounce, that, as my public conduct hath not been right, Ctesiphon
must stand condemned it must be thought that you yourselves have acted
wrong, not that you owe your present state to the caprice of fortune. But
it cannot be! No, my countrymen! it cannot be you have acted wrong, in
encountering danger bravely, for the liberty and the safety of all Greece.
No! by those generous souls of ancient times, who were exposed at Marathon!
By those who stood arrayed at Plata! By those who encountered the Persian
fleet at Salamis! Who fought at Artemisium! No! by all those illustrious
sons of Athens, whose remains lie deposited in the public monuments.


                                   CLI.

                             QUEEN ELIZABETH.

The reign of Queen Elizabeth may be considered as the opening of the modern
history of England, especially in its connection with the modern system of
Europe, which began about that time to assume the form that it preserved
till the French Revolution. It was a very memorable period, of which the
maxims ought to be engraven on the head and heart of every Englishman.
Philip the Second, at the head of the greatest empire then in the world
openly was aiming at universal domination. To the most extensive and
opulent dominions, the most numerous and disciplined armies, the most
renowned captains, the greatest revenue, he added also the most formidable
power over opinion. Elizabeth was among the first objects of his hostility.
That wise and magnanimous princess placed herself in the front of the
battle for the liberties of Europe. Though she had to contend at home with
his fanatical faction, which almost occupied Ireland, which divided
Scotland, and was not of contemptible strength in England, she aided the
oppressed inhabitants of the Netherlands in their just and glorious
resistance to his tyranny; she aided Henry the Great in suppressing the
abominable rebellion which anarchical principles had excited and Spanish
arms had supported in France, and after a long reign of various fortune, in
which she preserved her unconquered spirit through great calamities and
still greater dangers, she at length broke the strength of the enemy, and
reduced his power within such limits as to be compatible with the safety of
England and of all Europe. Her great heart inspired her with a higher and a
nobler wisdom--which disdained to appeal to the low and sordid passions of
her people even for the protection of their low and sordid interests,
because she knew, or, rather, she felt that there are effeminate, creeping,
cowardly, short-sighted passions, which shrink from conflict, even in
defence of their own mean objects. In a righteous cause she roused those
generous affections of her people, which alone teach boldness, constancy,
and foresight, and which are therefore the only safe guardians of the
lowest as well as the highest interests of a nation. In her memorable
address to the army, when the invasion of her kingdom was threatened by
Spain, this woman of heroic spirit disdained to speak to them of their ease
and their commerce, and their wealth and their safety. No! She touched
another chord--she spoke of their national honor, of their dignity as
Englishmen, of "the foul scorn that Parma or Spain should dare to invade
the borders of her realms." She breathed into them those grand and powerful
sentiments, which exalt vulgar men into heroes which led them into the
battle of their country armed with holy and irresistible enthusiasm; which
ever cover with their shield all the ignoble interests that base
calculation, and cowardly selfishness tremble to hazard, but shrink from
defending.
                                                             J. Mackintosh.


                                   CLII.

                              THE FREE PRESS.

Gentlemen, there is one point of view in which this case seems to merit
your most serious attention. The real prosecutor is the master of the
greatest empire the world ever saw; the defendant is a defenseless,
proscribed exile. I consider this case, therefore, as the first of a long
series of conflicts between the greatest power in the world and the only
Free Press remaining in Europe. Gentlemen, this distinction of the English
Press is new--it is a proud and melancholy distinction. Before the great
earthquake of the French Revolution had swallowed up all the asylums of
free discussion on the Continent, we enjoyed that privilege, indeed, more
fully than others; but we did not enjoy it exclusively. It existed, in
fact, where it was not protected by law; and the wise and generous
connivance of governments was daily more and more secured by the growing
civilization of their subjects. In Holland, in Switzerland, in the imperial
towns of Germany, the press was either legally or practically free. Holland
and Switzerland are no more; and, since the commencement of this
prosecution, fifty imperial towns have been erased from the list of
independent States by one dash of the pen. Three or four still preserve a
precarious and trembling existence. I will not say by what compliances they
must purchase its continuance. I will not insult the feebleness of States,
whose unmerited fall I do most bitterly deplore.

One asylum of free discussion is still inviolate. There is still one spot
in Europe where man can fully exercise his reason on the most important
concerns of society, where he can boldly publish his judgment on the acts
of the proudest and most powerful tyrants. The Press of England is still
free. It is guarded by the free Constitution of our forefathers. It is
guarded by the hearts and arms of Englishmen; and, I trust I may venture to
say that if it be to fall, it will fall only under the ruins of the British
Empire. It is an awful consideration, gentlemen. Every other monument of
European liberty has perished. That ancient fabric which has been gradually
raised by the wisdom and virtues of our fathers still stands. It stands,
thanks be to God! solid and entire--but it stands alone, and it stands
amid ruins. Believing, then, as I do, that we are on the eve of a great
struggle--that this is only the first of a long series of conflicts between
reason and power that you have now in your hands committed to your trust,
the protection of the only Free Press remaining in Europe, now confined to
this kingdom; and addressing you therefore as the guardians of the most
important interests of mankind--convinced that the unfettered exercise of
reason depends more on your present verdict than on any other that was ever
delivered by a jury,--I trust I may rely with confidence on the issue--I
trust that you will consider yourselves as the advanced guard of
Liberty--as having this day to fight the first battle of free discussion
against the most formidable enemy that it ever encountered!
                                                             J. Mackintosh.


                                  CLIII.

                         THE LIBERTY OF THE PRESS.

The liberty of the press, on general subjects, comprehends and implies as
much strict observance of positive law as is consistent with perfect purity
of intention, and equal and useful society. What that latitude is, cannot
be promulgated in the abstract, but must be judged in the particular
instance, and consequently, upon this occasion, must be judged of by you
without forming any possible precedent for any other case.

If gentlemen, you are firmly persuaded of the singleness and purity of the
author's intentions, you are not bound to subject him to infamy, because in
the zealous career of a just and animated composition, he happens to
have tripped with his pen into an intemperate expression in one or two
instances of a long work. If this severe duty were binding on your
conscience, the liberty of the press would be an empty sound, and no man
could venture to write on any subject, however pure his purpose, without an
attorney at one elbow and a counsel at the other.

From minds thus subdued by the terrors of punishment, there could issue no
works of genius to expand the empire of human reason, nor any masterly
compositions on the general nature of government, by the help of which the
great commonwealths of mankind have founded their establishments; much less
any of those useful applications of them to critical conjunctures, by
which, from time to time, our own Constitution, by the exertion of patriot
citizens, has been brought back to its standard. Under such terrors, all
the great lights of science and civilization must be extinguished; for men
cannot communicate their free thoughts to one another with a lash held over
their heads. It is the nature of everything that is great and useful both
in the animate and inanimate world, to be wild and irregular, and we must
be contented to take them with the alloys which belong to them, or live
without them. Genius breaks from the fetters of criticism, but its
wanderings are sanctioned by its majesty and wisdom when it advances in its
path: subject it to the critic, and you tame it into dulness. Mighty rivers
break down their banks in the winter, sweeping away to death the flocks
which are fattened on the soil that they fertilize in the summer: the few
may be saved by embankments from drowning, but the flock must perish for
hunger. Tempests occasionally shake our dwellings and dissipate our
commerce; but they scourge before them the lazy elements, which without
them would stagnate into pestilence. In like manner, Liberty herself, the
last and best gift of God to his creatures, must be taken Just as she is:
you might pare her down into bashful regularity, and shape her into a
perfect model of severe, scrupulous law, but she would then be Liberty no
longer; and you must be content to die under the lash of this inexorable
justice which you had exchanged for the banners of Freedom.
                                                              Lord Erskine.


                                   CLIV.

                         BRITISH TYRANNY IN INDIA.

I am driven in the defence of my client, to remark, that it is mad and
preposterous to bring to the standard of justice and humanity the exercise
of a dominion founded upon violence and terror. It may and must be true
that Mr. Hastings has repeatedly offended against the rights and privileges
of Asiatic government, if he was the faithful deputy of a power which could
not maintain itself for an hour without trampling upon both. He may and
must have offended against the laws of God and nature, if he was the
faithful viceroy of an empire wrested in blood from the people to whom God
and nature had given it. He may and must have preserved that unjust
dominion over timorous and abject nations by a terrifying overbearing,
insulting superiority, If he was the faithful administrator of your
government, which, leaving no root in consent or affection no foundation in
similarity of interests--no support from any one principle which cements
men together in society, could only be upheld by alternate stratagem and
force. The unhappy people of India, feeble and effeminate as they are from
the softness of their climate, and subdued and broken as they have been by
the knavery and strength of civilization, still occasionally start up in
all the vigor and intelligence of insulted nature. To be governed at all,
they must be governed with a rod of iron; and our empire in the East would,
long since, have been lost to Great Britain, if civil skill and military
prowess had not united their efforts to support an authority--which Heaven
never gave--by means which it never can sanction.

Gentlemen, I think I can observe that you are touched with this way of
considering the subject, and I can account for it. I have not been
considering it through the cold medium of books, but have been speaking of
man and his nature, and of human dominion, from what I have seen of them
myself among reluctant nations submitting to our authority. I know what
they feel, and how such feelings can alone be repressed. I have heard them
in my youth from a naked savage, in the indignant character of a prince
surrounded by his subjects, addressing the Governor of a British colony,
holding a bundle of sticks in his hand, as the notes of his unlettered
eloquence. "Who is it," said the jealous ruler over the desert, encroached
upon by the restless foot of English adventure--"who is it that causes this
river to rise in the high mountains, and to empty itself into the ocean?
Who is it that causes to blow the loud winds of winter, and that calms them
again in summer? Who is it that rears up the shade of those lofty forests,
and blasts them with the quick lightning at his pleasure? The same Being
who gave to you a country on the other side of the waters, and gave ours to
in; and by this title we will defend it," said the warrior, throwing down
his tomahawk upon the ground, and raising the war-sound of his nation.
These are the feelings of subjugated man all round the globe; and depend
upon it, nothing but fear will control where it is vain to look for
affection.

If England, from a lust of ambition and dominion, will insist on
maintaining despotic rule over distant and hostile nations, beyond all
comparison more numerous and extended than herself, and gives commission to
her viceroys to govern them with no other instructions than to preserve
them, and to secure permanently their revenues, with what color of
consistency or reason can she place herself in the moral chair, and affect
to be shocked at the execution of her own orders; adverting to the exact
measure of wickedness and injustice necessary to their execution, and,
complaining only of the excess as the immorality, considering her authority
as a dispensation for breaking the commands of God, and the breach of them
as only punishable when contrary to the ordinances of man? Such a
proceeding, gentlemen, begets serious reflection. It would be better,
perhaps, for the masters and the servants of all such governments to join
in supplication, that the great Author of violated humanity may not
confound them together in one common judgment.
                                                              Lord Erskine.


                                   CLV.

                           DECLARATION OF RIGHT.

I might as a constituent, come to your bar and demand my liberty. I do call
upon you by the laws of the land, and their violation; by the instructions
of eighteen counties; by the arms, inspiration, and providence of the
present moment--tell us the rule by which we shall go; assert the law of
Ireland; declare the liberty of the land! I will not be answered by a
public lie, in the shape of an amendment; nor, speaking for the subjects'
freedom, am I to hear of faction. I wish for nothing but to breathe in this
our island, in common with my fellow-subjects, the air of liberty. I have
no ambition, unless it be to break your chain and contemplate your glory. I
never will be satisfied so long as the meanest cottager in Ireland has a
link of the British chain clanking to his rags. He may be naked,--he shall
not be in irons. And I do see the time at hand; the spirit is gone forth;
the Declaration of Right is planted; and though great men should fall off,
yet the cause shall live; and though he who utters this should die, yet
the immortal fire shall outlast the humble organ who conveys it, and the
breath of liberty, like the word of the holy man will not die with the
prophet, but survive him.
                                                                H. Grattan.


                                   CLVI.

                          POLITICS AND RELIGION.

That religion has, in fact, nothing to do with the politics of many who
profess it, is a melancholy truth. But that it has of right, no concern
with political transactions, is quite a new discovery. If such opinions,
however, prevail, there is no longer any mystery in the character of those
whose conduct in political matters violates every precept and slanders
every principle of the religion of Christ. But what is politics? Is it not
the science and the exercise of civil rights and civil duties? And what is
religion? Is it not an obligation to the service of God, founded on his
authority, and extending to all our relations, personal and social? Yet
religion has nothing to do with politics? Where did you learn this maxim?
The Bible is full of directions for your behavior as citizens. It is plain,
pointed; awful in its injunctions on ruler and ruled as such: yet religion
has nothing to do with politics! You are commanded "in all your ways to
acknowledge Him." In everything, by prayer and supplication, with
thanksgiving, to let your requests be made known unto God "And whatsoever
ye do, in word or deed, to do all in the name of the Lord Jesus." Yet
religion has nothing to do with politics! Most astonishing! And is there
any part of your conduct in which you are, or wish to be, without law to
God, and not under the law of Jesus Christ? Can you persuade yourselves
that political men and measures are to undergo no review in the judgment to
come? That all the passion and violence, the fraud and falsehood and
corruption, which pervade the system of party, and burst out like a flood
at the public elections, are to be blotted from the catalogue of
unchristian deeds, because they are politics? Or that a minister of the
gospel may see his people, in their political career, bid defiance to their
God in breaking through every moral restraint, and keep a guiltless
silence, because religion has nothing to do with politics? I forbear to
press the argument farther; observing only that many of our difficulties
and sins may be traced to this pernicious notion. Yes, if our religion had
had more to do with our politics; if, in the pride of our citizenship, we
had not forgotten our Christianity; if we had prayed more and wrangled less
about the affairs of our country, it would have been infinitely better for
us at this day
                                                                J. M. Mason


                           STANDARD SELECTIONS.

                                  POETRY


                                   CLVII.

                         THE STAR-SPANGLED BANNER.

         O say, can you see, by the dawn's early light,
         What so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming--
         Whose broad stripes and bright stars, through the perilous fight,
         O'er the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming!
         And the rockets' red glare, the bombs bursting in air,
         Gave proof through the night that our flag was still there;
         O say, does that Star-spangled Banner yet wave
         O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave!

         On that shore, dimly seen through the mists of the deep,
         Where the foe's haughty host in dread silence reposes,
         What is that which the breeze, o'er the towering steep,
         As it fitfully blows, now conceals, now discloses!
         Now it catches the gleam of the morning's first beam,
         In full glory reflected now shines on the stream:
         'T is the Star-spangled Banner!--O long may it wave
         O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave!

         And where are the foes who so vauntingly swore
         That the havoc of war and the battle's confusion,
         A home and a country should leave us no more?
         Their blood hath washed out their foul footsteps' pollution!
         No refuge could save the hireling and slave
         From the terror of flight or the gloom of the grave;
         And the Star-spangled Banner in triumph shall wave
         O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave!

         O, thus be it ever, when freemen shall stand
         Between their loved homes and the war's desolation!
         Blessed with victory and peace, may the heaven-rescued land
         Praise the Power that hath made and preserved us a Nation
         Then conquer we must, when our cause it is just,
         And this be our motto--"In God is our trust;"
         And the Star-spangled Banner in triumph shall wave
         O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave!
                                                                 F. S. Key.


                                  CLVIII.

                           ASPIRATIONS OF YOUTH

                       Higher, higher, will we climb,
                       Up the mount of glory,
                       That our names may live through time
                       In our country's story;
                       Happy, when her welfare calls,
                       He who conquers, he who falls.

                       Deeper, deeper, let us toil,
                       In the mines of knowledge;
                       Nature's wealth, and learning's spoil,
                       Win from school and college;
                       Delve we then for richer gems
                       Than the stars of diadems.

                       Onward, onward, may we press
                       Through the path of duty;
                       Virtue is true happiness,
                       Excellence true beauty.
                       Minds are of celestial birth;
                       Make we then a heaven of earth.

                       Closer, closer, let us knit
                       Hearts and hands together,
                       Where our fireside comforts sit,
                       In the wildest weather;
                       O! they wander wide who roam
                       For the joys of life from home!
                                                             J. Montgomery.


                                   CLIX.

                     THE L0VE OF COUNTRY AND OF HOME.

               There is a land, of every land the pride,
               Beloved by Heaven o'er all the world beside;
               Where brighter suns dispense serener light,
               And milder moons imparadise the night;
               A land of beauty, virtue, valor, truth,
               Time-tutored age, and love-exalted youth.

               The wandering mariner, whose eye explores
               The wealthiest isles, the most enchanting shores,
               Views not a realm so bountiful and fair,
               Nor breathes the spirit of a purer air;
               In every clime, the magnet of his soul,
               Touched by remembrance, trembles to that pole;
               For in this land of Heaven's peculiar grace,
               The heritage of Nature's noblest race,
               There is a spot of earth supremely blest,
               A dearer, sweeter spot than all the rest,
               Where man, creation's tyrant, casts aside
               His sword and sceptre, pageantry and pride,
               While, in his softened looks, benignly blend
               The sire, the son, the husband, brother, friend.

               Here woman reigns; the mother, daughter, wife,
               Strews with fresh flowers the narrow way of life!
               In the clear heaven of her delightful eye,
               An angel-guard of loves and graces lie;
               Around her knees domestic duties meet,
               And fireside pleasures gambol at her feet.
               Where shall that land, that spot of earth be found?
               Art thou a man?--a patriot?--look around;
               O! thou shalt find, however thy footsteps roam,
               That land thy country, and that spot thy home!
                                                             J. Montgomery.


                                   CLX.

                                 THE BELLS

                     Hear the sledges with the bells--
                               Silver bells!
             What a world of merriment their melody foretells!
                     How they tinkle, tinkle, tinkle,
                         In the icy air of night!
                    While the stars that over sprinkle
                     All the heavens, seem to twinkle
                        With a crystalline delight;
                         Keeping time, time, time,
                         In a sort of Runic rhyme,
              To the tintinnabulation that so musically wells
                   From the bells, bells, bells, bells,
                           Bells bells, bells--
             From the jingling and the tinkling of the bells.

                      Hear the mellow wedding bells--
                               Golden bells!
            What a world of happiness their harmony foretells!
                      Through the balmy air of night
                     How they ring out their delight!
                       From the molten-golden notes,
                               All in time,
                        What a liquid ditty floats
             To the turtle-dove that listens, while she gloats
                               On the moon!
                      O, from out the sounding cells,
                What a gush of euphony voluminously wells!
                              How it swells,
                               How it dwells
                        On the future! how it tells
                          Of rapture that impels
                      To the swinging and the ringing
                        Of the bells, bells, bells,
                    Of the bells, bells, bells, bells,
                          Bells, bells, bells--
               To the rhyming and the chiming of the bells!

                       Hear the loud alarum bells--
                               Brazen bells!
            What a tale of terror, now, their turbulency tells!
                       In the startled ear of night
                    How they scream out their affright!
                       Too much horrified to speak,
                       They can only shriek, shriek,
                               Out of time,
            In a clamorous appealing to the mercy of the fire,
          In a mad expostulation with the deaf and frantic fire,
                      Leaping higher, higher, higher,
                         With a desperate desire,
                         And a resolute endeavor,
                        Now--now to sit, or never,
                    By the side of the pale-faced moon.
                        O, the bells, bells, bells!
                      What a tale their terror tells
                                Of Despair!
                   How they clang, and clash, and roar!
                        What a horror they outpour
                   On the bosom of the palpitating air!
                       Yet the ear, it fully know