 Are you there?"

"Is that Miss Pritchard?" asked a voice that made her pulses hasten.

"Yes?  Who is that?"

"The mere worm," came back the cheery answer.

"What's the matter?  You sound somewhat funereal.  Was Brother Dudley
very angry?"

"Terrible.  I am still recovering.  He seemed to have grave doubts as
to whether you really were the eminent person you professed to be!"

"Oh, he did, did he?  And what did you say?"

"That it was quite possible you were only a third-rate actor all the
time."

"Thanks.  I shall not grow vain on your compliments.  Have you any
grave doubts yourself?"

"I don't mind either way."

"Thanks again.  Well, I am speaking to you from my own private sanctum
at the House of Commons; and if you want to make sure, you can take my
number, and ring up the Exchange and inquire."

"I'll take your word for it."

"Good girl.  You don't sound quite so obstreperous as you were last
night.  What's the matter?"

"I'm only Mondayfied.  The office is always boring on a Monday."

"I'm sorry I can't suggest a spin this afternoon, but I'm too much
engaged until Wednesday.  Will you come on Wednesday?  Well?" as Hal,
appeared to be meditating.

"Where do you propose going?" she asked.

"Anywhere you like.  I'd better not fetch you from the office though.
I'll pick you up just casually in St. Jame's Park.  Will you be there
at five, near the Archway?"

"All right, if I can get away.  How shall I let you know if I change my
mind?"

"Don't do anything so childish.  The run will do you good after a
stuffy office.  I'll be there to the minute.  Good-bye," and he rang
off without waiting for a reply.

Hal went back to her work, with a pleasurable sensation that instead of
grey stuffiness there was joyful sunshine.  She had never imagined for
a moment het would actually carry out his suggestion of a meetingt; and
here they were with an actual appointment.

It was so odd, too, that they had not properly seen each other yet;
only having met in the light of street lamps; and she fell to wondering
eagerly what he was like in broad daylight.  A voice whispered,
"Perhaps you won't like him at all, and will wish you had not gone";
but her love of adventure easily silenced it, and she looked forward to
her outing without any misgivings.

Once she thought she would go an tell Lorraine about it first, but
later decided it would be more enjoyable to to so afterwards, and kept
her own counsel; which perhaps was not entirely wise, seeing how much
more cause Lorraine had to know the world than she had.





CHAPTER XIV


Sir Edwin Crathie had come to the front very rapidly under the auspices
of the Liberal Government.  Without having any special worth, he was
sufficiently brilliant and unscrupulous to brush obstacles aside
without compunction, and assert himself in a manner that impressed his
hearers with the notion that he was very clever, very thorough, and
very reliable.

Those who knew him superficially believed him extra-ordinarily clever.
Those who knew him intimately sometimes shrugged their shoulders.  He
was possessed undoubtedly of a certain flashy sort of cleverness, but
some of his greatest skill existed in imposing it upon others as
strenght and insight.

As may be imagined, such a man was not much troubled with principles.
If a step was likely to help him forward with his ambitions, he took it
without considering the moral aspect.  If no help was likely to follow,
he only took it if it happened to please his fancy.  To say that he had
climbed by women was to put it mildly.

Many of his steps he had taken on women's hearts, trampling them
mercilessly in the process.  And since he was admittedly unscrupulous,
it was not surprising, for he was possessed not only of an attractive
appearance, but of great personal magnetism when he chose to exert it.

He was a bachelor because so far he had considered the single state
best forwarded his aims, but a growing and imperative need for money
was now causing him to look round among the richest heiresses for some
one to pay his debts in consideration of being made Lady Crathie.

In the meantime Hal's independent spirit and freshness suggested an
entertaining interlude; and as she attracted him more strongly than any
woman had done of late, he decided to follow up their chance friendship
just for the amusement of it.

In consequence, he felt quite boyishly eager for the hours to pass on
Wednesday, and when at last it was time to start, dismissed his
chauffeur with a curt sentence, and started off alone.  The chauffeur,
it may be mentioned, merely glanced after him, and with a shrug of his
shoulders wondered "what the master was up to now."

When Sir Edwin reached the meeting-place he was not particularly
surprised to find no signs of Hal.  He believed she would come; but
evidently she liked being perverse, and would purposely keep him
waiting.  He ran the car slowly back again, scanning each pedestrian
ahead with a certain anxious eagerness, wondering how he would like her
in broad daylight.

On returning to the Archway, and still finding no one waiting, he
alighted with a pretence of examining some part of the car, and looked
back over the paths leading down from Piccadilly.

And something in his mental regions felt rather foolishly glad when he
recognised her afar off.

He had never seen her walk, but his instinct told him Hal would move
with just the graceful, swinging stride of the tall, slim figure coming
towards him,  and carry her head and shoulders with just such a
dauntless, grenadier attitude.

He found himself standing quite still, with his hands deep in his
overcoat pockets, watching her.  Her costume, too, pleased his
fastidious taste.  Of course a first-class tailor had cut a coat and
skirt with a fit and hang like that; and the small hat, if it had
nothing Parisian about it, anyhow suited the wearer and dress to
perfection.

He noted with quiet pleasure that she showed no signs of embarrassment
when she met his watching gaze, merely crossing the road with the same
jaunty, upright walk, and a gleam of fun in her eyes.

"Hullo!" was her greeting.  "Hope I haven't kept you waiting.  I've had
a busy afternoon helping my chief to give you and The Right Honourable
Hayes Matheson a good slanging."

"Oh, you have, have you?"

The grey eyes were growing more and more approving, as he noted each
detail most likely to appeal to a man who had made a study of women for
many years.  The shapely little ears with the glossy hair curling round
them, the full, rounded throat, the determined little chin, the frank,
fearless eyes.

He still hardly knew whether she was pretty or not, but he discerned
wery quickly that she was amply blessed with that rare gift of
personality and humour that is so much more durable than a pretty face.

Hal, for her part, was no less interested in him, but she found little
else than that she had already seen: humorous, quizzical grey eyes, a
face a good deal lined, and a mouth and chin suggesting a nature fond
of enjoyment and self-indulgence, which it had never seen any cause to
deny itself.  She saw that he was very grey about the temples, and a
trifle inclined to stoutness, but tall enough and broad enough to carry
it off.

A fine figure of a man, though one, she felt instinctively, belonging
to a very different world to hers.  Because she felt his careful
scrutiny, and because she wanted to assert her indifference to it, she
remarked suddenly, after a moment:

"Well, how do you like me by daylight?"

"How do you like me?" he retorted, and laughed.

She shook her head, and her eyes grew mischievous.

"Old," she said; "quite old and grey."

"Old be damned!  Forty-eight is the prime of life."

She was taking her seat, and gave a low chuckle of enjoyment at having
drawn him.

"Ah, you may laugh now," he said, "but I'll soon show you forty-eight
is far more attractive than twenty-eight.  Where shall we go?"

"I don't mind in the least, but I should prefer to steer for tea and
buns."

"Tea and buns!... how like a woman!...  How can you expect to get the
vote on tea and buns?"

They were spinning along the Broughton Road now, heading for Putney and
Richmond, and Hal felt her spirits rising momentarily with the joy of
the motion and comfort and fresh air.

"We don't expect to get in on tea and buns; we expect to get it on
whisky and beer.  That is to say, we expect the course of events to
prove that tea and buns conduce to a frame of mind better able to cope
with the questions of the day than the whisky and beer drained in such
quantities by men."

"And when you've got it you'll all vote for the man who happens to be
good-looking, and who can pay you the prettiest compliments."

"A few will vote that way, no doubt, but not the majority.  Women are
not so fond of pretty men as they were"; and her lips curled
significantly.

"Pretty men!..." he echoed, with enjoyment.

"Little woman, you have a neat way of putting things."

He was silent a few minutes, then added:

"I suppose, down at that office they are all in love with you?"

"I don't know.  I haven't asked them," with twinkling eyes.  "I'm a bit
in love with the chief myself."

"Oh, your are, are you?  And what aged man might he be?"

"Oh, he's quite old," she laughed; "somewhere about forty-eight."

"And is he in love with you?"

"It just depends.  Sometimes he's rather fond of me on a Saturday; but
on Mondays he loathes me."

"I see.  And are you as changeable?"

"No, I love him always; but on Mondays it's mostly from habit.  On
Saturdays it's from choice."

He looked down at her, and it was on the tip of his tongue to state
some commonplace about being jealous.  Then suddenly he looked back to
his steering wheel, and the commonplace sentence died unspoken.  Quite
unaccountably he felt less inclined to flirt and more inclined to be
really friendly, and for some distance they skimmed along in silence.

They had tea at the Star and Garter, both chatting volubly on the most
interesting topics of the day.  Hal's newspaper work had made her
cognisant of many subjects very few girls of her age would even have
heard of, and her original criticisms delighted him.  It was a gay
little tea-table, and the time slipped by with extraordinary rapidity.
Hal noticed it first.

"Do you know it is half-past six?" she said, "and I'm dining out
to-night.  We must fly."

"Is it really past six?..." in astonishment.  "How the time has flown!
You know, you are such an entertaining little woman, you make me forget
everything but yourself."  He looked at her hard, and the force of
habit caused him to add: "I doubt if any other woman I know to-day
could have given me so much pleasure."

"Well, you needn't thank me," with her low, fresh laugh, "because I
came entirely to give myself pleasure."

"Then I hope you have succeeded.  I see it is quite hopeless to expect
any sort of a complimentary speech from you."

"Quite; though I don't mind admitting I have been very enjoyably
entertained as well."

"That is something, anyhow.  And now I suppose you are going straight
off home to dress, and dine with some one else, and forget about me?"

"I don't suppose I shall forget you.  It happens to be a journalist
dinner, and probably we shall tear you to pieces between us before we
have finished."

"Well, I'd rather you did that than forget me."

She felt him looking hard into her face, with something a little
sinister in his expression, and she got up and turned away.

"Why do you turn away when I am interested?  Don't you think you might
be a little pleased that I don't want you to forget me?"

He asked the question with a humorous twinkle, though she felt that he
meant it seriously as well.  This last, however, she was clever enough
to ignore, and merely threw him a mischievous glance over her shoulder
as she answered:

"Well, I have to consider Brother Dudley's attitude, you see; and I've
a notion he would be best pleased for both the incident and motorist of
Sunday evening to be forgotten."

He got up slowly, looking amused.

"I suppose he would be horrified at this outing?"

"I strongly suspect he would."

"What if he hears you were out motoring at Richmond with me?"

"Oh, well, I shall tell him you are old enough to be my father, and not
to be absurd."

"Why do you harp on my age so?...  If I am old enough to be your
father, it doesn't follow that I'm too old to be your lover?"

He was standing clos to her now, looking down into her face, and Hal
felt a little conscious tremor run through her blood.  She faced him
squarely, however, and answered in a gay, careless voice:

"Of course it doesn't, only, as I don't happen to want a lover, it's a
contingency not worth considering."

"Perhaps the post is already filled?"  he suggested, refusing likewise
to be daunted.

"Quite filled.  It's a case for a placard stating 'House Full', and
you," she finished, "would naturally be at the tail end of the queue
which has to go away."

He laughed with relish, and gave it up.

"I can see you will take some taming," he said, as he handed her into
the car.  "My weighty and important position evidently does not impress
you in the least."

"Of course not, as you're a Liberal.  They have so few really good men,
they have to take anything they can get.  Back up the  Budget and the
Chancellor, and exhibit a colossal amount of impudence, and there you
are!"

"Well, there isn't much to boast of in the way of men on the
Conservative side, is there?  Chiefly a collection of cousins, and
second-cousins, and cousins by marriage, shoved in by a few interfering
old aunts.  You don't need me to tell an enlightened young woman like
you that even impudence might serve the country better than
cousin-ship."

"I wonder sometimes if any of you honestly put the country first at any
time; or whether it is just a popular name for a very big 'me'?"

"You are such a little sceptic.  Do you always credit people with
self-interested motives?"

"I don't know that I do; but if you are a city-worker it is a fairly
safe basis to work upon, until you can find proof that you are wrong."

He looked down at her with amusement.

"What a wise little head it is!  Do you know, I don't think I ever met
any one quite like you before,"

"What you have missed!" was the gay rejoinder, and they both laughed.

"I suppose I mustn't take you home?" as they neared Piccadilly.
"Brother Dudley might see us?"

"No, thanks.  If you will drop me at Hyde Park Corner I will take a
homely bus, and return to my Bloomsbury level."

"Until my next free afternoon, I hope.  Will you come again soon?"

"Perhaps."

"What do you do on Sundays?"

"I generally go out with Dick Bruce."

"Does Dick Bruce consider himself entitled to every Sunday?"

"Well, I consider myself entitled to Dick!..." laughing.

"You're evidently very fond of Dick."

"Very," with enthousiasm.  "I have been for twenty-five years.  We were
like the two babies in _Punch_ which said, 'Help yourself and pass the
bottle.'"

"Dick's a lucky devil.  Does he take Saturday afternoons as well?"

"No; he plays cricket or hockey then."

"Then may I have a Saturday afternoon?"

"It would be jolly;" and a swift gleam in her eyes told him she meant
it.

""Very well.  I shall consider that a promise.  The first Saturday I
can arrange, we'll run down to some little place on the coast, and get
some sea air.  And if you feel inclined to write me a letter between
now and then, send it to York Chambers, Jermyn Street."

He pulled up, and instantly she exclaimed in haste:

"Oh, there's my bus.  Good-bye, thanks awfully; I must fly"; and before
he could get in another word, he saw her clambering on to a
motor-omnibus, with the utmost unconcern for his sudden, astonished
solitarness.

"Gad!...  what a woman she'll be one day," was his comment.  "If she'd
a hundred thousand pounds I wouldn't mind marrying her myself; she'd
never let a chap get bored.  I'll warrant,"  He moved slowly down
Piccadilly.  "Most of them do," he cogitated; "it doesn't seem as if
there were one woman in a thousand who didn't soon become a bore.
Heigh-ho, but debts are more boring still sometimes, and I want a
fifty-thousand cheque badly."





CHAPTER XV


When Hal went to tell Lorraine of her adventure she found her a victim
of the prevailing malady, kept indoors two days with influenza.  She
was not in bed, but lying on a sofa, by a small fire, looking very
frail and ill.  Hal did not say much, as Lorraine disliked fussing, but
her heart smote her to think she had been absent two days while her
friend was a prisoner.

"Why didn't you tell Jean to 'phone me?" she asked.  "I would have got
here somehow."

Instead of answering, Lorraine nestled down into her cushions, and said:

"It's dreadful nice to see you, chummy."

Hal drew up a footstool, and sat down with her head against the sofa.

"What does the court physician say, Lorry?  Of course he is generally
fathering and brothering and mothering you as well as doctoring?"

"Yes; he is taking care of me in a sort of all-round, comprehensive
fashion.  I don't know what I should do without him."

"Do! ... "with a little laugh.  "Why, just have another court physician
instead."  Hal's eyes strayed round the room.  "What loverly flowers,
Lorraine!  Don't they almost make you feel a corpse?"

"They would if they were white, I dare say."

On a little table by the sofa was a bowl of violets, looking very sweet
and homely amoung the beautiful exotics filling all the other vases.
Hal buried her nose in them.

"How delicious!  Who ventured to send you royal highness anything so
homely as violets?"

Lorraine's eyes rested on them with a look of tenderness.  "Some one
not very well off," she said, "who had the perspicacity to know I
should value them from him more than the choicest blooms."

"It sounds as if it might have been Dick.  Was it?"

"No."

Lorraine replied in a careless tone, suggesting there was no special
interest attached to the giver, but, for some unknown reason, Hal chose
to be inquisitive.

"The Three Graces are your only 'hard-up' friends, and Quin is down
east, so he would not know you were ill.    Surely Baby didn't think it
at all out by himself, and actually go into a shop and buy them?"

"You shouldn't call Mr. Hermon Baby, Hal; it isn't quite fair."

"Oh, yes it is, as long as he is so objectless and purposeless.
Besides, his face is to cherubic I can't help it."

"I call his face very manly."

"Well, so it is - in a way: but it's cherubic also; and then he's so
dreadfully placid.  If he'd only wake up, and boil over about
something."

She was silent a few moments, and then said suddenly;

"Do you know Sir Edwin Crathie, Lorraine?"

"No; why?  I now of him."

"What do you know of him?"

"Oh, nothing much.  I believe he is a great lady's man."

"I've met him," said Hal; and she proceeded to tell of the motor mishap
and subsequent meeting.

Lorraine was interested and amused, but for some strange reason Hal did
not tell the tale with her usual gusto, and nothing in her voice or
manner suggested it was more than the most casual of meetings.
Lorraine, a little preoccupied with her own feelings, for a wonder did
not discern that Hal treated the incident with a lightness not quite
natural, considering how exceedingly unlooked-for it was, and before
the recital was quite finished Jean looked in to inquire if Lorraine
would see Mr. Hermon.  Lorraine replied in the affirmative, and a
moment later Alymer Hermon entered the room.

"I'm so sorry you are not well," he said, in his frank, pleasant way.
"I only heard of it last night."

"And then you sent me violets.  It was nice of you.  I appreciate them
so much."

"I guessed Dick," put in Hal, who had not risen from her stool. "I did
not think you would have the energy to think of them."

"I have been feeling rather exhausted since," he told her lightly.

"Take the arm chair," said Lorraine smilingly, "and have a good rest."

"Do," echoed Hal.  "I'm sure you are tired out with your day's work."

"Don't be so superior," he retorted.  "Just because you can type a
certain number of words per minute, you give yourself such airs."

"Well, that's a better reason than the fact of being a few inches
longer than most people."

"Now you two," put in Lorraine, "don't start quarrelling in such a
hurry.  Try and be nice and polite to each other for a few minutes."

"Baby doesn't like me when I'm polite," said Hal.

"I've never had a chance to judge."

"Liar.  What about the first time we met?"

"I thought you were rather nice in those days.  Your offensive attitude
is only of comparatively recent date."

"Oh, don't sit there like a stodgy old book-worm, reeling off nicely
rounded sentences."

"I hope it might impress you with the incongruity of addressing me as
an infant."

Hal looked up from her lowly seat with a mischievous, engaging
expression.

"You know you really are rather clever in a useless sort of fashion,"
she informed him.

"Thank you," making a bow.

"Can't you tell him how to be clever in a useful sort of fashion, with
all your practical experience?" suggested Lorraine.

"Oh, I _could_; but what's the use? he doesn't want to know.  It would
mean hard work."

"Give him the benefit of a suggestion, anyhow."

"Well, other briefless barristers peg away at journalism, and political
agency work, and coaching, and studying.  Baby just sits down and looks
nice, as if he thought the briefs would come fluttering round him like
all the silly, pink-cheeked, wide-eyed girls.  You ought to have seen
our little maid the night he dined with us.  When she first saw him she
seemed to mutter 'O my' in a breathless fashion, and when she handed
him his plate, she spilt all the gravy on to his knee, gazing into his
face."

Hermon looked a little annoyed.  "Very few people can talk absolute rot
in a clever way," he aimed at her.

Hal laughed.

"Why, that drew you, Baby!  You look quite ruffled.  I was only pulling
your leg: the pink-cheeked girls don't really flutter round, they run
away in terror at your scowl.  You know he can scowl, Lorraine.  At
least it isn't exactly a scowl; it'smore a cast-iron solemnity of such
degree that it has a Medusa-like effect and freezes the poor little
peach-blossom girls into putty images."

"I'm sure Mr. Hermon never gives his personal appearance a thought,"
Lorraine replied, "except when you insist upon harping on it."

"I can't help it.  I feel he's hemmed in with such a sticky, treacly,
simpering amount of youthful adoration generally, that I simply have to
rag him for his good!"

"It's very kind of you to be so interested in my welfare" - a twinkle
gleamed suddenly in his blue eyes -  "I certainly like your way of
adoring the best."

"Ah" - with an answering twinkle - "I didn't think you had guessed my
secret.  How embarrassing of you!  You have positively driven me away."
 She rose to her feet.  "I must go, Lorry.  I can't sit out any more.
He has discovered that I adore him."

"You both seem rather imbecile to-night," Lorraine commented; "but
surely it needn't drive you away, Hal."

"I must go all the same.  We have visitors coming.  I shall run in
again to-morrow.  Be sure and 'phone me if there is anything I can do
for you."  She kissed Lorraine, and turned to Hermon.  "Good-bye.
Don't display all your best allurements to Lorraine this evening,
because she isn't strong enough for it.  Remember my unhappy plight,
and let one victim satisfy you for the present."

"What about your victims?" he asked.  "Dick is kicking the toes of his
boots thin because he saw you yesterday with Sir Edwin Crathie."

Hal coloured up, much to her own disgust, and greatly to Hermon's
enjoyment, who immediately followed up his advantage with:

"I suppose we shall all have to cry small now, because of the right
honourable gentleman."

"It will be a puzzler for you to cry small," was her rather feeble
retort, as she passed out.

Hermon came back and reseated himself in the big arm chair.

"May I stay?" he asked, and Lorraine answered:

"Yes, do," in the frank spirit she had told herself must be her
attitude towards him.

So he sat on with an air of content, seeming to fill some place in the
pretty room by right of an old comradeship, or some blood-tie, or a
mutual understanding - an intangible, indefinable attitude that had
sprung into being between them of itself.

Lorraine did not talk much, because she was tired, but she let the
goodly sight of him, and the quiet rest of him, lull and soothe her
senses for the passing moment without any disturbing questioning.
Hermon likewise did not question.  He liked being there, and she seemed
willing for him to stay, and it seemed enough.

Once or twice lately he was conscious that he had been rather foolish
with different admiring friends of the fair sex; and though he was no
prig, and knew most men took kisses and caressess when offered, and
would have thought it a needless throwing away of good things to
refuse, he yet felt a little irritated with himself and the givers
without quite knowing why.

And there was another trying incident over a girl he had met at various
country-houses the previous summer, and greatly enjoyed a flirtation
with.  Unfortunately, she appeared not to have understood it in the
light of a flirtation; and now she was writing him miserable,
reproachful love-letters which had at any rate succeeded in making him
wish he had been more circumspect.  It soothed his ruffled feelings to
be with Lorraine; and it flattered his vanity to feel that she liked
him there.

They had been sitting quietly some little time when the front-door bell
announced another caller, and Jean came to inquire if her mistress
would see Lord Denton.  Lorraine half unconsciously glanced at Hermon,
and seeing an expression of disappointment on his face, said quietly.
"Ask him to come to-morrow, Jean.  I am very tired to-night."

Jean went away, and presently returned with a loverly bouquet of
malmaisons, and three or four new books.  "His lordship will call about
twelve," she said: "and he hopes, if you feel able to go out, you will
let him take you in his motor."  Then she went out, leaving them alone
again.

In the pause that followed, Lorraine lay silently watching him for some
minutes, wondering what was passing  in his mind.  Although it was only
September still, the evenings were drawing in quickly, and there was
little light in the room except the flickering glow of cheerful flames
on the hearth.  They caught the glint of his hair and shone on his
face, throwing the delicate, aristocratic features with cameo-like
dinstinctness on the black shadow beyond.

Lorraine looked again, with the eyes of a connoisseur, and she knew
that in very truth no merely handsome face and form were here, but a
nature and character corresponding to the outward beauty of line and
lineament.  She wondered once more as she lay there what it must be to
have borne such a son; and a surging, aching, tearing pain filled her
heart for the longing to have known from experience.  She felt she
could have been a saint among women for very joy, and an ideal
companion, as well as a mother to such as he.

And instead? -

Well, there were murky corners in the background for her as well as her
mother, but never from actual seeking.  When necessity had not driven
her, loneliness had, and the gnawing ache of a fine, fearless soul to
grasp some satisfaction from the sorry scheme of things.  And always
the satisfaction had passed so quickly... so quickly, driving the
starved soul back on itself again, with a little extra weight added to
its burden of bitter knowledge.

Was there then no counterpart for her - no twin soul - no strong, true
comrade, to say "You and I" when sorrow and disillusion came, and so
rob pain of its deepest sting?

Then, as if he felt her scrutiny, he turned his face to her slowly, and
looked into her eyes.

"You know you are looking rather bad," he said a little awkwardly and
shyly.  "I'm awfully sorry.  I hope you are taking care of yourself."

"I don't suppose I should worry much if left to myself," she told him,
with a touch of lightness; "but a very stern physician, and a most
resolute maid, insist upon giving me every possible attention."

"It doesn't tire you... my being here?..."

"No; I like it."

"I wonder why?"

"Do you always want to know the why of things?"

"I'm afraid I don't as a rule bother much, but this is a little
amazing, isn't it?"

"I don't see why you should think so."

He studied the fire again.

"Only that you are at the top of the ladder, and I am at the bottom."

"I was once there too."

"And did it seem  as if it would be impossible ever to reach the top?"

"Yes, often.  I don't think anything but resolute, iron determination
ever takes any one up.  Influence helps a good many up the lower rungs,
and saves them a lot of the drudgery, but it cannot do much else, and
unless one is full of grit and purpose at heart, one sticks there."

"Still, it must be a great help to be pulled through the drudgery."

"It may mean a good deal of loss also."

"How?"

"I don't suppose success that is won through favour means half so much
to the winner as success that is wrenched from Fate by one's own
resolute hands.  The only thing is, one wonders so often afterwards if
it has been worth while.""
"Do you wonder that?"

"Ah!... don't I?"

He said nothing, and she went on:

"All the same, I imagine I had to succeed or die.  I was built that
way.  Nothing less than success would have satisfied me.  I often crave
for quiet, restful happiness now, but if it had been offered then I
should have passed it by and struggled blindly for fame.  Still, it is
hard to think how easily one can take a false step, and suffer for it
till the end."

"Did you do that?"

He turned his eyes to her again, and she saw as sympathy in them that
was deeper than any feeling he had shown her yet.

"Yes.  I was in a very tight corner, and I took a short cut out.  I
married for money and influence.  The step brought me all I
anticipated, but it brought other things as well, that I had chosen not
to remember: nausea, ennui, self-disgust, loneliness, emptiness.  I
think I should never have won through without Hal."

"And is your husband living?"

"Yes.  In America.  We have not troubled each other for a long time.  I
suppose I am fortunate in being left alone."  She was silent a few
minutes, and then she told him kindly: "Hal says they always chaff you
about marrying an heiress, for the sake of being rich without any need
to work; but take my advice, and don't force the hand of Fate before
she has had time to give you good things in her own time."

He turned to her with a very engaging smile as he answered:

"They chaff me about a good many things, but most of them are a little
wide of the mark.  I haven't any leaning at present towards a paid post
as husband."

"I'm glad; but I didn't for a moment suppose you had seriously.  I
wonder what you have a leaning towards?" she added.

"I should like to succeed."  He sat forward suddenly and leaned his
chin on his hands, resting his elbows on his knees, and stared hard at
the flames.  "I care a great deal more about succeeding really than any
one believes; but I'm afraid I'm not cut out for it."

"I should like to help you," she said simply.

"You are very good," he answered, still looking hard into the fire.

Lorraine got up and moved slowly about the room, touching a flower
here, and a flower there, and rearranging them with deft fingers.  She
turned on an electric light with a soft shade, and glanced at the books
Flip Denton had brought her.

Hermon sat back in his chair and watched her.  He thought he had never
seen her lovelier than she looked in the homely simplicity of a
graceful tea-gown, and her thick black hair coiled in a large loose
knot low  on her neck.  It gave her an absurdly youthful air, that
somehow seemed far removed from the brilliant star as he knew her on
the stage.

Then she came towards him, and stood beside him, resting one foot on
the fender and one hand on the mantelpiece; and he saw, with swift
seeing, the shapeliness of the long, thin fingers and the graceful,
rounded arm.

"You are thoughtful, _mon ami_," she said, with a soft lightness.
"Tell me what you are thinking of."

"I don't know.  I don't think I am thinking at all.  I feel rather as
if I were sunning myself in your smiles, like a cat."

"You like being here, like this?"

"I love it."

"Then come often.  Why not?"

"I shall bore you."

"I think not.  It is pleasant to me also to have some one keeping me
company in such a natural, homely way.  You see, I am very much alone.
I have no women friends except Hal, who is nearly always engaged; and
there are not many men one can invite to come and sit by one's
fireside.  You seem to come so naturally and simply.  It is clever of
you.  Very few men could.  It is difficult to believe you are only
twenty-four."

"I fancy years often do not go for very much.  I have travelled about
alone a great deal.  Anyhow, you are just as young for thirty-two as I
am old for twenty-four."

"Hal has helped to keep me young.  She restores me like some patent
elixir.  I suppose I love her more than any one in the world."

"I'm not surprised," he answered.  "A good many people love Hal.  Dick
and Quin just dote on her."

She looked at him keenly a moment.

"I am spared wasting my affection," he added, "by her obvious contempt
for me."

"She doesn't mean any of it.  She only wants to rouse you."

"Still, she succeeds in making me feel rather a worm."

Lorraine made no comment, but she could not resist a little inward
smile at the thought of any one making such a man feel a worm.  She
realised there might be no harm in the leavening influence.

The clock struck seven, and he gave a start, rising quickly to his feet
beside her.  Lorraine was a little under medium height if anything, and
as they stood together he seemed to tower above her like some splendid
prehistoric human, while she appeared as some exquisite miniature, or
frail and perfect piece of Dresden china.

And again it seemed  as if his physical beauty acted upon her with some
irresistible magnetism, flowing round her and over her and through her,
till she was enveloped and obsessed by him.

His age was nothing, years are mere detail; she felt only that he was a
splendid creature, and everything in her gloried in it.  She rested her
hand lightly on his arm.

"How big you are.  You almost overpower me."

He smiled down at her, but it was just a quiet, friendly smile, and she
could not tell if her touch stirred him.

"I'm afraid I am rather a monster.  It is sometimes a nuisance."

"Ah, don't say that.  I am quite sure the first Adam was as big as you,
and Eve was frightened and ran away, but she wouldn't for the world
have had him an inch smaller.  And every true Eve since has gloried in
the man who towered above her, and was a little terrifying in his
strenght.  Don't let them spoil you," she added with a note of
wistfulness, "all the Eves who must needs follow with or without  your
bidding."

"I imagine Hal will counteract much of that; and the feeling, when I am
with you, that I am just a great, brainless, useless animal."

"No; you are not that; and you are quite extraordinarily unspoilt as
yet.  Come and see me again soon, when you've nothing better to do."

"How soon?"

He was looking hard into her face now, almost as if he were only just
fully realising her beauty, and she flushed a little as she met his
ardent eyes and answered:

"As soon as you like."

"Friday is my first free evening."

"The come and dine here quietly.  I shall not act this week at all.  I
shall run down to the sea from Saturday to Monday."

She had intended to go on Friday afternoon, but with his nearness all
Flip Denton's sage advice vanished from her mind, and instead of
running away as he urged, she went a step nearer to the temptation.

When he had gone she sat down in the arm chair he had used, and stared
hard at the fire.  Jean came in to urge her to go to bed, but she only
said:

"No; I like this room and the fire.  Bring me the fish, or whatever it
is, here.  I will go to bed about half-past eight if you like, but not
before."

So she sat on, and in her heart she saw still the fine face, with its
unspoiled freshness, and felt his presence still filling the room.

It would seem Fate had brought her and Hal together into the arena of
new happenings and new feelings, for amont the crowded houses of
Bloomsbury, in a little high-up bedroo near the sky, Hal sat on the
edge of her bed leisurely brushing her long, bright hair, and pondering
a telephone message that had asked her to go for a motor ride the
following Saturday.

"It means putting Amy off," was her final cogitation, "but I think I'll
go.  It wil be such fun, and I'm rather sick of work."

So, in spite of strong wills and common-sense warning, we still, as
ever, let our footsteps follow the alluring paths, and go boldly forth
to meet a joy, ever careless of the following sorrow that may accompany
it, until the hour of shunning is past.





CHAPTER XVI


The following Friday afternoon Lorraine went out with Flip Denton in
his motor, and among his first questions was:

"Well, how is the foolish falling in love progressing?"

"It is stationary.  I've got another friend I want to keep, Flip;
another friend like you."

"Ah, I can't pass that.  You were never even remotely in sight of
falling in love with me.  And you know what Kipling says: 'Love's like
line-work; you can't stand still, you must go backward or forward.'
You don't propose to take my advice and run away from it?"

"Not before I am sure there is danger, anyhow."

They were silent some moments, then she asked him:

"Do men ever run away, Flip?...  My experience has been that the
average man always has a good try to get what he wants, without much
consideration for outside things, or for youth, or for harm."

"That's because beautiful women necessarily come up against the worst
in men.  It is their fate: one of the balancing conditions perhaps to
make things more even with the less-favoured women."

"I suppose great beauty generally undoes a woman.  Is it the same with
men too?  It seems a pity when Nature produces anything beautiful she
should not guard it better - beautiful flowers, beautiful birds,
beautiful creatures all ravished the quickest; while the little,
comfortable daisies, and sparrows, and homely people go serenely on
unharmed."

He did not reply, and they sped along in the understanding silence they
were both so fond of.

Denton was thinking, as a man may, of various pretty faces that had
been the undoing of their owners, and wondering a little dimly and
confusedly about the paradoxical contrariness of Nature, who gives a
man his strongest desires nearly always towards forbidden ends.  Why
create a beautiful thing, and then create a longing for it, and then
probably descend in wrath upon both heads which did but follow the bent
she herself had given them?

Lorraine was wondering a little bitterly why a man may taste forbidden
fruit again and again and go unpunished; and why a woman, so often set
amid sterner temptations, was yet left so strangely unprotected: the
one so quickly able to put an incident aside, and seek fresh fields for
conquest; the other so terribly liable to be branded for life in that
same incident.

It made a bitterness surge up in her soul for her own unprotected
girlhood and struggling youth; and for all they had brought her to
learn of the tree of knowledge.  No doubt she had been callous enough
about it at the time; eager only to dare, and triumph, and achieve; but
how should it have been otherwise, since no kindly guiding hand had
told her she was wasting her powers and her substance to achieve an end
that would never satisfy her soul?

Did she even know she had a soul that would presently crave a
satisfaction found only among the higher and better things, and turn
away with infinite scorn from the petty triumphs of an hour or a day?

Well, she had fought her fight with the rest, and triumphed greatly in
the world's eyes; and now she must abide by the path she had chosen,
and glean the best satisfaction she could out of it.

And yet -

Later in the afternoon, when she sat drinking a lonely cup of tea by a
lonely fireside, the questioning, probing mood returned again; the
significant "and yet" still left the last conclusion without any
finality.  Looking backward, a sense of resentment seemed to creep over
her; a combative desire to get even with Fate about many things while
there was time nd opportunity.

She remembered particularly the first man who had tried to lead her
astray.  He had been considerably more than twice her age, a hardened
sinner without any compunction, with a devilish cunning at breaking
down defences without any seeming over-persuasion, and at whitewashing
his actions into passionate devotion to youngn inexperienced years.
She remembered how she had struggled to resist him.  It was good to
remember now that she had not been his victim.

And yet, what of it, while such men could triumph again and again and
go seemingly unpunished, and young, eager, ambitious souls were often
so pitifully stranded at the beginning of a career?

Men of his age and his character usually did triumph.  How often had
she seen it since!  The first wrong step not a generous-hearted,
hot-headed youth; but a hardened sinner who had wearied of other
hardened sinners and turned his evil designs to youth and freshness,
hoping perchance to be rejuvenated thereby.

And Nature stood by with folded hands, and saw her fairest creations
soiled and ravished before they had reached maturity, without
apparently the smallest compunction.

Her first wrong step had been her marriage, and though it had given her
a good deal in the beginning, in the end how it had robbed her!... ah!
how it had robbed her of those things that could never be won back.

And now, by an unlooked-for turn of events, she found herself among the
world-wearied ones, asking for the divine freshness of youth.  If she
chose to make him love her she believed she could.

And yet? -

She stood beside the window and leaned her haid against the framework,
gazing at the river.  It was gliding smoothly along now, beautified and
glorified by the reflected light of a setting sun.  How light
transfigured!

The murky, muddy, sullen Thames, so often going with its countless
burdens, as one enslaved unwillingly to the needs of commerce, now
flashing, shining, silver waters hastening joyfully out to sea.  She
felt that often and often her life had been as the shadowed, murky
waters, enslaved unwillingly by bonds that circumstances had created.

She thought how his life, the life of this man who was beginning to
fill her soul, was still like the joyous, shining, waters reflecting
sunlight.  Was it possible she wanted to bring the shadows and dim its
silver radiance for her own gratifications?

And even so, was it in any case likely to go undimmed much longer?  The
shadows were certain enough to come, if not through her, perhaps
through some one with less soul, and less fineness of aim, who would do
him far greater harm.  Her love for him was not, at least, entirely
selfish.

She knew that she cared very much for his future.  She cared very much
that life should give him a chance to fulfill the best of his promise.

And if the chance came by shadows, well, across the river of a man's
life they flitted lightly enough as a rule, chasing each other away,
and leaving the waters still flowing joyfully.  It was only for a
woman, apparently, the shadows left a stain that even the sunlight
could not chase away.

It would seem woman was made a helpmeet for man in many ways beside
that of keeping his home and bearing his children.  How often dit he
owe his best development and best achievements to her, absorbing light
from her in some mysterious ordering, and soaring away afterwards while
she was left among the shadows.

Yet, by some equally mysterious compensation, a woman was often so
fashioned that if she could feel the upward flight was won through her,
she might rest statisfied even though him she loved had soared away.
It was the mother-love blending strangely with the wife-love; the
protecting, inspiring, unselfish, mothering instinct, lying in the soul
of every true-hearted woman.

Standing gazing at the flashing river, Lorraine, in the midst of her
probing, knew that it was his ultimate success and good she wanted, as
well as his freshness to sweeten her own life.

And yet? -

What if she brought a shadow where there would otherwise have been no
shadow, dimmed a brightness that, without her, had gone undimmed?  She
knew he was not weak naturally.  He did not need any strengthening;
only impetus, ambition, aim, and some safeguarding by the way.

She smiled a little drearily at the recollection that it was from her,
herself, that probably his own people would think he needed
safeguarding.  She could foresee that they would likely enough hurl
themselves between him and her, oblivious that by doing so they might
very possibly be the cause of driving him to far worse.  But that, of
course, no one could help; as how should they know the fine shades
between the women who lived outside the conventions?

But then again, they need not know that the great friendship existed -
why should they?  After all, few would credit the celebrated, beautiful
actress with anything beyond a passing fancy for the youthful,
briefless barrister.

And yet? -

Across every fresh pathway she turned her thoughts along, was still
that arresting, intangible, "and yet".

The pity of it!  At least he was strong, and true, and unspoilt now.
Why not give life a chance to leave him so?

Why not give Fate a chance to endow him quickly with the rich, blessed
love that kept a man walking straight and strong along his steadfast
way?

But again the thought came back of what he would lose, what he must
inevitably lose, if he missed the storm and stress and struggle that
are as the mill and furnace through wich the gold is refined, and
hardened, and separated from the dross.

She went back to the fireside feeling that her probing had brought her
nowhither, and that she was only very tired and very depressed.

Then she went slowly  away to dress, and chose, somewhat to Jean's
surprise, one of the simplest evening frocks she possessed.  Jean,
knowing the tall, beautiful new friend was coming to dinner, had laid
out an elaborate dinner-dress, and arranged the jewel cases for
selection.

"Put them away at once," was all her mistress said, with one sweeping
glance round.  "I shall wear that little blue Liberty gown and a single
row of pearls."

When Alymer came he found her already seated by the fire, engaged with
some knitting.

"How nice and homely," he said.  "I never associated you with anything
so commonplace as sewing."

"I'm afraid I can't sew very well," with a little smile.  "I can knit
this, and that is about all."

"Are you better?" and he scanned her face critically, in an
old-fashioned way that gave her secret yoy.

"Yes, sir, thnak you," with a low laugh.

He laughed too, and took up his stand on the hearthrug, with his hands
behind his back, in a natural, quite-at-home way, that seemed to come
easily to him.

"How jolly it is to see a fire.  My mater always seems afraid of
beginning too soon.  I think she has a sort of feeling that if winter
sees fires started he will hurry."

"I never leave them off.  My fire is one of my staunchest companions.
An empty grate always depresses me,  because if it is sunny and hot I
want to be out-of-doors, and if it is not, I want my fire.  Let us go
to dinner, then we can get back and purr over it to our hearts'
content."

Because it pleased her to make him an honoured guest, Lorraine had been
at considerable pains in ordering her dinner, and she was gratified to
observe that it was not wasted on him.

Certainly, among other things at Oxford he had learnt to know a good
dinner and good wine, and enjoy them as a connoisseur.  It amused her
also to observe that the old-fashioned air with which he had inquired a
little masterfully after her health, grew upon him as the evening
progressed.

She thought he must be a little bit of a tyrant to his mother, and any
one he was specially fond of.  Not dictatorially so, but with a
humorous, half-satirical insistence that was very engaging.

When the sat over the fire together, later, she found herself telling
him many things about her early struggles, and first successes, not in
the least in a "talking down" attitude, but as to a very sympathetic
companion of her own age.

It was evident he was truly interested, and this made him a charming
listener.  And he told her yet further of his own hopes, and
disappointments, and discouragements.  Several times since he took his
degree, one friend or another had held out hopeful expectations of
being able to put him  on to this case of that, which might bring a
brief.  And always the hope had failed, and the promise ended in smoke.

She gave him sympathy in her turn, and said she would not raise his
expectations unkindly, but she believed she could really help him to
get a start.  She would speak to Lord Denton about it.  He was always
ready to do a little thing like that for her.

"He is one of those dear people," she told him, "who seem to try to
make up for their own incorrigible laziness by going out of their way
to put some one else in the way of a start."

She saw the colour deepen in his face, and a subdued light shine in his
eyes, as he thanked her rather haltingly.  The little show of
diffidence was very charming.  How far removed, how amazingly far
removed he was from the average good-looking youth of twenty-four, who
was usually so anxious to impress every one with his attributes and his
powers.

And he was not even average.  Every time she saw him she wondered
afresh at his extraordinary wealth of attraction.  One could have
forgiven him a few airs and mannerisms; but no forgiveness was asked:
in every single phrase she found him always the modest, unassuming,
high-bred gentleman.

So they sat on and talked, and for the time being the warfare of the
afternoon passed from her mind.  Probing seemed suddenly out of place.
Why probe?...  Their friendship had slipped of itself into an old
companionship.  What need for more?  She knew instinctively he would
come often to fill her lonely hours, and tell her all about his work
and his doings.

And sometimes they would go out together on little jaunts.  If they
did, who need know, or who, at any rate, need gossip?  She felt a
gladness grow in her mind at the thought of the happy friendship they
might have; guarded perhaps from harm by the disparity in their years,
and at the same time of inestimable benefit to him, and pleasure to
her.  She felt almost motherly as she laid her fingers lightly on his
arm, with a little laughing jest, as they stood together before parting.

"I have enjoyed my evening of invalidism so much.  Come and see me
again soon, won't you?"

"I should love to.  You are very good to me."

"Oh, no; I'm not.  Don't let us talk of goodness in that way.  I like
your company; and it is good to have what one likes.  I shall expect
you again soon, Alymer - I may call you Alymer, mayn't I?...  Mr.
Hermon is so overpowering."

"I wish you would.  I would have asked you, only I was afraid you might
think it cheek."

"Very well then, _Alymer_," with emphasis, "when I have spoken to Lord
Denton I will telephone you; and I hope he will be able to start you
off on a road that will very nearly end in a verdict of 'Suffocated
with briefs.'"

"Or 'briefly suffocated'," he laughed, and beat a hasty retreat, for
fear of a reprisal.

When he had gone, Lorraine sat again in the firelight, and it seemed as
if the stress and unrest had fallen from her, and only the memory of a
pleasant companionship remained.  They were going to be the best of
pals - why not - and why seek to probe any further?

Apparently he was not susceptible, and cared more for his profession
than any one supposed, and so, since she liked to have him there to
glory in his comeliness, they could form a mutual benefit society, and
no one need be hurt at all.  It was all quite simple, and she went to
bed feeling rested and refreshed, and looking forward hopefully for the
pleasant meetings to come?

Flip Denton was running down to Brighton for the week-end also, to take
her out on the Sunday in his car; and he noticed at once that a shadow
wich had hovered over her eyes of late had vanished.

"You are looking topping," he told her.  "What about the love affair,
is it all satisfactorily off?  It has been worrying you a little of
late."

"It is not exactly off," she replied, "but it is more satisfactorily
placed.  We are going to be real good pals.  He is going to keep me
company in some of my lonely hours, and I am going to try and help him
to get briefs.  I am relying on you for the first one, Flip."

"The dickens you are.  My dear girl, why should I put myself out to
acquire a brief for a rival?"

"Oh, just because you are you.  You know you will love it, Flip!  You
will get him a brief, and then you will pat yourself on the back and
say: 'I know I'm a lazy dog myself, but I'm a devil of a good chap at
getting other fellows work.'"

"So I am" - enjoying her thrust - "and it's a splendid line, and gives
far more satisfaction in the end.  If I tried to work I should only
make a mess of it, and drive some one nearly crazy, whereas, in putting
another chap on to a job I give such a lot of folks pleasure, I feel I
am getting square with the Almighty."

"Then you'll try, Flip?"

"It is humanly possible, he shall have a brief of his very own within
the next month."

"You are a dear.  Sometimes I think you are the most adorable person I
know."

"You don't think it long enough at a time, Lorry.  You are too prone to
go off suddenly after false gods measuring six-foot-five-and-a-half
inches and with the faces of Apollo Belvederes."

"Probably it is a merciful precaution on the part of our guardian
angels, Flip; and, anyhow, you know you like a little variation
yourself in the way of bulk, and sound, practical, indecorous chorus
girldom."

"I do," was his unabashed affirmative.  "Nice, comfortable, elevating
palliness with you; and a right down rollicking bust-up occasionally
with the ladies of the unpretending school of wild oats."

"I want my giant for the present to be satisfied with his palliness
with me and his work.  Do you think he will?"

"As I haven't seen him I can't say.  If I get the chance, however, I'll
tell him that "wild oats' are the very devil, and I'd give all I've got
to have stuck to work and had naught to do with'em."

"You know you wouldn't, Flip," with a little laugh.

"I know I couldn't, you mean; but I never admit it to juniors."

"Well, you shall come to the flat to meet him.  If he gets a brief,
we'll have a little dinner party, and I'll ask Hal and her cousin and
St. Quintin."

"Right you are.  I haven't seen Miss Pritchard for ages.  Shall we turn
now, and go back by Rottingdean?"

"Let us go wichever way has the best view of the sea.  I feel I want to
look at wide, breezy spaces for a while, and not talk at all."

"You shall," he promised, and they sped along in silence.





CHAPTER XVII


When Hall sat on the side of her bed, brushing her hair and meditating
on her irritation, she had not misjudged when she anticipated great
enjoyment from an afternoon run with her new friend.

It would have been difficult indeed to say who enjoyed it the most.
Hal was in great form, and Sir Edwin Crathie half unconsciously took
his tone from her, dropping his usual attitude towards women he liked,
and adopting instead one as gay and careless and inconsequent as hers.

It was not in the nature of the man to desist from flirting with her,
but his pretty speeches were coupled with a humour and chaff that
robbed them of any pointedness, and merely resulted in an amusing
amount of parry and thrust, over which they both laughed
whole-heartedly.

"You are an absolute witch," he told her as they sat enjoying  a big
tea at an hotel on the south coast; "ever since we started you have
made me behave more or less like a school-boy, and a tea like this is
the climax."

"It's a good thing I am the only witness," she laughed.  "The poorness
of your jokes alone would have horrified your colleagues, but to see
you eating such a tea must have meant a request for your resignation -
it is so incompatible with the dignity of a Cabinet Minister."

"I had almost forgotten I was a Cabinet Minister.  Gad! but it's nice
to get right away from the cares of office occasionally like this.
When will you come again?"

"Oh, I don't think I must come any more," roguishly.  "I'm sure Brother
Dudley will not consent."

"What has Brother Dudley go to do with it?...  Did he consent this
time?"

"Not exactly.  I anticipated his willingness."

"You little fibber.  You mean you anticipated his firm refusal, and
took French leave, so that you need not disobey him."

"It is true that Dudley and I differ occasionally, but I do not disobey
him... if I can help it."

"Well, if you took French leave this time, you can easily do it again."

"But this time it was a novelty.  I was curious to find out how I
should enjoy an afternoon with you?"

"Rubbish.  You knew perfectly well you would enjoy it immensely.  So
did I.  Two people who like each other always know those kind of things
at once."

Hal leaned back in her chair, and her expressive mouth twitched in a
way that made him long to kiss it hard.

"There are occasions when I don't like you at all," she said.

"Fibber again.  When don't you like me?"

"Chiefly when you are quite positive certain sure that I do."

"Well, that is never; so you are a fibber."

"I thought you seemed particularly confident nine seconds ago."

"I was only teasing you.  I could hardly have been serious after you
have called me a worm, and an old man.  So now - when will you come
again?"

"In about a month.  Let's go out as Guys on the fifth of November."

"A month be blowed!  I want to know which day next week?"

"I am full up next week."

"Full up of what?"

"Lorraine Vivian, Dick Bruce, Quin, the Beloved Chief, and the Baby."

"What a list!  Is Lorraine Vivian the actress?  Who are Quin and the
Baby?"

"She is... and they are!..."

"Who does the Baby belong to?"

"It would be difficult to say.  About a dozen probably claim him."

"And doesn't he know his own mother?"

"Oh, I wasn't thinking of mothers."

"Who were you thinking of?"

"The ladies who have lost their hearts to him."

"I see.  Are you one of them?"

"I am not.  You see, his beauty has never struck me all of a heap,
because I've got so used to it."

"Is he a beautiful baby, or a youth, or a man?"

"A bit of all three.  He stands 6 ft. 5 1/2 in., and is superbly
handsome.  I call him sometimes, for variation, the stuffed
blue-and-gold Apollo."

"Well, that's better than 'a positive worm'," laughing, "but I don't
mind him.  Who is Quin?"

"Quin is a philanthropist, sentimentalist, and hero.  He spends his
life working in the East End."

"I don't mind him either, and Dick Bruce I've seen.  The actress
doesn't count, and your precious chief you see every day.  Now, then,
when will you come again?"

He got up from his seat and came round to her side of the table.  He
had a vague intention of imprisoning her hand, and perhaps her waist,
but some indescribable quality held him off.  It was difficult to
suppose she did not half guess what was in his mind, and yet, without
showing the smallest consciousness or shyness, she faced him with a
look so boyishly frank and open it utterly disarmed him.

"I am not a bit more persuasive on my right side than my left, and I
have promised next Saturday to the Three Graces - who are Dick and Quin
and Baby.  We are going to the Crystal Palace to see a football match."

"Then what about Sunday?"

"Oh, I can't come on Sunday."

"Why not?"

"I hardly know, except that it usually belongs to Dudley or Dick."

"Next Sunday needn't."

"Well, that's what I don't know."

"Yes you do."  He moved a little nearer.  "You've got to keep next
Sunday for me.  It's my turn.  We'll have a splendid day.  We'll take
Peter, and we'll start early and fly down to the New Forest.  It's
glorious in the autumn.  We'll have a picnic-lunch, and tea at an hotel
on the way back.  So that's settled."  He got up, and lifted her ulster
from the back of a chair.  "Now come along, and we'll slip home before
it gets late enough to cause trouble."

Hal let it pass for the time, and got into her ulster.  She was clever
enough to see the advantage of retaining a way of escape if she changed
her mind, or accepting the invitation if she wanted to later on.

She knew perfectly well a girl did not always go out for a whole day
with a man like Sir Edwin with impunity; but she had also something of
contempt for a girl who missed a great treat for want of pluck.  She
preferred to leave the question open, and if she badly wanted to go at
the end of the week she would not, at any rate, stay away because she
was afraid.

As it happened, circumstances played into Sir Edwin Crathie's hands.
About Wednesday, with a diffidence that made Hal secretly amused and
secretly curious, Dudley asked her if she would mind if he was away for
the whole day on Sunday.  As she was generally away herself as long as
the summer lasted, she wondered why he should ask her in that manner.
It was just as they had finished breakfast, and he busied himself with
his pipe-rack as he made the announcement.

"Of course I don't mind," she said.  "Are you going into the country?"

"Ye-es."  He seemed about to add something further, but changed his
mind.  Hal, with a little inward chuckle, divined by his manner he must
be going somewhere with a lady, and she was pleased, as she liked a man
to have woman friends, believing they made him more broad-minded and
tolerant and generous-hearted if well-chosen.

She asked no further question, however, and Dudley commenced to whistle
softly as he drew on his boots.  Evidently his mind was somewhat
relieved after the sentence was said.

So now it remained to discover Dick's attitude.  She could, of course,
quite easily put him off; but she was not quite prepared to do this of
her own initiative, as he had so generously placed all his Sundays at
her disposal.  On Friday, however, he was speaking to her through the
telephone.

"I say, Hal, you're coming to the Footer match to-morrow, aren't you?"

"Yes, of course I am.  Why?..."

"Well, it's just this way.  I was going to motor the pater to Aunt
Judith's, and I forgot all about it.  He wants me to take him on Sunday
instead.  What shall I do?...  Would you care to come too?"

Hal had not the smallest wish to go to Aunt Judith's, who belonged to
the old school, and disapproved in a most outspoken manner of
lady-clerks of every sort and description.  It was a constant grievance
to her, when she set eyes on Hal,that she did not gratefully accept 20
as secretary to a well-known, interesting editor.

In consequence, Hal encountered her as little as possible, accepted
gratefully her interesting, easy billet, and consigned the imaginary
young children to a Hades peopled with nursery governesses.

"Awfully sweet and good and kind of you, Dicky dear," she called back
to him mockingly, "but I think I'll practise a little self-denial this
time, and stay away."

"Odd you should say that," he laughed, "because I consider I'm
practising a little self-denial in going.  What shall you do with
yourself?  Will Dudley be at home?"

"No; he's going somewhere for the day, that has a nervous, apologetic
sort of air about it.  I didn't press for particulars, but I'm dying to
know.  I can't believe he would really take a gay young person out, and
yet, judging by his manner, it might be a real flyer from Daly's."

"Good old Dudley!...  Then I suppose you will go to Lorraine?"

"Yes, I daresay I shall.  Good-bye, see you Saturday."

Hal returned to her work in a meditative mood.  She was beginning to
wonder why she had not had any message from Sir Edwin all the week.
Had he changed his mind, or had he possibly forgotten?  If he rang her
up presently what was she going to say?

The notion that he had perhaps forgotten was not pleasing; and yet,
with all he must have to think about during the week, it was equally
not surprising.  As a matter of fact, it had been a most trying week
for all Ministers.

The party was emphatically growing into disfavour, and all brains had
to be utilised to find the most efficacious remedy.  Sir Edwin had been
very useful in his suggestions, for he had had considerable practice in
getting what he wanted by artfulness if no straighter mode offered.

His suggestions to His Majestu's Cabinet were masterpieces of political
trickery, and their adoption was a foregone conclusion in spite of the
Ministers who raised objections.  The party had to win back favour
somehow, and at any rate his were the best plans that offered.

But all through the stirring meetings of the week he never once forgot
Hal.  His silence was merely an adaptation of the policy he was urging
upon his colleagues.  If I leave her alone till Friday she will get
piqued," was his thought, "and then she will come."

Accordingly, soon after the luncheon hour he rang her up.

"Hullo," he called.  "At last I have got a moment to speak to you."

"What has happened to all the other moments?" she asked.

"We've had a very anxious, worrying week in the House.  I've scarcely
had time to get my meals.  You surely didn't suppose I had forgotten
you - did you?"

"I didn't suppose either way.  It didn't matter."

The man at the other end of the wire smiled openly in his empty room.
"Prevaricator," was his thought 'but, by Gad, she's game."

"Well, anyhow I hadn't, and I wasn't likely to.  I only hope you
haven't made another engagement for Sunday?  I'm badly in need of a
long day in the country.  Are you still free?"

"It depends -"

"Oh, nonsense; you can't desert me at the last moment.  If I can't get
that day off to run down to the New Forest, I shall have to go to a
tiresome political luncheon party.  Now, be patriotic, and serve your
country by attending to the needs of one of her harassed Ministers."

"I am always patriotic."

"Then that settles it.  I suppose I'd better not call for you.  I'll
pick you up at South Kensington Station at 9.30.  Peter will make an
excellent chaperone, so you needn't worry - good-bye"; and he rang off,
leaving Hal to hang up the receiver, not quite sure whether she had
been trapped or not.

At his end he moved across to a window with the smile still lingering
on his face.

"Nothing like making up a woman's mind for her," he mused; "they're all
alike when they are on the edge of the stream, hesitating about the
plunge.  Give 'em a little shove, and once they're in they swim out
boldly enough.  The trouble is, when they want to keep the whole river
for themselves and will not brook any other swimmers.

"I expect I'm going to have a devil of a time with Gladys, and she'll
take a lot of squaring.  Women are the deuce when you're short of
funds.  But I can't help being susceptible, and Hal has caught my fancy
altogether.  Dear little girl, I expect she'll want a big shove yet
before she'll take the real plunge.  But it's interesting, by Jove!
it's interesting; and when she looks a veiled defiance at me with those
candid, mischievous eyes of hers, I know I've got to win somehow."

Hal went back to her work, feeling a little as if she had been swept
off her feet; and she was not entirely without misgivings.  The
possible impropriety of going out alone with a man for the whole day
did not rouble her, but the nature of the man, she was shrewd enough to
perceive, was a doubtful point.

Of course she was perfectly aware that Aunt Judith, for instance, and
Dudley, and probably her mother, had she been alive, would have been
scandalised at such a proceeding; but then she had pluckily fended for
herself so long, she did not consider she was any longer called upon to
mould her actions according to their views.  She belonged to the large
army of women who have to spend so much of their time on office chairs
that their comparatively few hours of pleasure have no room for the
ordinary conventions that hem round the leisured, home-walled maiden.

If a treat offered, and it was reasonably within bounds, they took it
and were thankful and gave no thought to the possibly uplifted hands of
horror among possibly restricted relatives.  She was one of those who
enjoy the freedom of the American girl, without being of those who,
unfortunately, often fall short of her level-headed characteristics;
largely perhaps through those very uplifted hands which suggest harm,
where harm otherwise might never have been thought of.

It was not, now, any suggestions born of uplifted hands that gave Hal
that faint misgiving.  It was that growing doubt concerning the nature
of the man, and a consciousness that she was unduly pleased the treat
was actually to take place - a growing consciousness that in spite of
the doubt she cared more about seeing Sir Edwin Crathie than most men,
with a like recognition that this might seriously endanger her own
peace of mind.

It was all very well to go out together on a basis of good-fellowship
and mutual enjoyment, so long as neither care anything beyond; but what
if this unmistakable attraction he exercised over her deepened and
widened?  What if the commonplace, middle-class Hal Pritchard,
secretary and typist, fell in love with Sir Edwin Crathie, the Cabinet
Minister, and nephew of Lord St. Ives?

But she thrust the thought away, and apostrophised herself for a silly
goose, who deserved to get hurt if she had not more sense.  Was he not
twice her age, and brilliantly clever (so his own party said), and so
obviously out of her range altogether that it would be sheer stupidity
to allow herself to feel anything beyond the frank fellow-ship they now
enjoyed?  She insisted vigorously to herself that it would, and went
off to have dinner with Lorraine, who was once more delighting her
London audience nightly.

It was a curious thing which occured to both afterwards, that there had
been some indefinable change, observable in each to each, dating from
that particular evening.

Lorraine was more contentedly gay than she had been for some time - a
quiet, natural light-heartedness, born of some attainment that was
giving her joy.  Hal was not clever enough to actually perceive this,
but she did perceive that a certain restless, anxious indecision of
manner and plans had passed away.  For the time being Lorraine was
happy in a sense she had not been over her success.  That Alymer Hermon
had anything to do with it never entered Hal's head.  She had treated
the whole matter of Lorraine's attraction to him with the lightness
that seemed its only claim, and scarcely remembered it at all.

And yet, all the time, it was the young giant who was bringing the
soothing and restfulness into the actress's storm-tossed life.  He was
beginning to be with her constantly - to come to her with all his
doings, and his imagings, and his hopes.  And, as she had suspected,
natural or unnatural, he was the companion of all others who gave her
the most pleasure at the time.

World-wearied and brain-wearied with her own unsatisfying successes,
she found a new interest in entering into his projects, and scheming
and dreaming for his future instead of her own.

She was quite open to herself about the probability that she would have
felt nothing of the kind had he been merely a giant, or had he been
plain.  It was the rare, and indeed remarkable combination of such
physical attributes, with brains, and nobility and an utter absence of
all assumption.

She forgot about his youth and a certain natural crudity; and what he
lacked in experience and development she easily balanced with the
extraordinary physical attraction that had never ceased to sway her.

For the rest, the future might go.  Her friendship would not hurt him,
and his had become necessary to her.  If they dreamed over a volcano,
what of it?  Most dreams for such lives as hers usually were in close
proximity to sudden destruction.  Waves from nowhere came up and
overwhelmed them.  Rocks from unseen heights fell on them and crushed
them.  If she was wise she would take what the present offered, and
leave the future alone.

For Hal, on the other hand, had developed something of the restlessness
that had fallen from Lorraine.  The new element dawning in her life was
not a restful one; neihter did it lend itself to her usual spontaneous
chaff and gay badinage.

She told Lorraine about her afternoon drive, without giving half the
particulars she would have done ordinarily; and when Lorraine asked her
about Sunday, she only said she was perhaps going for another run with
Sir Edwin.  Lorraine did not press the point, because she was having a
day with Alymer, and was chiefly glad that Hal was happily provided
with a companion to take Dick's place.

Then she went off to her theatre, and Hal went home, wishing the next
day were Sunday.





CHAPTER XVIII


Dudley hardly new, himself, why he spoke diffidently about his plans
for Sunday, and why he did not tell Hal outright that he was taking
Doris Hayward to a picnic at Marlow, given by mutual friends of his and
theirs - friends of the old vigorous days, when he and Basil Hayward
had gone everywhere together, and Hal had still been a boisterous
schoolgirl.  Perhaps he felt she might seem to have been rather
unkindly left out.

As a matter of fact, an invitation to include his sister had been
given; but, for reasons he hardly stopped to face, he chose not to
mention it.  That was after he had learnt from a visit to the little
Holloway flat that nothing would persuade Ethel to leave her brother,
who had been ailing more than usual of late, and Doris would accompany
him alone.

It had been with a curious mixture of feelings he had heard this.
Things were very pitiful up at the little flat, and though his inmost
sympathy had gone out generously enough to both girls, with a
perversity born of narrow insight he had reserved the deepest of it for
Doris.

It seemed to him that she was so young to face such circumstances, and
at such an early age to become saddened by the vicissitudes of life.
In the depths of her wide blue eyes he saw unshed tears, and the little
droop of her pretty mouth went straight to his heart.  He wanted to
gather her up in his arms, and kiss her and pet her till she was again
all sunshine and smiles.

Ha was not unaware that Ethel probably suffered more, but her way of
showing it, or perhaps hiding it, appealed to him less.  Instead of
that mute distress of unshed tears, her quiet eyes wore an inscrutable
veil.  It was as if the anguish behind the veil were something too
terrible and too sacred to be looked upon by a workaday world; but
Dudley only knew that a wall of reserve was between him and her trouble.

And her firm, strong mouth had no engaging droop at the corners.  It
was only if anything a little firmer, almost to sternness.

Dudley believed that Basil was dying at last, after his weary
martyrdom, and he believed that Ethel knew it; and in some vague way it
hurt him that she gave no sign, and refused to be drawn into any speech
concerning his increased weakness.

Doris, on the other hand, spoke of it in a faltering, tearful voice,
adding a little pitifully that it made it harder for her that Ethel was
so distant and unsympathetic.

In a sense the circumstances nonplussed Dudley altogether.  Some inner
voice told him that such a depth of wondrous, unselfish devotion as
Ethel showed to her invalid brother could not live in the same heart
with hardness and want of sympathy; and yet there was the evidence of
the swimming, melting eyes and drooping lips of the younger sister left
out in the cold.

Perhaps it was unfortunate that on that very evening of Dudley's visit
Ethel had come home rather earlier than her wont, to find Doris not yet
returned from her daily outing, and, in consequence, the fire out and
the sick man shivering with cold.  He had looked so dreadfully ill that
she had hastened first to get som brandy to revive him, only to find
Doris had forgotten her promise to get the empty bottle replaced that
morning.

In desperation she had hastened to the other little flat on the same
floor, hoping its inmate might chance to have a little to lend.

The tenant was a lonely, harsh-featured spinster, who eked out a
precarious living by teaching music.  Ethel knew her slightly, as a
gaunt woman who usually toiled up the stairs with a sort of scornful
weariness of herself and everything else.

She knew that because she was not fashionable, nor striking, nor
well-dressed, she taught mostly in rather second-rate schools, and
often had to take long journeys to her pupils, coming home tired and
worn at night to an empty, comfortless little dwelling, to light her
own fire and cook her own evening meal.

She knew, too, that she was a gentlewoman, the daughter of a poor
clergyman, left penniless, to fight a hard world alone.  Had her own
home been happier, she would gladly have asked her to join them
sometimes; but the weight of Basil's illness, and her own usual
condition of weariness, had left the invitation always unspoken.

"A little brandy," the music-teacher echoed, with a quick note of
concern; "yes, I believe I have a drop.  Is it your brother?  Let me
come and see if I can help?"

"Thank you," Ethel had replied, trying not to allow her voice to show
how much she would have preferred not to accept the proffered help.  "I
think I can manage quite well."

But the gaunt spinster followed her across the little landing
obstinately.  She had seen Doris out half an hour before, and knew that
she had not yet returned.

"Ah, you have no fire," she said, in her somewhat grating voice; "if
you will let me I will light it," and without more ado she had procured
coals and wood for herself, and was down on her knees before the empty
grate.

Ethel turned away with a sick, helpless feeling over Doris'
selfishness, and after administering a few drops of brandy, chafed the
sick man's hands and feet.  When Basil felt better he glanced up
curiously at the strange, dried-up-looking female who had just
succeeded in persuading a cheerful blaze to brighten the room.  She
looked back into his face frankly.

"You needn't mind me," she informed him; "I'm only the music-teacher
from the opposite flat."

"You seem to be rather a kind sort of music-teacher," he said, with his
winsome smile, "even if you do only come from the opposite flat."

The hard face relaxed a very little, and she shrugged her shoulders.

"Oh, well, it isn't easy to be kind," she answered, "when you don't
stand for much else in the universe but a letter of the alphabet."  She
turned back to her grate and commenced sweeping up the ashes.

Basil roused himself a little further and looked interested.

"What letter do you stand for?"

"Just G."  She gave a low, harsh laugh.  "G is the letter that
distinguishes my flat from the others, and it is all I stand for to God
or man."

"I see."  His white, pain wrung face looked extraordinarily kind.
"Well, G, I'm very deeply grateful to you for coming across to light my
fire; and I'm glad there happened to be a G in the universe this
afternoon."

She turned her head away sharply, that neither of them might see the
sudden, swift mist that dimmed her eyes, but she only answered:

"All the same, if there had been no G, and no you, the universe would
have had an atom less pain in it, and no one have been any the worse."

"That's where you're wrong," he told her, "because Ethel couldn't have
done without me, and if you put your head in at my door occasionally,
and just remark to F that G is across the passage, F will be glad the
universe didn't decide to leave G out of the alphabet."

The woman looked at him a moment with a curious expression in her eyes.
 Then she said:

"Well, if _you_ can take the insult of a maimed, or joyless, or cursed
life like that, it oughtn't to be so very hard for me to be glad I
happened to be able to come over and light your fire."

"Nor so very hard to come again."

"Ah!..." she hesitated, then said to him, looking half-defiantly
towards Ethel: "Time after time, when I thought you were alone, I've
wanted to just look in and see if you were all right.  But I didn't
like to.  People don't take to me as a rule, and I'm... I'm... well,
I'm not an ingratiating sort of person, and I guessed, probably, you'd
all rather do without any help I had to give."

"It was kind of you to think of us at all," Ethel said, not quite sure
whether Basil would like her to come in or not.

"You guessed wrong," was his answer.  "_I_ think it would be very nice
of you to look in occasionally.  It certainly seems rather absurd for
you to be all alone there, and I all alone here, when we both want a
little company.  I'm sure the alphabet was not meant to be so
unsociable."

"It just depends."

She got up from her keneeling posture on the hearth, and stood, a
grotesque apparition enough, looking at him with her greenish,
nondescript eyes.  Her hay-coloured hair was tightly drawn back from a
high, bulging forehead, her eyebrows were so light they scarcely showed
at all, while her nose, which started in a nice straight line, had
failed her at the last moment by suddenly taking an upward turn in an
utterly incongruous fashion.  She had high cheek-bones, a parchment
skin, and a mouth that was not much more than a slit; the grotesque
effect of the whole being heightened by a long, thin neck, which she
made no effort to cover with a neat high collar, but accentuated by a
half-and-half untidily loose one.

She wore a cheap, ready-made blouse, with absurd little bows tacked on
down the front, which Ethel longed to abolish with one sweep, and her
skirt, which had shrunk considerably in front, sagged in a dejected
fashion behind.

Yet to Basil's kindly eyes, there was something behind it all that was
attractive.  Fore one thing, she was so eminently sincere.  One felt
she had no delusions whatever, concerning her appearance or her
oddities; and though she looked out upon life with that scornful,
resentful air, she had yet a keener sense of humour and a clearer brain
than most women.  Under different circumstances she might have been a
success.

As it was, she appeared to have got into a wrong groove altogether,
and, unable to extricate herself, to have merely become an oddity.
Basil, from his couch, looked up at her with friendly eyes, and she
finished:

"One may want a little company, without wanting just any company."

"You think you will find me even duller than nothing?" and his eyes
twinkled.

"You know I didn't mean that.  You are clever, and well-read, and
probably fastidious.  I'm... well, you see what I am! and no good for
anything except trying to restrain horrible children from thumping till
they break the notes."

"I thought you said you were a music-teacher?"

"That's what they call it," with a dry grimace; "but when I dare to be
honest, I have too much respect for music."

"Well, you won't have to weary your soul restraining me from thumping
anything, so it will be a change to come and talk to me.  We'll turn
the tables, and I'll try and restrain you from thumping the universe
too hard."

"It would be much more to the point if we thumped together: I, because
I'm not wanted, and it's an insult to foist me on to mankind whether I
like it or not; and you, because... well, because you are a strong man
cursed with helplessness."

"Very well, if you come in that particular mood, we'll just play
football with the bally old universe, so to speak.  The main point to
me is, that we take a rise out of the powers that be, by being a source
of entertainment occasionally to each other.  As our alphabetical
significance in the general scheme is next door to each other, we may
as well get what we can out of the circumstance."

She turned aside, looking half humorous and half satirical.

"It sounds well enough as you say it, but I expect the powers are
sneering diabolically at us both.  However, if you'll let me try to be
some sort of company, I'll come across again soon -"

A latch-key was heard in the door, and a moment later Doris entered.
When she saw the two women she looked taken aback, and stammered
something about not knowing the time.

"When I got in Basil's fire was out, and he was perished with cold,"
Ethel said coldly; "and as I had to go to Miss... Miss -"

"Call it G," put in the music-teacher, with a comical twist of her
mouth.

" - for brandy, she came over and lit the fire for me."

"I couldn't help not knowing the time," Doris murmured in a low,
grumbling voice, and went away to take her hat off.

The music-teacher glanced from one to the other, as if about to say
something, but changed her mind and moved towards the door.  On the
treshold she looked back, and said in her short, dry way:

"If F wants anything of G, G will be ready to come instantly."

"Thank you," Basil and Ethel replied together, the former adding, "And
don't forget to put your head in at the door occasionally, by way of a
reminder."

Ethel said no more to Doris, because she felt it useless, but her
silence as they prepared the evening meal together signified her
disapproval.  She was deeply worried about Basil's failing strength,
and longed to speak of it to someone who could understand; but felt
such selfish forgetfulness as Doris showed shut her out from any
sympathetic discussion.

Then Dudley came, and while Doris looked woebegone and sad, Ethel's
face was a little stern with stress and anxiety.  Basil tried valiantly
to be cheerful enough for all three, but the effort cost him almost
more strength than he could muster.

After Dudley had gone, carrying with him the image of Doris's plaintive
prettiness and pathetic solitariness, and thinking gladly of the
pleasure it would be to take her to Marlow on Sunday, Ethel slipped on
her knees beside Basil's couch, overcome for a moment by the burden of
his suffering, and the difficulties of their lives.

Often after Dudley had been, and some little act or glance or word had
seemed to emphasise the barrier between them, her yearning over Basil
had broken down her courage.  When she had lost them both, what would
become of her then? was the question that utterley undid her, finding
no reply beyond a sense of empty darkness.

She told herself she would go right away to another land - to some far
colony - where she could begin life afresh, with her haunting memories
kept in the background.  She would not stay to see the awakening come
to Dudley, if Doris were his wife, nor struggle through the long months
at the General Post Office, when the end of each day's labour brought
no welcoming smile from Basil.

She would not settle down alone in a dingy little flat as their
opposite neighbour, to become a mere letter of the alphabet to God and
man, surrounded by countless other cyphers of as little meaning and
account.  She would go away to some new, young land, with her vigour
and her courage, and carve out a path with some semblance of reality
and value.

Only, could she ever get away from the awful emptiness that would come
to her with the loss of Basil, and the utter lack of any incentive to
carry on the unequal struggle?

Basil laid his hand on her bowed head, and for a little while seemed
unable to speak.  Then he steadied his voice, and rallied her with his
brave, whimsical thoughts.

"Wouldn't the dear old pater have enjoyed G?  She's just the kind of
oddity he doted on.  Fancy her teaching music of all things.  It must
be only scales and exercises.  I think she's splendid to see the
incongruity herself, and refuse to call it music when she dare be
honest.  What a grotesque figurehead she looks, chum, doesn't she?  I
thoroughly enjoyed talking to her."

But Ethel could not answer to his cheeriness just yet.

"Basil, why are so many humans just mere letters of the alphabet in the
general scheme?"

She had slid into a sitting posture now, and leaned her head against
his arm.

"It doesn't matter so much about the men; they can go out into the
world and make friends by the way, and become something more if they
wish; but what of the single women, who have to work for their living,
and have nothing much to look forward to but a sort of terror as to
what will become of them when they can work no more?  If you could see
some of them at the office, with that drawn, dried-up, joyless look,
scraping and saving and starving for dread of the years ahead: it's so
unfair, so grossly, hideously, cruelly unfair."

"It perhaps won't be when you see all round it, chum.  It is so obvious
we only see one side of things here.  When we see the other side it
will all look so different."

"Perhaps, but in the meantime they are here, now, in our very midst,
all _these unwanted_ women.  If you saw as much of them as I do, I
think you would feel even the letter had better not have been supplied.
 A blank would have meant so much less suffering.  A penniless woman
without attractiveness, and with neither husband, child, nor father
wanting her, is such an anomaly.  She just drags on, hating her
loneliness, dreading and fearing the future or illness, merely existing
because she is called upon to do so for no apparent reason."

"But she can always make friends, chum.  If she is kind and cheerful
and hopeful she will soon win love of some sort."

"If... yes...  but, Basil, to be all that, when one is weighed down
with the inequality of chance and a horror of the future calls for a
heroine; and Life didn't bother to make many of them heroines.  She
doesn't seem to have paid much attention to them at all.  Orphans and
widows and sick people she remembers; but the lonely, ageing, hardened,
unwanted spinster!  It sometimes seems to me it is just sentimentality
to be persuaded everything is all right.

"I don't believe it is all right.  There's too much useless, silent
aching, and useless, passionate resentment over circumstances that it
seems should either never have been, or should be remedied if any
Guiding Hand has power.    I have determination and I'm strong, Basil;
the future doesn't frighten me badly yet, but when you are gone, I feel
as if the loneliness might half kill me, and as if then I ought to have
the right to become a blank if I wish, since I was never consulted
about becoming a letter in the great alphabet."

He did not seek to stay her, knowing with his deep insight that to get
such thoughts spoken was better than to brood inwardly; and because of
his unshakable faith in her courage, he was not alarmed by them.

Yet he could not offer any comfort.  Had not the enigma of useless pain
racked and torn his soul piteously through the long years of his
illness, leaving him indeed with a wonderful courage, but not with a
theory that would fit the needs of suffering mankind?  He could bear
his own ills, because he had trained and taught himself to take them as
a soldier takes the miseries of a hard campaign; but the general sum of
suffering was another matter; and he shrank from saying either that
suffering was sent by God to do good, or that it was necessary to the
human race.

All he knew was simply that ills bravely borne seemed aided by some
mysterious power outside their bearers; whereas the craven and the
grumbler seemed but to add to their own burden.  For the rest, though
he would not say it for the pain it gave her, the knowledge of his
growing weakness was already a solace to him, and he watched with
hidden eagerness for the day that should set him free.  At least a
corpse was no drain upon the slender purse of a beloved sister; and the
gnawing ache of his helplessness and uselessness would be stilled for
ever.

If only Dudley had cared for her?  From his vantage-ground of the
looker-on, with his unnaturally sharpened sensitiveness, he knew
perfectly how matters stood and how hopeless the desire seemed.

Dear old Dudlye, his life-long friend, would probably marry Doris and
learn his mistake too late; and Ethel, with her fine nature, would go
to some one else.

Well, one could not change either one's own little circle of fate, or
the universe, just to suit oneself; one could only hope for the best,
while there was still room for hope, and cultivate that soldier-spirit,
undaunted even in a losing fight.

In the meantime there was the lonely, unwanted spinster opposite, with
her immediate claim of nearness and loneness; and, as if to direct her
thoughts into another channel, he said:

"You know, chum, I believe G was quite serious about wanting to come in
here sometimes.  Why not find out which afternoons she comes home
early, and let her come and get tea and have it with me here.  Then
Doris need not worry about getting back in time."

"But if you are feeling weak it will tire you so, Basil, to have a
stranger.  You will feel obliged to talk to her."

"No, I don't think I shall; and it would be nice to feel she was rather
glad not to be a blank after all.  Let her come one afternoon and try.
Perhaps one way of grappling with the problem of human suffering - the
best way - is to try and alleviate the atom of pain that is nearest
each one of us."

She assented to please him, and then kissed his forehead with a
lingering, adoring tenderness, marvelling that such a sufferer could so
think for others.  Then she went quietly to bed, feeling, as the gaunt
spinster had tried to put it, "If _you_ can bear your ills so, surely I
might manage to bear mine more courageously."





CHAPTER XIX


The next evening Ethel crossed the little landing to the lonely flat,
and gave the invitation from F to G.

A good deal to her amusement, she found the gaunt spinster knitting
babies' socks, with a basket containing several completed pairs beside
her.  She picked a pair up, and said with a kind little smile:

"I hardly expected to find you doing this."

"Of course not," in a short way, that sounded uncivil without being so.
 "It's an occupation about as much suited to me as teaching music."

"I wonder why you do it?"

"I do it for bread, naturally.  They bring in a few shillings.  It is
just a fluke that I can make them at all.  I know as much about a
needle ordinarily as a flying-machine; but I learnt to knit once under
protest.
I sprained my ankle and was laid up for some weeks, and I told the
doctor I should go stark, staring mad if he kept me shut up in a house
doing nothing.  He said knitting was a very good preventive to madness,
and he'd send his wife along.  She was a great missionary worker, and
she pounced on me like a hawk, and started me off knitting socks for
little gutta-percha babies somewhere in the Antipodes, almost before I
knew where I was.
Such insanity!... as if white babies wanted to be bothered with socks,
much less black ones!  I told the doctor it was adding insult to injury
to allow it to appear I hadn't more common sense than to occupy my time
with garments for the heathen.  As if there weren't too many garments
in the world already, half the community over-dressed, and ready to
sell its soul for more.
'Leave them clean and healthy and naked, that's my advice, doctor,' I
told him; 'and if you weren't afraid of you wife you'd agree.'"

Ethel leaned against the table, enjoying the rugged face and comically
twisted mouth.

"But I thought you were a clergyman's daughter?" she said.

"So I am; but I don't see why I shouldn't be credited with a little
common sense even then.  I know they haven't much as a rule; what with
their sewing-classes, and praying-classes, and mothers' meetings
smothering up their minds till they can't see beyond their noses.  I
never had much to do with that part of it.  They didn't like me well
enough in the village to want to pray with me nor sew with me; which
was just as well, for if I'd prayed, I should have implored the
Almighthy to open their minds a little, and widen their views, and give
them each a good thick slab of devilry to counteract their general
soppiness and short-sighted stupidity.
Ugh!...  to hear some of those soppy folks praying to be delivered from
the Evil One, and to have strength given them to cast the devil from
their hearts!  Just as if the devil had time to bother with that
sanctimonious, chicken-hearted crew.  He wasn't very likely to do them
the compliment of acknowledging their existence."

"Did no one do any parish work then?"

"Oh, yes, the doctor's wife did most of it.  And when a new doctor came
they daren't for the life of them have a word to say to him, for fear
of the next prayer-meeting, when she would preside.  You see, she'd
pray for the lost sheep in the fold for about half an hour, and how he
went to the wolf for healing, which was the new doctor - instead of the
saviour, which was her husband, the old one, and drew lurid pictures of
the fiery poisons and deadly draughts the wolf gave the poor sheep to
kill him instead of cure him."

"And what became of the new doctor?"

"Oh, of course he had to go - which was a pity, as he was the first
person with a sense of humour who ever entered that village as a
resident.  One could positively talk sense to him, without being
regarded as a lunatic.  As a rule, you had to feign imbecility there if
you didn't want to be considered mad.
I had just made up my mind to learn to knit men's ties, instead of
babies' socks, when he departed" - and she looked at Ethel with a
grimness, and at the same time a lurking humour, that made it quite
impossible for Ethel to keep her face.

"And did you change your mind then?" seeing the gaunt spinster was not
in the least annoyed at her for laughing.

"Yes; I stuck to the babies' socks.  I thought on the whole it was less
incongruous for a woman with a face like mine to work for a baby than a
man.
And that's the nearest I ever got to a love affair.  Just to wonder if
I'd knit a man a tie, and change my mind, and knit socks for a little
black heathen whelp instead."

"O dear!" said Ethel, with a little smothered gasp, "you don't mind if
I laugh, do you?  You really are very amusing."

"Amusing!..." with a little humorous snort.  "Well, I don't mind
amusing you; but I do think it's about the most monstrous thing in the
way of a practical joke I know, for Nature to create a creature like
me, with a natural inclination to want a mate.  Just as if any man
could bear to get up every morning of his life and see me there."

"Nonsense," Ethel exclaimed.  "Basil thinks you are very attractive."

"Does he?" drily.  Then, with a sudden, swift humour, "Perhaps it's a
pity I didn't learn to knit ties after all!"

"Tell him about why you didn't instead - and abouth the village and the
doctor's wife.  He'll be so interested.  You will be a positive godsend
to him.  May I tell him to expect you to tea to-morrow?"

"Yes.  Tell him, to add to the humour of the situation, I'll bring
across a baby's sock to knit.  We're both so likely to have a mutual
interest in babies."

Ethel kept Basil entertained most of the evening with the account of
her interview, rather to the annoyance of Doris, who, for some vague
reason, was not at all pleased about the new acquaintance.

Perhaps it was because, on one or two occasions when she had remained
out later than she should, she had met the music-teacher and
encountered a fierce and disapproving glare.  Doris was quite willing
to be relieved of her charge occasionally, but she did not at all
appreciate the idea of a strong-minded individual, who would certainly
not hesitate not only to condemn her selfishness, but to look her scorn
of it.

On the evening of Dudley's visit, when she first found the gaunt
spinster at the flat, she had gone to bed feeling out of sorts with
herself and all the world.

She hated having been caught in her selfish forgetfulness; she hated
the idea of the opposite tenant coming in to help Ethel; she hated
being Doris Hayward and living in a stuffy Holloway flat.  It caused
her to turn her thoughts more seriously to a way of escape, and, as a
natural sequence, to how much Dudley's attentions might mean.

And further, if they were meant in earnest, how she would feel about
marrying him.  She made no pretence to herself of loving him;
personally, she thought love mostly sentimental nonsense; but she liked
being with him, and she liked going about with him.

On the other hand, he was not rich, and she hated poverty.  If she
waited a little longer, a richer man might turn up?...  or, again, he
might not, and Dudley might change his mind.  Certainly it was very
awkward to know which was the wisest course, but in the meantime it
would be just as well to keep Dudley attracted.

To this end she gave her hair an extra curl on Saturday evening, and
arose betimes on Sunday morning for further preparations.  Ethel took a
bow off her hat, ironed, and remade it, and finally put the finishing
touches to her appearance.

"You look very nice," she said.  "I hope you'll have a splendid day.
Rund and show yourself to Basil."

Basil told her she would certainly be the belle of the luncheon party,
and finally she departed feeling very pleased with herself.

Dudley was waiting for her at Paddington, and his eyes showed plainly
that he echoed Basil's opinion, though he did not actually express it
in words.

"How did you leave Basil?" he asked.  "I wish I felt happier about him."

"He is much brighter altogether.  I really think Ethel might have come,
as the tenant of the opposite flat would have been only too pleased to
go and sit with him.  She never seems to have any pleasure, does she?
But it is really her own fault.  I would have stayed at home to-day if
she would have let me."

"I think I'm rather glad she wouldn't; though I am sorry she could not
have had the treat as well.  We are going to have a lovely day, in
spite of its being so late in the year."

As it was only a small birthday luncheon, and the others of the party
had either gone overnight or lived near, they were easily able to get a
compartment to themselves, and Dudley was conscious of a pleasurable
quickening of his pulses at the prospect of the long tte--tte.

And indeed it was not surprising, for Doris looked adorably pretty and
winsome, and many a wiser man might have shared his pleased
anticipation.  Moreover, Doris was not in the least stupid or vapid,
however selfish and shallow her nature; and if she chose she could be a
very pleasant companion.

And to-day she did so choose, hovering still in indecision over the
subject that had filled her thoughts often of late.

Finally, it chanced that during much of the day they were thrown
together, and all the  time she thought how nice it was to be of so
much consequence to any one; while he enjoyed again the sense of her
clinging, engaging dependence.

And when they were once more alone in a commpartment, steaming back to
town, it was not in the least surprising that, almost before he knew
it, Dudley was pouring into her ears a tale of love.

True, it was a very calm and collected tale, but it was none the less
genuine for that; and from the bottom of his heart he believed that
she, above all women, was the one he desired as his wife.  Transports
of any description were foreign to his nature.  He imagined they always
would be.

Joyous excitement and enthusiasm he left to Hal, except such enthusiasm
as he kept for old ruins and ancient architecture.  Still, it warmed
all his blood and quickened all his pulses to have his way at last, and
hold Doris in his arms, and try to kiss away the unshed tears and the
little droop from her lips.

He took her home from the station, but did not go in because of the
lateness of the hour, and the probability that Basil was just getting
off to sleep; only kissing her again with a certain old-fashioned,
deferential air and promising to come in the course of a day or two to
see Ethel and Basil.

Doris let herself in with somewhat mixed feelings.

She had had a delightful day and thoroughly enjoyed it, but, now that
the die was cast, and the difficult point settled, she found herself
beginning to be more critical of Dudley.

She wished he were not quite so old-fashioned, nor so good.  She was a
little afraid she would find his sterling qualities distinctly boring,
and his high standard a difficult and tiresome one to bother with.

And then, of course, there was Hal.  Hal never had liked her and
probably never would.  Not that it mattered very much.  In fact, it was
rather pleasant than otherwise to think of Hal's discomfiture and
dismay, Doris wondered if she would expect to live with them, and made
up her mind then and there, very decisively, that she would never agree
to anything of the kind.

She had suffered quite enough from Ethel's superiority, without
encountering a second edition in Hal.  As she thought of it, and of how
she would checkmate Hal's possible plans to make her home with them,
she smiled to herself a little cruelly in the darkness.





CHAPTER XX


It was Hal also who filled Dudley's thoughts as he made his way
homeward.  In her attitude to his engagement he was afraid she was
going to personate what is known as a 'though nut to crack."  He
wondered if she would be waiting up for him, and what in the world she
would say when he told her.

As it happened, she was waiting, sitting over the remains of a little
fire she had lighted for company.  The reason she felt the need of
company, and the reason she was waiting, was the fact of a perturbed
frame of mind she was endeavouring to soothe, until he came in to give
the final touch.

She was perturbed because of the change in Sir Edwin Crathie, and the
closing scene of a somewhat eventful day.  Until tea-time he had been
as gay and lighthearted and inconsequent as ever.

Their lunch in the New Forest had been an immense success, and both had
enjoyed it thoroughly.  On their way home they further enjoyed a big
tea at an hotel.

Moreover, the drive had been delightful.  The glory of the autumn
tints; the delicious stillness of the autumn weather, and the sunny
coolness of the atmosphere had all contributed to make the day perfect.
 After her long hours of office work and monotony, Hal was only the
better tuned to enjoy it, and as she leant back in blissful ease in the
luxurious motor, she thought what a goose she would have been to let
prudish thoughts influence her to forgo it.

Then, once more, after tea, he had deliberately moved his chair nearer
to hers, and struck a personal note that she found it difficult to
combat.

"Do you know," he told her blandly, "you're the dearest litte woman
I've met for a long time?  I don't know when I've enjoyed a whole day
with any one so much as this."

"It's just the novelty," she said, adopting a note of unconcern to head
him off; "most of your friends flatter and try to please you.  It
amuses me more to contradict you; that's all."

"Oh, that's all, is it!  Well, I dare say if I found a special joy in
being contradicted, I could easily humour the fancy without going for a
whole day into the country."

"Ver likely - only, since you wanted your day in the country, you kill
two birds with one stone, don't you see?"

"And supposing I badly wanted something else from you besides
contradiction!... a little affection, for instance!"

"Oh, I'm giving you a lot of that thrown in," gaily, but she pushed her
chair a little farther away; "if I didn't rather like you I shouldn't
bother to contradict you."

"Rather like me!... that's very cold - I, a great deal more than
_rather_ like you."

"That, of course, is different," with a jaunty air, that made them both
laugh.

"Still, I don't think we can stop a 'rather liking', now - do you?"

"I don't see why we shouldn't; we are getting on very nicely."

He got up suddenly, and walked away to the window.  In his heart of
hearts he was a little nonplussed.  Of course they couldn't stop where
they were, he argued; but how, with a girl of Hal's practical
level-headedness get any farther?

Then he remembered he was a firm believer in swift and sudden measures,
and usually found they fitted all contingencies.  So he swung round,
crossed the room, put his hand on her shoulders, and boldly kissed her.

"There," he said - "that is how I 'rather like' you."

Hal was quite taken aback - almost too taken aback to speak; but a red
spot burned in each cheek, and a sudden flash seemed to gleam angrily
in her eyes.  Her quick brain, however, took in the position instantly.
 If she grew indignant and melodramatic, he would merely laugh at her.

Of course he knew she must be perfectly aware that men often kissed a
girl who stood to them  in her position, without thinking much of it.
To make a fuss would be rather absurd.  On the other hand, of course,
he had to be disillusioned concerning what he apparently supposed would
be her feelings on the subject.

"I call that bad taste," she said coolly.  "You might have given me a
sporting chance to let you know beforehand I should object."  He looked
about to repeat the action, but she edged away from him.  "Of course I
know lots of girls don't mind, but that's nothing to do with you and
me.  I do."

"Why do you mind?"  He felt rather small before the directness of her
eyes, and tried to bluster himself on to his former level.  "It's very
silly of you, especially nowadays.  There's no harm in a kiss, is
there?"

"None that I know of, but I think we were getting on very nicely
without it.  We won't risk spoiling things.  Come along, I'm longing to
be off"; and she moved towards the door.

"Are you angry with me?" he asked.

"Yes; very; but if you'll promise not to do it again I'll try to
forget.  If you transgress further, we shall just have to leave off
being friends - that's all."

He took his seat in the motor beside her in silence, and Peter whizzed
them away at a good speed.

Hal, enjoying the motion, kept her face averted, and drank in the
lovely, fresh country air.

Presently a hand stole firmly over hers.

"You're not to be angry with me any more, little woman.  I'm afraid I
was rather a cad, but you've got such a fascinating mouth.  I'm sorry."

She looked frankly into his eyes.

"Well, don't do it again, then."

He tried to look no less frankly back, but it was as if some forbidden
thought flashed across his mind.

"I'll try not," he said, a trifle lamely, and looked away.

He still kept possession of her hand, however, until she resolutely
drew it from him.

"Will Brother Dudley be in?" he asked, when they drew up in Bloomsbury.

"No; he won't get bakc much before nine."

He took her latch-key from her, and opened the door, entering himself,
instead of taking her proffered hand.

"Which way?" he asked, and she opened the door into their sitting-room.

"I'll show you Brother Dudley's photograph now you're here," she said
in a frank voice - "and the very latest of Lorraine Vivian.  I wish I
had one of Apollo; but I've never asked for one, because I always make
a point of pretending not to admire him."

"It's only pretence, then?" he asked, glancing at the others as if his
thoughts were elsewhere.

"It can only be.  One is bound to admire him at heart.  Nature seldom
made a fairer gentleman, and it would be mere perversity to deny it,
except, as I do, for his good."

Then suddenly she saw he was scarcely listening to her, and looking at
the photographs without seeing them, and instinctively she moved away,
feeling a little at loss.  The next moment he had caught her shoulders,
and kissed her again.

"I said I'd try, and so I have, but it's no use.  Little woman, don't
be prudish; kiss me back again."

But she pushed him away, and in the firelight he saw she was very white
and determined.

"I asked you not to.  It is much worse taste still now."

"No, it isn't - don't be silly.  Why shouldn't I kiss you? I... I...
have got awfully fond of you, and I know you like me somewhere down in
your heart."

"I shall cease to do so from this moment."

"I dare you to.  Hal, if you like me, why not take the sweets that
offer?  I'll be bound you've never been kissed in your life as I will
kiss you.  Don't be prudish.  Let me teach you."

She seemed to hesitate a second, in indecision as to what was her best
course to withstand him, and, seizing the opportunity, he suddenly
caught her in his arms and kissed her on the lips with swift, eager
kisses.  Then, not giving her time to speak her resentment, he snatched
up his hat and moved to the door.

"Don't be angry," he said.  "I did try, honour bright, but it's no use;
good-bye.  I must see you again soon";  and he went out, closing the
door behind him.

For some minutes Hal stood quite still, feeling a little dazed.  She
saw him cross the pavement, give some directions to Peter, and then
drive away without a backward glance.  She stood still a little longer,
then slowly took off her hat, threw it on the sofa, ran her fingers
through her hair and sat down.

After a little, the emptiness of the room seemed to oppress her, for
though it was not cold, she jumped up and put a match to the fire.
Then the landlady came in with her supper.

"'Ad a nice day, miss?" she asked pleasantly.

"Very nice.  How's Johnnie?  Did you get to see him?"  alluding to a
small son boarded out at Highgate for his health.

"Yes; I went up to tea with 'im.  'E looks years better already."

"I'm very glad."

Hal sat down to her supper with a preoccupied air, and instead of
having a little chat, she relapsed into silence, and the landlady
departed.  She felt vaguely that something had upset entirely the even
tenor of her mind, and she wanted to think.  Any other Sunday evening
she would have told the landlady something about her motor-ride, for
she and Dudley had now been in the same rooms for seven years, and it
is quite a fallacy to condemn all London landladies as grasping,
bad-tempered tyrants.

Hal was quite fond of Mrs. Carr, and had found her unwearingly
thoughtful and attentive.  But to-night she wanted to think, and was
glad to be alone again, almost immediately returning to her arm chair
over the fire.

She was conscious, in a vague, uncertain way, that though Sir Edwin had
kissed her because he cared for her, he could not have acted so had he
cared in an upright, honest-hearted manner.  She attracted him, and he
wanted all the pleasure he could get out of the attraction, but there,
no doubt, it ended.

For the rest, he was Sir Edwin Crathie, Cabinet Minister, and member of
a proud, patrician family.  She was Hal Pritchard, secretary, typist,
and occasional journalist at the office of a leading London paper.

She grew restless, and commenced roaming round the room.  Her knowledge
of life, as it is lived near its teeming, throbbing, working centre,
warned her that the new turn of their friendship held danger.  If she
was wise, she would shun the danger, and go back to her old life before
he had come into it.  She would firmly and resolutely refuse to see him
again.

To do so without regret was impossible.  Now that the friendship seemed
about to cease, she realised it had meant more than she knew.  She held
her face in her hands, and her cheeks tingled at the memory of the last
eager kiss.

She was woman enough to know it was good to be kissed like that by a
man who, even if his morals and principles left much to be desired, was
still very much a man, and had won a distinction that made most women
proud of far less attention than he had shown her.

Still? -

In a different sense she was struggling in a net of circumstances
something like Lorraine's.  Lorraine wanted to do the right thing, or,
at any rate, the sporting thing.

So did Hal.

In a world full of temptations, and backsliding, and much suffering
thereby, the sporting thing for the strong woman is to stand to her
guns.  If Hal dallied with Sir Edwin now, she felt she would be
deserting her post.  At the judgment-bar of her own heart, which, after
all, matters far more than the judgment-bar of public opinion, she
would be allowing herself to compromise for the sake of the fleeting,
dangerous pleasure.

She stopped short by the window, and stared out into the gloomy,
lamplit street.  And it crossed her mind to remember the bitter price
so many women had paid for that dalliance and compromise, so many now
probably gazing out with dull eyes into gloomy streets, hopeless,
reckless, and joyless.

Yes; dalliance and compromis were mistakes.  The real pluck was the
sporting spirit that stood to its guns, even if it cost a big and
wearisome effort.  She would not dally.  She would answer to her own
Best, and try to go on her steadfast way.

After all, she had Dudley and Lorraine.  It was good to have a brother
all to oneself, who was incontestably a dear, in spite of a little
priggishness and narrowness.  He would be home soon, and then they
would have a last chat over the fire together; and that would help to
renew her in her determination to cut the dangerous friendship adrift.

She leaned back in the chair a little wearily, and waited for the
welcome sound of his key in the latch.  She wished he would come
quickly, because she did not quite like the way her mind kept reverting
to those eager kisses.  The memory had the danger of making most other
thoughts seem thin and dull; and she wondered how she was going to
replace a friendship that had been so full of interest and enjoyment.

If she had dared, she would like to have persuaded herself that he
cared for her in the real way; and her cheeks glowed, and her heart
thumped a little at the thought of all the real way meant.  But her
practical side told her only too decidedly that this was not the case.

Perhaps he was not the sort of man who could care in the real way at
all.  He was too selfish, and grasping, and ambitious by nature.  That
he was interesting and a delightful companion as well did not help
matters.  Men were very often all these things together, but the
selfish, ambitious, unscrupulous side usually outweighed all the rest
in big questions that affected their whole lives.

Then she remembered that many of the girls she knew - quite nice, jolly
girls - would have taken the fun that offered, and not bothered about
anything beyond the present.  Still, that did not affect her own
particular case.

One had to try and live up to one's own ideals, not other people's, and
in her inmost heart she knew that she thought but poorly of the girls
who run foolish risks for the sake of a little extra pleasure and
gratification, just as she thought poorly of the man who amused
himself,  trifling with a girl's affections, to pass a little time.

Then came the welcome sound of Dudley's key, and she sat up and turned
an eager face to the door to greet him.

He came in quietly, and returned the greeting with his usual calm,
undemonstrative appreciation; only, he did not look at her, nor ask her
any questions about her day.

The supper was still waiting for him, and he took a few mouthfuls, in a
preoccupied manner, with his face turned away.  Hal asked him about the
day's outing, wondering not a little at his manner.  He seemed anxious,
and somewhat ill at ease, and she observed that he did not eat anything
to speak of.

At last he got up and came to her side near the fire.

"Aren't you going to sit down?" she asked.  "I thought a little fire
looked so cosy."

He did not seem to hear her, for instead of replying he coughed
nervously, cleared his throat, and said:

"I've something to tell you, Hal - a piece of news."

She waited, watching him with a puzzled, curious air.  Then, without
any further preamble, he finished abruptly:

"I'm - I'm - engaged to be married."

Hal gave a gasp, and became suddenly taut with amazement and
incredulity.  "You're - engaged - to - be - married!"

"Yes; you're not very surprised, are you?"

A sudden, awful fear seemed to envelop and clutch at her.

""Who to?" she asked, a little hoarsely?

"To Doris Hayward."

For some reason he seemed unabel to look at her.  Vaguely he knew he
had dealt her a blow, and that it was of a nature he could not soften.

Hal stared hard at the fire, then suddenly started to her feet.

"You can't mean it," she exclaimed, forgetting to be circumspect.  "You
couldn't possibly think seriously of marrying Doris Hayward?"

Instantly he stiffened.

"I don't know why you speak of it in that way.  Certainly I am serious.
 It is hardly a question I should joke about."

There was a tense silence, then Hal turned to the sofa and picked up
her hat as if she were a little dazed.  She seemed suddenly to have
nothing to say, and she knew herself to be no good at prevarication.
To congratulate him seemed an impossibility just yet.

"Of course I know you have never cared for Doris," he said; "but
probably you did not know her well enough.  I hope you will soon see
you have misjudged her."

"I hope so," she said lamely.  "Good-night - I - I - hadn't thought
about your getting married.  I must get used to the idea.  I - " she
paused in sudden, swift distress.  "Good-night; of course I hope you'll
be happy, and all that," and she went hurriedly out, and up to her own
room.





CHAPTER XXI


When Hal reached her room she sat down on the bed in the dark, and
stared at the dim square of the window.  She was feeling stunned, and
as if her brain would not work properly.  It grasped the significance
of old, familiar objects as usual, but seemed quite unable to grip and
understand the something strange and new which had suddenly come into
being.  She remembered she had waited for Dudley to come with soothing
for a perturbed frame of mind, and instead, he had brought her - _this_.

What could it mean?  Surely, surely, not that Doris Hayward was to rob
her of her brother.

A wave of swift and sudden loneliness seemed to envelop her.  The
blackness of the night closed in upon her, and desolation swept across
her soul.

"If only it had been Ethel," was the vague, uncertain thought: "any one
in the world almost but Doris."

And again,

"Why had Dudley been so incredibly blind to Doris's real nature?  Why
had he of all men been caught by a pretty face?  Was it possible he
thought his life would need no other help and comfort but that of a
charming exterior in his wife?"

How childlike he seemed again to his young sister's practical, worldly
knowledge.  Of course he knew almost nothing of women, buried in his
musty old architectural lore, and giving most of his brain to the
contemplation of ancient ruins and edifices.

He had looked up from his books, and Doris had smiled at him, that
diabolically winsome, innocent smile of hers; and something in his
heart, not quite smothered and likewise not healthily developed, had
warmed into sudden, surprised pleasure, and straightway he thought
himself in love.  Hal was sure of one thingn, that if Doris had not
decided it would suit her plans to be Dudley's wife, the idea would not
have occured to him.

After all, what did he want with a wife for years to come, going along
so contentedly and placidly with his books and his thirst for
knowledge, and the peacefulness of their sojourn with Mrs. Carr?  No
servant troubles, no housekeeping worries, no taxes, no gas and
electric-light bills; everything done for them, and for company each
other.

Oh, of course, it was all Doris's doing.  She wanted to get away from
the dingy flat and the poverty, and she had hit upon Dudley as a way
out.

Hal got up suddenly with a bursting feeling.  Of course she did not
even love him, would not even try to change her nature to become more
in touch with his, would not trouble in the least what obstacles stood
between any real and deep understanding.  Perhaps she was not even
capable of love, but in any case her affections could not have been
given to any one as quiet, and studious, and old-fashioned as Dudley.

She went to the window and threw it open that she might lean out and
breathe the open air.  Her head burned and ached, and her eyes smarted
with a smouldering fire in her brain.  She felt more and more how
entirely it must have been Doris's doing.  Doris had smiled at him, and
confided in him, and managed first to convey a pathetic picture of her
own loneliness, and then to suggest how happy her life might be with
him.

And of course Dudley was all chivalry at heart, and trusting, and
tender-hearted; that was one reason why he had always deplored her,
Hal's, boyish independence and determination to fend for herself.  He
did not understand the vigorous, enterprising, working woman.

Immersed in his books and his studies, he had allowed himself to be
influenced largely by caricatures, and by the noisy stir of the
platform woman.  But he understood the Doris type, or thought he did,
and placed their engaging dependence before such spirited resolution as
her own and Ethel's.

And how to help him?  How, now, to thwart the carrying out of Doris'
cleverly carried scheme.

Her first thought was Ethel and Basil.  She would go to them, and
appeal to them to help her.

And then she remembered that "blood is thicker than water."  How could
they thwart their own sister; and in any case what would Dudley ever
see in it but a persecution that would intensify his affection?  One
hint that Doris was victimised, and she knew Dudley well enough to
realise he would only marry her the more quickly, whether he had
learned the truth or not.

Opposition of any sort would probably do far more harm than good at
present.  There was nothing for it but to meet the blow with the best
face possible, and hope time might yet bring release.

Then her thoughts went back to Sir Edwin, and quite suddenly and
unaccountably she longed to tell him about it.  He would be interested
for her sake, and he would cheer her up, and make her hopeful in spite
of herself.

And yet -

No; to see him again, feeling as she felt now, would only mean to see
him in a mood of weakness, that might make her less able to withstand
him.

She must rely only on Lorraine and Dick, and try to stand by her
previous determination.  She would see Lorraine directly she left the
office the next day, and in the meantime she would try and hide from
Dudley the extent of her dismay.

But in spite of her resolve, when she rested her head on the pillow,
the  hot tears squeezed through her closed eyelids, and in dumb misery
she told herself Dudley was lost to her for ever.

She awoke the next morning with a dull, aching sense of misery that had
robbed the sunshine of its warmth, and the day of its brightness; but
as she dressed she strengthened herself in a resolve to try and hide
her chagrin, and make some amends to Dudley for her reception of the
news.

"I suppose you felt pretty disgusted with me last night," she said at
the breakfast-table.  "I'm sorry, but you took me so violently by
surprise."

He had taken his seat, looking grave and displeased, but his face
relaxed as he replied:

"I'm afraid I was rather sudden.  It seemed the easiest" - he
hesitated, then added - "I hope you'll try to get on with Doris."

"Of course."  Hal turned away on some slight pretext.  "I'd hate giving
you up to any one - you know I would - we've - we've - been very happy
together here, and - " but her voice broke suddenly.

Dudley looked unhappy, but he steadied his voice and said cheerfully:

"Well, it needn't be very different.  If you and Doris will get fond of
each other, it will be the same, only better.  Of course you will live
with us."

"Oh no"; and she tried to smile lightly - "I couldn't - possibly live
without Mrs. Carr now.  I should never be properly dressed, for one
thing, and I should always be forgetting important engagements."  She
changed the subject quickly, seeing he was about to remonstrate.  "Have
you seen Ethel and Basil since - since - "

"No; I'm going to see Basil this afternoon, after taking Doris to
Wimbledon to see Langfier fly, and I shall stay to dinner.  Will you
come up this evening?"

"No; I'm going out.  Perhaps to-morrow - " she hesitated, as if
swallowing a lump in her throat.  "You might give my love to Doris, and
say I'll come soon."  She saw Dudley glance at her inquiringly, and
recklessly dashed into another subject, talking at random until she
left.

In the afternoon she hurried straight off to Lorraine's flat, arriving
a few minutes after Lorraine had come in from a walk in the Park.  She
was standing by the window, drawing off some long gloves, and even Hal
was struck by a sort of newness about her - a bloom and a quiet
radiance that was like a renewal of youth.

She was beautifully dressed as ever, buth with a far simpler note than
usual - something which suggested she wished to look charming, without
attracting attention; something which suppressed the actress in favour
of the woman.

It was as if, surrounded with success and attention night after night,
and for several years, she had wearied of the rle, and put it aside
voluntarily whenever opportunity offered.  She had been wont to be
verry fashionable and striking in her dress and general appearance, but
now Hal noticed vaguely a simpler note all through.

Her face and expression seemed to have changed also.  A certain
hardness and callousness had gone.  Her smile was more genuine, and her
eyes kinder.  In some mysterious way, it was as though Lorraine had won
from the past some gleaming of the woman she might have been under
happier circumstances, and without certain harsh experiences.

And it was all owing to her feeling for Alymer Hermon and his youthful
pride in her.

They met continually now.  Her flat was open to him whenever he liked.
He came to her when he had anything interesting to relate - when he was
depressed and when he was hopeful.  With the inconsequent acceptance of
youth, he took from her what an older man would have regarded a little
shyly, and perhaps feared to take.

She was his pal, his excellent friend, who gave him such sympathy and
interest and encouragement as she could find nowhere else.  Because he
was young, he drank deep and asked no questions.

He did not imagine for a moment that she was in love with him.  True,
other women were; but then they told him so, and alarmed him with their
attentions.  Lorraine was more inclined to laugh at him and make fun of
him, in a jolly, pally sort of way, which made him feel perfectly at
home with her, and successfully banish any questions.

She was more like a man friend, only better, because a man would have
wanted an equal share of interest, whereas Lorraine seemed content to
be interested in him.  She never encouraged him to talk about her
triumphs and her other friends.  She rather implied they were so public
and apparent already she did not want to hear any more of them.

But she was always ready to talk of his hopes and aspirations, and help
him to build foundations to his aircastles.  And already, under her
tuition and help, he had made immense strides.  His work and his
objects had become real to him, ambition had taken root and begun to
push out little upward shoots.  He saw himself one of the leading
lights at the Bar, and instead of lazily scoffing, he liked the
picture.  He wanted to get there, and if Lorraine was ready to help
him, why should she not?  Why bother to ask questions?

Of course she must be fond of him, or she would not do it; but then he
was fond of her too - very fond - and why not?  The mere suggestion of
danger did not occur to him.  She was so many years his senior, and so
celebrated, it never crossed his mind to suppose she could have any
feeling for him beyond the jolly palliness that seemed to have sprung
up naturally between them.

So he came and went between the Temple and her flat and his own
quarters, and life began to assume a bigness of possibility that
drowned all else, and kept him eager and harworking and safe from the
hurtful influences and actions that attend idle hours.

And Lorraine, for the present, walked in her fool's paradise and was
content.  She watched him slowly and surely fill out both physically
and mentally into the promise of his splendid manhood.

She saw his youthful beauty solidifying into the beauty of a man, and
carefully watered and tended those budding shoots of ambition that were
to help him attain his best promise.

For the time being the thwarted mother-love that is in every woman
satisfied her with the evidence of his progress, and she lulled any
other into quiescence, hugging to herself the knowledge that it was she
alone to whom he would owe greatness, if he won it, and that even his
own doting mother had not done, and never could do, the half that she
was doing to start him on a steadfast way that should lead to fame and
usefulness.

She made it her excuse for ignoring the questions which her wider
knowledge could not entirely banish.  To what other results the
friendship might lead she turned a deaf ear.  The other results must
take care of themselves, was her thought; it was enough for her that
she could help to make him great.

She smiled  a little at the thought of the women she had won him from.
He talked to her now freely and openly, though always with that
unassuming modesty which was so attractive.  She knew what he had
already had to combat.  What a life of self-pleasing and gay-living lay
open to him if he chose to take it.  She knew that, if he chose it,
though he might still win a certain amount of fame, it would never be
the well-grounded, staunch, reliable success that she could spur him to.

And so she drew a curtain over the dangers her course might hold, and,
in a light and airy way, threw over him the glow and the warm
attractiveness of her many fascinations and allurements, that she might
keep him free from any foolish engagement or low entanglement, to
concentrate all his mind and his heart upon his work and her.

How long such an aim was likely to satisfy her, or how natural or
unnatural her course, she left with all the other questions, to be
faced, if necessary, later on, or to pass with the swift joy into
oblivion.

At least it was not the first time a woman, scarcely young, and having
her full measure of success, had turned unaccountably to a man very
much her junior, for something she apparently sought in vain from men
of her own age.  It might be strange, but it was not unique; and for
the rest, were not the ways of the little god Love like the ways of
many events - "stranger than fiction"?

His magnificent physique, his extraordinarily beautiful head, and his
no less extraordinary, unassuming modesty, attracted and held her with
links that grew stronger and stronger, and her happiest hours now were
those in which he made himself delightfully at home in her flat, and
added to his charm by talking to her with the old-fashioned,
grandfatherly air she had enjoyed from the first.

And so Hal found a younger and softer Lorraine than she had known for a
long time, waiting to hear the burden of her tale of woe.

They talked it over in every aspect, Hal sitting in her favourite
attitude on a stool at Lorraine's feet; but very little light could be
won through the clouds.  All the consolation Lorraine could suggest was
a possibility that to be engaged and married to a man like Dudley might
change Doris altogether for the better; but Hal, beyond feeling
brighter for having spoken out her dismay, felt there was little indeed
hope of that.

"Have you seen Sir Edwin Crathie again?"  Lorraine asked presently, and
she was surprised to see a spot of colour instantly flame into Hal's
cheeks.

"I've had a long motor ride with him," she said, speaking as if it were
a mere detail.

"_Have you_?" was Lorraine's very expressive rejoinder.

"Why do you say it like that?"  Hal laughed with seeming lightness.
"He just took me for a treat.  He's rather sorry for me, being boxed up
in an office, as he calls it."

"I see.  Well, don't forget he has the reputation for being rather a
dangerous man, old girl."

Hal laughed again.

"I'll tell him so, and go armed with a revolver next time."  She
noticed an inquiring look in Lorraine's eyes, and added: "Don't look so
serious, Lorry; he is old enough to be my father.  He likes a little
amusement, the same as you and Baby Hermon."

She turned away as she spoke, and did not see the swift deepening of
the look of inquiry, nor a certain strange expression that flitted
across Lorraine's face; and almost immediately the door opened, and
Alymer Hermon walked in unannounced.

"Hullo, Hal!" he exclaimed - "it's quite a long time since I ran into
you here."

"Hullo, Baby!" she retorted.  "Why, I declare, you are beginning to
look quite a man."

"If you don't mind I'll pick you up and carry you all the way down the
stairs to the street; then you'll see if I'm a man or not."

"Tut; any big creature could do that!  Got any briefs yet?"

"I have."

Lorraine looked up instantly with an eager, questioning glance - while
Hal asked gaily:

"What is it?...  I suppose the original holder is sick, or dead, or
something, and you are a stop-gap."

"You are wrong, Miss Sharp-tongue.  I hold the brief entirely on my
own.  It hasn't even anything to do with any one in Waltham's Chambers."

And still Lorraine, with shining eyes, watched his face.

"I suppose," said Hal , "the other side have got a very small man, and
they wanted a big one to frighten him?"

"Wrong again.  The other side has Pym, and he is quite six feet in
height."

"Then perhaps he looks clever, and they believe in contrasts."

"I shall carry you down to the street yet," threateningly; "you are
running grave risks."

"So is the poor man trusting his defence to you."

"It happens to be a lady."

Hal clapped in her hands.

"Of course," she cried; "now we are getting at it.  The lady chose you
because she thought your wig and gown becoming.  How many interviews
shall you be having with her?"

"I couldn't say, but we had one this afternoon."

"And was she very charming?  Did she call you Baby?"

He shrugged his shoulders and turned to Lorraine.

"I only waste my substance trying to cope with any one as obtuse as
Hal.  Is she going to stay to dinner?"

"I'm afraid so," smilingly.

He took up his stand on the rug, with his back to the fire and looked
down at Hal on her footstool.

"It's a pity about the obtuseness," he commented, "because she is
really rather nice to look at.  She has improved so much lately."

"Oh no, I haven't," tilting her nose in the air.  "I am exactly the
same; but you have acquired better taste.  Is _he_ going to stay to
dinner, Lorraine?""
"I'm afraid so.  You will have to call a truce, because I want to hear
all about the brief; and I shall hear nothing if you persist in
wrangling."

"It isn't my fault," he said.  "I always try to be friends."

"Well, as far as that goes, I always _try_ to like you," Hal retorted
with a laugh.

"You would find it much easier if you did not hurl insults at me.
Begin another plan altogether."

"Come along to dinner," put in Lorraine, rising, "and let us hear about
this brief."

She led the way to the dining-room, and they had a merry little meal,
arranging all about the congratulatory dinner Lorraine proposed to give
for Alymer to celebrate the important occasion of his first brief.

Afterwards Hal drove to the theatre with her, and stayed a short time
in her room while, as Lorraine phrased it, she put on her war-paint.

Then she went rather sadly home alone, feeling lost and unhappy about
Dudley.  It crossed her mind once that Lorraine and Alymer Hermon
seemed be on very much more familiar terms than previously, but she
paid little heed to the thought, merely supposing that it amused
Lorraine to help him in his profession.

She sat over the fire and tried to read, but presently the book went
down into her lap, and her eyes sought the cheery flicker of the
flames.  Only there was no answering glow in her usually bright face,
rather a sad uneasiness and perplexity, as if circumstances she hardly
knew how to cope with were closing in upon her.

She felt she had come to a difficult path in life she would have to
face alone; for in her friendship with Sir Edwin Crathie neither Dudley
nor Lorraine could help her.

And, gazing into the fire with serious, thoughtful eyes, it was neither
Dudley and Doris, nor Lorraine and Alymer who finally held her
thoughts, but sir Edwin Crathie himself.




CHAPTER XXII


The first time Sir Edwin rang up the newspaper office after the
memorable Sunday it happened that Hal had gone into the country to
report an opening ceremony, graced by Royalty, so she was saved the
necessity of framing a reply.

One of the usual reporters being ill, the news editor had asked her if
she would like to take his place, and she had eagerly accepted the
chance.  It meant a day in the country, travelling by special train,
and the writing of the report did not worry her at all, as she had
already served her apprenticeship to journalism, and knew how to seize
on the most interesting points and condense them into a small space.

She had a genius for making friends also, and after an excellent
champagne lunch, and a cup of tea captured for her by a pleasant-faced
man whom she afterwards discovered to be the Earl of Roxley, she
motored back to the railway station with a well-known aeronaut, who
promised to take her for a "fly" some day.  They travelled up to town
in the same compartment, and as Hal had to have her article ready for
press when she reached the office, it was necessary to write it in the
train.

The "flying man" wished to turn his hand to journalism too, and
attempted to help her, without much success, though with a good deal of
entertainment for himself.  He was specially amused at her
determination to lay considerable stress on the fact that one of the
horses in the royal carriage fell down between the station and the park.

"What's the good of putting that in?" he argued; "it is of no
importance."

"Why, it's almost the most important thing of all," she declared.  "You
evidently don't know much about journalism.  The Public will not be
half as interested in the King's speech as in the information that one
of the horses fell down, and that the King then put his hands on the
Queen's, and told her not to be frightened."

"But he didn't; and the horse only slipped."

"But you're too dense!" she cried, "and, anyhow, you can't be certain
that he didn't.  It's what he ought to have done, and the British
Public will be awfully pleased to know that he did.  They'll be
frightfully interested in the horse falling down, too.  I suppose you
would leave it out, and give dated of the building of the edifice, and
the different styles of architecture, and the names of illustrious
people connected with it.  As if any one wanted to know that!  The
horse will make far better reading, though I daresay I ought to work in
a few costs of things.  The B.P. loves to know what a thing costs."

"Well, why not value the horse, as you think so much of it? or say that
it snapped a trace in half which cost two guineas, and was bought in
Bond Street?"

They both laughed, and then Hal said seriously:

"I think I'll make it kick over the centre pole, only then perhaps some
of the other reporters will catch it for not having seen the kick also.
 I once wrote an account of a garden party, and left out that the
horses of the Prime Minister's carriage shied and swerved, and one
wheel caught against the gate-post.  As a matter of fact, it did not do
much more than graze it, but some journalist wrote a thrilling account
of how the carriage nearly turned over; and I've never forgotten the
chief's face when he asked me why I hadn't mentioned the accident to
the Prime Minister's carriage.  I said there wasn't an accident, and he
snapped: 'Well you'd better have turned them all in a heap in the road
than left it out altogether!'

"I've never made the same mistake since," she finished, "and now, if
the chief sees my paragraphs, he has to ring some one up occasionally,
and make sure I haven't gone out of bounds altogether."

"Well, if you're quite determined to lie... I mean romance... why not
do it thouroughly?  Let the King leap out of the carriage, with the
Queen in his arms, and the royal coachman fall backwards off the box -
and - and - both the horses burst out laughing?"

"I'd get the sack for that," Hal spluttered, busily plying her pencil,
"and then I'd break my heart, because I'm in love with the chief."

"Oh" - with a low laugh, "and is it quite hopeless?"

"Quite.  The most hopeless _grande passion_ that ever was.  He's been
married twice already, and the second is still very much alive.  Did
the Queen wear a black hat, or a dark purple one?"

"Dark purple, of course, like her dress.  Why, I could write the thing
better than you."

"I'm sure you could, if you might have half the newspaper.  I don't
know where you'd be in thirty-six lines!"

"By Jove!  Have you got to squeeze it all into thirty-six lines?"

"Less, if possible.  There's been a row in Berlin, and we have to allow
for thrilling developments, which may crowd out lots of other
paragraphs."

"And supposing you want it a few lines longer?"

"Then the compiler will add a bit on about the weather, or throw in
another dress description, or something.  I'm putting you in now,"
scribbling on; "but I don't know your name?"

"And I'm not going to tell it to you for your precious paragraph, so
you'll have to cross that bit out again."

"Not at all," airily: "a well-known aeronaut, who has recently beaten
the distance-record, and is looking remarkably well in spite of his
advanced years, was among the distinguished guests!"

He had to cry "pax" then.

"I give you up," he said; "you're too much for me!  But I'll take your
for a fly the first opportunity I get.  Will you come?"

"Will I come!..." in eager tones.  "Oh, won't I?"

And he promised to arrange it.

When they reached Euston, Hal had to dash for the first taxi, and tear
to the office with her report, and it was not until she was leaving
that the call boy told her a gentleman had asked for her on the
telephone in the afternoon.

"Did he give any name?" she asked.

"Yes, Mr. Crathie."

Hal suppressed a smile.  "I suppose you told him I was out."

"Yes, miss.  He wanted to know when you would be back, and I asked Mr.
Watson, and he told me to say 'Not before evening.'"

Hal climbed to the top of a bus, and journeyed homewards with a
thoughtful air.  Of course he would ring her up again the next day, and
then what was she to say?

In the meantime, looming big in her immediate horizon was the visit to
be paid to Holloway that evening.  She was going up without Dudley,
having expressed a wish to do so, with which he had willingly complied.
 She felt it would be easier not to appear forced without him, and
would be fairer on Doris also.  Yet she dreaded the visit very much,
and longed that it was over.

Ethel opened the door to her, as she happened to be in the little
kitchen close beside it, and Hal thought she looked very ill as she
grasped her hand with warm friendliness, saying:

"How nice of you to come and see Doris so soon."

"What are you doing in the kitchen?" said Hal.  "I want to come and
help."

"I'm only making a salad, and shall not be long.  You must go to the
parlour"; and she laughed at the quaint, old-fashioned word.

"No, I'm coming to help," and Hal walked past her, through the  open
door.  "How's Basil?  Dudley spoke as if he was not quite so well just
now."

"I'm afraid he isn't," with sudden, hardly veiled anxiety; "but it may
only be the foggy weather."

To any one else Ethel would probably have asserted that he was well as
usual, and changed the subject; but she liked Hal specially, and showed
it by being quite honest with her.  She also knew perfectly well that
Dudley's engagement must have been a great shock to his only sister,
not solely because she had nothing whatever in common with Doris, but
because she herself must love him; and her heart felt very tender and
friendly over her.

Although Hal had come to see Doris, she did not refrain from following
her inclination, and seating herself on the kitchen table to chat to
Ethel while she made the salad.  Doris would keep, was her rapid mental
conclusion, and they two might not get another chance of a few words
alone.

Chatting thus, it was interesting to note the similarity that existed
between these wielders of the pen, each daily immersed in a City office.

Each had the same clear, frank eyes, the same independent poise of
head, the same air of capable energy and self-dependence.  Each, too,
had the same rather colourless skin, from lack of fresh air, though
whereas Ethel looked tired and worn, Hal seemed strong and fresh and
wore no air of delicacy.

Then Doris came, with her pink-and-white daintiness, and spoke to them
both with a little triumphant air of condescension; for was not she
engaged to be married, whereas clever, working women usually became
"old maids"?

Hal tried not to seem too offhand, but it was quite impossible for her
to gush, and she could not pretend a sudden affection just because of
the engagement.  So she just said something about Dudley being very
happy, and hoped they would have good luck, and then went to the
sitting-room to talk to Basil, entertaining him immensely with her
account of the day's ceremony, and her haphazard friendship with the
"flying man", who was going to take her in his aeroplane.

"Who was he?" Basil asked.  "Has he won any prizes?"

"I don't know.  He dit not tell me.  I did not discover his name
either, but he was some relation of the 'Lord-of-the-Manor' person who
received the King."

"You don't know his name?" asked Doris in a shocked voice.  "Weren't
you introduced?"

"Never a bit of it," laughed Hal.  "I was left behind when the last fly
had gone to the station, and he heard me asking anxiously how soon one
would get back again, and immediately offered me a seat in the motor he
was going in.  Another man was with him, a much be-medalled officer,
who was somewhat heavy in hand to talk to, and at the station we gave
him the slip."

"How can he take you for a fly if you don't know who he is?"

"Well, I dare say he won't; quite likely he didn't mean it; but if he
did, he can easily find me at the office.  He knew my name, and what
paper I was there for.  They bot knew, which probably accounts for the
gentleman with the medals being somewhat ponderous - soldiers are
usually snobbish - and he may not have liked having to ride to the
station with a newspaper woman."

"But if the other man was the Lord of the Manor's brother?"

"Oh, that wouldn't make any difference.  He might very well be less
self-important than anything in a bit of scarlet and medals if he had
been the Lord of the Manor himself.  Why, the Earl of Roxley got tea
for me, and was most attentive."

Doris's eyes opened wider.  She had always secretly entertained rather
a superior attitude towards Hal and her sister, and was glad she was
not an office clerk.  The big, breezy, working world, where the
individual is taken on his or her merits apart from birth, or standing,
or occupation, was quite unknown to her; and that Hal's original,
attractive personality might open doors for ever shut to her mediocre,
pretty young-ladyhood, would never enter her mind.

"I don't think I should care to talk to any one without being
introduced," she remarked a little affectedly, to which Hal shrugged
her shoulders and commented:

"It's just as well you haven't to knock about in the world, then.  Any
one with an ounce of common sense and perspicacity knows when it is
safe, and when it is sheer folly."

Basil watched her with an amused air.

"I'm sure you do," he said.

"Yes."  She smiled infectiously.  "I've only once been spoken to
unpleasantly in London, after knocking about for seven years, and then
I offered the man a sixpence.  I said: 'I'm sorry I haven't any more,
and I can't spare that, but if you are hungry!...'  He looked as if he
would like to slay me, and vanished."

Doris still looked slightly disapproving, and when at last Hal rose to
go, she half-unconsciously asked Ethel with her eyes to accompany her
to get her hat, instead of her prospective sister-in-law.  And when
they were alone, Ethel looked into Hal's expressive face, and guessing
something of what she carefully hid, said sympathetically:

"You and Dudley have always been so much to each other; I am afraid you
must feel it a little having to share him already with another."

Suddenly and inexplicably Hal's eyes filled with tears, and she turned
away quite unable to answer.

Ethel pretended not to notice, but her heart bled for her, knowing how
much worse it was than just the fact of the engagement.

"I'm so wrapped up in Basil," she went on, "that if it had happened to
me I should have felt quite heartbroken, however much I told myself I
wanted his happiness."

Hal dabbed her eyes a little viciously.

"Of course I want him to be happy," she managed to say; "but it is nice
of you to understand."

"There's one thing," Ethel continued, "you will become a sort of
relation, and you've no idea how pleased Basil and I will be about
that."

"Will you?" Hal smiled through her tears, "I rather wonder at it."

"Of course we shall.  Basil and I think you are one of the finest
characters we have ever known.  You've no idea how proud we are when
you come to see us," which proved Ethel's understanding heart, for a
little generous praise is a kind healer to a sore spirit.

Hal looked into her eyes, with a pleased light in her own.

"You are too generous, but it's nice to be thought well of by any one
like you and Basil.  I shall remember it when I am silly enough to be
downhearted, and it will cheer me up."

She had to hurry away then to catch a train, and as she went her mind
was full of the thought:

"Why, oh why, had Dudley, in his blindness, wooed the younger sister?"

"Well?" he said, as she entered their sitting-room, where he was
reading over the fire.  "How did you get on?"

"Oh, splendidly" - trying to throw a little enthusiasm into her voice.
"Doris looked amazingly pretty."

She show a soft light in his eyes, and because it rather maddened her,
she hastened to add: "But I see a great change in Basil."

"Yes?...  I wondered if you would.  I was afraid he did not seem so
well."

"Dudley" - with sudden seriousness - "when Basil dies, it will just
about break Ethel up.  She idolises him."

"I know; but she can hardly wish him to live on if he continues to grow
worse."

"I suppose not; but it's rather awful to think of what it will mean to
her to lose him.  And she's so sympathetic and tender-hearted."  Hal
stood a moment looking gravely at the fire - "you know, I think she's
the most splendid person I've ever known."

"Splendid!... " a trifle testily.  "Why?  Splendid seems an odd word to
use."

"It's the one that suits Ethel Hayward best of all.  Anything else
would be too commonplace.  When I think what her life is - the endless
struggle to make both ends meet - work morning, noon, and night - and
on the top of it all the brother she adores a helpless, suffering
invalid, it quite overawes me.  If she were bitter and complaining it
would be different, but she is nearly always cheerful and hopeful and
ready to think of some one else's troubles.  And yet she isn't
goody-goody - nor what one describes as "worthy'; she's just human
through and through."

"She sometimes seems to me a little severe," he said.

"Severe!... Oh, Dudley, she is the kindest soul alive."

"Perhaps she was tired; but it seemed to me, considering Doris's youth,
she expected rather a lot of her."

"Ah!..."

Hal turned away, and picked up an evening paper.  The exclamation might
have meant anything, yet Dudley half knew it meant that in some way Hal
believed Doris had wilfully misrepresented her sister, and, naturally
resenting the inference, he returned to his book and said no more.

Hal lingered a little longer, passed one or two remarks on the evening
news, told him of her day in the country, and then went to bed.

Yet, in spite of her soreness towards Doris, something in her evening
with Ethel had unaccountably cheered and refreshed her - the kindly
praise, the warm-hearted affection, the sight of the strong, womanly
face, unembittered by its heavy sorrow.

Hal stood at her window, and glanced out over the City, and felt
renewed in her determination to withstand Sir Edwin Crathie's advances.
 She knew that he was treating her with a lack of respect he would not
have dared to show a woman in his own circle.

He was treating her as a City typist; and however much she wished to
prolong it, she knew she owed it to herself to cut it adrift.

And the next day, when the anticipated telephone call came, her
resolution was firm and unshaken.

"Tell the gentleman I am engaged," she told the call boy.

He came back again a moment later to know what time she would be
disengaged, and she gave the message:  "It is quite impossible to say.
I have some most important work on hand."

The small boy grinned in a way that made Hal long to box his ears, but
she returned to her work, and pretended not to see.

At the other end of the wire the speaker sat back in his chair and
muttered an oath; then for some moments he stared gloomily at his desk.

"Damn it!  I like her pluck," ran his thoughts; "but I don't mean to be
put off like that.  I've got to see her again somehow, if it's only to
prove I'm not the cad she thinks me."






CHAPTER XXIII


The following afternoon when Hal left the office about half-past four
she saw a motor she recognised a little way down the street, and was
almost immediately accosted by Sir Edwin himself.

"I knew you left at this time," he said frankly, "so I came to meet
you."

Hal looked a little taken aback.

"I wonder why you did that," was all she found to say.

"Well, it was the only way, since you won't come to the telephone, and
I am afraid to call on you in Bloomsbury.  I want to talk to you.  Come
along and have some tea."

Hal hesitated, looking doubtfully at the motor, but he urged her on.

"Come; surely you're not afraid to have a cup of tea with me.  We'll go
to the Carlton - or the Ritz if you prefer it - and take a conspicuous
table."

"In my office garments!" with a low laugh.  "I don't want to be taken
for your housekeeper."

"My housekeeper is a deuce of a swell," laughing in his turn.  "She
certainly wouldn't be seen in a last year's frock; but you're one of
the lucky people who manage to look smart, even in office clothes, as
you call them - so come along."

Hal got into the motor.

"Which is it to be?  Ritz or Carlton?"

"Oh, Carlton - and not the centre table."

"How do you manage it?" he said, as they glided off, looking at her
with critical, admiring eyes.

"Manage what?  I wish you wouldn't look at me like a doctor studying my
health.  I shall put my tongue out in a minute."

"Don't do that.  A colleague or an opponent would be sure to be
looking, and I don't know which would be worse.  Manage to look smart
in anything, of course I mean."

"Oh, it's Lorraine Vivian and her maid; they loathe to see me dowdy."

"With a little help from the Almighty, who gave you a haughty little
nose and a short upper lip," he told her laughingly.  "You're been very
angry with me, I'm afraid, and no doubt I deserved it, but I'm going to
make you be friends again and forgive me."

"You won't find it easy."

"I dare say not; but I'm going to try all the same.  Shall I begin with
a humble apology?"

"You couldn't be humble.  I shouldn't believe in it."

"I believe I could with you - which means a great deal.  Tell me, were
you fully determined not to speak to me on the telephone, and not to
see me again?"

"Most certainly I was."

"What nonsense!  And did you really suppose I should submit without
making an effort to see you, and persuade you to be friends again?"

Hal tilted her nose up a little, and glanced away as she replied a
trifle scathingly:

"I supposed, having found I was not the sort of girl you imagined, and
not one you could take liberties with, that possibly our friendship
would cease to interest you."

He coloured slightly.

"You hit hard, but I suppose I have deserved it.  I shall now have to
prove to you that I've turned over a new leaf, and deserve it no
longer."

They stopped before the Carlton as he spoke, and he led the way into
the lounge, and to a side table.

"I'm sure you'll trust me this far," he said; "people stare so when one
is in the middle of the room."

Hal sat down and drew off her gloves, feeling, in spite of herself,
unmistakably happy.  It was good to be there, instead of trudging home
to Bloomsbury; and it was specially good to be chatting to him again.

A dear friend may be always a dear friend, and yet not just the one one
wants at the moment.  When things are difficult, and irritating, and
disappointing, the pleasantest companion is apt to be one with so much
individual regard for us at the time that we can hold forth upon our
troubles without any fear of boring our listener.

When Hal had poured her tale of woe into Lorraine's ear, she had known
that Lorraine was genuinely interested and sorry - and yet, also, that
something else occupied her mind at the same time.  Sitting now,
opposite to Sir Edwin Crathie, it was perfectly apparent for the time
being that his mind was entirely at her service.

This was further shown by the fact that he realised something was
worrying her before she told him.

"What's the matter?" he asked abruptly; "you look as if something very
boring had happened."

"It has."

Hal kept her eyes lowered a moment, with a thoughtful air, and the
corners of the fascinating mouth drooped a little.

"What has happened?...  Tell me what is bothering you."

He spoke reremptorily, yet with an evident concern for her that made
the peremptory tone dangerously alluring.  Hal remained silent, though
she felt her pulses quicken, and he added:

"Come, we are going to be friends again; aren't we?  I've told you I'm
very sorry; I can't do more.  You will really have to forgive me now."

She looked into his face, and something in his eyes told her he was
quite genuine for the time.  Of course it might be rash, and unwise,
and various other things, but it had been a difficult, trying week, and
his sympathy was passing good now.  Sir Edwin met her gaze for a
moment, and then lowered his.

He thought it was chiefly when her eyes laughed that he wanted to kiss
her, but when they had that serious, rather appealing expression, he
began to feel they were more disturbing still.  Mastering his
unmanageable senses with an effort, he looked up again, and said:

"Well, what is it?  Of course you must tell me."

"Brother Dudley is going to be married," said Hal with her usual
directness.

"When?"  And Sir Edwin gave a low exclamation of surprise.  "Isn't it
rather sudden?"

"Very," in dry tones.

"And I suppose you don't want to love your prospective sister-in-law
all in a hurry."

"I don't want to love her at all."

"Then I don't suppose you will," with a little laugh. "Presumably you
know her."

"I have known her a long time.  If I had been asked, she is the last
girl I could have believed Dudley would care for.  I don't believe he
does care for her in the real sense.  She is very pretty, and she
wanted to marry him, and she just played on his feelings."

"What do you call 'in the real sense' ?" he asked pointedly.

"A pink spot burned in Hal's cheeks; she felt the question a little
beside the mark, and did not want to answer it.

"She has rather a dull home, and is very poor, and I think she thought
on the whole life would be improved if she were Dudley's wife."

"And that is not the real sense?" insistently.

"It certainly is not love."

"Well, you haven't yet told me what is?"

"I don't know much about it, and" - hastily - "I don't want to.  When
it's real it hurts, and when it isn't real it's just feebleness."

"Still, you must know some day."

He liked to see the spot of colour spreading in her cheeks, and the
frank eyes growing a little defiant as he pressed her against her will.

"It doesn't follow that I must.  Perhaps I shall just be feeble, and
marry for a home 	and luxuries."

"Never," with conviction.  "You'll - Hal, you'll get it badly when once
you're caught."

"I never said you might call me 'Hal'."

"Didn't you?  Well, I apologise.  May I?"

She could not help laughing.

"You evidently mean to; and I suppose you usually have your own way."

"Very often.  That's sensible of you.  Of course you are sometimes
annoying sensible and practical.  I don't know that I ever liked any
one quite so level-headed before.  It never appealed to me.  Yet,
somehow, I think you could lose your head.  You've got it in you to do
so.  I wouldn't give tuppence for a woman who hadn't."

Hal was silent, and, as usual, he pressed his point.

"Do you think you could lose your head?"

"I don't think I shall," was the evasive answer.

"I wonder," he said.

She felt him looking hard into her face, and moved restlessly beneath a
scrutiny that quickened her pulses and warmed her blood in a way that
was altogether new.  Then suddenly she looked up.

"Don't you think we are rather talking drivel?  Let's get back to the
original subject.  I don't want to lose my head - it's rather a nice
one - sound and reliable and all that."

He sat back in his chair with a laugh.

"You're very clever," he told her admiringly.  "I always seem to be
out-flanked in the end.  Very well then, Brother Dudley has got engaged
foolishly, and Hal has been quietly fretting, instead of being a
sensible little woman, and telling her friend all about it straight
away.  What are you going to do now?"

"I can't do anything.  He won't get married for a few months anyway."

"And when he does?"

"Then I shall stay where I am, and make the best of it, I suppose...
but... but" - her voice broke a little - "I'm a positive fool about
Dudley.  I can't bear to lose him."

"Poor little woman.  Well, I'll be good to you if you'll let me.  I
dare say I can brighten things up a little.  Every cloud has a silver
lining, you know."

"I don't know where Dudley's will be," with a wintry smile.  "It
wouldn't be so hard if I thought there was any chance of his being
happy.  But there isn't.  He doesn't in the least know her real
character."

They sat on until seven o'clock, and then Hal rose to go, feeling
happier than she had done ever since they last met.

"Well, am I forgiven?" he asked, as she buttoned her gloves.

"You are, for the present," with an arch glance; "but I reserve the
right to retract at a moment's notice."

"And in the meantime you will prove it by coming out to lunch on
Sunday?  We might go to the Zoo afterwards, and make friends with some
of the animals."

At the first suggestion of lunch Hal had been ready to shy away, but
the idea of the Zoo on Sunday afternoon was too much for her, and she
said with unmistakable longing:

"I should simply love the Zoo."  Then, after a pause: "Couldn't I meet
you there about three?"

"But why wait until three?"  It is not very friendly of you to refuse
to lunch with me."

"I usually go to Lorraine" - somewhat lamely.

"Why not bring Miss Vivian with you?"

"Oh, could I?" eagerly; "that would be splendid - if she is disengaged."

A curious little half smile crossed his eyes at her eagerness; but he
only said:

"Certainly, and if she cares to bring a friend, to make the party an
even number, I shall be only too pleased.  Shall we say the Piccadilly,
for a change, at 1.30?"

Hal thanked him, and as she sped homewards in a taxi he had procured
for her, she viewed the prospect with real delight.

Dudley, of course, would be spending his Sunday with Doris, and she and
Lorraine, supposing the latter were disengaged, might have found the
afternoon a little long alone.  The evening was the occasion of the
dinner-party to commemorate Alymer Hermon's first brief, so it was very
likely Lorraine would be free at midday.

She thought it was nice of Sir Edwin to invite her friend as well, and
as she reviewed the afternoon meeting, her heart was foolishly glad
over his apology, and insistent determination to be friends.  It was
evident, she believed, that if she adhered to her resolute resistance
of familiarity, she would be able to keep him at a discreet distance,
and they might enjoy a really delightful friendship.

Her eyes were smiling and glad at the little upper window that night.
She had hated cutting off their friendship.  The days had been dull and
dragging without even a telephone chat with him; and though she still
told herself it was chiefly because of the shock of Dudley's
engagement, she knew it was a little for his sake also.

And she thought further, if they might now include Lorraine in some of
their meetings, it would be an added safeguard, and very entertaining
as well.  She meant to telephone to her the first thing in the morning
to fix up their Sunday engagement.

Inquiries on the telephone, however, the next morning, elicited the
information that Lorraine had already arranged to go out to lunch; and
thus Hal found herself unexpectedly thrown on her own resources.  A
little note from Ethel asking her to accompany Dudley if she had
nothing better to do, placed her in a further awkward position.

She did not want to go to Holloway, to swell the number of mouths to be
fed out of Ethel's slender housekeeping purse, and add one more to be
cooked for, etc., on Ethel's one free day.  Finally, because it was the
simplest, as well as the pleasantest thing to do, she telephoned Sir
Edwin, and told him Lorraine could not accompany her on Sunday, but she
would be there herself, and afterwards go to the Zoo.

And at the other end of the wire Sir Edwin smiled, an enigmatical smile
that was unmistakably pleased, as he put back the receiver, and glanced
towards the cosy fire in his grate.

"I wonder," he said to himself meditatively, "if one could make her
care, whether she could care enough to lose her head."





CHAPTER XXIV


It was rather a curious circumstance, that on the occasion of
Lorraine's dinner-party, Alymer Hermon was the first to notice an
indefinable change in Hal.  To the others she was only gayer than
usual, more sparkling, better-looking.

From the Zoological Gardens Sir Edwin had taken her home in a taxi, and
after being a delightful companion all the afternoon, had said good-bye
in just the friendly, pally spirit that Hal wished, without exhibiting
any alarming symptoms whatever to disturb her peace of mind.  He had
indeed been at his very best; far nicer than ever before; and together
they had thoroughly enjoyed their intercourse, through iron bars, with
the animals they both loved.

Moreover, his knowledge on most subjects did not exclude zoology, and
he was able to tell her numberless little details of the ways and
habits of beasts that Hal rejoiced to hear, because she loved all
four-footed things.

And then there had been the pleasant consciousness of a new winter
costume, that was not only very up-to-date, but remarkable becoming;
and Hal was true woman enough to enjoy the knowledge that she looked
her best.  Neither was it in any degree a mediocre "best"; and even Sir
Edwin was a little surprised to find himself with a companion who
attracted nearly as many admiring glances as various lady friends who
were recognised beauties.

Her slim, graceful figure was singularly perfect, and, als he observed
with fresh pleasure each time they met, she walked with a natural
elegance and grace that were a delight to the eye.  And happiness gave
a faint pink flush to her cheeks and a light to her eyes, that somehow
seemed to radiate gaiety; and her intense power of enjoyment
communicated itself to others in a way that was wholly delifhtful.

So they spent a gay afternoon, which cemented the former
acquaintanceship into a firmer bond of friendship, and because of it he
vowed within himself he would play fair with her, and make no more
advances he was not prepared to follow up in an honourable spirit.

For Hal, it was enough that the past mistake seemed genuinely regretted
and wiped out, and that all his manner to her now held deference and
respect.  And she was intensely glad - almost alarmingly glad, if she
had stopped to consider; only that would have cast a shadow on the
sunshine; and she preferred to take the sunshine while it offered, and
leave the future to take care of itself.

And in the meantime there was Lorraine's dinner-party, instead of a
lonely evening, and once more she dressed herself with care and skill;
and later stood up straight and slim in Lorraine's pretty drawing-room,
radiating happiness, and surprising even old friends with her goodlooks.

Alymer Hermon remarked it first.  He was standing beside her on the
hearth, and he looked down from his great height with laughing,
quizzical eyes and said:

"You're looking astonishingly pretty to-night.  Have you been
consulting a beauty specialist?"

Dick Bruce and Quin laughed delightedly.

"Why, of course!" cried Dick, digging his hands deep into his pockets,
and giving himself a little gleeful shake,  "I've been puzzling my head
to grasp what it was.  I'd forgotten all about the beauty specialists.
It must have cost an awful lot, Hal."

"It did," she told them; "but you've no idea how clever they are.  They
can renovate the most hopeless faces.  I'm sure you'd all find it worth
while running to the expense."

"Now, come Hal," objected Quin laughingly.  "We can't have the ornament
of our flat insulted like that.  The rising barrister needs no beauty
specialist, you must admit."

Hal looked up at the giant with twitching lips.

"I was going to suggest a brain specialist for him.  It won't be much
use getting lots of briefs because he looks nice in his wig and gown if
he hasn't the brains to win his cases."

Hermon caught her by the shoulders to shake her, and at that moment
Lord Denton quietly entered the room.

Lorraine had met him in the hall, while hastening across for something
she had forgotten, and told him to go in, so that he entered
unannounced, and saw the group before they knew of his presence.

Especially he seemed to see the two on the hearthrug.  Hal, with her
shining eyes, rising coulour, and laughing lips, and Hermon with a sort
of answering glow in his face, boyishly gripping her shoulders as if to
shake her.  He stood and looked at them a moment without speaking, then
Hal espied him, and thinking he had that instant entered, exclaimed:

"Help!... Help!...  Lord Denton, I am caught in the clutches of
Leviathan."

He came forward smillingly.

"Leviathan does not look as if he meant to eat you; and even if he did,
I don't believe my courage would run to closing with
six-foot-five-and-a-half."

"Awful, isn't it?" she said, releasing herself and giving him her hand.
 "He is like those lanky pieces of corn which are all stalk and no
head.  Have you seen him before?"

"Once," offering his hand to Hermon.  "Delighted to see you again.  I
hear you've made a hit already.  My cousin tells me his friend is
charmed with your way of grappling with her case."

"Did you take her by the shoulders?" asked Hal wickedly, rubbing her
own.

"No,' Lord Denton told her.  "He was very grave indeed.  You must give
him his due, Miss Pritchard.  You've seen him grave yourself, haven't
you now?"

"Yes; and he looked like a boiled owl.  On the whole, I prefer him
imbecile."

Alymer turned on her threateningly, but she slipped behind the other
two, saying:

"Have you met these also, Lord Denton.  Mr. St. Quintin, of Shoreditch,
and my cousin, Dick Bruce, poet, novelist, and mother's help."

Denton shook hands with them genially, and then Lorraine came back, and
they all followed her to the dining-room.

The repast was a very gay one.  Every one was in the best of spirits,
and, which is more important still, all were in attune, and there was
no dissentient note.  Hal was perhaps the gayest, and Lord Denton found
himself watching her almost if he were seeing her for the first time.
She seemed to him to have developed amazingly in the few months since
he last met her, but he supposed girls of her age often developed
quickly.

Yet even then it seemed a little strange that the merry, rather crude
young typist, as he had regarded her before, should so easily appear a
sparkling, distinguished guest.  He could not help a little mental
comparision with Lorraine, not in any way to the latter's detriment,
but with a vague thought at the back of his mind concerning her and
Hermon.

Lorraine would always be beautiful: her whole face and form were
modelled on lines that would stand the ravages of many years; and for
him she would ever be one of the dearest of women; but could she match
Hal's young, vigorous, independence, that was very likely to prove more
attractive than a generously given devotion?

Men, like women, are drawn to an indifference that piques them; and he,
man of the world that he was, foresaw a strong irresistible attraction
about Hal's spirited independence.

But, on the other hand, Lorraine was intensely sympathetic and
understanding, as well as beautiful; and it seemed strange indeed if
any man she chose to enslave could resist her.

He watched Hermon bend his fair head down to her dark one, with an
affectionate, protective air, that was very becoming to him; and
observed that with Hal it was all sparring, and told himself Lorraine
had nothing to fear.

They toasted Hermon on his brief, and on the laurel wreath Dick
announced he already perceived sprouting on his manly brow.  Hal said
it was only a daisy chain, or the halo of a cherubim; and the laurels
were rightly sprouting on Dick's brow as a novelist.

Hermon returned thanks in a witty, clever little speech, during which
Lorraine seemed scarcely able to take her eyes from his face, and Lord
Denton recognised more fully the extraordinary attraction such a man
must wield, whether by intention or quite unconsciously.

He pictured him towering a head and shoulders above nearly every one
around at the law courts, with his clear-cut, fine face, looking yet
more striking in the severe setting of a wig and gown; and he knew that
Lorraine had made no mistake when she said he only wanted impetus and a
chance to make a name for himself.  If he could rap out a dainty little
speech like this at a moment's notice, wearing just that air of
unpretentious, boyish humour, his path ought undoubtedly to be a path
of roses, petted by women, admired and appreciated by men.

"In conclusion," he was saying, "may I suggest a toast to Miss
Pritchard?  I am sure you will all join me in offering her our warmest
congratulations upon her sudden and unlooked-for promotion, from a
somewhat nondescript young person to a brilliant and beautiful society
belle."

"Speech! speech!" cried Dick and Quin to her gleefully, noisely
rattling their glasses, and Hal got to her feet.

"Ladies and gentleman and Baby Alymer Hermon," she began.  "You must
allow me to acknowledge your kind toast by congratulating you all, in
return, upon the sudden and swift development of you powers of vision
and perspicacity: equalled only, I may say, by your extraordinary
dulness in not having observed long ago those traits for which you are
pleased, at this late hour, to offer me your congratulations.  Before I
sit down I should like to suggest we all drink the healths of the
celebrated actress who is our hostess, of a bishop in the making -"
signifying Quin; "a great novelist in the brewing, and a gentleman
justly celebrated for the eloquence and ease with which he does nothing
at all" - and she bowed to Lord Denton.

"Capital!" he exclaimed.  "I am evidently dining in very distinguished
company to-night"; a little later, turning to Dick, he added: "How
soon, may I ask, will this great novel be procurable by the general
public?"

Before Dick could reply, Hal intercepted gaily:

"Well, I think the carrots and turnips have fallen out as to which
takes precedence at a dinner-party: isn't that so, Dick?  And until the
difficult question is settled, progress halts."

"Something of the kind," agreed Dick promptly; "and there is also
discord among the vegetable marrows and pumpkins on a similar question;
but when the Baby Brigade has settled the views of the Trade Unions,
and reversed the Osborne Judgment, we shall be able to proceed
smoothly."

"It sounds a very extraordinary type of novel," said Lorraine.

"It is.  I wanted, if possible, to write something even more imbecile
than has ever yet been written.  I have not the patience for great
length; nor the wit for brilliant satire; nor the imagination for te
popular, spicy, impossible, ill-flavoured romance; so I have chosen the
other line, adopted by the great majority, and aim at purposeless,
pointless imbecility."

"And is Hal the model for your heroine?" asked Hermon.

When Hal's indignation and epithets had subsided, Quin remarked that he
supposed the book fairly bristled with mothers, and with paragraphs of
good advice to them.

"Well, yes," Dick admitted.  "There are certainly a good many mothers -
far more mothers than wives, in fact."

"Oh, naughty!" put in Lord Denton.

"Not at all.  It has to do with a theory.  It is to bring out the
common sense of vegetables compared to humans.  Humans condemn millions
of women, specially born for motherhood, to purposeless, joyless
spinsterhood, all on account of a prejudice.  No green, brainless,
commonplace vegetable would be guilty of such unutterable folly as
that."

"Don't be too sweeping," quoth Quin.  "In the East End women are still
mothers from choice; and given decent, healthy conditions, they would
proudly raise an army to protect their country from her threatening
foes.  It is not their fault that 50 per cent of their offspring are
sickly, anaemic little weeds."

"It sounds as if your book has a serious side in spite of its
imbecility?" suggested Lorraine.

"Imbecility and madness are usually full of seriousness," Dick told her
- "far more so than commonplace rationalism."

"And do you want to revolutionise society?"

"Oh dear no; what an alarming idea!"

"Then what do you want?" - they asked him.

"I want to see all the superfluous unemployed spinsters busy, happy
mothers, patriotically contributing to raise a splendid fighting-force,
for one thing, which will certainly be regarded as an utterly imbecile
idea by a magnificently rational world."

"And have you any theory about it?" asked Lord Denton.

"Nothing but the worn-out, commonplace, absurdly natural theories of
the vegetable and animal kingdoms.  My only chance is that, being so
ancient, and so absurdly natural, the modern world may mistake them for
something entirely new, and seize upon them with the fasionable avidity
for novelties."

"Or they may lock you up," suggested Quin.

"In any case I'm afraid you'll be too late," Hal commented, with a half
grave, half sarcastic air; "for before your theories can make any
headway, England is likely to have given all her life-blood to systems,
and restrictions, and cut-and-dried conventions, utterly regardless of
her need for a strong protecting force to maintain her existence at
all.  Taken in the aggregate, she never has bothered much about the
primary necessity for the best possible conditions for the mothers of
the future."

"What a learned sentence, Hal," put in Lorraine, looking amused.
"Quite worthy of a militant suffragette."

"The announced suffragettes are not the only ones who care for
England's future," she said.  "I suppose I care a good deal because I'm
in the newspaper world, and I know something of what she has to contend
against in the way of petty party spirit and the self-aggrandising of
some of her so-called leaders, who haven't an ounce of true patriotism,
and only want to shout something outrageous in a very loud voice, just
to attract public attention."

"I think Bruce is right up to a certain point," remarked Lord Denton.
"We can hardly contemplate the reinstitution of polygamy, but it
certainly ought to be the business of the State to see that every child
born into the country is given the best possible conditions in which to
become a good citizen and, if necessary, a good soldier."

"Isn't there a Poor Law for that express purpose?" asked Lorraine.

"Don't speak of it," commented Quin sadly.  "Our Poor Law, like so many
excellent institutions, is mostly run on a wrong basis.  Huge sums of
money are expended in procuring homes for homeless children, and the
last thing that seems to be considered is the suitability of the home.
Applications are accepted in a perfunctory, business-like way by
guardians and others - and perhaps an inspector takes a casual glance
round; but the moral aspect of the whole matter, as to character and
habits, is mostly left to chance.   We, who are on the spot, often have
to rescue children from the homes the State has provided for them."

"It is more supervision, then, that you want?" asked Lord Denton.

"It is a different sort of supervision altogether.  It ought to be
woman's work, not man's - women who are paid and encouraged and helped."

"But that might be defying some of the precious conventions," put in
Hal with a touch of scorn - "making women too important, don't you
know; and encouraging them to be something more than household
ornaments.  We can't have that, even for the sake of the future.  It
would be too alarming.  No; England will continue in her cast-iron rut
of prejudice, until most of her soul-power is dried up, and only the
husk of a great nation is left, to follow in the way of other husks."

"Then I will go to the new, young, strong nation, and watch her
splendid rise," quoth Dick.

"Traitor!" they threw at him, but he was quite imperturbed.  "Strength
and vigour are better than old traditions and an enfeebled race; and
sombebody, somewhere on the globe, had got to listen to what I am bound
to teach."

"You dear old Juggins," said Hal, "when England has passed her zenith,
and gone under to the new, strong race, you will be found sitting
meditating among cabbages and green peas, like Omar Khayym in his rose
garden.  The rest of us will have died in the fighting-line - except
Baby, and they will put him under a glass case, and preserve him as one
of the few fine specimens left of a decadent race - in spite of his
brainlessness."

"Are we a decadent race?" asked Lorraine thoughtfully.

"Only the House of Lords and a few leading Conservatives," said Lord
Denton with flippancy.  "The workingman who has the courage to refuse
to work, and the Liberal members who have the grit to demand salaries
for upsetting the Constitution, led by a few eminent Ministers who
delight to remove their neighbour's landmark, and relieve his pocket,
are the splendid fellows of the grand new opening era of prosperity and
greatness."

"Still," put in Quin hopefully, "it is very fashionable to go big-game
shooting nowadays, and an African lion may yet chew up a few of them."

"Poor lion!" quoth Lorraine; "but what a fine finale for the king of
beasts, to chew up the despoilers of kings.  Shall we go to the
drawing-room?"  And she rose to lead the way.

A Bridge table was arranged in an alcove for Hal and three of the men,
and Lorraine and Hermon sat over the fire for preference.  They were
far enough away from the players to be able to speak of them unheard,
and Hermon, in the course of their conversation, mentioned that he saw
something different in Hal to-night to what he had noticed before.

Lorraine thought she was only very lively, but Hermon looked doubtful.
He could not express what he seemed to see, but in some way her
liveliness held a new note.  He thought she had more tone and a new
kind of assurance, and he tried to explain it to Lorraine.

"I expect she's had a jolly afternoon," was all Lorraine said, with a
smile.  "She has been to the Zoo with Sir Edwin Crathie."

"Has she?" significantly, and Hermon raised his eyebrows.  "Are they
still friends, then?  I thought she only knew him slightly."

"Thas was at the beginning," and Lorraine glanced at him with the smile
deepening in her eyes.  "There always has to be a beginning - doesn't
there?"

But no answering smile shone in Alymer Hermon's face, rather a slight
shade of anxiety as he glanced across the room at Hal.  "I should not
like a sister of mine to have much to do with Sir Edwin Crathie," he
said gravely.

"Perhaps not, you dear old Solemn-acre," giving his arm a gentle pat;
"but a sister of yours would not have learned early to battle with the
world as Hal has."

"But surely if she is less protected than a sister of mine would have
been, there is the greater cause for caution."

"There is no comparision.  A sister of yours would always have known
protection, and always rely on it, and if it failed her she might find
herself in difficulties and dangers she hardly knew how to cope with.
Hal faced the difficulties and the dangers early, and learnt to be her
own defence and protector.  Some women have to, you see.  It is
necessary for them to wield weapons and armour out of their own
strength, and be prepared to be buffeted by a heartless world, and not
be afraid.  If you had a sister, you would want to keep her in
cotton-wool, and never let any rough, enlightening experience come near
her.  If I had a daughter, I should like her to have the enlightening
experience early, and learn to be strong and self-dependent like Hal;
then I shouldn't be afraid of her future."

She was silent a few moments, then added thoughtfully:  "I think it
would be better for society in general if the girls of the leisured
classes knew more about the world, and were better able to take car of
themselves; meaning, of course, with a pride like Hal's in going
straight because it's the game."

Hermon's eyes again strayed to Hal's pretty head, with its glossy brown
hair, and Lorraine continued after a pause:

"If I'm afraid of anything with Hal, it is that she might let herself
get to care for some one who isn't worth her little finger, or some one
who is out of her reach, or something generally impossible.  She
wouldn't care lightly; and she'd get dreadfully hurt."

"But surely she couldn't actually fall in love with a man like Edwin
Crathie?" he remonstrated.

"I wasn't thinking of Sir Edwin specially.  She goed about a great
deal, you know, and meets many people.  She has a strong vein of
romance too.  I always feel I shall be very glad when she is safely
anchored, if only it is to the right man."

They were interrupted then by the Bridge players, who had finished
their first rubber, and Lord Denton persuaded Hermon to change places
with him for a time, and came to sit over the fire with Lorraine.
Presently he too mentioned Hal.

"She is the best woman Bridge player I have ever met," he said.  "She
seems to be developing into something rather out of the ordinary.
Hasn't she grown much better-looking?"

Lorraine smiled, a slow, sweet smile.

"Alymer Hermon has just been praising Hal too," she said; "I like to
hear you men admire her; it shows you can appreciate sterling worth as
well - well - shall we call it daring impropriety?"

"You are a little severe."

"Am I?  Well, you see, I know a good many men pretty intimately; and I
have gleaned from various confiding moments that it is not the working
woman chiefly, relying only on her own protection, who strays into the
murky byways and muddy corners of life.  It is surprisingly often the
direction of the idle, home-guarded, bored young lady.  Flip, if it
came to a choice, I believe I would put my money on the worker.  It's
such a splendid, healthy, steadying thing to have a real purpose and a
real occupation; instead of just days and weeks of idle enjoyment.  And
as for temptations!  Well, they abound pretty fully in both cases; it
isn't the amount of temptation likely to be encountered that matters,
so much as the quality of the individual armour to meet it with."

"Still, when it comes to being hungry and cold and having no money?" he
argued.

"It doesn't make much difference in the long run, except that one hopes
The Man Above will surely find a wider forgiveness for the woman who
was hungry and cold than for the woman who was just bored, but hadn't
the grit to find an aim and purpose to renew and invigorate a
purposeless life.  All the same, I'd like to see Hal safely anchored to
a real good fellow.  Flip, if you could persuade her to try, she'd make
you a splendid wife."

"And what in the world should I do with a splendid wife?" laughing
frankly into her face - "what an appalling possession!  Lorry, old
girl, I've got a splendid woman pal, and that's good enough for me.  If
I ever want a wife you shall have the privilege of finding me one: but
it won't be until I am old and gouty, and then she had better be a
hospital nurse, inured to irritability."

"You are quite hopeless," shaking her head at him, "but I don't
particularly want to lose you as a friend, unless it is for Hal; so
we'll say no more."

"Sensible woman!  And now I must really be off.  I like your friends,
Lorry.  They're very fresh.  And of course Hermon is tremendous.  You
haven't overdrawn him at all.  Only to be careful.  Remember the burnt
child.  A man like that ought to be made to wear a mask and hideous
garments, for the protection of susceptible females."

"He would need to speak through a grating trumpet as well."

"Yes, I suppose he would.  Even I can hear the attraction in his voice.
 It will be splendid when he begins to feel his feet in the law courts.
 We'll make a celebrity of him, shall we - just for the interest of it.
 But it's to be only a hobby, Lorraine, no entanglements, mind" - and
he laughed his low, pleasant laught.

"Very well, call it a hobby, or what you like - only keep him in mind
now, Flip.  I've got him into an ambitious spirit that means
everything, if there is enough fuel at the beginning to keep it alight
until it is a glowing pile quite capable of burning gaily alone."

"Right you are.  I like him.  You fan the flame, and I'll rake up the
fuel.  I'll speak to Hodson about him to-morrow.  He's always ready to
lend a hand to a promising junior."

When they had all gone, Lorraine lingered a few moments by her fireside.

"A hobby!" she breathed; "yes, why not?  Man-making is almost equal to
man-bearing.  I have no son to spur up the Olympian heights; but what
might I not do for Alymer, if... if - "

She placed her hands on the mantelshelf, and leaned her forehead down
on them.

"Alymer," she whispered, a little brokenly, "I wonder if I ought to be
ready to give you all, and ask nothing?  Perhaps make you all the
splendid man you might be, just for some one else, and get nothing
myself but a heart-ache?"





CHAPTER XXV


The winter months passed more or less uneventfully and pleasantly.  The
case in which Hermon had held his first brief, though in only a very
secondary position, was rather splendidly won.  An unlooked-for
development in it roused public interest, and filled the Hall with
spectators.  Lord Denton went out of curiosity, and was present when
Hermon, as an unknown junior, made his first public appearance.

He was not the only man specially interested either; seniour councel on
both sides had its grandiloquent eye on the new-comer, so to speak -
interested to know how he would acquit himself.  Afterwards they
congratulated him very warmly, and Denton went to tell Lorraine he had
made a hit.

"He looked splendid," he declared enthusiastically; "and het was
delightfully calm and self-possessed.  He'll soon get another brief
now.  You see."

He did; and the future began to look very full of promise to this
favourite of fortune.

As Lorraine had predicted, his growing success filled his mind, and
kept him safe from many pitfalls; while her sympathetic companionship
satisfied him in other respects, and formed a substantial bulwark
between him and the women who would have tried to spoil him.

He had other women friends as well, but Lorraine felt they were not
dangerous, by the way he talked of them.  As long as he did not get
foolishly engaged, and cripple his career at the very outset, as he
easily might while he had no income to rely on, she did not fear.  Lord
Denton advised her to marry him to an heiress as soon as possible, but
Lorraine knew better than to risk an impeding millstone of gold, and
insisted he must just win his way through on the allowance his father
gave him.

In the meantime they were a great deal together, and though they seldom
went to any public place alone, they occasionally broke their rule; and
it was known, at any rate in theatrical circles, that Lorraine rarely
went out with her own old set, and had grown reserved and quiet.  Hal
knew something of the absorbing friendship, but she still made light of
it, and sparred with Hermon whenever she saw him - "for his good."

As a matter of fact, she did not go quite so much to Lorraine's as
usual herself; for many of the hours she had been accustomed to spend
there she now spent with Sir Edwin Crathie.  All through the winter
they continued to take motor rides into the country; and often they
went together to a quiet, unfashionable golf club, where they were both
learning to overcome the intricacies and trials of that absorbing
pastime.

It was easy for Sir Edwin to silence curious tongues.  He spoke of her
quite frankly as his niece, and Hal more or less acquiesced, because it
was simpler to arrange an afternoon's golf, for Dudley had managed to
become very thoroughly absorbed in Doris, and she aksed no questions.

The only two to raise any real objections were Dick and Alymer Hermon.
Dick had to be talked round, and thoroughly impressed with Sir Edwin's
great age (of forty-eight), and though Hal did not state the actual
years, she was perfectly correct in insisting that he was old enough to
be her father; though she need not perhaps have said it in quite such a
tone of ridiculing an absurd idea.

Anyhow, Dick was pacified up to a certain point, and obliged to see
that the new friendship did her good, keeping her cheerful and hopeful
in spite of her bitter disappointment about Dudley's engagement, and
generally brightening the whole of the winter routine for her.

With Hermon it was rather different.  Ha was less cosmopolitan than
Dick, and he insistently adhered to his first idea concerning what he
would have felt had Hal been his sister.

Why she should have been specially interested did not occur to him.
Dick, of course, actually was a sort of brother, being much more so in
a sense than many real brothers, as far as personal interest and
protection went.

When Has was first left an orphan she had been a great deal with him,
at his own home, and they had always been special friends both then and
since.

But Hermon was in no sense either a brother or a special friend.  They
had never done anything else but spar, howerver good-naturedly; and
Lorraine, in consequence,  twitted him once or twice about looking
grave over Hal's doings.

And Hermon had laughed, and coloured a little, saying something about a
feeling at the flat that they all had a sort of right in Hal, and he
didn't see what that brute, Crathie - a Liberal  into the bargain -
wanted to be taking her about for.

He even went so far as to say something to Hal herself about it; one
day, when they were alone in Lorraine's drawing-room, waiting for her
to come in, Hal had just told him frankly she had played golf with Sir
Edwin the previous day; and in a sudden burst of indignation Hermon
exclaimed:

"I can't think how you can be so friendly with the man.  Surely you
know what he is?  He has about as much principle as my foot."

Hal had turned round and stared at him in blank astonishment.

"Goodness gracious!" she exclaimed, "what an outburst!  What has Sir
Edwin done to hurt you?"

But he stood his ground steadily.

"You know it isn't that.  If you were my sister, I wouldn't let you go
out with him as you do."

"Then what a comfort for me, I'm not.  And really, Baby dear!  I'm much
more adapted to be your mother."

"Rot!"

He looked at her almost fiercely for a moment,  scarcely aware of it
himself, buth with a sudden, swift, unaccountable resentment of the old
joke.  Hal, surprised again, backed away a little, eyeing him with a
quizzical, roguish expression that made him want desperately to shake
her.

"Grandpapa," she murmured, with a mock, apologetic air, "you really
mustn't get so worked up at - at your advanced years."

His face relaxed suddenly into laughter.

'I don't know whether I want to shake you or kiss you... you... you - "

"Thanks, I'll take the shake," she interrupted promptly.   "I certainly
haven't deserved such severe punishment as a kiss."

He took a step towards her, but she stood quite still and laughed in
his face; and he could only turn away, laughing himself.

Yet he was conscious that her attitude riled him.  He was not in the
least vain, but all the same it was absurd that Hal should persist in
being the one woman who was not only utterly indifferent to his
attractions, but seemed almost to scorn him for them.  In some of the
others it would not have mattered in the least - at any rate he thought
so - but in Hal it was sheer nonsense.

He liked her better than any one, except perhaps Lorraine, and he
always enjoyed their sparring; but of course there was a limit, and she
really might be seriously friendly sometimes; and anyhow he hated Sir
Edwin Crathie.

While he thought all this more or less vaguely, Hal watched him with
undisguised amusement.

"Don't think so hard," she said; "it spoils the line of your profile."

"Hang my profile!" he exclaimed, almost crossly.  "Can't you be serious
for five minutes, you're always so - so - "

"Not at all.  I'm perfectly serious.  A frown doesn't suit you one
little bit.  Imagine a scowl on one of Raphael's cherubim."

"I don't want to imagine anything so silly, and I'm not in the least
like a cherub.  It would be more sensible if you want to do some wise
imagining, to think of Sir Edwin Crathie, and imagine yourself in the
devil's clutches."

"But I've not the smallest wish to be in Sir Edwin's clutches, so why
should I try to imagine it?...  and  you're not at all polite, are you?"

"I'm honest anyway; and I'll warrant that's more than he can rise to."

"But really, dear Alymer," reverting again to the mocking tone, "at
what period of your friendship with him have you had occasion to find
him out?"

"Your sarcasm won't frighten me.  A man knows more about this sort of
thing than a girl.  Of course he is all right in an ordinary way, but
you are so often with him...  Considering his political career, it is
positively unpatriotic of you to be such close friends."

"Such nonsense!  Do you want me to be as bigoted and narrow-minded as
those Conservatives who are continually holding the party back, because
they are quite incapable of realising there are two sides to a
question?  I don't hold the same views as Sir Edwin at all.  I'm not
likely to, being on the staff of the _Morning Mail_; but that isn't any
reason why I should object to him as a friend."

"No; but his reputation might be."

Hal stamped her foot.

"Oh, don't stand there and talk about a man's reputation in that
superior, self-satisfied fashion.  What is it to you anyhow?  My
friendship can't possibly be any concern of yours."

She moved away with a restless, ruffled manner, and threw back at him:

"Of course I'm awfully grateful to you for being so interested in my
welfare, but your concern is a little misplaced.  I am quite capable of
taking care of myself, and have been for at least seven years."

He looked hurt, and about to retort, but at that moment Lorraine's
latch-key sounded in the door, and Hal went out into the hall to meet
her.

"I'm so glad you've come," she remarked, as they re-entered together.
"Baby is in one of his insufferable, superior moods, and is lecturing
me on my friendship with Sir Edwin.  And all because I casually
mentioned I had had a game of golf with him."

Lorraine looked a little surprised, but she only remarked laughingly:

"It's a little fad of his to lecture.  I rather like it; but I wonder
he had the temerity to lecture you."

"Unfortunately, lecturing doesn't instil common sense," put in Hermon,
"and it only requires common sense to understand Sir Edwin Crathie
isn't very likely to prove a satisfactory friend."

"You mean it only requires dense, narrow-minded self-satisfaction.
Really, Baby, if you are so good to look at, there is surely a limit
even to your permissible airs and graces"; and Hal tossed her head.

"Now come, you two," interposed Lorraine; "I don't want quarreling over
my tea.  Give her some of that sticky pink-and-white cake, Alymer, and
have some yourself, and you will soon both grow amiable again."

"He hasn't got his bibliotheek," Hal snapped, "and he knows his mother
told him he was to have bread-and-butter first.  You are not to spoil
him, Lorry.  Spoilt children are odious."

"So are conceited women," he retorted.  "It's only that new hat that is
making you so pleased with yourself."

"It's a dear hat," she commented.  "You have to pin a curl on with it,
else there's a gap.  I'm in mortal dread I shall lose the curl, or find
it hanging down my back."

No more was said on the subject of Sir Edwin, but when Hal was about to
leave, and found that Hermon was staying on, she pursed up her lips
with an air of sanctimonious disapproval and said:

"I don't want to hurt any one's feelings, but I'm not at all sure _Mr._
Hermont is quite a nice friend for you, Lorraine.  His conversation is
neither elevating nor improving, and I hardly like to go off now and
leave you alone with him."

"Don't worry," Lorraine laughed.  "He is improving every day under my
tuition.  I hope you can say as much for Sir Edwin."

"I can," she answered frankly.  "He has learnt quite a lot since I took
him in hand; especially about women and the vote.  He has positively
made the discovery that they don't all want it just for notoriety, and
novelty; but I'm afraid he won't succeed in convincing the other dense
old gentlemen in the Cabinet.  Good-bye!"

"Be circumspect, O Youth and Beauty.  And don't let him over-eat
himself, Lorry," she finished, as she departed.





CHAPTER XXVI


When Hermon was finding fault with Hal's friendship for Sir Edwin
Crathie, it had not apparently occured to him that his own friends and
relations were likely enough to take precisely the same view of his
friendship with Lorraine Vivian.  He did not want to think it, any more
than Hal had done, and therefore he conveniently ignored the
probability, and indulged in the reflection that any how they were
never likely to hear of it.

Yet it was through them, and their ill-chosen mode of interference,
that the first trouble arose, when that quiet, peaceful winter was
over, and the spring arrived with renewing and vigour, and with new
happenings in other beside the natural world.

It was as though the one gladsome winter of pleasant companionship and
firesides was given to them all - Dudley and Hal, Ethel and Basil,
Lorraine and Hermon - before the wider issues of the future stepped in
and claimed their toll of sorrow before they gave the deeper joys.

Alymer Hermon's father and mother were at this time living in a
charming house at Sevenoaks, whither he went at least once a week to
see them.

His father had become more or less of a recluse, enjoying a quiet old
age with his books; but his mother was an energetic, bigoted lady of
the old school, who had allowed much natural kindliness to become
absorbed in her devotion to church precepts and church works.

When it first reached her ears that her only son, of boundless hopes
and dreams, was continually with the actress Lorraine Vivian, she was
horrified beyond words.

Undoubtedly the story had been much magnified and embroidered, and
accepted as a scandalous liaison or entanglement without any inquiry.
To make matters worse, Mrs. Hermon belonged so thouroughly to the old
school that she could not even distinguish between a clever celebrated
actress and a chorus girl.

The stage, to her, was a synonym which included all things theatrical
in one comprehensive ban of immorality and vice, with degrees, of
course, but in no case without deserving censure from the eminently
respectable, well-born British matron.  She could not have been more
upset had the heroine of the story been the under housemaid; and indeed
she placed actressess and housemaids in much the same category.

Of course the friendship must be stopped, and stopped instantly.  What
a mercy of mercies she had discovered it so soon, and that now it might
be nipped in the bud.  Just at the very outset of his career, too,
which had so astonishingly developed of late, and caused her such proud
delight.

That that surprising development, both in the career and the beloved
son, might have anything to do with this dreadful entanglement was not
to be thought of for a moment; and when Alymer's father ventured to
suggest thoughtfully and a little wonderingly that the friendship had
certainly not harmed the boy, she turned on him with bitterness, ending
up with the dictum that men were all alike when there was a woman in
the case, and could not possibly form an unbiassed opinion.

After which, she went off to church to a week-day service, partly to
pray for guidance in a matter in which she had already firmly decided
what line to take, and partly to unburden her mind to her pet
clergyman.  Of course she must speak to Alymer that very evening.  How
fortunate that it was one of the nights he almost always came to
Sevenoaks.

If only he had lived at home it would never have happened.  It was all
that hateful little flat where he lived with Bruce and St. Quintin.
She ought never to have given way so easily.  If his father had docked
his allowance, in order to compel him to live at home, he would soon
have got used to the daily train journey, and it would have been far
better for him.

Now, of course, he was not likely to hear of it; and since he was
making such good headway in his profession, it certainly did seem a
pity to risk upsetting him.  But no doubt a little quiet talk would
convince him of the unwisdom of allowing his name to be associated with
an actress just now; and once more she congratulated herself that she
had heard in time.

The Rev. Hetherington listended to her story with all the sympathetic
horror she could wish, and she felt buoyed up in her adamantine
decision, although she still harped on the intention of praying for
guidance.

The Rev. Hetherington, of morbid and woeful countenance, was one who
looked across a world glorious with spring sunshine, as if he saw
nothing but the earwigs, and black-beetles, and creepy, crawly things
of existence, and he promised readily to pray also: and perhaps God
smiled the smile He keeps for the good people who so often ask to be
guided by His Will, when they have long before decided exactly what
that Will shall be.

The pastor accompanied his parishioner to her door, walking slowly with
her through a garden bursting into a joyous splendour of crocuses, and
snowdrops, and promise of laughing daffodils in warm corners; and
together they lamented the terrible temptations of wicked sirens that
beset the paths of splendid young men in the world.

"Not that he isn't a good, affectionate son," she finished, "but he has
always been made so much of - which is not in the least surprising, and
no doubt he has grown lax.  Still, he might have remembered how proud a
name he bore, and, at least, have drawn the line at a frivolous,
painted actress.  His father says she is very clever and quite well
known, but even he cannot deny she probably paints her face; and surely
that is enough to show what her mind is!  How Alymer could endure it, I
don't know.  He has been used to such perfect ladies all his life, and
the mere sight of paint should disgust him."

"Of course, of course," murmured the mournful parson, who had great
hopes of a big subscription for his Young Women's Bible Class, and was
in two minds as to whether to regard the present moment as auspicious,
and introduce the need of educating all young women in high and holy
thoughts; or whether it was wiser to wait until his companion were in a
less perturbed frame of mind.

And the crocuses nodded and laughed, holding up their little yellow
staves gaily to the sunshine, and shouting to each other that it was
spring,  clamouring to make the most of their great day, before the
flowers came in battalions to crowd them out of sight and mind.

And the gentle little snowdrops whispered secrets to each other, which
only themselves could hear, about warmth and sunshine and the beauty of
the new spring world - too old in the wisdom of nature to pay any heed
to the two humans who would rather have had a world all maxims and
rules, and rigid straight lines from which no gladsome young hearts
ever strayed.

Finally the mournful clergyman went away without asking for his
subscription, having made mental decision that there would be far more
trouble to come over the painted woman, and yet more propitious
occasion was likely to arise.

And Alymer's mother went into the house with set, severe lips; and
pulled down all the blinds that were letting in sunlight, for fear some
of the carpets got spoiled.

She did not, however, venture into the library, where her husband sat
in a large bow window reading, with sunlight flooding all round him,
and sunshine in his quiet eyes, and the sunshine of a great man's
thoughts filling his mind.

He was too much of a philosopher to worry about his son, and, moreover
he knew Alymer well, and had great faith in his good sense; but he
realised a mother would take fright more quickly, and that it was as
well to let her have her talk with the boy, and comfort herself with
the belief that she had saved him.  As long as she did not shut out his
library sunlight, nor bring her pet clergyman into his sanctum, he
found it easy to balance her sterling companionable qualities against
certain others of a trying nature, and go serenely on his philosophical
way.

Undoubtedly Alymer was a well-selected mixture of both parents.  To his
mother he owed his fine features and his power of resolve when he chose
to exert it; and to his father his splendid stature, his quiet little
humours, and the old-fashioned, courtly protectiveness that had so
quickly won Lorraine's heart.

Yet it was a mixture that might have borne no practical results if left
to itself, but rather a retarding.

As Lorraine had so clearly seen, the spur of ambition, and a resolute
determination to succeed in other walks than that of the casual,
charming, petted favourite of fortune, were indispensable to bring his
traits into a harmony with each other that would achieve.

It was to this end that she had given him of her best encouragement and
help; too old and too wise not to have seen that whatever her own
personal feelings towards him, it was extremely probable that she had
helped him towards realising his highest promise, for some one else to
reap the deepest joy of it.

Well, at any rate she had had the interest and the companionship, and
these had not been small things.  He had come into her life just when
it was wearying of triumph and adulation; when lovely frocks and
jewels, and hosts of admirers - the very things she had craved for a
few years earlier - had commenced to pall in the light of the little
real satisfaction to be won from them.  With some women perhaps they
never palled.  Perhaps each fresh conquest renewed them, and each fresh
triumph invigorated.

In Lorraine's complex character, the love of success was blended with a
love of the deeper and richer things of life.  She was of those to
whom, at times, wide spaces, and fresh breezes, and the big, sweeping,
elemental things call loudly, above the noise of the world of fashion;
and she knew what it was to be filled with an aching  nausea of all she
had practically sold her soul to win, and a yearning _nostalgia_ for
something that might satisfy the finer instincts of her nature.

And in a measure her interest in Hermon had filled the void.  Whatever
her feeling had been in the beginning, it had undoubtedly merged now
into a definite purpose for his good, from which she meant to eliminate
- if the time came when he wanted to be free of her - any claim her
heart might clamour to assert.

Her dealings with him were, for the time being, on a par with the
generous unselfishness she had shown towards her mother.  For both of
them she found the courage and resolution to thrust herself in the
background and give of her best as the hour required.

If the friendship had been permitted to develop quietly along these
lines, a future day might have witnessed Lorraine quite naturally
outgrowing her infatuation, and happily satisfied with the result of
her unwearying interest and effort; while Hermon, from his proud
pinnacle of success, would still have felt her his best friend.

But at the critical moment the blundering, disturbing hand was
permitted to jar the harmony of the strings and spoil the melody.  To
what end?... who knows?...  Perhaps to some unseen, mysterious
widening, and deepening, and learning necessary to the onward march of
Humanity towards its goal of Perfection.





CHAPTER XXVII


Alymer knew directly he entered the house, and saw his mother, that
something had upset her, but he did not associate it with Lorraine, and
kissed her with his usual warm affection.

It was not until after dinner, when they were alone in the
drawing-room, that the subject was broached, and then, with very little
preliminary, Mrs. Hermon - bending Divine Guidance to her own will -
made a merciless attack on "the painted woman."

It was no doubt the most unwise course of action conceivable; but Mrs.
Hermon, with her quiet and philosophical husband, and her only son, had
led a sheltered, smoothly flowing married life, after a yet more
sheltered girlhood, far removed from the passionate upheavals of
society, and she had neither practical worldly knowledge nor experience
to aid her.

She told him the story that had reached her ears through the jealousy
of a sister, whose only son was very plain, and a scapegrace, and who
had been fiendishly glad to have an opportunity to cast a slur upon the
doings of the successful, handsome, steady young barrister.

"Douglas says he is always with her," had been her sister's conclusion
- "and that every one is talking about it, and there is a dreadful lot
of scandal.  I thought it was only kind to tell you, as if he goes on
in the same way he will certainly ruin his career."

Then had come the parting shot.

"We all think so much of Alymer, that I would not believe such a story
of him without proof.  Douglas said he usualy went to her flat in
Chelsea about five, when he leaves Chambers, and I went twice to see if
he came; and on each occasion he strode along, and swung into the
building almost as if he lived there."

Mrs. Hermon did not at first tell her son the source of her
information, and he did not ask her.  Neither, somewhat to her
surprise, did he attempt to exculpate himself, nor to make any denial.

He stood up on the hearth with that straight, strong look he had, when
all his faculties were acute, and heard her through to the end.  Then
she said in a hurt voice:  " You don't deny it, Alymer.  I have been
hoping you went to the flat on business, and there was some mistake."

"I deny everything that you have implied against Miss Vivian.  The
story of the friendship is true."

His quiet self-possession seemed to disconcert her a little.  She was
prepared for indignant denial, or angry remonstrance even; but this
calm self-possession was something almost new to her.  True, he had
always been calm and philosophical, like his father; but this was
something deeper and stronger than she had yet known in him.

"The fact is, mother," he went on after a pause, "you have run away
with a totally wrong idea of Miss Vivian.    If she were the sort of
actress you picture, you might perhaps be anxious; but all the same I
think you might have given me credit for rather better taste."

"My dear, an actress is an actress - and every one knows what that is;
and the mere fact of her calling, or whatever you like to name it, is
sufficient to seriously hurt your position."

He smiled a little.

"I dispute the dictum that every one knows whant an actress is, in the
sweeping sense you mean.  I do not think you know, for one.  I shall
have to try and persuade Miss Vivian to come and see you."

"Indeed I hope you will do no such thing."

Again he smiled.

"In any case I should not succeed.  She is very proud, and would resent
patronage even more than you."

Mrs. Hermon gave a significant sniff of incredulity, but she only said:

"Well, Alymer dear, you will give me a promise not to see her any more
- won't you?"

"I can't do that, mother."

"Why not?"

"It is out of the question.  For one thing, I owe too much to Miss
Vivian; and for another, I am too fond of her."

"All the more reason you should try to break off the friendship at
once, before she has succeeded in any of her schemes to entangle you."

"She has no schemes to entangle me, as you put it.  She has been a
splendid friend.  I owe my first brief to her, and a good deal else
beside."

"Well, and no doubt you have already given her a good deal in return.
Quite as much as she deserves.  There is no necessity for you to truin
your whole career, just because she happens to like being seen out with
you."

There was a silence, in which Alymer seemed to be cogitating how best
to disarm his mother's fears; and also to be reminding himself of her
natural ignorance on theatrical matters, and his own need to be patient
therefore.  At last he said quietly:

"Miss Vivian only wants to help me in my profession; and I can only
tell you again she has been a splendid friend to me.  Aunt Edith has
told you a great deal of nonsense.  She has always been glad to pick
holes in me if she could.    Most of it is lies, and you must take my
word for it.  It is useless to discus the matter.  I am sorry you have
been so worried, but I don't know how to make you understand."

"I understand far better than you think; and I know you ought to end
the friendship at once.  I want you to do so."

"It is out of the question.  But you need not worry.  You must just
forget.  No..." as she attempted further remonstrance; "don't go on.  I
cannot listen to any more against Miss Vivian.  I think I will go and
smoke a pipe with the pater.  Shall you come and sit with us?"  And a
certain expression in his eyes that reminded her of his father in his
most decisive moods told her he meant to say no more.  She rose at once.

She had failed, and she knew it, but she had not the smallest intention
of giving in.  She had started on the wrong tack, that was all.  Of
course the boy was too chivalrous to go back on a friend, particularly
as he believed he was under some obligation to her.  Her plan of
mercilessly tearing the lady to pieces had not been a good one, but she
would think of something else, and save him in spite of himself.

And comforting herself with this reflection, she allowed the subject to
drop, and went with him to the library.  Her next plan should be a more
sure one.  She would work in secret with an agent to help her, who
could see the enormity of the danger, and appreciate more thoroughly
than his father the urgent need to interfere.    She had already a
vague plan in her head that she believed an excellent one, and which
she could put into execution immediately.

It was an old-fashioned, time-worn plan, but Mrs. Hermon was a woman of
old-fashioned ideas, and she did not know but that she was the
originator.  She had not the least idea that quite the commonplace
course of action in these questions was to send a secret emissary to
the lady, to reason with her, or plead with her, or bribe her,
according to her status, on behalf of the innocent young victim of her
charms.  The great thing, she imagined, was to find a suitable agent.

Now, besides the sister who was jealous, she had a bachelor brother of
a certain well-known stamp.  A good-looking, aristocratic,
well-preserved man of independent means;  and though over sixty years
of age, still a gallant, with not much in his handsome head beyond a
pathetic desire to continue to captivate, and a belief that he was as
invincible as ever.

Very shady stories had more than once been written down to his account,
but he had the wit always to rise above them and sail serenely on to do
more mischief.

His sister rightly surmised that he would have considerable knowledge
concerning actressess and the theatrical world, and without troubling
to consult her husband, she took him into her confidence and unburdened
all her trouble.

"Phew!" murmured the elderly beau, "so the young scamp has got
entangled with an actress, has he?  Shocking!... shocking!...  But
don't worry, Ailsa; we'll soon square the lady one way or another.  Do
you - er - happen to know if she is of the nature one can offer money
to?"

"I think not.  Alymer insists she is a lady in the real sense; though,
if so, why did she go on the stage?"

"Love of excitement, I dare say.  Is she, by any chance, a chorus girl?"

"No, not exactly; though really I fail to see any difference in degree
between one actress and another.  They are all on the stage; and no
doubt they all paint their faces and snare good-looking young men."

"No doubt," agreed the man, who had more than once made it his business
to snare an unsuspecting, trusting girl.

"And you will go to see her, and persuade her to drop him; won't you,
Percy?  It is no use talking to his father; he does not see the matter
in a serious enough light.  He believes Alymer will soon tire of her.
So he may, but in the meantime she may irredeemably injure his career.
Of course, if it is a question of money we will find it all right; but
whatever it is, try to cut the whole matter off entirely.  Make love to
her yourself, Percy, if that is what she wants - you know you have
always been rather good at that sort of thing"; and she smiled at her
own astonishing wordly wisdom, feeling almost rakish at having framed
such a sentence.

"Ah!" with a deprecatory shake of his head, that did not, however, hide
a certain fitful gleam in his eyes, "I am getting too old for those
kinds of pranks now, but I will do my best to - er - "  For a moment he
wondered whether he meant to do his best to make love to the actress
himself, or try to rescue Alymer, and finally finished: "follow out
your wishes and suggestions."

"I knew you would, Percy.  It was a good idea of mine to ask you.
Don't mince matters at all, will you?  Make her thoroughly understand
she has got to give him up under any circumstances, or we shall, well -
er - take proceedings if it is possible.  Anyhow, Alymer must be
guarded against himself, and his father is too unpractical to help, so
we must do it alone."

"I quite agree.  Alymer is an exceptionally fine fellow, with an
exceptionally promising future; and if he cannot see for himself how
foolish a scandal would be just at the outset, we must, as you say,
save him on our own account.  I am fond of Alymer, very fond, and very
proud, and I will do all in my power over the matter.  What is the
actress's name, did you say?"

"I don't think I mentioned it; but Edith told me in her letter.  I will
look for it."

She went to a writing-table, and returned with the epistle in her hand,
glancing through it until she came to the required information, when,
without looking up, she read, "Lorraine Vivian."

At the same time a sudden, curious, startled expression crossed the
faded eyes of the white-haired gallant, and he turned quicly aside,
stroking  his moustache with a slightly nervous air.

"Eh?  Do you mean the well-known celebrity?" he asked.  "Surely not
Miss Vivian of the Queen's Theatre?"

"I suppose so.  I never go to the theatre, so I never hear these names.
 Edith certainly writes as if she were well known.  Does it makes any
difference?"  she asked, as he was silent.  "Don't you want to go?  If
you don't I must find some one else; that is all."

"But certainly I will go.  I was only a little surprised.  She must be
a good deal older than Alymer."

"That only makes it worse.  No doubt she is no longer pretty enough for
older men, so she has to set her cap at young ones, who are flattered
by her attention.  I certainly thought Alymer had more sense - but
there - one never knows, and these women are very clever, I believe."

"D - d - I mean - extraordinarily clever; but we can be clever too, and
I dare say we can contrive to outwit her."

A little later he went away to catch a train back to town, leaving his
sister reassured and hopeful; but as he went he repeated to himself in
a low, incredulous voice:  "Lorraine Vivian...  Lorraine Vivian...  How
strange that I should be asked to undertake a mission that will cause
us to meet again.  I wonder if you will recognise me quickly?  I
flatter myself, even white hair has not destroyed my claims to a
woman's favour."





CHAPTER XXVIII


Lorraine had not the smallest idea of what was coming upon her.  She
knew perfectly well herself that it would be most unwise for a rising
young barrister to get talked about with an actress known to have a
husband living, and it had made her a great deal more cautious than she
would otherwise have bothered to be.

Moreover, Alymer, seeing nothing to gain by making known his mother's
fears, preferred not to annoy her with any account of them.  To say
that he was wholly unaffected by it, however, would be to say too much.
 He was, indeed, exceedingly and bitterly annoyed with his interfering
aunt, who had obviously tried to make trouble for some petty motive of
jealousy.   He only hoped that his mother would take her line from him
and his father, and maintain a dignified front, unmoved by his aunt's
tale-bearing gossip.

He was slightly affected in another way also.  It was almost the first
time he had seriously considered what the world might say if their
great friendship was known.  He knew it well enough to believe it would
be in haste to put the worst construction on it, though their own
immediate friends might stand by them loyally.

It caused him to consider that construction in a light he had hitherto
been protected from by circumstances, for it thrust forward an aspect
they had successfully kept in the background.  It made him ask the
question, What was he prepared to do if his aunt continued her
persecution, and some sort of change had to be made in the friendly,
delightful intercourse?

He wondered a good deal what Lorraine's own attitude would be.  Would
she, perhaps, now that she had given him his start, cut all the
friendship off for his good, and return to her old friends and
admirers?  He shrank from the contemplation of such a solution
undisguisedly, and meant to continue their pleasant relations if
possible.

He certainly wished no change whatever, if it could be avoided.
Lorraine meant everything to him just then, and he could not but know
how much his companionship and affection had come to mean to her.

So the next day he paid his customary visit, and talked as usual of
many things, but said no word of what had passed the previous night.

Lorraine's room was full of violets and snowdrops, cushions of them on
every side, in lovely array.  He moved about looking at them, and she
watched him from a low chair by the fire, clad in some new spring gown
of an exquisite mauve shade, that seemed to tone with the
violet-bedecked room.

It gave her dark eyes something of a violet tint, and her hands looked
as white and delicate as the snowdrops.  Moving about from mass of
blossoms, Alymer, glancing at her, thought she looked younger and
lovelier than ever.

"You have a spring air about you," he said, "and all the room seems
full of spring.  There is something about it all I like better than the
lilies and roses and malmaisons usually making a display."

"I sent them all to the dining-room," she told him.  "Every spring is
such a beautiful new thing, it has to be allowed to reign supreme for a
little while in here.  It gives me rather an ache to see them, all the
same" - after a pause - "they make me dream of the smell of the new
woodland, that delicious, damp, earthy smell of spring, and all the
young, joyful bursting of buds and springing of seeds and the mating
birds, and the showers that make the leaves glisten.  I feel as if I
should like to tramp out across the country in such a shower, and get
healthily wet, and be a real bit of the spring for just one week."

"Why don't you go?  You are not looking very well, and the country air
would probably do you no end of good."

"I don't want to go alone, and I do not know who I could take.  Hal is
not able to leave, and mother would merely be bored to tears, and Flip
Denton is at Monte Carlo.  There is no one really but you and Hal and
Flip who would fit in with my spring mood.  Any one else would strike a
discordant note."

"I wish I could come."

The wish escaped him almost involuntarily, as, with the sight of the
spring flowers and the spring scent in his nostrils, he too felt the
call of the fresh, wild, vigorous things in his blood.

Lorraine looked at him with a curious expression on her face.  Why, she
wondered, did he not seriously contemplate coming?  Why did he so
steadily pursue, as far as she was concerned, his serene and
passionless path?  She believed he cared more for her than for any one
else; and, if so, was it possible the ache sometimes in her heart for a
closer bond and resolutely strangled, had no counterpart in his hot,
vigorous youth?

Then he looked suddenly into her eyes, as if to see whether she had
heard his wish, and what she thought of it.  And as their gaze met, she
saw the blood mantle to his face, and a half-shamed expression creep
into it, as if he had been discovered in a thought that should never
have been permitted.

He looked away again to the flowers, and Lorraine turned her eyes to
the fire, with a swift wonder in her mind.  She felt that something had
transpired since they last parted - something she did not know of, and
that was entirely different to anything that had crossed their path
before.  Some new thought had been put into his mind.  Something that
made him give her that half-shy, half-wondering look.

She gazed hard at the fire, and her pulses began to beat a little
fitfully.  She knew instinctively that something had come suddenly into
being between them, which neither might name, and which was the oldest
thing in the world.

And then across her mind, as once before, swept with swift pitilessness
a vision of what might have been; of what life might have held for her
had she been among the blessed - an aching, tearing longing for a
youthful hour she had irretrievably missed.  She drew her hand across
her eyes, ignoring his presence, shutting him out, seeing only the
heavenly joy she had missed.

Supposing such a moment had come to her with such a man, when she, like
him, was in the first flush of youth and beauty; of dreams and hopes,
and rich believing.  What a knight for a lovely maid!  What a lover to
dream of bashfully and fearfully; and with all her soul one thought of
him.

From her vantage ground of much doing and much knowing, she looked back
yearningly to the bloom and springtide of life, when all splendid
things are possible, and any day may bring the splendid knight.

And instead had come... ah, what?

Well!  For her it had been the wolf in sheep's clothing, who, beside
all he had robbed her of, had taken all her chance of the one great
awakening to blinding joy.  Now she could only look upon the joy from
afar, seeing a barrier of fateful years, and, like a drawn sword at the
gate of her dream, the stern, unyielding decree that has echoed
unchanged down the long centuries: "Thou shalt not - "

Alymer was silent too, standing with the thoughtful expression on his
face that was so attractive, probing a little nervously into that wish
he had expressed, and wondering a little uncertainly just what it meant.

Then Lorraine got up.

"You are grave, _mon ami_; and it is the springtime.  Grave thoughts
are for the autumn of life - recklessness better becomes the joyful
spring."

"Are you ever reckless nowadays?" he asked, watching her graceful
movements as she bent down and buried her face in a cushion of violets.

"I am when I smell violets.  They may be modest and retiring little
flowers, but they hold spring rapture and spring lavishness and spring
desiring in their scent all the same."

"Then you are reckless now?"

What was it made him dally thus upon dangerous ground?  What was it
made him speak to Lorraine as he had never spoken before, on the very
day after his mother's  admonition?  Why did his immense height and
strength and the young vigour in his blood suddenly blot out the years
that lay between them, and sweep into his soul, the knowledge of his
masculinity and might, which of its own nature possessively dominated
her femininity?

They seemed all at once to have strayed into an atmosphere, born of
that warning admonition, and of their talk, of the reckless, creative
spring; and because, in spite of his youth, he was very much a man, and
she was a dangerously attractive woman, his pulses leapt fitfully and
eagerly with the swift ache that has existed ever since God made man
and woman.

Without looking up, Lorraine felt this.  The very air about them seemed
charged with it, and she too, under some spell of springtime, moved
into closer proximity to the splendid knight.  She brushed against his
arm unconsciously; and looking down on the top of her dark head, he
said half-shyly:

"You somehow seem such a little thing to-day, Lorraine, I feel as if I
could pick you up, as one does a small child."

"Please don't," with a low laugh - "just think of my dignity."

"But you are not dignified to-day.  You seem as young and light-hearted
as the springtime.  I feel as if I must be years older than you."

She raised her face suddenly, with yearning eyes:

"Oh, let us emulate the spring this once - let us both be young and
foolish and real, and pretend there isn't any one else in the world."

Fore one second he looked at her with wondering incredulity, then, with
a tender little laugh he suddenly bent down and folded his arms round
her till she seemed to vanish altogether into his embrace, and kissed
her on the lips.

"The scent of violets has intoxicated us," he said, and kissed her
again.

Then he gently pushed her into her big, deep chair.

"I'm going now.  I only ran in to see how you were after that bad
headache.  You must bring the lilies and malmaisons back to-morrow, or
I shall be offending so grievously you will forbid me the flat.
Good-bye!"  And without another word he went away out of the room.

Lorraine sat quite still, and let the spell wrap her round for the
precious moments that she could yet hold it.  Of course it could not
stay.  In an hour at most she would be her old, brain-weary self again,
with the best of her youth behind her; while he was still there on the
treshold, young and strong and free.  But even this one short hour was
good.  Life had not given her many such.  She would fence it round with
silence, and solitude, and the scent of violets.

Alymer went out into the streets wondering at himself vaguely, and yet
with a pleasant glow of memory.  He felt it bewildering that Lorraine
Vivian, whose favours were so eagerly sought by men, should have
allowed him to kiss her.

It seemed something apart altogether from her generous friendship and
helpful influence.  It made him pleased with himself, and filled his
mind with a yet greater tenderness to her.  He knew so much now of her
early difficulties and following troubles - of the frivolous,
unprincipled mother, and the long, uphill fight.  She had honoured him
with her confidence in spite of his youth, and now -

He quickened his steps, and his pulses leapt yet more fitfully.  Spring
was in the air and in his blood, and one of the recognised beauties of
London had been gracious to him beyond all dreaming.

It was enough for the present hour.  Why ask any inconvenient questions
and spoil it all?  Let the future look after itself.

Only one thought for a moment cast a little shadow upon his ardour.  It
crossed his mind, for no accountable reason, to wonder what Hal would
think.  He was a little afraid she would strongly disapprove.

But, after all, if she did, what matter?  He owed nothing to Hal, and
there was no reason why her views should disturb him in the least.  Of
course it did not...  and yet...  Hal's good opinion was a thing worth
having; and, in short, he hoped she would not know.

It was not that she was straight-laced.  She was too near the heart of
humanity through her daily toil to be other than a generous judge; but
she was also a creature of ideals for herself and for those who would
be among her best friends; and she would have known unerringly that no
great, consuming love had drowned his reason and filled his senses.

It was for that she would have judged him; and for that he would have
stood before her direct gaze ashamed.  One might be gay and
irresponsible and merry, but there were just one or two things which
must not be allowed in that category.  Instinctively, he knew that in
Hal's view he would have transgressed - not because he felt too much,
but because he felt too little to be justified.

But why need she know?  Why need any one know?  He did not think his
mother would follow up any further the story she had been told, and he
would see his aunt about it personally.  It was better to have it out
with her, lest she took upon herself to interview Lorraine, and make
more trouble still.

He ran up the stairs to the flat, two steps at a time; and scrambled to
get changed for the dinner to which he was going, still feeling a
pulsing thrill that, among all men, he was Lorraine Vivian's chosen
friend.

In another flat - a bachelor one in Ryder Street - an elderly beau,
likewise dressed for a dinner-party, though with the utmost care and
precision, instead of a scramble.  And to himself he said, as he took a
long, last look at the image he loved:

"I must go to-morrow morning and settle this little matter about
Alymer.  No doubt Lorraine will be amazed to see how well-preserved I
am.  She cannot have any real feeling for such a boy, and, after all, a
good-looking man of the world - "

He smiled to himself as over a thought that pleased him, and rang for
his servant to go out and hail a taxi.





CHAPTER XXIX


It was not difficult for Alymer to persuade himself that a little
diplomacy on his part would probably assuage his aunt's wish to upset
his friendship, and incidentally allay his mother's fears; but, as it
happened no one having his welfare so exceedingly at heart over this
matter with the actress was in any degree as amenable or as quietly
pacified as he imagined.

Another interview took place between his mother and his aunt, in which
the latter advised writing to Miss Vivian direct to tell her what his
father and mother thought of the friendship, and that an uncle of his
would call upon her at once.

To say that the letter was an insult is to put it mildly, though at the
same time it was not so much through intention as ignorance.

Lorraine read it with silent amazement, and thought the writer must be
mad.  It seemed quite incredible that any lady in the twentieth century
should apparently be so ignorant concerning the status of a celebrated
actress.  It was evidently taken for granted that she was an
adventuress of the worst type.

She was naturally somewhat angry and indignant, but decided it was not
worth while to take any notice, and merely awaited with some curiosity
the visit of the uncle who was to expostulate with her, and,
practically, offer her terms.

He came at about twelve o'clock, and he did not give his name, merely
asking to see Miss Vivian on a matter of business.

Lorraine dressed with special care, and looked her best when she
quietly entered the drawing-room. She gave an order to her maid with
the door half opened, in the most casual and imperturbed of voices,
then she came siowly in, closed the door behind her, and advanced
towards the figure standing on the hearth.

When she had taken two steps she stood still suddenly, and in a voice
that was rasping and harsh, exclaimed:

"_You!_ - "

Alymer's uncle squared his shoulders, stroked his white moustache with
a gallant air, and replied:

"Yes - er - Lorraine. We meet again, you see. I may say - er - I am
very glad indeed that it is so," and he advanced a step with
outstretched hand.

But Lorraine was rooted to the spot where she stood, and a sudden,
sharp fierceness seemed to burn in her eyes.

"Have-_you_-come-about-Alymer-Hermon?" she asked in slow, cutting
tones, as if each word was hammered out of a seething whirlpool of
suppressed emotions.

"Alymer is my nephew, and his mother asked me to come and - er - talk
to you about him. She is a good deal perturbed on his behalf - er -
because -"

"I do not want to know any more than I am able to gather from the
extraordinary epistle I received from her this morning. What I should
like to know is, did you agree to come here on this errand, knowing who
I was?"

The faded blue eyes of the carefully dressed old rou began to look
uncomfortably from one object to another; anywhere, indeed, but into
those scorching orbs, with their suppressed fires.

Then he took his courage in his hands, and tried again.

"My dear Lorraine, you seem to be taking rather a theatrical view of a
very commonplace matter. Of course it is bad for the boy to get mixed
up in a scandal, just at the beginning of his career, or, for the
matter of that, talked about with a celebrated actress whose husband is
known to be living somewhere. I have come to you as a man of the world,
to ask you as a woman of the world to be generous in the matter, and
help me to set the minds of his parents at rest at once - "

"Ah! It was as a man of the world you came to me before ; but then I -
I "-she gave a low, unpleasant laugh -"  I wasn't a woman of the world,
you see, until you had taught me, and left me."

He did not quite know what the laugh meant, but now his old eyes were
roaming over the beauty that was yet hers, and memory was stirring, and
something made him reckless.

"Don't speak of it like that," he pleaded drawing a little nearer.  "I
know I didn't perhaps treat you quite well; but if there are any amends
I can make now? - If you will let us be friends again? - "

"Amends - amends. What do I want with amends from such as you ?"  And
her eyes flashed dangerously.  He retreated quickly, with a hurt,
rather cowed expression.

"Well, Fate has thrown us together again and I am still a bachelor -
and I have money -"

"Do please try not to insult me any further."

Lorraine had grown calmer, though the dangerous look was still in her
eyes, and she moved away to the window, leaving a large space between
them, and half-turned her back to him.

"I have already burnt the epistle I received from Mrs. Hermon - its
insults were too utterly foolish to notice.  You may go back and tell
her her son has never received any harm from me, and I absolutely
decline to discuss the question any further. As for yourself - you will
doubtless find a taxi on the rank, just outside."

"But, my dear lady, I cannot go back leaving the matter like that."

He grew emboldened again, now that he could not see her eyes.

"I am here to plead on Alymer's behalf. If you are fond of him, you
must at least listen to reason for his sake."

"Not from you. And who are his people that they dare to treat me like
this? . . .  First an insulting letter, and then an emissary such as
you - "

"Alymer is my nephew, and his mother is my sister, and therefore I am a
most suitable emissary, except for a certain incident of long ago,
which has long been consigned to oblivion by both of us, I am sure. The
boy is
young. He is on the threshold of life and a great career.  What will be
the result, do you think, if you refuse to listen, and perhaps ruin his
prospects for your own pleasure ?"

She turned back to him a moment, and the smouldering fires leaped up.

"I was young. I was on the treshold of life. What did you care for my
youth or my future?  What do other men like you care?  My mother was
lax, and you knew it.  I believe you gave her diamonds. And now you
come to me and ask me to spare your nephew - _you_ come - _you!_..."
and the scorn in her voice lashed him like a stinging whip.

But lie tried valiantly to stand his ground, though all his fine attire
and air of bravado could not save his visible shrinking into a faded,
dissipated, worthless-looking old rogue.

"If you won't listen to any plea from me, will you permit me to make
one from his mother, and appeal to the woman in you to realise her
anxiety ?"

Lorraine turned again to the window and looked out upon the silver,
shining river.  And suddenly it was as though all her soul rose up in
arms.  She felt with swift passion that it seemed to matter so much in
the world that a young man with a promising future should not run any
risk of harm from an older woman.

But if it was a young woman, and an older man, what did it matter then
! Why, the very man who would have hurt her could allow himself to
plead for another young thing, if that other were a man.

Doubtless he would argue, as all the rest of them, that years in men
craved the freshness and revivifying of youth it was only natural, and
a woman mattered so much less.  But the mature woman herself, she has
no right to indulge in any longing for that same freshness and
revivifying.

Ten years ago this man had been lust at the age, and with just the
handsome, aristocratic appearance, in spite of iron-grey hair, that so
often attracts a girl in the early twenties. She scorns boys at that
age, and feels the compliment of being chosen by a man of the world
before the
many older women she cannot choose but see would gladly be in her
place. That it is her youth and not herself that holds the attraction
is unknown to her, and a clever man may often dupe her young affections.

Lorraine, with her romantic, imaginative temperament, had grown to
believe herself in love with him, and then had followed the old, sordid
story of insult and her consequent disillusionment.  The memories stung
her now
with a bitter stinging heightened by the feeling that life cared so
much more for Alymer's welfare than it had ever done for hers.

And then that appeal to her woman's feeling to sympathise with the
perturbed mother.

Well, because she was his mother, surely she was blessed enough. What
had she - Lorraines - to place against that great fact ? She felt
painfully that in spite of her success her life was pitifully,
hopelessly barren, scarred this way and that, torn and rent and damaged
by mistake upon mistake which could never now be rectified.

A nausea of it all made her feel in those tense moments, gazing at the
serenely flowing river, that had she a child she would be borne away on
the smooth silver water with her little one, out of the fret and
turmoil, to some quiet nest in the cliffs at its mouth ; and there for
the years that
were left her she would fill her days with the peaceful, homely joys
that had never yet been hers.

But how could she go alone?  Only in the uneventful days to find her
loneness intensified a thousand times, and without escape.

No; the river would flow on to that serene haven; but never for ever
would she and a little one of her own be borne on its motherly bosom to
the country of little things and peacefulness.

And the thought only stung her afresh; driving the sting in deep and
sharp while this man remained under her roof.

"Well," he said at last; and in the interval his voice seemed to have
regained some of its polished, self-possessed satisfaction.  "I see you
are deep in thought.  You were always tender-hearted, and I felt I
should not appeal to your womans heart in vain."

Her face was turned away, so that he could not see her expression, nor
read what was in her eyes, and purposely she let him go on.

"You will, I know, let me go back with the message Mrs. Hermon is
waiting for so anxiously.  It will be quite simple.  No doubt you have
countless admirers, and if you summon another, and let Alymer think he
is replaced, after the first hot-headed wrath he will quickly become
normal again, and apply all his faculties to his profession.  I know
you are too clever not too appreciate just everything involved, and too
generous not to give the young man his best chance."

Then he cleared his throat, stroked his moustache, and waited,
wondering a little why she did not speak.  He squared his shoulders
again, and glanced round to catch a reflection of himself in the
overmantel, then once more
stroked his moustache with a sleek air of growing satisfaction.

It had certainly been a most ticklish undertaking, and but for his
diplomacy, he believed one foredoomed to failure. But of course
Lorraine was a woman of the world, with a larger mixture of the other
kind of womanliness, perhaps, than was usual, and he in his
perspicacity had deftly appealed to both.

Then Lorraine turned round, and at the first glimpse of her face his
own fell, and suddenly he seemed to be shrinking visibly; as if he
would not ungladly have vanished through the floor.

She took a step or two forward, and stood in front of him with her head
held high, and those same scorching fires in her eyes ; and there was
something almost over-awing in the taut intensity of her whole
attitude, mental and physical.

"No," she said, in a cold, firm voice.  "You may not go back and tell
Alymer's mother that I agree to cease my friendship with him for you
and for her.  You may go back and tell her that because when I was
young you had no thought of my future, and no consideration for my
youth, I refuse absolutely to parley in the matter at all.  I shall not
change my course of action by one iota.  I shall not take any single
thought for the future. The future may take care of itself.  If you can
estrange Alymer from me,
that is your affair.  Rather than estrange him myself, I will bind him
closer.
That is my answer to you, and to the _lady_," with fine scorn, " who
sat down yesterday and penned that unheard-of letter to a fellow-woman
she knew nothing whatever against.  Yet I think I could have charged
that to her evident ignorance concerning theatrical matters, and
forgiven her, if a monstrous irony had not sent you to plead her cause
- "

"My dear Lorraine," he interposed, but she stopped him with an
imperious gesture and continued:

"There is nothing for you to say, nothing that I am in the least likely
to listen to.  You have evidently mis-understood my character from
first to last.  Probably you even credited me with wantonness in those
far-off days when I was fool enough to believe all you swore to me of
love and devotion.  However that may be, you tried to set my feet in
the wrong path, and when it suited you, gave me a push that further
evil might conveniently widen the breach between us.  Probably you have
done much the same again since, and with as little compunction.  What I
have to say to you now is just this, once again.  Your mission to-day
is not merely useless; it has considerably aggravated any danger there
may have been.  Because of every girl a middle-aged man has treated as
you sought to treat me I shall hold Alymer to his friendship if I can,
and use any influence I may have to increase rather
than decrease his visits.

"It may be fiendish of me. I don't know. I am no angel ; not even the
obliging soft-hearted fool you and Alymer's mother seem to have
concluded I might be.  And what is more, if I had a vein of kindliness
and unselfish
consideration, you have done your utmost to stamp it out.
"Most of us are half good, and half bad.  To-day, you have given the
devil in me an impetus such as it has seldom had before.  That is your
affair. Go back and explain the real truth if you dare.  Tell Mrs.
Hermon you found
the low adventuress a devil, and one that you yourself had tried to
help to make.  Tell her " - again with that low, unpleasant laugh - "
that you fear the worst for Alymer.
That is all. Now you can go."

Once more he futilely tried to speak, but she only waved him aside, and
walked with a haughty, scornful step ahead of him.

"Jean," she called to her maid, as she passed through the little hall,
"Will you open the door for this gentleman?"

In her own room, she slid down into a large cushioned chair and sobbed
her heart out.




CHAPTER XXX

It was there Hal found her.  By the merest chance she had run up to the
flat at her midday hour, to ask a question about Sir Edwin Crathie. and
a rumour concerning him that she felt an imperative need to have
answered. When she saw Lorraine in tears the question was instantly
banished for the moment.

Had Lorraine been in her normal condition, she could hardly have failed
to notice that the "Hal" who came up in haste to ask this urgent
question was not the "Hal" of a few months, a few weeks ago.  She would
probably
have observed that the vague, indefinable change Alymer had seen in her
had grown more marked anti more defined.

She seemed to have sprung suddenly into womanhood.

It was no light-hearted, careless, rather boisterous girl who appeared
unexpectedly at the flat, to give her one or two eager hugs, tell her
the latest news of her doings in gay, gossipy fashion, and eat an
unconscionable amount of chocolates, usually kept for her special
delectation.

The old, bright look was there on the surface, the ready, laughing
speech, but there was also, with it, something that approached a
dignified phase, and suggested a new reserve.  She was also distinctly
better-looking likewise, in some vague, incomprehensible way.

But Lorraine had not time to take any note of the change, for all her
faculties were bent upon shielding herself.

Of course it was useless to hide that she had been crying, but at least
Hal must not know that the crying had been soul-racking sobs.

With a look of consternation and dismay she, Hal, was across the room
in a bound, kneeling beside the big chair.

"My dear old girl, what in the world is the matter ?"

Lorraine contrived to smile with some appearance of reality, as she
dried her eyes, and said:

"I don't quite know.  It's idiotic of me, isn't it?  If you hadn't come
and stopped me, I should never have been able to appear to-night for
swollen eyes."

But Hal was not so easily put off.  She grasped both Lorraine's hands
in hers and said resolutely:

"Why are you crying, Lorry?"

Feeling it hopeless to avoid some sort of a reason, she replied:

"I had a letter this morning that upset me rather.  It is silly of me
to take any notice, and I shouldn't if I were well.  I've been
wretchedly nervy lately, and it makes me silly about things."

"What was the letter about?"

"Oh, only some one who is jealous, I suppose; trying to get a little
satisfaction out of saying a few things that may hurt me.  It is so
silly of me to mind."

Hal's mind immediately flew to Mrs. Vivian, and instead of inquiring
any further she just said:

"Poor old Lorry," and kissed her affectionately.

Then with a little laugh:

"I suppose you weren't going to have any lunch at all, but I'm
frightfully hungry.  I hope to goodness there is something in the
house."

"Run and tell Jean to see cook about it, there's a dear.  I must bathe
my eyes and try to look presentable."

While they lunched Hal chatted of many things, but she noted that
Lorraine was looking thin, and seemed to have something on her mind,
while she made no attempt to eat what was placed on her plate.

When she was pulling her gloves on later she asked:

"Why don't von take a week's holiday and go into the country, Lorry?...
It is no use going on until you are ill, as you did before."

"I think I must ask about it.  I feel as if one week would do me a
world of good.  How is Sir Edwin?   Have you seen him lately?"

"We played golf on Saturday."

A white look came suddenly into Hal's face, and she riveted her
attention on an apparently tiresome fastener as she asked, with the
greatest show of unconcern she could muster, the question that brought
her there.

"Have you heard a rumour that he is going to marry Miss Bootes?" naming
one of the richest heiresses cf the day.

"No; I hadn't heard it."

Lorraine gave a quick glance at her face, but saw only the look of
concentration on the fractious fastener.

"Well," Hal said in level tones, " I suppose she is worth about half a
million, and I don't think he is rich."

"Probably he has only been seen speaking to her, or taking her to
supper at a big reception .  That would be quite enough to make some
people link them at once, and fix the date of the wedding."

"There's a bun-fight at the Bruces' to-night," Hal ran on, "with Llaney
to play the violin, and Lascelles to sing - quite an elaborate affair :
so it is sure to be very boring ; but I suppose Alymer will be there,
looking adorably beautiful, and all the women gazing at him.  It will
be entertaining to chaff him, anyhow."

"Well, don't tell him you found nie weeping," with a little laugh. " He
might not realise it was only nerves."

"I'll tell him he's to take you away for a week's holiday," Hal replied
lightly.  " Goodness knows, you've done enough for him."

She went back to the office and settled down to her work with resolute
determination, but any one who knew her well would have seen that some
cloud seemed to have descended upon her, and that all the time she
stuck to her work she was wrestling to appear normal, in the face of
some enshrouding worry.

Through all the letter she was writing, and over the proofs she read to
aid the chief, there seemed to be one sentence dancing in letters of
glee, like a war-dance executed by little black devils on the foolscap
of her mind.

It was last night she had heard it, that ominous piece of news that
took her violently by surprise, in spite of her practical common sense.
 Some one had said it quite casually in the motor bus - one man to
another, as an item of news of the day.

"They say Sir Edwin Crathie is to marry Miss Bootes the heiress:

"What!  The Right Honourable Sir Edwin Crathie?"

" So they say.  He's very heavily in debt, I believe - over some bad
speculations - and an heiress is about the only thing to float him.
Besides, the party wants rich men, and it would be a good move on his
part."

That was all, and then the two silk-hatted, frock-coated men had got
out. Eminently well-to-do men - probably both stockbrokers, but men who
looked as if they would know.

Hal had gone on home in a sudden torment of feeling.  Of course he was
free to marry the heiress if be wished, but why, if so, had he dared
once again to drop the mask of companiable friendliness with her and
grow lover-like?

The change had been coming slowly of late, wrought with infinite
caution and care.  He had not meant to frighten her again, and find
himself in disgrace, so he had taken each step very leisurely, and made
sure of his ground before trusting himself upon it.  The next time he
kissed her, he had determined she should like it too well to resent his
action.

And the safe moment, as he deemed it, had come the previous Saturday
after a delightful afternoon at golf.  They had motored down to the
Sundridge Park Links, and stayed afterwards to dine at the club-house,
then back to Bloomsbury, and into the pretty sitting-room, where Dudley
was not likely to appear until late, because he had gone to a theatre
with Doris.

And then forthe second time he had kissed her.

But this was quite a different kiss.  It was a climax to one of the
best days he had ever had - a day in which, besides playing golf, they
had talked of State secrets and State affairs.  He had paid her the
compliment of talking to her as if she were a man, and Hal, being
exceptionally well informed on most questions of the day, was able to
hold her own with him, and to make the conversation of genuine interest.

And his quick, observant brain greatly admired her power of argument,
and her woman's directness of method, confirming the view that while a
an usually indulges in a good deal of preamble, with many doubts and
side-lights, a woman trusts to her instinct and arrives at the same
conclusion in half the time.  Of late, too, he had talked to her of
interesting modern problems; and what had been frivolous in their
earlier friendshipm had solidified into a real companionship.

And now as he stood on the hearth with his back to the fire, looking
with rather critical eyes round the pretty room that Hal had contrived
to rob of nearly all its lodging-house aspect, she stood quite
naturally and unconcernedly beside him drawing off her gloves.

"It was a good game," she was saying, "if you had not messed up that
sixth hole.  It's a brute, isn't it.  I was lucky to escape that marshy
bit."

"You are getting too good for me.  Your drives out-classed mine nearly
every time."

"But I can't approach.  I never, never, shall be able to hit a ball
just far enough.  If I loft on to the green at all it is always the far
side, with a roll."

"You'll soon master that.  A little more practice, and you'll be in
form for matches.  I think  we'll have to go away somewhere and have a
fortnight's golfing!  Why not to some little French place?  You would
finish up a first-class player."

Hal laughed lightly.

"Just imagine Brother Dudley's face when I told him I was going to
France for a fortnight with you!"

"You wouldn't have to tell him anything about me," watching her with a
sudden keenness in his eyes.  "I should have to be personated by Miss
Vivian or some one."

"Oh, I dare say Lorry would come for the matter of that.  We might
teach her to play too."

"Well, I hardly meant she should actually be there," he went on in a
meaning voice.  "She'd be rather in the way, wouldn't she?  I don't
know that I could do with any one else but you."

He stepped closer to her, and slipped his arm round her shoulders.  "A
third person will always be in the way when I am with you, Hal."

She changed colour, and breathed fitfully, moving as if to disengage
herself from his arm.

"No, don't go.  This is very harmless, and I've been exceedingly good
for a long time, now, haven't I?"

"All the greater pity to spoil your record," putting up her hand to
remove his.

But he only clasped her fingers tightly, and drew her closer, till he
could feel her heart palpitating a little wildly; and that gave him
courage.

"It has been far harder than you have the remotest idea of.  I deserve
one kiss, if only by way of encouragement."

His face was close to hers now, and with a little murmuring sound of
gladness he kissed her cheek.

"Little woman," he murmured, "I've grown desperately fond of you.  I
hardly know how to do without you.  Be a sensible little girl, won't
you?"

She disengaged herself resolutely then, but she was not angry, and her
eyes were shining.

"You are transgressing flagrantly - as I should express it in a
newspaper report.  Collect your forces, and retire gracefully, O
transgressor."

"I suppose I really must go now.  It's been such a splendid day, hasn't
it?"

He seemed to speak with a shadow of regret; and there was a shadow of
regret in his eyes also as he riveted them on her face.  Then he turned
suddenly and picked up his cap.

"Well - the best of friends must part - and the best of days come to an
end.  Good-bye, little girl."

With his cap in his hand, he suddenly put both his arms round her and
kissed her with the old passionate eagerness - then he loosed her and
turned to the door.

"I'm in love with you, Hal - head over ears in love; but it's a
devilish hard world, and Heaven only knows what's to come of it."

With which enigmatical sentence he let himself out and departed.

When he had gone Hal stood quite still where he had left her, and
looked into vacancy.  About her lips there was the ghost of a smile.
In her ears was only the recollection of the words, "I'm head over ears
in love with you."

So, it was coming at last - the great, glad day of love and fulfilment.
 If he had set out to trifle with her at first, at least he was serious
enough now.  She, too, had only trifled in the beginning, seizing a
little fun and adventure in her workaday world.  There had been no
reason to suppose it need hurt any one.  Now, she, too, was serious.

Perhaps the things detrimental to him that she had heard previously had
some truth in them then, but he was changed now.  Love had changed him.
 He was like another man.  She had seen and felt it in a thousand ways
that could not be translated into speech or writing.  It was just that
he was different, and in every particular it was to his advantage.

She was different too.  She did not resent the kiss, because she knew
that he honestly cared for her.  Ans she knew, too, that she honestly
cared for him.  The end of the enigmatical sentence rankled a little,
but she did not led herself dwell upon it.

She chose instead  to remember how he had kissed her; and that he had
confessed he was head over ears in love with her.  Which only showed
that Hal - for all her worldly wisdom and practical common sense -
could be as blind and as romantic ans any one when her heart was
touched, and her pulses romping feverishly at a memory that thrilled
all her being.

Three days later she had heard the conversation.

Of course it was absurd - manifestly so - and yet an yet -

After a miserable twenty-four hours of fighting against her own
uneasiness, she paid the flying visit to Lorraine, to see if she could
glean any light on the gossip from her, only to return to the office
baffled and tormented.

It was the enigmatical sentence that pressed forward now, instead of
the thrilling confession that he loved her.  Was it possible he was
indeed so base as to love her and tell her in the very same week that
he had asked another woman to be his wife?

And if so, what had prompted him?  What was in his mind?  Why had he
not left things as they were, and refrained both from the kiss and the
confession?

And then above her tortured feelings rose the triumphant thought,
goading and pleasing at the same time: "Whether it is true or not, he
loves _me_ - not her, the heiress, but me - Hal Pritchard - the
peniless City worker."





CHAPTER XXXI



In the evening came the party at Dick Bruce's home, and it was
necessary, she knew, to thrustl all recollection of Sir Edwin aside, in
order to give rise to no questioning and appear as usual.

So she dressed herself with special care, rubbed a pink tinge on to her
white cheeks, bathed and refreshed eyes dulled by worry and shadows,
and made her appearance, looking, inf anything, a little more radiant
than usual.

"By Jove! you look stunning, Hal," was her jovial uncle's warm
greeting.  "Who'd ever have thought, to see the ugly little imp of a
small child you were, that you would grow up into a fashionable,
striking woman?  I congratulate you.  When's the happy man coming
along?"

"When I'm tired to enjoying of myself," she laughed, "and feel equal to
coping with anything as trying as a husband.  At present a brother
keeps me quite sufficiently occupied, "and she passed on.

Across the large, well-lit room, towering above every one around him,
she saw the head and shoulders of Alymer Hermon.  All about her, as she
moved towards him, she heard the low-voiced query: "Who is he?"

No society beauty at her zenith could have caused greater interest.  He
was looking grave, too, and thoughtful, which suited him better than
laughter, giving him something of a look apart, and banishing all
suggestion of the conceit and self-satisfaction that would have spoilt
him.  Then he caught sight of Hal, and instantly all his face lit up,
and a twinkle shone in his eyes as he edged towards her.

"How late you are!  I thought you were never coming.  Did your hair
require an extra half-hour?  I suppose you've been tearing it out by
the roots over your faithless swain."

"I don't know what you mean, and anyhow I shouldn't be such a fool as
to tear my own hair out by the roots for any one.  If hair is coming
out in that fashion, it shall be his roots."

"Come and sit down.  I'll soon find you a chair."

"What's the good of that?  We can't converse unless you sit on the
floor.  I work too hard to spend my evening shouting banalities at the
ceiling."

"Well, let's hunt for a couch; there are plenty here on ordinary
occasions.  Isn't it a poser where all the furniture goes to at a
'beano' like this!  There's nothing in the hall, nor in the
dinning-room; and there doesn't seem to be much here.  Let's make for
the lounge."

"But I can't take you away.  I shall get my face scratched.  You were
made to be looked at, and half these silly people are staring their
eyes out in your direction.  I don't know how you put up with it so
serenely.  I should want to bite them all.  If I were a man, and had
been burdened with an appearance like yours, I should want to hit Life
in the face for it."

"Don't be silly.  What does it matter?  It pleases them, and it doesn't
hurt me.  I get my own back a little anyway...  when I want to" - with
a low, significant laugh.

"Oh of course lots of women are in love with you," - with a
contemptuous sniff; "but if I were a man I wouldn't give tuppence for
the woman who made me a present of her affections.  You miss all the
fun of the chase, and the victory.  It must be deadly dull."

"That's what Lorraine has sometimes said; but what can I do?  Shall I
paint my face black?"

"Oh, I've seen you look black enough, but it's rather becoming than
otherwise.  Anyhow, it isn't insipid.  But you've grown quite manly
lately, I suppose.  I hear about you occasionally positively working
hard.  Heavens! - what you owe to Lorraine!""
"I do," fervently.

"Then why in the world don't you look after her a bit?  I turned up
unexpectedly at half-past one to-day, and found her sobbing her eyes
out."

"You found Lorraine sobbing her eyes out..." incredulously.

"I did.  She told me not to tell you, as it was only nerves - but of
course it wasn't.  You know as well as I that Lorraine doesn't suffer
from weepy nerves.  It's worry again; and she is looking thoroughly
ill."

"Why again?..."

He was looking grave enough now, and there was anxiety in his voice.

"Oh, because there's often something to worry her - either her mother,
or her memories, or the future.  I suppose you haven't bothered to go
and see her lately to cheer her up?  Been too busy with your briefs!"

"I was there yesterday, to inquire how she was after a bad sick
headache.  The room was all violets and snow-drops"; and his eyes grew
soft.

"And did she sight of her robust health knock you backwards?"

Hal was irritable from the strain on her own nerves, and it pleased her
to hurl sarcasms at him, feeling somehow angry at his calm,
smoothly-flowing path to success.

"I thought she looked ill, and I advised her to go away for a week."

"That was kind of you.  And why won't she take your safe advice?"

"She won't go alone, and she said there was no one to go with her."

"Too many briefs, eh?"

"What have my briefs to do with it?"

"Oh, nothing.  She's given hours and hours to you and your future; but
of course you couldn't risk sparing a  week -"

"But!... " he began with raised eyebrows.

""Oh, don't 'but' in that inane fashion.  If you say it isn't proper I
shall scream.  Lorraine is nearly old enough to be your mother, and she
has far too much sense to be in love with you; and you wouldn't be so
idiote as to imagine it any use for you to be in love with her.
Therefore it's only a companion she wants to keep her from moping and
dwelling on sad thoughts; and you seem to be able to do that - as well
as any of us; so why can't you get another man, or boy if you prefer
it, to go for a run into the country with you?  Flip would take her by
the next train if he were there.  He wouldn't care a farthing for
scandalmongers.  But I suppose he can do that sort of thing because
he's a man.  And, anyhow, I don't suppose she would go with you, even
with a third person.  She might think a whole week of you too much of a
good thing."

His face has grown still more thoughtful, and he paid small heed to her
taunts.

Lorraine sobbing, Lorraine ailing, Lorraine unhappy, filled his mind.
What could have happened to upset her so?  True, she had not been
looking well for some weeks, and had complained of headaches and
weariness; but he felt sure something quie apart had transpired to
upset her so thoroughly.

Neither did he think it was Hal's version of the usual worries.  He
greatly feared his own people had made some move of which he was in
ignorance.  He contemplated with deep vexation the probability that he
himself was indirectly the cause of her new trouble, and he mentally
decided then and there to go to considerable lengths, if she wished it,
on her behalf.

Probably if he travelled down to some sea-side place and saw her
comfortably settled, and later on ran down to fetch her, she would be
more easily induced to go.  At any rate he would call the very next day
and see, if his proposition simplified matters at all.

Hal watched him a little impatiently, and at length remarked:

"You seem to be thinking rather hard.  Are you meditating upon
Lorraine's trouble, or my suggestion, that it is unlikely she could
endure a whole week of you, unadulterated?"

"Both," with a humorous glance at her.  "I'm thinking it would be
interesting to find out the truth in both cases."

"Well, you won't do that.  Lorraine never tells her troubles.  Not even
to me.  And she's too tender-hearted to hurt your feelings on the other
question."

"I'm not afraid of that."

His face grew a little brighter, and, as if satisfied with the result
of his cogitations, he changed the subject.

"What's making you so ratty to-night?  Is it the faithless swain?"

"I don't know what you mean."

"Perhaps you haven't seen the evening paper."

"I haven't.  I'm sick to death of papers by six o'clock."

"Well, you oughtn't to have missed it to-night, and then you'd have had
the pleasure of seeing the announcement of the faithless swain's
engagement to the rich heiress."

Hal bit her lip suddenly, and felt her blood run cold, but she kept her
outward composure perfectly, and merely commented:

"Oh, you mean about Sir Edwin Crathie and Miss Bootes!... that's very
old news."

"Well, it was only in the paper to-night anyhow; and only given as a
rumour then.  I was going to ask you if it is true.  Yhey say he's in
the dickens of a mess for money.  But of course you know all about it."

He was enjoying himself now, feeling that he was getting a little of
his own back, and it made him unconsciously merciless.

"It must have been rather a trying moment when you had to break to him
that you couldn't possibly pay any of his debts, and that therefore you
must part?"

"I don't know anything about his debts.  They don't interest me.  I can
beat him at golf, playing level, and that's far more to the point."

"Then you are going to play golf with him, while Miss Bootes bears his
proud name in return for paying his debts!  Sure, it sounds a nice
handy arrangement for him."

Then Hal got up.

"I don't want to _talk_ to you, because you are talking such drivel;
and I don't want to _look_ at you, because your pink and white and blue
and gold irritate me beyond words, so you'd better go and stand in the
middle of the room for the benefit of those who delight to gaze; and
I'll go in search of a refreshingly ugly person who can talk sense!"

Hermon gave a low chuckle of enjoyment, and continued to chuckle to
himself until she was lost to sight and his hostess was introducing
some charming dbutante to him.  The dbutante was pink and white and blue
and gold likewise, and gazed up at him adorably under long curling
lashes; but he might have expressed a fellow-feeling with Hal, for he
found himself merely bored, and longed to go in search, not of a
refreshingly ugly person, but of the refreshingly irritable, snappy,
unappreciative one who had just left him.

When at last he was free, however, he found Hal had complained of a
headache and gone home early, unattended.





CHAPTER XXXII


On her way home Hal stopped the taxi and bought an evening paper.  When
she got it, however, she found Dudley there, so she merely held it
under her cloak.

"You are back early," he said, in a surprised voice.

"Yes.  It was very formal and very dull, and I was tired."

He glanced up with questioning eyes.  It was something new for Hal not
to stay untill the last moment at a festivity.  He thought she looked a
little paler than usual, and there were shadows about her eyes, but she
interrupted any comment he might make by an inquiry after Doris.

"She is very well."

He stopped short rather suddenly, and seemed thoughtful.  He had been
urging Doris to fix the date of their wedding, and let him see about
taking a house or a flat, but she had seemed to avoid the subject
lately, and he was a little troubled.

"I suppose poor Basil is much the same?"

"Yes.  He and Ethel were both asking what had become of you.  They said
you hadn't been up for a long time."

"I haven't.  I'll go to-morrow.  Good-night," and she kissed him, and
went upstairs.

In her own room she sat on the bed, and read the evening paper.

Yes, it was there sure enough, but it was only given as a rumour.  "We
understand there is a rumour..."  How well she knew the phrase, with
its dangerous suggestiveness, and safe retreat.  She wondered who had
started the rumour, and how the paper had got it.

But, again, insistently she asserted it could not be true.  If it had
not been for last Saturday she might have believed it.  But after
that... no, he could not be so base.  She put the thought away from
her, and tried to sleep, but her eyes would look out into the
blackness, and her brain ask questions.

"What if it were true?"  She clenched her hands and fought the
question.  It could not be true; why worry?  Yet he had never made the
slightest suggestion of marrying her.  She remembered that, but scorned
it.

Why should he?  There had been nothing lover-like between them until
the previous Saturday; and of course had there been any one else, it
would have been so easy to go on the same and make no change that
particular afternoon.

Finding what comfort she could out of these thoughts, she fell at last
into a troubled sleep.

The following afternoon, in fulfilment of her promise, she went up to
Holloway from the office.  Doris was out, and Ethel not home yet, but
the door was opened to her by a gaunt stranger, who said:

"Come in.  This is one of my days.  I'm in charge this afternoon."

Hal looked into the angular face, which appeared to her as if it had
been roughly hewn with a chisel, by some one who was a mere amateur,
and she could not repress a little smile.

"I don't think I've met you before.  Are you - are you - a friend of
Mr. Hayward's?"

"Well, he's a friend of mine, if that will do as well.  I'm generally
know here as G.  The letter isn't stamped on my face, but it's on the
door of my flat, and that's much the same."

She stood aside for Hal to pass down the passage, adding grimly as Hal
loitered, with rather an amused, engaging expression:

"I don't stand for much more than a door, with a G on it, as I often
tell Mr. Hayward, but I suppose it's all right."

"A little more occasionally," suggested Hal.  "A door wouldn't be much
use to Mr. Hayward, anyhow."

"That's what he says.  Won't you go down to his room?"

"What are you going to do?"

"Get the tea.  It's one of the few things I can do passably well."

"Let me come and help.  It won't take long.  I'm interested in that
door.  You see, I'm not even G; and I don't possess a front door."

The music-teacher looked searchingly into her face, and was evidently
pleased with what she saw, for she adopted a friendly note, and seemed
ready to chat.  Hal followed her into the little kitchen, and commenced
to take off her hat.

"I'm an old friend," she volunteered, "and I often leave my hat in
here.  Are both Mr. Hayward's sisters out?"

"Miss Hayward will be late to-night, and her sister is uncertain.  It
depends somewhat upon which young man she is out with," in acid tones.

Hal glanced up in astonishment, but her companion was busy with the
cups and saucers, and  did not notice the look.

"All I can say is, I'm sorry for that nice gentleman who is fool enough
to think of marrying her.  Lord! he'd be safer with some one with a
face like a door-knocker, such as mine.  But there, they're all the
same; and the nicest of them are generally the biggest fools."

Hal grasped the situation at once, and instead of enlightening her
concerning her own identity, said casually:

"There's another young man as well, is there?"

"There is so.  A pawnbroker I should take him to be, who wears the
jewellery left in his care on his person for safety.  As a matter of
fact, I believe he is a South African millionaire.  He brought her home
one day, and Blakde - that's the housekeeper's husband down below -
recognised him.  He was out in South Africa in the war, and he saw him
then."

Hal drummed on the table with her fingers to assume nonchalance.

"Does Miss Hayward know?"

'Know?  Of course she doesn't.  How should she know, particularly if
that artful monkey did not want her to?  I don't know where the poor
sick man would be now but for me.  She's always off somewhere - that
minx - and I rush back from my music pupils, because I can't rest for
the thought of him here all alone.  I've given one up, who wanted a
lesson at half-past four every day.  That's the time he needs his tea."

"Why do you do all this for him?"  Hal found herself asking, a little
unaccountably.  "He is nothing to you, is he - no relation, I mean?"

"Nothing to me!...  Oh, isn't he though!  I'd like to know what is
anything, if he's nothing?"

She rattled the cups and saucers a little restlessly, and Hal, with
growing interest, waited for her to go on.

"Before I knew him, I was nothing in the world but a door with a letter
on it, as I've just told you.  That's all I stood for, a mere letter of
the alphabet who paid a monthly rent.  I told him so, when I first came
across, and he said, 'Well, I'm very glad they didn't leave G out of
the alphabet.'  That's all."
"But I'm his slave now.  Nobody cared whether there was a G or not
before.  It isn't pleasant to feel you're a mere cypher, with no
particular meaning to any one; just shot in haphazard to fill up a
blank - a mere creature, useful to teach exercises and scales to odious
children one only longs to slap.
"Fancy being expected to keep yourself alive in a dingy little flat,
for ever alone, just to do that!"  The cups rattled more restively
still.  "I say, the universe is the grimmest jester there ever was.  Me
to teach music to keep life in a body that doesn't want it!  If I'd
been employed laying out corpses in their grave-clothes there'd have
been some sense in it.  I'm not much more that a figurehead of an old
hulk myself.  But music!... music!...  Oh Lord, and I haven't one real
note of it in my whole composition."

Hal seated herself on the table.  With her quick intuition she
perceived at once entertainment of an original kind was before her, and
she promptly laid herself out to obtain all she could.

"Why do you teach music?  I don't think you do quite suggest a
musician?"

"Of course I don't."

The gaunt spinster was cutting some bread-and-butter now with a savage
air.

"Do I suggest anything, except perhaps a butcher or an undertaker?  Yet
I can only keep myself alive with music.  That's the jest of the Arch
Humorist.  My father was a clergyman.  He droned out services for fifty
years in a hamlet, with a little square church like a wooden money-box.
 I was taught music so that I could - well - make the tin-pot organ
groan, I used to call it.  I had twenty-five years of that, with never
a break.  I got so that, to keep myself from turning into a stone
gargoyle on the organ seat, I must have my little jest too.
"One way I had it was by making the organ groan dismallest at weddings
and christenings, and squeak hilariously at funerals.  Father never
noticed, he'd already turned gargoyle, you see, and as for the village
people! well, it suited them, because they always wept at weddings, and
overate themselves at funerals."

"And then?..."  Hal was so thoroughly enjoying herself now, she had
almost forgotten the invalid.

"Well, then the gargoyle died, or ran down, or something.  I should
think he got tired of sing-song the tender mercies of God to the devout
people, and His judgments on the wicked.  It always seemed to me the
good folks got the nastiest knocks; and the wicked, well, they fairly
left the green bay tree behind.
"Anyhow, I'd been devout enough, as far as sinning goes, for forty
years.  I wasn't even blessed with the chance to be anything else.
Then a new parson came, an underdone young man with new fal-da-dal
ideas.  I wonder how soon _he'd_ become a gargoyle?  I defy him to
stand out long against the cast-iron nonentity of that village.  But he
didn't take kindly either to me or my music.  Hadn't any sens of humour
at all.  I don't know what I ever knew a clergyman who had.  Perhaps a
man couldn't very well go on being a clergyman if he possessed such a
trait.
"Anyhow, this particular one did not think I put enough expression into
the tunes.  He said they hardly sounded like sacred tunes at all; which
wasn't surprising, when you come to think that sometimes a low note and
sometimes a high note on that little tin-pot organ would take it into
its head to stick, and would either boom or squeak all through the
thing I was playing."  Hal burst out laughing, quite unable to contain
herself any longer, but the spinster went on calmly: "The tune might
just as well have been 'Down by the Old Bull and Bush' then, but it
wasn't my fault, because when your hands and arms and feet and eyes and
ears are all struggling to keep time with a village choir that varies
its pace every few bars, you've got nothing left to release a stuck
note with."

"I hope you didn't tell the under-done young parson about 'The Old Bull
and Bush'?" said Hal, still rocking with enjoyment and bent chiefly
upon leading her on.

"I'd never heard of it then, or I might have.  Even that won't reach
the village I'm thinking of for a hundred years; and then they'll play
it until the very birds lose heart, and think they are uncannily up to
date.  So they are if you count it when things come round the second
time.  I told him if the organ seemed to be playing 'Yankee Doodle,' I
supposed it was because it felt like it; as, for twenty-five years, it
had more or less pleased itself at my expense.
"But he'll be a gargoyle soon, and then he won't notice, and it will
boom and squaek to its heart's content.  Of course I ought to have
stayed on because I matched it all, and I didn't mind the booming and
squeaking as long as the choir didn't get convulsed, and stop
altogether - because that was liable to catch father's attention.  A
gargoyle is out of place in London.  It's as mad for me bo be here as
that I'm here to teach music.  After I became fossilised I ought to
have stayed on till I died, and then that self-willed organ could have
fairly squeaked itself out over my corpse.  Come along and have some
tea now.  Poor Mr. Hayward will be getting faint."

"But you're too perfectly delicious for anything!" Hal cried, springing
off the table.  "Why haven't I known you for years?  Why haven't I
known you all my life?  You must meet my cousin Dick Bruce.  You
absolutely _must_, with the least possible delay.  He'll simply dote on
you.  Come along to Basil, and tell me heaps and heaps more"; and she
caught her by the arm in the friendliest fashion, and half-pulled her
along to the little sitting-room.





CHAPTER XXXIII


"What a gossip you two have been having!"  Basil said, and, seeing the
laughter in Hal's eyes, he added, "has G been telling you some of her
amazing theories, or tearing the existing order of the universe to
shreds?"

"Oh, I don't know, but she's simply immense. Have you heard about the
tin-pot organ that will play its own way, and the choir that gets
convulsed, and the underdone young parson?  She's simply got to know
Dick. He wouldn't miss it for the world."

"Yes; I've heard most of it. She plays an organ of laughter for me
nowadays, that makes me bless the day she was born."

The gaunt spinster positively blushed.

"Oh, that's just your way," she snapped, bashfully trying to hide her
pleasure. "If I hadn't been G, a pretty, charming young woman with real
music in her might have been, and you'd have liked that much better."

"No, I shouldn't. She'd have played 'Home, Sweet Home,' with
variations, and 'The Maiden's Prayer ' - I know her at a glance. If you
do only play scales and exercises I'm sure you manage to put a lot of
character into them."

"That's only thumping; and who wants thumping ?"

"I do, when it's the universe. I'm just as much askew with it as you
are, only I haven't got the wit to thump it so satisfactorily. You are
going it for the two of us now."

"Still, you're not a gargoyle..." with a queer twist of her face that
delighted Hal.

"I shall positively take you to Dick myself," she said, "or bring him
here to you. He'll talk to you about a mother's patience, and babies;
and you'll talk to him about gargoyles and organs, and Heaven only
knows where you'll both get to ; but I wouldn't miss it for anything."

"I don't know who Dick may be, but if he talks to me about mothers and
babies " - grimly - " I shall groan like that organ did at
christenings. They may be useful in the general scheme, but beyond that
I don't know how
any one can put up with them at all; with their potsy-wotsy, and
pucksie-ducksie, and general stickiness.  It's quite enough for me that
I have to knit stupid little socks for their silly little feet, for
bread-and-butter. The most I can say for it is, that it's a more
satisfactory plan than
casting your bread on the waters, on the off-chance some kindly Elijah
will butter it."

"Where are the socks, G ?" Basil asked, looking round.  "I should like
Hal to enjoy the edifying spectacle of your knitting babies' socks."

"You don't mean that," interrupted Hal comically.  "I can't believe it."

"It's the horrible truth," asserted the spinster, calmly going on with
her tea -" most of them go to little black whelps in the Antipodes.
After all, it isn't any more incongruous than the music - is it ?"

"But you don't do it for the under-done young parson, surely ?"

"Goodness gracious, no.  What an idea!   He wiped his hands of me long
ago. The wildest stretch of imagination, you see, could not picture me
ever looking like an angel; so he left me to my fate!"  And again the
humorous
twisted smile delighted her small audience.

"Have you seen Splodgkins lately ?" Basil asked.
"You say all babies are sticky and objectionable; but you must admit
that sticky imp down below is better than two-thirds of the other
babies in the world shining with soap polish."

"So he is"; and the grim face relaxed still further.  "He was sitting
in my way on the stairs this morning, and as I could not get by, I
said, 'Make room, please, Master Splodgkins; you don't own the
universe.' 'Eth oi doth,' he lisped. 'Noime ain't thplodums. Damn th'
ooniverth.'"

It was good to hear Basil's whole-hearted laughter.
"We ought to have had him to tea," he said regretfully.  "He would have
delighted Hal.  He's two-and-a-halfyears old" - turning to her - "this
remarkable person-age; and, like most gutter snipes, has developed as an
ordinary child of four.  He and G have debates occasionally. He wishes
to be called D, because that is the letter on his front door, and
'Splodgkins ' hurts his dignity but he's so funny when he is indignant
we can't resist
teasing him."

A little wistful smile crept into the invalid's eyes.

"We have lots of fun in this dingy old barrack between us," he told
Hal. "We are rarely silly enough to be dull, with so many queer,
interesting folks under the same roof."

Hal felt something like a sudden lump in her throat, but she smiled
brightly as she looked from one to the other, feeling somehow the
better for knowing such waifs of life and circumstance, who could yet
baffle Fate's pitilessness with genuine laughter.

"Dick is writing a most weird and incomprehensible book on vegetables
and babies.  I'm quite certain you could give him lots of ideas," she
remarked to G.

"He'd better put Splodgkins in if he wants to make it sell," said she.
"Only they mightn't allow it at the libraries. Splodgkins's vocabulary
is fortunately sometimes indistinguishable for his lisp."

"Splodgkins couldn't be translated," put in Basil.  "He sometimes comes
to tea with me and G; but he is almost too exhausting.  I think he
knows every bad word in the English language; but one has to forgive
him because he always saves half his cake for his baby sister, and
hurls violent abuse at any one who dares to disparage her.
"Are you going?..." as G got up.  "I'm sure Miss Pritchard doesn't want
you to leave us."

"Miss Pritchard!..."  In a horrified voice.

"Never mind," said Hal quickly.  "It didn't matter."  Then to Basil, in
explanation: "G said something about Doris's fianc, not knowing I was
his sister, but I quite forget what it was.  Good-bye, G," holding out
a frank hand.  "I think you're a delightful person, and I'm just as
glad as Basil that you weren't left out of the alphabet."

A few minutes later Doris came in, looking flushed and stealthy, and
the first thing Hal noticed was a loverly little diamon brooch she had
not seen before.

"What a darling brooch," she exclaimed, after their greeting.  "Did
Dudley give you that?  He might have shown it to me."

"No..." stammered Doris, turning red.  "I've had it a long time.  It's
not real."

"Well, it's a wonderful imitation, then" said Hall a little drily -
and remembered the man like a pawnbroker's shop.

Then Ethel joined them, and Hal's quick eyes saw sthe still increasing
anxiety, just as surely as she saw the increased furtiveness in Doris's
side-long glances.  And because of all that she felt for Ethel, she
trust her own care into the background resolutely, and made the evening
as gay as she could while she was there.

Only afterwards she went home through the lamp-lit darkness, feeling as
if some vague shadow had descended silently upon her little world.

What was this insistent, nameless fear at her own heart?  Why was
Lorraine weeping when she found her yesterday?  Why was trouble
steadily gathering on Ethel's face?  What was this gossip about Doris? -

The gloom of a foggy night added to her depression.  Why, in the tube
railway, did all these people about her look so white and tired and
lifeless?  Did they just go on in their niches, in the same way that
the grotesque music-teacher had gone on in hers for all those
monotonous years; only to become like an uncared-for, unwanted letter
of the alphabet pushed in to fill up a blank in a big city at last?

Were they all gargoyles-fixed, rigid, joyless, carved things, fastened
in their respective niches, not for ornament, or for use specially, but
just because the general machine seemed to require them?

And if so - why? ... why? ... why? -

It was so easy to be joyous if one was made for it.  Such a little
would make every one gay, if they were fashioned accordingly.  What
could be the good of disfiguring a beautiful world with all these
vacant, expressionless, hopeless masks?

Hal did not read poetry.  She was perfectly frank about being utterly
bored with it.  When she had anything to say, she liked to say it
straight out, she explained, without twisting it about to make it rhyme
with something just shoved in to fill up the line; and she preferred
other people to do the same.

Yet, perhaps, at that particular moment, had she seen the lines:

_"Ah Love! could thou and I with Fate conspire
To grasp this sorry Scheme of Things entire,
Would not we shatter it to bits - and then
Remould it nearer to the Heart's Desire?"_

In her present mood she might have recognised also the stateliness and
the beauty of a thought transcribed into verse.

Or possibly she would have obstinately asserted there was no occasion
to introduce the word Love at all - and it was no one's Heart's Desire
she wanted, but just a common-sense, reasonable amount of pleasure for
all, and a spring-cleaning of all the gloomy, wooden faces.

In the sitting-room at Bloomsbury she threw her hat down on the sofa,
and ran her fingers through her hair with an almost petulant air.

"I just feel to-night as if it was a rotten old world after all," she
said.

Dudley, sitting poring over some plans with a reading-lamp, looked up
in mild surprise.

"And what has made you feel all that? - not Basil, I'm sure."

"Well, there's no occasion to be so very sure.  I think it's decidedly
rotten where Basil is concerned."

She came and half-sat on one of the arms of his chair, and rested her
hand on his coat-collar.

"I wonder what G would think of a sane man spending his evening ruling
pointless-looking lines on a big sheet of paper?"

"And who may 'G' be?"

"I hardly know - except that she's the quaintest person I've ever
struck yet - and I've seen some funny ones."

"Oh, I know who you mean.  Yes; she is an oddity.  Well, how was every
one.  How was Doris?"

"I hardly know.  She was not there when I arrived, and she did not come
in until a few minutes before Ethel."

"I wonder where she was?" thoughtfully.  "I asked her to come for tea
and a walk in the Park to-day, and she said she could not leave Basil."

Hal looked keenly into his face, and immediately he smiled and said:

"I suppose the tenant opposite was free unexpectedly, and Doris was
able to get out after all.  Poor little girl.  I'm glad.  But I wonder
she didn't telephone me."

Hal turned away, feeling a little sick at heart.

Were they all then in the maelstrom of this gloomy sense of an
engulfing cloud?  What could be the meaning of Doris's behaviour?  Did
Dudley suspect anything?  Certainly he had been a good deal preoccupied
of late, and spoken very little of the future.

She looked  out of her window across the blue of London lights, and her
thoughts roved a little pitifully across the wide reaches of her own
small world.  From Sir Edwin,  with his high post in the nation's
councils, and Lorraine with her brilliant atmosphere of success and
triumph, to the dingy block of flats in Holloway, where, in spite of
almost tragic circumstances, to quote Basil, they had "lots of fun"
among themselves.

She believed he meant it, too.  It was no empty phrase.  Rather
something in touch with Life's great scheme of compensations, which she
manipulates in her own great way, beyond the comprehension of puny
humans.

Certainly neither Sir Edwin nor Lorraine could boast of "lots of fun."
Rather, instead, much care and worry and brain-weary grappling with
problems of modern succesful conditions.

She wondered, with a still further sinking at heart, if perhaps the
time had come when she would have to grapple too.  Was it very likely,
after their delightful friendship, and after that confession of his the
previous Saturday, Sir Edwin was prepared tamely to give her up?  In
her heart, she knew him better.

And yet, if the rumour was not false, what else could result?  Vaguely
she felt it might be one of those problems of modern society, coming
across the evenly flowing river of her life, to demand solution.  Not
the solution of the crowd - to follow a beaten track is rarely
difficult - but her own individual solution, which might mean much
warfare of spirit and weary heartache.    The foregoing of an alluring
pleasure she deeply longed to take - not for any reward nor any gain,
but solely for the sake of the mysterious power abroad in the world
which is called Good; and which demands of the Present Hour that it is
ready to crucify itself and its deep desires for the sake of the Future.





CHAPTER XXXIV


As the days of that new spring-time crept on, it appeared that the
shadow descending upon Hal's little world had come to stay.

Things happened with surprising quickness, and each happening was of
that particular order which presents itself enshrouded in gloom, and,
with a pitilessness which is almost wanton, refuses to allow one gleam
of the sunshine, carefully wrapped up in its gloomy folds, to send a
single glad ray of hope to those wrestling in its sinister grip.

One knows the sunshine may possibly be hidden there somewhere -
sunshine always is hidden in each event somewhere - but what is the use
of expecting it weeks or months or years hence, when it seems that one
single ray now would be of more help than a whole sun in some vague,
distant future?

May it not be that in the development needed to fit the individual for
the full and glad enjoyment of the sunshine to come, a ray of light
would blur the film, and spoil the picture instead of producing one
that is strong, clear and beautiful?

So, a dauntless belief in the sunshine to come, without a ray to
promise it, may make for greater perfectness through steadfast courage
than had one beam crept through to lessen the need for effort and for
strong enduring.

Yet it was strange that the grim hand of destiny should strike at so
many in that little world at the same time, and that its blows should
be of that intimate nature which allows of no speech, even to one's
dearest friend.

Lorraine knew that the rumour of Sir Edwin Crathie's engagement was an
admitted fact; but she did not know how hard it hit Hal.  She could
only have learnt by accident, and, because of events in her own life,
she was out of the line of such a discovery.

Hal knew that Lorraine, after a nervous breakdown, had gone somewhere
into the country for a week or so, and that Alymer Hermon had run down
later to see how she was getting on, and if he could do anything for
her, but of the almost tragic circumstances that led up to his action
she knew nothing, and imagined the merest generous attention.

She saw also the preoccupied, aged look growing on Dudley's face, and
knew that the shadow was over him too.

Ethel saw the change creeping over Basil as no one else saw it, and
knew that not even the far future could shed a single gleam for her
upon the darkness coming.

Yet - for life is oversad to dwell upon rayless darkness even in books
- bright, enduring, beautiful sunshine was wrapped up in those black
clouds to flood the little world with joy at the appointed hour.

It was Lorraine's life that events moved first.  After Hal left her,
she spent a wretched, restless, brain-racking afternoon, and was only
just able to struggle through her part at night.

And afterwards she became suddenly sickened with the need to struggle.
She was not extravagant by nature, and had saved enough money from her
enormous salaries to liver very comfortably if she chose.

A nausea of the theatrical world and its incessant demands began to
obsess her.  She felt that from the first day she stood in a manager's
office, seeking the chance to start, it had given her everything except
happiness.

Money, success, position, jewels, fine clothes, admirers, friends,
adventures, gaieties - all these had come, if by slow degrees, but not
one single gift had contained the kernel of happiness.

Perhaps it was her own fault.  Perhaps the trouble lay in the wrong
start she had made and never been able to retrieve.  But at least there
was time to try another plan yet.

Finally, feeling the nerve strain of recent events was seriously
affecting her health, she decided to arrange a week's holiday to think
the matter out.

But then what of Alymer?

Nothing had changed her mood since his uncle paid his ill-chosen visit.
 She did not actually intend to try to influence Alymer against his
people, but she did intend that he should not change to her, nor pass
out of her life, if she could help it.

Because she, and she alone, had started him off on his promising
career, she meant to be there to watch it for some time to come.  Her
influence might not any longer be actually needed.  The devine fire to
achieve had already lit into a steady flame in his soul, and her
presence would make very little difference in future.  He had tasted
the sweets of success, and ambition would not let him reject all that
the future might hold.

But she must be there to see.  In her lonely life he meant everything
now.  There was no need for him to think of marriage for years yet; and
in the meantime she felt her claim upon him was as strong as any
mother's fears.

So she waited for his next visit, wondering much what would transpire
if he had heard of his uncle's call.

As it happened, he had.  In the interview he had sought with his aunt,
to request her not to interfere in his affairs, the indignant lady
hurled at him the story of the visit; or such garbled account of it as
she had received from the participator himself.

That was quite enough for Alymer - that and Hal's account of Lorraine
in tears.  He felt that his benefactress, his great friend, had been
abominably insulted, and he hastened in all the warmth of his ardour to
her side.

Lorraine was waiting for him in her low, favourite chair,  and when he
first saw her he could not suppress an exclamation to see how frail she
seemed suddenly to have grown.

Her skin of ivory whiteness, enhanced by the tinge of colour in her
cheeks, and there were shadows round her eyes placed there by no
cosmetic art.

All that was most chivalrous, most protective, most affectionate in his
nature rose uppermost, and shone in his face as he said:

"Lorraine, it is too feeble just to say I am sorry.  I heve been
cursing the blunder with all my heart ever since I knew."

"Thas was dear of you," she said; "but of course I knew that you would."

"I hoped so.  I told myself over and over, you must know it had all
happened without my knowledge."

Lorraine had no mind to make light of the matter.  She felt she would
hold him better by simply leaving it alone, and letting his own
feelings work on her side.

She knew of course that his uncle had probably tried to injure her
case; but then, Alymer was a man of the world, and she trusted him,
knowing what he must about his uncle, to judge her kindly.

But all this seemed to fade into nothingness when she saw the distress
and the affection in his eyes - the anger that any one had dared to
hurt her, and the eager wish to make amends.  It made all her
smouldering love leap up into flame, and the strength of the suddenly
roused passion almost frightened her.  She felt there was desperation
in it, the desperation of the drowning man who catches at a straw, of
the condemned man  who seizes a last joy.

Quite unexpectedly a reckless, surging desire began to take possession
of her soul.  She had lost so much already; been hit so many times;
missed so many things.

A picture came back to her, with a new allurement.  The picture of
herself with a little one of her own, floating down the peacefully
flowing river to some quiet haven, far removed from the glare of the
footlights.  Should she make a bold bid to win that much from the years
that were left?

She sat quiet, looking into the heart of the fire while the thoughts
coursed through her brain, and her long lashes hid from the man above
her the glowing dreamlights in her eyes.

Then he too pulled up a low chair and sat down, so that his head was
more nearly on a level with hers, and still his eyes looked at her with
that regretful, protecting expression.

"You must go away, Lorry," he said, using Hal's pet name; "you are
beginning to look thoroughly ill."

"I don't feel well, but I haven't the heart to go alone.  I should only
get melancholia."

"Hal seemed to think I ought to offer you a little companionship."  He
said it with a slightly bashful air.

"Hal?..." in a sharp, questioning voice.  "What has Hal been saying to
you?"

"Not much.  She was in great form at the Bruces' last night.  She
rubbed it  into me finely on various subjects, and finally went off
with her head in the air to find some one refreshingly ugly who could
talk sense."

They both laughed, but Lorraine's eyes were thoughtful.

"And what did she say about your companionship?"

"Oh, that it was only some one to talk to and be company you wanted if
you went away, and that I seemed to fill the post better than any one
just now."  He paused, then added: "Do I?"

She felt him looking hard into her face, and kept her eyes lowered.
She did not want him to know that the thought of his companionship in
the country was like the straw to the drowning man - the last joy to
the condemned one.

"You always make me forget the years, and feel young," she said slowly
and thoughtfully, "and I dare say that is a very good tonic in itself."

"You oughtn't to need help from any one for that"; and she knew there
was genuine admiration in his voice.  "You never look anything but
young.  I suppose it is temperament."

"Temperatment doesn't erase lines," with a little sad smile.

"Perhaps not, but it makes them, in some way, suit you; and they add to
the character in a face."

"It is sweet of you to say so, Alymer, but it sounds a fairy tale.  I
don't so very much mind growing old, if only it were not so...
empty-handed."

"But surely you have so much!"

"Not very much that counts.  Anyhow, I hope some day you will have a
great deal more."

"You are depressed.  You must really get away somewhere at once."

He was grandfatherly now, the mood she always loved and laughed at, and
her pulses quickened to it.  He placed one of his large, strong-looking
hand over hers - it covered them both out of sight - and he leanded a
little nearer as he said:

"I can see I shall have to take the ordering of it all.  You have done
worlds for me.  Now I shall have to take you in hand."

A harsh expression crossed her face for a moment, thiking of what his
mother had written her.

"And go straight to perdition!" she said bitterly.

He winced a little.

"I'm sure you wouldn't want me to make excuses for my own mother," he
remarked, with the quiet dignity that was aldready winning his name in
the Law Courts, side by side with his gift for light satire.  "You
cannot but know in your heart just how far removed her outlook on the
world is from ours."

She wanted to ask him if any outlook gave one woman the right to insult
another at her pleasure, but she remembered Mrs. Hermon probably dit
not realise that she would have the fineness to see the insult, and was
not even aware that she had been insulting.

"I should like you to know my father," he went on.  "He is a very
understanding man."

"But surely he..."

"No; he knew nothing about it.  When my mother spoke to him he asked
her not to interfere."

"Ah!"

For a few swift moments the generous treatment called to her own
generosity, and for the sake of the understanding father she was almost
ready to let go the straw.  Only then again came the recollection of
the uncle, and his impudent offer to substitute himself, and make
amends at the same time; and again the smouldering fires leaped up, fed
by the strong, protecting touch of the hand upon hers.

"I think Hal was right," Alymer was saying.  "If my companionship, just
to run down and see how you are, wherever you may be, will help to
cheer you up and amuse you, there is no reason why I shouldn't manage
it."

She knew he was making a concession of which he was half-afraid,
because of what he owed her, and while one half of her longed to be
self-sacrificing and release him, the other half fiercely demanded the
straw that yet might save.  And still she said nothing, gazing, gazing,
into the flames.

"What do you think?" he asked.

"I hardly know," with a tired smile.  "Of course I want you, but if -"

"Never mind the 'if'," cheerfully.  "If I promise to run down and see
you, will you go away at once, and try to get well again quickly?"

"It would make a lot of difference."

"Then that settles it.  Can you start to-morrow?"

"I think I could."

Her pulses were leaping fitfull now - leaping and bounding with a swift
delight.  Perhaps he felt it, for he withdrew his hand, and gave
himself a little shake, as if warding off something dangerous.

"Where will you go?" in a matter-of-fact voice.

"I hardly know, but I like the sea.  Any little place that is warm in
the spring.  I might as well motor down, so it doesn't matter about
trains, and the motor can come back for you."

"Shall I bring any one else?" his eyes searched her face.

"Just as you like."  She leant forward and casually stirred the fire.
"Anyhow, there is sure to be plenty of room at this time of year."

"Plenty of room, but not plenty of available companion chaperones,"
with a little laugh.

"Then we should have to make Sydney serve," naming her chauffeur.  She
got up form her seat.

"I suppose I must think about dinner," glancing at the clock.  "Are you
joining me this evening?"

"I can't; I have to go to Morrison's."

"How gay you are!"

"It is diplomatic.  Morrison could get me a brief to-morrow if he
liked."

"There is a very pretty daughter, just out; isn't there?"

"Yes."

"And is she so strikingly lovely?"

"I suppose she is; but she is so full of airs and graces she irritates
one almost past endurance."

"I'm afraid you are a severe critic.  The way is made too smooth for
you."

She had moved near to him again, and stood beside him with one hand
resting lightly on the mantelpiece, and one foot on the fender.  He was
standing as usual with his back to the fire.  He looked down into her
upturned face, fascinating now from a touch of roguishness.

"The splendid knight is hard to please; mere beauty is too commonplace."

"Isn't it sure to be?" a little smile played round his lips as he made
his gallant retort.  "How can mere beauty ever appeal to me, who have
been accustomed to all you have besides?"

"Ah,  flatterer!..." she said softly, and smiled into the fire.

There was a tense moment in which he longed to bend down and kiss her
as he had done when the room was full of violets, but instead he pulled
himself up sharply and moved away.

"Well, I must be off.  Perhaps to-night I shall have the luck to be
able to look at her from a distance, and not strike the jarring note.
I'll try to come in to-morrow to see what you have decided, and then
I'll run down on Friday afternoon for a long week-end, to see that you
are taking decent care of yourself."  As an afterthought he added: "I
suppose Hal couldn't get off?"

"I'll ask her if you like.  She would love it, if she could."

"And keep us amused too.  I should get my head bitten off, but you
could put it on again for me.  Good-bye.  Anyhow, it is a promise that
you will go"; and with rather a hurried farewell, he was gone.

Lorraine remained some moments gazing into the fire, and there was a
softness in her eyes.  She knew perfectly well that he had hurried at
the last moment because when they stood together on the hearth he had
wanted to kiss her.

And she could not help comparing his strength in refraining with what
would have been the action of most of the men she had known, who would
have professed more, and meant less.  She leaned her head down on her
hand, and wondered a little pitifully:

"Why had the best she had ever known come to her too late?"

And then followed the dangerous thought: "Is it indeed too late?"





CHAPTER XXXV


Lorraine was not able to see Hal, but she talked to her on the
telephone, and told her she was going into the country at once, and
Alymer was coming down for the week-end.  "We wondered if you could get
off too.  Do try," she said.

Hal answered at once that she could not manage it this week, but
possibly the next, if Lorraine were still away.

"I've only arranged for a week's holiday," Lorr	aine replied.  "What a
nuisance you should be unable to come this week."

As a matter of fact, Hal was only going out for the day with her cousin
on Sunday, but an urgent little note from Sir Edwin had begged her to
keep Saturday free for him;  and because the suspense was becoming
unendurable, she granted his request, determined to know the truth.

So it happened that Lorraine motored down alone to a quaint little
fishing-village on the south coast, where there was a charming,
old-fashioned, creeper-decked hotel, too far from the railway for the
ordinary week-end tourists, and patronised mainly by motorists in the
summer.

And on Friday the motor went back to town to fetch Alymer, bringing him
down about four o'clock, unaccompanied.

"So Sydney will have to be chaperone after all," Lorraine said lightly.
 "Now, what should you like to do to-morrow?"

"Is there any chance of fishing?"

He asked the question with some diffidence, fearing that it might only
bore her.

Lorraine clapped her hands.

"Exactly what I thought.  We're going to have the jolliest little
fishing-smack imaginable for the whole day; and Sunday too, if you
like; and take our lunch with us, and fish until we are tired."

A glad light leapt to Alymer's eyes.

"By gad!  You are a trump," he said.

In the meantime Hal waited a little feverishly for Saturday.  They were
to have one of their long outings.  Meet at twelve, motor for two
hours, lunch at two, then a walk; back to town to dine, without
changing, in some grill room.

Sir Edwin had mapped it all out beforehand, sitting at his desk, with
an anxious, unhappy expression, unrelieved by the evidences all around
him of what he had achieved - of the proud position that was his.
Indeed he almost wished he could will it all away, and be just an
independent, moderately successful solicitor, able to please himself in
all things; instead of bound by the demands of party and position.

And those demands just now were very exacting.  It was not an easy
party to serve, and the less so in that its ranks numbered many
soldiers of fortune of the swah-buckler type, who meant to hold the
power they had attained partly on the exploitation of a lie, by fair
means or otherwise; even if necessary by further lies - lies upon lies
- but clever, carefully manipulated ones; not bald, childish, outspoken
ones.

One of their most prominent office-holders had recently perpetrated a
lie of the latter type.  Such a barefaced, impudent, obvious lie, that
there was no possibility of covering it up, and the whole country
talked of it.  Music halls laughed at it, comic papers and comic songs
rang with it, election platforms bristled with it.

Naturally the party was very annoyed.  One could imagine them saying
indignantly to the offender: "Lie as much as you like, but for
goodness' sake have the common sense to lie cleverly.  If you can't do
that, better confine yourself to merely distorting facts."

The official in question held a post in the same department as Sir
Edwin - which meant that quite enough opprobrium had been recently
hurled at the Law without risk of any further scandal.

The party was not sufficiently strong for that.  They had fright enough
over a paragraph in the _Church Gazette_, hinting at a lady in
connection with one of their Ministers - where there should be no lady;
but prompt action had steered the ship through those shoals in safety.

But all the same, this business of The Right Honourable Sir Edwin
Crathie and the Stock Exchange had got to be attended to at once.
Under no possible consideration must it leak out that a Cabinet
Minister had been speculating so heavily, and lost to such an extent,
that nothing but an immense sum of money could save him from disgrace,
bankruptey, and ruin.

One friend and another had tided him over for some little time, but he
had continued to be reckless and incautious, relying with an unpleasant
sneer upon his title.

"Oh well!" had been his conclusion; "if the worst comes to the worst, I
can always sell my name to an heiress."

Finally, that unhappy condition had arrived.  It had further choses the
worst possible moment - the moment when the music halls and comic
papers were waxing hilarious over the badly executed lie.

Sir Edwin had been summoned to a consultation that had been the reverse
of pleasant.  The only thing was that the way of escape had been
thoughtfully  planned for him.  He had no need to hunt up the heiress
for himself.  She was considerately provided.

Miss Bootes' father was a wealthy Liberal, who had more than once
generously supplied funds to the party, in return for some small favour
he craved.  Now he wanted a celebrity, with a title, for his daughter.
Sir Edwin hardly came up to the required standard, but Mr. Bootes was
easily persuaded that there was absolutely no limit to his
possibilities, were he once set on his feet as far as money was
concerned.

The Prime Ministership, followed by a Peerage, were in his certain
grasp, had he but the necessary money to back him.

Papa Bootes said over an over to himself: "My daughter, Lady Elizabeth
Crathie" (it was really Eliza, but had been discreetly changed to suit
the fashion), and came to the conclusion that a Cabinet Minister for a
son-in-law sufficiently banished the odorous flavour patent manures had
given to his fortune.

Finally he inquired the amount of Sir Edwin's debts, and promised a
cheque if the delicate little matter were settled.

Hence the consultation, and the polite but firm intimation that Sir
Edwin must close with the offer - that he had not even the right to
choose ruin instead, because of its effect on the party.

And of course, now the crisis had come, Sir Edwin did not want to close
with the offer.  In his own mind he consigned the party, and all
belonging to it, to the very worst hell of Dante's Inferno.

But, beyond relieving his mind a little, their imaginary exodus did not
help him in the least.  He found himself in the very undesirable
position of furnishing a telling example of the utter impossibility of
serving two masters.

To do his common sense justice he had never had the least intention of
attempting to.  Without any prevarication as far as his own feelings
were concerned, he had quite honestly chosen to serve Mammon.  Having
decided thus far, he banished the very memory of any other possible
master.  He did not exist for him.  Mammon, in that it meant place, and
power, and money, was the only god he wanted to serve.

And now? -

Well, of course, the Little Girl must go.  At first he said it harshly,
shrugging his shoulders and pursing his lips.  It had only been a
pastime all through, and, thanks to her owon pluck and sense, it had
been one of those rare, delightful pastimes that, ended suddenly, might
leave only a gracious, enjoyable memory behind.  He was glad of that.

Somewhere in his heart, that was mostly impressionless india-rubber,
there had proved to be a healthy, flesh-and-blood spot after all.  She
had found it quickly - gone straight to it with the unerring directness
of a little child.  It existed still - would always exist for her.

But in future the india-rubber would have to close over it, and hide it
from all chance of discovery.  In future he must not even remember it
himself.  For that way lay weakness.  No serving of Mammon could be
achieved, whichever way he turned, with the frank, candid, clever
Little Girl.

And so she must go; and since it was inevitable, the sooner the better.

Then had come the afternoon's golf; and, without asking himself why, he
had hidden from her that there was any change.  Afterwards, because the
impending finale made him desire her as he had never desired her
before, he went into the pretty little sitting-room and kissed her.

When he hurriedly departed, he remembered only that the kiss had been
sweet.  Also that evidently no rumour had reached her yet.  But of
course it would.  Any moment of any day her newspaper office might get
the news and publish it.

He spent a wretched week, torn mercilessly by his desire to serve two
masters.  In the end, because he was a man who hated to be thwarted, he
swore a violent oath, and said that he would.

Then he sent Hal the urgent little note, and made his plans for the
day.  They all hinged largely upon his hope to get her to go to his
flat in Jermyn Street, after that grill-room dinner.  That was why when
they met he cleverly took the bull by the horns directly he saw in her
eyes that she had heard the news.  He appealed, with insight, to her
sense of humour.

"If you look at me like that," he said, "I shall punish you by sitting
down here, in St. James's Park, on the curbstone, and giving you an
explanation before all London that lasts an hour."

"I've a great mind to keep you to it," with her low, musical laugh,
"and send Peter to bring a phonograph man with a blank record to take
it down."

"And a dozen journalists with snap-shot cameras, and biograph
apparatus, to link us in notorious publicity to all eternity."

"No; I couldn't stand that.  What is your alternative?"

"A long, perfect day in this heavenly sunshine, pretending anything in
the world you like that will make us forget the stale, boresome, old
week-day world.  Then, at the end of it, the unfolding of a glorious
plan that is an explanation in itself."

Hal looked doubtful, and seemed to cogitate.  He waited in an anxiety
he could scarce conceal, watching her mobile,  sensitive face.  Finally
the sunshine and the light-hearted carelessness made the strongest
appeal, and she gave in.

"Very well.  If it had been dull and cloudy I would not have agreed.
But one daren't trifle with sunshine.  We'll take our fill of it while
it lasts."

So it happened that their last long day was one of the best they had
known - each being clever enough to carry out the suggested programme
and banish the following cloud for the time.

Hal was a little feverish - a little gayer than usual, with some hidden
strain; a little pathetically anxious to act an indifference she could
not possibly feel, concerning that rumour, and throw herself heart and
soul into their compact of forgetting everything for a little while
except the sunshine and the exhilarating dash through a spring-decked
England.

In some places the hedges were white with hawthorn; and in sheltered
nooks they sped past primroses, like pale stars in the grass.  There
were plantations of feathery, exquisite larch trees, their lovely green
enhanced by tall dark pines, standing among them like sentinels.  In
gay gardens joyous daffodils nodded and laughed to them as they whirled
past.  Sir Edwin ventured an appreciative remark.

"Don't talk," Hal said.  "Pretend you are in a worldwide cathedral, and
it is the great annual festival of spring."

"May I sing?" he asked humorously.

"No; not as you value your life.  We have only to listen to the choir.
Hush, don't you hear the birds singing the grand spring 'Te Deum'!"

But after a time she spoke herself.

"Was it all like this on Thursday night - all these delicious scents
and sights and sounds cast broadcast, for all who passed to enjoy?"

"I expect so.  Why?"

The kindliness in the quizzical grey eyes was amazing, as he sat back,
watching her with covert insistence, instead of the spring glories.
How the divine spark changes a man for the brief moments when it
reigns!  Banishing utterly Stock Exchange scandals, convenient
heiresses, exacting parties, the merciless claims of the god Mammon.
He might have looked just so, years and years ago, before he entered
that hard service, and buried all his best under layer upon layer of
harsh, deadening, world-wise grasping.  Pity that the best is so frail
to withstand the onslaught of the demons of power and place - so easily
overcome and thrust away probably for ever.

"I was up in Holloway.  I suppose you know it?  And there was a strong
man dying a helpless invalid, and his sister breaking her heart, and a
woman from the opposite flat, who said she stood for nothing in the
world but a letter of the alphabet.  And all round was gloom, and murk,
and shabbiness, and hard, pitiless facts.  I came home in the tube, and
all the passengers seemed to look like lifeless, starved, white-faced
mummies.  They made me feel frightened.  I wondered where joy had fled
to.

"And here, was it just like this all the time? ... flowers, and sweet
scents, and spring, and hopefulness? ... And scarcely any one to enjoy
it all; while those white-faced, vacant mummies were journeying
foolishly to and fro in that stuffy, detestable tube."

"You shouldn't go to such places.  What have you to do with Holloway,
and shabbiness, and starving people?  If you belonged to me, I wouldn't
let you go."

"Of course I have to do with them.  We all have.  But I don't know
what.  And it frightens me.  I don't think I've ever felt frightened
before.  It was like being brought up sharp against a stone wall."

His lips were suddenly a little stern.  Stone walls had to be broken
down.  That was the use of being strong.  One was not frightened; one
just got a battering-ram, and forced a passage through.  He would tell
her soon, but not out here.  Not just yet.

"You are forgetting our compact.  I'm surprised at you, Hal.  I call it
a slight on the sunshine."

"Why, so it is! ...  Avaunt, and leave my mind, Holloway!  This day
belongs to the spring."

And until they drew up outside the Criterion Grill, she kept her
spirits high, and gave herself to the joy of the hour.





CHAPTER XXXVI


When they were half-way through dinner Hal asked, a trifle abruptly:

"Now, what about this piece of news?  What does it mean?"

He looked away, unable to meet her candid eyes, and said:

"I will tell you presently."

"Where?  Why not now?  Why all this secrecy?"

"Because it is rather a big matter.  You have sometimes said you would
like to see the horns and trophies I brought back from my shooting-trip
in Canada.  Come and see them this evening."

"At your flat?" doubtfully.

"Yes.  Why not?"

Hal knit her forehead and looked perplexed.  She had so insistently
declined to go hitherto, that she was loth now to change her mind.  Yet
she felt it was rather silly to have any fear of him now.

In the end she went.

It was only eight o'clock, and he promised to take her home about nine.
 Besides, something in his manner was baffling her, and she wanted to
understand how they stood.

Once in the sumptuous, beautifully furnished flat, however, he seemed
to change.  He came up to her suddenly, put his arms round her, and
kissed her.

"At last," he breathed.  "At last I've got you absolutely to myself."

"Don't do that."

Hal disengaged herself and held him at arm's length.  For a moment she
looked steadily into his eyes, and then she asked:

"How has this report of your engagement got into the papers?"  Her lips
curled a little.  "I presume you would hardly act to me like this if it
is true."

"It is true in one sense, and not another."

"Oh..."  She seemed a little taken aback.  "In what way is it true.
Are you engaged to Miss Bootes?"

"Yes."

"Indeed!"

She lifted her eyebrows, and moved a pace or two farther away.

"Don't move away from me," he said a little thickly.  "It isn't the
part that's true which matters, but the part that is not true."

"I don't understand."

"I brought you here to explain.  I can do so very quickly.  I am in a
tight corner.  The tightest corner I ever was in my life.  Only one
thing can save me.  I must have money.  Miss Bootes, or at any rate her
father, wants a title.  I haven't the shadow of a choice.  I have got
to sell her mine."

Again Hal's lips curled, and a little spark of fire shone in her eyes.
+-

""Oh, I can understand all that!"  She tossed her head
half-unconsciously.  "But why" - her lips quivered a little - "did you
think it necessary to insult both of us by, at the same time, becoming
lover-like to me?"

"I told you why; because I love you."

He stepped up to her, and caught both her hands in an iron grip.

"Now, listen to me, Hal.  Don't try to break away, for I won't let you
go.  I tell you it's a matter of life and death.  In your heart you
know quite well that I love you.  You knew it when I kissed you last
Saturday, and you were glad.  I don't know when you read that
announcement, but whenever it was, your heart said to you 'Whether it's
true or not, he loves _me_'.  Probably you didn't believe it was true,
because you knew nothing whatever about the devilish mess I was in.
But in any case, your heart told you right.  I do love you.  I love you
with every bit of me that knows how to love.  If I have to be hers in
name, I am at any rate yours at heart, and shall be all my life.  Noew,
what have you to say?"

She tried to drag her hands away, but he gripped them tightly, forcing
her to feel his strength, his resolve, and his masterfulness.

"I have nothing to say.  What should I have?  You have elected to sell
yourself, to let a woman" - with swift scorn - "buy you out of a tight
corner.  I... I... " in a low tense voice, "am sorry we ever met."

"Why? -"

He hurled the monosyllable at her, now almost crushing her hands in his
grasp, as he waited, silently compelling her to reply.

"Because the friendship was pleasant.  It has meant a good deal.  And
now for it to end like this!...  for me to have to scorn you."

"Why need it end?...  Why should you scorn me?...  Wouldn't every
second man you know in my place act exactly as I am acting?  I have no
choice.  I ought not to tell you, but my political chiefs have issued
an ultimatum to me, and I have got to obey it.  Do you suppose I would
consider it for a moment if I could find any other way out?  Do you
suppose I would risk losing you, would even dream of giving you up, if
I were not driven to it by the very hell-hounds of circumstance?
To have felt love at all is the most wonderful thing in my life: I, who
have always mocked and jeered and disbelieved.  Well, anyhow it is
there now.  Listen, Hal.  I love you.  I love you?  _I love you_."

He tried again to kiss her, but she wrenched at her hands, held in his
grip.

"Let me go.  You... you... to talk of love.  You don't know what it is.
 Let me go... let me go - "

"I won't. By God, you shan't speak to me like that.  I won't endure it."

He was evidently losing control of himself a little, and the sight of
it steadied her.  Behind all her bravado and pluck there was a terrible
ache.  Caught in a mesh of circumstances, she knew she could not
struggle out without being grievously hurt at heart.  She knew that,
however she loathed his action now, she could not unlove him all in a
moment.

When he scorched and seared her with his passionate declaration, her
heart cried out that she wanted him to love her, that she wanted to be
his.  And yet stronger and higher and better than all, was that woman's
instinct in her soul which loathed his action and clung wildly in the
stress of the moment to its own best ideal.

In the swift sense of hopelessness that followed, great tears gathered
in her eyes, and welled over on to her cheeks.  They had an immediate
effect upon him.  He let go her hands.

"Don't cry, Hal, don't cry," he said a little huskily.

"I can't stand that."

She brushed the tears away almost angrily, but, ignoring his motion to
draw up an arm chair, remained standing, straight and slim beside the
hearth, trying to recover her composure.

Sir Edwin commenced to pace the room.  He had succeeded in his scheme
so far as to get Hal to the flat to discuss the projects in his mind,
but now that she was there he felt at a loss to proceed.  He wished she
would sit down; he changed his mind and almost whished she would cry;
standing there, like a soldier on guard, with that direct, fearless
expression, she disconcerted him, by making him feel mean and paltry
and small.

And all the time he could not choose but admire her more and more.  He
wished with all his heart in those moments that he could throw his
position and his party overboard, and go to her with a clean slate, and
say:

"I have done with serving Mammon.  Come to me as my wife, and I will
serve you instead."

And instead he had brought her there to say:

"I cannot give up serving Mammon.  I must marry the heiress, but let me
be your lover and I will serve you as well."

And all the time Hal stood there with those resolute, set lips, as
erect as a young grenadier.

But all the same he meant to have her if he could, and he remembered of
old how often he had found a swift, bold attack won.  So he stopped
short beside her, and said:

"You know that whatever circumstances compel me to do, all my heart is
yours, Hal, and you care a little bit about me.  You know you do.
Don't condemn me to outer darkness.  Come to me like the sensible
little woman you are.  No one will ever know, and I can make your life
gayer and happier just as long as ever you like."

She looked at him with a startled, perplexed expression.

"What do you mean?" she asked slowly.

"Now, don't get angry."

He laid his hand on her arm, with a caressing touch.

"You've knocked about the world too much not to know what I mean.  You
know perfectly well half the girls you know would let themselves be
persuaded.  But that isn't what I want.  I've too much respect for your
strength of character.  Come to me because you can be strong enough to
rise above conventions and because you dare to be a law unto yourself.
It is the courage I expect of you.  Hal, my darling, who is ever to be
any the wiser if you and I are lovers?  Think what I can do for you to
make life gay and interesting and fresh.  Don't decide in a hurry.  If
no one ever knows, no one need be hurt."

She moved away from him, and went and stood by the window, looking down
at the passing lights in St. James's Street; looking at the lights in
the windows opposite, looking at the faint light of the stars overhead.

It was characteristic of her that she did not grow angry and indignant;
nor, in a theatrical spirit, immediately attempt to impress him with
the fact that she was a good, virtuous woman, and that his suggestion
filled her with horror.  Her knowledge of life was too wide, her
understanding too deep.

She knew that to such a man as he a proposal of this kind did not
present any shocking aspect whatever.  When he said, "Be a sensible
little woman," he meant it to the letter.  He actually believed she
would show common sense in yielding to him, and taking what joy out of
life she could.

But, unfortunately for the world in general, it is not only the
horror-struck, conventional, shocked women who resolutely turn their
eyes from the primrose path.  There are plenty of large-hearted,
broad-minded women, who, seeing the world as it is, instead of how the
idealists would have it, are content to go on their own strong way,
fighting their own battle for themselves without saying anything, and
without judging the actions of others, content in striving to live up
to their own best selves.

Hal was one of these.  If another girl in her place had yielded to the
alluring prospect of possessing such an interesting lover as Sir Edwin,
to brighten the commonplace, daily round, she would not have blamed
her, she would have tried not to judge her.

But she would have been sorry for her in many ways, knowing how apt the
primrose path is to turn suddenly to thorns and stones; and in an hour
of need she would have stood by her if she could.

But the fact of possessing these wide sympathies did not lessen any
obligation she felt to herself.  It was her creed to "play the game" as
far as in her lay, and according to her own definition.

That definition did not admit of any irregularity of this kind.  It
called, instead, sternly and insistently for absolute denial.  It told
her now, without the smallest shadow of doubt, that from to-night she
must never see Sir Edwin again.  She must take whatever interest he had
brought out of her life, and go back to the old, monotonous round.

It was useless to question or reason.  The decree was there in her own
heart.  The insistent call to keep her colours flying high, as she
fought her way through the pitfalls of life to the Highest and Best.

As she paced the room behind her, disclosing a carefully thought-out
plan, now pleading, now expostulating, she heard him rather as one afar
off.

The plan did not matter one way or another.  If she could have let
herself go at all she would not have troubled about plans.  His
pleading and expostulating she scarcely heard.

She was looking out at all the lights, and her mind was grappling with
problems.  How harsh the glare of the streets appeared to-night.  How
far, far away the pin-points that were stars.  Hal liked a city.

Constellations hanging like great lamps in wonderful, wilderness skies
would have wearied her quickly.  She loved people, and she liked them
all about her.  But to-night she felt suddenly very near to the dark,
shadowy side of life - very far from the stars of light.

She glanced up at the pin-points a little wistfully.  If perhaps they
were nearer with their message of high striving; if perhaps the glare
at hand were less harsh, there might be so much more steadfast courage
in the world; so much less weak acceptance of conditions that led to
pain and misery and disaster.

At last he stood beside her, and implored her to tell him, once for
all, that she would yield and come.

But when he saw into the clear depths of her eyes, he knew his hopes
were vain.

Suddenly, with swift self-distrust, his mood softened.

"I suppose I've shocked you past forgiveness now," he said miserably.
"You'll think I've been an brute to you, and you'll never forget it."

"No; I shan't think that; but I should like to go home at once."

"But surely that is not your last word!"

"What else is there so say?  I... I... can't do that sort of thing.
That is all.  From to-day you must go your way, and I must go mine.  It
is useless to discuss it.  Let me go home."

"But you can't mean it," he cried.  "Surely we are not to part like
this."

She had moved back into the room now, and was pulling on her gloves.

"What else can we do?"

"But you care for me, Hal.  You can't deny it.  You do care a little;
don't you?"

She looked into his eyes without a tremor, but with a pain at the back
of hers that made him flinch.

"Yes, I care," she said very quietly.

"Ah!"

Suddenly he sat down, and buried his face in his arms on the table.
Every good, honest trait he possessed called to him to throw "Mammon"
to the winds, and make her happy.  Let the party take care of itself.
It was not for his nobility of character they had taken him into the
Cabinet.  Let his creditors do their worst - a strong man could win
through anything.  But the mood did not last.  There was not enough
room in that india-rubber heart for it to expand and grow.  It died for
want of breathing-space.

"If you care, why can't you have the courage to come to me?" he asked a
little fiercely.

"Because I have the courage to stay away."

And he knew - hardened sinner that he was - that she named the greater
courage.

But his goaded feelings called to him, and drove him, making him mad
with the knowledge he must lose her.

"Heroics!..." he said - "heroics!...  Don't talk like a
bread-and-butter miss, Hal.  It is unthinkable of you."

He got up from his chair and took a step towards her, but stood
irresolute - daunted by the calm strength in her face.

"The world is too old for heroics any more.  Every one laughs at them.
Where is the politician to-day who cares tuppence for anything but the
main chance?  We blazon our way into office, and we blazon louder still
to keep there.  It is the spirit of the age.  The strong man takes what
he wants, and holds it by right of his strength.  In primeval times we
used fists and clubs.  Now we hit with brains and words or hard cash.
That is all the difference.  The strong man is still the one who takes
what he wants, and keeps it.  And I want you, Hal.  It is mere
feebleness - childishness - to be thwarted by convention and
circumstance.  Hoodwink convention, and stamp on circumstance.  Go
through stone walls with a battering-ram.  As long as the world doesn't
know - who cares?  Those are my sentiments.  They have been for years.
When I want a thing, I go for it bald-headed, and take it."

He drew nearer boldly, refusing to be daunted, putting all his strength
and determination against hers.

"And I want you, Hal.  Do you understand?  Don't be a little fool.
Come."

She backed away from him towards the door.

"I understand well enough," she said quietly, "and I shall never see
you again if I can help it.  All that you say does not appeal to me in
the least.  I am not a politician - thank God - and I am still
old-fashioned enough to possess an ideal.  I am going now.  Good-bye."

But when he saw she was already in the little hall, a wave of fierce
desire seemed to catch him by the throat.

"Not yet," he exclaimed hoarsely: "Not yet...  I care and you care -
you cannot go yet -"

But before he reached her, she had slipped through the front door, and
shut it behind her, and run down the stairs out into the street.





CHAPTER XXXVII


All through the next day, while motoring with her cousin Dick Bruce,
Hal made a valiant effort to appear exactly as usual; but all the fresh
spring countryside now seemed to mock her with its sudden emptiness,
and the very engine of the motor throbbed out to her that something had
gone from her life which would not come back any more.

She chatted away to Dick manfully, about all manner of things, but in
the pauses of their chatter she was silent  and still in a manner quite
unlike her old self - reattending with a start, and sometimes so
distraite she did not hear when he spoke to her.

After a time Dick began to notice, and then purposely to watch, and
finally he perceived all her gaiety was forced, and sometimes was
weighing heavily on her mind.

It was useless to say anything while they motored, so he gave all his
attention to his driving, and purposely allowed the conversation to
drop.

When they returned to Bloomsbury he went in to supper with her, as was
his habit, and, as he hoped, Dudley was away up at Holloway.  It was
not until they had finished their meal, and the landlady had cleared
away, that he attacked the subject; then, with characteristic
directness, he said:

"Now, Hal, what's the matter?"

"The matter?..." in surprise.  "What can you mean, Dick?  Why should
anything be the matter?"

She tried to meet his eyes frankly, but before the searching inquiry in
them her gaze dropped to the fire.

"Something is the matter, Hal.  Just as if I shouldn't know."

She was thoughtful a moment or two, thinking how best to put hi off the
right scent; then with overpowering suddenness came the recollection of
all the pleasure and interest and delight the lost friendship had stood
for, and her eyes filled with tears.  It was useless to attempt to hide
them, so she contrived to say as steadily as possible:

"I am a bit down on my luck about something; but it's nothing to worry
about.  Don't take any notice; there's a dear boy.  I shall soon
forget."

"But why shouldn't I take any notice?  Don't be a goose, Hal.  Tell me
what's the matter."

She was silent, and after a pause he added:

"I suppose it is Sir Edwin?"

Hal felt it useless to prevaricate, and so she said, with assumed
lightness:

"Well, it has been a little sudden, and we had some jolly times
together."

"Then he is engaged?"

"Yes."

She told him briefly why.  Dick watched her with a question in his eyes.

"Did he deliberately get engaged to the other girl, knowing he cared
for you?" he asked.

Hal tried to lie.

"Oh, there was nothing of that sort between him and me.  We were just
good pals.  But of course it can't go on the same."

"You're not a clever liar, Hal," he said, with a little smile.

She coloured and bit her lip, with an uneasy laugh.  Then the tears
shone again.

"Better tell me about it.  Perhaps I can lend a hand to get through
with."

Hal placed her hands on the mantelshelf, and leaned her forehead down
on them.

"Tell me something funny, Dick, or I shall howl in a few seconds.
Don't be serious.  Be idiotic.  Have the carrots and turnips decided
which take precedence yet?  Is her ladyship, the onion, weeping upon
the cabbage's lordly bosom?  Are the babies talking philosophy over
their bottles?  For Heaven's sake, Dick, be idiotic, and make me laugh."

"I think it would do you more good to cry."

"Oh, no, no: I hate to cry.  Do help me not to."

But Dick understood the relief it was to a woman to have it out, and he
just sat down in Dudley's big arm chair, and reached the favourite
footstool for Hal.

"Sit on the stool of confessional, and I'll make you laugh later on.
If you don't cry now, you will when I've gone."

Hal sat on the footstool, and leaning against his knee, cried quietly
for several minutes.  He played with an unruly strand of hair until she
dried her eyes, and then said:

"When we were kids, you always told me when things went wrong with you.
 Tell me all about it now."

"I left off being a kid about a month ago.  I'm ancient history now";
and she tried to smile through her tears.

"Why?"

"Oh, just because - " and then her voice broke suddenly.

"I suppose Sir Edwin was in love with you?"

She did not reply.

"And he was obliged to marry the other woman for the money."

He was thoughtful for some moments, and then added:

"All the same, when a man like that goes so far as to love a woman,
which must be a pretty novel experience for him, he doesn't let her go
lightly.  He won't let you go lightly, Hal."

"I shall not see him again."

"Has it come to that already?"

"It had to.  There was no other course."

"It sounds rather sudden and drastic."  He watched her keenly.  "A man
like that would try to get both of you.  Did he try, Hal?"

The hot blood rushed to her face, and she turned her head away.

"Well, he would think it the obvious, sensible course, I suppose, and
perhaps a good many women would, too.  What did you think, Hal?"

"I didn't think.  I hurried away.  I shall not see him any more at all."

He looked at her with a light in his eyes.

"Bravo," he said; and there was a low thrill in his voice.  "He'll
think the world more of you, Hal."

"I'm not sure; anyhow, it doesn't help very much."

"Then you wanted to go."

She stared into the fire and was silent.

"I see," he said simply.  "You are one of the women who would have
dared, only...  of course I knew you wouldn't, Hal.  And, if you had, I
shouldn't have been the one to blame you."

"Yes," she told him, still staring at the fire.  "I could have dared
under some circumstance.  But not these.  Never under pretty, ignoble
ones.  I think that all makes it worse.  There were two Sir Edwins.
There was one I knew, and another the world knew.  It was the other
that triumphed.  Mine will never come back.  It is all finished."

She bowed her head down on her arms.

"Oh, Dick," she said.  "I shall miss him badly."

"But I'm glad you let him go, Hal."  He spoke in a quiet voice full of
feeling.  "Most men are pretty casual and indifferent nowadays, and we
often say we like a woman to be broad-minded, and daring, and all that;
but, by Jove! when we know she's straight as a die, without being a
prude, we're ready to kneel down to her.

"Stand to your guns, Hal.  I... I... want to go on knowing that you are
among those one wants to kneel down to.  If he is very persistent and
persevering, and it gets harder, I dare say I can help.  You can always
'phone me at a moment's notice, and I shall consider myself at your
beck and call."

"You are a dear, Dick, but I shall not see him.  He can only wait for
me at the office, and I shall go out the back way."

"Still, if you're rather lost there are lots of things we might to to
fill up the time.  I've been going down East with Quin lately.  It's
awfully interesting.  Especially with him - he's so splendid with the
most hopeless characters.  There's a sing-song at one of the clubs on
Wednesday eve.  Come down with us.  You'll see Quin at his very best."

"I'd love to come.  Will you fetch me?"

"I'll fetch you from the office, and we'll have a sort of meat-tea meal
at the Cheshire Cheese.  Perhaps Quin will join us."

So they sat on and talked in the firelight till it was time for Dick to
go; and all the time Hal was unconsciously drawing strength and
resolution from him for the fight that lay ahead of her.

Many years ago when she broke her dolls he had tried to mend them and
comfort her.  And now, because he was a simple, manly gentleman,
blessed with the precious gift of understanding - when she was feeling
heart-broken he tried with all the old, generous affection to help to
heal the wound, and bring her consolation.

And away on the southern shore, where a little fishing-village nestled
in the cliffs, and a creeper-covered hotel awaited sleepily the coming
of the summer and the summer visitors, Lorraine came to what she deemed
her hour - the one great hour left - and, as a drowning man, caught at
her straw.  Two long perfect days they had spent on the sea, with an
old fisherman, full of anecdote, and his young grandson to sail the
boat.

Then came the dreamy twilight hour, and their utter loneness; and
Alymer, with the strong, swift blood in his veins, and the strong lust
of life in his heart, lost himself, as she meant that he should, in the
intoxicating atmosphere of her charm and fascination.





CHAPTER XXXVIII


When Hal and her cousin emerged from the office the following Wednesday
evening, the first thing Hal saw was Sir Edwin's motor, and Sir Edwin
himself standing waiting for her.  A disengaged taxi was just moving
off, having deposited a fare, and instantly, without a word to Dick,
she sprang into it.  Dick gave a sharp glance round and followed her.

"Tell him where to go," she said.

He directed the chauffeur, and then looked anxiously into her face.
She had turned very pale, and seemed for the moment overcome.

"Sir Edwin's motor?" he asked, and she nodded.

"Shall I call for you every day?" he said at once.

"No.  He can't possibly see me if I go out the other way."  Then she
added: "He won't go on for long.  He was there yesterday, but he did
not see me; and after to-day I dare say he will give it up."

Finally she added, with an effort:

"I heard this morning the wedding is already fixed for June.  It's to
be one of the weddings of the season"; and her lips curled somewhat.

"I'm more sorry for her than for you, Hal," he said quietly.  "You've a
lot of splendid years before you yet.  Heaven only knows what's ahead
of her.  I doubt he'll not give her much beside his name for his share
of the bargain."

She made no comment, leaning back in her corner, white and tired.  It
was difficult to imagine anything ever being splendid again just then;
or any man ever seeming other than tame, after Sir Edwin's clever,
virile, interesting personality.

But Dick had judged wisely in suggesting the trip down East.  Anything
West would merely have recalled painful memories.  The East of London
was new to her, and could not fail to be interesting to any one with
Hal's love of her fellows.

They went to a large parish hall, where Quin was in charge for a social
evening of dancing and music.  Factory girls were there in all their
tawdry finery to dance; rough, boisterous youths mostly made fun of
them; tired, white-faced, over-worked middle-aged women sat round the
walls, laughing weakly, but forgetting the drudgery for a little while.
 At one end of the room older men sat and smoked, and looked at
illustrated periodicals.

Hal entered with Quin and Dick on either side of her, and was
immediately accosted by a young lady, with a longer and straighter
feather than most of them, with the remark:

"Hullo, miss!... which of 'em's yer sweet'eart?"

A burst of laughter greeted this sally, but Hal, not in the least
disconcerted, replied:

"Why, both, of course... I'll be bound you've had two at a time often
enough."

The repartee delighted all within hearing, and from that moment Hal was
a brilliant succes at the social evenings.  She only wondered she had
never thought to go before; but perhaps no other moment would have been
just so propitious.

The sudden blank in her life craved some interest that was entirely
new, and made her more ready to receive fresh impressions and create
fresh occupations.  She quickly found real pleasure in teaching the
girls to dance properly, in listening to their outspoken humour, and
soon developed an interest in their varied and vigorous personalities.

As she and Dick went home together that evening he noted joyfully that
a little colour had come back to her face, and there was once more a
genuine gleam in her eyes.

"You liked it?" he asked.

"Immensely."

"It grows on one.  You'll like it better still yet.  Alymer and I have
always rather laughed at Quin, and regarded him as a crank.  But he's
not.  It's just that he loves humanity, and he gets quite close up to
the core of it down there, even if it is half-smothered in vice and
dirt.  I don't believe he'll ever take orders.  It's partly because
he's not a clergyman, and they know it, he's such a success.  To-night,
for instance, there was a big bullying chap trying to spoil all the fun
for the men who wanted to smoke peacefully and look at the books.  Quin
remonstrated, and he turned round and swore violently at him.  To my
surprise, Quin, if anything, outdid him.  I wouldn't have believed Quin
could swear like that.  I'm sure I couldn't myself.  The chap just
looked at him, and tried another oath or two doubtfully.  And Quin said:

"Go on if you like, I'm not nearly through yet.  I can't be a blank,
blank, blank bully, and I don't want to be - it's nothing to be proud
of; but I'm as much of a man as you any day."

"The other chaps laughed then, and the brute slunk off to the other
side of the room."
"I asked Quin about it later, and he said:
"Oh well, you've got to talk to them in their own language, or they
don't listen.  That's the best of not being a clergyman.  Of course one
couldn't very well curse and swear then.  But it's the way to manage
them.  That chap will come to heel in an evening or two, and be
reasonably quiet."

"You hit the right note straight off, Hal.  Quin was awfully pleased.
Talk to them on their own level first, and presently you'll be getting
them struggling up to yours almost without knowing it.  He's
frightfully keen for you to go again."

"I'm going every Wednesday," she said, "and other times as well."

They parted at the door, and Hal went in alone.

The moment she stood in the sitting-room she knew that something had
happened.  Dudley was sitting in his big chair by the fire, holding
neither book nor paper, gazing silently at the flames.

At the table she stood still.

"What's the matter, Dudley?...  What has happened?"

There were a few moments' silence, then, scarcely looking round, he
replied:

"She's gone.  Run away with another man."

"Gone!..." she echoed.  "Gone... with another man! ...  Do you mean
Doris?"

"Yes.  She was married at a Reigstry Office this morning.  A messenger
boy took the letter up this evening, after they had left for the
Continent."

Hal sat down.  It was so violently sudden she felt stunned.  After a
moment Dudley got up and moved aimlessly about the room.

"It's no use attempting to say anything, Hal.  There's nothing to say.
Of course I know you're sorry, and all that, but I'd rather you didn't
say it.  You never liked the engagement, and you never liked Doris.
Probably you were justified, but it doesn't make it any easier for me
now."

"Who has she gone with?"

"I believe he's a South African millionaire."

"Ah! - "

"You had heard of him?..." sharply.

"Only last week, from the tenant opposite.  She did not know I was your
sister, and said something about Doris having two young men, and one of
them was a South African millionaire."

He made no comment, but continued his aimless walk.

"What about Ethel and Basil?" she could not help asking.

"They are terribly upset.  As soon as I had been shown the letter I
went out to make inquiries.  Ethel could not rest for fear everything
was not square.  She wanted to go off after her at once.  But it's all
correct.  I saw the Registrar.  They were properly married, and they
left for Dover at eleven, bound for Paris."

"What in the world will become of Basil?"

He winced visibly.  Doris's flagrant selfishness to Basil hurt almost
more than her faithlessness to himself.

"She stated in the letter that her husband was allowing her a thousand
a year for herself, and she was prepared to pay a housekeeper to look
after Basil and the flat."

"Little beast," Hal breathed under her breath.  "What are they going to
do?" she said aloud.

"The tenant opposite insists upon taking Doris's place.  She was
sitting with him when Ethel got home, and the letter arrived about the
same time.  Nothing else will satisfy her.  She is going to be with him
all day, and only teach in the evenings after Ethel has got back."

"How splendid of her!" involuntarily.

"She hardly seems the kind of person Basil would like, but he appeared
quite pleased.  It may have been a little quixotism.  All he said was:

"What in the world should we have done without you, G; and there! only
a few weeks ago you were wishing you had not been born."

"How like Basil.  All gratitude and understanding as usual.  But it
must have hit him rather hard, Dudley.  Is he all right?"


"I don't know."  The gloom on Dudley's face deepened.  "I thought he
looked very ill, but I could not get Ethel to say much.  She seemed
rather to avoid me.  I don't think she likes me."

Hal was conscious of a little inward smile of gladness.  She had
guessed Ethel's secret long enough ago, and she knew the power of
uncertainty and a little thwarting.  Dudley would naturally try to
break down Ethel's dislike; and perhaps in doing so he would grow to
know her better.

"I think I must try and get up to-morrow," was all she said.  "Ethel is
so reserved.  She will get ill herself if she broods and frets on t he
top of all her work and anxiety."

"Will you?" he asked, with some eagerness.  "Basil loves to see you;
and if he is really worse, I shall get Sir John Maitland to go up and
see him again."

"Of course I'll go.  We may be able to help them between us."

She was just going away upstairs to bed, when the forlorness of
Dudley's attitude, and the thought of her own sore heart before Dick
comforted her, made her lay down her hat again and cross the room to
him.

"Dudley, don't forget you've got me still.  I know I'm very trying
sometimes, but I love you so much more than Doris ever could have."

She sat on the arm of his chair, and played with the lapel of his coat.

"Don't forget about me, Dudley.  If you are just only miserable, I
shall be miserable too."

He looked at her with a sudden greater depth of affection than she had
ever seen.

"I don't forget, Hal.  If it weren't for you, what in the world should
I do now?...  It's no use talking about it, is it?  You will understand
that; but thank God you're still here with me, and we can go on the
same again."

She stooped and kissed him hurriedly, and then left the room, that he
might not see the tears brimming over in her eyes.

The next morning she rang up Lorraine's flat, to know if she had come
back yet.  She was rather surprised when Jean her maid answered.  It
was not like Lorraine to go away without her maid.

"You don't know when to expect her?..." she repeated uncertainly.

"No; Miss Vivian said she might come any day, or she might stay over
another Sunday.  She has the motor with her."

"Is she far from a station?"  Hal asked, contemplating the possibility
of joining her on Saturday if she had not returned.

"About seven miles, I think.  She went down in the car, and is coming
back in it.  I have had one letter, in which she says she is having
lovely weather, and absolute rest, and feeling much better."

"That's good.  Well, if she comes back suddenly will you ask her to
'phone me?  I want to see her."

But neither the next day nor the one after was there any call, and in
reply to a second query on Saturday, Jean said she had only received a
wire that morning saying she was staying until Tuesday.

Hal was a little puzzled that she had not been invited down for the
second week-end, but decided Lorraine must have meant to return and
changed her mind at the last moment, leaving no time to get a message
to her.

A later encounter with Dick, however, puzzled her more than ever.

"Old Alymer is taking quite a long holiday," he said.  "We were
expecting him on Tuesday or Wednesday, but he never turned up.  He was
at the Temple on Thursday, but went away again in the evening."

"I hope Lorraine isn't ill?" she said anxiously; "but of course if she
is, she would have sent for Jean."

"Is he away with Miss Vivian?" Dick asked in some surprise.

"Yes; I made him go," loyally.  "He had scruples, but really they
seemed too silly, and Lorraine looked so ill, and he always has the
knack of cheering her up and doing her good."

Dick looked at her doubtfully.

"I hope you were wise," he said; "but they are rather fascinating
people, you know."

"Oh, nonsense!  Lorraine is quite eleven years older than Alymer, and
she only likes to look at him."

Dick had it in his mind to suggest there had been a far greater
disparity between her and Sir Edwin, but he only said:

"Well, he is good to look at, isn't he?...  and such a dear old chap.
Nothing seems to spoil him.  And of course Miss Vivian has done an
awful lot for him.  If she wanted him to go, he could hardly refuse."

"That's just what I said," with a little note of triumph.  "And Jean
told me Lorraine had said in a letter she was having absolute rest, and
feeling much better."

Yet, when Hal was alone she wondered a little again why Lorraine, after
inviting her for the first Sunday, had said nothing about the second.
It was quite unusual for her not to go for a week-end when Lorraine was
at the sea.

She felt suddenly that they wanted to be alone, yet persuaded herself
it was only because Lorraine had been so tired.





CHAPTER XXXIX


Hal's uneasiness concerning Lorraine and Alymer Hermon was swallowed up
almost immediately on Lorraine's return, by a sudden alarming change in
Basil Hayward.  The first time she went to Holloway after Doris's
elopement, she saw the decided symptoms of change, and her report to
Dudley caused the latter once more, on his own responsibility, to
request Sir John Maitland to pay a visit to the little flat.

Sir John's report was the reverse of reassuring, and they all felt the
end was at hand.  Dudley went to Holloway nearly every evening, and
sometimes stayed until the middle of the night, to sit up with the sick
man.

Hal went from the office in the afternoons, two or three days each
week.  When she was there the tenant from Flat G went home to snatch a
short rest, in case a bad night lay ahead.

Ethel went quietly on her way, looking as if already a sorrow had
wrapped her round before which human aid and human sympathy were
powerless.

She went to the office as usual, and did her usual work, in nervous
dread from hour to hour lest a telephone call should summon her in
haste.  She scarcely spoke to any one but Hal; and not very much to
her; but it was evident in a thousand little ways that she liked to
have her near.

With Dudley a new sort of coldness seemed to have sprung up.  He was
self-conscious ill at ease with her now; anxious to show his sympathy,
yet made awkward by his self-sown notion that he was antagonistic to
her.  Ethel did not notice it very much.  All her thoughts were with
Basil.

Hal saw it and was troubled.  She was afraid the slight
misunderstanding might grow into a barrier that it would be extremely
difficult to break down later on.  However, she could only watch
anxiously at present, and try in small ways to smooth out the growing
difficulty.

Basil himself was the most consistently cheerful of all.  He believed
that he was near the end of his long martyrdom, and that in another
sphere he would be given back his health and strength.

He had seemed very worried at first about Doris and Dudley, but
gradually he became philosophical over it, and hoped the future would
bring united happiness to Dudley and Ethel.  He consigned her to
Dudley's care and Hal's.

To Dudley he merely said:

"I know you'll always be a good friend to chum.  I'm thankful she will
at least have you."

Dudley did not say much in reply, but he looked sufficiently unhappy,
and withal so glad of the service, that it spoke volumes.

To Hal he said:

"Chum is very fond of you, Hal.  You'll keep an eye on her, won't you?
Perhaps there is no one else but you who can."

Quick tears shone in Hal's eyes.

"Of course I will... two eyes.. I don't know that I shall let her out
of my sight at all."

Other evening, because Dudley was so often at Holloway, Hal went to
dinner with the Three Graces.  Dick often fetched her from the office,
and they went back together.  Now that she had become interested in the
East End, they had schemes to talk over, and she and Quin were never
weary of discussing odd characters there, and odd histories, and plans
for different amusements.

Dick joined in a times, but was very busy with his new book.

Alymer Hermon had grown strangely quiet.  At intervals, for the sake of
old times, he and Hal sparring matches, but if, as wat not very usual,
he happened to be at home, he was inclined to do little else but lounge
and smoke, and watch her while presumably reading a paper.

Hal did not notice it particularly.  She had many other things on her
mind just then, and Alymer only filled a very small corner.  She was
glad he was progressing so satisfactorily.  He was well started up the
ladder now, and though he had had no single big chance to distinguish
himself once for all, it was generally regarded as merely a matter of
time.  She fancied she did not meet him so much at Lorraine's, but as
she did not go nearly so often herself, on account of the Holloway
visits, she could not really know.

But she noticed that Lorraine also was a little different - a little
more reserved and likewise quieter.  She seemed still to be ailing a
good deal, and to have lost interest in her profession.

Yet she did not seem unhappy.  On the contrary, Hal thought her happier
than usual in an undemonstrative, dreamy sort of way.  She was
interested in the East End social evenings, and on one occasion went
herself.

She was also interested in Basil Hayward, and motored up with lovely
flowers for him; but she talked far less of the theatre, and seemed
indisposed to consider a new part.

"I want a real long rest this summer," she had said, "free from
rehearsals and everything."

In mid-June Sir Edwin was married, with a great deal of display, and
much paragraphing of newspapers.  The day before the wedding, Hal
received a beautiful gold watch and chain from him.

"Do not be angry, and do not send it back," he wrote.  "Keep it and
wear it in memory of some one who was known to you only, and who has
since died.  To me, it is like honouring the memory of my best self if
I can persuade you thus to perpetuate it.  Good-bye, Little Girl; and
God bless you."

Hal kept the watch and wore it, and the only one who demurred was
Alymer Hermon.  It was spoken of at the Cromwell Road flat one evening,
when he was present but taking no part in the conversation.  Dick
admired it, and she told him it had been given to her recently.

Qin was not there, and a moment later Dick was called away to speak to
some one at the telephone.  Alymer looked up at Hal suddenly, with a
very direct gaze.

"Lorraine told me Sir Edwin gave you the watch the other day.  I don't
know how you can keep it, much less wear it.  You ought to throw it
into the Thames."

Hal flushed up angrily.

"Of course I'm interested in your opinion on the matter," she said,
"but I had not thought of asking for it."

Hermon flushed too, but he stood his ground.

"It would be the opinion of most men."

"Most men 'don't appeal to me in the least.  I am quite satisfied with
my own opinion in this matter."

"Still, I wish you wouldn't wear it," he urged, a little boyishly.
"The man has shown himself a cad.  He was in a tight corner, and he let
a woman buy him out."

"And don't most men take help from a woman at some time or other?"

He winced, but answered sturdily:

"Not monetary help.  Besides, he didn't worry much about getting you
talked of, did he?"

Hal was just going to make a sarcastic retort, when Dick reappeared,
and the matter was dropped.

But when she came to think of it afterwards, she could not but a little
struck at Alymer's attitude, and wondered why he had taken so much
interest in her action.

A few days later Basil Hayward died.

Hal was not there at the time, but Dudley had not come home at all the
previous night, and she was afraid that his friend was worse.  In the
afternoon she had been detained at the office, and she hardly liked to
go up to Holloway in the evening without knowing if she was wanted.

So she sat anxiously waiting for Dudley.  When at last he arrived he
looked haggard and worn and ill.  Hal stood up when he came in, and
waited for him to speak.

"It's all over," he said, and sank into his chair as if he were
dead-beat.

Hal's hart ached with sympathy.  She felt instinctively there was more
here than grief for a friend whose death could only be regarded as a
merciful release.

She was right.  For the last three weeks Dudley and Ethel had been in
almost daily contact beside the dying man's bed.  Silently, devotedly
they had served him together.

But while Ethel was occupied only with the sufferer, Dudley, in the
long night-watches, had seen at last what manner of woman it was he had
passed by for the pretty, shallow, selfish little sister.

Ever since the elopement, three months ago, he had been changing.  It
had been the bitter blow that had stabbed him awake.  In some
mysterious way new aspects, new ideas, new understanding, began to
develop, where before had been chiefly a narrow outlook and rigid
conformity.

It was though in the fulfilling of her work, Life had harrowed his soul
with a bitter harrowing, that it might bring forth the better fruit in
its season.  The harrowing had seared and scarred, but aldready the new
richness was showing, the new promise of a nobler future.

The All-wise Mother works very much in human life as she does in nature
- topping off a hope here, and a hope there; ploughing, pruning,
harrowing the soil and branches of the mind and spirit, that they may
bring forth rich fruit in due season.

The life that she passes by unheeded, leaving it only to the sunshine
and wind and rain, often grows little else but rank vegetation, and
develops rust and mould - never the crops that are life-giving and
life-sustaining to the world; never the great thoughts, great deeds,
wide sympathies, that raise mankind to the skies.

But for Dudley the harrowing was not yet finished.  Perhaps, indeed, no
moment of all had been quite so bitter as the sense of his utter
unworthiness and utter incapability to help Ethel in her hour of direst
need.

The mere thought unnerved him for the little he might have done.  He
was so imbued with the idea of his helplessness, that he could only
stammer a few broken sentences she seemed scarcely capable of hearing.

He had but one consolation.  Towards the end, the sick man, suddenly
opening his eyes, looked round for his sister, and seeing she was
absent, had regarded Dudley with his whole face full of a question.

Dudley leant down to him.

"Yes, old chap," he asked tenderly.  "What is it?"

"Ethel... chum... you will try and help her?"

Then Dudley, with his new understanding, had grasped all that the dying
man hoped.

"I love her," he said very simply.  "I have been a blind fool, but I am
awake now.  I shall give my life to trying to win her."

"Oh! thank God... thank God," Basil whispered.  "It is certain to come
right some day - don't lose heart.  You have made me very happy."

He sank into stupor after that, and spoke no more, except for a
whispered "Chum", just before he died.

Then it was that the full flood of Dudley's bitterness seemed to close
in upon him, for his tortured mind translated Ethel's stunned grief
into veiled antipathy to his presence; and when there was nothing left
for him to see to, he went home for Hal.

In his chair, with his head bowed on his hands, Hal thought he had aged
years in the last three months.

"What shall I do?" she asked.  "Shall I go to Ethel?"

"Yes - will you?  She doesn't want me.  I feel as if she hated my being
there now.  But if you would go -?"

"It is your imagination, Dudley.  Things have all got a little
topsy-turvy since Doris went, but presently you will see you were
mistaken.  Don't lose heart too quickly."

But he refused to be comforted, and merely shook his head in silent
desolation.

"You'll stay with her if she wants you?" he asked.

"Yes, I'll stay"; and she went away to get her hat.

As she mounted the stairs in Holloway, the door of Flat G opened as if
some one within had been listening for her, and a stealthy head peeped
out.  Then a hand beckoned.

Hal crossed the landing and went inside the door.  The poor
music-teacher's face was swollen almost past recognition with crying.

""What am I to do?... what am I to do?" she moaned, rocking herself
backwards and forwards.  "There was only one thing in all the world
that made my life worth living, and now it is gone."

She sobbed bitterly for a few minutes, softened by Hal's sympathetic
presence, then she told her brokenly:

"They're all mourning.  Every single soul in this dreary building.
Considering he never left the flat, it's wonderful - wonderful; but he
knew all the children, and they all knew him.  And if you know the
children you know the fathers and mothers.

"Little Splodgkins, as we always called him, has been sitting like a
small stone effigy on the stairs outside his door.  He has patrolled
the whole staircase for days, keeping the other children quiet.  I told
Mr. Hayward, and he sent him a message.  He said, 'Tell him to grow up
a fine man, and fight for his country, and not to forget me before we
meet again.'  The little chap fought back his tears when I gave him the
message, and he said: 'Tell him, I thaid dammit, tho I will.'
But they're young, and they've got each other, most of the other folks
here, and I've got nothing - nothing.  Miss Pritchard, I can't go on
again the same - I can't - I can't."

"You must help Miss Hayward, at any rate for a time," Hal told her; "if
you didn't you would be failing him now; and even little Splodgkins
doesn't mean to do that."

"No, of course you're right.  I can light the fire for her in the
afternoon and put the kettle on.  It isn't much to be alive for, but
he'd say it was worth while.  He'd say, 'What would she do without a G
in the alphabet?' wouldn't he?  I must remember.  And now you must go
to her.  It's worse for her than me, only that she's still got all her
life before her, and she's very attractive, while I never seemed to
please any one in my life but him."

"Yes; I must go now," Hal said; "but I'll come and see you again.  Come
down east with me next Wednesdayn evening, to a social evening in the
slums, will you?  They're so interesting.  We'll have tea together
first.  I'll arrange to take you, and then you'll meet Dick."

"Good-bye for the present."

Then she crossed the landing, wondering with a sinking heart how she
could ever hope to comfort Ethel.





CHAPTER XL


It was not until a spell of exhaustingly hot weather set in in early
July that Hal saw a still more noticeable frailty in Lorraine.

She was quite unable to act, and spent a great deal of time on her sofa
near the window, where she could just distinguish the river through the
trees.  It seemed to have a growing fascination for her.

"I've always thought," she told Hal one day, "how I'd like to go away
from the fret and worry of London, smoothly down the river to a haven
of sunshine and sea."

"Why don't you go, Lorry.  Why not go at once, before you get any
weaker?"

"I think I must.  This sultry heat is too much for me, and I'm very
tired of London and everything belonging to it.  I should like to have
gone to my old haven on the Italian Riviera, but it would be too hot."

"Why so far?"

Lorraine glanced at Hal with a strange expression in her eyes, as she
said:

"It is a greater rest to get right away.  I shall try some little place
in Brittany.  Switzerland is so overrun with tourists in the summer."

When she was alone, some of the quiet went out of Lorraine's face and a
restless look of pain crept in.  She shaded her eyes and gazed long at
the river.

That old spirit of recklessness, which had caused her to hurl scorn and
defiance at Mrs. Hermon's emissary, and afterwards allow Alymer to
visit her at the little fishing-village, against his wiser judgment,
had passed away now, and given place to one of poignant questioning - a
spirit of questioning concerning that mad action of hers, and its
results.  She could not find it in her heart to regret it, not for one
moment; but nevertheless her mind was sore troubled concerning the
future for Alymer and herself.

And at the back of all the questioning there sounded ever an insistent
call to renounce - something above and beyond all desire and all
seeming, which told her she must not remain in his life, that, as far
as she was concerned, he must be free for the great work of his future.

And yet how hard it was to go!  Ever and anon her longing whispered,
"Why seek a crisis yet?  Why not go on the same a little longer?"

But since, before long, she would be compelled to go, and since the
nausea of London was gaining upon her, she began to feel it would
certainly be wiser to start at once, and find some homely, quiet spot
where she could remain in privacy, with her identity unknown for some
months.

And always that quiet voice in the background insisted that she must
cut herself off from Alymer Hermon.

Soon after Hal had left her he came in, and, standing as usual upon the
hearth, regarded her with grave eyes.  He was nearly always grave now,
as with some recollection that weighed heavily on his mind.

Lorraine tried to rally him, but without much success; and a pitiless
thought that had sometimes assailed her of late - that he regretted
their friendship and everything connected with it, struck icily on her
heart.

He was too loyal to show it, and yet, that strong instinct of
womanhood, which reads closed books as if they were spread open to the
light, sounded its warning note.  He would never blame her openly, but
in his heart he was already beginning to find it a little difficult not
to do so secretly.

"You can't go away alone, Lorry," he said unhappily, "and I can't
possibly come with you."

"Of course you can't," cheerfully.  "It isn't to be thought of for a
moment.  I don't know whether you can even come and see me.  You
certainly mustn't run any risks just now.  Flip tells me Hall is
interested, and you may get your big chance shortly through him."

"Still, I shall feel rather a beast."

"You mustn't do anything so silly."

She got up and came and stood near him, leaning her face against his
arm.

"If you will write to me often, dearie, I shall be all right.  If you
worry I shall be miserable.  Try to understand that you have done
nothing to make me unhappy.  A little while ago I had a dream of how I
longed to go away with a little one of my own, to some quiet spot far
removed from all I have ever known.    If I am to realise my dream, how
should I not be happy?  It is what I asked life to give me."

But his eyes lost none of their gravity.  It was evident, in the midst
of his dawning success, some cloud had descended upon his horizon, and
shrouded much of the sunlight.

Lorraine's sensitive temperament read it quickly, and she decided, for
his sake, to hasten her departure.  She thought her continued presence
in London under the circumstances was a continual anxiety to him, and
that he would only breathe freely when she was safe in Brittany.

She did not know - how should she - that after that week's madness on
the southern coast there had come rather a terrible revelation to the
man whom fortune seemed to be smothering with favours.

It had not come all at once.  It had been there, or at any rate the
gist of it, for some time.  But when it was present in full force, it
had the power to make all the adulation, triumph, and hopefulness of
his career seem but a small thing and of little account, because of one
great desire beyound his reach.

It came definitely into being during those many evenings Hal spent at
the Cromwell Road flat, when Dudley was away in Holloway with his
friend.

It reached a climax of realisation when she openly wore the watch and
chain Sir Edwin had sent to her.  The night he asked her not to wear
it, and she tautingly refused, saw him, with all his success and
favours, one of the most perplexed and unhappy men in London.

It was just the waywardness of the little god Love.  The fair dbutantes
with money and influence had left him untouched.  No older woman but
Lorraine had disturbed his peace, or appealed to his deepest affections.

It was left to Hal, the mocker, the outspoken, the impatient of giant
inches and splendid head, to awaken his heart to all its richness of
strong, enduring love.

And what did it mean to her?

The sunshine and the joy might go out of all he was winning and
achieving, if it might not be won and achieved for her - but what did
she care - what was she ever likely to care?

Had she not always dealt him laughter and careless scorn where other
women bowed down?  Had she not, over and over, weighed him in the
balance, in that quiet, direct way of hers, and seen the weak strain
that had always been there?  First the lack of purpose, the idle
indifference, which, in a different guise, had led up to a memory which
now tortured his mind - the memory of a mad week; of love that was not
love, because his whole soul was not given with it - nay, worse, was
actually given in unconsciousness elsewhere.  If she ever knew of that,
what must her indignation and scorn be then?...  Would it not indeed
separate them for ever?

And even if it did, could it make hi unlove her?...  Why should it,
since he had waited no encoouragement before he gave her all?  If he
knew why he loved her, it might.

But he did not even know that.  It was a thing outside questioning;
something he seemed to have had no free will about.  It was just there
- a strong, undeniable fact.

Why reason?  It did not _need_ reasoning.  He loved her.  He would
always love her - simply because she was Hal - and as Hal, to him, was
the one woman who filled his heart.

No; Lorraine dit not know just what fire of repentance and
self-condemnation and hopeless aching her recklessness had lit for him;
but it was enough that his gravity grew and deepened, and she believed
she could lighten it.

She made immediate plans; cancelled her present engagement at
considerable monetary loss to herself, and almost before any of them
realised it, had vanished to a little out-of-the-way spot in Brittany,
alone with Jean.

Hal was quite unhappy that she could not go to her for her own summer
holiday, but Dick Bruce's people were taking her to Norway with them,
and she would not have a day to spare.

She made Alymer promise to run across and see how she was, if possible,
and then departed without any suspicions or forebodings, with Dudley
and Dick to join the rest of the party at Hull, whence they were to
start for the Fiords.

When she returned early in September, Lorraine was still away, and her
letters gave no hint of returning.  Still a little anxious, she sought
an interview with Alymer, asking him to meet her for tea the following
day.

The instant they met, Hal saw  the change in him, and exclaimed in
surprise:

"Haven't you had a holiday?  You don't look very grand."

Unable to meet her eyes, he turned away towards a small table.

"Oh yes, I've had a holiday.  I've been in France studying the
language.  I can talk like a French froggy now."

"Then of course, you saw Lorraine?"

"Yes."

"I wanted to see you about Lorry," with direct, straight gaze.

He steadied his features with an effort.

"I guessed so."

"Well, what is the matter with her?"

"Nothing very much.  She got thoroughly low I think, and is not pulling
up very quickly."

"I don't understand it," with puzzled, doubtful eyes.  "Lorry is not
like that.  She is quite strong really.  She has only once before gone
under like this, and then it was a mental strain.  I wonder if it is
anything the same again?  Did you see much of her?"

"I saw her four or five times."

"And she didn't tell you anything?"

"Anything about what?"

"Well - about her husband, for instance.  He isn't worrying her again,
is he?"

"She did not speak of him at all."

"Then what is it?...  I wish she had not gone so far away.  I wish I
could get to her.  Did she say when she might be coming back?"

"Not at present.  She likes being there.  She does not want to come
back."

"That's what I can't understand.  Something odd seems to have changed
her.  Have you thought so."

"I don't think it odd in Lorraine to fancy a long spell of country
life.  She was always loved the country."

"Not alone," with decision, "except for a good reason.  I feel there is
a reason now, and I do not know it."

Suddenly she gave him another direct look.

"You are changed too.  You are years older.  Is it your advancing
success, or what? ...  I don't say it isn't becoming," with a dash of
her old banter - "but it seems sudden."

He raised his eyes slowly and looked into her face with an expression
that in some way hurt her.  It was the look of a devoted dog, craving
forgiveness.

She pushed her cup away impatiently, half laughing and half serious.

"Don't look at me like that, Baby," striving blindly to rally him -
"you make me feel as if I had smacked you."

He laughed to reassure her, and changed the subject to Norway, trying
to keep her mind from further questioning concerning himself and
Lorraine.

After tea she left him to go down to Shoreditch with Dick, first
meeting him and the forlorn "G" at the Cheshire Cheese for their usual
high tea.

It had become quite an institution now that "G" should join them, and,
as Hal had predicted, she and Dick were firm friends.  It was the
brightest spot of the music-teacher's life since Basil Hayward died,
and neither of them would have disappointed her for the world if they
could help it.

To-night Quin was there also, so Hal was able to get a few words
privately with Dick.

"What in the world is the matter with Alymer?" she asked.  "I had tea
with him this afternoon.  He seems awfully down on his luck."

"I don't know what it is," Dick answered.  "He is certainly not very
gay - yet that last case he won before the Law Courts closed should
have put him in fine feather for the whole vacation.  Did you ask him
if anything was wrong?"

"Yes; but he would only prevaricate.  He has been in France, you know,
studying the language, and he saw Lorraine, but he says very little
about her.  I wish I had time to go over and see her.  Why, in the name
of goodness, is she not acting this winter?"

But Dick could not help her to any solution, and an accumulation of
work kept her too busy to brood on the puzzle.

It was at the end of October the shock came.

Hal reached home before Dudley that evening, and found a foreign letter
awaiting her, written in an unfamiliar handwriting, and bearing the
post mark of the little village where Lorraine so obstinately remained.
 With an instant sense of apprehension, she tore open the envelope, and
read its contents with incredulity, amazement, and anxiety struggling
together in her face.

Then she sat down in the nearest chair with a gasp, and stared blankly
at the window, as if she could not grasp the import of the bewildering
news.

The letter was from Jean, partly in French, and partly in English.  It
informed Hal, in somewhat ambiguous phrases, that La Chre Madame was
very ill, and daily growing weaker, and she, Jean, was very worried and
unhappy about her.  She thought if mademoiselle could possibly get
away, she should come at once.  It then went on to make a statement
which took Hal's breath away.

"L'enfant!... l'enfant!..." she repeated in a gasping sort of
undertone, and stared with bewildered eyes at the window.

What could have happened?...  What dit it all mean?

Then with a rush all the full significance seemed to come to her.
Lorraine, ill and alone in that little far-away village, and this
incomprehensible thing coming upon her; no one but a paid, though
devoted maid to take care of her; no friend to help er in the
inevitable hours of dread, and perhaps painful memories and
apprehensions.

All her quick, warm-hearted sympathy welled up and filled her soul.  Of
course she must go at once, to-night if possible, or early to-morrow.

Yet as she struggled to collect her thoughts and form plans, she was
conscious of a dumb, nervous cry: "What will Dudley say?...  What in
the world will Dudley say?"





CHAPTER XLI


He came in while she was still trying to compose herself for the
struggle she anticipated; and because she had not yet made any headway,
he saw at once that something alarming had happened.

He glanced at the envelope lying on the table, then at the open letter
in her hand, and then at her face.

"What is the matter?...  Have you had bad news?"

For one dreadful moment, observing the foreign stamp, he thought
something might have happened to Ethel, who was taking her month's
holiday on the Continent.  When Hal looked blankly into his face, as if
quite unable to tell him, he added hurriedly:

"Is your letter about Ethel? ... Is she Ill?"

"No, it is not Ethel," Hal answered, noticing, in spite of her
distress, his unconcealed anxiety.  "Some one is ill, but it is not
Ethel."

"Is it Lorraine?"

He spoke with quiet, kindly concern now, being reassured concerning the
swift dread that had sized him.

"Yes," Hal said nervously.  "She is very ill.  Dudley, I must go to her
at once."

She got up as if she could not bear the strain seated, and moved away
to the window.

"It's all rather terrible," speaking hurriedly; "but don't... don't...
be upset about it.  I can't bear it.  I _must_ go, whatever you say,
and I want you to help me."

"What is the matter?"  He came close to her and tried to see her face.
"What has happened, Hal?"

"Lorry is in trouble."  She was half crying now; "I have had a letter
from Jean.  She has told me something I did not know.  I did not even
suspect it.  But I must go.  You will surley see that I must go,
Dudley."

"Tell me what it is," he said, in a voice so kind, she turned and
looked into his face, almost in surprise.  He met her eyes, and,
reading all the distress there, he added:

"Don't be afraid, Hal.  I know I was an awful prig a little while ago,
but... but... it's not the same since Doris jilted me, and since Basil
died.  I see many things differently now.  Tell me Lorraine's trouble."

"She is so ill, because if she lives until next December she will have
a little one.  Oh, do you understand, Dudley?  She is there all alone,
because she made a mess of her life and is obliged to hide.  I must go
to her.  You will help me, won't you?"

She glanced at him doubtfully, and then a swift relief seemed to fill
her face.

"Yes, certainly you must go,' he said gravely; "if Jean says she is ill
now, I think you should go at once, and see for yourself just how
things are."

"Oh, how good of you.  I was afraid you would be angry and object."

He smiled a little sadly.

"I've enough money in hand for your ticket.  You can catch the early
boat train, and I'll send some more by to-morrow's post.  Had you
better see Mr. Elliott about being absent from the office for a day or
two, or shall I see him in the morning?"

"He won't mind.  I've got everything straight since I came back, and
Miss White will do my work for a day or two.  If you would see him in
the morning, and just tell him Miss Vivian is very ill and I was sent
for.  He knows what friends we are, and would understand."

"Very well.  Now you must have some dinner, and get to bed, for you
will have a long, anxious day to-morrow."

In a sudden rush of feeling, she put her hands on his shoulders and
kissed him.

"I'm so grateful," she said, in a quivering voice.  "I can't tell you.
It has all come upon me as a shock.  I had not the faintest suspicion."

It was not natural to him to be demonstrative, and he only turned away
with a slight embarrassment, saying:

"I'm sure you hadn't.  But I feel I can trust you now, Hal, to be
discreet as well as quixotic.  Your mission, if one can call it such,
will need both."

Then he sought to distract her mind for the present, and while they
dined he talked of many things to interest her.

"Do you know that Alymer Hermon has just got the chance of his life?"
he told her, before they rose.  "I head to-day he is to appear with
Hall in this big libel case.  Sir James Jameson told me at the Club.
He said Hall had taken a great fancy to him, and if he does really well
over this case he's going to take him up.  He is very fortunate.  Not
one man in a thousand would get such a chance at his age.  I hope he
will do well; I like him; and if he isn't a success over this he may
never get such an opportunity again."

"When does the case come on?"

"Almost at once, I think, but it probably will not last more than two
or three days."

When Hal said good-night to him, she remarked shyly:

"I heard from Ethel last night.  She loves the Austrian Tyrol.  She
said she hoped you were better for your trip to Norway."

His forehead contracted a little, and he did not look up from the book
he had just opened.

"Is she better herself?  Is she any happier?"

Hal looked thoughtfully into the fire.

"I think she is very lonely.  I don't think she will be much happier
until... until... there is some one to take Basil's place."

"No one can do that."  He spoke a little shortly.  "Basil was a hero.
I do not know how she is ever to love a lesser man."

"If she loved a man, she would easily see heroic qualities in him.  She
could not love a man who was without them; but that does not mean he
need actually be a hero by any means."

She longed to say more, but was diffident of doing greater harm than
good.  At last she ventured:

"I have sometimes thought she has a warm corner in her heart for you,
Dudley."

"For me! ... "  He gave a low, harsh laugh for very misery.  "No; she
despises me.  She has done for some time.  I'm sorry.  I'd change it if
I could, but it's too late now."

Hal moved towards the door.

"It is rather a slur on Ethel to suggest that she could possibly
despise Basil's best friend.  Don't let an idea like that take root,
Dudley.  'Lookers on see most of the game," you know, and what I have
seen has suggested quite differently.  Good-night."

"Good-night.  Try to sleep.  I'll take you to Charing Cross myself."

The next morning Hal started off alone, to find her way to Lorraine's
hiding-place, and give her what comfort of friendship she could.

And all the time she asked herself with harried thoughts,  "Who has
brought this trouble into Lorraine's life?"

And at the back of her mind was the dread premonition "Was it indeed
Alymer Hermon?"





CHAPTER XLII


When Hal first saw her old friend she was almost too shocked for words
at the swift change in her.  Lorraine tried hard to smile cheerfully,
but she could not hide any longer from herself how seriously ill she
had grown, and she felt it useless to try and hide it from Hal.

Jean had not told her of the letter, and she knew nothing of Hal's
coming until she was actually in the house.  When she saw her, she
could have cried for gladness.

"How good of you, Hal... how good of you!" she breathed, and Hal, on
her knees by the couch, in an unsteady voice replied:

"Oh, why didn't you send for me sooner?  Why didn't you let me come
here instead of going to Norway?"

An hour later she went out to the little post office, and wired to
London to know if she might remain away for a week.

It was evident Lorraine was very ill indeed and needing the utmost care.

During the day she seemed to grow steadily worse, and she could not
bear Hal out of her sight.

"I don't know whether you are shocked or not," she said to her once,
"but if everything goed all right I shall not regret what I have done
for one moment.  I wanted something more real for the rest of my life
than I have had in its beginning."  Her voice dropped to a whisper.  "I
wanted his child to live for."

With a caressing hand on the sick woman's, Hal asked in a low voice:

"Why isn't he here taking care of you now?  Where is you child's
father?"

A swift surprise passed through Lorraine's eyes, as if it had not
occured to her Hal would not know the truth.  Then she said, very
softly, "Alymer."

"Ah!"

The exclamation seemed wrung from Hal unconsciously, and after it her
lips grew strangely rigid.

"Hal," Lorraine said weakly, "I've loved Alymer almost ever since I
first saw him.  I swore I would not harm his career, and I have not.  I
will not in future.  But the child is his, and I thank God for it.  I
do not believe an illegitimate child with a devoted mother is any worse
off than the legitimate child with a selfish, unloving one.  That there
is love enough matters the most.  What can any child have better than a
life's devotion?"

Later on she said:

"This is his great week, Hal.  In his last letter he tells me his big
chance has come at last through Sir Philip Hall.  We always hoped it
would.  It is the big libel case, and if Sir Philip chooses he can let
him take a very prominent part.  He will, I  am sure of it.  He is very
interested in him, and he has given him this chance on purpose.  Flip
thinks it will lead to a great deal; and of course if so it is splendid
for him."

Hal said very little.  She was overcome at the revelation Lorraine had
made, and seemed quite unable to grasp it.

Meanwhile she waited fearfully for the crisis the doctor had told her
was impending.  She was expecting him to call again, and was relieved
when at last he arrived bringing a pleasant-faced French nurse with him.

She relinquished her post then, and waited for him anxiously
downstairs.  When he came he told her he must have another opinion at
once, and Hal knew that something serious was wrong, and that he feared
the worst.

The next morning, when she saw Lorraine again, she understood that they
had saved her life, but probably only for a few days at the most.

Lorraine was almost too weak to speak, but she looked into Hal's eyes,
and in her own there was a dumb imploring.  Hal leant down and murmured:

"What is it, Lorry?...  Do you want Alymer?"

"Yes," was the faint whisper.  "I feel it is the end.  I want so much
to see him once more."

"I will go to London myself, and fetch him," Hal said, and a look of
rest crept into the dying woman's eyes.

So it happened that the day before the great libel case Hal stood in
Hermon's chambers, and delivered her message.

It was a tense moment - a moment of warring instincts, warring
inclinations, conflicting fates.  It was surely the very irony of
ironies, that within sight of his goal, with all this woman had
manoeuvred to give him almost in his hands, she should be the one to
step suddenly between him and the realisation of everything his life
had striven for.

To fail Sir Philip Hall at the eleventh hour, under such circumstance,
could only mean an irreparable disaster.  He would lose, as far as his
profession was concerned, in every single way.  It would strike a blow
at his progress, from which it might never wholly recover.

No wonder, confronted with the sudden demand life had flung at him, he
stood stock still, with rigid face, almost overcome by the swift
sword-thrust of fate, and made no reply.

Since Hal told him, in a few, rather abrupt words, her story, he had
scarcely looked at her.  When she first entered his room so
unexpectedly, his eyes had searched her face as if he would read
instantly what she had come for?...  what she had learnt?...  Before
hers, his gaze fell.

"I have come from Lorraine," she said, and he understood that she knew
all.

A dull red crept over his face and neck, and then died away, leaving
him of an ashy paleness.  He was standing by his desk, and he reached
out one hand and rested it on some books, gripping the backs of them
with a grip that made his knuckles stand out like white knots.  He did
not ask Hal to sit down.  Commonplace amenities died in the stress of
the moment.

She stood in the middle of the room, very straight and very still.  In
a close-fitting travelling-dress she looked unusually slim, almost
boyish, and something about her attitude rather suggested a youthful
knight, sword in hand, come with vengeance to the Transgressor.  Yet,
even in his shame and stunned perplexity, Hermon lost no shred of
dignity.

He towered above her, with bend head, rigid, white face, grave,
downcast eyes, and in spite of every reproach her attitude seemed to
hurl at him, het yet wore the look of nobility that was his birtright.

"When do you think I should go?" he asked at last, with difficulty.

"We ought to cross to-night."

"To-night! - I - I - have a very important case to-morrow.  It will not
last long.  It matters a great deal."

"I know," was the short, uncompromising answer.

He looked up with a swift glance of inquiry.  Then he said quietly:

"Do you know that it may wreck my future to leave London to-night?"

"Yes," said Hal.  "I know."

"And after all Lorraine did not help me to this hour of success, am I
to throw away my chance?"

"Lorraine is dying.  Her dying wish is to see you once more.  Is it
necessary to discuss anything else?"

Again there was silence between them - silence so intense, so poignant,
it was like a live thing present in the room.  Through the double
windows came a far-off, muffled sound of the traffic in the Strand, but
it seemed to have nothing whatever to do with the life of that quiet
room.  It dit not disturb the silence, in which one could almost hear
pulse-beats.  It belonged to another world.

Once Alymer raised his head and looked hard into her face.  In his eyes
there was an expression of utter hopelessness.  She had not spoken any
word of reproach or scorn, yet everything about her as she stood there
erect and passionless, and without one grain of sympathy for his
struggle, told him that, just as far as her natural broadness allowed
her to condemn any one, she condemned him.

For a moment a sort of savage recklessness seized him.  He felt
suddenly he was stranded high-and-dry on a barren rock, with nothing at
all any more in his world but his profession.  He had lost all hope of
ever winning Hal, which seemed to be all hope of anything worth having.
 Nothing remained but the hollow interest of a great name, and the lust
of power.  He had it in his mind for those brief, passionate moments,
because he had lost all else, to insist upon taking his chance.

Even one day's grace might save him.  The trial would perhaps last not
more than two, but in any case, a wire reaching him in the middle,
which he could show to Sir Philip, might mean all the difference
between success and failure.  The wire could be worded to hide what was
truly involved, and the plea of a life-and-death urgency would set him
free without any awkward questioning.

He glanced up to speak, and once again Hal's attitude arrested him.
She looked so young, so fresh, so true, so vaguely splendid, in spite
of the rigid lips that seemed to have closed down tightly upon all she
must have suffered in the last fort-eight hours.

She was not looking at him now, but, with her head thrown back a
little, she gazed silently and fatefully at the clock on his
mantelpiece.

And something about her called to him, with the calling of the great,
mysterious things, a calling that shamed and scorned that spirit of
savage recklessness; that swift, relentless lust of power.

"What is anything in the world,' it seemed to cry, "compared to being
true to one's friend; true to one's word; true to one's love?"

He saw suddenly that in any case success and triumph would bring him
little enough to gladden his heart; that whichever way he turned was
gloom and darkness; that in that gloom a possible ray of light still
linger, if he could keep always the consciousness that, at the most
critical hour of his life, he had rung true.

He raised his eyes suddenly, and straightened himself.

"What time does the next train leave?" he said.  "I am coming."





CHAPTER XLIII


After Hal had left, Lorraine sank into a stupor from weakness, and
remained thus until towards evening.  Then she revived, and seemed to
comprehend better all that had happened; all that was happening still.

She knew that the child she had dreamed of would never lie in her amrs
and look up at her with Alymer's eyes.  She knew that in the first
awful moments of realisation, and deathly weakness, her whole soul had
so craved to see Alymer again that she had asked for him.

A few moments later the stupor had come down upon her exhausted senses,
and without any further word or thought from her, Hal had gone on her
errand.

At first, in the darkened room where she had suffered so much, she
remembered only that very soon Alymer might be with her.  And the
thought, while it quickened her pulses, yet made her feel almost faint
with the longing for him to come quickly.  What if they were delayed,
and this terrible weakness took her away from him without a last
meeting.

The thought that death was approaching did not frighten her.  She
rather welcomed it.  When she left London in the summer, she had felt
that she could never go back.  She had already fixed in her mind the
picture of the quiet haven, where she would live restfully with
Alymer's child - far away from the turmoil that had marked her life
almost from its earliest beginning, and safe from slander.

She dit not mind for herself.  The things that most women valued, no
longer held much meaning for her.  She had experienced more than most;
learned more than most how empty success and triumph may become;
sounded for herself the shallowness of many things that society regards
as prizes.

She had been tired for a long time.  Now the tiredness had reached a
climax.  If the quiet haven might not bless her life, it was, on the
whole, better that she should die.

This quiet fatalism only increased her longing to see Alymer once more.
 It was the one thing in all existence left to long for.  It merged
every remaining faculty into one desire.  And Hal would bring him.  Hal
never failed any one.

Then came the night, and instead of a quiet sleep, restlessness seized
her.  The recollection of the lawsuit which was to make Alymer's name
once for all, came back again and again with merciless insistence,
fighting like some desperate thing that last, one, great desire.  Try
as she would to smother it, after a little period of rest it came back
stronger than ever.

In vain she told herself that when he knew she was dying he would have
no wish but to hasten to her.  In vain, she said also, that success
would no longer mean all it had done; that with love crying to him from
a death-bed, he would understand its emptiness and scorn it.

Another voice, the voice of her truest self, answered:  "Ah! but he is
young.  Remember he is young - young - young - and you, when you were
his age, cared terribly to succeed.  You say now that success is empty,
but at least you had the satisfaction of learning the fact for
yourself.  You did not have to take another's word for it, and let your
chance pass you by, just at the moment of grasping it.  If he is to be
left without you, what will he have then to make up for the great
moment lost?

"Nay, worse - what will he have left to spur him to try and regain his
proud position, and go on up the heights of fame?  And for you, of all
people, to deal this blow to his future - the ambitious future which
you yourself have fostered and nourished with such care."

The hours wore on, and still, in spite of the awful physical
exhaustion, the mental battle raged, draining away strength that should
have been carefully nursed for each bad hour of many days ahead.  The
nurse watched beside her with growing alarm, seeing the feverishness
and restlessness, where absolute quiet was imperative.

At last she went to her softly, and said, in a sweet, low voice:

"Madame is in trouble.  Madame is fretting.  It is not good.  Madame
must try to rest."

Lorraine turned her feverish, pain-driven eyes to the kindly face, with
a lookf of beseeching, but she made no reply.

The nurse laid her cool hand on the burning forehead.

"Madame is not a Catholic, but the priest brings healing to all.  Shall
I ask him to come and pray, that peace may be given to the sick mind?"

"I cannot confess," Lorraine breathed a little gaspingly.  "I could not
bring myself to it."

"It is not necessary.  The priest will come to pray if madame wishes."

"Yes," was the low response; "please ask him."

The little old man who took care of the souls of the little old-world
village, and had done for three parts of a century, came to her at
once, with a womanly tenderness in his face.  In a low voice he blessed
her, and then knelt down and prayed quietly.

After a time, som of the anguish died out of Lorraine's eyes.  She
turned to him weakly and said:

"I am not a Catholic.  I do not know if I am anything, but I want to
ask you something.  If one has sinned, and led another astray, might an
act of renunciation perhaps save that other from the consequences of
the sin that was not his?"

"Self-sacrifice and renunciation are ever pleasing to God," he told her
simply.  "He knows that whatever else there is in a heart, with
self-sacrifice there is also purity and nobility."

"If I thought I alone need bear the consequences, I think I could do
anything," she whispered - "bear anything, renounce anything."

Again the quiet soothing of a prayer fell on her ears.  She listened,
and heard the old priest praying God an the Holy Virgin to help her to
find the courage for the sacrifice her heart called for, that if she
were about to enter the presence of the Most High, she might take with
her the cleansing of repentance and a self-sacrificing spirit.

She lay still for some little time listening to the soft cadence of his
voice, and then she opened her eyes and looked at him with a full,
sweet look.

"I will do it, Father," she said to him.  "Perhaps, if God understands
everything, He will let my anguish of renunciation absolve that other
from all sin.  It is the most I have to ask of all the powers in heaven
and earth."

"The Holy Mother comfort you, my child," he said; and with an earnest
benediction left her.

Then Lorraine motioned to the French nurse that she wanted her, and
gathering all her remaining strength asked for a telegraph form and
pencil.  The nurse supported her in her arms, while with a trembling
hand she traced faintly the words of her message.  It ran:

"Marked change for the better.  No need for haste.  Come in a few days.
- Lorraine."

It was addressed to Alymer Hermon, at The Middle Temple.

"Please take it now at once," she said.  She knew that the Frenchwoman
could not read English, and that Jean was not yet awake.





CHAPTER XLIV


In Alymer's room at the Middle Temple he and Hal were making their
arrangements to catch the next boat.

The moment he had spoken his decision she had turned to him with a
swift expression of approval, but, for the rest, her manner was
somewhat curt and business-like, and showed little of the old
friendliness.

It made him feel that, as far as she was concerned, he had sinned past
forgiveness; and he knew with that unerring instinct that sometimes
illumines a wrong action, that she judged him harshly because she knew
he had not loved Lorraine with all his strength.  How then could he
ever hope to tell her that one reason he had not loved Lorraine thus
was because, unconsciously, another woman had won his heart; further,
that that other woman was herself?

No; of course the day would never dawn when he would dare to tell her
that.  An eternity separated them.

But he tried not to think of it now; to remember only that Lorraine,
his best friend and his benefactress, was dying, and that she had sent
Hal to fetch him to her side.

His face was very grave, and he looked white and ill as Hal explained
what time he must meet her at the station, but he gave no sign of
flinching; no triumph in the world could now weaken his resolution.

"Very well, that is all arranged," said Hal, and at that moment there
was a knock at the door.  Alymer crossed the room and opened it
himself, and was handed a telegram.  He read it, looked for a moment as
if he could not grasp it, then, telling the bearer there was no reply,
closed the door, went back to Hal, and handed it to her without a word.

Hal read, half aloud:

"Marked change for the better.  No need for haste.  Come in a few days.
- Lorraine."

For some moments there was only silence, and then she looked at him
with troubled, perplexed eyes, and said:

"I don't quite know what to make of it."

"Doesn't it mean that she has passed some crisis and will live?" he
suggested.  "I think it must."

Hal still looked doubtful; and at that moment there was another knock
at the door.

Again Alymer opened it himself.  "Lord Denton particularly wishes to
see you," he was told.

"Show him in at once," he replied, and turned to tell Hal who was
coming.

Flip Denton had come to inquire for more detailed news of Lorraine than
he could get from her letters.  He gathered from them that  she was
remaining away for the whole winter theatrical season, because her
health was bad; but any suggestion on his part to run over to Brittany
and see her was persistently negatived.  Finally he had come to Alymer.

The moment he saw them he knew that something serious was wrong, and
that it concerned Lorraine.  But when, after learning she was very ill,
he asked Hal wat was the matter, and saw the scarlet blood flame into
her face, he said no more.

"I was with her yesterday," she told him, "and the doctor said he
feared she would not live many days.  She wanted Alymer, and I came
over to fetch  him."

"And you are going at once?" Denton asked him, with a curious
expression in his eyes.

"I have arranged to."

"Doesn't your great case come on this afternoon, or to-morrow morning?"

"Yes."

Denton's grave face did not change.  "I see," he said, and turned a
little aside.

Then Hal, who had the telegram in her hand, held it out to him.

"This has just come."

He read it, and his face cleared joyously.

"Why, that is splendid news - don't you think so?"  And he regarded Hal
with a slightly puzzled air.

"I hardly know what to think," Hal said.  "Yesterday she was very ill."

"Ah, but you had to leave early," reassuringly, "and she may have been
gaining strength all the afternoon, and had a very good night.  What
are you going to do?" looking at Alymer.

Alymer looked at Hal, and waited for her decision.

Hal only looked doubtful and troubled.

"I think you should stay for the lawsuit," Denton said, to help her.
"It is evident that Lorraine wished it, and she of all people would not
have Hermon miss such a chance if possible.  I understood Hall it was
only likely to last two or three days.  He has some clinching evidence,
I think."

"That is so," Alymer answered gravely; but he still waited to take his
cue from Hal.

"You think he should stay for it?" Hal asked Lord Denton.

"I certainly think that is what Lorraine would wish him to do."

"Very well."

Hal commenced to pull on her gloves as if there were no more to say,
and then Denton asked her:

"Will you wait too?"

"No; I am going back by the next boat."

"I will come with you."

She glanced at him with slight alarm, and then at Alymer.  Denton saw
the look and seemed surprised.  Hal's eyes asked Alymer what they were
to do.  He spoke with an effort.

"I expect Miss Vivian would be glad to see so old an great a friend as
Lord Denton."

"Of course she would," he said decidedly - and to Hal:

"What time do we leave Charing Cross?"

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. .

Hal spoke very little on the journey.  A nameless dread weighed on her
spirit, and a haunting fear for Lorraine.  She was oppressed by a sense
of deep sadness for the brilliant, succesful woman she had loved since
her school days, who was now, after all her triumphs, alone in that
little foreign village, caught in a maze of tangles and perplexities
which offered no peaceful solution.

She could not understand Alymer's part at all, but she was convinced
Lorraine's absorbing devotion to him was not reciprocated in like
manner.  If Lorraine learnt this as soon as she recovered, what did the
future hold for her again but more vain dreams, and bitter hopes that
could never see fulfilment?

She felt a little pitifully that life was very hard and difficult, even
when one had a fine courage and will to face it; and a leaden pall of
sorrow seemed to fold itself round her.

What of Dudley and his hopeless love?  Ethel and her inconsolable
grief?  Sir Edwin, and his secret bitterness? the gaunt music-teacher
and her barren, joyless life?

Across her mind passed some lines, that had a strong attraction for her:

"_So manny gods, so many creeds,
so many paths that wind and wind,
And just the art of being kind
Is all the sad world needs._"

Ah! in truth it was a sad world first of all; a sad, sad world in need
of kindness and comfort.  One could but go on trying to be kind, trying
to be strong.

It was the only thing in a life of pitfalls and easily made mistakes,
to just march straight forward - eyes front - and not let anything
daunt permanently.  She felt, more profoundly than ever, it was not
wise to turn aside, looking to right and left, questioning overmuch of
right and wrong, probing into the actions of others.

Each human being was as a soldier in a vast army, and all were there
under the same colours, led by the same general, to bear, with what
courage they could, the fortunes of war.  Two might be standing
together, and one be wounded and the other untouched; many disabled,
and many unhurt; some left on the field to die, others found and nursed
back to life.

But the soldier was not there to question.  If a comrade fell, it was
no concern of his how he fell - his concern was to try and help him to
safety, then go back and fight again, undismayed if his place was but a
little insignificant one in the smoke and dust, unseen by any but a
near neighbour perhaps as insignificant as himself.

That was the true spirit of the great soldier, whether he was in the
ranks, lost in the smoke, or whether, on a magnificent charger, he led
gloriously for all the world to see.

She remembered the change in Dudley, which had led him so quickly to
respond to her cry, and refrain from judging.  He was seeing things in
that light also, learning to fight his own fight as pluckily as he
could, and only to look upon the warfare of others as one ready to help
them if it chanced that he was able - learning in place of rules and
precepts, "just the art of being kind."

Well, together perhaps they could help Lorraine - if she came out of
this last encounter bruised and broken.

Then they arrived, and she and Lord Denton hastened down the short road
to the little green-shuttered house.  At the sound of the latch on the
gate the door opened quietly, and Jean, with tears streaming down her
face, came towards them, choking back gasping sobs.

Hal stood still a second, and then ran forward blindly with
outstretched hands.

"She is better, Jean - say she is better.  Oh, she must be, she must;
she wired yesterday to say there was great improveent."

Jean broke down into helpless weeping as she sobbed out:

"She died this morning at six o'clock."

For one moment Hal seemed too stunned to understand; then she swayed,
and fell heavily into Denton's arms.

Later when she had recovered, Jean told them of the restless,
nerve-racking night; of the priest's visit, and of the fast-ebbing
strength gathered together to write some message the nurse had taken to
the post office.  After that extreme exhaustion had set in, greatly
aggravated by the mental stress, and they could only watch her sinking
from hour to hour.

"She only roused once more," Jean said, "and that was to try and write
a message for you.  I have it there," and she produced a little folded
note.

In faint, tremulous words Hal read:

"Good-bye, darling Hal.  It is hard to be without you now, but you will
inderstand why I sent the message.  I want to tell you it has never
been Alymer's fault; do not blame him.  I ask it of you.  At the last
hour I have made what reparation I could.  Don't grieve for me.  I have
made so many mistakes, and now I am too tired to go on.  Give my dear,
dear love to Alymer, and say good-bye to Flip and mother.  I am not
unhappy now - only very, very tired.
Your own
Lorry."

For the first time since she had recovered from her faint, Hal broke
down, and Jean and Denton went quietly away, knowing it would be better
for her afterwards, and left her sobbing her heart out over her letter.

Two days later, flying the colours of a great victory, and flushed with
the pleasure of warm congratulations poured upon him from all sides,
Alymer Hermon stepped out upon the little station.

He had never doubted the truth of the message, and he carried his head
a little higher and his shoulders a little squarer, proud and glad to
come to Lorraine with the news of his greatest success, and tell her of
the proud position he had won almost solely through her.  For had she
not first imbued him with ambition and the real desire to achieve, and
then, at exactly the right moment, procured him the first little
success that meant so much?

The instant he knew the great case was won, he had dashed out of the
court, scribbled her a hurried wire, and driven frantically to Charing
Cross, meditating a special train to Dover, if he were too late.  He
was not, though the guard was just about to give the signal for
departure, and the boat-train bore him from the station, full of that
glad consciousness of a great achievement, to carry the news instantly
to her feet.

On the little station in Brittany Denton was waiting for him.  And when
Alymer saw him the light faded out of his eyes, and the smile from his
lips.

"She died before we got there," Denton told him.  "We daren't let you
know, because she sent that message, on purpose to give you your chance
in the case."" Then, very kindly: "Sit down, old chap.  There's no
hurry.  Wait and rest a while here."

Alymer sat down on the little wooden station bench, and buried his face
in his hands.





CHAPTER XLV


It would seem sometimes that Life has a way of keeping the balance
between joy and pain, by making that which is a source of deepest
sorrow to one the unlooked-for instrument of great joy to another.

It was so with the sorrow that came down like a cloud upon Hal's
spirit, while she was yet striving bravely not to allow herself to fret
over Sir Edwin's perfidy.

It was not until after Hermon's arrival that the announcement of
Lorraine's death was sent to the papers.  After an anxious
consultation, Hald and Denton had decided she would have expressly
wished nothing to be done which might bring the news to Alymer before
his case was over, and so, while making all preparations for the
funeral, they refrained from any announcement in the home papers.
Directly he arrived, the notice was dispatched.

Ethel Hayward, returning from her holiday to the dreary, empty Holloway
flat, read it in the train as she journeyed.  Instantly her mind was
full of Hal.  She felt that in losing the one great woman friend of her
life Hal would seem to have lost mother, sister, and friend in one.

She went home to the emptiness of the flat, with her heart so full of
aching sympathy that some of the bitterness of her own loss was
softened.  On her sitting-room table was a beautiful array of flowers.
She looked at them with soft eyes, believing Hal had sent them, and her
tenderness made her long to hold the girl in her arms and try to bring
her a little comfort.

After a restless, troubled half-hour, she decided to go to her.  She
remembered it was the evening Dudley usually spent at the Imperial
Institute, and she thought it almost certain Hal would be alone.

She dreaded going if Dudley was likely to be there, as the constraint
between them was a misery to her, but she believed he was obliged to be
out, remembering how he had always been engaged on Fridays during his
engagement, and she took her courage in her hands for Hal's sake, and
went to the Bloomsbury rooms for the first time.

The maid who opened the door was just going out, and being somewhat
hurried, did not trouble to note whether she asked for Mr. Pritchard or
Miss Pritchard, merely standing for her to come in, and then showing
her into the sitting-room without properly announcing her, she hastened
away.

So Ethel unexpectedly found herself face to face with Dudley, alone.

He was so astonished, that for a moment he seemed unable to rise,
merely gazing at her with incredulous eyes, as if he thought he must be
dreaming.

For the past hour he had sat with a book on his knee, without having
read a line, for all the time his thoughts had been with her.  He knew
she had returned that night to her empty, desolate home.  He had sent
the flowers up himself, to try and mitigate the emptiness and lack of
welcome.

He had longed to go to the station to meet her, if only to look after
her luggage and see her safely into a cab.  He hated to think of her
arriving alone, and departing alone to that empty flat.  His utter
helplessness to do anything for her, when all his soul ached to do all,
tore at his heart, and thrust mercilessly upon him again and again his
blindness and folly in the past.

And then suddenly, in the midst of it, without any warning, she stood
there in the room, looking at him with startled, abashed eyes.

No wonder, with a sense of non-comprehension, joy leapt to his own,
transforming the white, unhappy gravity of his face to swift,
questioning eagerness; while at the same time he breathed tensely,
"Ethel!... you!"

It was the first time he had ever used her Christian name, and in spite
of her confusion she could not fail to hear the ring of gladness, of
intense, almost unbelievable joy.

It sent the blood rushing to her white cheeks, and made her heart beat
wildly.  She moved forward a little unsteadily.

"I saw about Miss Vivian's death to-day, and I was afraid Hal would be
all alone fretting...  so I came to see -"

She broke off.  Something like a sudden appeal in his eyes was
unnerving her.

Dudley only heard vaguely what she said.

As she came forward he had seen that she was rather overcome; he had
seen the quick scarlet  in her face, followed by a striking parlor, and
the bewildered surprise in her eyes.

What was it Hal had said that evening before she left?  He could not
remember, but he knew it meant that she did not think Ethel indifferent
to him as he believed.

He knew she had meant more, but he had not dared to dwell upon it.

He stood up, but did not move towards her.  Instead, he just stood
looking, looking into her eyes.  Hers fell, and again the quick colour
came and went.

"Hal is not here," he said simply; "she went to Miss Vivian last week."

"Oh, I am glad.  I was afraid she had not had time.  I thought, when I
saw the flowers..."  An idea seemed to strike her suddenly.  She looked
at him, and her eyes were full of a question she could not ask.  "I
thought only Hal knew I should be returning to-day."

"I knew," he said simply.

"Did you... did you..." she was at a loss to finish.

This hesitating nervousness was new to him.  He had never seen her
before other than calmly self-possessed.  It called, with
swift-calling, to his natural masculine strength and masculine
protectiveness.  It enabled him to grow sure of himself, and strong.

"Yes, I sent the flowers," he answered.  "I wanted badly to come to the
station to meet you, but I was afraid you might think it an
impertinence."  He came a little nearer.  "Sould you have thought so?"

He seemed to be waiting for an answer, and she said shyly:

"I should have thought it very kind of you."

"I am always wanting to do things for you," he said, "and I am always
afraid I shall only vex you.  And I wouldn't vex you for the world," in
a low, fervent voice.

Again she gave him a swift, shy, questioning glance, and he grew bolder
still.

He came closer, and stood beside her.

"Most of all, I want to tell you that I love you with all my heart and
soul and strength, and, until this moment, I have been afraid that that
would vex you too."

She raised her eyes then, swimming in sudden tears of gladness.

"But it doesn't?... " he said eagerly, "you... you... Oh, Ethel! is it
possible you would like me to say it?"

"It has been possible a long time, Dudley, but I did not think it would
ever be said."

He took her hands in his and kissed first one and then the other.  For
the moment he was too overwhelmed at the suddenness of his joy to
understand it.

"I thought you despised me," he breathed.  "It did not seem possible
you could do anything else; but Hal said I was wrong."

She smiled faintly.

"Yes; Hal knew," she told him.  "I think she has known some time."
Then she seemed to sway a little.

"You are tired out," he exclaimed in quick commiseration.  "What a
brute I am, letting you stand all this time, after your long journey
too!  I have told myself over and over how I would take care of you if
I might, and this is how I begin!  Forgive me -."

He gently pushed her towards his own big chair, and when she had sunk
down in it, fetched a cushion and a footstool.  She leaned back
wearily, looking up at him with eyes that were full of deep joy, if not
yet emancipated from their long, long vigil of sorrow.

"Is this all true, or am I dreaming?  Yesterday - an hour ago - I
thought it could never happen at all."

"I too."

He was kneeling on one knee beside her now, holding her hand against
his face for the comfort of it.

"I was thinking of you when you came.  I am always thinking of you.  My
whole life is like a long thought of you.  I was afraid it would never
become any more.  Since I grew to know myself better, it has never
seemed possible any one like you could care for such as I."

She gave him her other hand confidingly.

"I think I have always cared, Dudley.  Beside Basil, there has never
been any one else who counted very much at all."

It was good to be sitting there together by a fireside.  So good indeed
that it swept everything away that had stood between them, with swift,
generous sweeping.  There had been nothing real in the barrier,
scarcely anything that needed explaining, only the foolish imaginings
of two hearts that had become imbued with wrong impressions.

"I thought I loved Doris," he told her, still caressing her hand; "but
afterwards it was like a pale fancy to my love for you."

"I was terrified lest she should wreck both your lives," She answered.
"She cared so much for money, and the things money can buy.  Without
it, she might have grown bitter and hard and reckless.  With it, she
wil grow kinder, I think.  She felt Basil's death very much.  She shed
the most genuine tears she has ever shed in her life.  Dudley,  if
Basil had known that this was coming, it would have been a great
comfort to him."

"He did know."

"He knew!..." in surprise.  "How could he?"

"I told him.  I saw he was fretting very much about you, and I guessed
what was in his mind.  I told him I loved you better than my life; and
he said: "Thank God, it will all come right some day."

"Ah, I am glad that he knew.  Dear Basil, dear Basil.  If he had been
less splendid, Dudley, I think I should have taken my own life when he
died and left me alone.  But in the face of courage like his, one could
not be a coward."

Later Dudley took her home.  At the door he asked her pleadingly:

"May I came in for a moment?  I want to see the flat as it looks now."

She led the way, and they stood together in the little sitting-room
where Basil had lived and died, and where Dudley's flowers now shed a
fragrance of welcome.

She buried her face in the delicate petals, with memories, and
thoughts, and feelings too deep for words.

"It feels almost as if his spirit were here with us now," he said
softly.  "He was so sure he was only going to a grander and wider life.
 I think he must have been right; and that to-night he _knows_."

Tears were in her eyes again.  The loss was so recent still - the
memory so painful.  He drew her to him, and kissed them away.

"That night, Ethel, that first, terrible night when you were alone, it
nearly killed me to have to go away and leave you, to feel I could not
do anything at all.  You must let me comfort you doubly now to make up
for it.  You must come to me quickly."  She smiled softly, and he
added: "It would have been Basil's wish, too.  He hated the office as
much as I do.  Tell them to-morrow that you're not coming any more."

Her smile deepened at his boyishness.

"There are certain hard-and-fast rules to be observed about leaving.
I'm afraid they won't waive them for you."

"Well, tell them you are going to be married...  You _are_ going to be
married, aren't you?..." for a moment he was almost like Hal.  "Well,
why don't you answer?  I want to know."

"I haven't made up my mind sufficiently yet," with a low, happy laugh.

"Then I must make it up for you."

His manner changed again to one of wondering, absorbing tenderness.
Hal had been right, as usual.  Under the man's surface-narrowness and
superiority was a deep, true heart that had only been waiting the hour
of its great emancipation.  He took her in his arms and kissed her
again and again.

"Child," he breathed, "haven't I waited long enough?  Every hour of the
last few months, since I knew, has been like a year.  Don't make me
leave you here alone one moment longer than is necessary."

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. .

So it happened that when Hal came back to a dreary, empty, joyless
London, an unexpected gladness was waiting for her.

The last few days had almost broken her spirit.  The pathos of that
lonely, far-off grave, in the little alien churchyard, where they
tenderly left the remains of the beautiful, brilliant woman who had
been so much in her life for so long, seemed more than she could bear.

They three had stood together, representing her richness in friendship,
her poverty in blood ties.  The wire to her mother had only brought the
reply from some one in London that she was travelling in the South of
Italy, and could not possibly arrive in time.

Alymer still seemed almost stunned.  He had scarcely spoken since
Danton told him what had happened.  At first Hal had declined to see
him at all, but in the end Denton, with his shrewd common sense, had
talked her into a kindlier mood.

When they came back from the churchyard she had gone to him in the
little sitting-room, where he sat alone, with bowed head.  He stood up
when she came in, but he did not speak.  He waited for her to say what
she would, with a look of quiet misery in his eyes that touched her
heart.

For the first time she saw how changed he was.  There seemed nothing of
the old boyishness left.  Only a quiet, grave, deeply suffering man.

She had no conception that she, personally, added every hour and every
moment to that suffering.  She did not know he was enduring a bitter
sense of having lost her for ever, as well as the friend and
benefactress he had undoubtedly loved very dearly, if not with the same
passionate love that she had known for him.

But he only stood before her there, very straight and very still, and
with that old, quiet, ineradicable dignity which never failed him.

"Lorraine left a little written message for me," she said to him.

She paused a moment, and her eyes wandered away out to the little
garden, with its last fading summer beauty  yielding already to autumn.
 And so she did not see the expression in his fine face when he
ventured to look at her.  She did not know that because of his hopeless
love, and withal his quiet courage and quiet pain, at that moment he
looked even more splendidly a man than perhaps he had ever done before.

Had life been kinder, he would have crossed the space between them in
one step, and folded her in such an embrace as would have lost her slim
form entirely in his enfolding bigness.  He would have given her a
love, and a lover, such as falls to the lot of but few women.

And she stood there, with her head half turned away; with sad eyes and
drooping lips that went to his heart; her mind full of her dead friend,
and scarcely a glance for him.

"She said I was not to blame you for anything, and she told me to give
you her dear, dear love."

He winced visibly, but stood his ground.

"Thank you," he said, in a very low voice.

Then, with a sudden, longing triumphing over all:

"I prefer to take the blame upon myself, but even then I hope some day
you will find it possible to forgive me."

"I shall never forget how much Lorraine loved you," was all the poor
hope she gave him.

"Will that make it possible for us to remain friends?"

"Yes; I hope so."  She gave him her hand with an old-fashioned
solemnity.  "For Lorraine's sake," she said very simply, and then left
him.

He turned with a stifled groan, and, leaning his elbows on the
mantelpiece, buried his face in his hands.

Yet in that painful hour, out of all the tragic mistakes of her life,
Lorraine might have gleaned this gladness.  In that hour he was nearer
than he had ever been before to the man she had striven to make him;
for, mercifully for all mankind, there is a "power outside ourselves,"
which out of wrong, and weakness, and pain can bring forth good.

The sad trio returned to London the following day, and Hal wondered
forlornly if Dudley would leave his office early to come and meet her.

When she stepped out on the platform he and Ethel were standing
together, looking for her.  Then they saw her, and Ethel came forward
first, holding out both hands, with a subdued light in her face, that
made Hal pause and wonder.

"How did you know?  It was nice of you to come," she said, with another
question in her eyes.

"Dudley told me, dear.  I have been thinking of you so much."

Then Dudley stepped up to them, and in his face, too, was this subdued
gladness.

Hal looked from one to the other.

"Have you?..." she began, and paused uncertainly.

"Yes, dear"; and Ethel blushed charmingly.  "I am going to be your
sister, so I thought you would let me begin at once, and come to meet
you, and try to comfort you a little."

"Oh," said Hal, drawing a deep breath; "and I thought I was never going
to be glad about anything again."





CHAPTER XLVI


It is necessary to take but a cursory glance at the events that
followed.  Life flowed smoothly enough in its way, but it flowed
towards higher and greater achievements for some, and that can only
mean a story of obstacles, and drawbacks and difficulties sturdily
overcome.

For the three inmates of the Cromwell Road flat it held many prizes.

Alymer Hermon's career continued to advance by leaps and bounds.  The
"taking up" by Sir Philip Hall became quickly an actual fact, and he
was soon easily first among the juniors.  What he lacked in years and
experience his striking presence and personal charm supplied, and his
calm gravity and self-possession went far to counteract his youthful
appearance.

Dick Bruce finished his great novel, and though it was not quite the
jumble about vegetables and babies he had prophesied, it was considered
the most original book of the year, and brought him instantaneous
recognition and fame.

Quin inherited some money, and built a wonderful East End Club House
that is all his own, and is as the apple of his eye.

If the great solution of life is to find one's true environment, he has
at any rate found his; and in finding it knows a happiness, even amid
the squalid poverty of Shoreditch, such as is found by few.

In the meantime Hal continued to work and be independent.  When Ethel
and Dudley married, they tried hard to persuade her to live with them,
but she had already bespoken a smaller sitting-room with her old
landlady, Mrs. Carr, and made up her mind to live there.

Later, when Dudley began to add to his income, they begged her to give
up her work, but she was obdurate, again expressing certain views on
the boon of steady occupation they could not gainsay.

"It is so boring sometimes," Ethel remonstrated, and she answered:

"Not so boring as idleness in the long run, and having to make up your
mind each day what you are going to do next.  The girls who only enjoy
themselves without work little know what they miss in never waking up
in the morning to say, 'Hurray! this is a holiday.'  No! give me my
work and my play well balanced, and I'll turn them into happiness."

It was months before Alymer dared to speak to her of love.  It had
taken him long to win her to the old fooling again; and in a sudden
gladness at some little remark or touch that seemed to show him he was
truly forgiven for his own sake, he told her the story of his love, and
his long waiting.

Hal was very taken aback, and a little unhappy, but when she had
convinced him it was really quite hopeless, he forced himself back to
the old comradeship, and took up his self-imposed burden of waiting
once more.

Then followed a period of rapid successes, during which Hal told him
seriously he must now make a choice among the bevy of beauty, wealth,
and lineage at his disposal.

"You really ought, you know," she said, "out of consideration for all
the poor things left hoping against hope, and the numbers that are
yearly added to them!"

"I have made my choice," he answered; "it is not my fault about the
vain hopes.  It is the obstinacy of one woman, who is keeping the
others in the unfortunate condition you describe."

But she only smiled lightly, and put him off again, concluding with:

"I should be frightened out of my life at possessing anything so
beauteous and attractive in the way of a husband."

So Hermon worked on, and waited, believing in his star.

Yet there were times when the apparent hopelessness of it weighed
heavily on his mind - times when the very lustre of his success seemed
only to mock him, because of that one thing he craved in vain.

It was so when the greatest achievement of his life came to his hands.

It was given him to plead for a woman's life against a charge of
poisoning her husband, pitting his youth and slender experience against
the greatest advocate of the Crown.  The case caused a great stir, and
with a growing wonderment and pride she hardly dared to account for.
Hal followed the newspaper reports day by day.

The evening before the speech for the defence he came to her.  She
greeted him as usual, saying little about his present notoriety, but
she noticed that he looked careworn, as if the strain were becoming too
much for him; and then suddenly he stated his errand.

"I want you to come to the court to-morrow, Hal.  I - I - have a
feeling I want you to be there when I am speaking.  Will you come?"

She looked up doubtfully.

"Why do you want me?"

"I hardly know.  I mean to save this woman if I can.  She did not give
the poison.  I am quite certain of it; but we can't prove it
absolutely.  We can only appeal in such a way to the jury that they
will feel the case is not merely not proven against her, but that she
is innocent.  I think it would inspire me more than anything if you
were there."  He paused, then added: "I love you so much, Hal, I feel
as if I shall save her life if you are there."

Hal looked touched, and agreed to go if he would arrange everything,
and telephone to her what time to arrive.

The next day she went to the court with the card he had given, and
found herself received with the utmost deference, and ushered at once
to a seat reserved for her.

A few minutes afterwards Alymer stood up to make his great speech, and
then Hal heard a subdued murmur around her, and saw that the judge was
watching him with some interest and expectancy.

It was the first time she had seen him in his wig and gown, in court,
and her heart began to beat strangely.  She felt suddenly and
unaccountably incensed with the women all round, who whispered and
gazed.  "What was he to them anyway!  How idiotic of them to murmur to
each other how splendid he looked!  What did he care for their
approval?"

Her heart carried her a little farther.  "What is he to you?..." it
asked.  She felt a sudden warm glow of pride, and her eyes grew very
soft as she watched him.

Then he began to speak, and it seemed as if everything in heaven and
earth has paused to listen.  Surely there was no big thoroughfare with
hurrying multitudes just outside, no continual stream of noisy,
hurrying traffic; no busy newspaper offices awaiting each flying
message - nothing anywhere but that crowded hall, that white-faced
accused woman waiting for death or freedom, that man in his beauty of
manhood and power straining every nerve to save her.

An hour passed.  No one spoke, no one moved.  Sometimes a sob, hastily
stifled, broke the oppresive hush, sometimes a stifled cough.

Alymer rarely raised his voice, for his was no impassioned, heated
declaration.  It was a magnificent piece of quiet oratory, which
carried every one along by its earnestness and convincing calm, and was
intensified by the look upon his noble, resolute face.

After a time every one knew instinctively that he had won.  The tension
grew less taut and more emotinal.  Women began to weep softly and
restrainedly.  Men cleared their throats again and again.  Some one
sitting next to Hal apparently knew him, and knew her.

"My God," he breathed in her ear, "he's magnificent.  He's saved her.
I wouldn't have missed this for anything.  I'm proud to be his friend."

Hal's eyes suddenly filled with tears.  She began to feel dazed and
faint.  It had been too much for her, and the relief was overwhelming.

She thought of Lorraine, and her heart swelled to think he had so
gloriously fulfilled her vast hopes, and crowned all she had done for
him.  She longed that she might have been there, and then felt
mysteriously that she not only was there, but was speaking to her.  In
a vague, unreal, mystical way, Lorraine was pleading with her to give
him his happiness.

She looked again, confusedly, at the big, strong, calm man; and
something that had been growing in her heart for months took shape and
form.

What did the other women matter?  He was hers - hers - hers.  Why stop
to question or demur?  What did anything matter but that he had loved
her so long and faithfully; and that at last she loved him?

In a stress of unendurable emotion, she got up unsteadily, and left the
court.

A quarter of an hour later, Alymer finished his speech, and sat down
instantly turning his head to look for her.  Instead of the familiar,
eager face of the first hour, he saw the empty space, and his
overwrought mind sank to a dull level of bitter disappointment.

She was not impressed, then - not even interested enough to stay until
the end.  Oh, what did it matter?  She was hard - hard, he was a fool
to love her so.

The jury went away and came back with their verdict of "Not guilty."

There was a rush and buzz of congratulations.  He smiled, because he
had to smile, and grasped outstretched hands because he had to grasp
them.  The moment it was possible to get away, he walked blindly and
hurriedly to the entrance, and got into a taxi, before the waiting
crowd had had time to recognise him.

"Where to?" a policeman asked him, and for a moment he was at a loss to
know.  Then he gave Hal's address.  "Better have it out and done with,"
was his thought.  Once for all he would make her tell him if it was
hopeless, and if she said yes, he would go away and try to forget her
in another country.

When he was shown into Hal's little sitting-room, he found her
crouching on a footstool in the firelight, before the fire.  He stood a
moment or two and looked at her, and then he said in a slightly harsh
voice:

"I suppose you hurried away because you were bored.  I thought you
would have stayed until the end.  I was a fool.  Nothing I do ever has
interested you, or ever will."

Hal did not look round.  She was staring into the flames, with her chin
resting in her hands.  When he paused she said calmly:

"I can't hear what you say so far away."

He moved across the room and stood on the hearth beside her, towering
above her, with his eyes on the opposite wall.

"I don't know why I came here at all," he continued; "but it didn't
seem any use going anywhere else.  Why did you run away in the middle!
Did you want to punish my presumption for wishing to try and
distinguish myself before you, as well as save a woman's life and
honour?"

A little smile shone in Hal's eyes, where the firelight caught them.

"I can't hear what you say, right up there, near the ceiling."

He looked down at the dark shapely head, and something in her poise and
in her voice made his heart suddenly begin to thump rather wildly.

"I haven't got a beanstalk," she added.

He leaned a little towards her.

"And if you had?" he asked tensely.

"If I had, I would perhaps climb up it."

He leaned lower still, his heart thumping yet more wildly.

"If you climbed up a ladder like that, you would be bound to climb into
my arms."

"Well - and what if I did?" she said.


THE END.









Produced by Beth Constantine, Charles Aldarondo, Juliet Sutherland
Charles Franks and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.





[Illustration: He put his face close to hers, and stared into her
eyes. _Frontispiece--Awakening of Helena Richie_]



THE AWAKENING OF HELENA RICHIE



By MARGARET DELAND

Author of "Dr Lavendar's People," "Old Cheater Tales," etc.




TO

LORIN DELAND

MAY 12, 1906




CHAPTER I


Dr. Lavendar and Goliath had toiled up the hill to call on old Mr.
Benjamin Wright; when they jogged back in the late afternoon it was
with the peculiar complacency which follows the doing of a
disagreeable duty. Goliath had not liked climbing the hill, for a
heavy rain in the morning had turned the clay to stiff mud, and Dr.
Lavendar had not liked calling on Benjamin Wright.

"But, Daniel," said Dr. Lavendar, addressing a small old dog who took
up a great deal more room on the seat of the buggy than he was
entitled to, "Daniel, my boy, you don't consult your likings in
pastoral calls." Then he looked out of the mud-spattered window of the
buggy, at a house by the roadside--"The Stuffed Animal House," Old
Chester children called it, because its previous owner had been a
taxidermist of some little local renown. "That's another visit I ought
to make," he reflected, "but it can wait until next week. G'long,
Goliath!"

Goliath went along, and Mrs. Frederick Richie, who lived in the
Stuffed Animal House, looking listlessly from an upper window, saw the
hood of the buggy jogging by and smiled suddenly. "Thank Heaven!" she
said.

Benjamin Wright had not thanked Heaven when Dr. Lavendar drove away.
He had been as disagreeable as usual to his visitor, but being a very
lonely old man he enjoyed having a visitor to whom to be disagreeable.
He lived on his hilltop a mile out of Old Chester, with his "nigger"
Simmons, his canary-birds, and his temper. More than thirty years
before he had quarrelled with his only son Samuel, and the two men had
not spoken to each other since. Old Chester never knew what this
quarrel had been about; Dr. Lavendar, speculating upon it as he and
Goliath went squashing through the mud that April afternoon, wondered
which was to blame. "Pot and kettle, probably," he decided. "Samuel's
goodness is very irritating sometimes, and Benjamin's badness is--
well, it's not as distressing as it should be. But what a forlorn old
critter he is! And this Mrs. Richie is lonely too--a widow, with no
children, poor woman! I must call next week. Goliath wouldn't like to
turn round now and climb the hill again. Danny, I fear Goliath is very
selfish."

Goliath's selfishness carried them home and landed Dr. Lavendar at his
own fireside, rather tired and full of good intentions in regard to
calls. He confided these intentions to Dr. William King who looked in
after supper to inquire about his cold.

"Cold? I haven't any cold! You can't get a job here. Sit down and give
me some advice. Hand me a match first; this ragamuffin Danny has gone
to sleep with his head on my foot, and I can't budge."

The doctor produced the match; "I'll advise you not to go out in such
weather. Promise me you won't go out to-morrow."

"To-morrow? Right after breakfast, sir! To make calls on the people
I've neglected. Willy, how can I find a home for an orphan child? A
parson up in the mountains has asked me to see if I can place a little
seven-year-old boy. The child's sister who took care of him has just
died. Do you know anybody who might take him?"

"Well," said Willy King, "there's Mrs. Richie."

Dr. Lavendar looked at him over his spectacles. "Mrs. Frederick
Richie?--though I understand she calls herself Mrs. Helena Richie. I
don't like a young female to use her own name, William, even if she is
a widow! Still, she may be a nice woman I suppose. Do you think a
little boy would have a good home with her?"

"Well," the doctor demurred, "of course, we know very little about
her. She has only been here six months. But I should think she was
just the person to take him. She is mighty good-looking, isn't she?"

"Yes," Dr. Lavendar said, "she is. And other things being equal I
prefer a good-looking woman. But I don't know that her looks are a
guarantee that she can train up a child in the way he should go. Can't
you think of anybody else?"

"I don't see why you don't like Mrs. Richie?" "I never said I didn't
like her," protested Dr. Lavendar; "but she's a widow."

"Unless she murdered the late Richie, that's not against her."

"Widows don't always stay widows, Willy."

"I don't believe she's the marrying kind," William said. "I have a
sort of feeling that the deceased Richie was not the kind of husband
who receives the compliment of a successor--"

"Hold on; you're mixing things up! It's the bad husband and the good
wife that get compliments of that kind."

William laughed as he was expected to, but he stuck to his opinion
that Mrs. Richie had had enough of husbands. "And anyway, she's
devoted to her brother--though he doesn't come to see her very
often."

"There's another point," objected Dr. Lavendar; "what kind of a man is
this Mr. Pryor? Danny growled at him once, which prejudiced me against
him."

"I don't take to him much myself," William King confessed; "though I
must say he seems a decent man enough. He doesn't cultivate
acquaintances in Old Chester, but that only shows bad taste."

"She says he is not very well," Dr. Lavendar explained; "she says he
likes to keep quiet when he comes down here."

"I don't see anything wrong with him."

"Hasn't taken any of your pills? Maybe he doesn't believe in doctors.
I don't myself."

"Thank you," said William King.

"There's too much fuss anyway over our precious carcasses! And you
fellows encourage it," Dr. Lavendar grumbled. Then he said he wished
he knew more about Mrs. Richie. "I ask you for information and all you
say is that she's good-looking, and her brother doesn't take your
pills."

William laughed.

"She doesn't come to church very regularly, and she never stops
afterwards to talk," Dr. Lavendar ruminated.

"Well, she lives 'way up there on the hill road--"

"Yes, she does live pretty far out of town," Dr. Lavendar admitted,
"but that's not a reason for not being neighborly after church."

"She's shy," said William King, "that's all. Shyness isn't anything
very wrong. And she's mighty pleasant when she does talk to you. I
tell you Dr. Lavendar, pleasantness goes a good way in this world. I'd
say it was better than goodness--only they are the same thing."

"No, they're not," said Dr. Lavendar.

"I grant she doesn't belong to the sewing society," William said
grinning. "Martha says that some of the ladies say she doesn't show
proper grief for her husband. She actually smiles sometimes! They say
that if the Lord were to remove _their_ beloved husbands, they would
never smile again."

"William," said Dr. Lavendar chuckling, "I begin to like your widow."

"She's not my widow, thank you! But she's a nice woman, and she must
be pretty lonely up there all by herself."

"Wish I had gone in to see her this afternoon," the old man said
thoughtfully. "As you say she may be a suitable person to take this
little boy. I wonder if she's going to stay in Old Chester?"

"Sam Wright says she has spoken to him of buying the house. That looks
as if she meant to settle down. Did you know that Sam's Sam is casting
sheep's eyes at her?"

"Why, she's old enough to be his mother!" said Dr. Lavendar.

"Oh, no. Sam's Sam is twenty-three, and one of my patients says that
Mrs. Richie will never see forty-five again. Which leads me to
conclude that she's about thirty."

"Of course she doesn't encourage him?" Dr. Lavendar said anxiously.

"She lets him come to see her, and she took him out once in that
wicker-work vehicle she has--looks like a clothes-basket on wheels.
And she provides the clothes to put into it. I'm told they're
beautiful; but that no truly pious female would be willing to decorate
poor flesh and blood with such finery. I'm told--"

"William! Is this the way I've brought you up? To pander to my
besetting sin? Hold your tongue!" Dr. Lavendar rose chuckling, and
stood in front of the fireplace, gathering the tails of his flowered
cashmere dressing-gown under his arms. "But Willy I hope Sam isn't
really smitten? You never can tell what that boy will do."

"Yes, he's a hair-trigger," the doctor agreed, "a hair-trigger! And
his father understands him about as well as--as Danny there
understands Hebrew! I think it's a case of Samuel and his father over
again. Dr. Lavendar, do you suppose anybody will ever know what those
two quarrelled about?"

"Probably not."

"I suppose," William King ruminated, "that you'd call Sam a genius?"

"No, I wouldn't; he has no patience. You can't have genius without
patience. Sam hasn't a particle."

"Well," the doctor explained, "he hasn't the slightest sense of
responsibility; and I notice that when people have no sense of
responsibility, you call them either criminals or geniuses."

"I don't," said Dr. Lavendar dryly, "I call 'em poor critters, either
way. But Willy, about this little boy; the great point is who needs
him? I expect he'll be here on Saturday."

"What! This week? But you haven't found anybody to take him."

"Oh, he'll stay with me for a while, Mary'll look after him. And I'll
play marbles with him. Got any white alleys? Gimme six, and I'll give
you an agate."

"But Dr. Lavendar, that will be a nuisance to you," William King
protested. "Let me take him. Or, at least--I'll ask Martha; she's
house-cleaning now, and she says she's very tired; so I'm not sure--"
William ended weakly.

"No, no; I want him myself," said the old minister.

"Well," Dr. King said with evident relief, "shall I speak to Mrs.
Richie about him? I'm going up there to-morrow; she's got a sick cook,
and she asked me to call. What's his name?"

"David Allison. You might sound her William, but don't be definite.
Don't give her any chance to say yes or no. I want to know her a
little better before I make up my mind. When the boy comes I'll happen
along in my buggy with him, and then we'll see. And meantime Willy,
keep your eye on Sam's Sam. He mustn't get too much interested up
there. A little falling in love with an older woman doesn't hurt most
boys; in fact, it's part of their growing up and likely as not it does
'em good. But Sam's Sam isn't like most boys."

"That's so," said William King, "he may not be a genius and he
certainly isn't a criminal, but he has about as much stability as a
sky-rocket."




CHAPTER II


"You can't think of anybody who might like to take this little David
Allison, can you, my dear?" William King asked his wife at breakfast
the next morning.

"I certainly cannot," Martha said decidedly. "I think it's a very
dangerous thing to take unknown children into your family. I suppose
you think I ought to offer to do it? But in the first place, I'm very
tired, and in the second place, I don't like boys. If it was a girl it
might be different."

"No doubt we could find a girl," William began, but she interrupted
him.

"Girls are a great expense. And then, as I said--unknown children!--
they might turn into anything. They might have evil tendencies; they
probably have. If the parents die early, it's a sign of weakness of
some sort. I've no doubt this boy's father drank. I don't want to seem
unkind, but I must say flatly and frankly that considering how hard it
is for us to make both ends meet--as you keep up a sort of free
practice--I don't think it's prudent to suggest any new
responsibilities and expenses."

"Oh, I wasn't making suggestions," William King said. "I guess we're
not the people to bring up a child. I'd spoil him, I've no doubt."

"I'm sure you would!" Martha said, greatly relieved. "It would be the
worst possible thing for him. But Willy, there's that Mrs. Richie?"

"You think his evil tendencies wouldn't hurt her?" the doctor said
dryly.

"I think she's a rich woman, so why shouldn't she do a thing like
that? I'll go and see her if you want me to--though she never makes
you feel welcome; and tell her about the boy?"

"You needn't bother; Dr. Lavendar will see her himself."

"I don't understand that woman," Mrs. King said. "She keeps herself to
herself too much. It almost looks as if she didn't think we were good
enough to associate with her!"

William made no reply.

"Willy, does she use perfumery?"

"How in the world should I know!"

"Well, there's a sort of fragrance about her. It isn't like cologne,
it's like--well, orris-root."

William made no comment.

"It's a kind of sachet, I guess; I'd like to know what it is. Willy,
Sam Wright's Sam went out walking with her yesterday. I met them on
the River Road. I believe the boy is in love with her!"

"He's got eyes," William agreed.

"_Tck!_" said Martha, "the idea of calling her good-looking! And
I don't think it speaks well for a woman of her age--she's forty if
she's a day--to let a boy trail round after her like that. And to fix
herself up with sachet-powders and things. And her Sarah told the
Draytons' Jean that she had her breakfast in bed every morning! I'd
like to know how my housekeeping would go on if _I_ had breakfast
in bed, though dear knows I'm very tired and it would be pleasant
enough. But there's one thing about me: I may not be perfect, but I
don't do lazy things just because they are pleasant."

The doctor made no defence of Mrs. Richie. Instead he asked for
another cup of coffee and when told that it would not be good for him,
got up, then paused patiently, his hand on the door-knob, to hear his
Martha out.

"William, what do you suppose is the last thing Sam Wright's Sam has
done?"

The doctor confessed his ignorance.

"Well, his father sent him to Mercer on Monday to buy supplies for the
bank. He gave him seventy-five dollars. Back comes my young gentleman
with--what do you suppose? A lot of pictures of actors and actresses!
And no supplies."

"What! you don't mean he spent the money on the pictures?"

"Every bit of it! His mother came in and told me about it last night.
She said his father was frantic. She was dreadfully upset herself. As
for Sam, he kept saying that the 'prints,' as he called them, were
very valuable. Though I'm sure I can't see why; they were only of
actor people, and they had all died sixty or seventy years ago."

"Actors!" the doctor said. "Poor Samuel! he hates the theatre. I do
believe he'd rather have pictures of the devil."

"Oh, but wait. You haven't heard the rest of it. It appears that when
the boy looked at 'em yesterday morning he found they weren't as
valuable as he thought--I don't understand that part of it," Martha
acknowledged--"so what does he do but march downstairs, and put 'em
all in the kitchen stove! What do you think of that?"

"I think," said William King, "that he has always gone off at half-
cock ever since he was born. But Martha, the serious thing is his
spending money that didn't belong to him."

"I should think it was serious! If he'd been some poor little clerk in
the bank, instead of Mr. Samuel Wright's only son, he would have found
it was serious! Willy, what do you make of him?"

"He is queer," William said; "queer as Dick's hatband; but that's all.
Sam wouldn't do a mean thing, or a dirty thing, any more than a girl
would."

"And now he thinks he's in love with this Richie woman," Martha went
on--but William made his escape. He had to go and hitch up, he said.

Before he took Jinny out of her stall he went into the harness-room
and hunted about on a shelf until, behind a rusty currycomb and two
empty oil-bottles, he found a small mirror. It was misty and flecked
with clear spots where the quicksilver had dropped away, but when he
propped it against the cobwebbed window he could see himself fairly
well. Staring into its dim depths he retied his necktie; then he
backed the buggy out of the carriage-house. But after he had put his
mare between the shafts he hesitated.... The buggy was very shabby; it
sagged badly on the right side and there was a rent in the faded
cushion. The doctor looked at his watch.... Then, hurriedly, led Jinny
back to her stall, got a bucket of water and a sponge, and washed off
the dashboard and wheels. After that he fumbled along a dusty beam to
find a bottle of oil with which he touched up the harness. But when
all was done he shook his head. The buggy was hopeless. Nevertheless,
when he climbed in and slapped Jinny's flank with the newly oiled rein
he was careful to sit in the middle of the seat to make the springs
truer, and he avoided the mud-puddles on the road up to the Stuffed
Animal House. There were a good many puddles, for it had rained the
day before. To-day the clouds had gathered up behind the hills into
white domes, but the sky was that faint April blue that dims easily
into warm mists. There was the smell of earth, the fainter scent of
unopened buds, and from the garden borders of the Stuffed Animal House
came the pungent odor of box.

Helena Richie, standing by a bed of crown-imperials, bareheaded, a
trowel in her gloved hand, her smooth cheek flushed with the unwonted
exertion of planting seeds, caught the exquisite breath of the box,
and sighed; then, listlessly, she turned to walk back towards the
house. Before she reached it the gate clicked and Dr. King came up the
path. She saw him and looked hurriedly about, as if seeking a way of
escape, but it was too late.

"Gardening?" he called to her.

"Yes," she said, and her smile like reluctant sunshine did not betray
to the doctor that he was not welcome.

"Don't work too hard," he cautioned her. It seemed to William King,
looking at her with wondering admiration, that she was too delicate a
creature to handle a trowel. There was a certain soft indolence in the
way she moved that was a delight to his eye. It occurred to him that
he would ask his Martha why she didn't wear gardening-gloves. Mrs.
Richie wore them, and as she pulled one off he saw how soft and white
her hand was....

"How's the patient?" he asked.

"Poor Maggie? Oh, she's pretty uncomfortable I'm afraid."

They had gone together to the front porch, and as she stood on the
lower step looking up at him, the sunshine suddenly filled her eyes
with limpid brown light. "Maggie is in her room in the ell--the first
door on the left. Shall I show you the way?"

"I know the way," he said.

Mrs. Richie sat down on the porch step to wait for him. She had
nothing else to do. She never had anything to do. She had tried to be
interested in the garden, and bought a trowel and some seeds and
wandered out into the borders; but a manufactured interest has no
staying quality--especially if it involves any hard work. She was glad
when William King came back and sat down beside her; sickness was not
an agreeable topic, but it was a topic.

"Maggie will be all right in two or three days, but don't let her go
into the kitchen before Monday. A bad throat pulls you down. And she's
had a good deal of pain."

"Oh, poor Maggie!" she said wincing.

"A sore throat is nothing so very dreadful," William assured her with
open amusement.

She drew a breath of relief. "Oh, I'm glad! I can't bear to think of
pain." Then she looked at him anxiously. "Don't you think she can cook
before Monday? I'm so tired of scrappy dinners.

"I'm afraid not," William King said. "I'm very sorry." But that his
sorrow was not for Maggie was evident.

"Oh, dear!" said Mrs. Richie; and then her eyes crinkled with gayety
at his concern. "I don't really mind, Dr. King."

"I shouldn't blame you if you did. Nobody likes scrappy dinners. I
wish you would come down and have dinner with us?"

"Oh, thank you, no," she said. And the sudden shy retreat into her
habitual reserve was followed by a silence that suggested departure to
the doctor. As he got up he remembered Dr. Lavendar and the little
boy, but he was at a loss how to introduce the subject. In his
perplexity he frowned, and Mrs. Richie said quickly:

"Of course she sha'n't do any work. I'm not so bad-tempered as you
think; I only meant that I don't like discomfort."

"_You_ bad-tempered?" he said. "No, indeed! You're just the opposite.
That's why I suggested you when I heard about this boy."

"What boy?"

"Why, a little fellow of seven--David his name is--that Dr. Lavendar
is trying to find a home for. And I thought perhaps you--"

"--would take him?" cried Mrs. Richie in astonishment, and then she
laughed. "_I!_"

"Why, it occurred to me that perhaps you might be lonely, and--"

Helena Richie stopped laughing; she pulled off her other glove and
looked down at her white hands. "Well, yes, I'm lonely. But--I don't
like children, Dr. King."

"You don't?" he said blankly, and in his surprise he sat down again.
"Oh, I'm sure that's only because you don't know them. If you had ever
known a child--"

"I have," Mrs. Richie said, "one." Her voice was bleak; the gayety had
dropped out of it; for an instant she looked old. William King
understood.

"It died?"

She nodded. She began to pull her gloves on again, smoothing down each
finger carefully and not looking at him.

"A little girl?"

"Boy." She turned her face away, but he saw her chin tremble. There
was a moment's silence; then the doctor said with curious harshness.

"Well, anyhow, you know what it means to have owned your own."

"Better not have known!"

"I can't feel that. But perhaps I don't understand."

"You don't understand." Her head, with its two soft braids wound
around it like a wreath, was bent so that he could not see her face.
"Dr. King, his father--hurt him. Yes; hurt a little baby, eight
months and twelve days old. He died seven weeks later."

William drew in his breath; he found no words.

"That was twelve years ago, but I can't seem to--to get over it," she
said with a sort of gasp.

"But how--" Dr. King began.

"Oh, he was not himself. He was--happy, I believe you call it
'happy'?"

"How did you bear it!"

"I didn't bear it I suppose. I never have borne it!"

"Did he repent before he died?" William King said passionately.

"Before he--?" Her voice suddenly shook; she made elaborate pretence
of calmness, fastening her gloves and looking at them critically; then
she said: "Yes, Dr. King; he repented. He repented!"

"If there ever was excuse for divorce, you had it!"

"You don't think there ever is?" she asked absently.

"No," William said. "I suppose you'll think I'm very old-fashioned,
but I don't, unless--" he stopped short; he could not have put his
qualifying thought into words to any woman, especially not to this
woman, so like a girl in spite of her thirty-odd years. "You see," he
said, awkwardly, "it's such an unusual thing. It never happened in Old
Chester; why, I don't believe I ever saw a--a divorced person in my
life!"

"Well," she said, "anyhow, I didn't get a divorce."

"Mrs. Richie!" he said, blushing to his temples, "you didn't think I
thought of such a thing?"

But it was plain that she regretted her confidence; she rose with the
evident purpose of changing the subject. "I must go and put in some
more seeds. Why doesn't Dr. Lavendar keep this little boy? After all,
he's lonely himself."

"Well, he's an old man you know, and--"

"Dr. King," she broke in, "I don't mind having the child here for a
week while Dr. Lavendar is looking for somebody to take him. Not
longer. It wouldn't do. Really it wouldn't. But for a week, perhaps,
or maybe two!"

"That would be a great help," William King said. "Then Dr. Lavendar
can have plenty of time to find a home for him. I would have been glad
to take him myself, but just at present it happens that it is not--I
should say, Mrs. King is very tired, and--"

"It is perfectly convenient for me," Mrs. Richie said, "if you'll only
cure Maggie! You must cure Maggie, so that she can make cookies for
him."

"I'll cure Maggie," the doctor assured her smiling, and went away much
pleased with himself. But when he got into his shabby old buggy he
sighed.

"Poor soul!" he said. "Poor soul!"




CHAPTER III


William King reported the result of his call to Dr. Lavendar, and
when he told the tragic story of the dead baby the old man blinked and
shook his head.

"Do you wonder she doesn't call herself Mrs. _Frederick_ Richie?"
William demanded. "I don't!"

"No; that's natural, that's natural," Dr. Lavendar admitted.

"I suppose it was a dreadful thing to say," said William, "but I just
burst out and said that if ever there was an excuse for divorce, she
had it!"

"What did she say?"

"Oh, of course, that she hadn't been divorced. I was ashamed of myself
the next minute for speaking of such a thing."

"Poor child," said Dr. Lavendar, "living up there alone, and with such
memories! I guess you're right; I guess she'd like to have little
David, if only for company. But I think I'll keep him for a week or
two myself, and let her get sort of acquainted with him under my eye.
That will give me a chance to get acquainted with her. But to think I
haven't known about that baby until now! It must be my fault that she
was not drawn to tell me. But I'm afraid I wasn't drawn to her just at
first."

Yet Dr. Lavendar was not altogether at fault. This newcomer in Old
Chester was still a stranger to everybody, except to Sam Wright's Sam
and to William King. To be sure, as soon as she was settled in her
house Old Chester had called and asked her to tea, and was confused
and annoyed because its invitations were not accepted. Furthermore,
she did not return the calls. She went to church, but not very
regularly, and she never stopped to gossip in the vestibule or the
church-yard. Even with Dr. Lavendar she was remote. The first time he
went to see her he asked, with his usual directness, one or two
questions: Did Mr. Pryor live in Mercer? No; he had business that
brought him there occasionally. Where did he live? In Philadelphia.
Had she any relatives in this part of the world--except her brother?
No, none; none anywhere. Was Mr. Pryor married? Yes. Had he any
family? One daughter; his wife was dead. "And you have lost your
husband?" Dr. Lavendar said, gently. "This is a lonely life for you
here, I am afraid."

But she said oh, no; not at all; she liked the quiet. Then, with faint
impatience as if she did not care to talk about her own affairs, she
added that she had always lived in the East; "but I find it very
pleasant here," she ended vaguely.

Dr. Lavendar had gone away uneasy and puzzled. Why didn't she live
with her brother? Family differences no doubt. Curious how families
fall out! "You'd think they'd be glad to hang together," the solitary
old man thought; "and they are not necessarily bad folk who quarrel.
Look at Sam and his boy. Both of 'em good as gold. But it's in the
blood there," he said to himself sighing.

Sam and his son were not bad folk. The boy had nothing bad about him;
nothing worse than an unexpectedness that had provided Old Chester
with smiles for many years. "No; he is not bad; I have seen to
_that_," his father used to say. "He's hardly been out of my sight
twenty-four hours at a time. And I put my foot down on college
with all its temptations. He's good--if he's nothing else!" And
certainly Samuel Wright was good too. Everybody in Old Chester said
so. He said so himself. "I, my dear Eliza, have nothing with which to
reproach myself," he used to tell his wife ponderously in moments of
conjugal unbending. "I have done my duty. I always do my duty; under
all circumstances. I am doing my duty now by Sam."

This was when he and his son fell out on one point or another, as they
had begun to do as soon as young Sam learned to talk; and all because
the father insisted upon furnishing the boy with his own most
excellent principles and theories, instead of letting the lad
manufacture such things for himself. Now when Sam was twenty-three the
falling-out had become chronic. No doubt it was in the blood, as Dr.
Lavendar said. Some thirty years before, Sam senior, then a slim and
dreamy youth, light-hearted and given to writing verses, had fallen
out with his father, old Benjamin Wright; fallen out so finally that
in all these years since, the two men, father and son, had not spoken
one word to each other. If anybody might have been supposed to know
the cause of that thirty-year-old feud it was Dr. Lavendar. He
certainly saw the beginning of it....

One stormy March evening Samuel Wright, then twenty-four years old,
knocked at the Rectory door; Dr. Lavendar, shielding his lamp from the
wind with one hand, opened it himself.

"Why, Sam, my boy," he said and stopped abruptly. He led the way into
his study and put the lamp down on the table. "Something is the
matter?"

"Yes."

"What is it, Samuel?"

"I can't tell you, sir."

"Does your father know?"

"My father knows.... I will tell you this, Dr. Lavendar--that so help
me God, I will never speak to my father again."

The young man lifted one hand; his face was dreadful to look upon.
Then trying to speak in a natural voice he asked if he might stay at
the Rectory for that night.

Dr. Lavendar took two turns about his study, then he said, "Of course
you may, Samuel, but I shall feel it my duty to acquaint your father
with the fact."

"Just as you please, sir."

"And Sam--I hope the night will bring wisdom."

Sam was silent.

"I shall see your father in the morning and try to clear this thing
up."

"Just as you please, sir. I would like to go to my room now if you
have no objection."

And that was all Dr. Lavendar got out of the son.

He lighted a lamp and silently preceded his guest up-stairs; then he
went back to his study and wrote a line to the father. He sent it out
to the Wright house and sat up until midnight waiting for an answer.
None came. "Well," said Dr. Lavendar at last trudging up to bed, "the
boy comes by his obstinacy honestly." The next morning he went early
to see Mr. Benjamin Wright. But as far as any straightening out of the
trouble went or any enlightenment as to its cause, he might as well
have stayed at home.

"Sam send you?"

"No; I came to see what I could do for you both. I take it for granted
that Sam is at fault in some way? But he is a good boy, so I am sure
he can be made to see his error."

"Did he tell you what was the trouble?"

"No; will you?"

"Let him come back and behave himself!" the older man said.

Dr. Lavendar thrust out his lower lip with a thoughtful frown. "It
would expedite things, Wright, if you could tell me a little about the
affair?"

Mr. Wright hesitated. He thrust his hand down into a blue ginger-jar
for a piece of dried orange-skin and bit at it as if to steady his
lips. "Sam can tell you if he wants to. He has perhaps informed you
that he wishes to see the world? That he thinks life here very narrow?
No? Well, I sha'n't quote him. All I shall say, is that I am doing my
duty to him. I've always done my duty to him. If he sees fit to set up
his own Ebenezer, and say he won't speak to me--I suppose he conveyed
that filial sentiment to you?--he can do so. When he gets hungry he
can speak. That's what other puppies do when they are hungry."

And that was all Dr. Lavendar got out of the father....

This was thirty-two years ago. Sain Wright may have been hungry, but
he never spoke. Instead, he worked. Old Chester seethed with curiosity
for a while--to see Benjamin Wright pass his son with a contemptuous
stare, to see Sam pass his father without a glance was very exciting.
But excitement ebbs in thirty-two years. For one thing, old Mr. Wright
came less often into town--because he could not bear to meet his son,
people said; and Samuel never took the hill road out of Old Chester
for a corresponding reason. Furthermore, it was hard to connect Samuel
with anything so irrational as a quarrel, for every year he grew in
solemn common sense. Benjamin Wright's growth was all in the way of
temper; at least so his boy Simmons, a freckled mulatto of sixty
years, informed Old Chester.

"He 'ain't got no human feelin's, 'cept for them there canaries,"
Simmons used to say in an aggrieved voice; "he'll stand and look at
'em and chirp to 'em by the hour--an' 'en he'll turn round and swear
at you 'nough to take your leg off," Simmons said, bitterly. Simmons
did his best for the canaries which he detested, cleaning out the
cages and scraping the perches and seeing that the seed-trays and
bath-tubs were always full; he did his best conscientiously, and it
was hard to be "swore at when you 'ain't done nothin'." Perhaps
Benjamin Wright had some "human feelings" for his grandson, Sam; but
certainly Simmons's opinion was justified by his treatment of his
granddaughters. When by their father's orders the little girls came up
to the lonely house on the hill, the old man used to pitch small coins
to them and tell them to go and look at the canaries,--"and then clear
out. Simmons, give 'em some cake or something! Good-by. Good-by. Clear
out." Long before he had settled into such dreary living, the son with
whom he had quarrelled had made a life of his own. His slimness and
gayety had disappeared as well as his dreaminess and versifying
instincts. "Poetry?" he had been heard to say, "why, there isn't a
poem that was ever written that I'd take five minutes out of my
business to read!" It seemed as if the quarrel had wrenched him from
the grooves, physical and spiritual, in which Nature had meant him to
run and started him on lines of hard common sense. He was intensely
positive; heavy and pompous and painfully literal; inclined to lay
down the law to everybody; richer than most of us in Old Chester, and
full of solemn responsibilities as burgess and senior warden and
banker. His air of aggressive integrity used to make the honestest of
us feel as if we had been picking pockets! Yes; a good man, as Old
Chester said.

Years ago Dr. Lavendar had given up trying to reconcile the two
Wrights; years ago Old Chester's speculations languished and died out.
Once in a while some one remembered the quarrel and said, "What in the
world could it have been about?" And once in a while Samuel's own
children asked awkward questions. "Mother, what was father's row with
grandfather?" And Mrs. Wright's answer was as direct as the question.
"I don't know. He never told me."

When this reply was made to young Sam he dropped the subject. He had
but faint interest in his father, and his grandfather with whom he
took tea every Sunday night was too important a person to connect with
so trivial an affair as a quarrel.

This matter of offspring is certainly very curious. Why should the
solid Samuel Wright and his foolish, obedient Eliza have brought into
the world a being of mist and fire? A beautiful youth, who laughed or
wept or sung aloud, indifferent to all about him! Sometimes Sam senior
used to look at his son and shake his head in bewildered astonishment;
but often he was angry, and oftener still--though this he never
admitted--hurt. The boy, always impersonally amiable, never thought it
worth while to explain himself; partly because he was not interested
in his father's opinion of his conduct, and partly because he knew he
could not make himself understood.

"But who, my dear Eliza," Samuel would say to his wife--"who could
understand such a boy? Look at this last performance of his!
Purchasing pictures of _actors_! Where does he get such low
tastes?--unless some of your family were interested in such things?"

"Oh no, Samuel; no, indeed," Mrs. Wright protested nervously.

"And to use money not his own! Do you know what that is called, my
dear Eliza? It is called--"

"Oh don't, Samuel." whimpered the poor mother.

"And to think how carefully I have trained him! And all I have done
for him. I let him buy that skiff he said he wanted. Absolute waste of
money! Our old rowboat is good enough for the girls, so why isn't it
good enough for him? And I never laid a hand on him in punishment
either; not many fathers can say that."

As for the bank supplies young Sam had explained to his mother that
they had been ordered and charged, so what _was_ the matter? And
Mrs. Wright kneading her tear-soaked handkerchief into a ball, cried
some more and said:

"Oh, Sam dear, why do you act so?"

Sam looked at her attentively, wondering why her little nose always
reddened when she cried. But he waited patiently, until she finished
her rambling reproaches. It occurred to him that he would tell Mrs.
Richie all about this matter of the prints. "She will understand," he
thought.

Sam's acquaintance with Mrs. Richie had begun when she was getting
settled in her new house. Sam senior, having no desire to climb the
hill road, sent his various communications to his tenant by his son,
and afterwards Sam junior had communications of his own to make. He
fell into the habit of stopping there on Sunday afternoons, quite
oblivious of the fact that Mrs. Richie did not display any pleasure at
seeing him. After one of these calls he was apt to be late in reaching
"The Top," as his grandfather's place was called, and old Benjamin
Wright, in his brown wig and moth-eaten beaver hat, would glare at him
with melancholy dark eyes.

"Gad-a-mercy, what do you mean,--getting here at six-five! I have my
tea at six, sir; at six sharp. Either get here on time or stay away. I
don't care which. Do you hear?"

"Yes, sir," young Sam would murmur.

"Where have you been? Mooning after that female at the Stuffed Animal
House?"

"I had to leave a message, sir, about the lease."

"How long does it take to leave a message about a lease?"

"She was not down-stairs and I had to wait--"

"_I_ had to wait! That's more to the point. There, don't talk about
it. You drive me crazy with your chatter."

Then they would sit down to supper in a black silence only broken by
an occasional twitter from one of the many cages that hung about the
room. But afterwards young Sam had his reward; the library, a toby,
long before he was old enough to smoke, and his grandfather reading
aloud in a wonderful voice, deep, sonorous, flexible--Shakespeare,
Massinger, Beaumont and Fletcher. To be sure, there was nothing
personal in such reading--it was not done to give pleasure to young
Sam. Every night the old man rumbled out the stately lines, sitting by
himself in this gloomy room walled to the ceiling with books, and
warmed by a soft-coal fire that snapped and bubbled behind the iron
bars of the grate. Sometimes he would burst into angry ecstasy at the
beauty of what he read "There! What do you think of that?"

"Oh, it's splendid!"

"Hah! Much you know about it! There is about as much poetry in your
family as there is in that coal scuttle."

It was when he was eighteen that once the old man let his grandson
read _The Tempest_ with him. It was a tremendous evening to Sam.
In the first place, his grandfather swore at him with a fury that
really attracted his attention. But that night the joy of the drama
suddenly possessed him. The deed was done; the dreaming youth awoke to
the passion of art. As Benjamin Wright gradually became aware of it
delight struggled with his customary anger at anything unexpected. He
longed to share his pleasure with somebody; once he mentioned to Dr.
Lavendar that "that cub, Sam, really has something to him!" After that
he took the boy's training seriously in hand, and his artless pride
concealed itself in a severity that knew no bounds of words. When Sam
confessed his wish to write a drama in blank verse, his grandfather
swore at him eagerly and demanded every detail of what he called the
"fool plot of the thing."

"What does that female at the Stuffed Animal House say to the idea of
your writing a drama?" he asked contemptuously.

"She says I may read it to her."

"Knows as much about dramatic poetry as you do I suppose? When you
finish the first act bring it to me. I'll tell you how bad it is."

His eager scoffing betrayed him, and every Sunday night, in spite of
slaughtering criticism the boy took courage to talk of his poem. He
had no criticism from Mrs. Richie.

When he first began to call at the Stuffed Animal House she had been
coldly impatient, then uneasy then snubbing. But nothing can be so
obtuse as a boy; it never occurs to him that he is not wanted. Sam
continued to call and to tell her of his play and to look at her with
beautiful, tragic eyes, that by and by openly adored. Inevitably the
coldness to which he was so calmly impervious wore off; a boy's
innocent devotion must touch any woman no matter how self-absorbed she
may be. Mrs. Richie began to be glad to see him. As for his drama, it
was beautiful, she said.

"No," Sam told her, "it isn't--yet. You don't know. But I like to read
it to you, even if you don't." His candor made her laugh, and before
she knew it in spite of the difference in their years they were
friends As William King said, she was lonely, and Sam's devotion was
at least an interest. Besides, she really liked the boy; he amused
her, and her empty days were so devoid of amusement! "I can't read
novels _all_ the time," she complained. In this very bread-and-butter
sort of interest she had no thought of possible consequences to
Sam. A certain pleasant indolence of mind made it easy not to think of
consequences at all. But he had begun to love her--with that first
passion of youth so divinely tender and ridiculous! After a while he
talked less of his play and more of himself. He told her of his
difficulties at home, how he hated the bank, and how stupid the girls
were.

"Lydia is the nicest, but she has no more imagination than a turnip.
They are very uninteresting--my family," he said meditatively. "I
don't like any of them--except mother. Mother hasn't any sense, but
she's good," Sam ended earnestly.

"Oh, but you mustn't say things like that!"

"Why not? They're true," he said with a surprised look.

"Well, but we don't always tell the truth right out," she reminded
him.

"I do," said Sam, and then explained that he didn't include his
grandfather in his generalization. "Grandfather's bully; you ought to
hear him swear!"

"Oh, I don't want to!" she said horrified.

"I told him that I burned the prints up," Sam went on. "And he said,
'good riddance to bad rubbish.' That was just like grandfather! Of
course he did say that I was a d--I mean, a fool, to buy them in the
first place; and I knew I was. But having bought them, the only thing
to do was to burn them. But father!--"

Mrs. Richie's eyes crinkled with mischievous gayety. "Poor Mr.
Wright!"

Sam dropped his clasped hands between his knees. "It's queer how I
always do the wrong thing. Though it never seems wrong to me. You know
father would not let me go to college for fear I'd go to the devil?"
he laughed joyously. "But I might just as well, for be thinks
everything I do in Old Chester is wrong." Then he sighed. "Sometimes I
get pretty tired of being disapproved of;--especially as I never can
understand why it is. The fact is people are not reasonable," he
complained. "I can bear anything but unreasonableness."

She nodded. "I know, I never could please my grandmother--she brought
me up. My mother and father died when I was a baby. I think
grandmother hated me; she thought everything I did was wrong. Oh, I
was so miserable! And when I was eighteen I got married--and that was
a mistake."

Sam gazed up at her in silent sympathy,

"I mean my--husband was so much older than I," she said. Then with an
evident effort to change the subject she added that one would think it
would be simple enough to be happy; "all my life I only wanted to be
happy," she said.

"You're happy now, aren't you?" he asked,

She looked down at him--he was sitting on a stool before the fire near
her feet--and laughed with a catching of the breath. "Oh, yes, yes;
I'm happy."

And Sara caught his breath too, for there were tears in her eyes.

But instantly she veered away from personalities. "What is that scar
on your wrist?"

Sam looked down at his hands clasped about his knees, and blushed
faintly. "Oh, nothing; I was very young when that happened."

"How did it happen?" she asked absently. It was often possible to
start Sam talking and then think her own thoughts without
interruption.

"Why, I was about twelve, I believe," Sam said, "and Miss Ellen
Bailey--she used to teach school here, then she got married and went
out West;--she gave me a little gold image of Pasht, at least I
thought it was gold. It was one of those things you ladies wear on
your watch-chains, you know,"

"Yes?" she said indolently.

"Well, I took a tremendous fancy to it. But it seems it wasn't gold,
it was brass, and somebody told me so; I think it was Miss Ellen
herself. I was so disappointed, I didn't want to live--queer! I can
remember now just how I felt; a sort of sinking, here;" Sam laid his
hand on his breast, "So I decided to throw myself out of the window. I
did; but unfortunately--"

 "You threw yourself out of the window!" she is interrupted horrified.

Sam laughed. "Oh, well, I wasn't successful: I continued to live.
Unfortunately my trousers caught on the grape trellis under the
window, and there I hung! It must have been pretty funny--though I
didn't think so at the time. First place, I tore my wrist on a nail--
that's the scar; and then father caught me and sent me to bed for
being a fool; so I didn't gain anything." His lip drooped. His feeling
for his father was a candid mixture of amusement and contempt.

"But do you always act on the spur of the moment?" she said
astonished.

Sam laughed and said he supposed so. "I am a good deal of a fool," he
added simply.

"Well," she said sighing, "it's dangerous to be like that. I know,
because I--I am a good deal of a fool myself." Then again, abruptly,
she changed the subject. "What do you think? I'm going to have some
company!"

Sam frowned. "Your brother?"

"No, oh no; not--Mr. Pryor." Then she told him that Dr. Lavendar had
asked her if she would look after a little boy for him for a few
weeks.

Sam was not responsive. Little boys were a great deal of trouble, he
said.

"Come now; how long since--"

Sam's limpid deer's-eyes reproached her silently.

"How shall I amuse him?" she said.

And Sam eager to serve her promised to find a pair of rabbits for the
child. "I used to like rabbits when I was young," he explained.

At last, after his hostess had swallowed many yawns, Sam reluctantly
said good night. He went bounding down the hill in the darkness,
across the fields, through the woods. In the starlight, the great
world lay dim and lovely before him--it belonged to him! He felt the
joyous buffet of the night wind upon his face, the brush of boughs
against his shoulder, the scent of young ferns, and the give of the
spongy earth under his feet; he sprang in long leaps over the grass,
the tears were wet upon his fresh cheeks, he sang aloud. But he did
not know what he sang; in his young breast, Love, like some warm
living thing, stirred, and lifted glorious wings and drove his voice
throbbing and exultant to his lips! As he came down Main Street, the
church clock struck eleven. But it might have struck twelve and he
would not have been disturbed.

Standing in the doorway of the Wright house in thunderous silence the
senior warden, lamp in hand awaited his son. As Sam entered, the
silence broke into a flash of crackling and scathing contempt.

"It does not occur to you, sir, I suppose, that a lady may find your
society tiresome? It is after eleven!"

Sam smiling to himself hung up his hat. He was reflecting that he must
see about those rabbits at once.

"You will understand, sir, if you please, that while you do me the
honor to live under my roof you will return to it at night at a
respectable hour. I will not sit up for you in this way. You will be
in at ten o'clock. Do you hear?"

"Yes, sir," said Sam; and added with sudden awakening of interest, "if
you would let me have a key, father, I--"

"I will not let you have a key! I will have no boy entering my house
at midnight with a key! Do you understand?"

"Yes, sir," Sam murmured falling back into his own thoughts.

Mr. Wright, still talking, stood at the foot of the stairs so that his
son could not pass him. Sam yawned, then noticed how in oratorical
denunciation his father's long upper lip curved like the beak of a
bird of prey; behind his hand he tried to arch his own lip in the same
manner. He really did not hear what was said to him; he only sighed
with relief when it was over and he was allowed to go up-stairs and
tumble sleepily into bed.

As for his long-suffering hostess, when she was alone Helena Richie
rubbed her eyes and began to wake up. "That boy never knows when to
go!" she said to herself with amused impatience. Then her mind turned
to her own affairs. This little boy, David Allison, would be in Old
Chester on Saturday; he was to stay with Dr. Lavendar for a while, and
then come to her for a week or two. But she was beginning to regret
the invitation she had sent through Dr. King. It, would be pleasant to
have the little fellow, but "I can't keep him. so why should I take
him even for a week? I might get fond of him! I'm afraid it's a
mistake. I wonder what Lloyd would think? I don't believe he really
loves children. And yet--he cared when the baby died."

She pulled a low chair up to the hearth and sat down, her elbows on
her knees, her fingers ruffling the soft locks about her forehead.
"Oh, my baby! my little, little baby!" she said in a broken whisper.
The old passion of misery swept over her; she shrank lower in her
chair, rocking herself to and fro, her fingers pressed against her
eyes. It was thirteen years ago, and yet even now in these placid days
in Old Chester, to think of that time brought the breathless smother
of agony back again--the dying child, the foolish brute who had done
him to death.... If the baby had lived he would be nearly fourteen
years old now; a big boy! She wondered whether his hair would still
have been curly? She knew in her heart that she never could have had
the courage to cut those soft curls off--and yet, boys hated curls,
she thought; and smiled proudly. He would have been so manly! If he
had lived, how different everything would have been, how incredibly
different! For of course, if he had lived she would have been happy in
spite of Frederick. And happiness was all she wanted.

She brushed the tears from her flushed cheeks, and propping her chin
in her hands stared into the fire, thinking--thinking.... Her
childhood had been passed with her father's mother, a silent woman who
with bitter expectation of success had set herself to discover in
Helena traits of the poor, dead, foolish wife who had broken her son's
heart. "Grandmamma hated me," Helena Richie reflected. "She begrudged
me the least little bit of pleasure." Yet her feeling towards the hard
old woman now was not resentment; it was only wonder. "_Why_ didn't
she like me to be happy?" she thought. It never occurred to her
that her grandmother who had guarded and distrusted her had also loved
her. "Of course I never loved her," she reminded herself, "but I
wouldn't have wanted her to be unhappy. She wanted me to be wretched.
Curious!" Yet she realized that at that time she had not desired love;
she had only desired happiness. Looking back, she pondered on her
astounding immaturity; what a child she had been to imagine that
merely to get away from that gray life with her grandmother would be
happiness, and so had married Frederick. Frederick.... She was
eighteen, and so pretty. She smiled remembering how pretty she was.
And Frederick had made such promises! She was to have every kind of
happiness. Of course she had married him. Thinking of it now, she did
not in the least blame herself. If the dungeon doors open and the
prisoner catches a glimpse of the green world of sunshine, what
happens? Of course she had married Frederick! As for love, she never
thought of it; it did not enter into the bargain--at least on her
part. She married him because he wanted her to, and because he would
make her happy. And, oh, how glad her grandmother had been! At the
memory of that passionate satisfaction, Helena clasped her hands over
the two brown braids that folded like a chaplet around her head and
laughed aloud, the tears still glittering on her lashes. Her prayers,
her grandmother said, had been answered; the girl was safe--an honest
wife! "Now lettest Thou Thy servant--" the old woman murmured, with
dreadful gratitude in her voice.

Thinking of that gratitude, the tears dried upon Helena's cheeks, hot
with the firelight and with her thoughts. "Suppose she had lived just
a little longer?--just three years longer? Where would her gratitude
have been then?" Helena's face overflowed with sudden gay malice, but
below the malice was weariness. "You are happy now--aren't you?" Sam
Wright had said.... Why, yes, certainly. Frederick had "repented," as
Dr. King expressed it; she had seen to his "_repentance_"! That in
itself was something to have lived for--a searing flame of happiness.
Enough one might think to satisfy her--if she could only have
forgotten the baby. At first she had believed that she could forget
him. Lloyd had told her she would. How young she had been at
twenty-one to think that any one could forget! She smiled dryly at her
childish hope and at Lloyd's ignorance; but his tenderness had been so
passionately convincing,--and how good he had been about the baby! He
had let her talk of him all she wanted to. Of course, after a while he
got a little tired of the subject, and naturally. It was Frederick's
baby! And Lloyd hated Frederick as much as she did. How they used to
talk about him in those first days of his "repentance!"... "Have you
heard anything?" "Yes; running down-hill every day." "Is there any
news?" "Yes, he'll drink himself into his grave in six months." Ah,
that was happiness indeed!--"his _grave_, in six months!"... She
flung herself back in her chair, her hands dropping listlessly into
her lap. "Oh--my little, dead baby!"...

It was nearly midnight; the fire had burned quite out; the room had
fallen into shadows. Oh, yes, as she told Sam Wright, she was happy.
Her face fell into lines of dull indifference.

She got up, wearily, rubbing her eyes with her knuckles, as a child
does; then suddenly remembered that she had reached no conclusion
about this little boy Dr. Lavendar was interested in. Suppose she
should get fond of him and want to keep him--how would Lloyd feel
about it? Would he think the child might take her thoughts from him?
But at that she smiled; he could not be so foolish! "I'll write and
ask him, anyhow. Of course, if he objects, I wouldn't dream of it. I
wonder what he will think?"




CHAPTER IV


Mr. Lloyd Pryor thought very deeply after he read Mrs. Richie's
letter. He sat in his office and smoked and reflected. And as he
reflected his face brightened. It was a handsome face, with a mouth
that smiled easily. His heavy-lidded eyes behind astonishingly thick
and curling lashes were blue; when he lifted them the observer felt a
slight shock, for they were curiously motionless; generally, however,
the heavy lids drooped, lazily good-humored. He read Mrs. Richie's
letter and tapped the edge of his desk with strong, white fingers.

"Nothing could be better," he said.

Then suddenly he decided that he would go to Old Chester and say so in
person. "I suppose I ought to go, anyhow; I haven't been there for six
weeks. Yes; this child is just what she needs."

And that was how it came about that when he went home he pulled his
daughter Alice's pretty ear and said he was going away that night. "I
shall take the ten-o'clock train," he said.

His girl--a pleasant, flower-like young creature--scolded him
affectionately. "I wish you wouldn't take so many journeys. Promise to
be careful; I worry about you when I'm not with you to take care of
you," she said, in her sweet, anxious young voice. Her father,
smiling, promised prudence, and for the mere joy of watching her let
her pack his bag, lecturing him as she did so about his health. "Now
that you have undertaken all this extra business of the Pryor-Barr
people, you owe it to your stockholders to be careful of your health,"
she told him, refusing to notice his smile when he solemnly agreed
with her.

"What would happen to the Company if anything happened to you?" she
insisted, rubbing her soft cheek against his.

"Ruin, of course."

But she would not laugh. "And what would happen to _me_?"

"Ah, well, that's a different matter," he admitted, and kissed her and
bade _her_ be careful. "What would happen to me if anything happened
to you?" he teased.

She hung about him, brooding over him like a little mother dove with a
hundred questions. "Are you going anywhere except to Mercer?"

"Well, yes; possibly."

"Where?"

"Oh, to a place called Old Chester."

"Who are you going to see there?"

"Nobody you know, Gas-bag! I never heard of such curiosity!"

"Ah, but I like to think about you when you are away, and know just
where you are and what you are doing every minute of the time."

At which he laughed and kissed her, and was off to take the night
train for Mercer, which made it possible for him to catch the morning
stage for Old Chester.

There was one other passenger in the stage--a little boy with a soft
thatch of straight, yellow hair that had been chopped short around the
bowl of some domestic barber. He sat on the opposite seat and held a
bundle in his arms, peering out over the top of it with serious blue
eyes.

"Well, young man, where are you bound?" inquired Mr. Pryor. When the
child said "Old Chester," Lloyd Pryor tossed a quarter out of the
window to a hostler and bade him go into the stage-house and buy an
apple. "Here, youngster," he said, when the man handed it up to him,
"take that.--Keep the change, my man."

When it did not involve any personal inconvenience, Mr. Lloyd Pryor
had a quick and cordial kindliness which most people found very
attractive. The child, however, did not seem much impressed; he took
the apple gravely, and said, "Thank you, sir;" but he was not
effusive. He looked out of the window and hugged his bundle. Half-way
to Old Chester he began to nibble the apple, biting it very slowly, so
that he might not make a noise, and thrusting it back into his pocket
after each bite with an apprehensive glance at the gentleman in the
corner. When he had finished it and swallowed the core, he said,
suddenly:

"Mister, have you any little boys and girls?"

His companion, who had quite forgotten him, looked over the top of his
newspaper with a start. "What? What did you say? Oh--boys and girls?
Yes; I have a girl." He smiled as he spoke.

"Is she as big as me?"

Lloyd Pryor put down his paper and twitched his glasses off. "About
twice as big I should think," he said kindly.

"Twice as big! And twice as old?"

"How old are you?"

"I'm seven, going on eight."

"Well, then, let's see. Alice is--she is twice and five years more as
old. What do you make of that?"

The child began to count on his fingers, and, after looking at him a
minute or two with some amusement, Mr. Pryor returned to his paper.
After a while the boy said, suddenly, "In the flood the ducks couldn't
be drowned, could they?"

But Lloyd Pryor had become interested in what he was reading. "You
talk too much, young man," he said coldly, and there was no further
conversation. The old stage jogged along in the uncertain sunshine;
sometimes Mr. Pryor smoked, once he took a nap. While he slept the
little boy looked at him furtively, but by and by he turned to the
window, absorbed in his own affairs.

As the stage pulled into Old Chester, Mr. Pryor roused himself. "Well,
my boy, here we are," he said.

The child quivered and his hands tightened on his bundle, but he said
nothing. When they drew up at the tavern, there was Danny and Goliath
and Dr. Lavendar.

"Mary gave me some gingerbread for him," Dr. Lavendar was saying to
Van Horn. "I've got it tied up in my handkerchief. Why," he
interrupted himself, screwing up his eyes and peering into the dusk of
the old coach--"why, I believe here's Mrs. Richie's brother too!"

As the horses came to a standstill, Dr. Lavendar was in quite a
flutter of eagerness. But when the very little boy clambered out, the
old minister only shook hands with him, man fashion, with no
particular display of interest.

"I'm glad to see you, David. I am Dr. Lavendar." Then he turned to say
"How do you do?" to Mr. Pryor. "Why, look here," he added in a
cheerful after-thought, "I'm going up your way; get out and come along
in my buggy. Hey! Danny! Stop your snarling. The scoundrel's temper is
getting bad in his old age. Those snails Jonas drives can't keep up
with my trotter."

"But you have one passenger already," Mr. Pryor protested. "I'll just
go on up in the stage, thank you."

"Oh," Dr. Lavendar said, "David's bundle is the biggest part of him,
isn't it, David? We'll leave it with Van Horn and get it as we come
back. Come along, Mr. Pryor. There, David, tuck yourself down in
front; Danny can tag behind." There was a moment's hesitation, and
then Mr. Pryor did as he was bid. Dr. Lavendar climbed in himself and
off they jogged, while Jonas remarked to Van Horn that the old
gentleman wasn't just the one to talk about snails, as he looked at
it. But Mr. Pryor, watching the April sunshine chased over the hills
by warm cloud shadows and bursting into joy again on the low meadows,
reflected that he had done well for himself in exchanging the dark
cavern of the stage for Dr. Lavendar's easy old buggy and the open
air. They stopped a minute on the bridge to look at the creek swollen
by spring rains; it was tugging and tearing at the branches that
dipped into it, and heaping up rocking lines of yellow froth along the
banks.

"In summer that's a fine place to wade," Dr. Lavendar observed. David
glanced up at him and then down at the water in silence.

"Well, Goliath! at this rate Jonas could beat us," said Dr. Lavendar,
and smacked a rein down on the shaggy old back. David looked around at
Mr. Pryor with sudden interest.

"Is your name Goliath?" he asked.

Lloyd Pryor was greatly amused. "I hope you haven't such a thing as a
sling with you, David?" he said.

The little boy grew very red, but made no reply.

"It's my horse's name," Dr. Lavendar told him, so kindly that David
did not hear the chuckle in his voice. But the color was hot in the
child's face for many minutes. He had nothing to say for the rest of
the pull up the hill, except briefly, "'Bye," when Mr. Pryor alighted
at the green gate of a foot-path that led up to the Stuffed Animal
House.

"I'm very much obliged for the lift, Dr. Lavendar," he said in his
coldly courteous voice, and turned quickly at an exclamation behind
him.

"Lloyd!"

"I've brought your brother home, Mrs. Richie," said Dr. Lavendar.

Helena Richie was standing inside the hedge, her face radiant.

"Oh, Lloyd!" she said again breathlessly.

Mr. Pryor laughed and shook hands with her in somewhat formal
greeting.

"Do you see my other passenger?" Dr. Lavendar called out. "He came
with your brother. David, suppose you shake hands with Mrs. Richie? I
generally take my hat off, David, when I shake hands with a lady."

"I don't, sir," said David, gently, putting a hand out across the
wheel. Mrs. Richie had not noticed the little boy; but when she took
his hand her eyes lingered on his face, and suddenly she drew him
forward and kissed him.

David bore it politely, but he looked over her head at Mr. Pryor.
"Mister, Alice is nineteen."

"_What?_" Mr. Pryor said, his heavy-lidded eyes opening with a blue
gleam; then he laughed. "Oh yes, I'd forgotten our sum in arithmetic;
yes, Alice is nineteen."

"Well," Dr. Lavendar said, "g'long, Goliath!" and the buggy went
tugging on up the hill. "David, if you'll look in my pocket you'll
find some gingerbread."

 David thrust a hand down into the capacious pocket and brought up the
gingerbread, wrapped in a red silk handkerchief. He offered it
silently to Dr. Lavendar.

"I don't believe I'll take any. Suppose you eat it, David?"

"No, thank you, sir."

Dr. Lavendar shook his head in a puzzled way.

David swallowed nervously. "Please, sir," he said, "was that lady that
gentleman's sister?"

"Yes," Dr. Lavendar told him cheerfully.

"But if she is his sister," the little boy reasoned, "why didn't she
kiss him? Janey, she--she always gave me forty kisses."

"Just forty?" Dr. Lavendar inquired, looking at the child over his
spectacles.

David was silent for a moment, then he said, earnestly: "I never
counted. But Janey, she always said 'forty kisses.'" His whole face
quivered. A very large tear gathered, trembled, then rolled over; he
held his hands together under the lap-robe and looked the other way;
then he raised one shoulder and rubbed his cheek against it.

"I guess Janey was a pretty nice sister," Dr. Lavendar said.

David's hands tightened; he looked up speechless, into the kind old
face.

"David," said Dr. Lavendar in a business-like way, "would you mind
driving for me? I want to look over my note-book."

"Driving?" said David. "Oh, _my!_" His cheeks were wet but his eyes
shone. "I don't mind, sir. I'd just as lieves as not!"




CHAPTER V


"So that's the youngster we're going to adopt, is it?" Mr. Pryor
said; then he looked at Helena through his curling brown lashes, with
open amusement. Her eyes were full of tears.

"It has been--so long," she said faintly.

"I've been very busy," he explained.

She nodded and smiled. "Anyhow, you are here now. But, oh, Maggie has
a sore throat. I don't know what we're going to have for dinner. Oh,
how glad I am you're here!" Her face was glowing, but her chin
trembled.

"Why, this is very flattering, I'm sure; I thought you were so taken
up with your orphan that you wouldn't care whether I came or not."

"You know that isn't true," she said gayly, brushing her cheek against
his arm; "but isn't he a dear little fellow?--though I'm sorry his
hair isn't curly." Then her face changed. "What did he mean about
Alice being nineteen?"

"Oh, Alice? Why, he asked me in the stage if I had any children, and I
put Alice's age as a sum in mental arithmetic for him. And he asked me
if my name was Goliath."

But she had forgotten David. "Lloyd! To think you are here!"

"Yes, I'm here, and a hamper is here, too. I hope the stage will bring
it up pretty soon. I don't believe I could stand an Old Chester bill
of fare. It's queer about women; they don't care what they eat. I
don't believe you've got anything on hand but bread and jam and tea?"

"I care a great deal!" she assured him laughing, and then looked
worried. "Yes, I really have been living on bread and jam." She was
hanging on his arm, and once she kissed his hand. "Will you go
upstairs? And I'll see what we can do about food. That dreadful
Maggie! She's sick in bed."

Mr. Pryor looked annoyed. "Can't she get us something to eat? Ask her,
Nelly; I don't believe it will hurt her. Here; give her that," and he
took a crumpled bill out of his waistcoat pocket.

She did not take the money, but her eyes shone. "You are the most
generous being!" she said. Then, sobering, she thought of Maggie's
throat--hesitated--and Maggie was lost. For when she opened the
woman's door, and in her sweet, appealing voice declared that Mr.
Pryor had come unexpectedly, and was so hungry--what _should_ they
do?--Maggie, who adored her, insisted upon going down to the kitchen.

"Oh, Maggie, you oughtn't to! I oughtn't to let you. Maggie, look
here: you will be careful, won't you?"

"Now, you go right along back to your brother," the woman commanded
smiling. "I'm goin' to get into my clothes; t'won't do me a bit of
harm."

And Helena, protesting and joyous, fled to her room and to her mirror.
She flung off her cambric morning dress and ran to hunt in her
wardrobe for something pretty. With girlish hurry she pulled her hair
down, braided it afresh, and fastened the burnished plats around her
head like a wreath; then she brushed the soft locks in the nape of her
neck about her finger, and let them fall into loose curls. She dressed
with breathless haste, and when she finished, stood for a minute, her
lip between her teeth, staring at herself in the glass. And as she
stared her face fell; for as the color and sparkle faded a little,
care suddenly looked out of the leaf-brown eyes--care and something
like fright. But instantly drawing in her breath, she flung her head
up as one who prepares for battle. When she went down-stairs and found
Mr. Pryor waiting for her in the parlor, the sparkle had all come
back. She had put on a striped silk dress, faint rose and green, made
very full in the skirt; her flat lace collar was fastened by a little
old pin--an oval of pearls holding a strand of hair like floss-silk.

"Why, Nelly," her visitor said, "you look younger every time I see
you."

She swept him a great courtesy, making her dress balloon out about
her; then she clasped her hands at her throat, her chin resting on the
fluff of her white undersleeves, and looked up at him with a delighted
laugh. "We are not very old, either of us; I am thirty-three and you
are only forty-six--I call that young. Oh, Lloyd, I was so low-
spirited this morning; and now--you are here!" She pirouetted about
the room in a burst of gayety.

As he watched her through half-shut eyes, the bored good humor in his
face sharpened into something keener; he caught her hand as she
whirled past, drawing her close to him with a murmured caress. She,
pausing in her joy, looked at him with sudden intentness.

"Have you heard anything of--_Frederick?_"

At which he let her go again and answered curtly: "No; nothing.
Perfectly well, the last I heard. In Paris, and enjoying himself in
his own peculiar fashion."

She drew in her breath and turned her face away; they were both
silent. Then she said, dully, that she never heard any news. "Mr.
Raynor sends me my accounts every three months, but he never says
anything about--Frederick."

"I suppose there isn't anything to say. Look here, Nelly, hasn't that
stage-driver brought the hamper yet? When are we going to have
something to eat?"

"Oh, pretty soon," she said impatiently.

They were standing at one of the long windows in the parlor; through
the tilted slats of the Venetian blinds the April sunshine fell in
pale bars across her hair and dress, across the old Turkey carpet on
the floor, across the high white wainscoting and half-way up the
landscape-papered walls. The room was full of cheerful dignity; the
heavy, old-fashioned furniture of the Stuffed Animal House was
unchanged, even the pictures, hanging rather near the ceiling, had not
been removed--steel-engravings of Landseer's dogs, and old and very
good colored prints of Audubon's birds. The mantel-piece of black
marble veined with yellow was supported by fluted columns; on it were
two blown-glass vases of decalcomania decoration, then two gilt
lustres with prisms, then two hand-screens of woolwork, and in the
middle an ormolu clock--"Iphigenia in Aulis"--under a glass shade. In
the recess at one side of the fireplace was a tall bookcase with
closed doors, but a claw-footed sofa stood out from the wall at an
angle that prevented any access to the books. "I can't read Stuffed
Animal books," Helena had long ago confided to Lloyd Pryor. "The
British Classics, if you please! and Baxter's _Saint's Rest_, and
_The Lady of the Manor_." So Mr. Pryor made a point of providing
her with light literature. He pulled a paper-covered volume out of his
pocket now, and handed it to her.

"Not improving, Nelly, I assure you; and there is a box of candy in
the hamper."

She thanked him, but put the book down. "Talk to me, Lloyd. Tell me--
everything! How are you? How is Alice? Are you very busy with politics
and things? Talk to me."

"Well," he said good naturedly, "where am I to begin? Yes: I'm very
well. And very busy. And unusually poor. Isn't that interesting?"

"Oh, Lloyd! Are you in earnest? Lloyd, you know I have a lot of money,
and of course, if you want it, it is yours."

He was lounging lazily on the sofa, and drew her down beside him,
smiling at her through his curling lashes. "It isn't as bad as that.
It is only that I have shouldered the debts of the old Pryor-Barr Co.,
Limited. You know my grandfather organized it, and my father was
president of it, and I served my 'prenticeship to business in it."

"But I thought," she said, puzzled, "you went out of it long ago,
before--before--"

"The flood? Yes, my dear, I did. I've only been a silent partner for
years--and that in a very small way. But I regret to say that the
young asses who have been running it have got into trouble. And they
propose going into bankruptcy, confound them! It is very annoying,"
Lloyd Pryor ended calmly,

"But I don't understand," she said; "what have you to do with it?"

"Well, I've got to turn to and pay their damned debts."

"Pay their debts? But why? Does the law make you?"

"The law?" he said, looking at her with cold eyes. "I suppose you mean
statute law? No, my dear, it doesn't."

"Then I can't understand it," she declared laughing.

"It's nothing very abstruse. I can't have stockholders who trusted our
old firm cheated by a couple of cousins of mine. I've assumed the
liabilities--that's all."

"But you don't _have_ to, by law?" she persisted, still bewildered.

"My dear Nelly, I don't do things because of the _law_," he said
dryly. "But never mind; it is going to give me something to do. Tell
me about yourself. How are you?"

"I'm--pretty lonely, Lloyd," she said.

And he answered, sympathetically, that he had been afraid of that.
"You are too much by yourself. Of course, it's lonely for you. I am
very much pleased with this idea of the little boy."

She shook her head. "I can't take him."

"Why not?" he protested, and broke off. "Nelly, look! You are going to
have company."

He had caught sight of some one fumbling with the latch of the green
gate in the hedge. Helena opened her lips in consternation.

"Lloyd! It's old Mr. Benjamin Wright. He lives in that big house with
white columns on the top of the hill. Do you suppose he has come to
_call_?"

"Tell your woman to say you are out."

But she shook her head, annoyed and helpless. "Don't you see how tired
he is?--poor old man! Of course, he must come in. Go and help him,
Lloyd." She put her hands on his arm. "Please!" she said.

"No, thank you; I have no desire to help old gentlemen." And as she
left him and ran impetuously to open the door herself, he called after
her, "Nelly, don't have dinner held back!"

Mr. Benjamin Wright stood, panting, at the foot of the porch steps; he
could hardly lift his head to look up at the figure in the doorway.
"You--Mrs. Richie?" he gasped.

"Yes, sir," she said. "May I help you? These steps are so steep."

"No," he snarled. "Do you think I'm so decrepit that I have to have a
female help me up-stairs?" Then he began toiling up the steps. "My
name is Wright. You know my grandson? Sam? Great fool! I've come to
call on you." On the porch he drew a long breath, pulled off his mangy
old beaver hat, and, with a very courtly bow, held out his hand.
"Madam, permit me to pay my respects to you. I am your neighbor. In
fact, your only neighbor; without me,

  'Montium domina ut fores silvarumque virentium saltuumque reconditorum
  amniumque sonantum.'

Understand that? No? Good. I don't like learned females."

She took his hand in a bewildered way, glancing back over her shoulder
at Mr. Pryor, uncertain what she ought to do. Mr. Wright decided for
her.

"I know this house," he said, pushing past her into the dusky hall;
"friend of mine used to live here. Ho! This is the parlor. Well; who's
this?" He stood chewing orange-skin and blinking up at Lloyd Pryor,
who came forward reluctantly.

"My name is Pryor, sir, I--"

"Oh! Yes. _I_ know. _I_ know. The lady's brother. Here! Push that
chair out for me."

And Mr. Lloyd Pryor found himself bringing a chair forward and taking
the hat and stick from the trembling old hand. Helena had gone quickly
into the dining-room, and came back with a decanter and glass on a
little tray. She gave a distressed glance at her other guest as though
to say, "I can't help it!"

Benjamin Wright's old head in its brown wig was still shaking with
fatigue, but under the prickle of white on his shaven jowl the
purplish color came back in mottled streaks. He sipped the sherry
breathlessly, the glass trembling in his veined and shrunken hand.
"Well," he demanded, "how do you two like this God-forsaken place?"

Mr. Pryor, looking over their visitor's head at Helena, shrugged his
shoulders.

"It is very nice," she said vaguely,

"It's a narrowing place," he demurred, "very narrowing; sit down, sit
down, good people! I'll take some more sherry. My grandson," he went
on, as Helena filled his glass, "is always talking about you, madam.
He's a great jackass. I'm afraid he bothers you with his calls?"

"Oh, not at all," Helena said nervously. She sat down on the other
side of the big rosewood centre-table, glancing with worried eyes at
Lloyd Pryor.

"Move that lamp contraption," commanded Mr. Wright. "I like to see my
hostess!"

And Helena pushed the astral lamp from the centre of the table so that
his view was unobstructed.

"Is he a nuisance with his talk about his drama?"

Mr. Wright said, looking across at her with open eagerness in his
melancholy eyes.

"Why, no indeed."

"Do you think it's so very bad, considering?"

"It is not bad at all," said Mrs. Richie.

His face lighted like a child's. "Young fool! As if he could write a
drama! Well, madam, I came to ask you to do me the honor of taking
supper with me to-morrow night, and then of listening to this
wonderful production. Of course, sir, I include you. My nigger will
provide you with a fairly good bottle. Then this grandson of mine will
read his truck aloud. But we will fortify ourselves with supper
first."

His artless pride in planning this distressing festivity was so
ludicrous that Lloyd Pryor's disgust changed into involuntary mirth.
But Helena was plainly nervous. "Thank you; you are very kind; but I
am afraid I must say no."

Mr. Pryor was silently retreating towards the dining-room. As for the
visitor, he only had eyes for the mistress of the house.

"Why should you say no?"

She tried to answer lightly. "Oh, I like to be quiet."

"Quiet?" cried Benjamin Wright, rapping the table with his wine-glass.
"At your age? Nonsense!" He paused, cleared his throat, and then
sonorously:

"'Can you endure the livery of a nun, For aye to be in shady cloister
mew'd, To live a barren sister all your life, Chanting faint hymns to
the cold, fruitless moon?' Give me some more sherry. Of course you
must come. No use being shy--a pretty creatur' like you! And you said
you liked the play," he added with childlike reproach.

Helena, glad to change the subject, made haste to reassure him. "I do,
I do!" she said, and for a few minutes she kept the old face beaming
with her praise of Sam and his work. Unlike his grandson, Mr. Wright
was not critical of her criticism. Nothing she could say seemed to him
excessive. He contradicted every statement, but he believed it
implicitly. Then with a sigh of satisfaction, he returned to his
invitation. Helena shook her head decidedly.

"No; thank you very much. Mr. Pryor couldn't possibly come. He is only
here over Sunday, and--" She looked towards the dining-room for
protection, but the door had been gently closed.

"Hey?" Benjamin Wright said blankly. "Well, I won't insist; I won't
insist. We'll wait till he goes. Come Monday night."

"Oh," she said, her voice fluttering, "I am sorry but I really can't."

"Why can't you?" he insisted. "Come, tell the truth! The advantage of
telling the truth, young lady, is that neither God nor the devil can
contradict you!" He laughed, eying her with high good humor.

"Oh, it's merely--" she hesitated, and he looked affronted.

"What! Some female airs about coming to an unmarried man's house?" Her
involuntary mirth disarmed him. "No? Well, I'm glad you've got some
sense. Then you'll come?"

"If I went to your house, it would seem unfriendly not to go to other
houses."

"Why shouldn't you go to other houses? Done anything you're ashamed
of?" He laughed uproariously at his own wit. "Come now; don't be
finikin and ladylike!"

"I don't make visits," she explained, the color rising angrily in her
cheeks.

"Gad-a-mercy! Why not?" he interrupted. "Do you think you're too good
for us here in Old Chester?"

"Oh, Mr. Wright!"

"Or perhaps Old Chester is too good for you?"

His face had softened wonderfully; he was looking at her with the same
quizzical delight with which he would look at one of his canaries when
he caught it, and held it struggling in his hand. "Are we too good for
you?" he jeered, "too--"

He stopped abruptly, his laugh breaking off in the middle. Then his
mouth fell slowly open in blank amazement; he leaned forward in his
chair and stared at her without a word.

"I don't care for society," she said, in a frightened way, and rose as
if to bring the visit to an end.

But Benjamin Wright sat still, slowly nodding his head. "You don't
care for society? I wonder why."

"Oh, because I am--a very quiet person," she stammered.

The dining-room door opened and Sarah came in, looked about, found the
decanter, and withdrew.

"Where is--that gentleman?" the old man demanded.

"Mr. Pryor went in to dinner," she said faintly. "Please excuse him;
he was tired."

The silence that fell between them was like a blow. ... Mr. Wright
pulled himself to his feet, and with one shaking hand on the table
felt his way around until he stood directly in front of her; he put
his face close to hers and stared into her eyes, his lower lip opening
and closing in silence. Then, without speaking, he began to grope
about on the table for his hat and stick.

"I will bid you good day," he said.

Without another word he went shuffling out into the dark hall. At the
front door he turned and looked back at her; then, slowly, shook his
head.




CHAPTER VI


Poor Maggie paid for her good nature. On Sunday morning she was so
decidedly worse that William King, to the disgust of his Martha, was
summoned from his breakfast-table.

"Women who can't look after a simple sore throat without bothering
their doctors are pretty inefficient creatures," she said coldly.

William thought of women who were so efficient that they did not
hesitate to advise their doctors; but he only agreed with proper
seriousness to Martha's declaration that it was too bad, for he would
be late for church--"unless you hurry, William!" she called after him.

Perhaps he hurried when he was with Maggie, but certainly he displayed
no haste when giving his directions to Mrs. Richie, nor even later
when just as he was about to drive off, Mr. Pryor hailed him from the
garden.

"How's your patient, doctor?"

"Pretty sick. She didn't obey your sister's orders and keep in bed
yesterday. So, of course, she's worse to-day."

Mr. Pryor leaned a comfortable elbow on the green gate. "That's a nice
prospect! What am I going to have to eat?" he said, good-humoredly.

Yet behind the good humor there was annoyance. It came into William
King's mind that this fellow would not spare his sister his
irritation, and with a sudden impulse of concern for her, he said,
"Well now, look here, why don't you and Mrs. Richie come in this
evening and take tea with us? I don't know what you'll get, but come
and take pot-luck."

"Thank you," Lloyd Pryor said, "but--"

"Oh, come now," interrupted the doctor, gathering up his reins; "you
good people are not neighborly enough. We'll expect you both at six."

"You are very kind, but I think--" But William would not listen. He
was in great spirits. "It will be pot-luck, and my wife will be
delighted--" then, his voice dragged--"I hope you'll come," he said
uncertainly.

Mr. Pryor began to protest, but ended with a laugh. "Well, we'll come!
Thank you very much."

"That's good," the doctor said a little less cordially, indeed, as he
drove away he looked distinctly less cordial, and once he sighed....
Now, how should he put it? "Oh, Martha, by the way, Mr. Pryor and his
sister will drop in to tea to-night. I suggested it, and--" No, that
would not do.... "Martha, it occurred to me it would be neighborly--"
No. "Confound it," William King muttered to himself, "what did I do it
for, anyhow? 'Martha, my dear, I know you like to do a kindness, so I
asked Mrs. Richie and her brother'"--that was better. "But I hate a
circumbendibus!" William said, irritably, to himself. Then he drew a
long breath, and set his lips as a man may who is about to face the
domestic cannon's mouth.

After he had driven on, screwing up his courage, it appeared that Mr.
Pryor also had a cannon to face. Helena Richie came out into the
garden, and found. him sitting on a bench built round a great silver
poplar. Her face was worried. "I ought not to have made poor Maggie
get up yesterday," she said, "but I was so distressed not to have a
good dinner for you."

"Well, at least you need have no anxieties about supper; we've had an
invitation,"

"An invitation! From Dr, King? Well, that's very nice in him. But, of
course--"

"I told him we would come"

"You told him we would come!"

"I couldn't help it, Nelly. People who invite you face to face are
perfect nuisances. But, really, it's no great matter--for once, And I
knew it would be a convenience for you. Besides, I wanted a good
supper."

"Well, we must make some excuse."

"There isn't any excuse to make," he explained, good-naturedly: "I
tried to find one and couldn't. We've got to go."

"_I_ sha'n't go."

He looked at her from under his heavy eyelids; then blew two smoke
wreaths slowly. "You're a queer creature."

She turned on him hotly. "Queer? Because I won't go out to supper with
you? I'd be queer if I did! I'm entirely satisfied with myself, Lloyd;
I consider that I have a perfect right to be happy in my own way. You
know I don't care a copper for what you call 'morality'! it's nothing
but cowardly conventionality. But I won't go out to supper with you."

"Please don't let us have a tirade," he said "I thought it would be
more convenient for you. That's always the way with your sex, Helena,
you do a thing to help them out, and they burst into tears."

"I haven't burst into tears," she said sullenly, "but I won't go."

"Come, now! don't be a goose. I wouldn't make a practice of accepting
their invitations; but for once, what does it matter?"

"Can't you understand?" she said passionately; "_they are kind to
me!_"

She turned quickly and ran into the garden, leaving him to call after
her: "Well, you've got to go to-night, because I've accepted."

"I won't go to-night!" she flung back, her voice breaking.

Lloyd Pryor shook his head. "And she wonders I don't come oftener," he
said to himself.

So the sleepy Sunday morning passed. Mr. Pryor roamed about the
garden, looking furtively over his shoulder now and then--but Helena
had disappeared. "Sulking in her room, I suppose," he thought.

He had come at some inconvenience, to spend Sunday and talk over this
project of the child, "for I'd like to see her happier," he told
himself; and now, instead of sitting down, sensibly, to discuss
things, she flared out over this invitation to supper. Her intensity
fatigued him. "I must be getting old," he ruminated, "and Helena will
always be the age she was ten years ago. Ten? It's thirteen! How time
flies; she was twenty. How interested I was in Frederick's health in
those days!"

He stretched himself out on the bench under the poplar, and lit
another cigar. "If _I'm_ willing to go, why is she so exercised?
Women are all alike--except Alice." He smiled as he thought of his
girl, and instantly the hardness in his face lifted, as a cloud shadow
lifts and leaves sunshine behind it. Then some obscure sense of
fitness made him pull himself together, and put his mind on affairs
that had nothing in common with Helena; affairs in which he could
include his girl without offending his taste.

After a while he got up and wandered about between the borders, where
the clean, bitter scent of daffodils mingled with the box. Once he
stood still, looking down over the orchard on the hill-side below him,
at the bright sheen of the river edged with leafless maples; on its
farther side were the meadows, and then the hills, smoky in their warm
haze. Over all was the pale April sky with skeins of gray cloud in the
west. He wondered what Alice was doing at this moment, and looked at
his watch. She must be just coming back from church. When he was at
home Mr. Pryor went to church himself, and watched her saying her
little prayers. This assumption of the Pryor-Barr liabilities would be
a serious check to the fortune he was building up for her; he set his
jaw angrily at the thought, but of course it couldn't be helped.
Furthermore, Alice took great pride in the almost quixotic sense of
honor that had prompted the step; a pride which gave him a secret
satisfaction, quite fatuous and childlike and entirely out of keeping
with certain other characteristics, also secret.

There was a gleam of humor in his eyes, as he said to himself that he
hoped Alice would not ask him how he had spent his Sunday morning.
Alice had such a feeling about truth, that he did not like to tell her
even little lies, little ones that she could not possibly find out. It
was the sentiment of fibbing to his girl that offended him, not the
fib; for Mr. Lloyd Pryor had no doubt that, in certain matters, Truth
must be governed by the law of benefit.

Thinking of his daughter, and smiling to himself, he lounged aimlessly
about the garden; then it occurred to him to go into the stable and
look at Helena's pony. After that he strolled over to the carriage-
house where were stored a number of cases containing stuffed
creatures--birds and chipmunks and small furry things. Some larger
animals were slung up under the beams of the loft to get them out of
the way; there was a bear in one corner, and a great crocodile, and a
shark; possessions of the previous owner of the Stuffed Animal House,
stored here by her executor, pending the final settlement of the
estate.

Lloyd Pryor stood at the doorway looking in. Through a grimed and
cobwebbed window at the farther end of the room the light filtered
down among the still figures; there was the smell of dead fur and
feathers, and of some acrid preservative. One box had been broken in
moving it from the house, and a beaver had slipped from his carefully
bitten branch, and lay on the dusty boards, a burst of cotton pushing
through the splitting belly-seam. Lloyd Pryor thrust it into its case
with his stick, and started as he did so. Something moved, back in the
dusk.

"It's I, Lloyd," Helena Richie said.

"You? My dear Nelly! Why are you sitting in this gloomy place?"

She smiled faintly, but her face was weary with tears. "Oh, I just--
came in here," she said vaguely.

She had said to herself when, angry and wounded, she left him in the
garden, that if she went back to the house he would find her. So she
had come here to the dust and silence of the carriage-house, and
sitting down on one of the cases had hidden her face in her hands.
Little by little anger ebbed. Just misery remained. But still she sat
there, looking absently at these dead creatures about her, or at a
thin line of sunshine falling through a heart-shaped opening in a
shutter, and moving noiselessly across the floor. A mote dipped into
this stream of light, zigzagged through it, then sank into the
darkness. She followed it with dull eyes, thinking, if she thought at
all, that she wished she did not have to sit opposite Lloyd at dinner.
But, of course, she would have to, the servants would think it strange
if she did not come to table with him. Suddenly the finger of sunshine
vanished, and all the motes were gone. Raising her head with a long
sigh she saw him in the doorway, his tall figure black against the
smiling spring landscape outside. Her heart came up into her throat
with a rush of delight. He was looking for her! Ah, this was the way
it had been in those first days, when he could not bear to let her out
of his sight!

He put his arm around her with careless friendliness and helped her to
her feet. "What a place this will be for your boy to play. He can be
cast away on a desert island and surrounded by wild animals every day
in the week." His voice was so kind that her anger of two hours ago
seemed impossible--a mistake, a misunderstanding! She tried in a
bewildered way to get back to it in her own mind, but he was so matter
of fact about the stuffed animals and the little boy and the desert
island, that she could only say vaguely, "Yes, it would be nice, but
of course I'm not going to take him."

"Well now, that's just what I want to talk to you about," he said,
watching her through his long, curling eyelashes. "That's why I came
down to Old Chester--"

"Oh, is it?"

He checked an impatient exclamation, and then went on: "When I got
your letter about this boy, I was really delighted.--Let's go out into
the sunshine; the smell of this place is very disagreeable.--I think
you would find the child company; I really hope you will take him."
His voice was sincere and she softened.

"It's kind of you, Lloyd, to urge it. But no, it won't do."

"My dear, of course it will do. You'll give him a good home, and--"

"No, no, I can't; you know I can't."

"My dear Nelly! What possible harm could you do the child?"

She drew away from him sharply. "_I_ do him any harm! I! Oh--you
wouldn't have said such a thing, once!" She pressed the back of her
hand against her lips, and Lloyd Pryor studiously looked in another
direction.

"What have I said? That you wouldn't do him any harm? Is there
anything unkind in that? Look here, Nell, you really mustn't be so
unreasonable. There is nothing a man hates so much as a fool. I am
merely urging something for your pleasure. He would be company for
you; I thought him quite an attractive youngster."

"And you wouldn't have me so much on your mind? You wouldn't feel you
had to come and see me so often!"

"Well, if you want to put it that way," he said coldly. "I'm a very
busy man. I can't get off whenever I feel like it."

"And you can't leave your beloved Alice."

He shot a blue gleam at her from under his heavy eyelids. "No; I
can't."

She quivered. But he went on quietly: "I know you're lonely, Helena,
and as I can't come and see you quite so often as I used to, I want
you to take this little fellow, simply to amuse you."

She walked beside him silently. When they reached the bench under the
poplar, she sat looking into the April distance without speaking. She
was saying to herself, miserably, that she didn't want the child; she
didn't want to lessen any sense of obligation that brought him to
her;--and yet, she did not want him to come from a sense of
obligation!

"You would get great fun out of him, Nelly," he insisted.

And looking up, she saw the kindness of his face and yielded. "Well,
perhaps I will; that is, if Dr. Lavendar will let me have him. I'm
afraid of Dr. Lavendar somehow."

"Good!" he said heartily; "that's a real weight off my mind." Her lip
curled again, but she said nothing. Lloyd Pryor yawned; then he asked
her whether she meant to buy the house.

"I don't know; sometimes I think there is less seclusion in the
country than there is in town." She drew down a twig, and began to
pull at the buds with aimless fingers. "I might like to come to
Philadelphia and live near you, you know," she said. The sudden malice
in her eyes was answered by the shock in his; his voice was disturbed
when he spoke, though his words were commonplace:

"It's a pleasant enough house."

Then he looked at his watch, opening the case under the shelter of his
hand--but she saw the photograph in the lid.

"Is that a good picture of Alice?" she said with an effort.

"Yes," he answered, hastily snapping the lid shut. "Helena, what are
we going to have for dinner?"

"Oh, nothing very much, I'm afraid," she told him ruefully. Then
rising, she held out her hand. "Come! We mustn't quarrel again. I
don't know why we always squabble!"

"I'm sure I don't want to," he said. "Nelly, you are prettier every
time I see you." He put a finger into one of the loose curls in the
nape of her neck, and she looked up at him, her lip trembling.

"And do you love me?"

"Of course I do!" he declared, slipping his arm around her waist. And
they walked thus between the box borders, back to the house.




CHAPTER VII


But she would not go to the Kings' to tea. "No," she said, her eyes
crinkling with fun, "I'm not going; but you've got to; you promised!
And remember, I have 'a very severe headache.'"

He laughed, with a droll look, and then explained that at home he was
never allowed to tell tarradiddles. "Alice has a perfect mania about
truth," he said ruefully; "it is sometimes very inconvenient. Yes;
I'll enlarge upon your headache, my dear. But why in thunder did I say
yes to that confounded doctor? I'd like to wring your cook's neck,
Nelly!"

"You'll have a good supper," she consoled him, "and that's what you
want. They say Mrs. King is a great housekeeper. And besides, if you
stayed at home you would probably have to entertain Mr. Sam Wright."

"I'll be darned if I would," he assured her, amiably, and started off.

He had the good supper, although when the doctor broke to his wife
that company was coming, Mrs. King had protested that there was
nothing in the house to eat. "And there's one thing about me, I may
not be perfect, but I am hospitable, and--"

"Just give them what we were going to have ourselves."

"Now, William! I must say, flatly and frankly--"

"There's the office bell," murmured the doctor, sidling away and
hearing the reproachful voice lessening in the distance--"how hard I
try--nothing fit--"

The office door closed; the worst was over. There would be a good
supper--William had no misgivings on that point. Mrs. Richie would
talk to him, and he would tease her and make her laugh, and laugh
himself. The doctor did not laugh very much in his own house; domestic
virtue does not necessarily add to the gayety of life. During the
afternoon Willy tried on three different neckties, and twice put
cologne on his handkerchief. Then appeared Mr. Pryor to say that Mrs.
Richie had one of her headaches! He was so sorry, but Mrs. King knew
what a bad headache was?

"Indeed I do," Martha said, "only too well. But _I_ can't give way to
them. That's what it is to be a doctor's wife; the patients get all
the prescriptions," Martha said; and William, out of the corner of
his eye, saw that she was smiling! Well, well; evidently Mrs. Richie's
defection did not trouble her; the doctor was glad of that. "But I
didn't bargain on entertaining the brother," he said to himself
crossly; and after the manner of husbands, he left the entertaining to
Martha.

Martha, however, did her duty. She thought Mr. Pryor a very agreeable
gentleman; "far more agreeable than his sister," she told William
afterwards. "I don't know why," said Martha, "but I sort of distrust
that woman. But the brother is all right; you can see that--and a very
intelligent man, too. We discussed a good many points, and I found we
agreed perfectly."

Mr. Pryor also had an opinion on that supper-table talk. He said to
himself grimly, that Nelly's bread and jam would have been better. But
probably bread and jam, followed by young Sam Wright, would have
seemed less desirable than Mrs. King's excellent supper.

It was about seven when the boy appeared at the Stuffed Animal House.
Had Mr. Pryor been at home, Helena would, no doubt, have found some
way of dismissing him; as it was, she let him stay. He was bareheaded;
he had seen a bird flapping painfully about in the road, and catching
it in gentle hands had discovered that its wing was broken, so put it
tenderly in his cap and brought it to Mrs. Richie's door.

"Poor little thing!" she cried, when he showed it to her. "I wish Mr.
Pryor would come back; he would tell us what to do for it."

"Oh, is he here?" Sam asked blankly.

"Well, not at this moment. He has gone to take tea at Dr. King's."
Sam's face lightened with relief.

"You mustn't tell anybody you saw me this evening," she charged him
gayly. "I didn't go to Mrs. King's because--I had such a very bad
headache!"

"Is it better?" he asked, so anxiously that she blushed.

"Oh, yes, yes. But before tea I--didn't want to go."

"I'm glad you didn't," he said, and forgot her in caring for the bird.
He ordered a box and some cotton batting--"and give me your
handkerchief." As he spoke, he took it from her surprised hand and
tore it into strips; then, lifting the broken wing with exquisite
gentleness, he bound it into place. She looked at the bandages
ruefully, but Sam was perfectly matter-of-course. "It would have been
better without lace," he said; "but it will do. Will you look at him
sometimes? Just your touch will cure him, I think."

Mrs. Richie laughed.

"Well, you can laugh, but it's true. When I am near you I have no pain
and no worry; nothing but happiness." He sat down beside her on the
old claw-footed sofa near the fire, for it was cool enough these
spring evenings to have a little fire. He leaned forward, resting his
chin on his fist, and staring into the blaze. Once he put his hand out
and touched her dress softly, and smiled to himself. Then abruptly, he
came out of his reverie, and spoke with joyous excitement:

"Why! I forgot what I came to tell you about--something extraordinary
has happened!"

"Oh, what?" she demanded, with a sweet eagerness that was as young as
his own.

"You could never guess," he assured her. "Tonight, at supper,
grandfather suddenly told me that he wanted me to travel for a while--
he wanted me to go away from Old Chester. I was perfectly amazed. 'Go
hunt up a publisher for your truck,' he said. He always calls the
drama my 'truck,'" Sam said snickering; "but the main thing,
evidently, was to have me get away from home. To improve my mind, I
suppose. He said all gentlemen ought to travel. To live in one place
all the time was very narrowing, he said. I told him I hadn't any
money, and he said he'd give me some. He said, 'anything to get you
away.' It wasn't very flattering, was it?"

Helena's face flashed into suspicion. "Why did he want to get you
away?" she asked coldly. There was an alarmed alertness in her voice
that made the boy look at her.

"He said he wanted me to 'be able to know cakes and ale when I saw
them,'" Sam quoted. "Isn't that just like grandfather?"

"Know cakes and ale!" she stammered, and then looked at him furtively.
She took one of the little hand-screens from the mantel, and held it
so that he could not see her face. For a minute the pleasant firelit
silence fell between them.

"Oh, listen," Sam said in a whisper; "do you hear the sap singing in
the log?" He bent forward with parted lips, intent upon the exquisite
sound--a dream of summer leaves rustling and blowing in the wind. He
turned his limpid stag's eyes to hers to feel her pleasure.

"I think," Mrs. Richie said with an effort that made her voice hard,
"that it would be an excellent thing for you to go away."

"And leave you?"

"Please don't talk that way. Your grandfather is quite right."

The boy smiled. "I suppose you really can't understand? It's part of
your loveliness that you can't. If you could, you would know that I
can't go away. I told him I was much obliged, but I couldn't leave Old
Chester."

"Oh, please! you mustn't be foolish. I don't like you when you are
foolish. Will you please remember how much older I am than you? Let's
talk of something else. Let's talk about the little boy who is coming
to visit me--his name is David."

"I would rather talk about you, and what you mean to me--beauty and
poetry and good--"

"Don't!" she said sharply,

"Beauty and poetry and goodness."

"I'm not beautiful, and I'm not--poetical."

"And so I worship you," the young man went on in a low happy voice.

"Do please be quiet! I won't be worshipped."

"I don't see how you are going to help it," he said calmly. "Mrs.
Richie, I've got my skiff; it came yesterday. Will you go out on the
river with me some afternoon?"

"Oh, I don't think I care about boating," she said.

"You don't!" he exclaimed blankly; "why, I only got it because I
thought you would go out with me!"

"I don't like the water," she said firmly.

Sam was silent; then he sighed. "I wish I'd asked you before I bought
it. Father is so unreasonable."

She looked puzzled, for the connection was not obvious.

"Father always wants things used," Sam explained. "Do you really
dislike boating?"

"You absurd boy!" she said laughing; "of course you will use it; don't
talk nonsense!"

Sam looked into the fire. "Do you ever have the feeling," he said in
an empty voice, "that nothing is worth while? I mean, if you are
disappointed in anything? A feeling as if you didn't care, at all,
about anything? I have it often. A sort of loss of appetite in my
mind. Do you know it?"

"Do I know it?" she said, and laughed so harshly that the boy drew
back. "Yes, Sam; I know it."

Sam sighed; "I hate that skiff."

And at that she laughed again, but this time with pure gayety. "Oh,
you foolish boy!" she said. Then she glanced at the clock. "Sam, I
have some letters to write to-night--will you think I am very
ungracious if I ask you to excuse me?" Sam was instantly apologetic.
"I've stayed too long! Grandfather told me I ought never to come and
see you--"

"_What!_"

"He said I bothered you."

"You don't bother me," she protested; "I mean, when you talk about
your play you don't bother me. But to-night--"

"Of course," said Sam simply, and took himself off after one or two
directions about the bird.

When the front door closed behind him she went back to her seat by the
lamp, and took up her novel; but her eyes did not see the printed
page. Suddenly she threw the book down on the table. It was impossible
to read; Sam's talk had disturbed her to the point of sharp
discomfort. What did old Mr. Wright mean by "knowing cakes and ale"?
And his leer yesterday had been an offence! Why had he looked at her
like that? Did he--? Was it possible--! She wished she had spoken to
Lloyd about it. But no; it couldn't be; it was only his queer way; he
was half crazy, she believed. And it would do no good to speak to
Lloyd. The one thing she must not do, was to let any annoyance of hers
annoy him. Yet below her discomfort at Sam's sentimentality and his
grandfather's strange manner lay a deeper discomfort--a disturbance at
the very centres of her life.... _She was afraid._

She had been afraid for a long time. Even before she came to Old
Chester she was a little afraid, but in Old Chester the fear was
intensified by the consciousness of having made a mistake in coming.
Old Chester was so far away. It had seemed desirable when she first
thought of it; it was so near Mercer where business very often called
him. Besides, New York, with its throngs of people, where she had
lived for several years, had grown intolerable; in Old Chester she and
Lloyd had agreed she would have so much more privacy. But how
differently things had turned out! He did not have to come to Mercer
nearly so often as he had expected. Those visions of hers--which he
had not discouraged--of weekly or certainly fortnightly visits, had
faded into lengthening periods of three weeks, four weeks--the last
one was more than six weeks ago. "He can't leave his Alice!" she said
angrily to herself; "_I_ remember the time when he did not mind
leaving her." As for privacy, the great city, with its hurrying
indifferent crowds, was more private than this village of insistent
friendliness.

She leaned back in her chair and pressed her hands over her eyes; then
sat up quickly--she must not cry! Lloyd hated red eyes. But oh, she
was afraid!--afraid of what? She had no answer; as yet her fear was
without a name. She picked up her book, hurriedly; "I'll read," she
said to herself; "I won't think!" But for a long time she did not turn
a page.

However, by the time Mr. Pryor came back from the tea-party she was
outwardly tranquil, and looked up from her novel to welcome him and
laugh at his stories of his hostess. But he was instant to detect the
troubled background of her thoughts.

"You are lonely," he said, lounging on the sofa beside her; "when that
little boy comes you'll have something to amuse you;" he put a
caressing finger under her soft chin.

"I didn't have that little boy, but I had another," she said ruefully.

"Did your admirer call?"

She nodded.

"What!" he exclaimed, for her manner told him.

"He tried to be silly," she said. "Of course I snubbed him. But it
makes me horribly uncomfortable somehow."

Lloyd Pryor got up and slowly scratched a match under the mantel-
piece; he took a long time to light his cigar. Then he put his hands
in his pockets, and standing with his back to the fire regarded his
boots. Helena was staring straight ahead of her with melancholy
eyes.--("Do you ever have the feeling," the boy had said, "that
nothing is worth while?")

Lloyd Pryor looked at her furtively and coughed. "I suppose," he
said--and knocked the ashes from his cigar with elaborate
care--"I suppose your adorer is a good deal younger than you?"

She lifted her head sharply, "Well, yes;--what of it?"

"Oh, nothing; nothing at all. In the first place, the health of our
friend, Frederick, is excellent. But if this fellow were not younger;
and if apoplexy or judgment should--well; why, perhaps--"

"Perhaps what?"

"Of course, Helena, my great desire is for your happiness; but in my
position I--I am not as free as I once was to follow my own
inclinations. And if--"

"Oh, my _God!_" she said violently.

She fled out of the room with flying feet. As he followed her up the
stairs he heard her door slam viciously and the bolt slip. He came
down, his face flushed and angry. He stood a long while with his back
to the fire, staring at the lamp or the darkness of the uncurtained
window. By and by he shook his head and set his jaw in sullen
determination; then he went up-stairs and knocked softly at her door.
There was no answer. Again, a little louder; silence.

"Nelly," he said; "Nelly, let me speak to you--just a minute?"

Silence.

"Nelly!"

Silence.

"Damn!" said Lloyd Pryor, and went stealthily back to the parlor where
the fire was out and the lamp flickering into smoky darkness.

A quarter of an hour later he went up-stairs again.

"How _could_ you say it!" "I didn't mean it, Nelly; it was only a
joke." "A joke! Oh, a cruel joke, a cruel joke!" "You know I didn't
mean it. Nelly dearest, I didn't mean it!" "You do love me?" "I love
you.... Kiss me...."




CHAPTER VIII


"Well, now," said Dr. Lavendar that Sunday evening when he and David
came into the study after tea; "I suppose you'd like me to tell you a
story before you go to bed?"

"A Bible story?"

"Why, yes," Dr. Lavendar admitted, a little taken aback.

"No, sir," said David.

"You don't want a Bible story!"

The little boy shook his head.

"David," said Dr. Lavendar chuckling, "I think I like you."

David made no response; his face was as blank as an Indian's. He sat
down on a stool by the fire, and once he sighed. Danny had sniffed
him, slowly, and turned away with a bored look; it was then that he
sighed. After a while he got up and wandered about the room, his hands
gripped in front of him, his lips shut tight. Dr. Lavendar watched him
out of the tail of his eye, but neither of them spoke. Suddenly David
climbed up on a chair and looked fixedly at a picture that hung
between the windows.

"That is a Bible picture," Dr. Lavendar observed.

"Who," said David, "is the gentleman in the water?"

Dr. Lavendar blew his nose before answering. Then he said that that
was meant to be our Saviour when He was being baptized. "Up in the
sky," Dr. Lavendar added, "is His Heavenly Father."

There was silence until David asked gently, "Is it a good photograph
of God?"

Dr. Lavendar puffed three times at his pipe; then he said, "If you
think the picture looks like a kind Father, then it is. And David, I
know some stories that are not Bible stories. Shall I tell you one?"

"If you want to, sir," David said. Dr. Lavendar began his tale rather
doubtfully; but David fixed such interested eyes upon his face that he
was flattered into enlarging upon his theme. The child listened
breathlessly, his fascinated eyes travelling once or twice to the
clock, then back to the kind old face.

"You were afraid bedtime would interrupt us?" said Dr. Lavendar, when
the tale was done. "Well, well; you are a great boy for stories,
aren't you?"

"You've talked seven minutes," said David, thoughtfully, "and you've
not moved your upper jaw once."

Dr. Lavendar gasped; then he said, meekly, "Did you like the story?"

David made no reply,

"I think," said Dr Lavendar, "I'll have another pipe."

He gave up trying to make conversation; instead, he watched the clock.
Mary had said that David must go to bed at eight, and as the clock
began to strike, Dr. Lavendar, with some eagerness, opened his lips to
say good night--and closed them. "Guess he'd rather run his own rig,"
he thought. But to his relief, at the last stroke David got up.

"It's my bedtime, sir."

"So it is! Well, it will be mine after a while. Good night, my boy!"
Dr. Lavendar blinked nervously. Young persons were generally kissed.
"I should not wish to be kissed," he said to himself, and the two
shook hands gravely.

Left alone, he felt so fatigued he had to have that other pipe. Before
he had finished it his senior warden looked in at the study door.

"Come in, Samuel," said Dr. Lavendar. "Samuel, I feel as if I had
driven ten miles on a corduroy road!"

Mr. Wright looked blank; sometimes he found it hard to follow Dr.
Lavendar.

"Sam, young persons are very exciting."

"Some of them are, I can vouch for that," his caller assured him
grimly.

"Come, come! They are good for us," said Dr. Lavendar. "I wish you'd
take a pipe, Sam; it would cheer you up."

"I never smoke, sir," said Samuel reprovingly, "Well, you miss a lot
of comfort in life. I've seen a good many troubles go up in smoke."

Mr. Wright sat down heavily and sighed.

"Sam been giving you something to think about?" Dr. Lavendar asked
cheerfully.

"He always gives me something to think about. He is beyond my
comprehension! I may say candidly, that I cannot understand him. What
do you think he has done now?"

"Nothing wicked."

"I don't know how you look at it," Samuel said, "but from my point of
view, buying prints with other people's money is dangerously near
wickedness. This present matter, however, is just imbecility. I told
him one day last week to write to a man in Troy, New York, about a
bill of exchange. Well, he wrote. Oh, yes--he wrote. Back comes a
letter from the man, enclosing my young gentleman's epistle, with a
line added "--Mr. Wright fumbled in his breast pocket to find the
document--" here it is: _'Above remarks about ships not understood
by our House.'_ Will you look at that, sir, for the 'remarks about
ships'?"

Dr. Lavendar took the sheet stamped "Bank of Pennsylvania," and hunted
for his spectacles. When he settled them on his nose he turned the
letter over and read in young Sam's sprawling hand:

"Was this the face that launched a thousand ships, And burnt the
topless towers of Ilium?"

"What's this? I don't understand."

"Certainly you do not; no sensible person would. I showed it to my
young gentleman, and requested an explanation. 'Oh,' he said, 'when
you told me to write to Troy, it made me think of those lines.' He
added that not wishing to forget them, he wrote them down on a sheet
of paper, and that probably he used the other side of the sheet for
the Troy letter--'by mistake.' 'Mistake, sir!' I said, 'a sufficient
number of _mistakes_ will send me out of business.'"

"Samuel," said Dr. Lavendar thoughtfully, "do you recall whose face it
was that 'launched the thousand ships' on Troy?"

Samuel shook his head,

"Helen's" said Dr. Lavendar.

The senior warden frowned, then suddenly understood. "Oh, yes, I know
all about that. Another evidence of his folly!"

"I've no doubt you feel like spanking him," Dr. Lavendar said
sympathetically, "but--" he stopped short. Sam Wright was crimson.

"I! _Spank_ him? I?" He got up, opening and shutting his hands,
his face very red. The old minister looked at him in consternation.

"Sam! what on earth is the matter with you? Can't a man have his
joke?"

Mr. Wright sat down. He put his hand to his mouth as though to hide
some trembling betrayal; his very ears were purple.

Dr. Lavendar apologized profusely. "I was only in fun. I'm sure you
know that I meant no disrespect to the boy. I only wanted to cheer you
up."

"I understand, sir; it is of no consequence. I--I had something else
on my mind. It is of no consequence." The color faded, and his face
fell into its usual bleak lines, but his mouth twitched. A minute
afterwards he began to speak with ponderous dignity. "This love-making
business is, of course, most mortifying to me; and also, no doubt,
annoying to Mrs. Richie. To begin with, she is eleven years older than
he--he told his mother so. He added, if you please! that he hoped to
marry her."

"Well! Well!" said Dr. Lavendar.

"I told him," Mr. Wright continued, "that in my very humble opinion it
was contemptible for a man to marry and allow another man to support
his wife."

Dr. Lavendar sat up in shocked dismay. "Samuel!"

"I, sir," the banker explained, "am his father, and I support him. If
he marries, I shall have to support his wife. According to my poor
theories of propriety, a man who lets another man support his wife had
better not have one."

"But you ought not to have put it that way," Dr. Lavendar protested,

"I merely put the fact," said Samuel Wright "Furthermore, unless he
stops dangling at her apron-strings, I shall stop his allowance, I
shall so inform him."

"You surely won't do such a foolish thing!"

"Would you have me sit still? Not put up a single barrier to keep him
in bounds?"

"Samuel, do you know what barriers mean to a colt?"

Mr. Wright made no response.

"They mean something to jump over."

"Possibly," said Mr. Wright with dignity, "you are, to some extent,
correct. But a man cannot permit his only son to run wild and
founder."

"Sam won't founder. But he may get a bad strain. You'd better look
out. He is his father's son."

"I do not know, sir, to what you refer."

"Oh, yes, you do," Dr. Lavendar assured him easily; "and you know that
no man can experience unforgiving anger, and not be crippled. You
didn't founder, Sam, but you gave yourself a mighty ugly wrench. Hey?
Isn't that so?"

The senior warden looked perfectly deaf; then he took up the tale
again.

"If he goes on in his folly he will only be unhappy, and deservedly
so. She will have nothing to do with him. In stopping him, I shall
only be keeping him from future unhappiness."

"Samuel," said Dr. Lavendar, "I never begrudge unhappiness to the
young."

But Mr., Wright was too absorbed in his own troubles to get any
comfort out of that.

"By the way," said Dr. Lavendar, "speaking of Mrs. Richie--do you
think she'd be a good person to take this little David Allison?"

"I don't know why she shouldn't be, sir," Samuel said. "I have no
fault to find with _her_. She pays her rent and goes to church. Yes; a
very good person to take the boy off your hands."

"The rent is important," Dr, Lavendar agreed nodding; "but going to
church doesn't prove anything."

"All good people go to church," the senior warden reproved him.

"But all people who go to church are not good," Dr. Lavendar said
dryly,

"I am afraid she lets Sam talk poetry to her," Sam's father broke out.
"Stuff! absolute stuff! His mother sometimes tells me of it. Why," he
ended piteously, "half the time I can't understand what it's about;
it's just bosh!"

"What you don't understand generally _is_ bosh, isn't it, Sam?"
said Dr. Lavendar thoughtfully.

"I am a man of plain common sense, sir; I don't pretend to anything
but common sense."

"I know you don't, Samuel, I know you don't," Dr. Lavendar said sadly;
and the banker, mollified, accepted the apology.

"On top of everything else, he's been writing a drama. He told his
mother so. Writing a drama, instead of writing up his ledgers!"

"Of course, he ought not to neglect his work," Dr. Lavendar agreed;
"but play-writing isn't one of the seven deadly sins,"

"It is distasteful to me!" Sam senior said hotly; "most distasteful. I
told his mother to tell him so, but he goes on writing--so she says."
He sighed, and got up to put on his coat. "Well; I must go home. I
suppose he has been inflicting himself upon Mrs. Richie this evening.
If he stays late, I shall feel it my duty to speak plainly to him."

Dr. Lavendar gave him a hand with his coat. "Gently does it, Samuel,
gently does it!"

His senior warden shook his head. The sense of paternal helplessness,
felt more or less by all fathers of sons, was heavy upon him. He knew
in a bewildered way, that he did not speak the boy's language. And yet
he could not give up trying to communicate with him,--shouting at him,
so to speak, as one shouts at a foreigner when trying to make oneself
understood; for surely there must be some one word that would reach
Sam's mind, some one touch that would stir his heart! Yet when he
brought his perplexity to Dr. Lavendar, he was only told to hold his
tongue and keep his hands off. The senior warden said to himself,
miserably, that he was afraid Dr. Lavendar was getting old, "Well, I
mustn't bother you," he said; "as for Sam, I suppose he will go his
own gait! I don't know where he gets his stubbornness from. I myself
am the most reasonable man in the world. All I ever ask is to be
allowed to follow my own judgment. I asked his mother if obstinacy was
a characteristic of her family, and she assured me it was not.
Certainly Eliza herself has no will of her own. I don't think a good
woman ever has. And, as I say, I never insisted upon my own way in my
life--except, of course, in matters where I knew I was right."

"Of course," said Dr. Lavendar.




CHAPTER IX


The parting at the Stuffed Animal House the next morning was dreary
enough. The day broke heavy with threatening rain. The man, after that
brief flaming up of the embers of burned-out passion, had fallen into
a weariness which he did not attempt to conceal. But the woman--being
a woman--still tried to warm herself at the poor ashes, wasting her
breath in a sobbing endeavor to blow them into some fitful ardor.
There was a hurried breakfast, and while waiting for the stage the
desultory talk that skims over dangerous topics for fear of getting
into discussions for which there is no time. And with it the
consciousness of things that burn to be said--at least on one side.

"I'm sorry I was cross last night," she murmured once, under her
breath.

And he responded courteously, "Oh, not at all."

But she pressed him. "You know it was only because I--love you so? And
to make a joke of--"

"Of course! Helena, when is that stage due? You don't suppose the
driver misunderstood, and expects to take me on at the Tavern?"

"No, he was told to call here.... Lloyd, it's just the same? You
haven't--changed?"

"Certainly not! I do hope he hasn't forgotten me? It would be
extremely inconvenient."

She turned away and stood looking out of the window into the rain-
sodden garden. Mr. Pryor lighted a cigar. After a while she spoke
again. "You'll come soon? I hope you will come soon! I'll try not to
worry you."

"Of course," he assured her; "but I trust your cook will be well next
time, my dear."

"Give me a day's notice, and I will have another cook if Maggie should
be under the weather," she answered eagerly.

"Oh, that reminds me," he said, and thrusting his hand into his pocket
he went out to the kitchen. When he came back he went at once to the
window, "I'm afraid that stage-driver has forgotten me," he said,
frowning. But she reassured him--it really wasn't time yet; then she
leaned her cheek on his shoulder.

"Do you think you can come in a fortnight, Lloyd? Come the first of
May, and everything shall be perfect. Will you?"

Laughing, he put a careless arm around her, then catching sight of the
stage pulling up at the gate, turned away so quickly that she
staggered a little.

"Ah!" he said in a relieved voice;--"beg your pardon, Nelly;--There's
the stage!"

At the door he kissed her hurriedly; but she followed him, bareheaded,
out into the mist, catching his hand as they went down the path.

"Good-by!" he called back from the hinged step of the stage. "Get
along, driver, get along! I don't want to miss my train in Mercer.
Good-by, my dear. Take care of yourself."

Helena standing at the gate, followed the stage with her eyes until
the road turned at the foot of the hill. Then she went back to the
bench under the silver poplar and sat down. She said to herself that
she was glad he was gone. His easy indifference to the annoyance to
her of all these furtive years, seemed just for a moment unbearable.
He had not showed a glimmer of sympathy for her position; he had not
betrayed the slightest impatience at Frederick's astonishing health,
so contrary to every law of probability and justice; he had not even
understood how she felt at taking the friendship of the Old Chester
people on false pretences--oh, these stupid people! That dull, self-
satisfied, commonplace doctor's wife, so secure, so comfortable, in
her right to Old Chester friendships! Of course, it was a great thing
to be free from the narrowness and prejudice in which Old Chester was
absolutely hidebound. But Lloyd might at least have understood that in
spite of her freedom the years of delay had sometimes been a little
hard for her; that it was cruel that Frederick should live, and live,
and live, putting off the moment when she should be like--other
people; like that complacent Mrs. King, even; (oh, how she detested
the woman!) But Lloyd had shown no spark of sympathy or understanding;
instead he had made a horrid joke.... Suddenly her eyes, sweet and
kind and shallow as an animal's, clouded with pain, and she burst out
crying--but only for one convulsive moment. She could not cry out here
in the garden. She wished she could get into the house, but she was
sure that her eyes were red, and the servants might notice them. She
would have to wait a while. Then she shivered, for a sharp wind blew
from across the hills where in the hollows the snow still lingered in
grimy drifts, icy on the edges, and crumbling and settling and sinking
away with every day of pale sunshine. The faint fragrance of wind-
beaten daffodils reached her, and she saw two crocuses, long gold
bubbles, over in the grass. She put the back of her hand against her
cheek--it was hot still; she must wait a little longer. Her chilly
discomfort made her angry at Lloyd, as well as hurt.... It was nearly
half an hour before she felt sure that her eyes would not betray her
and she could go into the house.

Somehow or other the empty day passed; she had Lloyd's novel and the
candy. It was cold enough for a fire in the parlor, and she lay on the
sofa in front of it, and read and nibbled her candy and drowsed. Once,
lazily, she roused herself to throw some grains of incense on the hot
coals. Gradually the silence and perfume and warm sloth pushed the
pain of the last twenty-four hours into the background of her mind,
where it lay a dull ache of discontent. By and by even that ceased in
physical well-being. Her body had her in its grip, and her spirit sunk
softly into the warm and satisfied flesh. She bade Sarah bring her
dinner into the parlor; after she had eaten it she slept. When she
awoke in the late afternoon, she wished she could sleep again. All her
thoughts ran together in a lazy blur. Somewhere, back of the blur, she
knew there was unhappiness, so this was best--to lie warm and quiet by
the fire, eating candy and yawning over her book.

The next few days were given up to indolence and apathy. But at the
end of the week the soul of her stirred. A letter from Lloyd came
saying that he hoped she had the little boy with her, and this
reminded her of her forgotten promise to Dr. Lavendar.

But it was not until the next Monday afternoon that she roused herself
sufficiently to give much thought to the matter. Then she decided to
go down to the Rectory and see the child. It was another dark day of
clouds hanging low, bulging big and black with wind and ravelling into
rain along the edges. She hesitated at the discomfort of going out,
but she said to herself, dully, that she supposed she needed the walk.
As she went down the hill her cheeks began to glow with the buffet of
the wind, and her leaf-brown eyes shone crystal clear from under her
soft hair, crinkling in the mist and blowing all about her smooth
forehead. The mist had thickened to rain before she reached the
Rectory, and her cloak was soaked, which made Dr. Lavendar reproach
her for her imprudence.

"And where are your gums?" he demanded. When she confessed that she
had forgotten them, he scolded her roundly.

"I'll see that the little boy wears them when he comes to visit me,"
she said, a comforted look coming into her face.

"David? David will look after himself like a man, and keep you in
order, too. As for visiting you, my dear, you'd better visit him a
little first. I tell you--stay and have supper with us to-night?"

But she protested that she had only come for a few minutes to ask
about David. "I must go right home," she said nervously.

"No, no. You can't get away,--oh!" he broke off excitedly--"here he
is!" Dr. Lavendar's eagerness at the sight of the little boy who came
running up the garden path, his hurry to open the front door and bring
him into the study to present him to Mrs. Richie, fussing and proud
and a little tremulous, would have touched her, if she had noticed
him. But she did not notice him,--the child absorbed her. She could
not leave him. Before she knew it she found herself taking off her
bonnet and saying she would stay to tea.

"David," said Dr. Lavendar, "I've got a bone in my leg; so you run and
get me a clean pocket-handkerchief."

"Can I go up-stairs like a crocodile?" said David.

"Certainly, if it affords you the slightest personal satisfaction,"
Dr. Lavendar told him; and while the little boy crawled laboriously on
his stomach all the way up-stairs, Dr. Lavendar talked about him. He
said he thought the child had been homesick just at first; he had
missed his sister Janey. "He told me 'Janey' gave him 'forty kisses'
every night," said Dr. Lavendar; "I thought that told a story--" At
that moment the crocodile, holding a handkerchief between his teeth,
came rapidly, head foremost, down-stairs. Dr. Lavendar raised a
cautioning hand;--"Mustn't talk about him, now!"

There was a quality in that evening that was new to Helena; it was
dull, of course;--how very dull Lloyd would have found it! A childlike
old man asking questions with serious simplicity of a little boy who
was full of his own important interests and anxieties;--the feeding of
Danny, and the regretful wonder that in heaven, the little dog would
not be "let in."

"Who said he wouldn't?" Dr. Lavendar demanded, fiercely, while Danny
yawned with embarrassment at hearing his own name.

"You read about heaven in the Bible," David said, suddenly shy; "an'
it said outside were dogs;--an' some other animals I can't remember
the names of."

Dr. Lavendar explained with a twinkle that shared with his visitor the
humor of those "other animals" itemized in the Revelations. It was a
very mild humor; everything was mild at the Rectory; the very air
seemed gentle! There was no apprehension, no excitement, no
antagonism; only the placid commonplace of goodness and affection.
Helena could not remember such an evening in all her life. And the
friendship between youth and age was something she had never dreamed
of. She saw David slip from his chair at table, and run around to Dr.
Lavendar's side to reach up and whisper in his ear,--oh, if he would
but put his cheek against hers, and whisper in her ear!

The result of that secret colloquy was that David knelt down in front
of the dining-room fire, and made a slice of smoky toast for Dr.
Lavendar.

"After supper you might roast an apple for Mrs. Richie," the old
minister suggested. And David's eyes shone with silent joy. With
anxious deliberation he picked out an apple from the silver wire
basket on the sideboard; and when they went into the study, he
presented a thread to Mrs. Richie.

"Tie it to the stem," he commanded. "You're pretty slow," he added
gently, and indeed her white fingers blundered with the unaccustomed
task. When she had accomplished it, David wound the other end of the
thread round a pin stuck in the high black mantel-shelf. The apple
dropped slowly into place before the bars of the grate, and began--as
everybody who has been a child knows--to spin slowly round, and then,
slowly back again. David, squatting on the rug, watched it in silence.
But Mrs. Richie would not let him be silent. She leaned forward, eager
to touch him--his shoulders, his hair, his cheek, hot with the fire.

"Won't you come and sit in my lap?"

David glanced at Dr. Lavendar as though for advice; then got up and
climbed on to Mrs. Richie's knee, keeping an eye on the apple that
bobbed against the grate and sizzled.

"Will you make me a little visit, dear?"

David sighed. "I seem to visit a good deal; I'd like to belong
somewhere."

"Oh, you will, one of these days," Dr. Lavendar assured him.

"I'd like to belong to you," David said thoughtfully.

Dr. Lavendar beamed, and looked proudly at Mrs. Richie.

"Because," David explained, "I love Goliath."

"Oh," said Dr. Lavendar blankly.

"It's blackening on one side," David announced, and slid down from
Mrs. Richie's knee to set the apple spinning again.

"The red cheek is beginning to crack," said Dr. Lavendar, deeply
interested; "smells good, doesn't it, Mrs. Richie?"

"Have you any little boys and girls?" David asked, watching the apple.

"Come and climb on my knee and I'll tell you," she bribed him.

He came reluctantly; the apple was spinning briskly now under the
impulse of a woolly burst of pulp through the red skin.

"Have you?" he demanded.

"No, David."

Here his interest in Mrs. Richie's affairs flagged, for the apple
began to steam deliciously. Dr. Lavendar, watching her with his shrewd
old eyes, asked her one or two questions; but, absorbed in the child,
she answered quite at random. She put her cheek against his hair, and
whispered, softly: "Turn round, and I'll give you forty kisses."
Instantly David moved his head away. The snub was so complete that she
looked over at Dr. Lavendar, hoping he had not seen it. "I once knew a
little baby," she said, trying to hide her embarrassment, "that had
curly hair the color of yours."

"It has begun to drip," said David briefly. "Does Alice live at your
house?"

"_Alice!_"

"The gentleman--your brother--said Alice was nineteen. I thought maybe
she lived at your house."

"No, dear. Look at the apple!"

David looked. "Why not?"

"Why, she lives at her own house, dear little boy." "Does she pay you
a visit?"

"No. David, I think the apple is done. Why didn't you roast one for
Dr. Lavendar?"

"I had to do it for you because you're company. Why doesn't she pay
you a visit?"

"Because--oh, for a good many reasons. I'm afraid must go home now."

The child slipped from her knee with unflattering haste. "You've got
to eat your apple first," he said, and ran to get a saucer and spoon.
With great care the thread was broken and the apple secured. Then
David sat calmly down in front of her to watch her eat it; but after
the first two or three mouthfuls, Dr. Lavendar had pity on her, and
the smoky skin and the hard core were banished to the dining-room.
While the little boy was carrying them off, she said eagerly, that she
wanted him.

"You'll let me have him?"

"I'm going to keep him for a while."

"Oh, do give him to me!" she urged.

"Not yet. You come here and see him. I won't make ye eat a roast apple
every time." He smiled at her as he spoke, for she was clasping her
hands, and her eyes were eager and shining.

"I must have him! I _must_!"

"No use teasing--here comes Dr. King. He'll tell you I'm an obstinate
old man. Hey, Willy, my boy! Ain't I an obstinate old man?"

"You are," said William. He had walked in unannounced, in good Old
Chester fashion, and stood smiling in the doorway.

"Oh, plead my cause!" she said, turning to him.

"Of course I will. But it isn't much use; we are all under his heel."

They were standing, for Mrs. Richie had said she must go, when Dr.
Lavendar had an idea: "Would you mind seeing her home, Willy?" he
said, in an aside. "I was going to send Mary, but this is a chance to
get better acquainted with her--if you're not too tired."

"Of course I'm not too tired," the doctor said eagerly, and went back
to the fireside where Mrs. Richie had dropped on her knees before
David. "I'm going to walk home with you," he announced. She looked up
with a quick protest, but he only laughed. "If we let you go alone,
your brother will think we have no manners in Old Chester. Besides I
need the walk." And when she had fastened her cloak, and kissed David
good night, and thrown Dr. Lavendar an appealing look, William gave
her his hand down the two steps from the front door, and then made her
take his arm. Dr. Lavendar had provided a lantern, and as its shifting
beam ran back and forth across the path the doctor bade her be careful
where she stepped. "These flag-stones are abominably rough," he said;
"I never noticed it before. And one can't see in the dark."

But what with the lantern and the stars, there was light enough for
William King to see the stray curl that blew across her forehead--
brown, was it? And yet, William remembered that in daylight her hair
was too bright to be called brown. He was solicitous lest he was
making her walk too fast. "I don't want your brother to think we don't
take care of you in Old Chester," he said; and in the starlight he
could see that her face flushed a little. Then he repeated some Old
Chester gossip, which amused her very much--and held his breath to
listen to the delicious gayety of her laugh.

"There ought to be a better path for you up the hill," he said; "I
must speak to Sam Wright about it." And carefully he flung the
noiseless zigzag of light back and forth in front of her, and told
some more stories that he might hear that laugh again.

When he left her at her own door she said with a sudden impetuous
timidity, "Dr. King, _please_ make Dr. Lavendar give me the little
boy!"

"I will!" he said, and laughed at her radiant face.

It seemed to the doctor as he went down the hill, that he had had a
most delightful evening. He could not recollect what they had talked
about, but he knew that they had agreed on every point. "A very
intelligent lady," he said to himself.

"William," said Martha, looking up from her mending as he entered the
sitting-room, "did you remember to tell Davis that the kitchen sink
leaks?"

"Oh!" said the doctor blankly; "well--I'll tell him in the morning."
Then, smiling vaguely, he dropped down into his shabby old easy-chair,
and watched Martha's darning-needle plod in and out. "Martha," he said
after a while, "what shade would you call your hair if it was--well,
kind of brighter?"

"_What?_ said Martha, looking at him over her spectacles; she put up
her hard capable hand and touched her hair softly, as if she had
forgotten it. "My hair used to be a real chestnut. Do you mean
chestnut?"

"I guess I do. It's a pretty color."

Martha looked at him with a queer shyness in her married eyes, then
tossed her head a little and thrust her darning-needle into the gray
stocking with a jaunty air. "That's what you used to say," she said.
After a while, noticing his tired lounge in the old chair, she said
kindly, "Why did you stay so long at Dr. Lavendar's, Willy? You look
tired. Do go to bed."

"Oh," William explained, "I didn't stay very long; he asked me to see
Mrs. Richie home. She had taken tea with him."

Martha's face suddenly hardened. "Oh," she said coldly. Then, after a
short silence: "Mrs. Richie's hair is too untidy for my taste."

When Dr. Lavendar went back into the study he found David curled up in
an arm-chair in profound meditation.

"What are you thinking about so hard?" Dr. Lavendar said.

"Yesterday. After church."

"Thinking about yesterday?" Dr. Lavendar repeated puzzled. David
offered no explanation, and the old minister searched his memory for
any happening of interest after church ... but found none. He had come
out of the vestry and in the church David had joined him, following
him down the aisle to the door and waiting close behind him through
the usual Sunday greetings: "Morning, Sam!" "Good morning, Dr.
Lavendar." "How are you, Ezra? How many drops of water make the mighty
ocean, Ezra?" "The amount of water might be estimated in tons, Dr.
Lavendar, but I doubt whether the number of minims could be compu--"
"Hullo! there's Horace; how d'ye do, Horace? How's Jim this
morning?"--and so on; the old friendly greetings of all the friendly
years.... Surely nothing in them to make the child thoughtful?

Suddenly David got up and came and stood beside him.

"What is your name?"

"N. or M.," Dr. Lavendar replied.

"What, sir?" said David, in a troubled voice; and Dr. Lavendar was
abashed.

"My name is Edward Lavendar, sir. Why do you want to know?"

"Because, yesterday everybody said 'Dr. Lavendar.' I didn't think
Doctor could be your front name. All the other people had front
names."

"Well, I have a front name, David, but you see, there's nobody in Old
Chester to call me by it." He sighed slightly, and then he smiled.
"The last one who called me by my front name is dead, David. John was
his name. I called him Johnny."

David looked at him with wide eyes, silent. Dr. Lavendar took his pipe
out of his mouth, and stared for a minute at the fire.

"I should think," David said sadly, "God would be discouraged to have
_everybody_ He makes, die."

At that Dr. Lavendar came quickly out of his reverie. "Oh, it's better
that way," he said, cheerfully. "One of these days I'll tell you why.
What do you say to a game of dominoes?"

David squeaked with pleasure. Then he paused to say: "Is that lady,
Alice's aunt?" and Dr. Lavendar had to recall who "Alice" was before
he could say "yes." Then a little table was pulled up, and the
dominoes were poured out upon it, with a joyful clatter. For the next
half hour they were both very happy. In the midst of it David
remarked, thoughtfully: "There are two kinds of aunts. One is bugs.
She is the other kind." And after Dr. Lavendar had stopped chuckling
they discussed the relative merits of standing the dominoes upright,
or putting them on their sides, and Dr. Lavendar built his fence in
alternate positions, which was very effective. It was so exciting that
bedtime was a real trial to them both. At the last stroke of eight
David clenched both hands.

"Perhaps the clock is fast?"

Dr. Lavendar compared it with his watch, and shook his head
sympathetically. "No; just right. Tumble 'em back into the box. Good
night."

"Good night, sir," David said, and stood hesitating. The color came
and went in his face, and he twisted the top button of his jacket with
little nervous fingers.

"Good night," Dr. Lavendar repeated, significantly.

But still David hesitated. Then he came and stood close beside Dr.
Lavendar. "Lookee here," he said tremulously, "_I'll_ call you Edward.
I'd just as lieves as not."

There was a full minute's silence. Then Dr. Lavendar said, "I thank
you, David. That is a kind thought. But no; I like Dr. Lavendar as a
name. So many boys and girls have called me that, that I'm fond of it.
And I like to have you use it. But I'm much obliged to you, David. Now
I guess we'll say good night. Hey?"

The child's face cleared; he drew a deep breath as if he had
accomplished something. Then he said good night, and trudged off to
bed. Dr. Lavendar looked after him tenderly.




CHAPTER X


April brightened into May before David came to live at the Stuffed
Animal House. Dr. Lavendar had his own reasons for the delay, which he
did not share with anybody, but they resulted in a sort of intimacy,
which Helena, eager for the child, could not refuse.

"He needs clothes," Dr. Lavendar put her off; "I can't let him visit
you till Mary gets his wardrobe to rights."

"Oh, let me get his little things."

--Now, who would have supposed that Dr. Lavendar was so deep! To begin
with, he was a man, and an old man, at that; and with never a chick or
a child of his own. How did he know what a child's little clothes are
to a woman?--"Well," he said, "suppose you make him a set of night-
drawers."

Helena's face fell. "I don't know how to sew. I thought I could buy
what he needed."

"No; he has enough bought things, but if you will be so kind, my dear,
as to make--"

"I will!" she promised, eagerly, and Dr. Lavendar said he would bring
David up to be measured.

Her sewing was a pathetic blunder of haste and happiness; it brought
Dr. Lavendar and David up to the Stuffed Animal House very often, "to
try on." David's coming was always a delight, but the old man fretted
her, somehow;--he was so good. She said so to William King, who
laughed at the humor of a good woman's objection to goodness. The
incongruity of such a remark from her lips was as amusing as a child's
innocently base comment.

[Illustration: Her sewing was a pathetic blunder of haste and
happiness. _Awakening of Helena Richie_]

William had fallen into the habit of drawing up and calling out "good
morning" whenever he and his mare passed her gate. Mrs. Richie's lack
of common sense seemed to delight the sensible William. When he was
with her, he was in the frame of mind that finds everything a joke. It
was a demand for the eternal child in her, to which, involuntarily,
she responded. She laughed at him, and even teased him about his
shabby buggy with a gayety that made him tingle with pleasure. She
used to wonder at herself as she did it--conscious and uneasy, and
resolving every time that she would not do it again. She had none of
this lightness with any one else. With Dr. Lavendar she was reserved
to the point of coldness, and with young Sam Wright, matter-of-fact to
a discouraging degree.

But she did not see Sam often in the next month. It had occurred to
Sam senior that Adam Smith might cure the boy's taste for 'bosh'; so,
by his father's orders, his Sunday afternoons were devoted to _The
Wealth of Nations_. As for his evenings, his grandfather took
possession of them. Benjamin Wright's proposal that the young man
should go away for a while, had fallen flat; Sam replying, frankly,
that he did not care to leave Old Chester. As Mr. Wright was not
prepared to give any reasons for urging his plan, he dropped it; and
instead on Sunday nights detained his grandson to listen to this or
that drama or poem until the boy could hardly hide his impatience.
When he was free and could hurry down the hill road, as often as not
the lights were out in the Stuffed Animal House, and he could only
linger at the gate and wonder which was her window. But when he did
find her, he had an evening of passionate delight, even though
occasionally she snubbed him, lazily.

"Do you go out in your skiff much?" she asked once; and when he
answered, "No; I filled it with stones and sunk it, because you didn't
like rowing," she spoke to him with a sharpness that surprised
herself, though it produced no effect whatever on Sam.

"You are a very foolish boy! What difference does it make whether I
like rowing or not?"

Sam smiled placidly, and said he had had hard work to get stones
enough to fill the skiff. "I put them in," he explained, "and then I
sculled out in mid-stream, and scuttled her. I had to swim ashore. It
was night, and the water was like flowing ink, and there was a star in
every ripple," he ended dreamily.

"Sam," she said, "if you don't stop being so foolish, I won't let you
come and see me,"

"Am I a nuisance about my drama?" he asked with alarm.

"Not about your drama," she said significantly; but Sam was too happy
to draw any unflattering deductions.

When old Mr. Wright discovered that his stratagem of keeping his
grandson late Sunday evenings had not checked the boy's acquaintance
with Mrs. Richie, he tried a more direct method. "You young ass! Can't
you keep away from that house? She thinks you are a nuisance!"

"No, grandfather," Sam assured him earnestly, "she doesn't. I asked
her, and she said--"

"Asked her?" roared the old man, "Do you expect a female to tell the
truth?" And then he swore steadily for a minute. "I'll have to see
Lavendar," he said despairingly.

But Mr. Wright's cause was aided by some one stronger than Dr.
Lavendar. Helena's attention was so fixed on the visitor who was
coming to the Stuffed Animal House that Sam's conversation ceased to
amuse her. Those little night-drawers on which she pricked her fingers
interested her a thousand times more than did his dramatic visions.
They interested her so much that sometimes she could almost forget
that Lloyd Pryor's visit was delayed. For though it was the first of
May, he had not come again. "I am so busy," he wrote; "it is
impossible for me to get away. I suppose David will have his sling all
ready for me when I do arrive?"

Helena was sitting on the porch with her clumsy needlework when Sarah
brought her the letter, and after she had read it, she tore it up
angrily. "He was in Mercer a week ago; I know he was, because there is
always that directors' meeting on the last Thursday in April, so he
must have been there. And he wouldn't come!" Down in the orchard the
apple-trees were in blossom, and when the wind stirred, the petals
fell in sudden warm white showers; across the sky, from west to east,
was a path of mackerel clouds. It was a pastel of spring--a dappled
sky, apple blossoms, clover, and the river's sheen of gray-blue. All
about her were the beginnings of summer--the first exquisite green of
young leaves; oaks, still white and crumpled from their furry sheaths;
horse-chestnuts, each leaf drooping from its stem like a hand bending
at the wrist; a thin flicker of elm buds, still distrustful of the
sun. Later, this delicate dance of foliage would thicken so that the
house would be in shadow, and the grass under the locusts on either
side of the front door fade into thin, mossy growth. But just now it
was overflowing with May sunshine. "Oh, he _would_ enjoy it if he
would only come," she thought. Well, anyhow, David would like it; and
she began to fell her seam with painstaking unaccustomed fingers.

The child was to come that day. Half a dozen times she dropped her
work to run to the gate, and shielding her eyes with her hand looked
down the road to Old Chester, but there was no sign of the jogging
hood of the buggy. Had anything happened? Was he sick? _Had Dr.
Lavendar changed his mind?_ Her heart stood still at that. She
debated whether or not she should go down to the Rectory and find out
what the delay meant? Then she called to one of the servants who was
crossing the hall, that she wondered why the little boy who was to
visit her, did not come. Her face cleared at the reminder that the
child went to school in the morning.

"Why, of course! I suppose he will have to go every morning?" she
added ruefully.

"My," Maggie said smiling, "you're wan that ought to have six!"

Mrs. Richie smiled, too. Then she said to herself that she wouldn't
let him go to school every day; she was sure he was not strong enough.
She ventured something like this to Dr. Lavendar when, about four
o'clock, Goliath and the buggy finally appeared.

"Strong enough?" said Dr. Lavendar. "He's strong enough to study a
great deal harder than he does, the little rascal! I'm afraid Rose
Knight will spoil him; she's almost as bad as Ellen Bailey. You didn't
know our Ellen, did ye? No; she'd married Spangler and gone out West
before you came to us. Ah, a dear woman, but wickedly unselfish. Rose
Knight took the school when Spangler took Ellen." Then he added one or
two straight directions: Every school-day David was to come to the
Rectory for his dinner, and to Collect Class on Saturdays. "You will
have to keep him at his catechism," said Dr. Lavendar; "he is weak on
the long answers."

"Oh!" Helena said, rather startled; "you don't want me to teach him--
things like that, do you?"

"Things like what?"

"The catechism, and--to pray, and--"

Dr. Lavendar smiled. "You can teach folks to say their prayers, my
dear, but nobody can teach them to pray. Only life does that. But
David's been taught his prayers; you just let him say 'em at your
knee, that's all"

David, dismissed to the garden while his elders talked, had discovered
the rabbit-hutch, and could hardly tear himself away from it to say
good-by. But when Dr. Lavendar called out that he was going, the
little boy's heart misgave him. He came and stood by the step of the
buggy, and picked with nervous fingers at the dry mud on the wheel--
for Dr. Lavendar's buggy was not as clean as it should have been.

"Well, David?" Dr. Lavendar said cheerfully. The child with his chin
sunk on his breast said something. "What?" said Dr. Lavendar.

David mumbled a word or two in a voice that seemed to come from his
stomach; it sounded like, "Like you best." But Dr. Lavendar did not
hear it, and David ran swiftly back to the rabbits. There Helena found
him, gazing through two large tears at the opal-eyed pair behind the
wooden bars. Their white shell-like ears wavered at her step, and they
paused in their nibbling; then went on again with timid, jewel-like
glances in her direction.

Helena, at the sight of those two tears, knelt down beside the little
boy, eager to be sympathetic. But he did not notice her, and by and by
the tears dried up. After she had tried to make him talk;--of Dr.
Lavendar, of school, of his old home;--without drawing anything more
from him than "yes ma'am," or "no ma'am," she gave it up and waited
until he should be tired of the rabbits. The sun was warm, the smell
of the crushed dock leaves heavy in the sheltered corner behind the
barn; it was so silent that they could hear the nibbling of the two
prisoners, who kept glancing at them with apprehensive eyes that
gleamed with pale red fires. David sighed with joy.

"What are their names?" he said at last in a low voice.

"They haven't any names; you can name them if you like."

"I shall call them Mr. and Mrs. Smith," he said with decision. And
then fell silent again.

"You came to Old Chester in the stage with Mr. Pryor," she said after
a while; "he told me you were a very nice little boy."

"How did he know?" demanded David.

"He is very nice himself," Helena said smiling.

David meditated. "Is that gentleman my enemy?"

"Of course not! he isn't anybody's enemy," she told him reprovingly.

David turned silently to his rabbits.

"Why did you think he was your enemy?" she persisted.

"I only just hoped he wasn't; I don't want to love him."

"What!"

"If he was my enemy, I'd have to love him, you know," David explained
patiently.

Helena in her confused astonishment knew not what to reply. She
stammered something about that being wrong; of course David must love
Mr. Pryor!

"They ought to have fresh water," David interrupted thoughtfully; and
Helena had to reach into the hutch for a battered tin pan.

She watched him run to the stable and come back, holding the pan in
both hands and walking very slowly under the mottled branches of the
button-woods; at every step the water splashed over the rusty brim,
and the sunshine, catching and flickering in it, was reflected in a
rippling gleam across his serious face.

All that afternoon he permitted her to follow him about. He was gently
polite when she spoke to him but he hardly noticed her until, as they
went down through the orchard, his little hand tightened suddenly on
hers, and he pressed against her skirts.

"Are there snakes in this grass?" he asked timorously. "A snake," he
added, looking up at her confidingly, "is the only insect I am afraid
of."

She stooped down and cuddled him reassuringly, and he rewarded her by
snuggling up against her like a friendly puppy. She was very happy. As
it grew dusk and cool, and all the sky was yellow behind the black
line of the hills, she lured him into the house and watched him eat
his supper, forgetting to eat her own.

When she took him up-stairs to bed, Dr. Lavendar's directions came
back to her with a slight shock--she must hear him say his prayers.
How was she to introduce the subject? The embarrassed color burned in
her cheeks as she helped him undress and tried to decide on the proper
moment to speak of--prayers. But David took the matter into his own
hands. As he stepped into his little night-clothes, buttoning them
around his waist with slow precision, he said:

"Now I'll say my prayers. Sit by the window; then I can see that star
when I open my eyes. It's hard to keep your eyes shut so long, ain't
it?" he added confidentially.

Helena sat down, her heart fluttering in her throat. David knelt
beside her, shutting first one eye and then the other. "'Now I lay
me--"' he began in a businesslike voice. At the Amen he opened his eyes
and drew a long breath. Helena moved slightly and he shut his eyes
again; "I've not done yet.

"'Jesus, tender Shepherd, hear me, Bless Thy little lamb to-night--'"

He paused and looked up at Mrs. Richie. "Can I say colt?" Before she
could reply he decided for himself. "No; colts don't have shepherds;
it has to be lamb."

Her silent laughter did not disturb him. He finished with another
satisfied Amen. Helena put her arms about him to raise him from the
floor, but he looked up, aggrieved.

"Why, I've not done yet," he reproached her "You've forgot the
blessings."

"The blessings?" she asked timidly.

"Why, of course," said David, trying to be patient; "but I'm most
done," he encouraged her. "God bless everybody--Dr. Lavendar taught me
the new blessings," he interrupted himself, his eyes snapping open,
"because my old blessings were all gone to heaven. God bless
everybody; Dr. Lavendar, an' Mary, an' Goliath--" Helena laughed. "He
said I could," David defended himself doggedly--"an' Danny, an' Dr.
King, an' Mrs. Richie. And make me a good boy. For Jesus' sake Amen.
Now I'm done!" cried David, scrambling happily to his feet.

"And--Mr. Pryor, too? Won't you ask God to bless Mr. Pryor?"

"But," said David, frowning, "I'm done."

"After this, though, it would be nice--"

"Well," David answered coldly, "God can bless him if He wants to. But
He needn't do it just to please me."




CHAPTER XI


When Dr. Lavendar left David at the Stuffed Animal House, he didn't
feel, somehow, like going home; the Rectory would be so quiet. It
occurred to him that, as he was on the hill, he might as well look in
on Benjamin Wright.

He found the old gentleman in his beaver hat and green serge dressing-
gown, tottering up and down the weedy driveway in front of his
veranda, and repeating poetry.

"O great corrector of enormous times, Shaker of o'er rank states, thou
grand decider Of dusty and old titles, that healest with blood--Hello!
'Bout time you came to see me. I suppose you want to get some money
out of me for something?"

"Of course; I always want money out of somebody for something. There's
a leak in the vestry roof. How are you?"

"How do you suppose I am? At eighty-one, with one foot in the grave!
Ready to jump over a five-barred gate?"

"I'm seventy-two," said Dr. Lavendar, "and I played marbles
yesterday."

"Come in and have a smoke," the older man said, hobbling on to the
veranda, where four great white columns, blistered and flaked by time,
supported a roof that darkened the shuttered windows of the second
story.

He led the way indoors to the dining-room, growling that his nigger,
Simmons, was a fool. "He _says_ he closes the shutters to keep the
flies out; makes the room as dark as a pocket, and there ain't any
flies this time of year, anyhow. He does it to stop my birds from
singing; he can't fool me! To stop my birds!" He went over to one of
the windows and pushed the shutters open with a clatter; instantly a
twitter ran from cage to cage, and the fierce melancholy of his old
face softened. "Hear that?" he said proudly.

"I ought to come oftener," Dr. Lavendar reproached himself; "he's
lonely."

And, indeed, the room with its mammoth sideboard black with age and
its solitary chair at one end of the long table, was lonely enough. On
the walls, papered a generation ago with a drab paper sprinkled over
with occasional pale gilt medallions, were some time-stained
engravings: "The Destruction of Nineveh"; "The Trial of Effie Deans";
"The Death-bed of Washington." A gloomy room at best; now, with the
shutters of one window still bowed, and the faint twitter of the
canaries, and that one chair at the head of the table, it was very
melancholy.

"Sit down!" said Benjamin Wright. Still in his moth-eaten high hat, he
shuffled about to fetch from the sideboard a fat decanter with a
silver chain and label around its neck, and two tumblers.

"No," said Dr. Lavendar; "I'm obliged to you."

"What, temperance?" snarled the other.

"Well, I hope so," Dr. Lavendar said, "but not a teetotaler, if that's
what you mean. Only I don't happen to want any whiskey at five o'clock
in the afternoon."

At which his host swore softly, and lifting the decanter poured out
two good fingers.

"Mr. Wright," said Dr. Lavendar, "I will be obliged if you will not
swear in my presence."

"You needn't talk to me," cried Benjamin Wright, "I despise this
damned profanity there is about; besides, I am always scrupulously
particular in my language before females and parsons. Well;--I wanted
to see you, because that jack-donkey, Sam, my grandson, is causing me
some anxiety."

"Why, Sam is a good boy," Dr. Lavendar protested.

"Too good. I like a boy to be human at twenty-three. He doesn't know
the wickedness of the world."

"Thank God," said Dr. Lavendar.

"Dominie, ignorance ain't virtue."

"No; but it's a fair substitute. I wouldn't want one of my boys to be
able to pass an examination on wrong-doing."

"But you want him to recognize it when he sees it, don't you?"

"If he knows goodness, you can trust him to recognize the other thing.
Teach 'em goodness. Badness will label itself,"

"Doesn't follow," Benjamin Wright said. "But you're a parson; parsons
know about as much as females--good females. Look here! I have reasons
for saying that the boy ought to get out of Old Chester. I want your
assistance."

"Get out of Old Chester!--to see how wicked the world is?"

Mr. Wright shook his head. "No; he could see that here--only the puppy
hasn't got his eyes open yet. A little knocking about the world, such
as any boy ought to have, will open 'em. Living in Old Chester is
narrowing; very narrowing. Besides, he's got--well, he's got some
truck he's written. It isn't entirely bad, Lavendar, and he might as
well try to get it published, or, maybe, produced in some theatre. So
let him go and hunt up a publisher or a manager. Now, very likely,
his--his _mother_ won't approve. I want you to urge--her, to let him
go."

"Travelling might be good for Sam," said Dr. Lavendar; "I admit that--
though not to learn the wickedness of the world. But I don't know that
it would be worth while to take a journey just on account of his
writing. He could put it in an envelope and mail it to a publisher;
he'd get it back just as soon," Dr. Lavendar said chuckling. "Look
here, what's the matter? I can see you're concerned about the boy."

"Concerned?" cried Benjamin Wright, pounding the table with his
tumbler and chewing orange-skin rapidly. "I'm damned concerned."

"I will ask, sir, that you will not swear in my presence."

Mr. Wright coughed. "I will endeavor to respect the cloth," he said
stiffly.

"If you will respect yourself, it will be sufficient. As for Sam, if
there's anything wrong, his father ought to know it."

"Well then, tell his--_mother_, that there is something wrong."

"What?"

Mr. Wright got up, and clasping his hands behind him, shuffled about
the room. Instantly one of the canaries began to sing. "Stop that!" he
said. The bird quivered with shrill music. "Stop! You! ... There's no
such thing as conversation, with these creatures about," he added in a
proud aside. "Did you ever hear such singing?"

Dr. Lavendar, unable to make himself heard, shook his head.

"If you don't stop," said Mr. Wright, "I'll wring your neck!" and as
the bird continued, he opened the door. "Simmons! You freckled nigger!
Bring me the apron." Then he stamped, and cursed the slowness of
niggers. Simmons, however, came as fast as his old legs could carry
him, bearing a blue gingham apron. This, thrown over the cage,
produced silence.

"There! Now, perhaps, you'll hold your tongue? ... Lavendar, I prefer
not to say what is wrong. Merely tell Sam's--_mother_, that he
had better go. If she is too mean to provide the money, I will."

"Sam's father is not too mean to do anything for Sam's welfare; but of
course, a general accusation is not convincing; should not be
convincing--Why!" said Dr. Lavendar, interrupting himself, "bless my
heart! I believe you mean that the boy is making sheep's-eyes at your
neighbor here on the hill? Is that it? Why, Benjamin, the best way to
cure that is to pay no attention to it."

"Sir," said Mr. Wright, sinking into his chair breathlessly, and
tapping the table with one veined old finger; "when I was a young man,
it was not thought proper to introduce the name of a female into a
discussion between gentlemen."

"Well," Dr. Lavendar admitted, "maybe not--when you were young. But
all of us young folks in Old Chester know perfectly well that Sam is
smitten, and we are ignoring it."

"What! His--_mother_ knows it?"

"His father knows it perfectly well," said Dr. Lavendar smiling.

Mr. Wright got up again, his fingers twitching with impatience.
"Lavendar," he began--another bird trilled, and snarling with
annoyance, he pulled the blue apron from the first cage and threw it
over the second. "These creatures drive me distracted! ... Lavendar,
to get Sam out of Old Chester, I might almost consent to see his--
_mother_, if there was no other way to accomplish it."

At that Dr. Lavendar stopped smiling. "Benjamin," he said solemnly,
"if any foolishness on the part of the boy brings you to such wisdom,
the hand of the Lord will be in it!"

"I don't want to see--his relations!" cried Benjamin Wright; "but
Sam's got to get away from this place for a while, and if you won't
persuade his--_mother_ to allow it, why I might be driven to
seeing--her. But why shouldn't he try to get his truck published?"

Dr. Lavendar was very much moved. "If you'll only see your son," he
said, "this other business will straighten itself out somehow. But--"
he paused; "getting Sam's play published isn't a very good excuse for
seeing him. I'd rather have him think you were worried because the boy
had an attack of calf-love. No; I wouldn't want you to talk about
theatrical things," Dr. Lavendar ended thoughtfully.

"Why not?"

"Well, the fact is, Samuel has no sympathy with dramas or playhouses.
I do not myself approve of the theatre, but I am told respectable
persons have adopted the profession. Samuel, however, can't find any
good in it."

"He can't, can't he? Well, well; it was efficacious--it was
efficacious!"

"What was efficacious?"

Benjamin Wright laughed loudly. "You--don't know? He never told you?"

"You mean what you and he quarrelled about? No; he never told me."

"He was a fool."

"Benjamin, if you were not a fool at twenty-four; you missed a good
deal."

"And now he objects to theatrical things?"

"He objects so intensely," said Dr. Lavendar, "that, anxious as I am
to have you meet and bring this foolish and wicked quarrel to an end,
I should really hesitate to have you do so, if you insisted on
discussing that subject."

Benjamin Wright lifted one trembling fist. "It was efficacious!"

"And you would give your right hand to undo it," said Dr. Lavendar.

The very old man lowered his shaking right hand and looked at it; then
he said sullenly, "I only wanted his own good. You ought to see that--
a parson!"

"But you forget; I don't know what it was about."

Mr. Wright's face twitched. "Well," he said spasmodically, "I'll-tell
you. I--"

"Yes?"

"I--" his voice broke, then he coughed, then he tried to laugh.
"Simple enough; simple enough. I had occasion to send him to Mercer.
He was to come back that night." Mr. Wright stopped; poured some
whiskey into his glass, and forgetting to add any water, drank it at a
gulp, "He didn't come back until the next afternoon."

"Yes. Well?"

"In those days I was of--of somewhat hasty temper."

"So I have heard," said Dr, Lavendar,

Benjamin Wright glared. "When I was young, listening to gossip was not
thought becoming in the cloth. When he came, I learned that he had
stayed over in Mercer--without my consent, mark you--_to go to the
theatre!_"

"Well?" said Dr, Lavendar. "He was twenty-four. Why should he have
your consent?"

Mr., Wright waved this question aside. "When he came home, I spoke
with some severity,"

"This quarrel," said Dr. Lavendar, "is not built on such folly as
that."

Benjamin Wright shook his head, and made a careless gesture with his
trembling hand. "Not--entirely. I reproved him, as I say. And he was
impertinent. Impertinent, mind you, to his father! And I--in those
days my temper was somewhat quick--I--"

"Yes?"

But Mr. Wright seemed unable to proceed, except to say again, "I--
reproved him,"

"But," Dr. Lavendar protested, "you don't mean to tell me that Samuel,
just for a reproof, an unkind and unjust reproof, would--why, I cannot
believe it!"

"It was not unjust!" Benjamin Wright's melancholy eyes flamed angrily.

"I know, Samuel," said Dr. Lavendar. "He is obstinate; I've told him
so a hundred times. And he's conceited--so's everybody, more or less;
if in nothing else, we're conceited because we're not conceited. But
he's not a fool. So, whether he is right or not, I am sure he thinks
he had something more to complain of than a good blowing-up?"

"In a way," said the old man, examining his ridgy finger-nails and
speaking with a gasp, "he had. Slightly."

Dr. Lavendar's stern lip trembled with anxiety. "What?"

"I--chastised him; a little."

"You--_what_?"

Benjamin Wright nodded; the wrinkled pouches under his eyes grew dully
red. "My God!" he said plaintively; "think of that--a hasty moment!
Thirty-two years; my God! I--spanked him."

Dr. Lavendar opened his lips to speak, but found no words.

"And he was offended! Offended? What right had he to be offended?
_I_ was the offended party. He went to a low theatre. Apparently
you see nothing wrong in that? Well, I've always said that every
parson had the making of an actor in him. It's a toss-up--the stage or
the pulpit. Same thing at bottom. But perhaps even you won't approve
of his staying away all night? Smoking! Drinking! He'd been drunk. He
confessed it. And there was a woman in it. He confessed that. Said
they'd all 'gone to supper together.' Said that he was 'seeing the
world'--which a man ('_man_,' if you please!) of his years had a
right to do. Well; I suppose you'd have had me smile at him, and tuck
him up in bed to sleep off his headache, and give him a stick of
candy? That wasn't my way. I reproved him. I--chastised him. Perfectly
proper. Perhaps--unusual. He was twenty-four, and I laid him across my
knee, and--well; I got over it in fifteen minutes. I was, perhaps,
hasty My temper in those days was not what it is now. But I forgave
him in fifteen minutes; and he had gone! He's been gone--for thirty-
two years. My God!"

He poured out another finger of whiskey, but forgot to drink it. A
canary-bird chirped loudly, then lapsed into a sleepy twitter.

"I was well rid of him! To make a quarrel out of a thing like that--a
joke, as you might say. I laughed, myself, afterwards, at the thought
of it. A fellow of twenty-four--spanked! Why didn't he swear and be
done with it? I would have reproved him for his profanity, of course.
Profanity in young persons is a thing I will not tolerate; Simmons
will tell you so. But it would have cleared the air. If he had done
that, we'd have been laughing about it, now;--he and I, together." The
old man suddenly put both hands over his face, and a broken sound came
from behind them.

Dr. Lavendar shook his head, speechlessly.

"What's the matter with you?" cried Benjamin Wright, pulling off his
hat and banging it down on the table so fiercely that the crown
collapsed on one side like an accordion. "Good God! Can't you see the
tomfoolery of this business of thirty-two years of hurt feelings?"

Dr. Lavendar was silent.

"What! You excuse him? When I was young, parsons believed in the Ten
Commandments; 'Honor thy father and thy mother--'"

"There is another scripture which saith, 'Fathers, provoke not your
children to wrath.' And when it comes to the Commandments, I would
commend the third to your attention. As for Samuel, you robbed him."

"Robbed him?"

"You took his self-respect. A young man's dignity, at twenty-four, is
as precious to him as a woman's modesty. You stole it. Yes; you robbed
him. Our Heavenly Father doesn't do that, when He punishes us. We lose
our dignity ourselves; but He never robs us of it. Did ye ever notice
that? Well; you robbed Samuel. My--my--_my!_" Dr. Lavendar sighed
wearily. For, indeed, the matter looked very dark. Here was the moment
he had prayed for--the readiness of one or the other of the two men to
take the first step towards reconciliation. Such readiness, he had
thought, would mean the healing of the dreadful wound, whatever it
was; forgiveness on the father's part of some terrible wrong-doing,
forgiveness on the son's part of equally terrible hardness of heart.
Instead he found a cruel and ridiculous mortification, made permanent
by thirty-two unpardoning years. Here was no sin to command the
dreadful dignity of repentance, with its divine response of
forgiveness. The very lack of seriousness in the cause made the effect
more serious. He looked over at the older man, and shook his head....
How could they pay their debts to each other, this father and son?
Could Benjamin Wright return the self-respect he had stolen away?
Could Samuel offer that filial affection which should have blessed all
these empty years? A wickedly ludicrous memory forbade the solemnity
of a reconciliation: below any attempt the father might make, there
would be a grin, somewhere; below any attempt the son might make,
there would be a cringe, somewhere. The only possible hope was in
absolute, flat commonplace. Play-writing, as a subject of
conversation, was out of the question!

"Benjamin," he said with agitation, "I thank God that you are willing
to see Samuel; but you must promise me not to refer to Sam's play. You
must promise me this, or the last end of the quarrel will be worse
than the first."

"I haven't said I was willing to see him," Mr. Wright broke out; "I'm
_not_ willing! Is it likely that I would hanker after an interview?
All I want is to get the boy away from Old Chester; to 'see the
world.' His--father ought to sympathize with that! Yes; to get him
away, I would even--But if you will tell his--relatives, that in my
judgment, he ought to go away, that is all that is necessary."

"No! You must urge it yourself," Dr. Lavendar said eagerly. "Put it on
the ground of calf-love, if you want to. I'll tell Samuel you want to
get Sam out of town because you're afraid he's falling in love with
Mrs. Richie; and you'd like to consult him about it."

But the old man began a scrabbling retreat. "No! No!" he said, putting
on his hat with shaking hands. "No, don't tell anybody anything. I'll
find some other way out of it. Let it go. Seeing his--relatives is a
last resource. If they are so virtuous as to object to plays, I'll try
something else. Object?" he repeated, "Gad-a-mercy! My discipline was
successful!" He grinned wickedly.

Dr. Lavendar made no reply. The interview had been a strain, and he
got up a little feebly. Benjamin Wright, as he saw him to the door,
swore again at some misdemeanor on the part of Simmons, but was not
rebuked.

The old minister climbed into his buggy, and told Goliath to "g'long."
As he passed the Stuffed Animal House, he peered through the little
dusty window of the hood; but David was not in sight.




CHAPTER XII


"I think," said Dr. Lavendar, as he and Goliath came plodding into
Old Chester in the May dusk, "I think I'll go and see Willy. He'll
tell me how much Sam's love-making amounts to."

His mind was on the matter to such an extent that he hardly heard
Mary's anxious scolding because he looked tired, but his preoccupation
lifted at supper, in the consciousness of how lonely he was without
David. He really wanted to get out of the house and leave the
loneliness behind him. So after tea he put on his broad-brimmed felt
hat and tied a blue muffler around his throat--Dr. Lavendar felt the
cold a good deal; he said it was because the seasons were changing--
and walked wearily over to Dr. King's house. That talk with Benjamin
Wright had told on him.

"Well," he said, as the doctor's wife opened the door, "how are you,
Martha?"

"Very tired," said Mrs. King. "And dear me, Dr. Lavendar, you look
tired yourself. You're too old to do so much, sir. Come in and sit
down."

"I'll sit down," said Dr. Lavendar, dropping into a chair in the
parlor; "but don't flatter yourself, Martha, that you'll ever be as
young as I am!" ("He _is_ failing," Mrs. King told her husband
afterwards. "He gets his words all mixed up. He says 'young' when he
means 'old.' Isn't that a sign of something, William?" "It's a sign of
grace," said the doctor shortly.)

  "I want Willy to come over and give my Mary a pill," Dr. Lavendar
explained. "She is as cross as a bear, and cross people are generally
sick people--although I suppose that's Mary's temperament," he added
sighing.

Martha shook her head. "In my judgment _temperament_ is just another
word for temper: I don't believe in making excuses for it. That's a
great trick of William's, I'm sorry to say."

"I should have thought you'd have cured him of it by this time?" Dr.
Lavendar murmured; and then he asked if the doctor was out.

"Oh, yes," said Mrs. King, dryly; "Willy always manages to get out in
the evening on one excuse or another. You'd think he'd be glad of a
restful evening at home with me, sometimes. But no. William's patients
need a surprising amount of attention, though his bills don't show it
When Mrs. Richie's cook was sick--just as an instance--he went six
times to see her. I counted."

"Well; she got well?"' said Dr. Lavendar.

"Got well? She'd have got well if he hadn't gone near her." Martha
began to stroke the gathers on a bit of cambric with a precise needle
that suddenly trembled. "The woman herself was not to blame it's only
just to say that--And there's one thing about me, Dr, Lavendar; I may
not be perfect, but I am always just. No, she was not to blame; it was
Mrs. Richie who sent for William. She is the most helpless woman I
ever saw, for her years;--she is at least forty, though she uses
sachet-powders, and wears undersleeves all trimmed with lace, as if
she were six teen! I don't want to find fault, Dr, Lavendar, but I
must say that _I_ wouldn't have trusted that little boy to her."

"Oh," said Dr, Lavendar, "I trusted _her_ to the little boy! She'll be
so busy looking after his sleeves, she'll forget her own."

Mrs. King sniffed, doubtfully. "I'm sure I hope you are right; but in
my opinion, she's a very helpless and foolish woman;--if nothing
worse. Though according to my ideas, the way she lets Sam Wright's Sam
behave is worse!"

Dr. Lavendar was suddenly attentive, "How does she let him behave?"

"Well, he is so daft over--her that he neglects his work at the bank
to write verses. Why doesn't she stop it?'"

"Because," said William King, appearing in the doorway, smelling
honestly of the barn and picking off a straw here and there from his
sleeve; "she knows nothing about it,"

Dr. Lavendar and Martha both looked up, startled at his tone.

"Women," said the doctor, "would gossip about a--a clam!"

"I am not gossiping?" Martha defended herself; but Dr. Lavendar
interrupted her, cheerfully,

"Well, I am, I came over to gossip with William on this very
subject.--Martha, will you let him put a match to that grate? I declare,
the seasons are changing. When I was your age it wasn't cold enough
to have a fire in May.--Look here, Willy, what do you mean by saying
Mrs. Richie doesn't know Sam's sentiments?"

"I mean that women like Mrs. Richie are so unconscious, they don't see
things like that. She's as unconscious as a girl."

"Tck!" said Martha.

"A girl!" said Dr, Lavendar.--"Say a tree, or a boy but don't say a
girl. Why, William, everybody sees it. Even Benjamin Wright. Of course
she knows it."

"She doesn't; she isn't the kind that thinks of things like that. Of
course, some women would have discovered it months ago; one of your
strong-minded ladies, perhaps--only Sam wouldn't have been spoony on
that kind."

"Well!" said Martha, "I must say, flat--"

But William interrupted her--"To prove what I say: she lets him come
in and bore her to death, just out of kindness. Do you suppose she
would do that if she knew he was such an idiot as to presume to--to--"

"Well," said Dr. Lavendar, "as there is so much ignorance about,
perhaps Sam doesn't know he's lost his heart?"

But at that William laughed, "_He_ knows; Trust a young fellow!
That's just the difference between a man and a woman, sir; the man
always knows; the woman, if she's the right kind, doesn't--until she's
told."

"Tck!" said Martha,

Dr. Lavendar looked down at the bowl of his pipe then he said meekly,
"I was under the impression that Eve ate her apple before Adam had so
much as a bite. Still, whether Mrs. Richie knows the state of Sam's
affections or not, I do wish she would urge him to put his mind on his
work. That's what I came in to speak to you about. His father is all
on edge about it, and now his grandfather has taken it into his head
to be worried over it, too But you know her better than the rest of us
do, and I thought perhaps you'd drop a hint that she would be doing
missionary work if she'd influence the boy to be more industrious."

"I'll go and talk it over with her," Martha volunteered. "I am always
ready to advise any one."

William King got up and kicked at a lump of coal in the grate. "I am
sure you are," he said dryly; "but no talking over is necessary., I
shall probably be going up the hill in a few days, and I'll say a word
if Dr. Lavendar wants me to. Nothing definite; just enlist her
sympathy for his father--and get her to protect herself, too. He must
be an awful nuisance."

"That's it!" said Dr. Lavendar. "I'd do it myself, but you know her
better than I do. I'm getting acquainted with her through David. David
is really a remarkable child! I can't tell you how I miss him." And
then he began to relate David's sayings, while Martha sewed fiercely,
and William stared at the hearth-rug "The little rascal is no Peter
Grievous," Dr Lavendar declared, proudly; and told a story of a badly
barked knee, and a very stiff upper-lip; "and the questions he asks!"
said the old man, holding up both hands; "theological questions; the
House of Bishops couldn't answer 'em!" He repeated some of the
questions, watching the husband and wife with swift glances over his
spectacles; when he had wrung a reluctant laugh from the doctor, and
Mrs., King was not sewing so fast, he went home, not much rested by
his call.

But the result of the call was that at the end of the week Dr. King
went up to the Stuffed Animal House.

"We are shipwrecked!" cried Mrs. Richie, as she saw him coming down
the garden path towards the barn. Her face was flushed and gay, and
her hair, shaken from its shining wreath around her head, hung in two
braids down her back. She had had a swing put up under the big
buttonwood beside the stable, and David, climbing into it, had clung
to the rigging to be dashed, side wise, on to the rocks of the
carriageway, where Mrs. Richie stood ready to catch him when the
vessel should drive near enough to the shore. In an endeavor to save
himself from some engulfing sea which his playmate had pointed out to
him, David had clutched at her, breaking the top hook of her gown and
tearing her collar apart, leaving throat, white and round, open to the
hot sun. Before the doctor reached her, she caught her dress together,
and twisted her hair into a knot. "You can't keep things smooth in a
shipwreck," she excused herself, laughing.

David sighed, and looked into the carriage-house. In that jungle--Mrs.
Richie had called it a jungle--were wild beasts; there were also
crackers and apples--or to be exact, breadfruit and citrons--hanging
from what George called "harness-racks," though of course, as
thoughtful persons know, they were trees; David was to gather these
tropical spoils, and then escape from the leopard, the shark, the
crocodile! And now there was Dr. King, spoiling everything.

The doctor sat down on a keg and looked at the two, smiling. "Which is
the younger of you?" he said. It came over him, in a gust of
amusement, what Martha would say to such a scene, and he laughed
aloud.

"Dr. King," said David, in a small distinct voice, "won't Jinny run
away, if you leave her so long at gate?"

"Oh, David!" cried Mrs. Richie, horrified. But the visitor threw back
his head with a shout.

"That's what my wife would call speaking 'flatly and frankly'! Well,
Mrs. Richie, I never wrote a better prescription in my life. You look
like a different woman, already."

And, indeed, the youth in her face was as careless as David's own. But
it flagged when he added that he hoped her brother would not think the
care of David would be too much for her.

"Oh, no," she said, briefly.

"I feel like saying 'I told you so'! I knew you would like to have a
child about."

"I do, but he is a tyrant. Aren't you, David? I have to get up for
breakfast!"

"Terrible," said William delightedly.

"Why, but it _is_. I don't know when I've done such a thing! At first
I thought I really couldn't. But I couldn't leave him all by himself,
down-stairs--could I, David?"

"I'd just as lieves," said David, gently.

"Oh, how like your sex!" Helena cried.

"What do you suppose I've come for?" Dr. King began in the bantering
tone one uses to a child. "I've come to get you to exert your
influence to improve business. _Business!_" he repeated, delighted at
his own absurdity; "a lady who finds it hard to get up in the
mornings."

She looked at him ruefully; "I'm lazy, I am afraid." "No, you're
not--it's a very sensible thing to do, if you are not strong. Well, I
must tell you what we want; Sam Wright is anxious, because young Sam
neglects his work at the bank, and--"

"But he doesn't like business," she explained with a surprised look;
and William laughed with pleasure.

"So that's a reason for not attending to it? Unfortunately, that's the
young man's own point of view. He's a queer youngster," William added
in his kind voice.

"I don't think it's queer not to like disagreeable things," Helena
said.

"Well, no; but all the same, we've got to stand them. Sam has no
patience with anything disagreeable. Why, when he was a little
fellow--let me see, he was younger than David; about four, I think--he
scratched his finger one day pretty severely; it smarted, I guess,
badly. Anyway, he roared! Then he picked up a pair of scissors and ran
bawling to his mother; 'Mamma, cut finger off! It hurts Sam--cut
finger off!' That's been his principle ever since: 'it hurts--get rid
of it.'"

"I don't blame him in the least," Helena protested gayly; "I'm sure
I've wanted to 'cut finger off.' And I have done it, too!"

"Well," said the doctor with great pretence of gravity, "I suppose,
then, we'll have to tell old Mr. Wright that nobody must ever do
anything he doesn't want to do? It appears that he's worried, too,
because the young gentleman isn't industrious. The fact is, he thinks
Sam would rather come up here than work over his ledgers," he teased.

Helena sprung to her feet, nervously. "But I wish he wouldn't come! I
don't want him to come. I can't help it; indeed I--I can't help it!"
She spoke with a sort of gasp. Instantly David, who had been lounging
in the swing, slipped down and planted himself directly in front of
her, his arms stretched out at each side. "I'll take care of you," he
said protectingly.

William King caught his breath. No one could have heard the frightened
note in her voice without understanding David's impulse. The doctor
shared it. Evidently Sam had been making love to her, and her very
innocence made her quick to feel herself rebuked! William felt an
ardent desire to kick Sam Wright's Sam.

But Mrs. Richie was herself again; she laughed, though not quite
naturally, and sat down in the swing, swaying slightly back and forth
with an indolent push of her pretty foot. David lounged against her
knee, eying the doctor with frank displeasure. "I am sure," she said,
"I wish Sam would attend to his ledgers; it would be much better than
making visits."

"Dr. King," David said, gently, "I'll shake hands now, and say good-
by."

The laugh that followed changed the subject, although warm in
William's consciousness the thought remained that she had let him know
what the subject meant to her: he shared a secret with her! She had
told him, indirectly perhaps, but still told him, of her troubles with
young Sam. It was as if she had put out her hand and said, "Help me!"
Inarticulately he felt what David had said, "I'll take care of you!"
And his first care must be to make her forget what had distressed her.
He said with the air of one imparting interesting information, that
some time in the next fortnight he would probably go to Philadelphia
on business. "Can I do any errands for you? Don't you ladies always
want ribbons, or something."

"Does Mrs. King let you buy ribbons for her?" Helena asked.

"Ribbons! I am to buy yarn, and some particular brand of lye for
soap."

"Lye! How do you make soap out of lye?"

"You save all the "--William hesitated for a sufficiently delicate
word--"the--fat, you know, in the kitchen, and then you make soft
soap."

"Why! I didn't know that was how soap was made."

"I'm glad you didn't," said William King. "I mean--it's disagreeable,"
he ended weakly. And then, to David's open joy, he said good-by and
jogged off down the hill, leaving Mrs. Richie to her new
responsibilities of discipline.

"Now, David, come here. I've got to scold you."

David promptly climbed up into the swing and settled himself in her
lap. Then he snuggled his little nose down into her neck. "I'm a
bear," he announced. "I'm eating you. Now, you scream and I'll roar."

"Oh, David, you little monkey! Listen to me: you weren't very polite
to Dr. King."

"O-o-o-o-o-o!" roared the bear.

"You should make him feel you were glad to see him."

"I wasn't," mumbled David.

"But you must have manners, dear little boy."

"I have," David defended himself, sitting up straight. "I have them in
my head; but I only use them sometimes."

Upon which the disciplinarian collapsed; "You rogue!" she said; "come
here, and I'll give you 'forty kisses'!"

David was instantly silent; he shrank away, lifting his shoulder
against his cheek and looking at her shyly. "I won't, dear!" she
reassured him, impetuously: "truly I won't."

But she said to herself she must remember to repeat the speech about
manners to the doctor; it would make him laugh.

William laughed easily when he came to the Stuffed Animal House.
Indeed, he had laughed when he went away from it, and stopped for a
minute at Dr. Lavendar's to tell him that Mrs. Richie was just as
anxious as anybody that Sam Wright should attend to his business.
"_Business_!" said the doctor, "much she knows about it!" And then he
added that he was sure she would do her part to influence the boy to
be more industrious. "And you may depend on it, she won't allow any
love-making," said William.

He laughed again suddenly, out loud, as he ate his supper that night,
because some memory of the after-noon came into his head. When Martha,
starting at the unusual sound, asked what he was laughing at, he told
her he had found Mrs. Richie playing with David Allison. "They were
like two children; I said I didn't know which was the younger. They
were pretending they were shipwrecked; the swing was the vessel, if
you please!"

"I suppose she was trying to amuse him," Mrs. King said. "That's a
great mistake with children. Give a child a book, or put him down to
some useful task; that's my idea."

"Oh, she was amusing herself," William explained. Mrs. King was
silent.

"She gets up for breakfast now, on account of David; it's evidently a
great undertaking!" the doctor said humorously.

Martha held her lips hard together.

"You ought to hear her housekeeping ideas," William rambled on. "I
happened to say you wanted some lye for soap. She didn't know soap was
made with lye! You would have laughed to hear her--"

But at that the leash broke: "_Laughed_? I hope not! I hope I wouldn't
laugh because a woman of her age has no more sense than a child. And
she gets up for breakfast, does she? Well, why shouldn't she get up
for breakfast? I am very tired, but I get up for breakfast. I don't
mean to be severe, William, and I never am; I'm only just. But
I must say, flatly and frankly, that ignorance and laziness do not
seem _funny_ to me. Laugh? Would you laugh if I stayed in bed in
the mornings, and didn't know how to make soap, and save your money
for you? I guess not!"

The doctor's face reddened and he closed his lips with a snap. But
Martha found no more fault with Mrs. Richie. After a while she said in
that virtuous voice familiar to husbands, "William, I know you don't
like to do it, so I cleaned all the medicine-shelves in your office
this morning."

"Thank you," William said, curtly; and finished his supper in absolute
silence.




CHAPTER XIII


Dr. Lavendar was not sleeping very well that spring. He fell into the
habit of waking at about three, just when the birds begin the
scattered twittering that swells into full clamor and then dies
suddenly into silence. In that gray stillness, broken by bird-calls,
he used to occupy himself by thinking of his people.

"The name of the large upper chamber, facing the east, was Peace." And
so this old pilgrim found it, lying in his four-poster, listening to
the cries and calls in the jargonelle pear-tree in the corner of the
garden, and watching the ghostly oblong of the window that faced the
east, glimmer and brighten into the effulgence of day. It was then,
with his old hands folded on his breast, that he thought about the
Wrights--all three of them....

It was a relief to know that Mrs. Richie would influence Sam to put
his mind on his work; if the boy would do that, his father would be
less irritated with him. And William's assurance that she would not
allow any love-making ought to end his grandfather's worry. But while
that worry lasted it must be utilized....

The room was slipping out of the shadows. Dr. Lavendar could see the
outline of the window distinctly. The bureau loomed up in the grayness
like a rock; opposite the bed, under a high wooden mantel was the
cavernous blackness of the chimney, Dr. Lavendar reflected that it
must be nearly four....

The question was, when should he use this weapon of Benjamin Wright's
worry, on the two hard hearts? He had made several attempts to use it,
only to feel the blade turn in his hand: He had asked Mr. Wright when
he was going to talk things over with Samuel, and the old man had
instantly declared that he had changed his mind. He had mentioned to
his senior warden that Benjamin was troubled about his grandson's
sheep's-eyes, and Samuel's studied deafness had put an end to
conversation. So Dr. Lavendar had made up his mind that a matter of
this kind cannot be forced. A thirty-two-year-old wound is not to be
healed in a day. He took any chance that offered to drop a suggestive
word; but he did not try to hurry his Heavenly Father. For it was Dr.
Lavendar's belief that God was more anxious about that reconciliation
than he was....

A line of light threaded its way under the window-curtain, and fell in
a spot of fluid gold upon the mirror. He watched it move silently
across the powdery surface: suddenly another dimpling pool appeared on
the soot of the chimney-back, and his eye followed the tremulous beam
to its entrance over the top of the shutter. The birds were shouting
now in full voice. How fond Benjamin was of his poor caged creatures.
Well, he had so little else to be fond of; "and I have so much,"
thought Dr. Lavendar, shamefacedly;--"all my people. And David, the
rascal!" Then he chuckled; Dr. Lavendar was under the delusion that he
was unprejudiced in regard to David: "a very unusual child!" he
assured himself, gravely. No wonder Mrs. Richie liked to have him.--
And he would be the making of her! he would shake her out of her
selfishness. "Poor girl, I guess, by the way she talks, she has never
known anything but self. David will wake her up. But I've got to look
out that she doesn't spoil him." It was this belief of what David
might do for Mrs. Richie that had reconciled him to parting with the
little boy.

His eyes wandered to the window; a glittering strip of green light
between the bowed shutters meant that the sun was in the trees. Yes;
to be sure, for the birds had suddenly stopped singing.

Dr. Lavendar yawned and looked at his watch; five o'clock. He would
have liked to get up, but Mary would be worried if she knew he was
awake so long before breakfast. Well; he must try to have a nap, no,
the room was too light for that. He could see all the furniture; he
could count the pleats in the sun-burst of the tester; he could,
perhaps, see to read? He put his hand out for _Robinson Crusoe_,
and after that he possessed his soul in patience until he knew that
Mary would allow him to come down-stairs.

It was in one of those peaceful dawns early in June that he decided
that the moment had come to strike a decisive blow: he would go and
talk to Benjamin of Sam's Sam, and though truth demanded that he
should report Mrs. Richie's good sense he did not mean to insist upon
it too much; Benjamin's anxiety was the Lord's opportunity--so Dr.
Lavendar thought. He would admit Sam's sentimentality and urge putting
the matter before his father. Then he would pin Benjamin down to a
date. That secured, he would present a definite proposal to Samuel.
"He is the lion in the way," he told himself anxiously; "I am pretty
sure I can manage Benjamin." Yet surely if he could only put it
properly to Samuel, if he could express the pitiful trouble in the old
father's soul, the senior warden's heart would soften. "It must touch
him!" Dr. Lavendar thought, and closed his eyes for a moment....

When he said _Amen_, the bird-calls were like flutes of triumph.

On his way up the hill that morning, he paused under a great chestnut
to talk to David Allison, who, a strapful of books over his shoulder,
was running down the path to school. David was willing to be detained;
he pulled some grass for Goliath and told Dr. Lavendar that Mrs.
Richie had bought him a pair of suspenders. "And I said a bad word
yesterday," he ended proudly.

"Well, now, I'm sorry to hear that."

"It's been in me a good while," David explained, "but yesterday I said
it. It was 'damn.'"

"It's a foolish word, David; I never use it."

"You _don't_?" David said blankly, and all his pride was gone.
They parted with some seriousness; but Dr. Lavendar was still
chuckling when he turned in at Benjamin Wright's neglected carriage
road where burdocks and plantains grew rank between the wheel-tracks.
As he came up to the house he saw Mr. Wright sitting out in the sun on
the gravel of the driveway, facing his veranda. A great locust was
dropping its honey-sweet blossoms all about--on his bent shoulders, on
his green cashmere dressing-gown, on his shrunken knees, even one or
two on the tall beaver hat. A dozen bird-cages had been placed in a
row along the edge of the veranda, and he was nibbling orange-skin and
watching the canaries twittering and hopping on their perches. As he
heard the wheels of the buggy, he looked around, and raised a
cautioning hand:

"Look out! You scare my birds. Rein in that mettlesome steed of yours!
That green cock was just going to take a bath."

Goliath stopped at a discreet distance, and Dr. Lavendar sat still.
There was a breathless moment of awaiting the pleasure of the green
cock, who, balancing on the edge of his tub, his head on one side,
looked with inquisitive eyes at the two old men before deciding to
return to his perch and attack the cuttle-fish stuck between the bars
of his cage. Upon which Mr. Wright swore at him with proud affection,
and waved his hand to his visitor.

"Come on! Sorry I can't take you indoors. I have to sit out here and
watch these confounded fowls for fear a cat will come along. There's
not a soul I can trust to attend to it, so I have to waste my valuable
time. Sit down."

Dr. Lavendar clambered out of the buggy, and came up to the porch
where he was told to "_'Sh!_" while Mr. Wright held his breath to
see if the green cock would not bathe, after all.

"That nigger of mine is perfectly useless. Look at that perch! Hasn't
been cleaned for a week."

"Yes, suh; cleaned yesterday, suh," Simmons murmured, hobbling up with
a handful of chickweed which he arranged on the top of one of the
cages, its faint faded smell mingling with the heavy fragrance of the
locust blossoms.

"Whiskey!" Mr. Wright commanded.

"Not for me," said Dr. Lavendar; and there was the usual snarl, during
which Simmons disappeared. The whiskey was not produced.

"Lavendar, look at that cock--the scoundrel understands every word we
say."

"He does look knowing. Benjamin, I just dropped in to tell you that I
think you needn't worry so about Sam's Sam. Your neighbor has promised
Willy King that she will help us with him. But I want you to talk the
matter over with Samuel, and--" "My _neighbor?_" the older man
interrupted, his lower lip dropping with dismay. "Ye don't mean--the
female at the Stuffed Animal House?"

"Yes; Mrs. Richie. She will snub him if it's necessary, William says;
but she'll help us, by urging him to attend to his business. See?"

"I see--more than you do!" cried Benjamin Wright. "Much Willy King has
accomplished! It's just what I've always said;--if you want a thing
done, do it yourself. It's another case of these confounded canaries.
If they are not to be eaten up by some devilish cat, I've got to sit
out here and watch over 'em. If that boy is not to be injured, I've
got to watch over him. My neighbor is going to help? Gad-a-mercy!
Help!"

Dr. Lavendar took off his broad-brimmed felt hat and wiped his
forehead with his big red bandanna. "Benjamin, what's got into you? A
little being in love won't hurt him. Why, before I was his age I had
lost my heart to my grandmother's first cousin!"

But the older man was not listening. His anger had suddenly hardened
into alarm; he even forgot the canaries. "She's going to help?
Lavendar, this is serious; it is very serious. He's got to be sent
away!--if I have to see"--his voice trailed into a whisper; he looked
at Dr. Lavendar with startled eyes.

The green cock hopped down into his glass tub and began to ruffle and
splash, but Benjamin Wright did not notice him. Dr. Lavendar beamed.
"You mean you'll see his father?"

The very old man nodded. "Yes; I'll have to see--my son."

"Thank God!" said Dr. Lavendar.

"Dominie," said Mr. Wright, "it's better to make your manners when
you've got your 'baccy.' Yes; I'll have to see--his father; if there's
no other way of getting him out of town?"

"Of course there's no other way. Sam won't go without his father's
consent. But you mustn't make play-writing the excuse; you mustn't
talk about that."

"I won't talk about anything else," said Benjamin Wright.

Dr. Lavendar sighed, but he did not encourage perversity by arguing
against it. "Benjamin," he said, "I will tell Samuel of your wish to
see him--"

"My _wish!_"

Dr. Lavendar would not notice the interruption. "Will you appoint the
time?"

"Oh, the sooner the better; get through with it! Get through with it!"
He stared at his visitor and blinked rapidly; a moment later he shook
all over. "Lavendar, it will kill me!" He was very frail, this
shrunken old man in the green dressing-gown and high beaver hat, with
his lower lip sucked in like a frightened child's. The torch of life,
blown so often into furious flame by hurricanes of rage, had consumed
itself, and it seemed now as if its flicker might be snuffed out by
any slightest gust. "He may come up to-night," he mumbled, shivering
in the hot sunshine and the drift of locust blossoms, as if he were
cold.

"It can't be to-night; he's gone out West. He gets back Saturday. I'll
send him up Sunday evening--if I can."

"Gad-a-mercy, Lavendar," Benjamin Wright said whimpering, "you've got
to come, too!" He looked at his old friend with scared eyes. "I won't
go to the gate with you. Can't leave these birds. I'm a slave to 'em."

But Dr. Lavendar saw that shaking legs were the real excuse; and he
went away a little soberly in spite of his triumph. Would there be any
danger to Benjamin from the agitation of the interview? He must ask
Willy King. Then he remembered that the doctor had started for
Philadelphia that morning; so there was nothing to do but wait. "I'm
afraid there's some risk," he thought. "But Benjamin had better die in
peace than live in anger. Oh, this play-writing business! If I could
only depend on him to hold his tongue about it; but I can't." Then as
he and Goliath trudged along in the sun, he gave himself up to his own
rejoicings. "To think I was afraid to let him know that Mrs. Richie
could be depended upon to help us!" He looked up as if in smiling
confession to some unseen Friend. "Yes, indeed; 'He taketh the wise in
their own craftiness.' It was the promise of Mrs. Richie's help that
scared him into it! I won't be so crafty next time," he promised in
loving penitence.




CHAPTER XIV


In the stage the day he started for Philadelphia, William King read
over his Martha's memorandum with the bewildered carefulness peculiar
to good husbands: ten yards of crash; a pitcher for sorghum; samples
of yarn; an ounce of sachet-powder, and so forth.

"Now, what on earth does she want sachet-powder for?" he reflected.
But he did not reflect long; it suddenly came into his mind that
though Mrs. Richie had not given him any commission, he could
nevertheless do something for her. He could go, when he was in
Philadelphia, and call on her brother. "How pleased she'll be!" he
said to himself. Naturally, with this project in mind, he gave no more
thought to sachet-powders. He decided that he would turn up at Mr.
Pryor's house at six o'clock, and Pryor would ask him to supper. It
would save time to do that, and he needed to save time, for this one
day in Philadelphia was to be very busy. He had those errands for
Martha, and two medical appointments, and a visit to the tailor,--for
of late William thought a good deal about his clothes and discovered
that he was very shabby. He wished he had asked Mrs. Richie for her
brother's address; it took so long to look it up in the Directory.
Happily, the first name was unusual; there was only one Lloyd, or he
would have given up the search. He could not have called on all the
Johns or Thomases!

What with matching the yarn, and getting his drugs, and being terribly
cowed by the tailor, William had a hurried day. However, he managed to
reach Mr. Lloyd Pryor's house as the clock struck six. "Just in good
time," he said to himself, complacently. Indeed, he was ahead of time,
for it appeared that Mr. Pryor had not yet come home.

"But Miss Alice is in, sir," the smiling darky announced.

"Very well," said William King; "tell her 'Dr. King, from Old
Chester.'" He followed the man into a parlor that seemed to the
country doctor very splendid, and while he waited, he looked about
with artless curiosity, thinking that he must tell Martha of all this
grandeur. "No wonder she thinks we are stupid people in Old Chester,"
he thought. Now, certainly Martha had never had so disloyal a thought!
At that moment he heard a girlish step, and Lloyd Pryor's daughter
came into the room,--a pretty young creature, with blond hair parted
over a candid brow, and sweet, frank eyes.

"Dr. King?" she said smiling.

"Doesn't resemble her in the least," the doctor thought, getting on
his feet, and putting out a friendly, hand. "I am just in from Old
Chester," he said, "and I thought I'd come and say how-do-you-do to
your father, and tell you the latest news of Mrs. Richie--"

The front door banged, and Lloyd Pryor pushed aside the curtain.--
William had wondered what Martha would say to a curtain instead of a
door! His blank panic as he heard the doctor's last word, turned his
face white. ("Bad heart?" William asked himself.)

"_Dr. King!_ Alice, you needn't wait."

Alice, nodding pleasantly, left them, and her father, setting his
teeth, looked out through his curling eyelashes with deadly
intentness.

"Thought I'd come in and say how-do-you-do?" William King said, hungry
and friendly, but a little bewildered.

"Oh," said Mr. Pryor.

William put out his hand; there was a second's hesitation, then Lloyd
Pryor took it--and dropped it quickly.

"All well?" the doctor asked awkwardly.

"Yes; yes. All well. Very well, thank you. Yes."

"I was just passing. I thought perhaps your sister would be pleased if
I inquired; she didn't know I was coming, but--"

"You are very kind, I'm sure," the other broke in, his face relaxing.
"I am sorry that just at this moment I can't ask you to stay, but--"

"Certainly not," William King said shortly; "I was just passing. If
you have any message for Mrs. Richie--"

"Oh! Ah;--yes. Remember me to her. All well in Old Chester? Very kind
in you to look me up. I am sorry I--that it happens that--good-by--"

Dr. King nodded and took himself off; and Lloyd Pryor, closing the
door upon him, wiped the moisture from his forehead. "Alice, where are
you?"

"In the dining-room, daddy dear," she said. "Who is Dr. King?"

He gave her a furtive look and then put his arm over her shoulder.
"Nobody you know, Kitty."

"He said something about 'Mrs. Richie';--who is Mrs. Richie?"

"Some friend of his, probably. Got anything good for dinner,
sweetheart?"

As for William King, he walked briskly down the street, his face very
red. "Confound him!" he said. He was conscious of a desire to kick
something. That evening, after a bleak supper at a marble-topped
restaurant table, he tried to divert himself by going to see a play;
he saw so many other things that he came out in the middle of it. "I
guess I can get all the anatomy I want in my trade," he told himself;
and sat down in the station to await the midnight train.

It was not until the next afternoon, when he climbed into the stage at
Mercer and piled his own and Martha's bundles on the rack above him,
that he really settled down to think the thing over.... What did it
mean? The man had been willing to eat his bread; he had shown no
offence at anything; what the deuce--! He pondered over it, all the
way to Old Chester. When Martha, according to the custom of wives,
inquired categorically concerning his day in Philadelphia, he dragged
out most irritatingly vague answers. As she did not chance to ask,
"Did you hunt up Mr. Lloyd Pryor? Did you go to his house? Did you
expect an invitation and not receive it?" she was not informed on
these topics. But when at last she did say, "And my sachet-powder?" he
was compelled to admit that he had forgotten it.

Martha's lip tightened.

"I got the lye and stuff," her husband defended himself. "And what did
you want sachet-powder for, anyway?"

But Martha was silent.

After supper William strolled over to Dr. Lavendar's, and sat smoking
stolidly for an hour before he unbosomed himself. Dr. Lavendar did not
notice his uncommunicativeness; he had his own preoccupations.

"William, Benjamin Wright seems to be a good deal shaken this spring?"

Silence.

"He's allowed himself to grow old. Bad habit."

Silence.

"Got out of the way of doing things. Hasn't walked down the hill and
back for three years. He told me so himself."

"Indeed, sir?"

"For my part," Dr. Lavendar declared, "I have made a rule about such
things, which I commend to you, young man: _As soon as you feel too
old to do a thing_, DO IT!"

William gave the expected laugh.

"But he does seem shaken. Now, would it be safe, do you think, for him
to--well, very much excited? Possibly angered?"

"It wouldn't take much to anger Mr. Wright."

"No, it wouldn't," Dr. Lavendar admitted. "William, suppose I could
induce Samuel and his father to meet--"

"What!" The doctor woke up at that; he sat on the edge of his chair,
his hands on his knees, his eyes starting in his head. "_What!_"

"Well, suppose I could?" Dr. Lavendar said. "I have a notion to try
it. I don't know that I'll succeed. But suppose they met, and things
shouldn't run smoothly, and there should be an explosion--would there
be danger to Benjamin?"

William King whistled. "After all these years!" Then he reflected.
"Well, of course, sir, he is an old man. But he is like iron, Dr.
Lavendar. When he had quinsy two years ago, I thought he had come to
the end. Not a bit of it! He's iron. Only, of course, anger is a great
drain. Better caution Sam not to cross him."

"Then there would be some danger?"

"I shouldn't like to see him get into a rage," the doctor admitted.
"But why should he get into a rage, if they are going to patch things
up? Good Lord!" said William King, gaping with astonishment; "at
last!"

"I haven't said they would patch things up. But there is a chance that
I can get 'em to talk over Benjamin's anxiety about Sam's Sam. Fact
is, Benjamin is disturbed about the boy's sheep's-eyes. Sam thinks,
you know, that he is in love with Mrs. Richie, and--"

"In love with Mrs. Richie!" William broke in angrily. "The idea of his
bothering Mrs. Richie! it's outrageous. I don't wonder Mr. Wright is
concerned. It's disgraceful. He ought to be thrashed!"

Dr. Lavendar drew a quick breath and let his pipe-hand fall heavily on
the table beside him. "No, William, no; not thrashed. Not thrashed,
William."

"Well, I don't know," the doctor said, doggedly; "it might do him
good; a squirt of a boy!"

Dr. Lavendar sighed. They smoked silently for a while, and, indeed, it
was not until it was almost time to go home that William burst out
with his own wrongs.

"Confound him!" he ended, "what do you make of it, sir? Why, Dr.
Lavendar, he sent his girl out of the room--didn't want her to talk to
me! You'd have thought I was a case of measles. His one idea was to
get rid of me as quickly as possible."

Dr. Lavendar thrust out his lower lip; then he scratched a match on
the bottom of his chair, and held it out to Danny, who came forward
with instant curiosity, sniffed, sneezed, and plainly hurt, retired to
the hearth-rug.

"William, 'a moral, sensible and well-bred man will not affront--'"

"I'm not feeling affronted."

"Oh, aren't you?"

"No," William declared boldly, "not at all; not in the least! He's not
worth it. But I'm all mixed up."

"Daniel," said Dr. Lavendar, "how dare you lie on the rug? Willy, when
I was young--I mean when I was younger--we children were never allowed
to come nearer the fire than the outside edge of the hearth-rug. I
feel wicked now, whenever I come over that edge. But look at that
scoundrel Danny!"

Danny opened one eye and beat his stub of a tail softly on the rug.
William King was silent. Dr. Lavendar began to sing:

  "Queen Victoria's very sick;
  Napoleon's got the measles.
  Why don't you take Sebastopol?
  Pop goes the weasel!"

"Dr. Lavendar, why do you keep trying to change the subject? What do
you think about Mrs. Richie's brother?"

"Well, Willy, my boy, I think he's not given to hospitality."

"Ah, now, no shenanigan!" poor William pleaded. "Do you suppose he's
up to some monkey-shines? Do you suppose I took him unawares, and he
was afraid to entertain me?"

Dr. Lavendar chuckled. "'Fraid he might entertain a Recording Angel
unawares?"

William shook his head. "There was something wrong, or I don't know
human nature."

"Willy, if you do know human nature, you are the only living man who
does. But, perhaps, now, it really wasn't convenient?"

"Convenient!" William burst out. "In Old Chester we don't talk about
_convenience_ when a man knocks at the door at supper-time!"

"But Philadelphia isn't Old Chester," Dr. Lavendar reminded him,
mildly. "When you've seen as much of the world as I have, you'll
realize that. I once was short of my railroad fare in New York. I--
well, a poor creature asked me for some money to buy a coat. It was a
dreadfully cold day. It left me just three dollars short of my fare
home; so I stepped into the Bible House--you know the Bible House?--
and just stated the case to the head clerk, and said I would be
obliged if he would lend me the amount. Willy," Dr. Lavendar got very
red; "I assure you--"

"You don't say so, sir!" said William King respectfully; but he bent
down and pulled Danny's ear.

"Yes," said Dr. Lavendar; "yes, indeed! I will not repeat what he
said; you would be indignant. I just mention the circumstance to show
you how differently people look at things. If any gentleman got into
such a fix in Old Chester, of course he would just speak to Sam
Wright, or you, or me. Or take your own case; if any stranger came on
business at dinner-time, you would say, 'Sit down, sir'!"

William thought of Martha and moved uneasily in his chair.

"But," proceeded Dr. Lavendar, "it is not so everywhere. Convenience
is considered. It isn't hospitable; but you can't say it's wicked?"

"Dr. Lavendar," said William King, "you don't believe that was the
reason."

The old minister sighed. "I'm afraid I don't, my boy; but I thought
maybe you might."

"No, sir! There's something wrong with that fellow. I don't mean to
judge, but somehow, instinctively, I don't trust him."

"Well," said Dr. Lavendar; "I wouldn't judge; but--I'd trust my
instincts."

William grinned; then he sighed. "I won't tell Mrs. Richie about
seeing him. She'd be mortified at his behavior. If she knew as much of
the wickedness of the world as we do, she might even be suspicious!
But, thank God, she's not that kind of a woman. I don't like worldly-
wise ladies."

Dr. Lavendar nodded. "Black sheep can pull the wool over people's eyes
better than white ones can. Do you know, one reason why I hesitated
about letting her have David, was just because I didn't take to her
brother? For that matter, David doesn't take to him either;--and Danny
can't abide him. And William, I have a great respect for the judgment
of my betters in such matters! Yes; I almost kept the little monkey
myself; but I suppose it's better for him to be with a woman?"

"Of course it is," said William King, and Dr. Lavendar's face fell. "I
think she wants to adopt him," William added.

Dr. Lavendar shook his head. "I haven't made up my mind about that
yet. Not only because of the brother;--he comes so rarely he doesn't
count. But I want to make sure she can be trusted to bring a child
up."

"I don't think there could be a better person," the doctor declared,
warmly. "She has a lovely nature."

"A pretty creature," Dr. Lavendar ruminated; "Martha fond of her?"

"Oh, yes indeed," William said enthusiastically;--"at least, I don't
know that I ever happened to hear her speak of it; but of course she
is. Nobody could help it. She is a sweet woman, as you say."

"Well," said Dr. Lavendar, "get Martha to be neighborly with her. She
needs neighboring. And Martha could teach her so many things--she's
such a sensible woman."

"Yes; Martha is sensible," William agreed. "Dr. Lavendar, did you ever
notice how, when she laughs, she has a way of putting her hands on the
top of her head, and sort of drawing them down over her eyes like a
girl? It's as pretty!"

Dr. Lavendar tried to remember. "Why, no," he said; "I don't know that
I ever noticed it. Martha doesn't laugh very often."

"Martha?" William repeated puzzled. "Oh--I was speaking of Mrs.
Richie."

"Oh," said Dr. Lavendar.




CHAPTER XV


Every Sunday morning Mr. Samuel Wright and Mr. Thomas Dilworth--the
one pale and pompous, the other rosy and smiling--took up the
collection in St. Michael's. A mahogany pole with a black velvet pouch
on one end, was thrust solemnly into each pew, then drawn back with
very personal pauses--which were embarrassing if you had forgotten to
put some change into your glove before starting for church. When these
poles had raked every pew, they were carried up the aisle to Dr.
Lavendar, who, taking hold of the purple tassel on the bottom of each
bag, turned the contents into a silver plate. The change came out with
a fine clatter; we children used to keep awake on purpose to hear it.
Once in a while a bill would rustle out with the silver and balance on
the top. of the little heap in such an exciting way that Dr. Lavendar
had to put his hand over it to keep it from blowing off as he carried
the plate to the communion-table--we did not say "altar" in Old
Chester. This done, Mr. Wright and Mr. Dilworth would tiptoe solemnly
back to their respective pews. When the service was over the senior
warden always counted the money. On this summer Sunday morning, when
he went into the vestry for that purpose, he found Dr. Lavendar just
hanging up his black gown behind the door.

"Dr. Lavendar," said the senior warden, "you will, I am sure, be
pleased when I inform you that there is a good collection. Mrs. Richie
put in a five-dollar bill."

"Well," said Dr. Lavendar, "we need it. Your father sent me a check
the other day; but we need some more."

Mr. Wright did not comment upon his father's generosity; instead, he
slid the money from the silver plate on to the table and began to
count it. Dr. Lavendar looked at him over his spectacles; when only
half a dozen coppers were left, he said suddenly:

"Samuel!"

The senior warden looked up; "Yes, sir?"

"Samuel, your father has spoken to me of you."

Mr. Wright looked down; then he slowly picked up the last penny.

"Yes; he spoke of you. Samuel, I have something to say to you of a
very serious nature."

"We have nine dollars and seventy-seven cents," said the senior
warden.

"Your father," said Dr. Lavendar, "has expressed a willingness to see
you."

Mr. Wright put the money into a small canvas bag, and pulling the
drawing-string up, wound it round and round the top; his hands
trembled.

"He has some concern about your Sam--as you have yourself. He is
disturbed because the boy has lost his heart to your tenant, Mrs.
Richie."

"Call it twelve dollars," Samuel said, embarrassed to the point of
munificence. He put the canvas bag in his pocket, and rose. "I'll
deposit this to-morrow, sir," he added, as he had added every Sunday
morning for the last twenty years.

"Samuel," said Dr. Lavendar, sternly, "sit down!"

With involuntary haste the senior warden sat down, but he would not
look at Dr. Lavendar. "It is not my purpose or desire," he said, "to
be disrespectful, but I must request you, sir--"

"To mind my own business? I will, Sam, I will. My business is to
admonish you: _Leave there thy gift before the altar, and go thy
way. First, be reconciled to thy brother, and then come and offer thy
gift._"

Samuel Wright cleared his throat. "I cannot, Dr. Lavendar, discuss
this matter with you. I must be my own judge."

"I have heard that a man might be his own lawyer," said Dr. Lavendar,
smiling; "but you can't be your own judge. The Christian religion
judges you. Samuel, and convicts you. Your father is willing to see
you; he has taken the first step. Think what that means to a man like
your father! Now listen to me; I want to tell you what it's all
about."

"I have no desire, sir, to be informed. I--"

Dr. Lavendar checked him gently: "I am sure you will listen, Samuel,
no matter what your decision may be." Then, very cautiously, he began
about young Sam. "Your father thinks he ought to get away from Old
Chester; he's worried because of Mrs. Richie."

"You know my sentiments, sir, in regard to my son's idiocy."

"Oh, come, come! Falling in love is a harmless amusement," said Dr.
Lavendar; "but your father does take it a good deal to heart. He wants
to get him out of town. However, to send him away without letting him
know why, is difficult; and the last thing would be to let him think
we take his love-making seriously! Therefore your father thinks some
kind of excuse has to be made."

Here Dr. Lavendar became elaborately casual; he had decided that he
must prepare his senior warden for a possible reference to a dangerous
topic. "He mustn't be taken unawares," Dr. Lavendar had told himself.
But he quailed, now that the moment of preparation had come. "Your
father thinks the excuse might be the finding a publisher for some
poetry that Sam has written."

Samuel Wright's large pallid face suddenly twitched; his dull eyes
blazed straight at Dr. Lavendar; "Finding a publisher--for poetry! Dr.
Lavendar, rather than have my son encouraged in making what you call
'poetry,' I'd let him _board_ at Mrs. Richie's!"

"Well," said Dr. Lavendar, easily, "never mind about his poetry; your
father has an idea that life in a small place with only your own
interests, is narrowing; and I guess he's right to some extent. Anyway
this project of a journey isn't a bad one. Sam has never been further
from his mother's apron-string in his life, than Mercer."

"My dear Dr. Lavendar," said Samuel, pompously, "a boy attached to
that string will never have the chance to fall into temptation."

"My dear Samuel," said Dr. Lavendar, "a boy attached to that string
may never have the chance to overcome temptation--which would be
almost as serious. I tell you, Sam, safety that depends on an apron-
string is very unsafe!"

"My son is not to be trusted, sir."

"Samuel!" Dr. Lavendar protested with indignation, "how can he become
worthy of trust without being trusted? You have no more right to shut
up a grown man in Old Chester for fear of temptation, than you would
have to keep a growing boy in his first pair of trousers! Why, Sam,
there isn't any virtue where there has never been any temptation.
Virtue is just temptation, overcome. Hasn't that ever struck you?
However, that's not the point. The point is, that your father has
expressed a willingness to meet you."

Mr. Wright made no answer.

"He will talk over with you this matter of Sam's falling in love.
Whether you agree with him that the boy should go away, is not
important. What is important is his desire to see you."

"I said," Samuel Wright broke out, with a violence that made Dr.
Lavendar start--"I said I would never speak to him again! I took my
oath. I cannot break my oath. 'He that sweareth to his own hurt, and
changeth not--'"

"Yes," said Dr. Lavendar; "'to his own hurt,' but not to somebody
else's hurt. You swore to your father's, to your children's, to the
community's hurt. Change as quickly as you can. Come up the hill with
me to-night."

"I can't," Samuel Wright said hoarsely, and into his hard eyes came
the same look of childish terror that the old minister had seen in
Benjamin Wright's face when he sat in the hot sunshine watching the
canaries.

Then Dr. Lavendar began to plead....

It was a long struggle. Sometimes it really seemed as if, as the
senior warden had said, he "could not" do it; as if it were a physical
impossibility. And there is no doubt that to change a habit of thought
which has endured for thirty-two years involves a physical as well as
a spiritual effort, which may cause absolute anguish. Mr. Wright's
face was white; twice he wiped the perspiration from his forehead:
half a dozen times he said in an agonized tone, "I cannot do it; I
_cannot._"

"Samuel, your father is very old; he is very feeble; but he has had
the strength to take the first step. Haven't you the strength to take
the second? Will you carry your wicked quarrel to his grave? No, Sam,
no! I am sure you won't."...

An hour later, when Dr. Lavendar sat down to a dinner of more than
ordinary Sunday coldness, his old face was twinkling with pleasure.
Samuel had promised to go with him that night to The Top! Perhaps as
the still afternoon softened into dusk his joy began to cast a shadow
of apprehension. If so, he refused to notice it. It was the Lord's
business, and "He moves in a mysterious way," he hummed to himself,
waiting in the warm darkness for Samuel to call for him,--for both the
quailing men had made Dr. Lavendar's presence a condition of the
interview.

At half-past seven Mr. Wright arrived. He was in a shiny box-buggy,
behind a smart sorrel. He was dressed in his black and solemn best,
and he wore his high hat with a flat brim which only came out at
funerals. His dignity was so tremendous that his great bulk seemed to
take even more than its share of room in the buggy. When he spoke, it
was with a laboriousness that crushed the breath out of any possible
answer. As they drove up the hill he cleared his throat every few
minutes. Once he volunteered the statement that he had told Sam not to
stay late at--at--

"Oh," said Dr. Lavendar, "your father will pack him off;--he will
probably take the opportunity to call on Mrs. Richie," he added
smiling. But Sam's father did not smile. And, indeed, Dr. Lavendar's
own face was sober when they turned in between the sagging old gate-
posts at The Top.

When the moment came to get out of the buggy, Samuel looked at his
companion dumbly; a sort of paralysis seemed to hold him in his seat.
When he did move, Dr. Lavendar heard him gasp for breath, and in the
darkness, as he hitched the sorrel to a staple in one of the big
locusts, his face went white. The large manner which had dominated Old
Chester for so many years was shrinking and shrivelling; the whole man
seemed, somehow, smaller....

Benjamin Wright, in his mangy beaver hat, sitting quaking in his
library, heard their steps on the veranda. As soon as supper was over,
he had dismissed his rejoicing grandson, and long before it was
necessary, had bidden Simmons light the lamps; but as night fell, it
occurred to him that darkness would make things easier, and in a
panic, he shuffled about and blew them all out. A little later, he had
a surge of terror; he couldn't bear _that voice_ in the dark!

"You! Simmons!" he called across the hall. "Light the lamps!"

"I done lit 'em, suh--" Simmons expostulated from the pantry, and then
looked blankly at the black doorway of the library. "I 'clare to
goodness, they's gone out," he mumbled to himself; and came in, to
stand on one leg and scratch a match on the sole of his carpet
slipper.

"Don't light all four, you stupid nigger!" the old man screamed at
him.

When Simmons left him he lit a cigar, his fingers trembling very much;
it went out almost at once, and he threw it away and took another.
Just as he heard that ponderous step on the veranda, he took a third--
[Illustration: Samuel slid into a chair near the door.] but only to
throw it, too, still smouldering, into the empty fireplace.

Dr. Lavendar came in first. His face was very grave; he made no
conventional pretence of ease. Behind him, in the doorway, loomed the
other figure. Out in the hall, Simmons, his bent old back flattened
against the wall, his jaw chattering with amazement, stood, clutching
at the door-knob and staring after the visitors.

"Come in!" said, Benjamin Wright. "Hello, Lavendar. Hello--"

Alas! at that moment Samuel's cracked and patched-up self-respect
suddenly crumbled;--his presence of mind deserted him, and scrambling
like an embarrassed boy into a marked discourtesy, he thrust both
hands into his pockets. Instantly he realized his self-betrayal, but
it was too late; his father, after a second's hesitation, occupied
both his hands with the decanter and cigar-box.

"Well; here we are, Benjamin!" said Dr. Lavendar.

"Take a cigar," said the very old man; he held the box out, and it
shook so that the loose cigars jarred within it. Dr. Lavendar helped
himself. "Have one--" Benjamin Wright said, and thrust the box at the
silent standing figure.

"I--do not smoke." Samuel slid into a seat near the door, and
balancing his hat carefully on his knees twisted one leg about the leg
of his chair.

His father bustled around to the other side of the table. "That
doggoned nigger brought up Kentucky instead of Monongahela!" He lifted
the decanter and began to fill the glasses.

"Hold on! hold on! Don't swamp us," said Dr. Lavendar, He leaned over
to rescue his tumbler, and his good-natured scolding made an instant's
break in the intensity.

"Have some?" said Mr. Wright, turning to his son.

"I--do not drink." The banker uncoiled his leg, and put his hat on the
floor.

His father pounded the decanter down on the table. "Simmons!" he
called out; "light the rest of these lamps, you--you freckled nigger!
Gad-a-mercy! niggers have no sense."

Simmons came stumbling in, the whites of his yellow eyes gleaming with
excitement. While he was fumbling over the lamps, his lean brown
fingers all thumbs, Benjamin Wright insisted upon filling Dr.
Lavendar's tumbler with whiskey until it overflowed and had to be
sopped up by the old minister's red bandanna.

As soon as Simmons could get out of the room, Dr. Lavendar settled
himself to the business which had brought them together. He said to
his senior warden, briefly, that his father was concerned about Sam's
attentions to Mrs. Richie; "he thinks it would be an especially good
time to have the boy see a little of the world, if you will consent?
He says it's 'narrowing to live in Old Chester," said Dr. Lavendar,
slyly jocose;--but Samuel refused to smile, and the old minister went
on with determined cheerfulness. "I think, myself, that it would be
good for Sam to travel. You know

  'Home-keeping youths
  Have ever homely wits.'"

"A boy," said the senior warden, and stopped; his voice cracked badly
and he cleared his throat; "a boy--Dr. Lavendar;--is better at home."

The old minister gave him a quick look--his senior warden was
trembling! The cloak of careful pomposity with which for so many years
this poor maimed soul had covered its scars, was dropping away. He was
clutching at it--clearing his throat, swinging his foot, making
elaborate show of ease; but the cloak was slipping and slipping, and
there was the man of fifty-six cringing with the mortification of
youth! It was a sight from which to turn away even the most pitying
eyes. Dr. Lavendar turned his away; when he spoke it was with great
gentleness.

"I don't know that I quite agree with you, Sam, any more than with
your father; but still, if you don't want the boy to go away, can't we
convince your father that he is in no real danger of a broken heart?
If he goes too far, I am sure we can trust Mrs. Richie to snub him
judiciously. You think so, don't you, Samuel?"

"Yes;--Dr. Lavendar."

"Do you hear that, Wright?"

Benjamin Wright took off his hat and banged it down on the table. Then
he threw away another barely lighted cigar, put his hand into the blue
ginger-jar for some orange-skin, and looked closely at his son; his
agitation had quite disappeared. "I hear," he said calmly.

But as he grew calm, Mr. Samuel Wright's embarrassment became more
agonizing, nor was it lessened by the very old man's quite obvious
interest in it; his head, in its brown wig, was inclined a little to
one side, like a canary's, and his black eyes helped out the
likeness--except that there was a carefully restrained gleam of humor
in
them. But he said nothing. To cover up the clamorous silence between
father and son, Dr. Lavendar talked a good deal, but rather at random.
He was confounded by the situation. Had he made a mistake, after all,
in
insisting upon this interview? In his own mind he was asking for
wisdom, but aloud he spoke of the weather. His host gave no
conversational assistance except an occasional monosyllable, and his
senior warden was absolutely dumb. As for the subject which brought
them together, no further reference was made to it.

"Take some more whiskey, Dominic," said Mr. Wright. His eyes were
glittering; it was evident that he did not need any more himself.

Dr. Lavendar said, "No, thank you," and rose. Samuel shot up as though
a spring had been released.

"Going?" said Benjamin Wright; "a short call, considering how long it
is since we've met;--Lavendar."

Samuel cleared his throat. "'Night," he said huskily. Again there was
no hand-shaking; but as they reached the front door, Benjamin Wright
called to Dr. Lavendar, who stepped back into the library. Mr. Wright
had put on his hat, and was chewing orange-skin violently. "It ain't
any use trying to arrange anything with--So I'll try another tack." He
came close to Dr. Lavendar, plucking at the old minister's black
sleeve, his eyes snapping and his jaws working fast; he spoke in a
delighted whisper. "But, Lavendar--"

"Yes."

"He wouldn't take a cigar."

"Samuel never smokes," Dr. Lavendar said shortly.

"And he wouldn't take a drink of whiskey."

"He's a very temperate man."

"Lavendar--"

"Yes?"

"Lavendar--_it was efficacious!_"




CHAPTER XVI


"The play is my life--next to you," Sam Wright's Sam was saying to
his father's tenant. He had left The Top before the two visitors
arrived, and as Dr. Lavendar had foreseen, had gone straight to the
Stuffed Animal House....

Helena was in a low chair, with David nestling sleepily in her arms;
Sam, looking up at her like a young St. John, half sat, half knelt, on
the step at her feet. The day had been hot, and evening had brought no
coolness; under the sentinel locusts on either side of the porch steps
the night was velvet black; but out over the garden there were stars.
A faint stirring of the air tilted the open bowls of the evening-
primroses, spilling a heavy sweetness into the shadows. The house
behind them was dark, for it was too hot for lamps. It was very still
and peaceful and commonplace--a woman, a dozing child, and the soft
night. Young Sam, so sensitive to moods, had fallen at once into the
peace and was content to sit silently at Helena's feet.... Then David
broke in upon the tranquillity by remarking, with a sigh, that he must
go to bed.

"I heard the clock strike," he said sadly.

"I think you are a very good little boy," Helena declared with
admiration.

"Dr. Lavendar said I must," David explained crossly. "You're
misbehavious if you don't do what Dr. Lavendar says. Mrs. Richie, is
heaven up in the sky?"

"Why, I suppose so," she said hesitating.

"What do they stand on?" David inquired. "There isn't any floor," he
insisted doggedly, for she laughed under her breath.

Helena looked over at Sam, who was not in the least amused. Then she
kissed the top of David's head. "I wish I could make his hair curl,"
she said. "I knew a little boy once--" she stopped and sighed.

She took the sleepy child up-stairs herself. Not for many guests would
she have lost the half-hour of putting him to bed. When she came back
her mind was full of him: "He hates to go to bed early," she told Sam,
"but he always walks off at eight, without a word from me, because he
promised Dr. Lavendar he would. I think it is wonderful."

Sam was not interested,

"And he is so funny! He says such unexpected things. He told me
yesterday that Sarah 'slept out loud';--Sarah's room is next to his."

"What did he mean?" Sam said, with the curious literalness of the
poetic temperament, entirely devoid of humor. But he did not wait for
an answer; he locked his hands about his knee, and leaning his head
back, looked up through the leaves at the stars. "How sweet the locust
blossoms are!" he said. One of the yellow-white flakes fell and
touched his cheek.

"They are falling so now," she said, "that the porch has to be swept
twice a day."

He smiled, and brushing his palm along the step, caught a handful of
them, "Every night you sit here all alone; I wish--"

"Oh, I like to be alone," she interrupted. As the balm of David's
presence faded, and the worship in the young man's eyes burned
clearer, that old joke of Lloyd's stabbed her. She wished he would go.
"How does the drama get on?" she asked, with an effort.

Sam frowned and said something of his father's impatience with his
writing. "But I am only happy when I am writing; and when I am with
you. The play is my life,--next to you."

"Please don't!" she said; and then held her breath to listen. "I think
I hear David. Excuse me a minute." She fled into the house and up-
stairs to David's room. "Did you want me, precious?" she said panting,

David opened dreaming eyes and looked at her. He had called out in his
sleep, but was quiet again, and did not need her eager arms, her lips
on his hair, her voice murmuring in his ear. But she could not stop
cuddling the small warm body; she forgot Sam and his play, and even
her own dull ache of discontent,--an ache that was bringing a subtle
change into her face, a faint line on her forehead, and a suggestion
of depth, and even pain, in the pleasant shallows of her leaf-brown
eyes. Perhaps the discontent was mere weariness of the whole
situation; if so, she did not recognize it for what it was. Her
fellow-prisoner, straining furtively against the bond of the flesh
which was all that held him to her, might have enlightened her, but he
took her love so for granted, that he never suspected the discontent.
However, watching David, Helena was herself unconscious of it; when
she was sure the little boy was sound asleep she stole the "forty
kisses," which as yet he had not granted; folded the sheet back lest
he might be too hot; drew a thin blanket over his feet, and then stood
and looked at him. Suddenly, remembering Sam Wright, she turned away;
but hesitated at the door, and came back for one more look. At last,
with a sigh, she went downstairs.

"He loves your rabbits," she told Sam; "he has named them Mr. George
Rufus Smith and Mrs. Minnie Lily Smith,"

"It is all finished," said Sam.

"What is finished?"

"The drama," the young man explained.

"Oh," she said, "do forgive me! My mind is so full of David, I can't
think of anything else."

He smiled at that. "You couldn't do anything I wouldn't forgive,"

"Couldn't I?"

He looked up at her, wistfully. "I love you, you know."

"Oh, please, please--"

"I love you," he said, trembling.

"Sam," she said--and in her distress she put her hand on his
shoulder--"you don't really care for me. I am so much older, and--there
are other reasons. Oh, why did I come here!" she burst out. "You
displease me very much when you talk this way!" She pushed her
chair back, and would have risen but for his detaining hand upon her
arm,

"Will you marry me?"

"No! of course I won't!"

"Why?"

"Because--" she stopped; then, breathlessly; "I only want to be let
alone, I came to Old Chester to be alone. I didn't want to thrust
myself on you.--any of you!"

"You never did," he said wonderingly. "You? Why, there never was
anybody so reserved, so--shy, almost. That's one reason I love you, I
guess," he said boyishly.

"You mustn't love me."

"Will you marry me?" he repeated. "Oh, I know; it is like asking an
angel to come down out of heaven--"

"An angel!"

"Mrs. Richie, isn't it possible for you to care, just a little, and
marry me?"

"No, Sam: indeed it isn't. Please don't think of it any more."

"Is it because you love him, still?"

"Love--_him?_" she breathed.

"He is dead," Sam said; "and I thought from something you once said,
that you didn't really love him. But if you do--"

"My--husband, you mean? No! I don't. I never did. That's not the
reason; oh, why did I come here?" she said in a distressed whisper.

At that he lifted his head. "Don't be unhappy. It doesn't matter about
me." His eyes glittered. "'All is dross that is not Helena'! I shall
love you as long as I live, even if you don't marry me. Perhaps--
perhaps I wouldn't if you did!"

He did not notice her involuntary start of astonishment, he rose, and
lifting his arms to the sky, stood motionless, rapt, as if in wordless
appeal to heaven. Then his arms dropped. "No," he said, speaking with
curious thoughtfulness: "no; you would be human if you could marry a
fool like me." Helena made a protesting gesture, but he went on,
quietly: "Oh, yes; I am a fool. I've been told so all my life; but I
knew it, anyhow. Nobody need have told me. Of course you couldn't
marry me! If you could, you would be like me. And I would not want
that. No; you are God to me. Stay divine."

Helena put her hands over her ears.

"But please, can't you love me? We needn't be married, if you'd rather
not. If you'll just love me a little?"

The innocence of the plea for love without marriage struck her with a
dull humor that faded into annoyance that she should see the humor. It
was an uncomfortable sensation, and she hated discomfort; in her
desire to escape from it, she spoke with quick impatience. "No, Sam,
of course not,--not the way you want me to. Why, you are just a boy,
you know!" she added, lightly.

But Sam threw himself on his knees beside her, and pressed his head
against her skirts. "Oh, are you _sure_, Mrs. Richie? Why, it
seems to me you might--just a little? Can't you? You see, I'm so
lonely," he ended pitifully. His innocent solemn eyes were limpid with
tears, and he looked at her with terrified beseeching, like a lost
child.

The tears that sprang to her eyes were almost motherly; for an
impetuous instant she bent over him, then drew back sharply, and the
tears dried in a hot pang of shame. "No, Sam; I can't. Oh, I am so
sorry! Please forgive me--I ought not to have let you--but I didn't
know--yes; I did know! And I ought to have stopped you. It's my fault.
Oh, how selfish I have been! But it's horrible to have you talk this
way! Won't you please not say anything more?" She was incoherent to
the point of crying.

Sam looked out over the dark garden in silence. "Well," he said
slowly, "if you can't, then I don't want to see you. It would hurt me
too much to see you. I'll go away. I will go on loving you, but I will
go away, so that I needn't see you. Yes; I will leave Old Chester--"

"Oh, I wish you would," she said.

"You don't love me," he repeated, in a sort of hopeless astonishment;
"why, I can't seem to believe it! I thought you must--I love you so.
But no, you don't. Not even just a little. Well--"

And without another word he left her. She could not hear his step on
the locust flowers on the porch.




CHAPTER XVII


_"I wish your confounded Old Chester people would mind their own
affairs! This prying into things that are none of their business
is--"_

Lloyd Pryor stopped; read over what he had written, and ground his
teeth. No; he couldn't send her such a letter. It would call down a
storm of reproach and anger and love. And, after all, it wasn't her
fault; this doctor fellow had said that she did not know of his call.
Still, if she hadn't been friendly with those people, the man wouldn't
have thought of "looking him up"! Then he remembered that he had been
the one to be friendly with the "doctor fellow"; and that made him
angry again. But his next letter was more reasonable, and so more
deadly.

_"You will see that if I had not happened to be at home, it might
have been a very serious matter. I must ask you to consider my
position, and discourage your friends in paying any attention to
me."_

This, too, he tore up, with a smothered word. It wouldn't do; if he
wounded her too much, she was capable of taking the next train--! And
so he wrote, with non-committal brevity:

_"I have to be in Mercer Friday night, and I think I can get down to
Old Chester for a few hours between stages on Saturday. I hope your
cook has recovered, and we can have some dinner? Tell David he can get
his sling ready; and do, for Heaven's sake, fend off visitors!" Then
he added a postscript: _"I want you all to myself."_ He smiled as he
wrote that, but half shook his head. He did not (such was his code)
enjoy being agreeable for a purpose. "But I can't help it," he
thought, frowning; "she is so very difficult, just now."

He was right about the postscript; she read the letter with a curl of
her lip. "'A few hours,'" she said; then--"'I want you all to
myself.'" The delicate color flooded into her face; she crushed the
letter to her lips, her eyes running over with laughing tears.

"Oh, David," she cried,--"let's go and tell Maggie--we must have such
a dinner! He's coming!"

"Who?" said David.

"Why, Mr. Pryor, dear little boy. I want you to love him. Will you
love him?" "I'll see," said David; "is Alice coming?"

Instantly her gayety flagged. "No, dear, no!"

"Well; I guess she's too old to play with;" David consoled himself;
"she's nineteen."

"I must speak to Maggie about the dinner," Helena said dully. But when
she talked to the woman, interest came back again; this time he should
not complain of his food! Maggie smiled indulgently at her excitement,

"My, Mrs. Richie, I don't believe no wife could take as good care of
Mr. Pryor--and you just his sister!"

For the rest of that glowing afternoon, Helena was very happy. She
almost forgot that uncomfortable scene with Sam Wright. She talked
eagerly of Mr. Pryor to David, quite indifferent to the child's lack
of interest. She had many anxious thoughts about what she should wear.
If it was a very hot day, how would her white dimity do? Or the thin
sprigged blue and white? it was so pretty--bunches of blue flowers on
a cross-barred muslin, and made with three flounces and a bertha. She
was wandering about the garden just before tea, trying to decide this
point, when David came to say that a gentleman wanted to see her.
David did not know his name;--he was the old tangled gentleman who
lived in the big house on the hill.

"_Oh!_" Helena said; she caught her lip between her teeth, and
looked at David with frightened eyes. The child was instantly alert.

"I'll run and tell him to go home," he said protectingly.

But she shook her head. "I've got to see him--oh, David!"

The little boy took hold of her skirt, reassuringly; "I'll not let him
hurt you," he said. She hardly noticed that he kept close beside her
all the way to the house.

Mr. Benjamin Wright was sitting on the lowest step of the front porch.
His trembling head was sunk forward on his breast; he did not lift it
at her step, but peered up from under the brim of his dusty beaver
hat; then seeing who it was, he rose, pushing himself up by gripping
at the step behind him and clutching his cane first in one hand, then
in the other. His face like old ivory chiselled into superb lines of
melancholy power, was pallid with fatigue. On his feet, with
exaggerated politeness, he took off his hat with a sweeping bow.

"Madam, your very obedient!"

"Good afternoon," she said breathlessly.

Benjamin Wright, tottering a little, changed his cane from his left to
his right hand, and chewed orange-skin fiercely. "I have called,
madam--"

But she interrupted him. "Won't you come in and sit down, sir? And
pray allow me to get you a glass of wine."

"Come in? No, madam, no. We are simple rustics here in Old Chester; we
must not presume to intrude upon a lady of such fashion as you. I fear
that some of us have already presumed too much"--he paused for breath,
but lifted one veined old hand to check her protest--"too much, I say!
Far too much! I come, madam, to apologize, and to tell you--" Again he
stopped, panting; "to tell you that I insist that you forbid further
intrusion--at least on the part of my grandson."

"But," she said, the color hot in her face, "he does not intrude. I
don't know what you mean. I--"

"Oh, madam, you are too kind, I am sure you know what I mean; it is
your excessive kindness that permits the visits of a foolish boy--
wearying, I am sure, to a lady so accustomed to the world. I will ask
you to forbid those visits. Do you hear me?" he cried shrilly,
pounding the gravel with his cane. "Gad-a-mercy! Do you hear me? You
will forbid his visits!"

"You are not very polite, Mr. Old Gentleman," said David thoughtfully.

"David!" Helena protested.

Benjamin Wright, looking down at the little figure planted in front of
her, seemed to see him for the first time.

"Who is this! Your child?"

"A little boy who is visiting me," she said. "David, run away."

Benjamin Wright made a sneering gesture. "No, no; don't dismiss him on
my account. But that a child should visit you is rather remarkable. I
should think his parents--"

"Hush!" she broke in violently, "Go, David, go!"

As the child went sulkily back to the garden, she turned upon her
visitor. "How dare you! Dr. Lavendar brought him to me; I will not
hear another word! And--and I don't know what you mean, anyhow. You
are a cruel old man; what have I ever done to you? I have never asked
your grandson to come here. I don't want him. I have told him so. And
I never asked you!"

Benjamin Wright cackled. "No; I have not been so far honored. I admit
that. You have kept us all at arm's length,--except my boy." Then,
bending his fierce brows on her, he added, "But what does Lavendar
mean by sending a child--to you? What's he thinking of? Except, of
course, he never had any sense. Old Chester is indeed a foolish place.
Well, madam, you will, I know, _protect yourself,_ by forbidding
my grandson to further inflict his company upon you? And I will remove
my own company, which is doubtless tiresome to you."

He bowed again with contemptuous ceremony, and turned away.

The color had dropped out of Helena's face; she was trembling very
much. With a confused impulse she called to him, and even ran after
him for a few steps down the path. He turned and waited for her. She
came up to him, her breath broken with haste and fear.

"Mr. Wright, you won't--" Her face trembled with dismay. In her fright
she put her hand on his arm and shook it; "you won't--?"

As he looked into her stricken eyes, his own suddenly softened. "Why--
"he said, and paused; then struck the ground with his stick sharply.
"There, there; I understand. You think I'll tell? Gad-a-mercy, madam,
I am a gentleman. And my boy Sam doesn't interest you? Yes, yes; I see
that now. Why, perhaps I've been a trifle harsh? I shall say nothing
to Lavendar, or anybody else."

She put her hands over her face, and he heard a broken sound.
Instantly he reddened to his ears.

"Come! Come! You haven't thought me harsh, have you? Why, you poor-
_bird!_ It was only on my boy's account. You and I understand
each other--I am a man of the world. But with Sam, it's different,
now, isn't it? You see that? He's in love with you, the young fool! A
great nuisance to you, of course. And I thought you might--but I ask
your pardon! I see that you wouldn't think of such a thing. My dear
young lady, I make you my apologies." He put his hand out and patted
her shoulder; "Poor bird!" he said. But she shivered away from his
touch, and after a hesitating moment he went shuffling down the path
by himself.

On the way home he sniffled audibly; and when he reached the entrance
to his own place he stopped, tucked his stick under his arm, and blew
his nose with a sonorous sound. As he stuffed his handkerchief back
into his pocket, he saw his grandson lounging against the gate,
evidently waiting for him... The dilapidation of the Wright place was
especially obvious here at the entrance. The white paint on the two
square wooden columns of the gateway had peeled and flaked, and the
columns themselves had rotted at the base into broken fangs, and hung
loosely upon their inner-posts; one of them sagged sidewise from the
weight of the open gate which had long ago settled down into the
burdocks and wild parsley that bordered the weedy driveway. What with
the canaries, and the cooking, and the slovenly housework, poor old
Simmons had no time for such matters as repairing or weeding.

Sam, leaning on the gate, watched his grandfather's toiling progress
up the hill. His face was dull, and when he spoke all the youth seemed
to have dropped out of his voice.

"Grandfather," he said, when Mr. Wright was within speaking distance,
"I want to go away from Old Chester. Will you give me some money,
sir?"

Benjamin Wright, his feet wide apart, and both hands gripping the top
of his stick, came to a panting standstill and gaped at him. He did
not quite take the boy's words in; then, as he grasped the idea that
Sam was agreeing to the suggestion which he had himself made more than
a month before, he burst out furiously. "Why the devil didn't you say
so, _yesterday?_ Why did you let me--you young jackass!"

Sam looked at him in faint surprise. Then he proceeded to explain
himself: "Of course, father won't give me any money. And I haven't got
any myself--except about twelve dollars. And you were kind enough,
sir, to say that you would help me to go and see if I could get a
publisher for the drama. I would like to go to-morrow, if you please."

"Go?" said Benjamin Wright, scowling and chewing orange-skin rapidly,
"the sooner the better! I'm glad to get rid of you. But, confound you!
why didn't you tell me so yesterday? Then I needn't have--Well, how
much money do you want? Have you told your--your mother that you are
going? Come on up to the house, and I'll give you a check. But why
didn't you make up your mind to this yesterday?" Snarling and
snapping, and then falling into silence, he began to trudge up the
driveway to his old house.

Sam said briefly that he didn't know how much money he wanted, and
that he had not as yet told his family of his purpose. "I'll tell
mother to-night," he said. Then he, too, was silent, his young step
falling in with his grandfather's shuffling gait.

When Mr. Wright left her, Helena stood staring after him, sobbing
under her breath. She was terrified, but almost instantly she began to
be angry....

That old man, creeping away along the road, had told her that he would
not betray her; but his knowledge was a menace, and his surprise that
she should have David, an insult! Of course, her way of living was
considered "wrong" by people who cannot understand such situations--
old-fashioned, narrow-minded people. But the idea of any harm coming
to David by it was ridiculous! As for Sam Wright, all that sort of
thing was impossible, because it was repugnant. No married woman,
"respectable," as such women call themselves, could have found the
boy's love-making more repugnant than she did. And certainly her
conduct in Old Chester was absolutely irreproachable: she went to
church fairly often; she gave liberally to all the good causes of the
village; she was kind to her servants, and courteous to these stupid
Old Chester people. And yet, simply because she had been forced by
Frederick's cruelty into a temporary unconventionality, this dingy,
grimy old man despised her! "He looked at me as if I were--I don't
know what!"

Anger swept the color up into her face, her hands clenched, and she
ground her heel down into the path as if she were grinding the
insolent smile from his cruel old face. Horrible old man! Dirty,
tremulous; with mumbling jaws chewing constantly; with untidy white
hairs pricking out from under his brown wig; with shaking, shrivelled
hands and blackened nails; this old man had fixed his melancholy eyes
upon her with an amused leer. He pretended, if you please! to think
that she was unworthy of his precious grandson's company--unworthy of
David's little handclasp. She would leave this impudent Old Chester!
She would tell Lloyd so, as soon as he came. She would not endure the
insults of these narrow-minded fools.

"Hideous! Hideous old wretch!" she said aloud furiously, between shut
teeth. "How dared he look at me like that, as if I were--Beast! I
hate--I hate--I _hate_ him." Her anger was so uncontrollable that
for a moment she could not breathe. It was like a whirlwind, wrenching
and tearing her from the soil of contentment into which for so many
years her vanity and selfishness had struck their roots.

  _"But the Lord was not in the wind."_




CHAPTER XVIII


When Helena went back to the house, her face was red, and her whole
body tingling; every now and then her breath came in a gasp of rage.
At that moment she believed that she hated everybody in the world--the
cruel, foolish, arrogant world!--even the thought of David brought no
softening. And indeed, when that first fury had subsided, she still
did not want to see the little boy; that destroying wind of anger had
beaten her complacency to the dust, and she could not with dignity
meet the child's candid eyes. It was not until the next day that she
could find any pleasure in him, or even in the prospect of Lloyd's
visit; and when these interests began to revive, sudden gusts of rage
would tear her, and she would fall into abrupt reveries, declaring to
herself that she would tell Lloyd how she had been insulted! But she
reminded herself that she must choose just the right moment to enlist
his sympathy for the affront; she must decide with just what caress
she would tell him that she meant to leave Old Chester, and come, with
David, to live in Philadelphia. (Oh, would Frederick _ever_ die?)...
But, little by little, she put the miserable matter behind her, and
filled the days before Lloyd's arrival with plans for the few golden
hours that they were to be together, when he was to have her "all to
himself." But, alas, the plans were all disarranged by David.

Now Saturday, when you come to think of it, is always a day of joy--
even if there must be a visitor. To begin with, there is no school, so
you have plenty of time to attend to many important affairs connected
with playthings. Then, the gravel paths must be raked and the garden
made tidy for Sunday, and so there is brush and refuse to be burned;
and that means baking potatoes in the ashes, and (as you will
remember), unless you stand, coughing, in the smoke to watch them, the
potatoes are so apt to burn. Also, the phaeton is washed with peculiar
care to make it fine for church; the wheels must be jacked up, one
after the other, and spun round and round; then, if you go about it
the right way, you can induce George to let you take the big, gritty
sponge out of the black water of the stable bucket, and after
squeezing it hard in your two hands, you may wipe down the spokes of
one wheel. Besides these things, there are always the rabbits. Right
after breakfast, David had run joyously out to see Mr. and Mrs. Smith,
but while he poked lettuce leaves between the bars of their hutch, the
thought struck him that this was the moment to demonstrate that
interesting fact in natural history, so well known to those of your
friends who happen to be stablemen, but doubted by Dr. Lavendar,
namely, that a hair from the pony's tail will, if soaked in water,
turn into a snake. David shuddered at the word, but ran to the stable
and carefully pulled two hairs from the pony's silvery-gray tail. The
operation was borne with most obliging patience, but when he stooped
to pick up another beautiful long hair from the straw--for when you
are making snakes you might as well make plenty, alas! the pony was so
absent-minded as to step back--and down came the iron-shod hoof on the
small, eager hand!

David's shriek and George's outcry brought the feminine household
running and exclaiming, and at the sight of the bruised hand, with one
hanging, helpless finger, Helena gathered the quivering little body
into her arms, and forgot everything but the child's pain. George was
rushed off for William King, and Mrs. Richie and the two women hung
over the boy with tears and tender words and entreaties "not to cry"!
David, in point of fact, stopped crying long before they did; but, of
course, he cried again, poor little monkey! during the setting of the
tiny bone, though William King was as gentle and determined as was
necessary, and David, sitting in Helena's lap, responded to the demand
for courage in quite a remarkable way. Indeed, the doctor noticed that
Mrs. Richie quivered more than the child did. It was nearly eleven
before it was all over, and William went off, smiling at Helena's
anxiety, for she accompanied him to the gate, begging for directions
for impossible emergencies. When he had driven away, she flew back to
the house; but at the door of David's room looked at her watch, and
exclaimed. Lloyd was due in half an hour! What should she do?

"Dear-precious," she said, kneeling down beside the little boy, "Sarah
shall come and sit with you while Mr. Pryor is here; you won't mind if
I am not with you?"

David, who had begun to whimper again, was too interested in himself
to mind in the least. Even when she said, distractedly, "Oh, there's
the stage!" his unhappiness was not perceptibly increased. Helena,
calling Sarah to come and sit with the invalid, ran down-stairs to
meet her guest. There had been no time to make herself charming; her
face was marked by tears, and her dress tumbled by David's little
wincing body. Before she could reach the gate, Lloyd Pryor had opened
it, and, unwelcomed, was coming up the path. His surprised glance
brought her tumultuous and apologetic explanation.

"Oh, I'm sorry!" he said kindly; "I must console him with a new
dollar; don't you think a dollar will be healing?"

She laughed and possessed herself of his hand.

"You run a sort of hospital, Nelly, don't you? I must be a Jonah; it
was your cook the last time. How is she? I trust we are to have enough
food to sustain life?"

"I meant to have such a fine dinner," she said, "but we've all been so
distracted about David, I'm afraid things won't be as extraordinary as
I planned. However, it will 'sustain life'!--Though you could go to
Dr. King's again," she ended gayly.

The instant irritation in his face sobered her. She began, carefully,
to talk of this or that: his journey, the Mercer business, his
health--anything to make him smile again. Plainly, it was not the
moment to speak of Mr. Benjamin Wright and her purpose of leaving Old
Chester.

"Now I must run up-stairs just one minute, and see David," she said in
the middle of a sentence. Her minute lengthened to ten, but when she
came back, explaining that she had stopped to wash David's face--"it
was all stained by tears"--he did not seem impatient.

"Your own would be improved by soap and water, my dear," he said with
an amused look. "No! no--don't go now; I want to talk to you, and I
haven't much time."

She knew him too well to insist; instead, she burst into what gayety
she could summon, for that was how he liked her. But back in her mind
there was a growing tremor of apprehension:--there was something
wrong; she could not tell what it was, but she felt it. She said to
herself that she would not speak of Mr. Benjamin Wright until after
dinner.

Little by little, however, her uneasiness subsided. It became evident
that the excitement of the morning had not been too much for Maggie;
things were very good, and Lloyd Pryor was very appreciative, and
Helena's charm more than once touched him to a caressing glance and a
soft word. But as they got up from the table he glanced at his watch,
and she winced; then smiled, quickly. She brought him his cigar and
struck a light; and he, looking at her with handsome, lazy eyes,
caught the hand which held the flaming match, and lit his cigar in
slow puffs.

"Now I must go and give a look at David," she said.

"Look here, Nelly," he protested, "aren't you rather overdoing this
adopted-mother business?"

She found the child rather flushed and in an uneasy doze. Instantly
she was anxious. "Don't leave him, Sarah," she said. "I'll have Maggie
bring your dinner up to you. Oh, I _wish_ I didn't have to go
downstairs!"

"I'm afraid he is worse," she told Lloyd Pryor with a worried frown.

"Well, don't look as if it were an affair of nations," he said
carelessly, and drew her down on the sofa beside him. He was so
gracious to her, that she forgot David; but she quivered for fear the
graciousness should cease. She was like a thirsty creature, drinking
with eager haste, lest some terror should drive her back into the
desert. But Lloyd Pryor continued to be gracious; he talked gayly of
this or that; he told her one or two stories that had been told him in
a directors' meeting or on a journey, and he roared with appreciation
of their peculiar humor. She flushed; but she made herself laugh. Then
she began tentatively to say something of Old Chester; and--and what
did he think? "That old man, who lives up on the hill, called, and--"

But he interrupted her. "You are very beguiling, Nelly, but I am
afraid I must be thinking of the stage--it is after three. Before I go
I just want to say--" then he broke off. "Come in! Well? What is it?"
he demanded impatiently.

"Please, ma'am," said Sarah, standing in the doorway, her face
puckered almost to tears, "David's woke up, and he's crying, and I
can't do nothing with him. He wants you, ma'am."

"Oh, poor darling! Tell him I'll come right up," Mrs. Richie said,
rising in quick distress.

"Nonsense!" said Lloyd Pryor, sharply. "Sarah, tell the boy to behave
himself. Mrs. Richie can't come now."

Sarah hurried up-stairs, but Helena stood in painful indecision. "Oh,
Lloyd, I _must_ go! I'll just sit with him a minute!"

"You'll just sit with me a minute," he said calmly. "Be sensible,
Helena. I want to speak to you about something."

But she did not hear him; she was listening for David's voice. A
little whimpering cry reached her, and the tears sprung to her eyes.
"Lloyd! I must. He is crying."

"Let him cry."

"He's takin' on so, please come up, ma'am," came Sarah's entreating
voice from over the banisters in the upper hall.

"Oh, Lloyd, I must!" She turned; but he, springing up, caught her
wrist and pulled her to him.

"Don't be a fool."

"Let me go! Oh, how cruel you are!" She tried to wrench her wrist from
his grasp. "I hate you!"

"Hate me, do you?" He laughed, and catching her in his arms, kissed
her again and again. Then he put his hands in his pockets and stepped
back, leaving her free. "Will you go?"

She stood, vibrating between surprised affection and anguished longing
for the child. "Lloyd!" she said faintly; she put her hands over her
face, and came towards him slowly, shivering a little, and murmuring
"_Lloyd!_" Then, with a sudden gasp, she turned and fled up-stairs.
"David--I am coming--"

Lloyd Pryor stood dumfounded; in his astonishment he almost laughed.
But at that instant he heard the crunch of wheels drawing up at the
gate. "The stage!" he said to himself, and called out, angrily,
"Helena!"

But it was not the stage; it was William King's shabby old buggy
standing in the shadow of the big locust by the roadside; and there
was the doctor himself coming up the path.

Lloyd Pryor swore under his breath.

The front door was open to the hot June afternoon, and unannounced the
doctor walked into the hall. As he took off his hat, he glanced into
the parlor, and for a second of consternation stood staring with angry
eyes. Then he nodded stiffly. "I will be obliged if you will let Mrs.
Richie know I am here."

"She is with that boy," said Lloyd Pryor. He made no motion of
civility; he stood where Helena had left him, his hands still in his
pockets. "Will you be so good as to tell her to come down here to me?
The stage is due, and I must see her before I go."

William King, red and stolid, nodded again, and went up-stairs without
another look into the parlor.

While he waited Lloyd Pryor's anger slowly rose. The presence of the
doctor froze the tenderness that, for an idle moment, her face and
voice and touch had awakened. The annoyance, the embarrassment, the
danger of that call, returned in a gust of remembrance. When she came
down-stairs, full of eager excuses, the touch of his rage seared her
like a flame.

"If you will kindly take five minutes from that squalling brat--"

"Lloyd, he was in pain. I had to go to him. The instant the doctor
came, I left him. I--"

"Listen to me, please. I have only a minute. Helena, this friend of
yours, this Dr. King, saw fit to pry into my affairs. He came to
Philadelphia to look me up--" "_What!_"

"He came to my house"--he looked at her keenly through his curling
eyelashes--"to my house! Do you understand what that means?"

In her dismay she sat down with a sort of gasp; and looking up at him,
stammered, "But why? Why?"

"Why? Because he is a prying suspicious jackass of a country doctor!
He came at exactly six o'clock. it was perfectly evident that he meant
to give me the pleasure of his company at dinner."

At that she sprang to her feet, her impetuous hands upon his arm.
"Then he was not--suspicious! Don't you see? He was only friendly!"
She trembled with the reaction of that instant of dismay. "He was not
suspicious, or he wouldn't have been--been willing--" Her voice
trailed into shamed silence.

Lloyd Pryor pushed her hand away, impatiently. "I'm not anxious for
his friendship or even his acquaintance. You will please consider what
would have happened if I had not come home just as he arrived!" He
paused, his voice hardening: "My daughter saw him."

Helena stepped back, wincing and silent.

"You will be so good as to consider the result of such tomfoolery--to
me."

"And what about me?" she said. "Your 'daughter'--I suppose you mean
Alice--is not the only person in the world!"

But Lloyd Pryor, having dealt his blow, was gracious again. "My dear,
you needn't begin recriminations. Of course, I speak on your account
as much as on my own. It would have been--well, awkward, all round.
You must see that it does not occur again. You will not get on terms
with these people that will encourage them to look me up. You
understand?"

She looked at him, terror-stricken. In all their squabbles and
differences--and there had been many in the last few years--he had
never spoken in this extraordinary tone. It was not anger, it was not
the courteous brutality with which she was more or less familiar; it
was superiority. The color swept into her face; even her throat
reddened. She said stammering, "I don't know why you speak--in--in
this tone--"

"I am not going to speak any more in any tone," he said lightly;
"there's the stage! Good-by, my dear. I trust your boy may recover
rapidly. Tell him I was prepared for his sling and the 'smooth stone
out of the brook'! Sorry I couldn't have seen more of you." As he
spoke he went into the hall; she followed him without a word. He
picked up his hat, and then, turning, tipped her chin back and kissed
her. She made no response.

When he had gone, she went into the parlor and Shut the door.




CHAPTER XIX


David was quite a personage in Old Chester for a few days. Mrs.
Richie was his slave, and hardly left him day or night; Dr. King came
to see him five times in one week; Mrs. Barkley sent him some wine
jelly in a sheaf-of-wheat mould; Dr. Lavendar climbed the hill on two
afternoons, to play dominoes with him, though, as it happened, Mrs.
Richie was not present either day to watch the game. The first time
she had just gone to lie down, Sarah said; the second time she had
that moment started out to walk--"Why, my goodness!" said Sarah, "she
must 'a' _just_ gone! She was here not a minute ago. I should 'a'
thought she'd 'a' seen you tyin' up at the gate?"

"Well, evidently she didn't," Dr. Lavendar said, "or she would have
waited. Tell her I'm sorry to miss her, Sarah." Then, eagerly, he went
on up-stairs to David.

William King, too, was scarcely more fortunate; he only found her at
home once, so at the end of the week he was unable to tell her that
David was improving. It was, of course, necessary that she should be
told this; so that was why he and Jinny continued to come up the hill
for another week. At any rate that was the explanation he gave his
Martha. "I must let her know just when David can go back to school,"
he said. And Martha, with a tightening lip remarked that she should
have supposed a woman of Mrs. Richie's years could use her own
judgment in such a matter.

William's explanation to Dr. Lavendar was somewhat fuller: "I make a
point of calling, on the plea of seeing David, but it's really to see
her. She's so high strung, that this little accident of his has
completely upset her. I notice that she sort of keeps out of the way
of people. I'm pretty sure that yesterday she saw me coming and
slipped out into the garden to avoid me--think of that! Nervousness;
pure nervousness. But I have a plan to brighten her up a little--a
surprise-party. What do you say?"

Dr. Lavendar looked doubtful. "William," he said, "isn't life
surprising enough? Now, here's Sam Wright's Sam's performance."

Dr. Lavendar looked care-worn, and with reason. Sam Wright's Sam had
indeed provided a surprise for Old Chester. He had quietly announced
that he was going to leave town.

"Going away!" repeated the senior warden. "What are you talking
about?"

Sam said briefly that he wanted to try to get a drama he had written,
published.

"You are out of your senses!" his father said; "I forbid it, sir. Do
you hear me?"

Sam looked out of the window. "I shall go, I think, to-morrow," he
said thoughtfully.

Samuel Wright stared at his wife in dumfounded silence. When he got
his breath, he said in awful tones, "Eliza, he defies me! A child of
mine, and lost to all sense of duty! I cannot understand it;--unless
such things have happened in _your_ family?" he ended with sudden
suspicion,

"Never!" protested the poor mother; "but Samuel, my dear--Sammy, my
darling--"

The senior warden raised a majestic hand. "Silence, if you please,
Eliza." Then he thrust his right hand into his bosom, rested his left
fist on the marble-topped centre-table, and advanced one foot.
Standing thus, he began to tell his son what he thought of him, and as
he proceeded his anger mounted, he forgot his periods and his
attitudes, and his voice grew shrill and mean. But, alas, he could not
tell the boy all that he thought; he could not tell him of his high
ambitions for him, of his pitiful desire for his love, of his
anguished fear lest he might be unhappy, or foolish, or bad. These
thoughts the senior warden had never known how to speak. Instead, he
detailed his grievances and his disappointments; he told Sam with
ruthless candor what the world called his conduct: dishonest, idiotic,
ungrateful. He had a terrifying string of adjectives, and through them
all the boy looked out of the window. Once, at a particularly
impassioned period, he glanced at his father with interest; that
phrase would be fine in a play, he reflected. Then he looked out of
the window again.

"And now," Mr. Wright ended sonorously, "what reply have you to make,
sir?"

Sam looked confused. "I beg your pardon, father? I did not hear what
you were saying."

Samuel Wright stared at him, speechless.

As for the boy, he said calmly, "Good night, father," and went up-
stairs to his own room where he began his packing. The next morning he
had gone.

"Where?" asked Dr. Lavendar, when the angry father brought him the
news. "I do not know," said the senior warden, "and I do not--"

"Yes, you do," said Dr. Lavendar; "but that's not the point. The point
is that it doesn't really matter, except for our comfort, whether we
know or not. Sam is a man, and our protection is an impertinence. He's
taking a dive on his own account. And as I look at it, he has a right
to. But he'll come up for breath, and then we'll get some information.
And he'll get some sense."

But of course the Wright family was in a most distressed state. The
mother was overwhelmed with anxious grief; the father was consumed
with mortification and blazing with anger.

"He didn't take his second-weight flannels," moaned Mrs. Wright; "he
will catch cold. Oh, where is he? And nobody knows how to cook his
hominy for him but our Betsy. Oh, my boy!"

"Good riddance," said Sam senior between his teeth; "ungrateful
puppy!"

Dr. Lavendar had his hands full. To reassure the mother, and tell her
that the weather was so warm that Sam couldn't use the second-weight
flannels if he had them, and that when he came back Betsy's hominy
would seem better than ever--"Old Chester food will taste mighty
good, after a few husks," said Dr. Lavendar, cheerfully--to tell Sam
senior that a grateful puppy would be an abnormal monster, and to
refrain from telling him that whatever a father sows he is pretty sure
to reap--took time and strength. So Dr. Lavendar did not enter very
heartily into William King's plans for a surprise-party. However, he
did promise to come, if the doctor succeeded in getting Old Chester
together.

Meantime he and Danny and Goliath went up to The Top to tell Benjamin
Wright about Sam's Sam. The grandfather displayed no surprise.

"I knew he was going to clear out," he said; he was poking about among
his canaries when Dr. Lavendar came in, and he stopped and sat down,
panting. "These fowls wear me out," he complained. "Whiskey? No? Dear
me! Your senior warden's got you to sign the pledge, I suppose? Well,
I will; to drink the cub's health. He'll amount to something yet, if
he doesn't eat his fatted calf too soon. Fatted calf is very bad for
the digestion."

"Wright, I don't suppose you need to be told that you behaved
abominably Sunday night? Do you know where Sam is?"

"I don't; and I don't want to. Behaved abominably? He wouldn't shake
hands with me! Sam told me he was going, and I gave him some money--
well! why do you look at me like that? Gad-a-mercy, ain't he my
grandson? Besides, since our love-feast, ain't it my duty to help his
father along? I've had a change of heart," he said, grinning; "where's
your joy over the one sinner that repenteth? I'm helping young Sam, so
that old Sam may get some sense. Lavendar, the man who has not learned
what a damned fool he is, hasn't learned anything. And if I mistake
not, the boy will teach my very respectable son, who won't smoke and
won't drink, that interesting fact. As for the boy, he will come back
a man, sir. A man! Anyway, I've done my part. I offered him money and
advice--like the two women grinding at the mill, one was taken and the
other was left. Yes; I've done my part. I've evened things up. I gave
him his first tobie, and his first drink, and now I've given him a
chance to see the world--which your senior warden once said was a
necessary experience for a young man. I've evened things up!" He
thrust a trembling hand down into the blue ginger-jar for some orange-
skin. "He said he'd pay the money back; I said, 'Go to thunder!' As if
I cared about the money. I've got him out of Old Chester; that's all I
care about."

"Well," said Dr. Lavendar, "I hope you haven't got him merely out of
the frying-pan."

"So you think there is no fire in Old Chester? She's a pretty creetur,
Lavendar, ain't she? Poor thing!"

Dr. Lavendar did not follow the connection of ideas in the older man's
mind, but he did say to himself, as he and Goliath went away, that it
was queer how possessed Benjamin Wright was that Sam's love-making was
dangerous. Then he sighed, and his face fell into troubled lines. For
all his brave words, he wished he knew where the boy was; and though
he was already late for dinner, he drew up at William King's door to
ask the doctor if he had any new ideas on the subject.

But Willy was not at home. Martha was sitting under the grape-vine
trellis at the back door, topping and tailing gooseberries. From the
kitchen behind her came the pleasant smell of preserving. She had a
big yellow earthenware bowl in her lap, and excused herself for not
rising when Dr. Lavendar came round the corner of the house to find
her.

"_I_ am a housekeeper, Dr. Lavendar. William thinks it's pretty
not to understand housekeeping; but I expect if he didn't have
preserves for his supper, he wouldn't think it was so pretty. No; he
isn't at home, sir. He's gone out--with the thermometer at ninety--to
see about that party he is getting up for Mrs., Richie. So long as he
has time to spare from his patients, I should think he would like to
take up my spare-room carpet for me. But, oh dear, no. He has to see
about parties!"

"William is always doing friendly things," said Dr. Lavendar, sitting
down on the door-step and helping himself to a gooseberry from
Martha's bowl. "You are going to make some fool for the supper, of
course?" He took off his hat, and wiped his forehead with his big red
handkerchief.

"Oh, of course. I'm very tired, and I have my housekeeping to attend
to; but I can make gooseberry fool. That's what I'm for."

"When is this party?" said Dr. Lavendar. "I declare, I've been so
worried about Sam's Sam, I've forgotten."

"It's next week; Thursday. Yes; she can send that boy to his death,
maybe; but we must have parties to cheer her up."

"Oh, come now," Dr. Lavendar remonstrated; "I don't believe a glimpse
of the world will kill him. And nobody can blame Mrs. Richie for his
foolishness. I suppose we are all going?"

"Everybody," Martha King said scornfully; "even Samuel Wright. He told
his wife that he wouldn't have any nonsense about Sam, and she'd got
to go. I think it's positively cruel; because of course everybody
knows that the boy was in love with this housekeeper that doesn't know
how to make soap!" Martha shook her bowl sharply, and the toppling
green pyramid crumbled. Dr. Lavendar looked at her over his
spectacles; instantly her face reddened, and she tossed her head. "Of
course, you understand that I haven't the slightest personal feeling
about it. That's one thing about me, Dr. Lavendar, I may not be
perfect, but nobody despises anything like--that, more than I do. I
merely regret William's judgment."

"Regret William's judgment! Why, think of the judgment he displayed in
choosing a wife," said Dr. Lavendar. But when he climbed into his old
buggy he had the grace to be ashamed of himself; he admitted as much
to Danny. "For she's a sensible woman, Daniel, and, at bottom, kind."
Danny yawned, and Dr. Lavendar added, "Poor Willy!"

Mrs. Richie's first hint of Dr. King's proposed festivity came a week
later from David, who happened to be at home to dinner, and who saw
fit to mention that Lydia Wright wasn't to be allowed to come up with
her father and mother.

"Come up where?" Mrs. Richie said, idly. She was leaning forward, her
elbows on the table, watching the child eat. When he said, "To your
party to-night," she sat up in astonished dismay.

"My _what?_ David! Tell me--exactly. Who is coming? Oh, dear!"
she ended, tears of distress standing in her eyes.

David continued to eat his rice pudding. "Can I sit up till nine?"

Mrs. Richie pushed her chair back from the table, and caught her lower
lip between her teeth. What should she do? But even as she asked
herself the question, Dr. King stood, smiling, in the French window
that opened on to the lawn.

"May I come in?" he said.

The fact was, a misgiving had risen in William's mind; perhaps a
complete surprise would not be pleasant. Perhaps she would rather have
an idea of what was going to happen. Perhaps she might want to dress
up, or something. And so he dropped in to give a hint: "Half a dozen
of us are coming in tonight to say how-do-you-do," he confessed,
("Whew! she doesn't need to dress up," he commented inwardly.) The red
rose in her hair and her white cross-barred muslin with elbow sleeves
seemed very elegant to William. He was so lost in admiration of her
toilet, that her start of angry astonishment escaped him.

"Dr. King," said David, scraping up the sugar from his saucer, "is God
good because He likes to be, or because He has to be?"

"David," said William King, "you will be the death of me!"

"Because, if He likes to be," David murmured, "I don't see why He gets
praised; and if He has to be, why--"

"Dr. King," said Helena breathlessly, "I'm afraid--really, I'm not
prepared for company; and--"

"Oh," said William, cheerfully, "don't bother about that. Mrs. King is
going to bring up one or two little things, and I believe Mrs. Barkley
has some ideas on the subject. Well, I must be going along. I hope you
won't be sorry to see us? The fact is, you are too lonely up here with
only David to keep you busy, though I must say, if he fires off
questions like this one, I should think you would be pretty well
occupied!"

When he had gone, Helena Richie sat looking blankly at David. "What on
earth shall I do!" she said aloud.

"Did God make Sarah?" David demanded.

"Yes, dear, yes!"

"Did He make me, and the Queen, and my rabbits?"

"Why, of course. Oh, David, you do ask so many questions!"

"Everything has to be made," he ruminated.

She agreed, absently. David put his spoon down, deeply interested.

"Who made God?--another god, higher up?"

"I think," she said, "that I'll send word I have a headache!"

David sighed, and gave up theological research, "Dr. King didn't look
at my scar, but I made Theophilus Bell pay me a penny to show it to
him. Mrs. Richie, when I am a man, I'm _never_ going to wash behind my
ears. I tell Sarah so every morning, I'm going to see my rabbits, now.
Good-by."

He slipped down from his chair and left her to her perplexity--as if
she had not perplexity enough without this! For the last few days she
had been worried almost to death about Mr. Benjamin Wright. She had
not written to Lloyd yet of that terrible interview in the garden
which would drive her from Old Chester; she had been afraid to. She
felt instinctively that his mood was not hospitable to any plan that
would bring her to live in the East. He would be less hospitable if
she came because she had been found out in Old Chester. But her
timidity about writing to him was a curious alarm to her; it was a
confession of something she would not admit even long enough to deny
it. Nevertheless, she did not write. "I will to-morrow," she assured
herself each day, But now, on top of her worry of indecision and
unacknowledged fear, came this new dismay--a party! How furious Lloyd
would be if he heard of it; well, he must not hear of it. But what
could she do? If she put it off with a flimsy excuse, it would only
defer the descent upon her. How helpless she was! They would come,
these people, they would be friendly; she could not escape them.

"Oh, I must stop this kind of thing," she said to herself,
desperately.




CHAPTER XX


With the exception of Benjamin Wright, all Old Chester lent itself to
William King's project with very good grace. Mr. Wright said, gruffly,
that a man with one foot in the grave couldn't dance a jig, so he
preferred to stay at home. But the rest of Old Chester said that
although she was so quiet and kept herself to herself so much, Mrs.
Richie was a ladylike person; a little shy, perhaps--or perhaps only
properly hesitant to push her way into society; at any rate it was but
kind to show her some attention.

"Her modesty does her credit," Mrs. Barkley said, "but it will be
gratifying to her to be noticed. I'll come, William, and bring a cake.
And Maria Welwood shall tell Ezra to take three bottles of Catawba."

A little before eight, the company began to assemble, full of such
cordial courtesy that Mrs. Richie's shrinking and awkward coldness
only incited them to heartier friendliness. Dr. King, master of
ceremonies, was ably assisted by his Martha. Mrs. King may have been,
as she told all the guests, very tired, but she could be depended upon
to be efficient. It was she who had engaged Uncle Davy and his fiddle;
she who put the cakes and wine and fruit upon the dining-room table,
already somewhat meagerly arranged by Helena's reluctant hands; she
who bustled about to find card-tables, and induced Tom Dilworth to
sing;

  "_Thou--Thou reignest in this bosom!--_"

and got Mr. Ezra Barkley to ask statistical conundrums.

"It's well there is somebody to attend to things," she said in a dry
aside to William. "Mrs. Richie just walks around as if she didn't
belong here. And she lets that child sit up until this hour! I can't
understand how a sensible woman can deliberately spoil a child.--I'd
like to know what that perfume is that she uses," she ended frowning.

It was after supper, while the husband and wife, still oppressed with
their responsibilities, were standing in the doorway looking in upon
the cheerful party now in full enjoyment of its own hospitality, that
Eddy Minns came up behind them and touched William King's arm.

"Dr. King," he said breathlessly, "a telegram, sir. For Mrs. Richie.
And mother said it was bad news!"

"Oh, William!" said Martha; "bad news! Do you know what it is, Eddy?"

"Somebody is dead," the boy said, important and solemn.

"Her brother?" William King asked in dismay.

"Well, not the brother that comes here; his name is Lloyd, mother
said. This is somebody whose name begins with 'F.' Perhaps another
brother. Mother showed the despatch to me; it just said: 'F. died
suddenly yesterday in Paris.' It was signed 'S. R.'"

"It isn't from Pryor, then," William commented.

"Oh, William," Martha whispered, "what shall we do? Must you give it
to her _now?_--oh, William!"

Dr. King stood staring at the orange-colored envelope in silence.

"Shall I call Dr. Lavendar?" Martha asked breathlessly.

"Wait," her husband said; "let me think: it may not be anybody very
near and dear; but whether it is or not, there is nothing she can do
about it to-night. The telegraph-office is closed. I don't see why her
evening need be spoiled. No; I won't give it to her now. When the
people go--"

"Oh, dear! Dr. Lavendar says we must end up with a reel. But I'll get
them off as soon as I can," Martha declared, in her capable voice,
"and then I'll break it to her."

"I will tell her," the doctor said. He put the envelope in his pocket
with a troubled frown.

"If she is in affliction, a woman will be more comfort to her than a
man," Martha instructed him. "Look at her now, poor thing! She little
thinks--No indeed; I must stay with her. I'm very tired, and she's not
very friendly, but I won't shirk my duty on that account. That's one
thing about me: I may not be perfect, but I don't let personal
feelings interfere with duty."

"It isn't your duty," William said impatiently; "you'd better arrange
about the reel." And with that he left her. But he was so uneasy at
withholding the telegram that he forgot to choose a partner, and let
Martha push him into place opposite Miss Maggie Jay, who was so stout
that when the two large bodies went jigging down the lane, the
clasping hands arched above their heads had to break apart to give
them room.

"She may think I ought to have told her at once," William was saying
to himself, watching Mrs. Richie with such furtive attention that he
forgot to turn his partner, until Martha's sharp reminder set him
shuffling his feet, and grinning in a sickly way at panting Miss
Maggie.... "Who is 'F.'? Will 'F.'s death be a great grief? Will she
suffer?" William King's kind heart began to beat thickly in his
throat. If she should cry! He bowed, with stiffly swinging arms to
Miss Maggie. He thought of Helena,--who was moving through the dance
as a flower sways on its stalk,--as one thinks of a child in pain;
with the impulse to hold out his arms. In his absorption he stood
stock-still--but happily the reel was over, and the people were
beginning to say good-by. He drew a long breath of relief at getting
rid of them, and as he stood waiting, Martha plucked at his sleeve.
"Give me the despatch; I'll break it to her."

He looked at her with absent eyes. "No; I'll see to it. Do start,
Martha, and maybe that will hurry them off!"

Mrs. King drew back, affronted. "Oh, very well," She said; and made
her cold adieux.

But Helena Richie was oblivious of Mrs. King's coldness; her anxiety
and dismay had grown into an uncontrollable nervousness, and when at
last, thinking she was alone, she threw up her arms with a gesture of
relief, the sight of William King, coming gravely towards her, made
her break into an angry exclamation. But before she knew it, he had
taken her hand, and was holding it in his kind clasp.

"Mrs. Richie, I am afraid I must give you bad news."

"Bad--news--?"

"A telegram has come," he began, taking the envelope from his pocket;
but she interrupted him, Seizing it with a sort of gasp and tearing it
open. A moment later she stood quite still, looking at the despatch,
then with dilating eyes at the doctor, and again at the despatch. She
pressed her fingers hard against her lips, and he saw that she was
trembling.

"You must sit down," he said gently, and put his big, quiet hand on
her shoulder. She sank under his firm touch into a chair.

"It is not--bad news."

"I am glad of that," William said. "But you are a little pale," he
added smiling.

"It was a shock."

"I am glad it was nothing more."

She spread out the telegram and read it again. She did not seem to
hear him. Dr. King looked at her uneasily. There was certainly no
grief in her face, yet her color did not come back.

"Some one is dead," she said. "Not--a friend." William was silent.
"But it startled me."

"Yes," the doctor said.

"Oh, Dr. King!" she cried violently; and put her hands over her face.
He thought with relief that tears had come. "He was--an enemy," she
said. "He is dead, Mrs. Richie; forgive him."

She did not answer. It was all William King could do not to stroke the
soft hair of the bent head, and say "Don't cry," as if to a child. But
when she lifted her face, her eyes were quite dry; there was a
flashing look in them that broke into breathless, wavering laughter.

"I beg your pardon; it is just the--the shock, you know."

"Yes," the doctor said; "I know." He could not help covering with his
big, warm palm, the shaking hands that were pulling and twisting the
telegram. "There, there! My dear Mrs. Richie--where is that bromide I
gave you for David? I want you to take some."

"Oh, it isn't necessary; truly it isn't. I am not unhappy. I am just--
"

"You are startled; and you must have a good night's sleep. Is the
bromide in David's room? I'll get it."

When he came back with the medicine, she took it hurriedly--anything
to get rid of him! "Is there anything I can do?" he said. "Do you want
to send any reply? I can take it down to-night and send it the first
thing in the morning."

"Oh!" she exclaimed, "what am I thinking of! Of course, a message--I
must send a message! Will you take it? Oh, I am afraid I trouble you
very much, but you are so kind. I'll go and write it."

She tried to rise, but she was still so shaken that involuntarily he
put out his hand to help her. At the old mahogany desk between the
windows she hunted about for paper and pencil, and when she found
them, wrote for a moment, rapidly; then paused, and tore the paper up.
William glanced at her side-wise; she was pressing the pencil against
her lips, her left hand opening and closing with agitation. The doctor
shook his head. "That won't do," he said to himself. Again she wrote;
again hesitated; again tore the sheet of paper across. It seemed to
him that he waited a long time. But when she brought him the message,
it was very short; only: _"F. is dead,"_ and her initials. It was
addressed to Mr. Lloyd Pryor.

"I am very much obliged to you," she said; her color was coming back,
and she had evidently got control of herself. But she hardly noticed
William's farewell, and he had not reached the front door before she
began to pace up and down the parlor.

"Well!" said Martha, "was it a brother, or sister? How did she take
it? I suppose you think she found it easier because you broke it to
her. I must say, William, flatly and frankly, that I think a nice
woman would rather have a woman near her when she is in trouble, than
a man. I was very tired, but I was perfectly willing to remain. Well!
what relation was this F.? A cousin?"

"Why, I don't know," the doctor confessed blankly; "she didn't say,
and it never occurred to me to ask; and--"

"Well, upon my word!" said Martha King.




CHAPTER XXI


Helena stood breathing quickly; it was as if she had been smothering,
and suddenly felt free air. She was alone. The people--the terrible,
persistently friendly, suffocating people, were gone! She could draw a
full breath; she could face her own blazing fact; ... _Frederick was
dead._

She was walking back and forth, staring with unseeing eyes at the
confusion of the room--chairs pulled out from their accustomed places;
two card-tables with a litter of cards and counters; the astral-lamp
burning low on the rosewood table that was cluttered with old
daguerreotypes belonging to the house. The dining-room door was ajar,
and as she passed it she had a glimpse of the empty disorder of the
room, and could hear her two women moving about, carrying off plates
and glasses and talking to each other.

"Well, I like company," she heard Sarah say. "I wish she'd have
somebody in every day."

And Maggie's harsh murmur: "You ain't got to cook for 'em." Then the
clatter of forks and spoons in the pantry.

"Seemed to me like as if she wasn't real glad to see 'em," Sarah
commented. "My! look at all this here good cake crumbled up on
somebody's plate."

"Well, a widow woman don't enjoy company," Maggie explained.

A minute later Sarah came bustling in to close the parlor windows for
the night, and started to find the room still occupied. "I thought you
had gone upstairs, ma'am," the girl stammered, wondering nervously if
she had said anything that she would not care to have overheard.

"I am going now," Mrs. Richie said, drawing a long breath, and opening
and shutting her eyes in a dazed way;--"like as if she'd been asleep
and was woke up, sudden," Sarah told Maggie later.

In her own room, the door locked, she sank down in a chair, her
clasped hands falling between her knees, her eyes staring at the
floor.

_Dead._

How long he had been about dying. Thirteen years ago Lloyd had said,
"He'll drink himself to death in six months; and then--!" Well; at
least part of the programme was carried out: he drank. But he did not
die. No; he went on living, living, living! That first year they were
constantly asking each other for news of him: "Have you heard
anything?" "Yes; an awful debauch. Oh, he can't stand it. He'll be in
his grave before Christmas." But Christmas came, and Frederick was
still living. Then it was "before spring"--"before fall"--"before
Christmas" again. And yet he went on living. And she had gone on
living, too. At first, joyously, except when she brooded over the
baby's death; then impatiently--for Frederick would not die! Then,
gradually, gradually, with weary acceptance of the situation. Only in
the last two or three years had she begun to live anxiously, as she
realized how easily Lloyd was accepting Frederick's lease of life.
Less and less often he inquired whether Mr. Raynor had mentioned
Frederick's health in the letter that came with her quarterly
statement. By and by, it was she, not Lloyd, who asked, "Have you
heard anything of Frederick?"

The house was quite silent now, except when Sarah trudged up the back
stairs with the clanking silver-basket on her arm. The lamp on the
corner of her bureau flickered, and a spark wavered up the chimney;
the oil was gone and the wick charring. She got up and blew the
smouldering flame out; then sat down again in the darkness.... Yes;
Lloyd was no longer vitally interested in Frederick's health. She must
make up her mind to that. But after all, what difference did that
make? He loved her just the same, only men are not like women, they
don't keep on saying so,--for that matter, she herself did not say so
as often as in those first days. But of course she loved him just as
much. She had grown a little dull, she supposed. No; she would not
distrust him. She was sure he loved her. Yet behind her most emphatic
assertions cowered that dumb apprehension which had struck its cold
talons into her heart the day that David had hurt his hand: ...
_Suppose Frederick's death should be an embarrassment to Lloyd!_

In the darkness, with the brush of the locust branches against the
closed shutters of the east window, her face blazed with angry color,
and she threw her head up with a surge of pride. "If he doesn't want
me, I don't want him!" she said aloud. She pulled the lace bertha from
her shoulders, and began to take out her hairpins, "I sha'n't be the
one to say 'Let us be married.'"

When she lay down in the darkness, her eyes wide open, her arms
straight at her sides, it flashed into her mind that Frederick was
lying still and straight, too. His face must be white, now; sunken,
perhaps; the leer of his pale eyes changed into the sly smile of the
dead. _Dead._ Oh, at last, at last!--and her mind rushed back to
its own affairs....That horrible old Mr. Wright and his insinuations;
how she had worried over them and over the difficulty of getting away
from Old Chester, only that afternoon. Ah, well, she need never think
of such things again, for never again could any one have an insulting
thought about her; and as for her fear that Lloyd would not want her
to leave Old Chester--why, he would take her away himself! And once
outside of Old Chester, she would have a place in the world like other
women. She was conscious of a sudden and passionate elation: _Like
other women._ The very words were triumphant! Yes; like that
dreadful Mrs. King; oh, how intolerably stupid the woman was, how she
disliked her; but when Lloyd came and they went away together, she
would be like Mrs. King! She drew an exultant breath and smiled
proudly in the darkness. For the moment the cowering fear was
forgotten....How soon could he come? He ought to have the telegram by
ten the next morning--too late to catch the express for Mercer. He
would take the night train, and arrive at noon on Saturday. A day and
a half to wait. And at that she realized with sudden astonishment that
it was still Thursday. It seemed hours and hours since she had read
that telegram. Yet it was scarcely an hour ago that she had been
dancing the Virginia reel with those terrible people! A little later
she had noticed William King lingering behind the departing guests;
how annoyed she had been at his slowness. Then he had taken that
envelope out of his pocket--she gasped again, remembering the shock of
its contents.

In this tumult of broken and incoherent thought, the night passed. It
was not until dawn that her mind cleared enough for consecutive
thinking, and when it did she was so fatigued that she fell asleep and
slept heavily till awakened by an anxious knock at her door. Had Mrs.
Richie one of her headaches? Should Sarah bring her some coffee?

"Why, what time is it? Has David gone to school? What! ten o'clock!"
She was broad awake at that--he must have got the despatch. Allowing
for delays, his answer ought to reach her by noon.

She sprang up with the instinct to do something to get ready! She
began to plan her packing, the thrill of action tingling through her.
She dressed hurriedly, looking incessantly at the clock, and then
laughing to herself. What difference did it make how late it was? By
no possibility could Lloyd appear on the morning stage; unless, yes,
it _was_ possible; Mr. Raynor might have telegraphed him. No; Mr.
Raynor had never recognized the situation. Lloyd could not reach her
until noon on Saturday; he could only telegraph. She sighed and
resigned herself to facts, drinking the coffee Sarah brought her, and
asking whether David was all right. "Poor darling, having his
breakfast all alone," she said. Then she looked at the clock; Lloyd's
despatch could hardly arrive for another hour.

The still, hot morning stretched interminably before her. A dozen
times it was on her lips to order the trunks brought down from the
garret. A dozen times some undefined sense of fitness held her back.
When his answer came, when he actually said the word--then; but not
till then.... What time was it? After eleven! She would go into the
garden, where she could look down the road and have the first glimpse
of Eddy Minns climbing the hill. With her thoughts in galloping
confusion, she put on her flat hat with its twist of white lace about
the crown, and went out into the heat. From the bench under the big
poplar she looked across at the girdling hills, blue and hot in the
still flood of noon; below her was the valley, now a sea of treetops
islanded with Old Chester roofs and chimneys; there was no gleam of
the river through the midsummer foliage. She took her watch out of the
little watch-pocket at her waist--nearly twelve! If he had got the
despatch at nine, it was surely time for an answer. Still, so many
things might have happened to delay it. He might have been late in
getting to his office; or, for that matter, Eddy Minns might be slow
about coming up the hill. Everybody was slow in Old Chester!

The empty road ran down to the foot of the hill, no trudging messenger
climbed its hot slope. Twelve.

"I'll not look at the road for five minutes," she told herself,
resolutely, and sat staring at the watch open in her hand. Five
minutes later she snapped the lid shut, and looked. Blazing, unbroken
sunshine. "It ought to have been here by this time," she thought with
a tightening of her lips. Perhaps he was away? Her heart sank at that;
but how absurd! Suppose he was. What did a few hours' waiting amount
to? She had waited thirteen years.

For another hour she watched in the heat and silence of the garden;
then started to hear Sarah, at her elbow, saying that dinner was on
the table.

"Very well," she answered impatiently. "I'll wait another five
minutes," she said to herself. But she waited ten. When she sat down
in the dining-room, she ate almost nothing. Once she asked Sarah if
she knew how long it took for a despatch to come from Philadelphia to
Old Chester. Sarah gaped at the question, and said she didn't know as
she'd ever heard.

In the afternoon, with covert glances out of the window, she kept
indoors and tried to put her mind on practical things: the
arrangements with her landlord for cancelling the lease; the packing
and shipping of furniture. At last, on a sudden impulse, she said to
herself that she would go and meet David as he came home from school--
and call at the telegraph-office.

In the post-office, where the telegraph bound Old Chester to the outer
world, Mrs. Minns, looking up from her knitting, saw the tense face at
the delivery window.

"No letters for you, Mrs. Richie," she said; then she remembered the
telegram that had by this time interested all Old Chester, and got up
and came forward, sympathetically curious. "Well'm; I suppose there's
a good deal of dyin' this time of year?"

"Have you a despatch for me?" Mrs. Richie said curtly.

"No'm;" said Mrs. Minns.

"Did Dr. King send a telegram for me this morning?" she asked in a
sudden panic of alarm.

"Yes'm," the postmistress said, "he sent it."

Mrs. Richie turned away, and began to walk about the office; up and
down, up and down. Once she stopped and read the names on the
pigeonholes of the letter-rack; once the telegraph instrument clicked,
and she held her breath: "Is that mine?"

"It ain't," Mrs. Minns said laconically.

Helena went to the open doorway, and gazed blankly out into Main
Street. She might as well go home; he wasn't going to telegraph. She
told herself that he was out of town, and had not received her
despatch. But her explanation was not convincing; if he was away, the
despatch would have been forwarded to him. It must be that as he was
coming on Saturday, he had not thought it worth while to telegraph.
She wandered aimlessly out into the hot street--there was no use
waiting any longer; and as for meeting David, he had gone home long
ago.

As she went up the street, Dr. Lavendar stopped her. He had been told
that the news of the night before did not mean affliction, but Dr.
Lavendar knew that there are worse things than affliction, so he stood
ready to offer comfort if it was needed. But apparently it was not
wanted, and after a minute's pause, he began to speak of his own
affairs: "I've been wondering if you would trust David to me for two
or three days in October."

"David?" she repeated, blankly; her mind was very far away from David.

"I have to go to Philadelphia then;" Dr. Lavendar was really eager;
"and if you will let me take him along--I guess Rose Knight will let
him off--we would have a fine time!"

"Certainly, Dr. Lavendar," she said, courteously. But she thought
quickly, that she and David would not be in Old Chester in October.
However, she could not explain that to Dr. Lavendar. It was easier to
say yes, and be done with it. "Good evening," she added impatiently,
for the old gentleman would have kept her indefinitely, talking about
David.

But as she climbed the hill her mind went out to the child with the
relief of one who in darkness opens a door towards the light. She
found him in the parlor, curled up in a big chair by the window,
looking at a picture-book. He climbed down immediately, and came and
took her hand in his, a demonstration of affection so unusual that she
caught him in her arms and might have cuddled him with the undesired
"forty kisses," if he had not gently moved his head aside. But her
eyes were so blurred with tears of fatigue and Fright she did not
notice the rebuff.

The next twenty-four hours were tense with expectation and fear.
Helena's mind veered almost with every breath: He had not telegraphed
because he had not received her despatch; because he was away from
home; because he was coming on Saturday;--_because he was sorry
Frederick was dead..._

Saturday morning she and David watched the hill road from nine o'clock
until stage-time. From the green bench under the poplar, the tavern
porch on Main Street could just be seen; and at a little before twelve
Jonas's lean, shambling nags drew up before it. Mrs. Richie was very
pale. David, fretting at the dullness of the morning, asked her some
question, but She did not hear him, and he pulled at her skirt. "Does
everything grow?"

"Yes, dear, yes; I suppose so."

"How big is everything when it begins to grow?"

"Oh, dear little boy, don't ask so many questions!"

"When you began to grow, how big were you? Were you an inch big?"

"If he has come," she said breathlessly, "the stage will get up here
in fifteen minutes!"

David sighed.

"Oh, why don't they start?" she panted; "what _is_ the matter!"

"It's starting," David said.

"Come, David, hurry!" she cried. "We must be at the gate!" She took
his hand, and ran down the path to the gate in the hedge. As she stood
there, panting, she pressed her fingers hard on her lips; they must
not quiver before the child. She kept her watch in her hand. "It isn't
time yet to see them; it will take Jonas ten minutes to get around to
the foot of the hill."

Overhead the flicker of locust leaves cast checkering lights and
shadows on her white dress and across the strained anxiety of her
face. She kept her eyes on her watch, and the ten minutes passed in
silence. Then she went out into the road and looked down its length of
noon-tide sunshine; the stage was not in sight. "Perhaps," she
thought, "it would take twenty minutes to get to the foot of the hill?
I'll not look down the road for ten minutes more." After a while she
said faintly, "Is it--coming?"

"No'm," David assured her, "Mrs. Richie, what does God eat?"

There was no answer.

"Does he eat us?"

"No, of course not."

"Why not?"

Helena lifted her head, suddenly, "It would take twenty-five minutes--
I'm sure it would."

She got up and walked a little way down the road, David tagging
thoughtfully behind her. There was no stage in sight. "David, run down
the hill to the turn, and look."

The little boy, nothing loath, ran, at the turn he shook his head, and
called back, "No'm. Mrs. Richie, He _must_, 'cause there's nothing
goes to heaven but us. Chickens don't," he explained anxiously. But
she did not notice his alarm.

"I'll wait another five minutes," she said. She waited ten; and then
another ten. "David," she said, in a smothered voice, "go; tell Maggie
he isn't coming--to dinner. You have your dinner, dear little boy.
I--don't want any."

She went up-stairs to her own room, and shut and locked the door. All
was over....

Yet when, in the early afternoon, the mail arrived, she had a pang of
hope that was absolute agony, for he had written.

There were only a dozen lines besides the "Dearest Nelly":

"I am just starting out West, rather unexpectedly, on business. I am
taking Alice along, and she is greatly delighted at the idea of a
journey--her first. I don't know just when I'll get back; not for six
weeks anyhow. Probably eight. Hope you and your youngster are all
right.

"Yours, L. P.

"Your despatch received. We must talk things over the next time I come
to Old Chester."

She passed her hand over her eyes in a bewildered way; for a moment
the words had absolutely no sense. Then she read them again: "We must
talk things Over--"

What things? Why, their marriage, of course! Their marriage? She burst
out laughing; and David, looking at her, shrank away.




CHAPTER XXII


The next few days were intolerable. But of course, after the first
passion of disappointment, she began to hope; he would write fully in
a few days. She kept calculating how soon she might expect this fuller
letter. She did not write to him, for as he had given no address it
was evident that he did not wish to hear from her.

That week passed, and then another, and though he wrote, he did not
write "fully." In fact, he made no allusion whatever to Frederick, or
the future. Helena was instant with explanation: he was absorbed with
business; Alice was with him; he had no time. That these were absurd
excuses she knew. But they were the best she could find, and she had
to have excuses. It was at this time that she saw herself age. When
still another week passed, the tension lessened; indeed, she would
have broken down under the strain if she had not fallen into a sort of
apathy. She told herself that after all there was no reason why she
should leave Old Chester immediately. Mr. Benjamin Wright's insolence
had been outrageous and he was a horrible old man; but he had said
that he would not speak of her affairs. So as far as he was concerned
she could perfectly well wait until that Western trip was over; she
would just try not to think of him. So she played with David, and
talked to him, and listened to his confidences about the journey to
Philadelphia which Dr. Lavendar planned. It was more than two months
off, but that did not trouble David. He and Dr. Lavendar had long
talks on the subject, of which, occasionally, the little boy dropped
condescending hints.

"Maybe I'll take you to Philadelphia," Helena said once, jealously;
"will you like that?"

"Yes'm," said David, without enthusiasm.

At which she reproached him; "I should think you would like to go with
me, to see Liberty Bell?"

Silence.

"And maybe Mr. Pryor will take you to ride on a steamboat," she lured
him.

"I like Dr. Lavendar best," said David, with alarm.

It was only David with whom Helena talked in these days of waiting;
Old Chester found her still unsociable, and William King was obliged
to admit that his party had not accomplished much. However, he
insisted upon being sociable himself, and continued to come frequently
to see her on the ground that she was not very well. Before she knew
it she yielded again to the temptation of friendliness, and was glad
to see the big, kind figure trudging up the garden path. He told her
all the news Old Chester afforded, which was not extensive, and she
replied with that listening silence which is so pleasant and that gave
the doctor the opportunity--so valued by us all--of hearing himself
talk; an opportunity not often allowed him in his own house. The
silence covered bleak anxiety and often an entire absence of mind; but
William, rambling on, could not know that. He was perfectly happy to
look at her, although sometimes his face sobered, for hers had
changed. It was paler; the delicate oval of her cheek had hollowed;
the charming indolence had gone; the eyes had lost their sweet
shallowness, something cowered in their depths that he could not
clearly see--fear, perhaps, or pain. Or perhaps it was her soul.
Sometimes when the body relaxes its grip a little, the convict soul
within struggles up to look with frightened bewilderment out of the
windows of its prison. Dr. King watching the childlike droop of
Helena's lip, admitted reluctantly that she had changed. "Depressed,"
he told himself. So he did his best to cheer her with Old Chester's
harmless gossip; and one day--it was in September--she did show a
quick and even anxious interest.

"Sam Wright's Sam has come back," the doctor said, "the young man
arrived on the noon stage. I wonder what monkey-shines he'll be up to
next!"

"_Oh!_" she said, and he saw her hands clasp in her lap; "I wonder if
his grandfather knows?"

The color was hot in her face, and William said to himself that the
cub ought to be thrashed! "Maybe he's got some sense by this journey
in search of a publisher," he announced comfortingly.

In her consciousness of old Mr. Wright's dismay, she hardly heard what
the doctor said; but she asked vaguely if Sam had found a publisher.

"Perhaps; I don't know. There are fools in every profession--except
medicine, of course! But I believe he has not imparted any information
on that point. His father merely told me he had come back." In spite
of himself, William's face fell into its own kind lines. "His father
is hard on him," he said; and then he began to tell her stories of the
three generations of Wrights; ending with the statement that, in a
dumb sort of fashion, Samuel loved his son like the apple of his eye.
"But he has always taken hold of him the wrong way," William said.

Certainly the doctor's opinion was borne out by the way in which Sam
senior took hold of his son on his return. Reproaches were perhaps to
be expected, but, alas, the poor, sore-hearted father tried sneers as
well. A sneer is like a flame; it may occasionally be curative because
it cauterizes, but it leaves a bitter scar. Of his dreadful anxiety in
these seven or eight weeks of absence, of his sleepless nights, of his
self-accusings, of his anguished affection, the senior warden could
find nothing to say; but for anger and disappointment and contempt he
had fluent and searing words. Such words were only the recoil from
anxiety; but Sam could not know that; he only knew that he was a
disgrace to his family. The information left him apparently unmoved.
He did not betray--very likely he really did not recognize in
himself--the moral let-down that is almost always the result of such
upbraiding. He was silent under his father's reproaches, and patient
under his mother's embraces. He vouchsafed no information beyond, "I
had to come back," which was really no information at all. Mr. Wright
sneered at it, but Mrs. Wright was moved, she said, her mild eyes
swimming in tears, "Of course, Sammy, dear. Mother understands. I knew
you couldn't stay away from us."

Sam sighed, submitting to be kissed, and turned to go up-stairs; but
something made him hesitate,--perhaps his mother's worn face. He came
back, and bending down kissed her cheek. Mrs. Wright caught her breath
with astonishment, but the boy made no explanation. He went on up to
his own room and standing listlessly at the window, said again to
himself, "I had to come back." After a while he added "But I won't
bother her." He had already forgotten the two sore hearts down-stairs.

The next morning he hurried to church; but Mrs. Richie was not there,
and in his disappointment he was as blind to Old Chester's curious
glances as he was deaf to Dr. Lavendar's sermon.

The long morning loitered past. After dinner the Wright family
dispersed for its customary Sunday afternoon nap. The senior warden,
with _The Episcopalian_, as large as a small blanket, spread over
his face, slept heavily in the library; Mrs. Wright dozed in her
bedroom with one finger marking her place in a closed volume of
sermons; the little girls wandered stealthily about the garden,
memorizing by their father's orders their weekly hymn. The house was
still, and very hot. All the afternoon young Sam lay upon his bed
turning the pages of _The Wealth of Nations_, and brooding over
his failures: he could not make Mrs. Richie love him; he could not
write a great drama; he could not add up a column of figures; he could
not understand his father's rages at unimportant things; "and nobody
cares a continental whether I am dead or alive!--except mother," he
ended; and his face softened. At five o'clock he reminded himself that
he must go up to The Top for supper. But it was nearly six before he
had energy enough to rise. The fact was, he shrank from telling his
grandfather that the drama was no longer in existence. He had been
somewhat rudely rebuffed by the only person who had looked at his
manuscript, and had promptly torn the play up and scattered the
fragments out of the window of his boarding-house. That was two days
ago. The curious lassitude which followed this _acces_ of passion
was probably increased by the senior warden's reproaches. But Sam
believed himself entirely indifferent both to his literary failure,
and to his father's scolding. Neither was in his mind as he climbed
the hill, and halted for a wistful moment at the green gate in the
hedge; but he had no glimpse of Mrs. Richie.

He found his grandfather sitting on the veranda behind the big white
columns, reading aloud, and gesticulating with one hand:

  "'But if proud Mortimer do wear this crown,
  Heaven turn it to a blaze of quenchless fire
  Or like the snaky wreath of Sisiphon--'"

He looked up irritably at the sound of a step on the weedy driveway,
then his eyes snapped with delight.

"Hullo--hullo! what's this?"

"I had to come back, grandfather," Sam said.

"Well! Well!" said Benjamin Wright, his whole face wrinkling with
pleasure. "'Had to come back?' Money gave out, I suppose? Sit down,
sit down! Hi, Simmons! Damn that nigger. Simmons, here's Master Sam.
What have you got for supper? Well, young man, did you get some sense
knocked into you?" He was trembling with eagerness. Marlowe, in worm-
eaten calf, dropped from his hand to the porch floor. Sam picked the
book up, and sat down.

"If you wanted some more money, why the devil didn't you say so?"

"I had money enough, sir."

"Well--what about the drama?" his grandfather demanded.

"He said it was no good."

"Who said it was no good?" Mr. Wright pulled off his hat, fiercely,
and began to chew orange-skin. Sam, vaguely turning over the leaves of
the book upon his knee, mentioned the name of a publisher. "Fool!"
said Benjamin Wright; "what does he know? Well; I hope you didn't
waste time over him. Then who did you send it to?"

"Nobody."

"Nobody! What did you do with it?"

"Oh, tore it up," Sam said patiently.

His grandfather fell back in his chair, speechless, A moment later, he
told Sam he was not only a fool, but a d--

"Supper's ready, suh," said Simmons. "Glad you're back, Master Sam. He
ain't lookin' peart, suh?" Simmons added confidentially to Mr. Wright.

"Well, you get some of that Maderia--'l2," commanded the old man,
pulling himself up from his chair. "Sam, you are a born idiot, aren't
you? Come and have some supper. Didn't I tell you you might have to
try a dozen publishers before you found one who had any sense? Your
experience just shows they're a fool lot. And you tore up your
manuscript! Gad-a-mercy!" He grinned and swore alternately, and banged
his hat on to his head so that his ears flattened out beneath the brim
like two red flaps.

They sat down at either end of the dining-room table, Simmons standing
at one side, his yellow eyes gleaming with interested affection and
his fly-brush of long peacock feathers waving steadily, even when he
moved about with the decanter.

"I had to come back," Sam repeated, and drank his glass of '12 Maderia
with as much appreciation as if it had been water.

"I've got a new family," Mr. Wright declared, "Simmons, unhook that
second cage, and show him the nest. Look at that. Three of 'em.
Hideous, ain't they? Simmons, you didn't chop that egg fine enough. Do
you want to kill 'em all? A nigger has no more feeling for birds than
a cat."

"I done chop it, as--"

"Hold your tongue!" said Mr. Wright, amiably "Here; take that." He
fumbled in his vest pocket, and the peacock feathers dipped
dangerously as Simmons caught the expected cigar. "Come, come, young
man, haven't you had enough to eat? Give him another glass of wine,
Simmons, you freckled nigger! Come out on the porch, and tell me your
wanderings, Ulysses."

The boy was faintly impressed by his grandfather's attentions; he felt
that he was welcome, which gave him a vague sort of pleasure. On the
porch, in the hot dusk, Benjamin Wright talked; once or twice, apropos
of nothing, he quoted some noble stanza, apparently for the joy of the
rolling numbers. The fact was, he was full of happiness at his
grandson's return, but he had had so little experience in happiness
that he did not know how to express it. He asked a good many
questions, and received apathetic answers.

"Have you got any notes of the drama?"

"No, sir."

"Doggone your picter!--

  "'Then sing, ye birds, sing, sing a joyous song,
  And let the young lambs bound
  As to the tabor's sound!"

So you made up your mind to come home?"

"I had to come back, "Sam said.

There was a pause. Benjamin Wright was reminding himself that in
handling a boy, one must be careful not to Say the wrong thing; one
must express one's self with reserve and delicacy; one must weigh
one's words--boys were such jackasses.

"Well;" he said, "got over your fool falling in love with a female old
enough to be your mother?"

Sam looked at him.

"I hope your trip has put sense into you on that subject, anyhow?"

"I love Mrs. Richie as much as I ever did, if that's what you mean,
sir," Sam said listlessly.

Upon which his grandfather flew into instant rage. "As much in love as
ever! Gad-a-mercy! Well; I give you up, sir, I give you up. I spend my
money to get you out of this place, away from this female, old enough
to be your grandmother, and you come back and say you are as much in
love with her as ever. I swear, I don't believe you have a drop of my
blood in you!" He flung his cigar away, and plunged his hand down into
the ginger-jar on the bench beside him; "A little boy like you, just
in breeches! Why, your mother ought to put you over her knee, and--"
he stopped. "You have no sense, Sam," he added with startling
mildness.

But Sam's face was as red as his grandfather's. "She is only ten years
older than I. That is nothing. Nothing at all. If she will overlook my
comparative youth and marry me, I--"

"Damnation!" his grandfather screamed.. "_She_ overlook? _She_?"

"I am younger," the boy said; "but love isn't a matter of age. It's a
matter of the soul."

"A matter of the soul!" said Benjamin Wright; "a matter of--of a
sugar-tit for a toothless baby! Which is just about what you are. That
female, I tell you could have dandled you on her knee ten years ago."

Sam got up; he was trembling all over.

"You needn't insult me," he said.

Instantly his grandfather was calm. He stopped chewing orange-skin,
and looked hard at his ridgy finger-nails.

"I shall ask her again," Sam said. "I said I wouldn't, but I will. I
must. That was why I came back. And as for my age, that's her business
and mine."

"You've drunk too much," said his grandfather, "Sit down. I've
something to say to you. You can't marry that woman. Do you understand
me?"

"You mean she doesn't care for me?" Sam laughed noisily. "I'll make
her. Old--young--what does it matter? She must!" He flung up his
arms, and then sank down and hid his face in his hands.

"Sammy," said the old man, and stopped. "Sam, it can't be. Don't you
understand me? She isn't fit to marry."

The young man gaped at him, blankly.

"She's--bad," Benjamin Wright said, in a low voice.

"How dare you!" cried the other, his frowning bewilderment changing
slowly to fury; "how dare you? If she had a relative here to protect
her, you would never dare! If her brother was here, he would shoot
you; but she has me, and I--"

"Her _brother_!" said Benjamin Wright; "Sam, my boy, he isn't her
brother."

"Isn't he?" Sam flung back at him, "well, what of that? I'm glad of
it; I hate him." He stood up, his hands clenched, his head flung back.
"What difference does it make to me what he is? Her cousin, her
friend--what do I care? If she marries me, what do I care for
relations?"

His grandfather looked up at him aghast; the young, insulted innocence
of love blazed in the boy's face. "Gad-a-mercy," said Mr. Wright, in a
whisper, "_he doesn't understand!_" He pulled himself on to his
shaking legs, and laid his hand on the young man's shoulder. "Sam," he
said very gently, "he is her lover, my boy." Sam's lips fell apart;
he gasped heavily; his hands slowly opened and shut, and he swayed
from side to side; his wild eyes were fixed on that old face, all
softened and moved and pitying. Then, with a discordant shriek of
laughter, he flung out his open hand and struck his grandfather full
in the face.

"You old fool! You lie! You lie! Do you hear me?"

Benjamin Wright, staggering slightly from the blow, tried to speak,
but the boy, still laughing shrilly, leaped down the porch steps, and
out into the darkness.

"I'll ask her!" he screamed back; "you liar!"




CHAPTER XXIII


Helena had gone up-stairs to put David to bed. There was some delay
in the process, because the little boy wished to look at the stars,
and trace out the Dipper. That accomplished however, he was very
docile, and willing to get into bed by shinning up the mast of a
pirate-ship--which some people might have called a bedpost. After he
had fallen asleep, Helena still sat beside him in the darkness, her
absent eyes fixed on the little warm body, where, the sheets kicked
off, he sprawled in a sort of spread-eagle over the bed. It was very
hot, and she would have been more comfortable on the porch, but she
could not leave the child. When she was with David, the sense of
aching apprehension dulled into the comfort of loving. After a while,
with a long sigh she rose, but stopped to draw the sheet over his
shoulders; then smiled to see how quickly he kicked it off. She pulled
it up again as far as his knees, and to this he resigned himself with
a despairing grunt.

There was a lamp burning dimly in the hall; as she passed she took it
up and went slowly down-stairs. Away from David, her thoughts fell at
once into the groove of the past weeks. Each hour she had tormented
herself by some new question, and now she was wondering what she
should do if, when Lloyd came to fulfill his promise, she should see a
shade, oh, even the faintest hint, of hesitation in his manner. Well;
she would meet it! She threw her head up, and came down with a quicker
step, carrying the lamp high, like a torch. But as she lifted her
eyes, in that gust of pride, young Sam Wright stood panting in the
doorway. As his strangled voice fell on her ear, she knew that he
knew.

"I have--come--"

Without a word she put the lamp down on the table at the foot of the
stairs, and looked at him standing there with the darkness of the
night behind him. Instantly he was across the threshold and at her
side. He gripped her wrist and shook it, his eyes burning into hers.

"You will tell me that he lied! I told him he lied. I didn't believe
him for a second. I told him I would ask you."

"Please let go of my arm," she said, faintly. "I don't know what you
are--talking about."

"Did he lie?"

"Who?" she stammered.

"My grandfather. He said your brother was not your brother. He said he
was your lover. My God! Your lover! Did he lie?" He shook her arm,
worrying it as a dog might, his nails cutting into her flesh; he
snarled his question out between shut teeth. His fury swept words from
her lips.

She stepped back with a spring of terror, trying to pull her wrist
from his grasp; but he followed her, his dreadful young face close to
hers. She put her other hand behind her, and clutched at the banister-
rail of the stairs. She stared at him in a trance of fright. There was
a long minute of silence.

Then Sam said slowly, as though he were reading it word by word,
aloud, from the open page of her face, "He--did--not--lie." He dropped
her wrist; flung it from him, even, and stood motionless. Again
neither of them spoke. Then Sam drew a long breath. "So, _this_
is life," he said, in a curiously meditative way. "Well; I have had
enough of it." He turned as he spoke, and went quietly out into the
night.

Helena Richie sat down on the lowest step of the stairs. She breathed
in gasps. Suddenly she looked at her arm on which were four deep red
marks; in two places the skin was broken. Upon the fierce pangs of her
mind, flayed and stabbed by the boy's words, this physical pain of
which she had just become conscious, was like some soothing lotion.
She stroked her wrist tenderly, jealous of the lessening smart. She
knew vaguely that she was really wincing lest the smart should cease
and the other agony begin. She looked with blind eyes at the lamp,
then got up and turned the wick down; it had been smoking slightly and
a half-moon of black had settled on the chimney. "Sarah doesn't half
look after the lamps," she said aloud, fretfully--and drew in her
lips; the nail-marks stung. But the red was dying out of them. Yes;
the other pain was coming back. She paled with fright of that pain
which was coming; coming; had come. She covered her face with her
hands....

"Who," demanded a sleepy voice, "was scolding?"

Helena looked around quickly; David, in his little cotton night-
drawers, was standing at the head of the stairs.

"Who scolded? I heard 'em," he said, beginning to come down, one
little bare foot at a time; his eyes blinked drowsily at the lamp.
Helena caught him in her arms, and sank down again on the step. But he
struggled up out of her lap, and stood before her 'It's too hot," he
said, "I heard 'em. And I came down. Was anybody scolding you?"

"Yes, David," she said in a smothered voice.

"Were you bad?" David asked with interest.

Helena dropped her forehead on to his little warm shoulder. She could
feel his heart beating, and his breath on her neck.

"Your head's pretty heavy," said David patiently; "and hot."

At that she lifted herself up, and tried to smile; "Come, dear
precious, come up-stairs. Never mind if people scold me. I--deserve
it."

"Do you?" said David. "Why?"

He was wide awake by this time, and pleaded against bed. "Tell me why,
on the porch; I don't mind sitting on your lap out there," he bribed
her; "though you are pretty hot to sit on," he added, truthfully.

She could not resist him; to have him on her knee, his tousled head on
her breast, was an inexpressible comfort,

"When I go travelling with Dr. Lavendar," David announced drowsily, "I
am going to put my trousers into the tops of my boots, like George
does. Does God drink out of that Dipper?"

Her doubtful murmur seemed to satisfy him; he shut his eyes, nuzzling
his head into her breast, and as she leaned her cheek on his hair--
which he permitted because he was too sleepy to protest--the ache of
sobs lessened in her throat. After a while, when he was sound asleep
again, she carried him up-stairs and laid him in his bed, sitting
beside him for a while lest he should awake. Then she went down to the
porch and faced the situation....

Sometimes she got up and walked about; sometimes sat down, her elbows
on her knees, her forehead in her hands, one foot tapping, tapping,
tapping. Her first idea was flight: she must not wait for Lloyd; she
must take David and go at once. By to-morrow, everybody would know.
She would write Lloyd that she would await him in Philadelphia. "I
will go to a hotel" she told herself. Of course, it was possible that
Sam would keep his knowledge to himself, as his grandfather had done,
but it was not probable. And even if he did, his knowledge made the
place absolutely unendurable to her; she could not bear it for a day--
for an hour! Yes; she must get off by tomorrow night; and--

Suddenly, into the midst of this horrible personal alarm, came, like
an echo, Sam's last words. The memory of them was so clear that it was
almost as if he uttered them aloud at her side: "Well; I have had
enough of it." Enough of what? Of loving her? Ah, yes; he was cured
now of all that. But was that what he meant? "So this is life.... I
have had enough of it."

Helena Richie leaped to her feet. It seemed to her as if all her blood
was flowing slowly back to her heart. There was no pain now in those
nail-marks; there was no pain in her crushed humiliation. _"I have
had enough of it."..._

Good God! She caught her skirts up in her hand and flew down the steps
and out into the garden. At the gate, under the lacey roof of locust
leaves, she stood motionless, straining her ears. All was still. How
long ago was it that he had rushed away? More than an hour. Oh, no,
no; he could not have meant--! But all the same, she must find him:
"_I have had enough of it_." Under her breath she called his name.
Silence. She told herself distractedly that she was a fool, but
a moment later she fled down the hill. She must find Dr. King; he
would know what to do.

She was panting when she reached his gate, and after she had rung and
was beating upon the door with the palm of her hand, she had to cling
to the knob for support.

"Oh come; oh, hurry! Hurry!" she said, listening to Mrs. King's
deliberate step on the oilcloth of the hall.

"Where is Dr. King?" she gasped, as the door opened; "I want Dr.
King!"

Martha, in her astonishment at this white-faced creature with skirts
draggled by the dew and dust of the grass-fringed road, started back,
the flame of the lamp she carried flickering and jumping in the
draught. "What is the matter? Is David--"

"Oh, where is Dr. King? Please--please! I want Dr. King--"

William by this time was in the hall, and when he saw her face he,
too, said:

"David?"

"No. It's--May I speak to you a moment? In the office? I am alarmed
about--something."

She brushed past Mrs. King, who was still gaping at the suddenness of
this apparition from the night, and followed the doctor into the
little room on the left of the passage. Martha, deeply affronted, saw
the door shut in her face.

As for Mrs. Richie, she stood panting in the darkness of the office:

"I am very much frightened. Sam Wright has just left me, and--"

William King, scratching a match under the table and fumbling with the
lamp chimney, laughed. "Is that all? I thought somebody had hung
himself."

"Oh, Dr. King," she cried, "I'm afraid, I'm afraid!"

He put out his friendly hand and led her to a chair. "Now, Mrs.
Richie," he said in his comforting voice, "sit down here, and get your
breath. There's nothing the matter with that scalawag, I assure you.
Has he been making himself a nuisance? I'll kick him!"

At these commonplace words, the tension broke in a rush of hysterical
tears, which, while it relieved her, maddened her because for a moment
she was unable to speak. But she managed to say, brokenly, that the
boy had said something which frightened her, for fear that he might--

"Kill himself?" said the doctor, cheerfully, "No indeed! The people
who threaten to kill themselves, never do. Come, now, forget all about
him." And William, smiling, drew one of her hands down from her eyes.
"Gracious! what a wrist! Did David scratch you?"

She pulled her hand away, and hid it in the folds of her skirt. "Oh, I
do hope you are right; but Dr. King, he said something--and I was so
frightened. Oh, if I could just know he had got home, all safe!"

"Well, it's easy to know that," said William. "Come, let us walk down
to Mr. Wright's; I bet a hat we'll find the young gentleman eating a
late supper with an excellent appetite. Love doesn't kill, Mrs.,
Richie--at Sam's age."

She was silent.

William took his lantern out of a closet, and made a somewhat
elaborate matter of lighting it, wiping off the oozing oil from the
tank, and then shutting the frame with a cheerful snap. It would give
her time to get hold of herself, he thought.

"I must apologize to Mrs. King," Helena said. "I was so frightened,
that I'm afraid I was abrupt."

"Oh, that's all right," said Martha's husband, easily, and opened the
outer door of the office. "Come."

She followed him down the garden path to the street: there in the
darkness, broken by the gay zigzag of the lantern across the
flagstones of the sidewalk, William found it easier to speak out:

"I hope you don't mind my referring to Sam's being in love, Mrs.
Richie? Of course, we have all known that he had lost his heart. Boys
will, you know. And, honestly, I think if ever a boy had excuse for--
that sort of thing, Sam had. But it has distressed me to have you
bothered. And to-night is the climax. For him to talk like a--a jack-
donkey, because you very properly snubbed him--you mustn't mind my
speaking plainly; I have understood the whole thing from the
beginning--makes me mad. You're really worn out. Confound that boy!
You are too good, Mrs. Richie, that's the trouble. You let yourself be
imposed upon."

Her broken "no--no" seemed to him a lovely humility, and he laughed
and shook his head.

"Yes, yes! When I see how gentle women are with us clods of men, I
really, I--you know--" William had never since his courting days got
into such a bog of sentiment, and he stammered his way out of it by
saying that Sam was a perfect nuisance.

When they reached the gateway of the senior warden's place, Mrs.
Richie said that she would wait. "I'll stand here in the road; and if
you will make some excuse, and find out--"

"Very well," he said. "I'll come back as quickly as I can, and tell
you he's all right. There isn't a particle of reason for anxiety, but
it's a better sedative for you than bromide. That's the why I'm doing
it," said William candidly. He gave her the lantern, and said he did
not like to leave her. "You won't be frightened? You can see the house
from here, and can call if you want me. I'll have to stay about ten
minutes, or they wouldn't understand my coming in."

She nodded, impatient at his delay, and he slipped into the shadow of
the maples and disappeared. For a minute she could hear the crunch of
his footsteps on the gravel of the driveway. She sat down on the grass
by the roadside, and leaned her head against the big white gate-post.
The lantern burned steadily beside her, casting on the ground a shower
of yellow spots that blurred into a widening circle of light. Except
for the crickets all was still. The cooler air of night brought out
the heavy scents of damp earth and leaves, and over in the deep grass
a late May-apple spilled from its ivory cup the heavy odor of death. A
bob-white fluted in the darkness on the other side of the road.

Her acute apprehension had ceased. William King was so certain, that,
had the reality been less dreadful she would have been ashamed of the
fuss she had made. She wanted only this final assurance that the boy
was at home, safe and sound; then she would think of her own affairs.
She watched the moths fly about the lantern, and when one poor downy
pair of wings touched the hot, domed top and fell fluttering into the
road, she bent forward and looked at it, wondering what she could do
for it. To kill it would be the kindest thing,--to put it out of its
pain. But some obscure connection of ideas made her shudder back from
death, even a moth's death; she lifted the little creature gently, and
laid it in the dewy grass.

Down the Wrights' carriage road she heard a footstep on the gravel; a
step that grew louder and louder, the confident, comforting step of
the kind friend on whom she relied as she had never relied on any
human being.

"What did I tell you?" William called to her, as he loomed out of the
darkness into the circle of light from the lantern.

"He is all right?" she said trembling; "you saw him?"

"I didn't see him, but--"

"Oh," she said blankly.

"I saw those who had, ten minutes before; won't that do?" he teased
her. "I found the Wright family just going to bed--where you ought to
be this minute. I said I had just stopped in to say how-do-you-do.
Samuel at once reproved me, because I hadn't been to evening church."

"And he--Sam? Was he--"

"He was in the house, up-stairs, his mother said. I asked about him
sort of casually, and she said he had just come in and gone up to his
room. His father made some uncomplimentary remarks about him. Samuel
oughtn't to be so hard on him," William said thoughtfully; "he said he
had told Sam that he supposed he might look forward to supporting him
for the rest of his life--'as if he were a criminal or an idiot.'
Imagine a father saying a thing like that!" William lifted his lantern
and turned the wick up. "Now, I'm only hard on him when he is a goose;
but his father--_What was that?_"

William King stood bolt upright, motionless, his lips parted. Mrs.
Richie caught at his arm, and the lantern swinging sharply, scattered
a flying shower of light; they were both rigid, straining their ears,
not breathing. There was no sound except the vague movement of the
leaves overhead, and faintly, from across the meadow--"_Bob-white!
bob-white!_"

"I thought--I heard--" the doctor said in a whisper. Helena, clutching
at his arm, reeled heavily against him.

"Yes. It was. That was what it was."

"No! Impossible!" he stammered. And they stood listening breathlessly;
then, just as the strain began to relax, down through the darkness
from the house behind the trees came a cry:

"Dr. King--"

An instant later the sound of flying steps on the gravel, and a girl's
shrill voice: "Dr. King!"

"Here, Lydia!" William said, running towards the little figure;
"what's the matter!"

Helena, in the shadow of the gate-post, only caught a word:

"Sam--"

And the doctor and the child were swallowed up in the night.

When William King came out of that house of confusion and death, he
found her huddled against the gate-post, haggard, drenched with dew,
waiting for him. He started, with a distressed word, and lifted her in
his arms. "Oh, you ought not to be here; I thought you had gone home
long ago!"

"_Dead?_"

"Yes."

"He--shot--

"Yes. Poor boy; poor, foolish, crazy boy! But it wasn't your fault.
Oh, my poor child!"

She shivered away from him, then without a word turned towards Old
Chester. The doctor walked at her side. It was nearly three, and very
dark. No one saw them as they went through the sleeping streets; at
William's house she stopped, with a silent gesture of dismissal.

"I am going to take you home," he said gently. And a few minutes later
he began to tell her about it. "He was dead when I got there. They
think it was an accident; and it is best they should. I am afraid I'll
have to explain to my wife, because she saw your apprehension. But
nobody else need know. Except--I must tell Dr. Lavendar, of course;
but not until after the funeral. There is no use complicating things.
But other people can just think it was an accident. It was, in one
way. He was insane. Everybody is, who does--that. Poor Samuel! Poor
Mrs. Wright! I could not leave them; but I thought you had gone home,
or I would have come. Mrs. Richie, promise me one thing: promise me
not to feel it was your fault."

She dropped her face in her hands. "Not my fault! ... I killed him."




CHAPTER XXIV


"He was cleaning his father's pistol, and it went off--" the poor,
dazed mother said, over and over. The father said nothing. He sat, his
elbow on his knee, his forehead resting in the palm of his hand.
Sometimes his heavy eyes glanced up, but he did not lift his head. He
had hardly spoken since the accident. Then, he had said to William
King:

"I suppose he undertook to clean my revolver. He always did things at
queer times. I suppose it went off. It had a tricky hammer. It went
off. By accident--not... He hadn't any reason to... He said, only
yesterday, when he got back, that he couldn't stay away from home any
longer. He said he _had_ to come home. So, you see, there isn't any
reason to think... He was cleaning it. And it went off. The hammer
was tricky."

The slow, bewildered words were spoken with his eyes fixed blindly on
the floor. At the sight of his dreadful composure, his wife's loud
weeping died into a frightened whimper. He did not repeat the
explanation. Dr. Lavendar heard it from Mrs. Wright, as she knelt
beside the poor, stony father, patting his hand and mothering him.

"It was an accident, Dr. Lavendar. Sammy took a notion to clean his
father's pistol. And it went off. And oh, he had just come back to us
again. And he was so glad to get home. He went to church yesterday
morning. I didn't have to urge him. He wanted to go. I feel sure he
had begun to think of his Saviour. Yes; and he wanted to go back to
the bank, and write up his ledgers; he was so happy to be among us
again. Oh, Dr, Lavendar, he said to me, 'I just had to come home,
mother, to you and father,' And I kissed him, and I said, 'Yes, my
darling; home is the best place,' And he kissed me, Dr, Lavendar.
Sammy was not one to do that--a big boy, you know. Oh, I am so glad he
_wanted_ to come home. And now the Lord has taken him. Oh, Samuel,
try, try to say: 'Blessed be the name of the Lord!'"

The senior warden stared in silence at her plump hand, shaking and
trembling on his knee. Dr. Lavendar did not urge any word of
resignation. He sat beside the stricken pair, hearing the mother's
pitiful babble, looking at the father's bent gray head, saying what he
could of Sam--his truthfulness, his good nature, his kindness. "I
remember once he spent a whole afternoon making a splint for Danny's
leg. And it was a good splint," said Dr. Lavendar. Alas! how little he
could find to say of the young creature who was a stranger to them
all!

Dr. Lavendar stayed with them until noon. He had been summoned just as
he was sitting down to breakfast, and he had gone instantly, leaving
Mary wringing her hands at the double distress of a dreadful calamity
and Dr. Lavendar's going without his breakfast. When he saw William
King he asked no questions, except:

"Who will tell his grandfather?"

But of course there was only one person to tell Mr. Benjamin Wright,
and Dr. Lavendar knew it. "But you must come with me, William;
Benjamin is very frail."

"Yes;" said William King; "only you've got to have something to eat
first."

And that gave Dr. Lavendar the chance to ask Mrs. Wright for some
breakfast, which made her stop crying, poor soul, for a little while.

As Goliath pulled them slowly up the hill, William told part of his
part of the story. He had dropped in to the Wrights' the night before
to say how-do-you-do. "It was nearly ten. I only stayed a few minutes;
then I went off. I had got as far as the gate, and I was--was fixing
my lantern, and I thought I heard a shot. And I said--'_What's that?_'
And I stood there, sort of holding my breath, you know; I couldn't
believe it was a shot. And then they called. When I got to the house,
it was all over. It was instantaneous. Samuel told me that Sam had
been fooling with his revolver, and--"

"Yes;" said Dr. Lavendar; "that's what Eliza told me."

Both men were silent. Then Dr. Lavendar said "Will it kill Benjamin?"

"I don't know. I don't know;" the doctor said, sighing. "Oh, Dr.
Lavendar, why does the Lord hit the innocent over the guilty's
shoulder? The boy is out of it; but his father and mother and
grandfather, and--and others, they have got to bear it."

"Why, Willy, my boy," said Dr. Lavendar, "that's where the comfort of
it is. It means we're all one--don't you see? If we suffer in the
boy's suffering or wrong-doing, it is because we and he are one in
Christ Jesus."

"Yes, sir," said William respectfully. But he did not understand.

When they reached The Top, it seemed to take them a long time to hitch
Goliath. It was Dr. Lavendar who got himself together first and said
calmly, "Come, William."

The front door was open, and the two bearers of heavy news entered
unannounced. Benjamin Wright was in the dining-room, where the
shutters were bowed to keep out the heat. He had taken off his hat,
and was pottering about among his canaries, scolding Simmons and
swearing at the weather. Dr. Lavendar and William, coming from the
white glare of sunshine, could hardly distinguish him as he shuffled
back and forth among the shadows, except when he crossed the strip of
dazzling green light between the bowed shutters, Dr. Lavendar stopped
on the threshold; William stood a little behind him.

Mr. Wright was declaiming sonorously:

  "--Did you ever see the Devil,
  With his wooden leg and shovel,
  A-scratching up the gravel--"

He paused to stick a cuttlefish between the bars of a cage, and
catching sight of the first figure, instantly began to snarl a
reproach:

"I might have been in my grave for all you know, Edward Lavendar;
except you'd have had to 'give hearty thanks for the good example' of
the deceased. What a humbug the burial service is--hey? Same thing for
an innocent like me, or for a senior warden. Come in. Simmons!
Whiskey"--

He stopped short; William had moved in the shadows. "Why, that's Willy
King," he said; and dropped the cuttlefish. "Something's wrong. Two
black coats at this hour of the day mean something. Well! Out with it!
What's happened?"

"Benjamin," said Dr, Lavendar, coming into the room, "Sam's Sam--"

"Keep Willy King out!" commanded the very old man in a high, peevish
voice. "I'm not going to die of it. He's--killed himself? Well; it's
my fault. I angered him," He took up his hat, clutching the brim with
shaking hands and pulling it fiercely down over his eyes. "Keep Willy
off! I'm not--I'm not--"

Simmons caught him as he lurched back into a chair, and Dr. Lavendar
bent over him, his old face moving with tears.

"It was an accident, Benjamin, either of the body or the soul--it
doesn't matter which."

William King, standing behind the chair that held the forlorn and
quivering heap, ventured gently: "Samuel says that Sam was cleaning
his pistol, and--"

But Dr. Lavendar held up his hand and William was silent.

"Hold your tongue;" said Benjamin Wright. "Lavendar knows I don't like
lies. Yes; my fault. I've done it again. Second time. Second time.
Simmons! Get these--gentlemen some--whiskey."

Simmons, his yellow jaws mumbling with terror, looked at Dr. Lavendar,
who nodded. But even as the old man got himself together, the brain
flagged; William saw the twist come across the mouth, and the eyes
blink and fix.

It was not a very severe shock, and after the first moments of alarm,
the doctor said quietly; "He is not dying."

But he was, of course, perfectly helpless and silenced; his miserable
eyes seemed to watch them, fixedly, as they carried him to his bed,
and did what little could be done; but he could make no demand, and
offer no explanation.

It was not until late in the afternoon that William King had time to
go to the Stuffed Animal House. He had had a gravely absorbing day;
not only because of the Wrights' pitiful demands upon his time, but
because of the necessary explanations and evasions to Old Chester. To
his wife evasions were impossible, he gave her an exact statement of
the facts as he knew them. Martha, listening, and wiping her eyes, was
shocked into fairness and sympathy.

"But, William, she was not to blame!"

"That's what I told her."

"Poor thing!" said Martha; "why, I feel as if I ought to go right up
and comfort her."

"No, no; it isn't necessary," William said. "I'll go, on my way to The
Top."

Mrs. King drew back, coldly, and sympathy wavered into common sense.
"Well, perhaps it's just as well you should. I'm afraid I couldn't
make her feel that she had no responsibility at all,--as you seem to
think. That's one thing about me, I may not be perfect, but I am
sincere; I think she ought to have stopped Sam's love-making months
ago!--Unless perhaps she returned it?" Martha ended, in a tone that
made William redden with silent anger. But he forgot his anger and
everything else when he came into the long parlor at the Stuffed
Animal House, late that afternoon.

"I've thought of you all day," he said, taking Helena's hand and
looking pitifully into her face. It was strangely changed. Something
was stamped into it that had never been there before.... Weeks ago, a
hurricane of anger had uprooted content and vanity and left confusion
behind it. But there was no confusion now; it had cleared into terror.

William found her walking restlessly up and down; she gave him a look,
and then stood quite still, shrinking a little to one side, as if she
expected a blow. Something in that frightened, sidewise attitude made
him hesitate to tell her of Benjamin Wright; she hardly knew the old
gentleman, but it would startle her, the doctor reasoned. And yet,
when very carefully, almost casually, he said that Mr. Wright had had
a slight shock--"his life is not in danger just now," said William,
"but he can't speak;"--she lifted her head and looked at him, drawing
a full breath, as if eased of some burdening thought.

"Will he ever speak?" she said.

"I don't know; I think so. But probably it is the beginning of the
end; poor old man!"

"Poor old man," she repeated mechanically; "poor old man!"

"I haven't told Dr. Lavendar about--last night," William said; "but if
you have no objection I would like to just hint at--at a reason. He
would know how entirely blameless you were."

"Oh, no! please, please, don't!" she said. And William King winced at
his own clumsiness; her reticence made him feel as if he had been
guilty of an impropriety, almost of an indelicacy.

After a pause he said gently, that he hoped she would sit with Mrs.
King and himself at the funeral on Wednesday.

Helena caught her hands together convulsively; "_I_ go? Oh, no, no! I
am not going."

The doctor was greatly distressed. "I know it is hard for you, but I'm
afraid Samuel and his wife will be so hurt if you don't come. They
know the boy was fond of you--you were always so good to him. I don't
like to urge you, because I know it pains you but--"

"Oh, I can't--I can't!"

She turned so white that William had not the heart to say anything
more. But that same kind heart ached so for the father and mother,
that he was grateful to her when he saw her on Wednesday, among the
people gathering at the church. "Just like her unselfishness!" he said
to himself.

All Old Chester, saddened and awed, came to show its sympathy for the
stricken parents, and its pity, if nothing more, for the dead boy. But
Helena, ghastly pale, had no room in her mind for either pity or
sympathy. She heard Mr. Dilworth's subdued voice directing her to a
pew, and a few minutes afterwards found herself sitting between Dr.
and Mrs. King. Martha greeted her with an appropriate sigh; but Mrs.,
Richie did not notice her. There was no sound in the waiting church
except once in a while a long-drawn breath, or the faint rustle of
turning leaves as some one looked for the burial service. The windows
with their little border of stained glass, were tilted half-way open
this hot morning, and sometimes the silence was stirred by the brush
of sparrows in the ivy under the sills. On the worn carpet in the
chancel the sunshine lay in patches of red and blue and purple, that
flickered noiselessly when the wind moved the maple leaves outside; it
was all so quiet that Helena could hear her own half-sobbing breaths.
After a while, the first low note of the organ crept into the
stillness, and as it deepened into a throbbing chord, there was the
grave rustle of a rising congregation. Then from the church door came
the sudden shock of words:

"_I am the Resurrection and the Life, saith the Lord._"

Helena, clutching at the back of the next pew, stood up with the rest.
Suddenly she swayed, as though the earth was moving under her feet....
The step of the bearers came heavily up the aisle. Her eyes fled from
what they carried--("oh, was he so tall?")--and then shuddered back
again to stare.

Martha King touched her arm; "We sit down now."

Helena sat down. Far outside her consciousness words were being said:
"Now is Christ risen--" but she did not hear them; she did not see the
people about her. She only saw, before the chancel, that long black
shape. After a while the doctor's wife touched her again; "Here we
stand up." Mechanically, she rose; her lips were moving in a terrified
whisper, and Martha King, glancing at her sidewise, looked
respectfully away. "Praying," the good woman thought; and softened a
little.

But Helena was far from prayer. As she stared at that black thing
before the chancel, her selfishness uncovered itself before her eyes
and showed its nakedness.

The solid ground of experience was heaving and staggering under her
feet, and in the midst of the elemental tumult, she had her first dim
glimpse of responsibility. It was a blasting glimpse, that sent her
cowering back to assertions of her right to her own happiness.
Thirteen years ago Lloyd had made those assertions, and she had
accepted them and built them into a shelter against the assailing
consciousness that she was an outlaw, pillaging respect and honor from
her community. Until now nothing had ever shaken that shelter. Nor had
its dark walls been pierced by the disturbing light of any heavenly
vision declaring that when personal happiness conflicts with any great
human ideal, the right to claim such happiness is as nothing compared
to the privilege of resigning it. She had not liked the secrecy which
her shelter involved, no refined temperament likes secrecy. But the
breaking of the law, in itself, had given her no particular concern;
behind her excusing platitudes she had always been comfortable enough.
Even that whirlwind of anger at Benjamin Wright's contempt had only
roused her to buttress her shelter with declarations that she was not
harming anybody. But sitting there between William King and his wife,
in the midst of decorously mournful Old Chester, she knew she could
never say that any more; not only because a foolish and ill-balanced
youth had been unable to survive a shattered ideal, but because she
began suddenly and with consternation to understand that the whole
vast fabric of society rested on that same ideal. And she had been
secretly undermining it! Her breath caught, strangling, in her throat.
In the crack of the pistol and the crash of ruined family life she
heard for the first time the dreadful sound of the argument of her
life to other lives; and at that sound the very foundation of those
excuses of her right to happiness, rocked and crumbled and left her
selfishness naked before her eyes.

It was so unbearable, that instantly she sought another shelter:
obedience to the letter of the Law--Marriage. To marry her fellow
outlaw seemed to promise both shelter and stability--for in her
confusion she mistook marriage for morality. At once! Never mind if he
were tired of her; never mind if she must humble what she called her
pride, and plead with him to keep his word; never mind anything--
except this dreadful revelation: that no one of us may do that which,
if done by all, would destroy society. Yes; because she had not
understood that, a boy had taken his own life.... Marriage! That was
all she thought of; then, suddenly, she cowered--the feet of the
bearers again.

"I will be married," she said with dry lips, "oh, I will-I _will_!"
And Martha King, looking at her furtively, thought she prayed.

It was not a prayer, it was only a promise. For with the organic
upheaval into her soul of the primal fact of social responsibility,
had come the knowledge of guilt.

_But the Lord was not in the earthquake._




CHAPTER XXV


Benjamin Wright lay in his great bed, that had four mahogany posts
like four dark obelisks. ... He had not spoken distinctly since the
night of his seizure, though in about a fortnight he began to babble
something which nobody could understand. Simmons said he wanted his
birds, and brought two cages and hung them in the window, where the
roving, unhappy eyes could rest upon them. He mumbled fiercely when he
saw them, and Simmons cried out delightedly: "There now, he's better--
he's swearin' at me!" The first intelligible words he spoke were those
that had last passed his lips: "M-m-my f-f--," and from his melancholy
eyes a meagre tear slid into a wrinkle and was lost.

Dr. Lavendar, sitting beside him, put his old hand over the other old
hand, that lay with puffed fingers motionless on the coverlet. "Yes,
Benjamin, it was your fault, and mine, and Samuel's. We were all
responsible because we did not do our best for the boy. But remember,
his Heavenly Father will do His best."

"M-m-my f--" the stammering tongue began again, but the misery
lessened in the drawn face. Any denial of the fact he tried to state
would have maddened him. But Dr. Lavendar never denied facts; apart
from the question of right and wrong, he used to say it was not worth
while. He accepted old Mr. Wright's responsibility as, meekly, he had
accepted his own, but he saw in it an open door.

And that was why he went that evening to the Wright house. It was a
melancholy house. When their father was at home, the little girls
whispered to each other and slipped away to their rooms, and when they
were alone with their mother, they quivered at the sight of her tears
that seemed to flow and flow and flow. Her talk was all of Sam's
goodness and affection and cleverness. "He read such learned books!
Why, that very last afternoon, when we were all taking naps, he was
reading a big leather-covered book from your father's library, all
about the Nations. And he could make beautiful poetry," she would tell
them, reading over and over with tear-blinded eyes some scraps of
verse she had found among the boy's possessions. But most of all she
talked of Sam's gladness in getting home, and how strange it was he
had taken that notion to clean that dreadful pistol. No wonder Lydia
and her sisters kept to themselves, and wandered, little scared,
flitting creatures, through the silent house, or out into the garden,
yellowing now and gorgeous in the September heats and chills.

Dr. Lavendar came in at tea-time, as he had lately made a point of
doing, and sat down beside Mrs. Wright in Sam's chair.

"Samuel," said he, when supper was over and the little girls had
slipped away; "you must comfort your father. Nobody else can."

The senior warden drew in his breath with a start.

"He blames himself, Samuel."

"Blames himself! What reason has _he_ got to blame himself? It was my
fault."

"Oh, my dear," said the poor mother, "you couldn't tell that he was
going to clean your pistol."

Samuel Wright looked heavily over at Dr. Lavendar.

"Well," said the old minister, "he gave Sam the money to go away. I
suppose that's on his mind, for one thing. He may think something went
wrong, you know."

"Oh," broke in the mother, beginning to cry, "he Was so glad to get
home; he said to me the night he got back, 'Mother, I just had to come
home to you and father; I couldn't stay away any longer.' I'm sure he
couldn't have said anything more loving, could he? And he kissed me.
You know he wasn't one to kiss much. Yes; he couldn't bear to be away
from us. He said so."

"Go and see him, Samuel," urged Dr. Lavendar. "You, too, have lost a
son, so you know now how he has felt for thirty-two years. His was a
loss for which he knows he was to blame. It is a cruel knowledge,
Sam?"

"It is," said the senior warden. "It is."

"Then go and comfort him."

Samuel went. A great experience had wiped the slate so clean of all
the years of multiplications and additions of resentment and
mortification, that the thought of facing his father did not stir his
dull indifference to the whole dreary matter. When Simmons saw him
coming up the garden path, he said under his breath, "Bless the Lawd!"
Then, mindful of hospitality, offered whiskey.

"Certainly not," said Samuel Wright; and the old habit of being
displeased made his voice as pompous as if he cared--one way or the
other. "Can you make him understand that I'm here, Simmons? Of course,
I won't go up-stairs unless he wants to see me."

"He'll want to see you, suh, he'll want to see you," said Simmons.
He's right smart to-day. He kin use his left hand. He dun shuck that
fist at me this mawnin'. Oh, laws, yes, he'll want to see you."

"Go and ask him."

Simmons went, and came back triumphantly. "I tole him. He didn't say
nothin'. So it's all right"

The visitor went ponderously up-stairs. On the first landing he caught
his breath, and stood still.

Directly opposite him, across the window of the upper hall was a
horsehair-covered sofa, with great, shiny, slippery mahogany ends.
Samuel Wright put his hand up to his throat as if he were
smothering.... He used to lie on that sofa on hot afternoons and study
his declensions. It had no springs; he felt the hardness of it in his
bones, now, and the scratch of the horsehair on his cheek. Instantly
words, forgotten for a generation, leaped up:

Stella Stellae Stellae Stellam--

Mechanically his eyes turned to the side wall; an old secretary stood
there, its glass doors curtained within by faded red rep. He had kept
his fishing-tackle in its old cupboard; the book of flies was in a
green box on the second shelf, at the left. Samuel looked at those
curtained doors, and at the shabby case of drawers below them where
the veneer had peeled and blistered under the hot sun of long
afternoons, and the sudden surge of youth into his dry, middle-aged
mind, was suffocating. Something not himself impelled him on up the
half-flight from the landing, each step creaking under his heavy
tread; drew him across the hall, laid his hand on the door of the
secretary.... Yes; there they were: the green pasteboard box, the
flannel book to hold the flies. He put out his hand stealthily and
lifted the book;--rust and moth-eaten rags.

The shock of that crumbling touch and the smell of dust made him gasp-
and instantly he was back again in middle age. He shut the secretary
quietly, and looked around him. On the right side of the hall was a
closed door. _His_ door. The door out of which he had rushed that
windy March night thirty-two years ago. How hot with passion he had
been then! How cold he was now. On the other side of the hall a door
was ajar; behind it was his father. He looked at it with sombre
indifferent eyes; then pushed it open and entered. He saw a little
figure, sunk in the heap of pillows on the big bed; a little shrunken
figure, without a wig, frightened-eyed, and mumbling. Samuel Wright
came forward with the confidence of apathy. As he stood at the foot of
the bed, dully looking down, the thick tongue broke into a whimpering
stammer:

"M-m-my f--"

And at that, something seemed to melt in the poor locked heart of the
son.

_"Father!"_ said Samuel Wright passionately. He stooped and took
the helpless fingers, and held them hard in his own trembling hand.
For a moment he could not speak. Then he said some vague thing about
getting stronger. He did not know what he said; he was sorry, as one
is sorry for a suffering child. The figure in the bed looked at him
with scared eyes. One of the pillows slipped a little, and Samuel
pulled it up, clumsily to be sure, but with the decided touch of pity
and purpose, the touch of the superior. That fixing the pillow behind
the shaking helpless head, swept away the last traces of the quarrel.
He sat down by the gloomy catafalque of a bed, and when Benjamin
Wright began to say again, "M-m-my f--" he stopped him with a gesture.

"No, father; not at all. He would have gone away anyhow, whether you
had given him the money or not. No; it was my fault," the poor man
said, dropping back into his own misery. "I was hard on him. Even that
last night, I spoke harshly to him. Sometimes I think that possibly I
didn't entirely understand him."

He dropped his head in his hand, and stared blankly at the floor. He
did not see the dim flash of humor in the old eyes.




CHAPTER XXVI


The day that Sam Wright was buried Helena had written to Lloyd Pryor.
She must see him at once, she said. He must let her know when he would
come to Old Chester--or she would come to him, if he preferred. "It is
most important," she ended, "_most_ important." She did not say
why; she could not write of this dreadful thing that had happened.
Still less could she put down on paper that sense of guilt, so
alarming in its newness and so bewildering in its complexity. She was
afraid of it, she was even ashamed of it; she and Lloyd had never
talked about--things like that. So she made no explanation. She only
summoned him with a peremptoriness which had been absent from their
relations for many years. His answer, expected and despaired of, came
three weeks later.

It was early in October one rainy Friday afternoon. Helena and David
were in the dining-room. She had helped him with his lessons,--for it
was Dr. Lavendar's rule that Monday's lessons were to be learned on
Friday; and now they had come in here because the old mahogany table
was so large that David could have a fine clutter of gilt-edged
saucers from his paint-box spread all around. He had a dauby tumbler
of water beside him, and two or three _Godey's Lady's Books_
awaiting his eager brush. He was very busy putting gamboge on the
curls of a lady whose petticoats, by a discreet mixture of gamboge and
Prussian blue, were a most beautiful green.

"Don't you think crimson-lake is pretty red for her lips?" Helena
asked, resting her cheek on his thatch of yellow hair.

"No, ma'am," David said briefly; and rubbed on another brushful.
Helena put an eager arm about him and touched his ear with her lips;
David sighed, and moved his head. "No; I wasn't going to," she
reassured him humbly; it was a long time since she had dared to offer
the "forty kisses." It was then that Sarah laid the mail down on the
table; a newspaper and--Lloyd Pryor's letter.

Helena's start and gasp of astonishment were a physical pang. For a
long time afterwards she could not bear the smell of David's water-
colors; gamboge, Chinese white and Prussian blue made her feel almost
faint. She took up the letter and turned it over and over, her pallor
changing into a violent rush of color; then she fled up-stairs to her
own room, tearing the letter open as she ran.

Her eyes blurred as she began to read it, and she had to stop to wipe
away some film of agitation. But as she read, the lines cleared
sharply before her. The beginning, after the "Dear Nelly," was
commonplace enough. He was sorry not to have answered her letter
sooner; he had been frightfully busy; Alice had not been well, and
letter-writing, as she knew, was not his strong point. Besides, he had
really expected to be in Old Chester before this, so that they could
have talked things over. It was surprising how long Frederick had hung
on, poor devil. In regard to the future, of course--here the page
turned. Helena gasped, folding it back with trembling fingers: "Of
course, conditions have changed very much since we first considered
the matter. My daughter's age presents an embarrassment which did not
exist a dozen years ago. Now, if we carried out our first arrangement,
some kind friend would put two and two together, and drop a hint, and
Alice would ask questions. Nevertheless"--again she turned a page--
nevertheless, Lloyd Pryor was prepared to carry out his promise if she
wished to hold him to it. She might think it over, he said, and drop
him a line, and he was, as ever, hers, L. P.

Helena folded the letter, laying the edges straight with slow
exactness.... He would carry out his promise if she held him to it.
She might drop him a line on the subject.... While her dazed mind
repeated his words, she was alertly planning her packing: "Can Sarah
fold my skirts properly?" she thought; but even as she asked herself
the question, she was saying aloud, "Marry him? Never!" She slapped
the letter across her knee. Ah, he knew that. He knew that her pride
would come to his rescue! The tears stung in her eyes, but they did
not fall.... Sarah must begin the next morning; but it would take a
week to close everything up.... Well; if he had ceased to want her,
she did not want him! What a letter she would write him; what
indifference, what assurances that she did not wish to hold him to
that "first arrangement"; what anger, what reproach! Yes; she would
"drop him that line"! Then it came over her that perhaps it would be
more cutting not to write to him at all. She raised her rag of pride
but almost instantly it fell shuddering to the dust--_Sam Wright_....

She sat up in her chair, trembling. Yes; she and David would start on
Monday; she would meet Lloyd in Philadelphia on Tuesday, and be
married that morning. Her trunks could follow her; she would not wait
for the packing. George must do up the furniture in burlap; a railroad
journey across the mountains would injure it very much, unless it was
carefully packed.

She rose hurriedly, and taking her travelling-bag out of the wardrobe,
began to put various small necessities into it. Suddenly she stopped
short in her work, then went over to the mantel-piece, and leaning her
arms upon it looked into the mirror that hung lengthwise above it. The
face that gazed back at her from its powdery depths was thinner; it
was paler: it was--not so young. She looked at it steadily, with
frightened eyes; there were lines on the forehead; the skin was not so
firm and fresh. She spared herself no details of the change, and as
she acknowledged them, one by one, the slow, painful red spread to her
temples. Oh, it was horrible, it was disgusting, this aging of the
flesh! The face in the mirror looked back at her helplessly; it was no
weapon with which to fight Lloyd Pryor's weariness! Yet she must fight
it, somehow. It was intolerable to think that he did not want her; it
was more intolerable to think that she could not match his mood by
declaring that she did not want him. "But that's only because of Sam
Wright," she assured herself, staring miserably at the white face in
the glass; "if it wasn't for that--! But I must get more sleep; I
mustn't let myself look so worn out."

In such cross-currents of feeling, one does not think consecutively.
Desires and motives jumbled together until Helena said to herself
desperately, that she would not try to answer Lloyd's letter for a day
or two. After all, as he had so clearly indicated, there was no hurry;
she would think it over a little longer.

But as she thought, the next day and the next, the wound to her
affection and her vanity grew more unbearable, and her feeling of
responsibility waned. The sense of guilt had been awakened in her by
her recognition of a broken Law; but as the sense of sin was as far
from her consciousness as ever, she was able to argue that if no one
knew she was guilty, no further harm could be done. So why kill what
lingering love there might be in Lloyd's heart by insisting that he
keep his promise? With that worn face of hers, how could she insist!
And suppose she did not? Suppose she gave up that hungry desire to be
like other people, arranged to leave Old Chester--on that point she
had no uncertainty--but did not make any demand upon him? It was
perfectly possible that he would be shamed into keeping his promise.
She said to herself that, at any rate, she would wait a week until she
had calmed down and could write with moderation and good humor.

Little by little the purpose of diplomacy strengthened, and with it a
determination to keep his love--what there was of it--at the price of
that "first arrangement." For, after all, the harm was done; Sam
Wright was dead. She was his murderer, she reminded herself, sullenly,
but nothing like that could ever happen again, so why should she not
take what poor happiness she could get?

Of course this acceptance of the situation veered every day in gusts
of misery and terror; but, on the whole, the desire for peace
prevailed. Yet the week she had allowed herself in which to think it
over, lengthened to ten days before she began to write her letter. She
sat down at her desk late in the afternoon, but by tea-time she had
done nothing more than tear up half a dozen beginnings. After supper
David rattled the backgammon-board significantly.

"You are pretty slow, aren't you?" he asked, as she loitered about her
desk, instead of settling down to the usual business of the evening.

"Don't you think, just to-night, you would rather read a story?" she
pleaded.

"No, ma'am," said David, cheerfully.

So, sighing, she opened the board on her knees. David beat her to a
degree that made him very condescending, and also extremely displeased
by the interruption of a call from William King.

"Nobody is sick," David said politely; "you needn't have come."

"Somebody is sick further up the hill," William excused himself,
smiling.

"Is Mr. Wright worse?" Helena said quickly. She lifted the backgammon-
board on to the table, and whispered a word of manners to David, who
silently stubbed his copper-toed shoe into the carpet.

"No," the doctor said, "he's better, if anything. He managed to ask
Simmons for a poached egg, which made the old fellow cry with joy; and
he swore at me quite distinctly because I did not get in to see him
this morning. I really couldn't manage it, so I went up after tea, and
he was as mad as--as David," said William, slyly. And David, much
confused, kicked vigorously.

"Do you think he will ever be able to talk?" she said.

William would not commit himself. "Perhaps; and perhaps not. I didn't
get anything clear out of him to-night, except--a bad word."

"Damn?" David asked with interest.

William chuckled and then remembered to look proper. But David feeling
that he was being laughed at, hid his face on Helena's shoulder, which
made her lift him on to her knee. There, in the drowsy warmth of the
little autumn fire, and the quiet flow of grown people's meaningless
talk, he began to get sleepy; gradually his head slipped from her
shoulder to her breast, and when she gathered his dangling legs into
her lap, he fell sound asleep.

"It isn't his bedtime yet," she excused herself. She rested her cheek
on the child's head and looked over at the doctor. She wore a dark
crimson silk, the bosom filled with sheer white muslin that was caught
together under her soft chin by a little pearl pin; her lace
undersleeves were pushed back so that William could see the lovely
lines of her white wrists. Her parted hair fell in soft, untidy waves
down over her ears; she was staring absently across David's head into
the fire.

"I wish," William said, "that you would go and call on old Mr. Wright
some time. Take David with you. It would cheer him up." It seemed to
William King, thinking of the forlorn old man in his big four-poster,
that such a vision of maternity and peace would be pleasant to look
upon. "He wouldn't use David's bad word to you, I am sure."

"Wouldn't he?" she said.

For once the doctor's mind was nimble, and he said in quick
expostulation: "Come, come; you mustn't be morbid. You are thinking
about poor Sam and blaming yourself. Why, Mrs. Richie, you are no more
responsible for his folly than I am."

She shook her head. "That day at the funeral, I thought how they used
to bring the murderer into the presence of the man he had killed."

William King was really displeased. "Now, look here, you must stop
this sort of thing! It's not only foolish, but it's dangerous. We can
none of us play with our consciences without danger; they cut both
ways."

Mrs. Richie was silent. The doctor got up and planted himself on the
hearth-rug, his back to the fire, and his hands under his coat tails.

"Let's have it out: How could you help it because that poor boy fell
in love? You couldn't help being yourself--could you? And Sam couldn't
help being sentimental. Your gentleness and goodness were like
something he had never seen before. But you had to stop the
sentimentality, of course; that was just your duty. And I know how
wisely you did it--and kindly. But the boy was always a self-absorbed
dreamer; the mental balance was too delicate; it dipped the wrong way;
his mind went. To feel it was your fault is absolute nonsense. Now
there! I've never been so out of patience with you before," he ended
smiling; "but you deserve it."

"I don't deserve it," she said; "I wish I did."

"When I spoke about goodness," the doctor amended, "I didn't mean to
reflect on his father and mother. Mrs. Wright is one of the best women
in the world. I only meant--" William sat down and looked into the
fire. "Well; just plain goodness isn't necessarily--attractive. A
man--at least a boy like Sam, admires goodness, of course; but he does
sort of hanker after prettiness;" William's eyes dwelt on her bent
head, on the sheer muslin under David's cheek, on the soft incapable
hands that always made him think of white apple-blossoms, clasped
around the child's yielding body;--"Yes; something pretty, and
pleasant, and sweet; that's what a man--I mean a boy, Sam was only a
boy; really wants. And his mother, good as she is, is not,--well; I
don't know how to express it."

Helena looked over at him with a faint smile. "I thought goodness was
the finest thing in the world; I'm sure I used to be told so," she
ended dully.

"Of course, _you_ would feel that," the doctor protested; "and it
is, of course it is! Only, I can understand how a boy might feel. Down
at the Wrights' there was just nothing but plain goodness, oh, very
plain, Mrs. Richie. It was all bread-and-butter. Necessary; I'm the
last person to say that bread-and-butter isn't necessary. But you do
want cake, once in a while; I mean when you are young. Sam couldn't
help liking cake," he ended smiling.

"Cakes and ale," Helena said.

But the connection was not clear to William. "At home, there was just
plain, ugly goodness; then he met you. And he saw goodness, and other
things!"

Helena's fingers opened and closed nervously. "I wish you wouldn't
call me good," she said; "I'm not. Truly I'm not."

William laughed, looking at her with delighted eyes. "Oh, no; you are
a terrible sinner!"

At which she said with sudden, half-sobbing violence, "Oh,
_don't;_ I can't bear it. I am not good."

The doctor sobered. This really was too near the abnormal to be safe;
he must bring her out of it. He must make her realize, not only that
she was not to blame about Sam Wright, but that the only shadow on her
goodness was this same morbid feeling that she was not good. He got up
again and stood with his back to the fire, looking down at her with
good-natured determination.

"Now look here!" he said, "conscience is a good thing; but conscience,
unrestrained by common sense, does a fine work for the devil. That
isn't original, Dr. Lavendar said it; but it's true. I wish Dr.
Lavendar knew of this morbid idea of yours about responsibility--he'd
shake it out of you! Won't you let me tell him?"

"Oh, no! no! Please don't!"

"Well, I won't; but he would tell you that it was wrong not to see
straight in this matter; it's unfair to your--to Providence," William
said. He did not use religious phrases easily, and he stumbled over
"unfair to your Heavenly Father," which was what Dr. Lavendar had said
in some such connection as this: "Recognize your privileges and be
grateful for the help they have been in making you as good as you are.
To deny what goodness you have is not humility, it's only being unfair
to your Heavenly Father." But William could not say a thing like that;
so he blundered on about Providence, while Helena sat, trembling, her
cheek on David's hair.

"You are as good as any mortal of us can be," William declared, "and
better than ninety-nine mortals in a hundred. So there! Why Mrs.
Richie"--he hesitated, and the color mounted slowly to his face; "your
loveliness of character is an inspiration to a plain man like me."

It was intolerable. With a breathless word, she rose, swaying a little
under the burden of the sleeping child; then, moving swiftly across
the room, she laid him on a sofa. David murmured something as she put
him down, but she did not stop to hear it. She came back and stood in
front of William King, gripping her hands together in a passion of
denial.

"Stop. I can't bear it. I can't sit there with David in my arms and
hear you say I am good. It isn't true! I can't bear it--" She stopped
short, and turned away from him, trembling very much.

The doctor, alarmed at this outbreak of hysteria, and frowning with
concern, put out his kind protesting hands to take hers. But she
cringed away from him.

"Don't," she said hoarsely; and then in a whisper: "He is not--my
brother."

William, his hand still outstretched, stared at her, his mouth falling
slowly open.

"I told you," she said, "that I wasn't--good."

_"My God!"_ said William King. He stepped back sharply, then suddenly
sat down, leaning his head on his clenched hand.

Helena, turning slightly, saw him. "I always told you I wasn't," she
cried out angrily; "why would you insist on saying I was?"

He did not seem to notice her, though perhaps he shrank a little. That
movement, even if she only imagined it, was like the touch of flame.
She felt an intolerable dismay. It was more than anger, far more than
terror; it seemed to envelop her whole body with a wave of scarlet. It
was a new, unbearable, burning anguish. It was shame.

She had an impulse to tear it from her, as if it were some tangible
horror, some blazing film, that was covering her flesh. With a cry,
she broke out:

"You don't understand! I am not wicked. Do you hear me? I am not
wicked. You must listen I"

He made no answer.

"I am not wicked--the way you think. My husband killed my baby. I told
you that, long ago. And I could not live with him. I couldn't I Don't
you see? Oh, listen, please! Please listen! And Lloyd loved me, and he
said I would be happy. And I went away. And we thought Frederick would
divorce me, so we could be married. But he didn't. Oh, he didn't _on
purpose_! And we have been waiting for him to die. And he didn't
die--he wouldn't die!" she said with a wail. "But now he is dead,
and--"

And what? Alas, what? She waited a second, and then went on, with
passionate conviction, "And now I am to be married. Yes, you see, I am
not as wicked as you think. I am to be married; you won't think me
wicked then, will you? Not when I am married? I couldn't have you say
those things while I sat and held David. But now I am to be married."
In her excitement she came and stood beside him, but he would not look
at her. Silence tingled between them. Over on the sofa, David stirred
and opened his eyes.

"The child!" William King said; "be careful." He went and lifted David
to his feet. "Go up-stairs, my boy." He did not look at Mrs. Richie,
who bent down and kissed David, mechanically,

"I dreamed," the little boy mumbled, "'at my rabbits had earrings;
an'--"

"Go, dear," she said; and David, drowsily obedient, murmured good-
night. A minute later they heard him climbing up-stairs.

Helena turned dumb eyes towards the silent figure on the hearth-rug,
but he would not look at her. Under his breath he said one incredulous
and tragic word:

"_You?_"

Then he looked at her.

And at his look she hid her face in her bent arm. That new sensation,
that cleansing fire of shame, swept over her again with its
intolerable scorch.

"No! No! I am going to be married; I--"

The front door closed behind him. Helena, alone, crouched, sobbing, on
the floor.

_But the Lord was not in the fire._




CHAPTER XXVII


"Is old Mr. Wright worse?" Martha called downstairs, when the doctor
let himself in at midnight.

"No."

"Well, where on earth have you been?" Mrs. King demanded. She was
leaning over the banisters in her gray flannel dressing-gown, her
candle in its hooded candlestick, throwing a flickering light on her
square, anxious face.

William, locking the front door, made no answer. Martha hesitated, and
then came down-stairs.

"I must say, William, flatly and frankly, that you--" she paused. "You
look tired out, Willy?"

William, fumbling with the guard-chain, was silent.

"Come into the dining-room and I'll get you something to eat," said
his wife.

"I don't want anything to eat."

Martha glanced at him keenly. His face was white and haggard, and
though he looked at her, he did not seem to see her; when she said
again something about food, he made no answer. "Why, William!" she
said in a frightened voice. Then with quick common sense, she put her
alarm behind her. "Come up-stairs, and go to bed. A good night's sleep
will make a new man of you." And in a sort of cheerful silence, she
pushed him along in front of her. She asked no more questions, but
just as he got into bed she brought him a steaming tumbler of whiskey
and water. "I guess you have taken a little cold, my dear," she said.

William looked at her dumbly; then realizing that there was no escape,
drank his whiskey, while Martha, her candle in one capable hand,
waited to make sure that he drained the last drop. When he gave the
glass back to her, she touched his shoulder gently and bade him go to
sleep. As she turned away, he caught that capable hand and held it in
both of his for a moment.

"Martha," he said, "I beg your pardon."

"Oh, well," said Martha, "of course, a doctor often has to be out
late. If you only don't come down with a cold on your lungs, it's all
right."

"I sha'n't come down with a cold on my lungs," said William King.

The letter Helena wrote Lloyd Pryor after she had picked herself up,
sobbing, from the floor, had no diplomacy about it. Things had
happened; she would not go into them now, she said, but things had
happened which made her feel that she must accept his offer to carry
out their original plan. "When I got your letter, last week, I did
hesitate," she wrote, "because I could not help seeing that you did
not feel about it as you used to. But I can't hesitate any longer. I
must ask you--"

Lloyd Pryor read as far as that, and set his teeth. "Lloyd, my
friend," he said aloud, "it appears you have got to pay the piper."

Swearing quietly to himself he tore the letter into many small pieces,
and threw them into the fire. "Well," he said grimly, "I have never
repudiated yet, but I propose to claim my ninety days,--if I can't
squeeze out of it before that!" He sat a long time in his inner
office, thinking the thing over: if it had to be, if the piper was
inexorable, if he could not squeeze out, how should he safeguard
Alice? Of course, a girl of nineteen is bound to resent her father's
second marriage; her annoyance and little tempers Lloyd Pryor could
put up with, if only she need never know the truth. But how should the
truth be covered? They could all three go to Europe for a year. If
there was going to be any gossip--and really the chance of gossip was
rather remote; very few people had known anything about Frederick
Richie or his affairs, and Helena had absolutely no relatives,--but if
they went to Europe for a year, any nine days' wonder would have
subsided before they got back. As for the offensiveness of presenting
Helena to his daughter as a stepmother, Pryor winced, but admitted
with a cold impartiality, that she was not intrinsically
objectionable. It was only the idea which was unpleasant. In fact, if
things were not as they were, she would make an admirable stepmother--
"and she is good-looking still," he thought, with an effort to console
himself, But, of course, if he could squeeze out of it--And so his
answer to Helena's letter was a telegram to say he was coming to Old
Chester.

William King, driving down the hill in the October dusk, had a glimpse
of him as the stage pulled up at the gate of the Stuffed Animal House,
and the doctor's face grew dully red. He had not seen Helena since
that black, illuminating night; he had not seen Dr, Lavendar; he had
scarcely seen his own wife. He devoted himself to his patients, who,
it appeared, lived back among the hills. At any rate, he was away from
home from morning until night. William had many things to face in
those long drives out into the country, but the mean self-
consciousness that he had been fooled was not among them. A larger
matter than mortification held him in its solemn grip. On his way
home, in the chill October twilights, he usually stopped at Mr.
Benjamin Wright's. But he never drew rein at the green gate in the
hedge; as he was passing it the night that Pryor arrived, he had to
turn aside to let the stage draw up. A man clambered out, and in the
dull flash of the stage lanterns, William saw his face.

"Lloyd?" some one said, in a low voice; it was Mrs. Richie, waiting
for him inside the gate. William King's face quivered in the darkness.

"That you, Nelly?" Mr. Pryor said;--"no, no; I'll carry my own bag,
thank you. Did a hamper come down on the morning stage? Good! We'll
have something to eat. I hope you haven't got a sick cook this time.
Well, how are you?"

He kissed her, and put his arm around her; then withdrew it, reminding
himself not to be a fool. Yet she was alluring! If only she would be
sensible, there was no reason why things should not be as pleasant as
ever. If she obliged him to pay the piper, Lloyd Pryor was coldly
aware that things would never be pleasant again.

"So many dreadful things have happened!" she burst out; but checked
herself and asked about his journey; "and--and Alice?"

"Oh, pleasant enough, rather chilly. She's well, thank you." And then
they were at the door, and in the bustle of coming in, and taking off
his coat, and saying "Hullo, David! Where's your sling?" disagreeable
topics were postponed. But in the short twilight before the parlor
fire, and at the supper-table, the easy commonplaces of conversation
tingled with the consciousness of the inevitable reappearance of those
same topics. Once, at the table, he looked at her with a frown.

"What's the matter, Nelly? You look old! Have you been sick?"

"Things have happened," she said with an effort; "I've been worried."

"What things?" he said; but before she could reply, Sarah came in with
hot waffles, and the subject was dropped.

"You need more cinnamon with this sugar," Mr. Pryor said with
annoyance. And Helena, flushing with anxiety, told the woman to add
some cinnamon at once. "Oh, never mind now," he said.--"But you ought
to look out for things like that," he added when Sarah had left the
room. And Helena said quickly, that she would; she was so sorry!

"Dr. Lavendar," David announced, "he won't let you say you don't like
things. He says it ain't polite. But I don't like--"

"Dry up! dry up!" Mr. Pryor said irritably; "Helena, this young man
talks too much."

Helena whispered to David to be quiet. She had already arranged with
him that he was not to come into the parlor after supper, which was an
agreeable surprise to him; "For, you know, I don't like your brother,"
he said, "nor neither does Danny." Helena was too absorbed to
remonstrate; she did, however, remember to tell Mr. Pryor that David
had asked if she was coming up to hear him say his prayers.

"I told him I couldn't to-night; and what do you suppose he said? He
said, 'Does God like ladies better than gentlemen? I do.'"

It made him laugh, as she had hoped it would. "I fancy that is a
reflection upon me," he said. "The young man has never liked me." And
when he had clipped off the end of his cigar and struck a match under
the mantelpiece, he added, "So you hear him say his prayers? I didn't
know you were so religiously inclined."

"I'm not religiously inclined; but, of course, one has to teach a
child to say his prayers."

"Oh, I don't object to religion," Mr. Pryor assured her; "in fact, I
like it--"

"In other people?" she interrupted gayly.

"Well, yes; in other people. At any rate in your charming sex. Alice
is very religious. And I like it very much. In fact, I have a good
deal of feeling about it. I wouldn't do anything to--to shock her, you
know. I really am perfectly sincere about that, Helena."

He was sincere; he looked at her with an anxiety that for once was
quite simple.

"That's why I wrote you as I did about the future. I am greatly
embarrassed about Alice."

She caught her breath at the suddenness of his reference, but she knew
him well enough not to be much surprised. If a disagreeable topic was
to be discussed, the sooner it was taken up and disposed of, the
better. That was Lloyd's way.

"Of course," he went on, "if Alice knew of our--ah, acquaintance, it
would shock her. It would shock her very much." He paused. "Alice's
great charm is her absolute innocence," he added thoughtfully.

That comment was like a blow in the face. Helena caught her breath
with the shock of it. But she could not stop to analyze its peculiar
terror. "Alice needn't know," she began--but he made an impatient
gesture.

"If we married, it would certainly come out."

He was standing with his back to the fire, one hand in his pocket, the
other holding his cigar; he blew three smoke rings, and smiled. "Will
you let me off, Nelly?"

"I know you don't love me," she broke out passionately--

"Oh, now, Helena, not a scene, please! My dear, I love you as much as
ever. You are a charming woman, and I greatly value your friendship.
But I can love you just as much, not to say more, if you are here in
your own house in Old Chester, instead of being in my house in
Philadelphia. Why, it would be like sitting on a volcano!"

"I cannot stay in Old Chester any longer," she said; "dreadful things
have happened, and--"

"What things? You said that before. Do explain these mysterious
allusions."

"Mr., Wright's son," she began--and then her voice broke. But she told
him as well as she could.

Mr. Pryor gave a frowning whistle. "Shocking! Poor Nelly!"

"You see, I must go away," she said, wringing her hands; "I can't bear
it!"

"But, my dear," he protested, "it wasn't your fault. You were not to
blame because a rash boy--" Then a thought struck him, "but how the
devil did he discover--?"

When Helena explained that she supposed old Mr. Wright had told his
grandson, Pryor's anger broke out: "He knew? How did _he_ find out?"

Helena shook her head; she had never understood that, she said.
Lloyd's anger always confused her, and when he demanded furiously why
she had not told him about the old fool--"he'll blazon the whole
thing!"--she protested, quivering, that Mr. Wright would not do that.

"I meant to tell you, but I--I forgot it. And anyway, I knew he
wouldn't; he said he wouldn't; besides, he had a stroke when he heard
about Sam, and he hasn't spoken since. And Dr. King--" she winced--
"Dr. King says it's the beginning of the end."

"Thank God!" Lloyd said profoundly relieved. He stood frowning for a
minute, then shrugged his shoulders, "Well, of course, that settles
it; you can't stay here; there's no question about that. But there's a
very pleasant little town, on the other side of Mercer, and--"

"It isn't just the going away," she broke in; "it's being different
from people. I never thought about it before; I never really minded.
But now, I can't help seeing that if you are--different, I mean just
to please yourself, you know, it--it hurts other people, somehow. Oh,
I can't explain," she said, incoherently, "and I don't want to trouble
you, or talk about right and wrong, and religion, and--that sort of
thing--"

"No; please don't," he said, dryly.

"But you promised--you promised!"

"I promised," he said, "and I have a prejudice in favor of keeping my
word. Religion, as you call it, has nothing to do with it. I will
marry you; I told you so when I wrote to you. But I felt that if I put
the matter before you, and told you how difficult the situation was,
and appealed to your generosity, for Alice's sake--"

"I appeal to _your_ generosity!--for the sake of other people. It
isn't only Alice who would be shocked, if it was found out. Lloyd, I
don't insist on living with you. Keep the marriage a secret, if you
want to; only, I must, I must be married!" She got up and came and
stood beside him, laying her hands on his arm, and lifting her
trembling face to his; he frowned, and shrugged her hands away.

"Go and sit down, Nelly. Don't get excited. I told you that I had a
prejudice in favor of keeping my word."

She drew back and sat down on the sofa, cowering a little in the
corner. "Do you suppose I have no pride?" she breathed. "Do you
suppose it is easy for me to--_urge?_" He saw her fingers tremble as,
with elaborate self-control, she pleated the crimson silk of her skirt
in little folds across her knee. For a moment they were both silent.

"Secrecy wouldn't do," he said, "To get married, and not tell, is only
whipping Satan round the stump as far as Alice is concerned.
Ultimately it would make double explanations. The marriage would come
out, somehow, and then the very natural question would be: 'Why the
devil were they married secretly?' No; you can't keep those things
hidden. And as for Alice, if she didn't think anything else, she'd
think I had fibbed to her. And that would nearly kill her; she has a
perfect mania about truth! You see, it leads up to the same thing:
Alice's discovery that I have been--like most men. No; if it's got to
be, it shall be open and aboveboard."

She gasped with relief; his look of cold annoyance meant, just for the
moment, nothing at all.

I shall tell her that I have met a lady with whom I was in love a long
time ago--"

"_Was_ in love? Oh, Lloyd!" she broke in with a cry of pain; at which
intrusion of sentimentality Lloyd Pryor said with ferocity: "What's
that got to do with it? I'm going to pay the piper! I'll tell Alice
that or any other damned thing I please. I'll tell her I'm going to be
married in two or three months; I shall go through the form of an
engagement. Alice won't like it, of course. No girl likes to have a
stepmother; but I shall depend on you, Helena, to make the thing go as
well as possible. That's all I have to say."

He set his teeth and turning his back on her, threw his half-smoked
cigar into the fire, Helena, cowering on the sofa, murmured something
of gratitude, Mr. Pryor did not take the trouble to listen.

"Well," he said, "the next thing is to get you away from this place.
We've got to stage the drama carefully, I can tell you."

"I can go at once."

"Well; you had better go to New York;--what will you do with your
youngster?" he interrupted himself. "Leave him on Dr. Lavendar's
doorstep, I suppose?"

"My youngster?" she repeated. "Do you mean David?"

Mr. Pryor nodded absently, he was not interested in David.

"Why," Helena said breathlessly, "you didn't suppose I was going to
leave David?"

At which, in spite of his preoccupation, Pryor laughed outright. "My
dear Helena, even you can hardly be so foolish as to suppose that you
could take David with you?"

She sat looking at him, blankly, "Not take David! Why, you surely
didn't think that I would give up David?"

"My dear," said Lloyd Pryor, "you will either give him up, or you will
give me up."

"And you don't care which!" she burst out passionately.

He gave her a deadly look. "I do care which."

And at that she blenched but clung doggedly to his promise. "You must
marry me!"

"There is no _must_ about it. I will. I have told you so. But _I_ did
not suppose it was necessary to make your giving up David a condition.
Not that I mean to turn the young man out, I'm sure. Only, I decline
to take him in. But, good Heavens, Helena," he added, in perfectly
genuine astonishment, "it isn't possible that you seriously
contemplated keeping him? Will you please consider the effect upon the
domestic circle of a very natural reference on his part, to your
_brother?_ You might as well take your servants along with you--or
your Old Chester doctor! Really, my dear Nelly," he ended banteringly,
"I should have supposed that even you would have had more sense."

Helena grew slowly very white. She felt as if caught in a trap; and
yet the amused surprise in Lloyd Pryor's face was honest enough, and
perfectly friendly. "I cannot leave David here," she said faintly. And
as terror and despair and dumb determination began to look out of her
eyes, the man beside her grew gayly sympathetic.

"I perfectly understand how you feel, He is a nice little chap. But,
of course, you see it would be impossible?"

"I can't give him up."

"I wouldn't," he said amiably. "You can go away from Old Chester--of
course you must do that--and take him with you. And I will come and
see you as often as I can."

He breathed more freely than he had for weeks; more freely than since
the receipt of that brief despatch:--"F. is dead," and the initials H.
R. So far from having used a sling and a smooth stone from the brook,
the boy had been a veritable armor-bearer to the giant! Well; poor
Nelly! From her point of view, it was of course a great
disappointment. He hated to have her unhappy; he hated to see
suffering; he wished they could get through this confounded interview.
His sidewise, uneasy glance at her tense figure, betrayed his
discomfort at the sight of pain. What a pity she had aged so, and that
her hands had grown so thin. But she had her old charm yet; certainly
she was still an exquisite creature in some ways--and she had not
grown too fat. He had been afraid once that she would get fat. How
white her neck was; it was like swan's-down where the lace fell open
in the front of her dress. For a moment he forgot his prudent
resolutions; he put his arm around her and bent his head to touch her
throat with his lips.

But she pushed him away with a flaming look. "David saves you, does
he? Well; he will save me!"

Without another word she left him, as she had left him once before,
alone in the long parlor with the faintly snapping fire, and the
darkness pressing against the uncurtained windows. This time he did
not follow her to plead outside her closed door. There was a moment's
hesitation, then he shook his head, and took a fresh cigar.

"No," he said, "it's better this way."




CHAPTER XXVIII


"If it was _me_ that was doin' it," said Sarah, "I'd send for the
doctor."

"Well, but," Maggie protested, "she might be mad."

"If it was me, I'd let her be mad."

"Well, then, why don't you?" Maggie retorted.

"Send for him?" Sarah said airily impersonal. "Oh, it's none of my
business."

"Did you even it to her?" Maggie asked in a worried way.

"I did. I says, 'You're sick, Mrs. Richie,' I says.--She looked like
she was dead--'Won't I tell George to run down and ask Dr. King to
come up?' I says." "An" what did she say?" Maggie asked absently. She
knew what Mrs. Richie had said, because this was the fourth time she
and Sarah had gone over it.

"'No,' she says, 'I don't want the doctor. There's nothing the
matter.' And she like death! An' I says, 'Will you see Mr. Pryor,
ma'am, before he goes?' And she says, 'No,' she says; 'tell Mr. Pryor
that I ain't feelin' very well.' An' I closed the shutters again, an'
come down-stairs. But if it was me, I'd send for Dr. King. If she
ain't well enough to see her own brother--and him just as kind!"--
Sarah put her hand into the bosom of her dress for a dollar bill--
"Look at that! And you had one, too, though he's hardly ever set eyes
on you, If she ain't well enough to see him, she's pretty sick."

"Well," said Maggie, angrily, "I guess I earned my dollar as much as
you. Where would his dinner be without me? That's always the way. The
cook ain't seen, so she gets left out."

"You ain't got left out this time, anyhow. He's a kind man; I've
always said so. And she said she wasn't well enough to see him! Well;
if it was me's I'd send for Dr. King."

So the two women wrangled, each fearful of responsibility; until at
last, after Maggie had twice gone up-stairs and listened at that
silent door, they made up their minds.

"David," Maggie said, "you go and wait at the gate, and when the
butcher's cart comes along, you tell him you want on. An' you go down
street, an' tell him you want off at Dr. King's. An' you ask Dr. King
to come right along up here. Tell him Mrs. Richie's real sick."

"If it was me, I'd let him wait till he goes to school," Sarah began
to hesitate; "she'll be mad."

But Maggie had started in and meant to see the matter through: "Let
her be mad!"

"Well, it's not my doin'," Sarah said with a fine carelessness, and
crept up-stairs to listen again at Mrs. Richie's door. "Seemed like as
if she was sort of--_cryin_'!" she told Maggie in an awed whisper
when she came down.

David brought his message to the doctor's belated breakfast table.
William had been up nearly all night with a very sick patient, and
Martha had been careful not to wake him in the morning. He pushed his
plate back, as David repeated Maggie's words, and looked blankly at
the table-cloth.

"She's never really got over the shock about Sam Wright's Sam, has
she?" Martha said. "Sometimes I almost think she was--" Mrs. King's
expressive pantomime of eyebrows and lips meant "in love with him"--
words not to be spoken before a child.

"Nonsense!" said William King curtly. "No; I don't want any more
breakfast, thank you, my dear. I'll go and hitch up."

Martha followed him to the back door. "William, maybe she's lonely.
I'm very tired, but perhaps I'd better go along with you, and cheer
her up?" "Oh, no," he called back over his shoulder; "it isn't
necessary." Then he added hastily, "but it's very kind in you, Martha,
to think of it."

"I'd just as lieves," she insisted flushing with pleasure.

He tried to get his thoughts in order as he and Jinny climbed the
hill. He knew what, sooner or later, he must say to Mrs. Richie, and
he thought with relief, that if she were really ill, he could not say
it that day. But the sight of David had brought his duty home to him.
He had thought about it for days, and tried to see some way of escape;
but every way was blocked by tradition or religion. Once he had said
stumblingly to Dr. Lavendar, that it was wonderful how little harm
came to a child from bad surroundings, and held his breath for the
reply.

"An innocent child in a bad home," said Dr. Lavendar cheerfully,
"always makes me think of a water-lily growing out of the mud."

"Yes!" said the doctor, "the mud doesn't hurt it."

"Not the lily; but unfortunately, Willy, my boy, every child isn't a
lily. I wouldn't want to plant one in the mud to see how it would
grow, would you?"

And William admitted that he would not.

After that he even put the matter to his wife "Martha, you're a
sensible woman, I'd like to ask you about a case." "Oh, well," said
Martha simpering, "I don't pretend to any very great wisdom, but I do
know something about sickness."

"This isn't sickness; it's about a child. Do you think a child is
susceptible to the influence of an older person who is not of the
highest character? If, for instance, the mother was--not good, do you
suppose a child would be injured?"

"Not good?" said Martha, horrified. "Oh, William' Somebody in Upper
Chester, I suppose?"

"But she is a devoted mother; you couldn't be more conscientious
yourself. So do you think her conduct could do any harm to a child?"

"Oh, Willy! A child in the care of a bad woman? Shocking!"

"Not bad--not bad--" he said faintly.

"Most shocking! Of course a child would be susceptible to such
influences."

William drew arabesques on the table-cloth with his fork, "Well, I
don't know--" he began,

"_I_ know!" said Martha, and began to lay down the law. For if
Martha prided herself upon anything, besides her common sense, it was
the correctness of her views upon the training of children. But she
stopped long enough to say, "William, please! the table-cloth." And
William put his fork down.

He thought of his wife's words very often in the next few days. He
thought of them when David stood rattling the knob of the dining-room
door, and saying "Maggie says please come and see Mrs. Richie." He
thought of them as Jinny pulled him slowly up the hill.

Sarah was lying in wait for him at the green gate. Maggie had sent for
him, she said; and having put the responsibility where it belonged,
she gave him what information she could. Mrs. Richie wasn't well
enough to see her brother before he went away on the stage; she
wouldn't eat any breakfast, and she looked like she was dead. And when
she (Sarah) had given her a note from Mr. Pryor, she read it and right
afterwards kind of fainted away like. An' when she come to, she
(Sarah) had said, "Don't you want the doctor?" An' Mrs. Richie said
"No." "But Maggie was scared, Dr. King; and she just sent David for
you."

"Quite right," said William King, "Let Mrs. Richie know I am here."

He followed the woman to Helena's door, and heard the smothered
dissenting murmur within; but before Sarah, evidently cowed, could
give him Mrs. Richie's message that she was much obliged, but did not
wish--William entered the room. She was lying with her face hidden in
her pillows; one soft braid fell across her shoulder, then sagged down
and lay along the sheet, crumpled and wrinkled with a restless night.
That braid, with its tendrils of little loose locks, was a curious
appeal. She did not turn as he sat down beside her, and he had to lean
over to touch her wrist with his quiet fingers.

"I did not send for you," she said in a muffled voice; "there is
nothing the matter."

"You haven't had any breakfast," said William King. "Sarah, bring Mrs.
Richie some coffee."

"I don't want--"

"You must have something to eat."

Helena drew a long, quivering breath; "I wish you would go away. There
is nothing the matter with me."

"I can't go until you feel better, Mrs. Richie."

She was silent. Then she turned a little, gathering up the two long
braids so that they fell on each side of her neck and down across her
breast; their soft darkness made the pallor of her face more marked.
She was so evidently exhausted that when Sarah brought the coffee, the
doctor slipped his hand under her shoulders and lifted her while she
drank it.

"Don't try to talk; I want you to sleep."

"Sleep! I can't sleep."

"You will," he assured her.

She lay back on her pillows, and for the first time she looked at him.
"Dr. King, he has quarrelled with me."

William flinched, as though some wound had been touched; then he said,
"Don't talk of it now."

She turned her face sharply away from him, burying it in her pillow.

"Mrs. Richie, you must try to eat something. See, Maggie has sent you
some very nice toast."

"I won't eat. I wish you would go."

There was silence for a moment. Then, suddenly, she cried out, "Well?
What are you going to do, all of you? What did Dr. Lavendar say?"

"Dr. Lavendar doesn't know anything about it."

"I don't know why I told you! I was out of my head, I think. And now
you despise me."

"I don't despise you."

She laughed. "Of course you do."

"Mrs. Richie, I'm too weak myself to despise anybody."

"I wish you would go away," she repeated.

"I will; but you must have a sedative first."

"David's bromide?" she said sarcastically, "A broken finger, or a
broken--well, anything. Dr. King--you won't tell Dr. Lavendar?"

"Tell? What kind of a man do you suppose I am! I wish you would tell
him yourself, though."

"Tell him myself?" she gave him another swift look that faltered as
her eyes met his. "You are crazy! He would take David away."

"Mrs. Richie," said William miserably, "you know you can't keep
David."

"Not keep David!"

She sat up in bed, supported on each side by her shaking hands; she
was like a wild creature at bay, she looked him full in the face. "Do
you think I would give him up, just to please you, or Dr. Lavendar,
when I quarrelled with Lloyd, to keep him? Lloyd wouldn't agree that I
should have him. Yes; if it hadn't been for David, you wouldn't have
the right to despise me! Why, he's all I've got in the world."

William King was silent.

"You think I am wicked! But what harm could I possibly do him?" Her
supporting arms shook so that the doctor laid a gentle hand on her
shoulder,

"Lie down," he said, and she fell back among her pillows.

"Who could do more for him than I can? Who could love him so much? He
has everything!" she said faintly.

"Please take this medicine," William interposed, and his calm,
impersonal voice was like a blow, "Oh, you despise me! But if you
knew--"

"I don't despise you," he said again. And added, "I almost wish I
did."

But this she did not hear. She was saying desperately, "I will never
give David up. I wish I hadn't told you; but I will never give him
up!"

"I am going now," the doctor said. "But sometime I am afraid I must
tell you how I feel about David. But I'll go now. I want you to try to
sleep."

When he had gone, she took from under her pillow that letter which had
made her "faint like." It was brief, but conclusive:

"The matter of the future has seemed to settle itself--I think wisely;
and I most earnestly hope, happily, for you. The other proposition
would have meant certain unhappiness all round. Keep your boy; I am
sure you will find him a comfort. I am afraid you are a little too
excited to want to see me again immediately. But as soon as you decide
where you will go, let me know, and let me be of any service in
finding a house, etc. Then, when you are settled and feel equal to a
visit, I'll appear. I should certainly be very sorry to let any little
difference of opinion about this boy interfere with our friendship.
L.P."

Sitting up in bed, she wrote in lead-pencil, two lines;

"I will never see you again. I never want to hear your name again."

She did not even sign her name.




CHAPTER XXIX


To have David go away for the long-anticipated trip with Dr.
Lavendar, was a relief to Helena struggling up from a week of profound
prostration. Most of the time she had been in bed, only getting up to
sit with David at breakfast and supper, to take what comfort she might
in the little boy's joyous but friendly unconcern. He was full of
importance in the prospect of his journey; there was to be one night
on a railroad-car, which in itself was a serious experience; another
in an hotel; hotel! David glowed at the word. In Philadelphia they
were to see the sights in the morning; in the afternoon, to be sure,
Dr. Lavendar had warned him that it would be necessary to sit still
while some one talked. However, it is never necessary to listen. After
the talking, they would go and see the ships at the wharves, and
Liberty Bell. Then--David's heart sank; bed loomed before him, But it
would be an hotel bed;--there was some comfort in that! Besides, it is
never necessary to sleep. The next day going home on the cars they
would see the Horseshoe Curve; the very words made his throat swell
with excitement.

"Did the locomotive engine ever drop off of it?" he asked Helena.

"No, dear," she said languidly, but with a smile. She always had a
smile for David.

After the Horseshoe Curve there would be a night at Mercer. Mercer, of
course, was less exciting than Philadelphia; still, it was
"travelling," and could be boasted of at recess. But as David thought
of Mercer, he had a bleak revelation. For weeks his mind had been on
this journey; beyond it, his thought did not go. Now, there rushed
upon him the staggering knowledge that after the night in Mercer,
_life would still go on!_ Yes, he would be at home; in Miss Rose
Knight's school-room; at supper with Mrs. Richie. It is a heavy
moment, this first consciousness that nothing lasts. It made David
feel sick; he put his spoon down and looked at Mrs. Richie. "I shall
be back," he said blankly.

And at that her eyes filled. "Yes, darling! Won't that be nice!"

And yet his absence for the next few days would be a relief to her.
She could think the whole thing out, she said to herself. She had not
been well enough to think clearly since Lloyd had gone. To adjust her
mind to the bitter finality meant swift oscillations of hate and the
habit of affection--the spirit warring with the flesh. She would never
see him again;--she would send for him! she despised him;--what should
she do without him? Yet she never wavered about David. She had made
her choice. William King's visit had not shaken her decision for an
instant; it had only frightened her horribly. How should she defend
herself? She meant to think it all out, undisturbed by the sweet
interruptions of David's presence. And yet she knew she should miss
him every minute of his absence. Miss him? If Dr. King had known what
even three days without David would mean to her, he would not have
wasted his breath in suggesting that she should give him up! Yet the
possibility of such a thing had the allurement of terror; she played
with the thought, as a child, wincing, presses a thorn into its flesh
to see how long it can bear the smart. Suppose, instead of this three
days' trip with Dr. Lavendar, David was going away to stay? The mere
question made her catch him in her arms as if to assure herself he was
hers.

The day before he started, Helena was full of maternal preoccupations.
The travelling-bag that she had begun to pack for herself--for so
different a journey!--had to be emptied of its feminine possessions,
and David's little belongings stowed in their place. David himself had
views about this packing; he kept bringing one thing or another--his
rubber boots, a cocoon, a large lump of slag honeycombed with air-
holes; would she please put them into the bag?

"Why, but darling, you will be back again on Saturday," she consoled
him, as each treasure was rejected.--("Suppose he was _not_ coming
back! How should I feel?")

He was to spend the night before the journey at the Rectory, and after
supper Helena went down the hill with him. "I wish I hadn't consented
to it," she said to herself; "do you like to go and leave me, David?"
she pleaded.

And David jumping along at her side, said joyously, "Yes, ma'am."

At the Rectory he pushed the door open and bounded in ahead of her,
"I'm here!"

Dr. Lavendar put down his _Spirit of Missions_, and looked over his
spectacles. "You don't say so! And you're here, too, Mrs. Richie?
Come in!"

Helena, hesitating in the hall, said she had only come to leave David.
But Dr. Lavendar would not listen to that.

"Sit down! Sit down!" he commanded genially.

David, entirely at home, squatted at once upon the rug beside Danny.
"Dr. Lavendar," she said, "you'll bring him back to me on Saturday?"

"Unless I steal him for myself," said Dr. Lavendar, twinkling at
David, who twinkled back, cozily understanding.

Helena stooped over him and kissed him; then took one of his reluctant
hands from its clasp about his knees and held it, patting it, and once
furtively kissing it, "Good-by, David. Saturday you'll be at home
again."

The child's face fell. His sigh was not personal; it only meant the
temporariness of all human happiness. Staring into the fire in sudden
melancholy, he said, "'By." But the next minute he sparkled into
excited joy, and jumped up to hang about her neck and whisper that in
Philadelphia he was going to buy a false-face for a present for Dr.
Lavendar; "or else a jew's-harp. He'll give it to me afterwards; and I
think I want a jew's-harp the most," he explained.

"David," Helena said in a whisper, putting her cheek down against his,
"Oh, David, won't you please, give me--'forty kisses'? I'm so--
lonely."

David drew back and looked hard into her face that quivered in spite
of the smile she had summoned to meet his eyes. It was a long look,
for a child; then suddenly, he put both arms around her neck in a
breathless squeeze. "One--two--three--four--" he began.

William King, coming in for his evening smoke, saw that quick embrace;
his face moved with pain, and he stepped back into the hall with some
word of excuse about his coat. When he returned, she was standing up,
hurrying to get away. "Saturday," she repeated to Dr. Lavendar;
"Saturday, surely?"

"Why," the old man said smiling, "you make me feel like a thief. Yes;
you shall have him Saturday night. Willy, my boy, do you think Mrs.
Richie ought to go up the hill alone?"

"Oh, it will be bright moonlight in a few minutes," she protested
nervously, not looking at the doctor.

"I will walk home with Mrs. Richie," William said.

"No! oh, no; please don't!" The dismay in her voice was unmistakable.

Dr. Lavendar thrust out a perplexed lower lip. "If she'd rather just
go by herself, Willy, there are no highwaymen in Old Chester, and--"

But William King interrupted him gently. "I wish to speak to Mrs.
Richie." And Dr. Lavendar held his tongue.

"I am sorry to bother you," William said, as he held the gate open for
her; "but I felt I must speak to you."

Helena made no reply. All the way down the street, almost to the foot
of the hill, Old Chester's evening stillness was unbroken, except for
the rustle of fallen leaves under their feet. Suddenly the great disk
of the hunter's moon lifted slowly up behind the hills, and the night
splintered like a dark crystal; sheets of light spread sharply in the
open road, gulfs of shadow deepened under trees and beside walls. It
was as abrupt as sound. William King broke into hurried words as
though he had been challenged: "I knew you didn't want me to walk home
with you, but indeed you ought not to go up the hill alone. Please
take my arm; the flagging is so uneven here."

"No, thank you."

"Mrs. Richie, please don't feel that I am not your friend, just
because--Indeed, I think I am more your friend than I ever was. You
will believe that, won't you?"

"Oh, I suppose so; that is the way saints always talk to sinners."

"I am far enough from being a saint," William King said with an
awkward effort to laugh; "but--"

"But I am a sinner?" she interrupted.

"Oh, Mrs. Richie, don't let us talk this way! I have nothing but pity,
and--and friendship. The last thing I mean to do, is to set myself as
a judge of your actions; God knows I have no right to judge anybody!
But this matter of David, that's what I wanted to speak to you about.
My responsibility," he stopped, and drew in his breath. "Don't you
see, my responsibility--"

Helena did not speak; she was marshalling all her forces to fight for
her child. How should she begin? But he did not wait for her to begin.

"I would rather lose my right hand than pain you. I've gone all over
it, a hundred times. I've tried to see some way out. But I can't. The
only way is for you to give him up. It isn't right for you to have
him! Mrs. Richie, I say this, and it is hard and cruel, and yet I
never felt more"--William King stopped short--"friendly," he ended
brokenly.

He was walking at a pace she found hard to follow. "I can't go quite
so fast," she said faintly, and instantly he came to a dead stop.

"Dr. King, I want to explain to you--"

She lifted her face, all white and quivering in the moonlight, but
instead of explanations, she broke out: "Oh, if you take him away from
me, I shall die! I don't care very much about living anyhow. But I
can't live without David. Please, Dr. King; oh, please; I will be
good! I will be good," she repeated like a child, and stood there
crying, and clinging to his arm. All her reasons and excuses and
pleadings had dropped out of her mind. "Don't take him away from me; I
will be good!" she said.

William King, with those trembling hands on his arm, looked down at
her and trembled too. Then roughly, he pushed her hands away. "Come
on. We mustn't stand here. Don't you suppose I feel this as much as
you do? I love children, and I know what it means to you to let David
go. But more than that, I--have a regard for you, and it pains me
inexpressibly to do anything that pains you. You can't understand how
terrible this is to me, and I can't tell you. I mustn't tell you. But
never mind, it's true. It isn't right, no, it isn't right! that a
woman who--you know what I mean. And even if, after all, you should
marry him, what sort of a man is he to have charge of a little boy
like David? He has deceived us, and lied to us; he is a loose liver,
a--"

"Wait," she panted; "I am not going to marry him. I thought you
understood that."

He drew away from her with a horrified gesture. "And you would keep an
innocent child--"

"No! No! I've broken with him--on account of David!"

"Broken with him!" said William King; he caught her by the wrist, and
stared at her. Then with a breathless word that she could not hear, he
dropped her hand and turned his face away.

Again, in their preoccupation, they stood still; this time in a great
bank of shadow by the wall of the graveyard half-way up the hill.

"So you won't take him from me?" she said; "I will leave Old Chester.
You need never see me again."

"Good God!" said William King, "do you think that is what I want?"

She tried to see his face, but he had turned his back on her so that
she stood behind him. Her hands were clasping and unclasping and her
voice fluttering in her throat. "You won't take him?"

"Mrs. Richie," he said harshly, "do you love that man still?"

But before she could answer, he put the question aside. "No! Don't
tell me. I've no right to ask. I--don't want to know. I've no right to
know. It's--it's nothing to me, of course." He moved as he spoke out
into the moonlight, and began to climb the pebbly road; she was a step
or two behind him. When he spoke again his voice was indifferent to
the point of contempt. "This side is smoother; come over here. I am
glad you are not going to marry Mr. Pryor. He is not fit for you to
marry."

"Not fit for--_me!_" she breathed.

"And I am glad you have broken with him. But that has no bearing upon
your keeping David. A child is the most precious thing in the world;
he must be trained, and--and all that. Whether you marry this man or
not makes no difference about David. If you have lived--as you have
lived--you ought not to have him. But I started the whole thing. I
made Dr. Lavendar give him to you. He didn't want to, somehow; I don't
know why. So don't you see? I _can't_ leave him in your care. Surely
you see that? I am responsible. Responsible not only to David, but to
Dr. Lavendar."

"If Dr. Lavendar is willing to let me have him, I don't see why you
need to feel so about it. What harm could I do him? Oh, how cruel you
are--how cruel you are!"

"Would Dr. Lavendar let you have him, if--he knew?"

"But that's over; that's finished," she insisted. "oh, I tell you,
it's over!"

The doctor's silence was like a whip.

"Oh, I know; you think that he was here last week. But there has to be
a beginning of everything--that was the beginning. I told him I would
not give David up to marry him; and we quarrelled. And--it's over."

"I can't go into that," the doctor said. "That's not my business.
David is my business. Mrs. Richie, I want you quietly, without any
explanation, to give the boy back to Dr, Lavendar. If you don't, I
shall have no choice. I shall have to tell him."

"But you sai